Lawmakers yesterday clashed over Parliament’s commitment to devolution. Makueni Senator Mutuna Kilonzo accused the National Assembly of frustrating devolution by opposing budget increases for counties. Eldama Ravine MP Moses Lessonet said both Houses had been supportive in ensuring counties got adequate funds, a claim Mutulaopposed. “We allocate adequate funds although sometimes we disagree with the Commission on Revenue Allocation’s proposals,” Lessonet told delegates at the 5th Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega yesterday. The National Assembly, through its Budget and Appropriations Committee, plays an important role in deciding the funds to be allocated to counties every year. Lessonet, a member of the committee, said they have ensured the counties got improved allocations since the advent of devolution in 2013. “The allocation has increased to Sh372 billion in the next financial year from the Sh261 billion they got in 2013,” Lessonet said. He spoke on behalf of Majority leader Aden Duale, whom he represented during a plenary discussion. Mutula disputed Lessonet’s claims. “This forum requires us to be open so as to speak the truth. We have never agreed with the National Assembly on the funds counties should get,” Mutula said. “Convincing the National Assembly to approve higher allocations for counties has been like extracting a tooth.” The senators said he has participated in three Division of Revenue Bill negotiations between senators and MPs. “We have often failed to agree,” Mutula said. He said agitated MPs had often walked out of meeting to stall further negotiations. “It has not been easy. There has never been a cordial relationship between the Senate and NationalAssem bly on the division of revenue. Maybe we are also going to have a handshake soon,” Mutula said.The senator said CRA’s formula on budget allocation has often been disregarded. “It only exist in paper work,” he said. The Senate Minority whip downplayed the four per cent budget allocation increment for counties in the 2018-19 financial year, saying it does not make sense either “financially or legally.” Counties have been allocated Sh314 billion for the 2018-2019 financial year. They got Sh302 billion in 2017-18 year. “Senate is not going to accept to be a conveyor belt on county budgets,” Mutula said. He demanded that a proper and lasting formula for allocating county funds be developed. In the 2018-2019 allocation, Nairobi will receive the lion’s share of Sh15.7 billion. Kilifi got the second highest allocation of Sh10.8 billion. Other counties with highest allocations include Turkana (Sh10.7 billion), Kakamega (Sh10.3 billion), Nakuru (Sh9.4 billion), Kiambu (Sh9.3 billion), Bungoma (Sh8.9 billion), Kitui (Sh8.7 billion), Wajir (Sh8.4 billion) and Machakos (Sh8.3 billion).