It is true there is no permanent enemy in politics, or so it seems going by the photos of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga with Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru shared widely in the media. The duo’s warm handshake at the devolution conference in Kakamega has left many wondering at the apparent warmth between the two. They have been engaging in a vicious battle over the National Youth Service scandal. Now many are waiting to see if Waiguru is going to withdraw cases she filed against Raila as a step of cementing their handshake. It seems there is power of forgiveness in the handshake. ***** A Kenya Dairy Board driver in the upper Eastern region is said to be a thorn in the flesh of area dairy farmers. Recently, farmers threatened to hold a demonstration against him. He is accused of harassing farmers and demanding bribes. The boss was interdicted but has not been shaken. Dairy farmers and milk vendors are still lamenting that the notorious driver confiscates milk and gives it to AP officers for protection. ***** Still on the devolution conference, a governor Mt Kenya governor became the talk of Kakamega town. According to a mole, the county boss who is fond of publicity attempted to undermine host county chief Wycliffe Oparanya by mounting a billboard at a point that had already been reserved. It is said the governor was forced to remove it. The point leading to the conference venue was reserved for Oparanya to welcome delegates. ***** A first-term Rift Valley governor has become the butt of jokes on social media for poor sense of dress. The charming governor known to dress smartly has recently attended public functions in ill-fitting, sometimes oversized, clothes. This has left many wondering whether it is the stylist or the governor that has changed. Social media users questioned whether the governor has joined a religious sect famous for long dresses. Some suggested lynching of the tailor. It has been days of sartorial barbs against the governor, who does not seem to mind about 'stones' hurled at him. A photo of the governor captured addressing a crowd was shared alongside that of another governor just to compare who knows how to clad. ***** Betting companies in the country should not celebrate just yet. Some MPs were overheard saying even if the amendment to lower taxes goes through Parliament next week, they will still fight to free Kenya from gambling. One even said he was in the process of drafting a motion to abolish all gambling activity or tax it heavily.