The new parking fees within the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport are exploitative, an NGO has said. The board of trustees of the Nairobi Foundation yesterday moved to court to block the implementation of the new charges which began on Sunday. The foundation said the increased charges will inconvenience travellers. "The increment of parking fees for various categories of motor vehicles has occasioned unprecedented increase in cab fares. It has also led to an increase in the prices of imported goods which will in turn lead to an increase in the prices of consumer goods,” suit papers read. The new increased parking fee was to take effect on April 15. The board of trustees of ann NGO calling itself Nairobi foundation which has moved to court says that the decision to increase parking fee is exploitative and will inconvenience travelers. For those who have invested in transport business who do export and import of goods this means they will incur heavy costs which in turn will affect their profit margin. This, they said, will compromise their social and economic rights. "The increment of parking fees for various categories of motor vehicles has occasioned unprecedented increase in cab fares. It has also led to an increase in the prices of imported goods which will in turn lead to an increase in the prices of consumer goods,” suit papers read. The NGO also faulted the move, saying it lacked public participation. Under the new charges, motorists pay Sh100 for a 20-minute stay at the airport. They are charged Sh250 for between 20-40 minutes and Sh350 for staying up to an hour. Also complained off is the lack of public participation even though the decision has a direct impact on them. The court was told that if Kenya Airports Authority is allowed to act in such a capricious manner even when it has abdicated its duty to manage a convenient and uninterrupted flow of traffic in and out of JKIA it will amount to violation of rule of law. Under the new parking fee those picking and dropping travelers at the airport, will part with Sh100 to stay at JKIA for twenty minutes, Sh250 between 20 minutes and 40 minutes. If one stays between 40 minutes and one hour he or she will part with Sh350. And in the event one takes one hour to two, one will be required to pay Sh500. Parking would now cost Sh100 within 30 minutes, Sh150 between for 30 minutes and an hour, and Sh200 for between one hour and two hours. Those wishing to park for more than 24 hours, will pay Sh1, 000. The move is aimed at checking on idleness and it would cost Sh1, 000 to have a car unclamped. Those listed as respondents in the case include Kenya Airports Authority Parking Services Limited, Kenya Airport Authority, CS transport, CS Finance and the Attorney-General.  Click here for the latest political news