Members of a parliamentary committee yesterday gave clearest indication that the House will not give in to pressure from commercial banks to scrap the interest caps on loans. Speaking during a meeting with Central Bank of Kenya governor Patrick Njoroge at Parliament Buildings, the members of the committee on Finance and Trade said CBK and the National Treasury were under pressure from the commercial banks, International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to review the law. Committee chairman Joseph Limo kicked off the storm saying CBK was not committed to creating a good environment for the implementation of law that was signed into law by President Uhuru Kenyatta in August 2016. “The feeling is that you failed to create a good environment for the implementation of the law. You have been promising commercial banks that the law will be reviewed. Are you working hand in hand with these banks?,” Limo posed. Kiambu Town legislator Jude Jomo who sponsored the Bill in the last Parliament questioned why CBK was appearing to collude with the commercial banks saying the law was unanimously passed by the MPs to deal with how banks were taking advantage of borrowers. “The law should be implemented. The banks had become cartels increasing rates as they wish now they are sponsoring media reports so as to frustrate the implementation of the law,” Jomo said. In his response, Njoroge denied any collusion with either the local commercial banks or the World Bank or IMF saying the proposal to review the law is informed by the data available showing that the rates are impacting negatively on the economy. “We are implementing the law, we have operationalized it . We were very vocal about the caps . This was not the most direct or sustainable way to address the concerns on high rates,” he told the committee. He added: “However we are on record saying we will look at the data to collaborate. It is not our opinion but the data available.” He said since he took over the leadership of the CBK, he has worked with his team to monitor the pricing of the loans assuring the committee that he will not allow rogue banks to fleece the borrowers. He noted that self-regulations by the commercial banks do not work. “We are now supervising loan pricing. CBK cannot be on the same side with the commercial banks-we are the regulator. CBK has not been captured by the banks, we work in the interest of Wanjiku,” he said. When asked about the status of Eurobond 2018, Njoroge told the committee that CKB was involved in all aspects of borrowing saying the amount raised $2 billion (Sh 200B) have all been transferred from the dollar account at City Bank, New York to a Shilling account at CBK. “On March 12 we transferred the entire amount. All the funds have already been received and they are where they should be in a consolidated account,” he said. He warned that the debt is getting out of hand calling on the government to devise other ways of financing projects. “There is headroom but it is narrowing. Yes it is a concern but we need to find other ways of financing the needs like looking for ways of none debt creating way of financing,” he said. Njoroge also told the committee that CBK has already issued a warning to members of the public on cryptocurrency adding that a notice was made to the public indicating that Bitcoin is not a legal tender and there is no protection incase the platform fails or closes shop. “The actions of CBK are consistent with those taken by other regulators globally, most of whom have taken a cautious approach towards crypto-currencies,” he said.