Residents of Maraigushu village in Naivasha are trying to come to terms with the death of the seven people who drowned on Sunday. Five of those who died have been identified. The vehicle carrying the nine was swept off by floods on Maraigushu-Githabai Road. The bodies of two women are yet to be identified. The car ferrying the group was on Sunday morning swept off. Two people managed to escape. Residents of the village located a few kilometers from the scene of the accident buried five people two months ago. They also died in a road accident. Read : Six people perish as floods wreak havoc across the country Survivor Paul Kariuki narrated how he managed to escape from the car that was fast filling up with the water. The group were on their way to collect a pump from Munyaka when their vehicle was swept away. The vehicle was pushed into a culvert. Kariuki said, “The door would not open and I had to use the window to get out of the car that was fast filling with water.” He tried desperately to get help from the residents, but his cries at 2am went unanswered. Naivasha MP Jane Kihara visited the families and termed the incident a major tragedy. Kihara said for years, the area has never received such heavy rains and urged motorists to be cautious. “We are planning a joint burial so that we can give them a decent sendoff,” she said. Burial committee chairman Peter Kamau said they are still in shock. Two of those killed were cousins who accompanied the group. “The poor family cannot afford to meet all the expenses and we hope the government will chip in,” he said. Residents say the scene where the vehicle was swept away is cursed as bodies of people murdered in other areas are dumped there. Also read : Heavy rains wreak havoc in Turkana, business at standstill This comes as families in Moi Ndabi, Naivasha, are terrified after another fault line opened up in the area a week ago, cutting off roads and causing some farms to sink. The government urged residents near the 2km-long fault line to move to safer grounds. This comes as heavy rains continue to pound the area. The huge and deep fissure, which was first noticed on Sunday, is similar to the one that cut off a section of the Mai Mahiu-Narok road. MCA Kamanu Gathariki said the new fault line has affected homes and farms between Kipkonyo Primary School and Tangi Tatu village. Click here for the latest political news