Denmark on Friday reaffirmed its commitment to supporting the Kenyan governance and justice sector to achieve necessary reforms as part of efforts to strengthen the global war on corruption. Danish Ambassador Mette Knudsen said this during a courtesy call on Attorney General Kihara Kariuki. He said governance and justice systems under the GJLOS will help in the achievement of the Big Four Agenda. “We have seen an increase in foreign investors in the country, an indication of the confidence that the fight against corruption is moving in the right direction and the multi-agency approach adopted by the Kenyan government can only be commended and strengthened,” Knudsen said. Kariuki welcomed the assistance and the cooperation between Kenya and Denmark. He lauded efforts by the multi-agency set up to tackle graft. It has led to an increase in investor confidence in the government, he said. “The adoption of a national process in the fight against corruption has led to significant transformation in service delivery. There is an increased need to continue civic education, as members of the public remain the drivers of this fight,” the AG said. He said the war also helps to identify governance problems. The Governance, Justice, Law and Order Sector creates an enabling environment for economic, social and political development. Critical areas within the GJLOS that require strengthening include emerging crimes such as international organ organised crime that includes money laundering, cybercrimes and terrorism. The sector also needs to enhance its capacity in the use of technology in its electoral processes and security, while addressing legal frontiers revolving around the discovery of natural resources. There is also need to enforce witness protection and legal aid programmes.  TEAM EFFORT The GJLOS focusses security and coordination of national government, prosecution services, witness protection and human rights. Other areas are legal advice to government agencies and administration of justice, promotion of integrity and the fight against corruption, The sector comprises ministries and agencies, including the Interior ministry, Office of the Attorney General and the Department of Justice, and the Judiciary. Other agencies are the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Office of the DPP, the Registrar of Political Parties, the Witness Protection Agency, the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, the IEBC, the National Police Service Commission, the National Gender and Equality Commission and the IPOA. The GJLOS facilitates the development of policies and legislation for exploitation, exploration and export of energy resources and provides accountability in the use of the resources allocated to infrastructure development In the health sector, GJLOS facilitates the development of a legal framework to enable the protection and attainment of social rights related to workers’ health and rights.