The implementation of the Scrap Metal Act, which had been delayed for two years, will finally begin this week, Industrialisation PS Betty Maina has said. The law was enacted in 2015. Maina told the National Assembly Implementation committee that the Ministry will gazette the establishment of the Scrap Metal Council. “No scrap metal dealer has a licence to operate. The council will issue new licenses after thorough inspection of their premises,"  she told the committee chaired by Narok North MP Motalel ole Kenta at Parliament buildings on Tuesday. "We expect the process to be fast-tracked." Read: Implement Scrap Metal Act to end illegal exports, government told Maina said the delay in implementing the law caused confusion in the industry but that the council will guide enforcement agencies on how to regulate the business. “The gazettment of council members, who will include key stakeholders in the industry, will be done this Friday, formally kicking off the process,” she said. She added that the ministry and the Kenya Revenue Authority have put in place stringent measures in the movement of metal to the far East countries of China and South Korea. Stakeholders who faced the committee in March said that lack of control in the sector had resulted led to environmental degradation and the loss of jobs and money. Karanja Njoroge, of the Environmental Interaction Organisation, said that when Parliament passed the bill, stakeholders thought it would unscrupulous dealers and operators in the industry would be dealt with. He noted: "Appropriate measures and mechanisms for regulating the industry - to ensure long term economic growth while protecting public health and high levels of environmental stewardship - are far from being achieved." Michael Wanjala, a representative of battery manufacturers, said lack of a proper laws meant they could not access lead - the raw material used to manufacture batteries. “The lack of raw materials due to illegal exports has resulted in huge losses of revenue and jobs. It is high time the law is implemented for sanity to prevail," said the Regional Recycling Coordinator fo the Association of Battery Manufacturers. Geche Karanja, who represented the Kenya Alliance Residents Association, noted vandalism has crippled sectors including transport and electricity as signs and rails are stolen, and transformers vandalised Click here for the latest political news