Heavy rains forced President Uhuru Kenyatta to cancel his planned trip to open the 5th Devolution conference in Kakamega yesterday officially. There were anxious moments when the programme got underway around 10.30am after the national anthem from the police band without the President. His chair had been reserved, and hundreds of presidential security officers mobilised to the venue in line with the presidential protocol. But Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru broke the news at 11.45am that the President would join the conference via a video link. Related : 15 key points from Uhuru's speech at devolution conference Delegates were disappointed and dumbfounded, without much detail from Waiguru, who went on to read her speech. The Presidential Strategic Communications Unit confirmed the Head of State’s no-show. “@PresidentKE @UKenyatta will address delegates at the 5th Devolution Conference being hosted in Kakamega County via a Live Televised link from @StateHouseKenya,” PSCU said in a tweet. Sources said the President’s flight schedule was thrown into disarray due to bad weather. Heavy rains hit Nairobi as Kakamega experienced cold with calm skies and no rain. When he showed up to speak at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru apologised to delegates but did not explain why he was unable to attend. “Accept my apologies for failing to attend the devolution conference because of unavoidable circumstances,” he said. Uhuru moved on to market his Big Four agenda by announcing a Sh50 billion grant to counties in five years to support devolution. He said the money will be performance-based and will be available for county governments. It is part of the national government’s devolution and urban support programme. Uhuru addressed the 5th Devolution Conference at Kakamega High School via video link. He said the conditional allocation demonstrates his government’s commitment to devolution. The President asked governors to lead from the front in the fight against corruption, which he said has denied Kenyans services at the national and county levels. “This is an issue with leadership, not politics. Corruption has no clan, tribe or religion. We must deal with it. Those guilty must carry their cross and not hide in cocoons of tribal or clan politics,” Uhuru said. The grant will go towards capacity building and support for county staff. “These are conditional grants, and just like us, you must strive to perform to highest standards,” he said. In the clearest indication that his last term in office will be driven with zero-tolerance to corruption, Uhuru said his administration with deal ruthless with corrupt elements. Also read: Uhuru unveils Sh50b programmes to boost service delivery in counties “There is no room for public servants who can do any other thing other than service delivery. People will be sacked because there are honest Kenyans ready to take up their positions,” he warned. The President called for close working relationships between the national and county governments to drive his Big Four agenda, which he said will change lives. Click here for the latest political