The Nyandarua assembly wants to petition the Senate to demand that 70 per cent of all forest products from the county be retained in the area to benefit residents. Speaker Wahome Ndegwa on Tuesday said despite Nyandarua having the highest percentage of forest cover in Kenya, residents do not enjoy the benefits. “Most of us were born and raised here. We have always seen lorries transporting logs and other forest products to Nakuru and Nairobi. All we are left to contend with are bad roads, destroyed environment, and nothing to meet medical, education and other expenses,” he said Ndegwa said residents plant trees and protect forests, but when the trees mature they don’t benefit from them. “This is our natural resource and we are demanding that those who have been harvesting and transporting trees to Nairobi and elsewhere must stop. We have no apology to make to anyone,” he said Ndegwa said Nyandarua will not only demand to know whom the government sells the trees to, but will also demand its rightful share. Even the First and Second World Wars, he said, were fought over of resources. “There is no way we are going to allow our people to continue living a life of indignity in this era, while others rob our resources as we watch,” he said two million trees in one year Ndegwa spoke at Ol bolossat Forest station in Gathanji, Ol Joro Orok, when he launched a drive to plant 10 million trees in five years. Residents planted more than 15,000 trees on 10.5 acres. Tree planting is one of Governor Francis Kimemia’s flagship projects. Kimemia said he will ensure two million trees are planted in the county. “In five years, I will be a happy governor having achieved this goal. My government will allocate funds to ensure the annual target of tree planting is achieved,” he said Kimemia said his administration is collaborating with the Kenya Forest Research Institute and will on April 30 sign an MoU to form youth groups in Nyandarua. These groups will produce four million seedlings annually. The seedlings will be distributed for planting in government, community and even private forests. This, he said, will improve the environment and ensure clean air for all. Kimemia said the Kenya Forest Service gives contracts to “outsiders who come to harvest the trees without notice and also damage our roads as heavy trucks ferry the timber”. Nyandarua people, the governor said, are only subcontracted if lucky. Kimemia said Nyandarua sawmillers should benefit from trees produced in the county. ban on logging The people of Nyandarua take care of and protect trees and actively participate in putting off forest fires whenever they happen,he said. “You cannot take care of trees for 40 years, just for other people to come and harvest them,” Kimemia said. He said the national government ban on logging should not be extended as it may impoverish people who rely on tree products to earn a living. County commissioner Boaz Cherotich urged residents to respect the logging ban and to report those found smuggling timber at night. “If you find any vehicles, including GK lorries, transporting timber, report them to us. The total ban on logging is still on,” he said.   