Three sectoral nominees were yesterday put on the spot after past deeds in their previous posts came back to haunt them. The officers, who are among the 22 individuals Sonko nominated as chief officers last week, were vetted by various sectoral committees of the county assembly from Tuesday. The vetting ends today. Former Lands Chief Officer Stephen Mwangi, who Sonko nominated to the same position, was shocked when a member of the public produced a video clip showing a piece of land that he (Mwangi) allegedly grabbed. The man, who provided the video clip in camera, claimed that Mwangi colluded with two others and grabbed his land in Kariobangi. He however did not say when this happened. “Mr. Chairman this is an active case and I am not the only one being accused. So it would be good if we wait for the investigations to be concluded,” Mwangi told the Lands committee chaired by Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu. Kiragu said the committee would consider the case while writing its report on the suitability of the nominee. Acting county secretary Leboo Morintat, who was nominated as chief officer in charge of Public Service Management, a position he held during Kidero's time, was questioned why the the sector had failed to address the issue of ghost workers, ballooning wage bill and 'Kanjo culture' – brutal and corrupt. Leboo, who appeared before the Labour committee, said they have already cleaned the county's human resource database and payroll. He however admitted that wage bill standing at Sh1.2 billion per month, was still a challenge and pledged to work with stakeholders including the county assembly to come up with ways on how to address the matter. "If I attain this position, I will work closely with the committee for better service deliver," he said. Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital medical superintendent Musa Mohamed, who was nominated as Medical Services chief officer was put to task over reports of poor management of the facility. Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Mwangi, in whose constituency the facility is located, petitioned the committee to reject the nominee. He claimed that he has received numerous complaints from the residents about negligence, lack of drugs and long waiting hours for patients at the facility. But Mohamed, who was vetted by Health Committee chaired by Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere, defended himself saying the hospital under him, serves more than 1,300 patients daily. “Deputy President himself and Health Cabinet Secretary Cecily Kariuki have visited the facility. The governor has made several impromptu visits and they have been satisfied with way the hospital is run. I have urged the MP to visit us so that we can get to here his concerns,” he said. He promised to ensure all city residents enroll with NHIF and vowed to improved the conditions of the city hospitals. Others vetted were Mahat Jimale (public health), Mude Ibrahim (Youth and Sports), Pauline Nyambura (Urban Renewal), Mary Maina (Finance), Winfred Gathangu (Economic Planning) and Lucia Mulwa (Education) were also vetted. Trade chief officer nominee Fredrick Nzioki told the Trade committee that he would register all hawkers within Nairobi if approved. Justus Kathenge, Urban Planning chief officer nominee, told Planning committee that he devolve staff to sub-counties for efficient service delivery. City Hall on March 30 sent home Finance Executive Danvas Makori and Chief Officer Ekaya Alumasi. The two were placed under investigations for allegedly working with former governor Evans Kidero. A KPMG report released in March revealed that Nairobi County could not account for more than Sh21 billion during former Governor Evans Kidero's tenure. It is believed that Makori's constant communication with Kidero and his team would jeopardise the investigations.