Close to 70 per cent of Tana River county has been destroyed by floods and only a third of the land is accessible by road. A visit to the expansive county which is the size of the former Central, Nyanza and Western provinces combined – reveals what is becoming Kenya's biggest humanitarian crisis. The crisis has been triggered by floods that have swallowed at least 32 villages and destroyed more than 30,000 homesteads, according to humanitarian agencies. The majority of the county's 240,075 population is seeking help in 16 IDP camps run by the Red Cross. At least 10 people have been killed by the floods. Red Cross yesterday said thousands of villagers and about 700 head of cattle are stranded on the Matabore Island on the Lamu-Tana River counties border after Tana River burst its banks. “We are planning to send a team to Matabore to rescue the livestock and people stuck on the island. We are also doing something about the Chalaluma village situation. We are coordinating with the county commissioner's office,” Lamu Red Cross coordinator Kauthar Alwy said. Villagers led by their spokesperson Bocha Guracho said well-wishers have been using the only available dhow to rescue one animal at a time. “There are over 500 cows and over 200 goats and sheep. They are all surrounded by water and we want to reach them. There are also a few fishermen and pastoralists who are stuck. There is only one boat here and it belongs to a tourist which they have been using,” said Guracho. Tana Delta assistant county commissioner Paul Wanyonyi yesterday confirmed more than 10,500 displaced people have nowhere to go because the existing camps are full. “We are appealing to humanitarian agencies to intervene and assist those still marooned in villages and those in camps with food and nonfood items,” he said. A team led by Tana River Deputy Governor Salim Batuyu on Sunday also encountered hordes of hippos and there are fears they might attack the stranded villagers. The county is named after the Tana, Kenya's longest river, which splits into an explansive delta inside the county before emptying into the Indian Ocean. Resident Mohamed Gobole Ali said hundreds of villagers from Bandi village are putting up makeshift camps along Lamu-Malindi road. More than 1,000 residents of Chalaluma village in Witu, Lamu West, also appealed for humanitarian aid after their village was surrounded by floods resulting from the bursting of Rivers Tana and Nyongoro banks. A delegation of leaders from Tana River county led by Devolution Chief Administration Secretary Hussein Dado and three MPs said the situation is desperate. Dado, the immediate former governor, said police helicopters would start distributing food to areas completely cut off from supplies, especially in Bura, where roads have been destroyed. “The little farms that had food crops have been washed away, while livestock are suffering the same fate. We are planning to come up with a resilience programme where floods or drought will no longer be an emergency,” he said. Bura MP Ali Wario said the flood situation is overwhelming as 70 per cent of his constituency cannot be accessed by road. Garsen MP Ali Hashaka said there are more than 10 schools that have submerged or cut off and pupils will not access schools next week. Kenya Red Cross statistics indicate Tana River had 16 IDP camps with Tana Delta leading with 12 camps. The county government is currently confined at Hola town and can only access the rest of the land by boat.