ODM chairman John Mbadi has admitted that nepotism in the party has hampered the nomination of qualified MCAs He said most of the legislators are given the opportunities on grounds of party loyalty or closeness with party officials. The Suba South MP said the selection does not consider the MCA's academic credentials, hence their poor performance in debates. Mbadi, noting that the criteria will be reviewed, said this is the reason a number of county assemblies have failed to perform their legislative role. "Some MCAs were nominated because of personal relationship with party officials but they don’t know their roles," he said.  He spoke on Friday during a fund-raiser at Sango Sango secondary school in Ndhiwa constituency. The chairman said the lack of qualification is the reason some MCAs cannot contribute to motions tabled in the various assemblies, hence find it easy to engage in fistfights than reason with others.  "A number of MCAs who get nomination are not qualified hence have failed to deliver in the county assemblies," Mbadi said.  He said ODM will review its Constitution and policies so that the party strictly nominates qualified persons. Mbadi said the current policy has led to the some of the challenges that county assemblies face adding that the party has realised the loopholes. Mbadi gave example with Homa Bay county assembly where nominated MCAs hardly contribute in discussions at the assembly plenary. Homa Bay has 20 nominated and 40 elected MCAs. Mbadi was accompanied by Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino, MCAs Eliphalet Osuri (Ruma Kaksingri), Juma Awuor (Homa Bay East), and Joan Ogada (Kojwach). Osuri and Awuor agreed with Mbadi. "Some of the MCAs engage in wrangles for defence instead of discussing issues affecting residents," Osuri said. Awuor said they have failed to pass bills that aim to assist Homa Bay residents because of infighting. "The situation in the county assembly has reached a level where members with dissenting opinions cannot express their view." Click here for the latest political news    