Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri has asked leaders from the three arms of government to stop hurling words at each other. Calling for truce, Kiunjuri said the Judiciary, Executive, and Parliament should stick to their roles "which they understand better". "This noise of the judiciary is doing this or that should stop. Let us not go that direction please," he said in Nyeri on Sunday. The minister was at the New Life Church where he helped raise funds towards the church's development. "For those in the Judiciary, let Matiang’i do his work. The Chief Justice should also be left do his duties. This applies to Parliament." The CS said there was no point of having a political truce among politicians only for the Judiciary and the Executive to turn against each other. The row between the two arms came to the fore when Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and other top security officials were accused of defying court orders. This followed the case of Miguna Miguna's deportation. Matiang'i has denied claims he or the other officials were served the said orders. The CS, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa were fined Sh 200,000 each for contempt of court. They have appealed the decision. Read: Matiang'i escalates war with Judiciary, says Miguna orders not served He said President Uhuru Kenyatta is committed on ensuring he fulfils the pledges he made to Kenyans during campaigns for the 2017 general election. Kiunjuri also called on leaders to tone down on politics and focus on their work. He lauded NASA leader Raila Odinga for joining hands with Uhuru on the journey of bringing lasting peace and unity of Kenyans. "You have witnessed that since the handshake between Raila and Uhuru, politics in the country has toned down," he said. He said the move was healthy for the country as Kenya is being watched by other countries not only in Africa but also all over the world. On projects, Kiunjuri said the government will construct more water pans in Kieni. At least 60 water pans have been put up from which residents draw water for irrigation. Read: Why Miguna Miguna was deported a second time Click here for the latest political news