Kikuyu elders under the Kiama Kia Maa council have now thrown its weight behind calls by Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba for polygamous marriages. The elders,who were holding its National Delegates Conference at Heritage Resort in Naivasha, said for many years men have neglected their children born out of wedlock noting that they should be taken care of. Kiama Kia Ma National Chairman Kigochi Waimiri said the country to needed to start taking parenting with the seriousness it deserves. He said the move by Wamuchomba was a step in the right direction if the country was to get rid of street children. The woman rep had earlier told able men from the Kikuyu community to consider marrying many wives in order to bring a solution to alcoholism and street families, saying the upbringing of children in the absence of their fathers has was the major cause. Waimiri said the numerous street urchins especially in Nairobi had become a thorn in the flesh for many noting that they too had fathers who were supposed to take care of them. “I now call upon men from the Gikuyu community and who are able to cater for the needs of more than one wife to marry and in this we shall also increase on our population,” he said. The elder also said Central Kenya region had seen an upsurge in illegal alcoholic drinks adding that they were committed to ensuring the levels are reduced completely. He said the elders had resolved to work with the provincial administration and agencies involved in the fight against alcohol abuse in the region. “This is a very serious issue and we need to work together as stakeholders to ensure that the menace that is threatening a generation is wiped out,” Wamiri said. The elders vowed to unite after splinter groups emerged saying they will move as one unit and preach peace across the country. While reading a joint communiqué, Kiama Kia Ma National Chairman Kigochi Waimiri said the country to needed to start taking parenting with the seriousness it deserves. Waimiri said the move by Wamuchomba was a step in the right direction if the country was to get rid of street children in key streets in the nation. He said the numerous street urchins especially in Nairobi had become a thorn in the flesh of many noting that they too had fathers who were supposed to take care of them. “I now call upon men from the Gikuyu community and who are able to cater for the needs of more than one wife to marry and in this we shall also increase on our population,” he said. At the same time Waimiri said Central Kenya region had seen an upsurge in illegal alcoholic drinks adding that they were committed to ensuring the levels are reduced completely. He said the elders had resolved to work with the provincial administration and agencies involved in the fight against alcohol abuse in the region. “This is a very serious issue and we need to work together as stakeholders to ensure that the menace that is threatening a generation is wiped out,” he said. The group’s secretary general Colonel (Rtd) Joseph King’ori the group executive will take up its rightful position at the national council of Kenya elders and the Gikuyu Council of elders without delay. “The Association will pursue different approaches to support and facilitate implementation of the four pillars of development christened the Big Four,” he said. Others who attended the council meeting included President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cousin Ngengi Muigai who now assumes the role of the Kiama Kia Ma Patron.