First Community Bank defied a tough macroeconomic environment to post a Sh151.8 million profit compared to a loss of Sh55.73 million the previous year. The Shariah-compliant lender attributed the significant growth to increased focus on micro, SMEs and enterprises that currently comprise close to 60 per cent of the bank’s client base, leading to an increase in the lender’s loan book during the review period. “We decided that we want to focus on the SME business segment because we believe that they are the lifeblood of the economy,” First Community Bank chief executive officer Fazal Saib said. Sharia compliant lender, unlike conventional banks, offer financial deals in place of loans. For First Community Bank, deals declined 11.06 per cent to Sh9.73 billion. This saw income generated from these deals decline 21.24 per cent to Sh996.33 million. “For sharia-compliant banks, the making of money on money is prohibited, which is where trade finance comes in,” he said. ”The underlying factor is to have an asset to sell.” The bank reported 16.04 per cent growth in total assets to Sh17.36 billion at the close of 2017 compared to Sh14.96 billion in 2016. Customer deposits increased 16.67 per cent to Sh14.77 billion and 8.86 per cent increase in non-operating income to Sh483.95 million. “This was the highest deposit book the bank has reached in 10 years, signaling the community showing trust in the bank,” he said. Saib said the bank was now moving to digitise systems to enhance the banking experience for customers. Islamic finance and banking products emphasise the sharing of profits between the bank and customer, safekeeping of savings, joint ventures and leasing which are available in conventional banks, only that they have to be in accordance with Sharia Laws. Saib said most non-muslim Kenyans are unaware they can open an account in a sharia-compliant bank. “Right now it is an issue of education and awareness,” he said. There are three Islamic banks in Kenya including Gulf African Bank, and Dubai Islamic Bank,approved last April. Click here for the latest political news