Failure to sack 1,400 employees from the Kenya Petroleum Refinery Limited led to the sacking of Suleiman Shakombo as KPRL board chairman in 2016. Speaking in Mombasa on Saturday, Shakombo said had been instructed by Energy CS Charles Keter to sack the workers. “At first, I received a call and thought it was a joke. I was later summoned to Nairobi where I was told the 1,400 employees were to be replaced by people from the Kenya Pipeline Company,” Shakombo said. He spoke during a meeting of Coast leaders. The leaders discussed unity of the region. The former Likoni MP was first appointed to the KPRL board as chair by retired President Mwai Kibaki before President Uhuru Kenyatta renewed his contract for another three-year term in July 2015. Most of the workers earmarked for sacking were from the Coast. Of the 1,400 workers, 400 were employed on permanent and pensionable terms. “Most directors were surprised by the instructions. I refused to sack them and earned the sacking,” Shakombo said. He said he felt betrayed by Deputy President William Ruto because he was the Mombasa chair of Ruto’s defunct United Republican Party. “I almost cried by the roadside,” Shakombo said. The former Cabinet minister toyed with the idea of suing the government for wrongful dismissal. “I was planning to go back to politics so I just let it go,” Shakombo said. Shakombo's appointment as KPRL board chairman was revoked in an October 2016 gazette notice. “I was never told the reason officially,” he said. The sacking came amid disagreements between the board and the ministry over the take-over of the refinery by Kenya Pipeline. This was in the middle of a stalemate between the KPRL board and the Energy ministry over the take-over of the refinery by Kenya Pipeline. The refinery shut down operations in September 2013, following a disagreement between the government and India’s Essar Energy, who were the two main shareholders. But the government said the shutdown was because of outdated machines that made it inefficient. Shakombo however said some powerful people in the government had already quickly formed companies and were ready to award themselves lucrative tenders to buy refined oil direct from the source.