As the country marks the third anniversary of the attack on April 2, 2015, the families are still struggling to come to terms with the happenings of the day as the court case drags on. Questions still linger on why the rescue operation took ages and if the country is really prepared for such attacks such as the earlier one at Westgate mall on September 21, 2013 that left left more than 175 people dead and later, the Garissa one. The family of Amos Mwangangi, who died in the attack, said it has learnt to put its pain aside and accept he is no more. Benjamin Nzuki told the Star Mwangangi, 20, by then, was a believer and his family enjoyed his presence in the family. “God allowed him to leave us at 20 years. We have had to accept and live along with the pain,” he said. He, however, took issue with the security forces saying if only they had responded on time, many lives could have been saved and just maybe Mwangangi would be among them.  NO PRICE ON LIFE “There is a KDF Barracks in Garissa. How it took over 12 hours before a special team was flown to the scene remains a mystery but all in all it happened,” Nzuki said. Nzuki said the government has also forgotten about the families of the victims. He said apart from the Sh100,000 each family was given, the government provided caskets, cleared mortuary bills and provided transport to various destinations and all was done. “You cannot pay life. These families are still traumatised, especially to those who had only one child. The government should have put up mechanisms to help these families cope with the agony,” Nzuki said. He said family representatives from the 148 families should be facilitated every year to travel to the institution’s monument in hour of the lost souls for commemoration. Two lawyers and a student were reportedly among the five terrorists who masterminded the Garissa attack. Frank Anunda, a scene of crime officer based at Nairobi DCI headquarters, produced in court 159 photos of Garissa victims, four gunned down terrorists and that of the fifth suspected terrorist, Rashid Charles, who is in the dock. Rashid, a Tanzanian, was the only suspected terrorist arrested in the college after the other four were killed. He is charged alongside Mohamed Ali Abdikar, Hassan Aden Hassan, Sahal Diriye and Osman Abdi. The officer told Milimani trial magistrate Francis Andayi that after investigations, it was confirmed two of the dead terrorists were lawyers who graduated from the University of Nairobi. They came from Mandera county, a third terrorist was from South Sudan and the fourth was a student in Mandera county. Rashid was found by police under a bed. When interrogated, he said he was a student but could not tell the police what course he was undertaking. A year later, al Shabaab confirmed the killing of the chief mastermind of the attack Mohamed Mohamud Ali alias Gamadhere. The militant group released a five-page document where they eulogised their commander as a martyr after he was killed on June 1. Gamadhere was killed together with three militants in Farwamo, 30kms north of Kismayo. They died during an operation carried out by Juba regional state of Somalia security forces who were aided by US Special Forces and aircrafts. Click here for the latest political news