Clinical officers have issued a 28-day strike notice to the government over failed implementation of their Collective Bargaining Agreement. Their union extended the notice from seven to 28 days after the Senate and National Assembly Health committees intervened. The officers said they will stay away from their workstations if a deal is not made. The legislators urged them to back talks. “Now that we are all here, there is no need to go on strike. Let us meet and see if we can work something out to avert a crisis,” Murang’a Woman MP Sabina Chege told officials of the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers yesterday. Secretary general George Gibore accused the government of delaying and frustrating talks. He said the government’s negotiation team always falls short of a quorum and nearly half of scheduled meetings are adjourned. “We submitted our draft proposal in the last week of October last year for negotiations as agreed upon in the return-to-work formula, which sets February 28 as the deadline for the negotiations,” Gibore said. “We also gave Labour CS Ukur Yatani four weeks to convene a conciliation meeting, after which if the dispute will be unresolved, the clinical officers will proceed for strike without further notice.” The clinicians went on strike for two weeks last year. They protested against a new structure by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission that categorised them as unskilled and unprofessional employees. They were grouped with morticians and office messengers. They argued this violated the Clinical Officers Act that classified them as skilled and professional. The officers ended their strike on October 5 and signed a return-to-work formula, when the state agreed to review their ranking and sign a CBA. Chairman Peterson Wachira said the lapse of the notice period will mark the beginning of their strike. “They have given these invitations for far too long. If it is a strike they want, then we shall give them that,” he said. Kenya has 20,000 clinical officers, but only 5,000 work in public hospitals. Clinical officers are mid-level workers often described as the “backbone” of healthcare. They manage all the 4,920 dispensaries, 1,043 health centres, some of the 349 level 4 hospitals, and nearly all outpatient services in public hospitals.