Baringo MCAs have accused police of failure to end banditry in the area. Nelson Lotela (Silale), Maria Losile (Loyamorok) and Daniel Tuwit (Ripko) said police were reluctant to arrest bandits. The county lawmakers said they had forwarded a list of the notorious criminals to security officers. The bandits have killed people and stolen livestock from Laikipia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana and Samburu counties. "Nothing has happened since we forwarded the names of the bandits a month ago," Lotela said. He spoke at Loruk in Baringo North during a peace race to boost harmonious coexistence among residents. Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) were in attendance. Others present were Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula, Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ngeno and wives of eight governors. Wafula defended police, saying leaders should focus on how to end the banditry menace. "We should be talking about how to end insecurity and not shifting blames," Wafula said. Lotela said the list included bandits who raided Ngaratuko village and killed Reuben Rutto two weeks ago. They attackers stole 50 cows. "The criminals are now recruiting more warriors because of the leniency exhibited by security officers," Lotela said. Lotela's claims were supported by Losile and Tuwit. The MCAs appealed to the government to do more to strengthen security. Lotela suggested the deployment of police reservists from the Pokot community to pursue the criminals and recover the stolen livestock. "You will not hear of banditry again if you do that," Lotela said. Kiptis told police to shoot bandits on sight. He wondered how the bandits always manage to dodge the many security officers deployed to the region. "Allow me to become angry for once and tell our forces to pull the trigger and gun down these criminals. They can leave the rest to God," Kiptis said. The governor praised the MCAs for identifying the culprits. He asked police to hunt down the criminals. Kiptis however opposed the hiring of Kenya Police Reservists (KPR) to fight cattle rustling, saying their were enough security officers to do the job. "I can't allow arming of people to deal with criminals when they can engage in profitable activities like rearing livestock," Kiptis said. He promised to allocate funds for Rutto's burial arrangements. The deceased left behind 12 school-going children.