Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to retire from politics after their famous handshake. Kalonzo said the two should give way to other politicians willing to contest for the presidential seat, like him. "Have you seen the peace that has reigned in the country since the handshake?" he asked. "The Jaramogi and Kenyatta families' fight started way back. I think their fathers are happy wherever they are and that's why we have the peace we always want." Read: Kamba leaders endorse Kalonzo's 2022 presidential bid, give nod to reach out to Uhuru Kalonzo spoke at a burial of Wiper party elections controller in Mwingi and a businessman Paul Mutemi. He said since Raila did not announce that he joined Jubilee after the handshake with Uhuru, he remains a Nasa leader. "That was just a mere handshake. Raila is in NASA. The four principals are still together. Let people on social media stop criticising the deal." Kalonzo said he wondering what shocked the citizens more comparing when he failed to attend the swearing-in to Raila's handshake with Uhuru. "Aha, people are funny, they called me watermelon but I am here to tell you that you are the seeds of the watermelon. Am I not better than you?" he asked. "The water is still settling since from the handshake, things have turned to be better," Kalonzo said. He told Raila and Uhuru to let him vie for the top seat as "this is his time and God's wish is that I must contest and win." He called upon leaders to respect each other further joking that the current state of tranquillity is the reason the country, including Ukambani, has received heavy rains. "There is no time God will leave his people. I encourage Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu not to turn back in her fight against charcoal burning and sand harvesting." Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi asked Kalonzo not to support any other presidential candidate but contest by himself "as he will surely make it". "Kalonzo, do not to run for the handshakes since those exchanging them know better what they are looking for," he said at the same funeral. More: Kalonzo to run for President in 2022 with or without NASA, says Mwingi Central MP Click here for the latest political news