Lemon and water is a long-standing favourite among fans of natural remedies, and is used for everything from easing flu symptoms to detoxing your body. Drinking it is linked to a number of health benefits, boosting our immune systems, clearing our digestive systems and even improving the quality of our sleep. However an expert has now revealed there is a key to getting the most out of your healthy drink, and it involves following an exact formula. Lawyer turned nutritionist Geeta Sidhu-Robb, who boasts celebrity clients including Madonna and Gwyneth Paltrow, spoke to Femail on how to create the perfect lemon water mix. What ingredients do you need? One lemon, 1/4 cold water and 1/3 hot water How do you make it? 1. Slice a lemon into quarters, before squeezing the juice into a jug of water 2. Warm water is the most soothing and can be made using 1/3 cup of boiling water and 1/4 of cold filtered water 3. Once the majority of the lemon’s flesh has been squeezed into to the jug of water, you can then drop the peel in - providing it has been properly washed to avoid pesticides from contaminating the water Why add lemon peel? Lemon peels contain a spectrum of vitamins, minerals and fiber, including calcium, potassium, and vitamin C. A study published in the Journal of Clinical Biochemistry and Nutrition even showed that polyphenols found in lemon peel can help aid weight loss. When is the best time to drink lemon water? Benefits of drinking lemon water at bedtime Drinking warm lemon water before bed can provide many health benefits and can help to detox the body overnight. It will help naturally balance the body’s vitamins, nutrients and minerals to replenish what was used during the day. Additionally it can also help to stabalise hormones which may lead to you noticing that you wake up the following morning feeling refreshed and energised. Lastly it helps to repair muscles and joints whilst helping the body find a complete state of relaxation for a good night’s sleep. Benefits of drinking lemon water in the morning Lemon water also serves as the perfect ‘good morning drink’, as it aids the digestive system and makes the process of eliminating the waste products from the body easier. When we wake up, we need to hydrate our bodies, seeing as we haven’t been drinking for roughly eight hours. What are the health benefits? Low in calories, high in vitamins Lemons don’t contain saturated fats or cholesterol and a single glass of lemon water contains less than 25 calories, with nutrients such as calcium, vitamin C and potassium rife within. Immune system booster It is a fruit popular for its therapeutic properties and is said to maintain your immune system, thus subsequently helping to fight off infections. Blood purifier It also plays the role of blood purifier and is a great natural antiseptic for people suffering from heart problems – owing to its high potassium content. Detoxification Lemon water is a natural diuretic which helps the body to get rid of unwanted toxins. Mood Booster Fresh lemon water helps to oxygenate the body and in turn leaves you feeling cleansed and happy. Digestion A glass before bed will help to regulate bowel movement and improve digestion. Clearer skin Acne is often related to diet and digestion, and a healthier digestive system often results in clearer skin. 