Paul Kihara and Noordin Haji have officially taken over as Attorney General and Director of Public Prosecution. At the ceremony for the handover by former AG Githu Muigai, Kihara pledged to work closely with all staff within the confines of the law. "Use me as a bridge to assist you with my experience as together we render timely and professional service to our clients," he said on Tuesday. The new AG also said he will execute the duties of his office with strict adherence to the law and the Constitution. "I pledge to undertake my duties ably and professionally as guided by the Constitution, with the full cooperation of all staff."  Former Attorney General Githu Muigai with his successor Paul Kihara during the official handover at the State Law Office in Nairobi, April 3, 2018. /COURTESY Kihara, who becomes Kenya’s seventh AG since independence, thanked his predecessor for his service to the nation. "Professor Muigai brought life to the Attorney General's Chambers. We thank him for his helpful nature, respect and humility in his seven years of Government service," he said. Read: AG nominee Paul Kihara pledges to ease access to justice, reduce case backlogs In his speech, Muigai, who resigned to pursue personal interests, said: "I leave with great pride having offered the government good and competent representation." New Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto also attended the ceremony that took place at the State Law Office in Nairobi.  DPP Noordin Haji with his predecessor Keriako Tobiko at the official handover on April 3, 2018. /COURTESY  Former Attorney General Githu Muigai, new Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto and new AG Paul Kihara during the handover ceremony at the State Law Office in Nairobi, April 3, 2018. /COURTESY Haji officially took over from Keriako Tobiko who is now the Cabinet Secretary for Environment and Forestry Services. Also read: My father didn't influence my nomination, says DPP hopeful Noordin Haji More on new DPP: [Statement] Why Noordin Haji wants to be Kenya's DPP Click here for the latest political