The Anti-FGM Board is teaming up with various players to ensure it
achieves its objectives in ensuring female genital mutilation is wiped out.
These include the government, the public, private sector, civil society, the
media and development partners. “We want to work together toward a common vision to end the female cut,”
Board CEO Benardito Loloju told the Star. Loloju said the board is coordinating county governments and NGOs in 16
counties where FGM is practised, to synchronize their efforts to eliminating
the cut. He said the coordination is already working well in Kajiado county, saying
it will soon spread to 15 other counties where FGM is rampant. Board director Agnes Leina said even though a lot of anti-FGM campaigns
have been created by NGOs and other institutions independently, people from
remote areas have not heard of Anti-FGM laws due to lack of media and other
communication channels. Leina said dialogue with communities, in addition to
laws and education, is crucial in eliminating FGM since it is a cultural issue. FGM prevalence has greatly reduced since 2011, after a new act was
introduced in the constitution to outlaw FGM. Leina said law enforcement
agencies, including police officers and chiefs, have been trained and empowered
to arrest people who permit FGM in their homesteads. She said FGM is “a useless cultural practice whose generation has passed.
It is wasting a lot of time and resources for the country”. The board acknowledged the successes of World Vision’s anti-FGM
programmes, including alternative rite of passage in Samburu county. The number
of girls studying in primary schools has almost doubled, with some declaring
that they would not permit FGM on their bodies. Leina said the biggest problem is
retaining the number of girls who get enrolled in standard one to standard
eight. World Vision national director Dickens Thunde said the institution has
contracted a consultant to do a baseline survey to measure the impact of its
programmes against FGM. World Vision is targeting to save 2 million girls in Kenya from dropping
out of school due to FGM, early marriage and early pregnancy. Its programmes
aim to ensure access to quality healthcare and education. EDUCATION KEY TO CHANGE Last year during World Day for Gender-Based Violence at Kabarnet Museum
grounds, former Baringo county commissioner Peter Okwanyo blamed illiteracy and
lack of awareness for prevalence of FMG, early marriage and banditry. He said education and civilisation have brought about behaviour change
in the Ilchamus, Tugen and Marakwet pastoral communities, but the Pokot are
still lagging behind. “If only the pastoral communities
could realise the goodness of education and accept to drop their traditional
cultures and get full support from the government and other stakeholders, then
people could coexist peacefully,” Okwanyo said. Chepkwony said the county government is ready to work with the national
government and its agencies to fight FGM and help improve education to ensure
gender-based violence becomes a thing of the past. Tangulbei Women’s Network chairperson Mary Kuket said despite several
awareness forums, some parents are still yet to stop mutilating their girls. “We have had several anti-FGM crusades, so although illiterate, most girls
are already aware of the dangerous effects of undergoing the cut. That is why some
of them are running away from their parents,” she said.