The five-storey building that collapsed in Kakamega on Tuesday night was being constructed at night. The building at Jua Kali estate caved in under its own weight due to poor workmanship, authorities have said. No casualties were reported as it was still under construction and had not been occupied. Occupants in nearby buildings were evacuated after the debris that had blocked their doors was cleared. Housing and Lands executive Alfred Matianyi yesterday said the owner of the building, Stephen Mwaniki, ignored government orders to stop construction. “The building was being constructed at night after we served the owner with orders to stop. We asked him to regularise the approval of the building, but be ignored our advice,” he said. “We had not only ordered [construction of] the collapsed building to be stop, but also warned many other developers putting up buildings without approval to stop." Matianyi said Mwaniki also ignored several warnings from the National Construction Authority. Addressing the press at the site of the collapse, Matianyi said demolition of all unapproved buildings will begin soon. Neighbours said the house began sinking some days ago and the contractor was on Monday and Tuesday trying to put additional pillars to steady it. Kakamega police boss Joseph Chebii said investigations are underway and the owner of the building will be charged in court once arrested. “We’re only waiting for a report by the NCA, National Environmental Management Authority and the county government to confirm various technical aspects and we’ll be ready to charge the owner,” he said. But Mwaniki said he has no technical knowledge about buildings and his contractor is the one who should take responsibility. “I have a contractor whom I gave the work. He is in a better position to explain what happened,” he said. Matianyi asked contractors to ensure all building plans are approved by the physical planning and public health departments, Nema and NCA before signing contracts. Matianyi said that all buildings that have not been approved by the government will be pulled down soon.