MPs yesterday differed over a petition seeking to bar candidates aged 70 and above from running for President. Petitioner Mohamud Abdi said such people are “less productive due to unstable health conditions.” He wants Article 60 of the Constitution amended to cap the presidential age limit at 70. Abdi, a Wajir resident, based his six-page petition on a “scientific argument” about the productivity of older people. Some MPs urged Speaker Justin Muturi not to submit the petition to the House Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, terming it as “a waste of time”. Read: Petitioner seeks to cap presidential age limit Robert Pukose (Endebess) said the petition was “targeting a specific politician in the country.” “After the handshake, I think we should not continue moving towards this direction. We should not make laws targeting anybody,” Pukose said. “This House has lots of important business to accomplish. This petition should be dismissed because it will waste time for this House.” Abdullswamad Nassir (Mvita) said the petition was dubious and couldn’t have been admitted in Parliament. “Parliamentary time is owned by the people of Kenya. We should stop such dubious petitions from having their way into this House,” Nassir said. Related: Museveni signs law removing age cap for president Majority Leader Aden Duale and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi defended the petitioner, saying he was justified to be heard by the committee. “The petition might be misplaced, but we should not use our powers as parliamentarians to demean and scare Kenyans from tabling petitions,” Duale said. “The committee could even offer counseling to the petitioner. He should be given enough time to explain his petition,” Mbadi said. Committee chairman William Cheptumo (Baringo North) said they will handle the petition with guidance from the Standing Orders. Abdi questions why candidates for presidency do not have an age limit, yet the country has laws pegging the retirement age for public servants at 60. “Science has it that persons above the age of 70 are more susceptible to chronic illness and other lifestyle diseases. The productivity of individuals above this age in relation to their effectiveness to discharge national duties is doubtful,” Abdi said. ODM leader Raila Odinga will be 77 when the next elections are held in 2022. His Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka will be 68 while Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula will be 65.  Click here for the latest political news