The Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture will today be in the North Rift region on a fact-finding mission following the maize payment crisis at the NCPB. It will also probe graft allegations in the distribution of fertiliser to farmers. NCPB owes farmers more than Sh4 billion for deliveries. The committee, chaired by Adan Haji (Mandera West), will meet the board’s officials and farmers in Eldoret and Kitale. Farmer Ben Kiptoo said, “We will meet them and explain the problems we go through. However, it’s ironical that so many government officials and leaders have been visiting us yet they offer no solutions in the end.” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said it was notified about the meeting, adding members are ready to give views on long-term solutions to problems in the agriculture sector. ‘PAY FARMERS FIRST’ Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and officials from other counties in the region will also meet the committee in Eldoret. Mandago accused the NCPB of not taking farmers’ issues seriously. He said the importation of cheap maize should be stopped. Farmers have urged President Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to intervene and ensure they are paid their Sh4 billion. The farmers have been unable to buy fertiliser yet this year’s planting season has already started. Hundreds of farmers have been queuing at the NCPB depots waiting to deliver more maize. “Farmers are now desperate and there will be a crisis in the region when the long rains start yet farmers have not prepared to start planting due to lack of money. Supply of subsidised fertilizer is also inadequate,” Menjo said. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri last month said a supplementary budget would be tabled in Parliament for approval by MPs to have cash for the farmers released, but Menjo said no action has been taken. Menjo said, “MPs should have first passed the supplementary budget to have farmers paid before coming down to meet us.” Last week, the government directed the NCPB to vet farmers delivering maize to its depots in the North Rift. This follows an increasing number of trucks delivering maize at the Eldoret and Moi’s Bridge depots. Most are suspected to have been bought cheaply in Uganda. Click here for the latest political news