Suspended KFS director Emilio Mugo says he was unfairy removed by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko and immediate former board chairman Peter Kinyua. Mugu yesterday described his abrupt suspension in testimony before the National Assembly Environment and Natural Resources Committee. The panel is looking into abrupt suspensions as a result of the uproar over illegal logging and involvement of KFS officials. Mugu told the committee chaired by Kareke Mbiuki (Maara MP) that they colluded to make the changes. “When we returned after touring forests on March 12, there was a press conference at the Kenya Wildlife Service that was dehumanising. I went back to Karura office, but did not find officers,” Mugo said. He said he called Kinyua who responded by saying he was attending to private business. Mugo said at around 6pm he called Kinyua again and he said he was with the CS at an undisclosed place. He continued working until 8pm. “I went home, then I was alerted that the chairman went to the office at around 9pm. That was peculiar,” he said. Mugo said he was informed that acting chief conservator of forests Monica Kalenda had been spotted heading to the office. A few minutes later, he received a text from Alex Lemarkok saying he (Alex) had been summoned. Lemarkoko was one of the officers Mugo was looking for. Mugo said he received a call from Kinyua at around 10pm. He asked him to step aside. “The chair said I’m sorry that I’m the one doing this. This people have really pushed me,” he said. Kalenda denies she received a promotion in an acting capacity the same day Mugo was suspended. She denied attending a night meeting, as Mugo had said. According to Mugo, Kalenda, Kinyua and Lemarkoko disappeared during the day only to resurface at night whena decision to suspend him was reached. This was after a dressing down by Tobiko after touring forests following an outcry on logging. On March 13, Mugo asked the chairperson for the suspension letter. However, Kinyua said he was holding discussions and promised to get back to him. Mugo said during a board meeting, deputy chief conservator for plantations Wasike Simiyu broke down while narrating how he was unprocedurally dismissed. A human resource chairman who sits on the KFS board, John Miriti, distanced himself from the changes. He said he could not be used to rubber stamp an illegality. Click here for the latest political news