A makeshift school in Kitui county has gotten a major facelift of Sh3.5million from a local NGO. Kitenzele primary school located in Tsavo is among eight needy schools to benefit from an NGO Weltuhungerhilfe in a fresh revamp. Through a statement, head of project Welthungerhilfe Kenya Nicholas Kimeu said that the construction was funded by Holler foundation. The school commissioned on April 13th, 2018 has new eight classrooms, an administration block with separate offices for the staff, three new VIP latrines each equipped with a hand washing facility, a kitchen equipped with two boilers, food store and 100meter cubic masonry water tank with a guttering system. Read:Nairobi primary gets high-tech upgrade and facelift “Other facilities implemented through the same funding are teachers’ quarters, farm pond with a drip kit and equipped playground,” Kimeu said. Kimeu said that they got labour help from the community and used the locally available materials. He said that the overall population has a high poverty level making it difficult for the pupils to afford school, uniform shoes “The first time our team went to the ground they found the parents thatching up a makeshift structure for a classroom that when we realized that we should indeed help in constructing,” he said. Kimeu said that when the construction started in November 2016, only 50 pupils were enrolled and by the time of commissioning the population had risen to 120. “The school previously had a population of fewer than 50 pupils, since we started the construction the enrollment has increased by the time we handed over the school it had roughly 120 pupils. Thus we expect it to go higher beginning next term,”Kimeu said. Read:Old primary school in Lari gets cement floors after 33-year wait The pupils will also participate in the WASH program, with the school tank and new toilet blocks meant to provide hygiene and sanitation. The ceremony was presided over by Kitui Sub County Director of Education Jefferson Silu.  Click here for the latest political news 