Desperate maize farmers have pleaded for President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's intervention so they can get their Sh4 billion from the NCPB. Their representatives noted on Saturday that they can't buy farm inputs such as fertilisers yet this year's planting season is on. Hundreds of farmers are still queuing at the depots of the National Cereals and Produce Board in the North Rift to deliver more maize. Kipkorir Menjo, who is Director of the Kenya Farmers Association, said: “Farmers are desperate. There will be a crisis in the region when the long rains start in two weeks as they have not prepared to plant due to lack of money. Supplies of subsidised fertilizer are also inadequate.| Three weeks ago, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjui promised that a supplementary budget would be tabled in Parliament for approval by MPs so the farmers' cash is released. Related: Enraged farmers fault state for piecemeal cash release Also read: We made mistakes but you will be paid, Kiunjuri tells stranded maize farmers But Menjo said nothing has been done so far. Moiben MP Sila Tiren said Uhuru and Ruto should ensure the farmers are paid as promised by the government. “We are not seeing any response from the government yet the farmers are in a crisis. We can see a drop in maize production this year because many farmers may give up," said Tiren. Menjo and Tiren spoke to the Star in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county. Last week, the government directed the NCPB to vet farmers delivering maize to its depots in the North Rift due to an increasing number of trucks at the Eldoret and Moi’s Bridge facilities. It is suspected that most of the produce is bought cheaply in Uganda from unscrupulous traders. Read: CS Kiunjuri promises to protect farmers from devious traders NCPB officials are concerned that the suppliers are traders, not farmers. The importers could be making profits of as much as 100 per cent since they buy the maize for Sh1,600 per 90kg bag and sell it to the NCPB at Sh3,200. “The queues are getting longer so we are vetting the owners of the lorries to ensure that only genuine local farmers deliver maize to the depots,” CEO Newton Terer told the Star. The queue at the Eldoret depot is almost two kilometres long but Terer said they plan to clear it in the next week. Menjo said this was a blunder as it led to the current crisis. “Farmers are seriously frustrated because traders and well connected people have taken advantage of the situation to import cheap maize and sell it to the NCPB at double the price,” he said. It is feared the board may not buy maize at the end of the year because its stores are full. “The next harvest is just six months away yet the board is still buying maize. It should plan where to take the maize before farmers are ready to sell the next harvest,” Ben Chelimo from the East African Grain Council said. Other details: CS Kiunjuri promises to protect farmers from devious traders Read more: NCPB vets farmers to weed out 'shady' traders Click here for the latest political news