Kenyan Premier League champions Gor Mahia are one foot into the CAF Confederation Cup group stage following a 1-0 win over South Africa’s SuperSport United at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday.Jaaques Tuyisenge was the hero for the Kenyan giants as he calmly scored from the penalty spot to send United goalkeeper Reyaad Pierterse the wrong way after Teboho Mokoena was guilty of handling the ball in his own half. Gor seemed lively from the onset pushing for early goals and George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo should have put them ahead in the fourth minute after being teed up by Tuyisenge but Thato Mokeke intercepted the final touch for a corner.Kagere came close again in the 11th minute but his shot went wide. Humphrey Mieno’s combination with Francis Kahata and Ernest Wendo was crucial as they dictated proceedings, providing the goods while at the same time shutting out the visitors.Pierterse resorted to time wasting early in the match, earning himself a rap from the centre referee. Siyabonga Nhlapo was also on the referees radar five minutes later for time wasting while taking his throw ins as the match remained a dull exchange into the break.The visitors looked comfortable with a 0-0 scoreline as they continued with they time-wasting antics, which earned Richard Boateng a yellow card after 66 minutes while seconds later, Dean Furman was booked for a dangerous tackle on Philemon Otieno.Meanwhile, an unlikely hero in the shape of young striker John Mwangi emerged from the shadows to score the lone goal as Mathare United pipped Tusker 1-0 and open up a healthy four-point lead at the top of the KPL standings. For much of the season, Mwangi has had to be content sitting on the bench, making the occasional cameo appearances. But when he was handed a start ahead of Dan Mwaura, he took his chance with both hands. With the game trudging towards a draw at halftime, Tusker scrambled to deal with a David Owino cross in the box and from the ensuing melee, like all natural poachers do, Mwangi sensed an opportunity and instinctively stooped low to nod the ball past DavidOkelo. Until then, the game had been finely poised but Mathare could have been two goals to the good had Edwin Seda chose to go for goal when one-on-one with Okello. Still, the Slum Boys managed to hold onto their lead to the end and now have 23 points while Tusker’s title challenge seems effectively over. Mathare's win was made all the sweeter as a host of their title rivals dropped points. Ulinzi Stars needed a late goal to salvage a 1-1 draw away to Bandari while Kariobangi Sharks shared the spoils away at Sony Sugar.