Kenya’s dairy industry is one of the largest in sub-Saharan Africa. Though the last livestock census was conducted in 1966, the current official cattle population statistics from the Livestock ministry place the number of milking cattle at 3.8 million. A survey by Smallholder Dairy Project indicated that there are approximately 6.7 million dairy cattle in Kenya. The Food Agricultural Organisation, on the other hand, estimates a figure of 5.5 million milking animals. In Africa, Kenya is the only country after South Africa that produces enough milk for both domestic consumption and export. However, the 2017 drought affected both the supply of milk and the earnings of the 600,000 Kenyan dairy farmers, which highlights the need for more hay to maintain a steady, year-round supply of milk. Back in 2013, the Agriculture ministry said fodder for cows accounts for approximately 70 per cent of the total expense of milk production. This has probably become an even greater farm cost in light of climate change and inflation.  FLUCTUATING YIELD Dairy farmers are highly dependent on rain-fed fodder, which results in fluctuating seasonal milk output. During the rainy season there is a surplus of grass, but the dry periods cause shortages that underlines the need for more hay. There is a noticeable increase of interest in hay equipment to meet the rising demand for hay. To satisfy this demand, hay production must adopt methods to preserve the nutritional value and efficiency of storage of the bales. Hay bales should weigh a consistent 15-23kg, with a moisture content of 18-20 per cent to be safe for storage. Any more moisture content provides a host for fungi growth, which can lead to fire risk. As with any agricultural process, the use of modern and appropriate equipment contributes significantly to achieving the desired result. The latest Massey Ferguson balers use centerline technology to reduce crop losses and work at higher speeds with reduced mechanical handling which give the farmers greater productivity. A unique feature on these balers is the design of the knotters, which allows for use of the organic sisal available in the local market