Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has promised to devolve the handshake deal signed between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. Kuria said he decided to be part of the initiative after he was instructed by Raila when he met him last month. He said the handshake deal quell the tension that divided the country between Jubilee and NASA supporters. Speaking on Saturday during a fundraiser at Odienya SDA church in Rangwe, Kuria said Raila pleaded with him to lead his fellow legislators in leading the process in various counties. “I can state it here that Raila told me to spread the gospel of peace agreement they signed to the whole country when I visited him,” Kuria said. Kuria was accompanied by Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga and Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo. Read: Raila meets Moses Kuria at his Capitol Hill office He said the handshake would be useless if it is left at the national level between Raila and Uhuru. He said he would first start spreading the deal in Nyanza counties before heading to other parts of the country. “I want the residents of Kisumu, Migori, Siaya and Homa Bay to help me devolve the deal to the grass root,” he said. During the event, Kuria contributed Sh1million to mark the launch of the devolving the handshake. “My presence here and your leaders mean we have begun the process of reconciling Kenyans. We don’t want to disappoint Raila and Uhuru after the truce,” Kuria said. The Legislator said he will use his position as the vice chairperson of Roads Committee in the National Assembly to ensure four roads are tarmacked in Luo Nyanza region for a commemoration of the handshake deal. “I will ensure Roads committee approve tarmacking of at least four roads in Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu and Siaya counties to remember the truce,” he added. Kuria told Kenyans to shift their minds from politics and focus on economic development. “I urge Kenyans to do everything that brings us together and enhances economic growth,” he said. Wanga and Gogo supported the move saying there is a need for national cohesion. Wanga said she is ready to join Kuria in the initiative of creating harmony in Kenya. She argued that the best way implementing the initiative is to focus on the movement of Jubilee MPs to NASA strongholds and vice versa. “The country was polarized with politics but this is the time we need to move from various parts of the country for national unity,” Wanga said. Gogo said the handshake deal was the foundation of economic development in the country. “The handshake was not done for granted but to promote the implementation of development projects in this country,” Gogo said. More on this: Moses Kuria, Nakuru's Lee Kinyanjui welcome Uhuru-Raila pact  Click here for the latest political news  