Kenya Sevens team are seeking to continue with their impressive run as the Singapore Sevens starts today. Shujaa have made it to two consecutive finals in Vancouver and Hong Kong and Innocent Simiyu’s charges return to the scene of their title in 2016. Kenya are in Pool ‘B’ and will open their campaign against England at 7:52am. Kenya edged England 12–0 in Vancouver in March to record their first win over the former colonial masters in seven years. The two sides clashed last year in the Main Cup quarterfinal with the English recording a controversial 13-12 aided by a last minute penalty kick. Simon Amor charges have blown hot and cold this year but they seem to have rediscovered their mojo after winning bronze at the just concluded Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. Key players for the England include speedster Dan Norton, skipper Tom Mitchell and Richard De Carpentier. Shujaa will then face bogey side France at 11:18am in the second preliminary match. The two sides have clashed four times this season with each winning twice. France won 21-14 in Cape Town while Kenya avenged 17-14 in Sydney. The French side edged Innocent Simiyu’s charges 19-14 in Las Vegas while Kenyan again turned the tables 12-7 in Vancouver. USA will be next for Kenya at 2:44pm Kenya and USA have met twice this season with the two sides drawing 19-19 and Simiyu’s charges prevailing 24-19 in the Main Cup semifinals in Vancouver last month. Head coach Innocent Simiyu said they are well rested and have recovered from the exertions of the Club Games in Australia. “We arrived early in Singapore and recovery has been good. We have adapted well to the hot and humid conditions and the boys are fit and raring to go for the tournament,” he said. Simiyu said talisman and play maker Collins Injera have recovered well from the injuries sustained in Australia a fortnight ago. “The injuries have healed well and we can’t wait for Saturday,” he noted. Elsewhere, the Enterprise enters the semi-finals stage today. Holders KCB face Homeboyz at the Lion’s den while Kabras entertain Impala in the other semi at Kakamega Show ground. The final is slated for May 5 at the RFUEA ground.