Battery manufacturer Eveready has unveiled a longer-lasting maintenance-free Turbo brand batteries, as the firm seeks to enhance its market foothold. The launch of the unique battery is the company’s next growth frontier following its separation from US-based Energizer PLC. Eveready, a Kenyan company, terminated its near half-a-century distribution agreement with Energizer in December 2016, saying the deal was tilted in favour of the American firm The new Turbo batteries are maintenance free as they are perfectly sealed to prevent acid or water leakage without need for addition of battery water. The batteries use calcium expanded grid technology which is strong, more resistant to corrosion, overcharging, gassing, water consumption and self-discharge. Speaking during the company’s annual general meeting held in Nakuru last week, Managing Director Jackson Mutua said the Turbo brand of car batteries was now a leading brand following its introduction a few years ago. "Turbo brand in the D size batteries, AA/AAA et al Alkaline and carbon zinc constructions* is now readily available in all retail outlets countrywide and has registered a market presence that is giving its competitors a run for their money," said Mutua. He said the company was keen to maintain the strongest presence possible in all segments of the dry and wet cell battery in a bid to preserve the firm’s heritage. "Turbo brand is owned by shareholders fully. It's increasing market penetration is a direct benefit to the shareholders", he told the shareholders who received special dividends for the first time. This would ensure shareholders got maximum value from their investment and ensure dividends accrue for their investment, he added. The battery maker will also pursue all major debtors vigorously while ensuring future supplies to only outlets that repay promptly. "We are fully behind the board and management on this new path to profitability. We laud you for the efforts you have taken to preserve and maintain the growth of our investment," said shareholder Alloys Chami. Mutua said the company has started reaping benefits of the decision made to seize control its business and diversify its products offering. “The company has strived to continuously satisfy consumer needs in East Africa, which are continually evolving and to participate in growth in the fast consumer moving segment,” said the MD. He said the Company which is one of the region's leading suppliers of portable power solutions launched its own brand of quality portable power solutions under Turbo after decades of distributing third party brands and has made significant progress in entrenching its new brand to its consumer. He said the government's last mile rural electrification programme and digital migration has expanded the opportunities available in the lighting and dry cell categories especially for its bulbs and AA, AAA business which powers home electronics. “The year on year growth of new vehicle registrations has also informed its focus on the wet cell (car battery) category hence allowing t he company enter into product lines that it would previously not engage in and offered it greater flexibility in choosing product formats and categories that are needed in the region,” said Mutua.