ODM leader Raila Odinga has maintained that he won the 2017 presidential election saying this was the reason he took an oath on January 30. He said on Wednesday that NASA had access to the IEBC internal servers and obtained evidence pointing to the fact the coalition had won the election. "This is why I was not arrested even after taking the oath," Raila said in his address to Kakamega residents. The Opposition chief further revealed that he reached a truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta after the latter heeded to NASA's demands for dialogue. He said the president accepted to have a dialogue on tribalism, electoral theft, corruption, and devolution. "The handshake came only after we agreed to end our differences and work together on a cause that will see a united Kenya," Raila said. The ODM leader, who spoke after attending the fifth devolution conference, said he went to see Uhuru alone because it was a dialogue meant for two people. "We wanted to first have an agreement between the two of us. Uhuru represented Jubilee and I represented NASA," he said following the March 9 event. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya The handshake followed after Raila was sworn in as the "People's President" in a ceremony which other National Super Alliance principals boycotted. The government, through the then Attorney General Githu Muigai, said the ODM leader would be charged with 'high treason' for taking an illegal oath. However, after the ceremony, only a few of his confidantes were arrested and charged with participating in the administration of the oath. Among them was Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang', lawyer Miguna Miguna - who was eventually deported over the same. State authorities also went after NASA strategist David Ndii and businessman Jimi Wanjigi in circumstances that were viewed to be linked to the oath. Read: David Ndii's passport suspended amid Raila oath crackdown Raila spoke in the wake of concerns that he abandoned his colleagues in NASA when he initiated talks with the president. Much of this polity has played out in Western region where leaders castigated the Opposition leader of 'using and dumping' their sons. They are Musalia Mudavadi (Amani) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) was also not involved in the talks. "Sasa, mimi nasikia Boni Khalwalwe anatapatapa akiuliza kwa nini sikumwambia. Yeye ni kijana mdogo ambaye alikuwa analala baba akienda mawindoni." (I am told Boni Khalwale - former Kakamega Senator, is going around saying he was not aware of my meeting with Uhuru. He is a small boy who was sleeping while his father was hunting) "Yeye badala ya kula nyama anadai eti ooh mbona sikuambiwa. Kama mimi na Uhuru tumekubali wewe ni nani kukataa?" he asked. (Instead of rejoicing that there is food, he wants to question his father why he was not woken up) Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Raila, known for his parables, said the NASA coalition started hunting last year when they boycotted the October 2017 repeat election and called for dialogue on poll reforms. "We cannot allow the meat to be swallowed as we continue salivating. We have to share it." "We cannot afford to wait until 2022 because unless we solve all the errors of 2017, there will be no 2022," he said. Also read: Uhuru-Raila handshake to bring back Prime Minister Raila further lauded his lawyers led by Senate Minority Leader James Orengo and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo "for the job well done during the Supreme Court proceedings". The lawyers' argument saw the apex court judges nullify Uhuru's election on September 1. In his keynote address at the conference, Raila proposed an expansion of the current devolved structure of government. He said Kenya should now adopt a three-tiers government as was proposed before the 2010 referendum. "As a matter of lasting solution to the problem posed by sizes of devolved units, we need to bite the bullet and revisit the structure of devolution," the ODM boss said. "... the Bomas Draft divided Kenya into 14 regions, it is time to look at how to recover this original spirit.. my proposal is we adopt a three-tier system of government." More on this: Raila proposes three-tier government to enhance devolution Click here for the latest political news 