Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has sacked finance executive Danvas Makori and named Newton Munene as his replacement. Sonko has also written to county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi to reactivate the confirmation process of State House official Peter Kariuki as county secretary. Kariuki's name was recalled last December after he had been named among nominees for vetting. “I convey to the county assembly the reactivation of the approval for Pater Kariuki as my nominee to the position of county secretary,” Sonko said in a letter to Elachi yesterday. The Appointments Committee had already vetted Kariuki before his nomination was recalled. The committee, chaired by Elachi, is expected to table the report before MCAs today afternoon. Lands executive Charles Kerich will serve as the acting finance executive until Munene is vetted and approved. Read:Sonko sacks Finance boss Danvas Makori, nominates Newton Munene Sonko also forwarded a list of 22 chief officers and county attorneys for vetting. Makori was suspended two weeks ago for allegedly spying for former Governor Evans Kidero. He initially served as Kidero’s personal assistant. Kidero denied Makori was his spy. Makori was initially appointed to the agriculture docket before he was moved to finance in a reshuffle in February. Makori's sacking letter was forwarded to him on April 5. “In view of this, your service as a county executive member is hereby terminated with effect from the date of this letter. You will be paid upon clearance and satisfactory handover of all county government property and information within your custody,” the letter reads. “I hereby appoint you as the County Executive Committee Member for Finance and Economic Planning, on acting capacity,” Sonko said in a letter appointing Kerich as acting Finance CEC. Among those nominated to the positions of chief officers are former MCAs and officials of Kidero's administration. Acting county secretary Leboo Morintat has been appointed public service management chief officer, a position he held during Kidero’s tenure. Fomer nominated MCA Abdi Mohamed was appointed water chief officer and Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital's medical superintendent Musa Mohamed was appointed chief officer in charge of medical services. Others are Anne Mwende (disaster management), Mahat Jimale (public health), Lucia Mulwa (youth and sports), David Makori (environment), Mary Maina (finance), Winfred Gathungu (economic planning), Jairus Musumba (devolution), Aaron Komingoi (ICT), Peter Mukenya (e-Governmnent), Stephen Mwangi (Lands), Justus Kathenge (urban planning), Pauline Kahiga (urban renewal), Richard Kavenga (transport), Fredrick Karanja (roads), Fredrick Nzioki (trade) and Paul Gachochi (cooperative develoipment). Lydia Kwamboka was appointed as the county attorney). The nominees will now be vetted by the respective committees of the county assembly and approved by the house before they are officially appointed. Also Read:Sonko sacks PA, director after three months Click here for the latest political news  