The MASK Prize annual creativity competition for schools and young people in Africa closed for entries two weeks ago. As judges deliberate the winners, one piece of feedback from a young Kenyan strikes a chord. Simon Kariuki, 24, from Nairobi, wrote: “Thank you MASK PRIZE for your amazing work and great effort you put in to ensure growth and nurturing of creative talent in Kenya. You are indeed the driver of change in our society.” The MASK Prize is not a usual art competition. It does not look for artistic talent. Instead, it challenges young people to reflect on creative and innovative ways of thinking and doing. It asks them to rethink such attitudes as ‘this is how we always do things’ and replace it with ‘how do we change them to achieve improvement and breakthrough?’ It hopes to inspire young people to bring change, make a difference and build a better future. As new technology transforms the way we live and work, creativity becomes the key education strategy for upskilling young people. Old jobs get phased out, while whole new industries emerge. Children who start school today will have jobs that do not yet exist and that will demand a high level of creative thinking. ‘By 2020, creativity will be a top skill workers will need’, projects the World Economic Forum (‘The Future of Jobs’, WEF, 2016 ).  “How effectively education fosters creativity is now at the centre of the relationship between education and future economic prosperity” (‘New Vision for Education’, WEF, 2016 ). Creativity is not ‘arts’, it is the ability to generate and implement new nonroutine ideas and solutions. However, practising art is essential to creativity learning. It teaches children to observe, imagine and invent, the qualities that are critical to creative thinking.  Art practices in schools, therefore, are not ‘luxury’ but an economic necessity. There is an urgent need to develop new and effective programmes that strengthen creativity in the younger generation. The MASK Prize is such a programme. It provides a unique opportunity for Africans to discover and express their creativity. Schools and young people aged 4-25 enter their works in any medium in the categories of ‘Schools’, ‘Visual Arts’, ‘Music’, ‘Poetry’, and ‘Entrepreneurial Ideas’; all entries are free. The winners are selected by a board of judges and awarded prizes (Sh500,000 ) at the Award Ceremony in Nairobi (This year, the Award Ceremony takes place on May 26 at 2pm at the Michael Joseph Centre. All are welcome). The competition has been a triumph. Since 2013, it has attracted more than 6,500 entries. Starting initially in Kenya, it now has participants from Tanzania, Uganda, Nigeria, Mauritius and South Africa. The Star newspaper has been at the outset of the MASK Prize and a key to its success. Citizen TV, Rivers Foundation, The Nobelity Project, Mayfair Insurance and Mabati Rolling Mills are among other supporters. The MASK Prize participants say: “The MASK Prize motivates us to be more creative and makes us better for it.” It is a “wonderful event”, “lovely and amazing”. “I gained a lot from the competition”. “I urge you to continue inspiring us.” Their parents approve: “Creativity will help our children to succeed in school and later in their professional lives.” As art practices are critically limited in schools in Kenya and other countries in Africa, it is vital that the MASK Prize continues its work. Being a programme of a UK charity, MASK, it relies solely on donations. Please support the MASK Prize by making a donation on www.mobileartschoolinkenya.org/donate.html. However small or large, it will be gratefully received.  For more information, please contact Alla Tkachuk on alla@mobileartschoolinkenya.org.