Direct flights between Tel Aviv and Nairobi will be relaunched early next year after 15 years, top Israeli government officials have said. “I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on the anticipated reopening of the direct flight route between Tel Aviv and Nairobi at the beginning of next year. In the hope it will indeed be opened as planned, it will strengthen even more the relationship between the citizens of the countries and assist in trade and tourism ties,” Israeli Minister for Justice Ayelet Shaked said during the 70th Israel Independence celebrations at the Nairobi Hebrew Congregation on Wednesday. The direct flights were initially set to begin in August 2016 but were delayed because Israeli airline Arkia lacked a plane to deploy on the route it stopped plying in 2003, according to the embassy.  Its destinations in Africa are Kilimanjaro and Zanzibar in Tanzania. “We are working very closely to have direct flights from Kenya to Tel Aviv. This will enhance mutual cooperation, majorly in the areas of trade and tourism,” Ambassador Noah Gal Gendler said. Read: Kenya, Israel to start direct flights in August Israel suspended direct flights between Israel and Kenya following the unsuccessful November 2002 terrorist attack on an Arkia plane with 261 passengers on board, shortly after taking off from Moi International Airport in Mombasa. Industrialization CS Aden Mohamed, who gave the keynote address, welcomed the move and said it will improve Kenya’s trade relations with Israel and investments. There has been an increased interest in Africa by Israel, and this was clear during Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s visit during the inauguration of President Uhuru Kenyatta in November last year — the third to Africa in 18 months — where he met 10 heads of state. He announced Israel was considering starting direct commercial flights to Rwanda too. “Recently, we saw President Uhuru Kenyatta’s historic visit to Israel and an equally two-time historical visit by my Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, to Kenya and to Africa. We have also hosted Deputy President Ruto, to one of the greatest agricultural exhibitions dubbed AGRITECH, which is happening again this year in May, in Tel Aviv. We are hoping to receive a high power delegation from Kenya to this conference,” Israeli Ambassador In July 2016, former Israel Ambassador to Kenya Yahel Vilan told the Star in an interview that Arkia had expressed interest to resume the direct flights from Tel Aviv to Mombasa, and they had gotten the blessing and greenlight from Kenya’s Ministry of Transport. On Justice matters, Shaked said, she was aware a strong and high-quality system of law and order, balancing between human rights and national values, is an important guarantee for the preservation of national strength and allows prosperity and stability. “I know Kenya is also a young but strong democracy. During the past year you have experienced the significance and necessity of a legal system that ordered re-elections to be held,” she said.  Click here for the latest political news