Youth unemployment is a problem that successive governments have worked in vain to address. Public Service CS Margaret Kobia told the Star overall employment in the country increased to 71.6 per cent in 2016, up from 69.3 per cent. But under the “strict” definition of persons “not working, available and looking for work”, the overall rate of unemployment stands at 7.4 per cent. Kobia said this is the group that does not have a job but is available and actively looking for work, with the figure excluding those classified as economically inactive. The 2017 Economic Survey report launched last week indicated that some 65,800 new jobs were created in the 2016-17 financial year. Out of this, 40,600 were jobs in the informal sector, while 25,200 were in the formal sector. According to the report, 879,800 jobs were created in the formal and informal sectors compared to the same period in 2015-16, which recorded 832,000 jobs. The new jobs included the extra personnel engaged in the public sector to serve in the IEBC, and recruitment in the essential services, which include health, education and security services. The report estimated the total number of self-employed and unpaid family workers within the formal sector to have increased from 132,500 in 2016 to 139,400 in 2017. The new jobs from the self-employed category could be attributed to business start-ups by women and youth due to the ease in accessing low-cost credit from government programmes such as the Uwezo Fund MOST VULNERABLE GROUP In terms of youth unemployment, Kobia said the rate of unemployment for youth is higher than that of other age groups, meaning that youth are the most vulnerable to joblessness. About 85 per cent of all the unemployed persons are aged below 35 years, with the age cohort 20-24 recording the largest unemployment rate at 19.2 per cent. An additional female youth constituted a slightly larger percentage of unemployed youth at 64.5 per cent. The CS said employment within the public sector accounts for a small percentage of total wage income earners in the country, currently standing at about 737,000 thousand persons in 2016. In this financial year, the government is expected to spend over Sh85 billion on civil servants’ salaries over the next four years after the Salaries and Remuneration Commission adjusted their salaries. Implementation of job evaluation grading structure for the entire public service sector carried out last year is therefore expected to increase the wage bill to Sh650 billion by mid this year, up from Sh627 billion. While ending their term last year, the Sarah Serem team said the wage bill is unsustainable. She said the commission was concerned about the unsustainable wage bill, which has been steadily rising over the years. Indicating it had an annual growth of 11 per cent, Serem urged the government to look at the number of employees its institutions need to take. “The medium-term target is below seven per cent of the GDP, but it currently stands at nine per cent, which is still high,” she said. Kobia said Kenyans do not like to see salaries that do not appear to reflect the position of the Kenyan economy. “Unjustifiably high wages and allowances can make the service appear aloof to the public. So I support the framework provided by the SRC. It is fairly comprehensive and standardises wages of public servants to ensure fairness and that one group is not paid significantly more than others doing similar work,” she said.