The National Land Commission has visited a land at the centre of a dispute between CS Farida Karoney and Athletics Kenya official Barnabas Korir. The 16-acre land in Nandi county is claimed by both Karoney and Korir. The land is in Sirinoy village, less than a kilometre from the CS's home. Nandi NLC coordinator Solomon Githinji led a team comprising several government agencies during the visit. Githinji said the visit was prompted by a complaint by the community that Karoney had fenced off and ploughed part of the Kingwal Swamp that is next to the disputed land. “We can confirm that the boundaries have been demarcated by surveyors. The swamp is public land,” Githinji said. Githinji asked residents to protect the swamp, saying it was endangered. “We want to get views from the community and educate residents on how to utilise and protect the swamp,” Githinji. He was accompanied by officials from the National Environmental Management Authority, Food and Agricultural Organisation and officials from the county departments of land and environment. Centre for Human Rights and Democracy had complained that Karoney had interfered with the wetland. "Her workers erected a fence inside the wetland which we want protected," the NGO's programmes officer Kipkorir Ngetich told NLC chairman Mohammad Swazuri in a letter. "We wanted the NLC to investigate the interference on the land," Ngetich said in Eldoret on Saturday. Last month, the Talai Council of Elders also protested the alleged interference on the wetland. “The CS may not have been aware of the boundaries. She is no longer interested in the swamp,” Githinji said. He asked those who have encroached on the swamp to move out or risk eviction. "The NLC will demarcate the boundaries of the swamp to protect it," Githinji said. The dispute between the CS and Korir is pending in a Kapsabet court. Karoney sought orders to access the land. The CS said she bought the land and that details of the purchase are in the lands registry. On February 12, the court order the survey and fencing of the land, a move Korir resisted. Karoney said she bought the land from Linus Kogo. Korir's family said they also bought the land more than 50 years ago The CS sued Korir alongside his brothers Amos and William Korir.