Property developer Home Afrika is seeking to raise Sh1.8 billion from a strategic investor before end of the year in bid to complete stalled projects. Speaking to the Star on the sidelines of an investors forum yesterday, Home Afrika Chief executive Dan Awendo said the funds will be used to complete stalled infrastructure at Migaa ( to cost Sh1 billion) and Tamarid Tree Residence ( to cost Sh800 million) Awendo said that atleast 15 high net-worth investors made up of individuals and corporates have expressed their interest in funding the listed developer. He however declined to release the names citing that it is against the Capital Markets Authority regulations. In may 2016, the firm received an approval from its Shareholders to raise Sh5 billion shillings to facilitate completion of the projects, increase profitability, and improve shareholder value at the Nairobi Stock Exchange. According to the CEO,Sh 5 billion on a market capitalization of Sh400 million is very skewed, so we have broken it into different phases”. It is in the first phase that they are seeking to raise Sh1.8 billion, where the first Sh1.2 million will be convertible debt and the remaining Sh600 million is equity. He blamed the delay on getting an investor since 2016 to a delayed process of identifying an investment advisor who later took time to prepare the marketing information which includes the due diligence and the funding structure.  POOR GOVERNANCE While the company has been making losses since 2015, Awendo blamed it on poor governance structure. "When you have a business running and every shareholder is involved in decision making it is impossible to have that business moving, to resolve that we needed to bring down the number of directors involved and also re-skill them,” he said. The firm is 67 per cent owned by local individuals investors, 28 per cent local institutional investors and five per cent foreign investors. He also regretted why the firm did not involve itself in long term fundraising to solve its liquidity challenges ,finish projects quickly and generate future premium products. Moving forward, the firm has also turned to seeking short term capital from its smart homes projects to meet their day to day obligations.