The tourism sector received a major boost on Friday after it landed an opportunity to host the fourth series of the Aviation Football Cup (AFC World Series) in Mombasa. The events, comprising aviation professionals and international airlines, will be held on October 31 to November 3. It is first time the event is being held in Africa since it was launched in Portugal in 2005. The events coincides with the 79th Skål International World Congress slated from October 17 to October 21, also to be hosted in Mombasa. Skål is a body that incorporates tourism players both in travel and hospitality sectors. Kenya Association of Hotel keepers and Caterers CEO Sam Ikwaye said the two events will build confidence and market the sector globally. Speaking to the Star, he said tourism stakeholders will use the opportunity showcase their products and build networks among global players. "It is a plus for the industry as we will have the opportunity to showcase our product and opportunity to put Mombasa in the world map," Ikwaye said. Ikwaye said the travel advisories issued at the height of terrorism threats and in the wake of the divisive 2017 vote impacted negatively on the traditional source markets. Paul Mutua, the marketing director at Sports Tourism Limited, said hundreds of visitors from various countries will participate in the event. "It is an honour for a country to be given such opportunity to host such auspicious world event," Mutua said. Mutua said they are holding talks with Ministry of Tourism, county government, among other stakeholders to make the event successful. Martin Van Der Breggen, general manager Reef hotel, said the event will promote the iconic historical and tourism attractions that Mombasa offers to the world. "International airlines will add value to the reviving of tourism  industry. They event will bring a influx of foreigners who will assist in marketing the sector," Breggen said. According to the organisers, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Trinidad and Tobago, USA will represent America. India, Jordan, Malaysia, Oman, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates will be Asia’s flag bearers. Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Georgia, Germany, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Greece, Italy, the United Kingdom among others will represent teams from Europe. African countries among them Egypt, Libya, Mauritius, Morocco, and South Africa will also participate in the event. Kenya will be represented by Aviation and Tourism teams and teams from the national and county governments. Mombasa Tourism CEC Fawz Rashid said the county will provide a conducive environment to ensure the event succeeds. Click here for more political news