Boni elders want the community allowed to continue practising female genital mutilation to “keep women and girls’ sexual life under control”. This despite the ongoing massive campaigns against FGM. The Boni Council of Elders yesterday said FGM has been part of their tradition and they are not ready to let go “just because of modernity and human rights”. FGM can lead to sexual dysfunction, heavy bleeding during childbirth, obstructed labour and painful menstruation. Mutilation can also cause recurrent vaginal and urinary infections, infertility and chronic pain. These can lead to mental anguish. For decades, girls from the forest community have been facing the knife, despite these health risks. Intense pressure from human rights groups and the government forced the community to stop practising FGM — at least in the open. But the elders said they can no longer sit back and watch an integral part of their culture go down the drain. Chairman Ali Gubo said morality has been thrown to the dogs since they stopped FGM and they want to “recover our lost glory”. Elder Hamisi Musuo said those willing should be allowed to face the knife, instead of locking out the entire community. He said some residents practise FGM secretly. “Let the campaigns go on, but our culture shall equally go on. The government had better allow us to do this thing openly because either way, we will still do it,” Musuo said. He said they are not afraid to speak out as many women and girls see no harm in being mutilated. He accused anti-FGM advocacy groups of failing to consider “women’s feelings”. Gubo said FGM is not as harmful as people have been led to believe. He said it lowers women’s libido and enables them to remain faithful to their husbands, while girls avoid premarital sex. Many marriages are in trouble and some have broken because women have not been circumcised and cannot be “tamed sexually” by their husbands, Gubo said. He said women and girls “have become loose and are doing the unthinkable”. Gubo said many girls are having premarital sex, which was unheard of when they used to be cut. “The government should consider our plight so we can restore sanity and morals. Our forefathers started the practice,” Gubo said.