Kenya Simbas head coach Ian Snook is targeting the country into the top 20 of the world rankings. Speaking during his unveiling at the RFUEA grounds yesterday, alongside his assistant Murray Roulston, the New Zealander said the country has the potential to be among the top rugby nations in the world. He has put qualification to next year’s Rugby World Cup in Japan as his immediate priority. “My goal is to see Kenya move up the rankings and be a top 20 team in he next two years and also qualify for the World Cup,” said Snook. Kenya are currently ranked 30th in the world and third on the African continent behind South Africa and Namibia. The side has slipped from a high of 22 last year following defeats to Germany, Hong Kong, Russia, Chile and Namibia. Snook, who arrived in the country earlier this week said he was impressed by the Kenyan players, who have power and physicality with just a little bit of tweaking in various facets of play missing to make them among the world’s elite. “We have had limited interaction with them and from the gym session, I saw the guys are excellent athletes and all we have come to do is to impart our knowledge and the see the players improve,” added Snook Snook, who has a wealth of experience coaching professionally for the last 33 years in New Zealand, South Africa, Australia, England, Ireland, Japan, Croatia and Italy, said he was delighted to be in Kenya and wanted to do something special. “We have received good hospitality from everyone, from the players to the other members of the technical bench and we believe that, with everyone involved, we can lead the country to greater heights,” noted Snook. Asked whether there is adequate time in terms of preparation for the Rugby World Cup qualifies, which start in June with an away tie against Morocco, Snook said the next two months will involve intensive training to ensure the players are in the right shape. “Time is limited so we must have extended training periods to ensure that our message gets across on how we want to play,” added Snook. He said he will infuse both the New Zealand and Kenya way of play with less emphasis on physicality. “I want the players to express themselves and play with freedom,” he observed.