President Uhuru Kenyatta plans to market Kenya abroad as a destination for trade and investment during his five-day United King tour this week. Uhuru during his tour starting on Monday will be keen on boosting trade ties and diversifying investments between Kenya, UK and other Commonwealth countries. Statehouse spokesman Manoah Esipisu said Uhuru "intends to aggressively" promote Kenya as a preferred destination for investors during the high-profile Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting from 53 countries. "On Tuesday, the President will visit the London Stock Exchange for a meeting with investors, using the event to share areas of investment opportunity in terms of his Big Four agenda as well as job creation," Esipisu said in a statement. Uhuru after visiting the London Stock exchange will deliver an address at Chatham House, the shrine for policy and investment thinkers. Read; Uhuru to give talk at Chatham House on Tuesday Esipisu said Uhuru's speech will focus on Kenya's efforts in achieving inclusive growth, positive role the country undertaking in supporting regional peace, and Kenya's position in the ever-changing world in terms of globalization. "It is essentially a platform for the President to share his view on a range of areas as a Kenyan leader, as a Pan-Africanist, and as one of the people closely involved in seeking and securing peace in our region_ in South Sudan and Somalia," Esipisu said. "...and are also addressing the matter about which he cares deeply such as regional integration. He will obviously speak to his Big Four development agenda, which is at the heart of his drive for inclusive growth." Uhuru will on Wednesday participate in a meeting on both East African and African investment issues particularly on driving greater foreign direct investment into Kenya and the region before attending the Commonwealth summit on Thursday and Friday. Trade, diplomacy, security and regional development are top on the summit's agendas as Uhuru plans to also meet Kenyan investors in the UK. "The President is due to hold discussions with British Prime Minister Theresa May on trade, investment, security and bilateral relations between Kenya and the United Kingdom," Esipisu said, adding that Uhuru will also hold talks with Queen Elizabeth II. The UK is a key traditional partner of Kenya being a big importer of products such as fresh flowers, tea, among others. Esipisu noted that Uhuru will also discuss the Blue Economy as Kenya prepares to host a major summit on the subject later this year. Funding for infrastructure development, harnessing the economic potential of the youth bulge and increasing women participation in growth will be part of the discussions during the week-long UK summit themed 'Towards a common future.' The summit brings together at least 5000 participants from government, business, and civil society. Uhuru's tour comes as Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki also leaves the country for Cuba this week finalize on crucial bilateral agreements critical to realizing Jubilee administration's Big Four agenda on universal healthcare. "She is going to close on key agreements critical to the President's agenda to reduce common illnesses, such as malaria," Esipisu said. The government in partnership with Cuba plans to launch a malaria vector control project this year in Busia, Kakamega, Bungoma, Siaya, Kisumu, Migori, Homa Bay, Kisii and Nyamira counties. Esipisu said these counties are the worst affected by malaria in the country and require aggressive control to ensure there is a significant reduction or an end to the disease.  Click here for the latest political news      