Kenya’s Eunice Wambui’s chances of advancing to the women’s singles quarters received major blow after falling to Canadian Kelly McKerhen 21-10 in the preliminary round 4 match at the Broadbeach Bowls Club here in Gold Coast, Australia. Wambui had earlier in the day trounced over Nelly Sena 21-10 and will have to play her Section C round 5 match this morning ( 2am Kenyan time) against Nooroa Mataio of Cook Island to know her quarter-final fate. Wambui admitted that she lost concentration at some point and that is how she lost her fourth match. “I started well but at some point I developed cold feet and eventually lost. But it’s not over yet! I hope to win my final match and see how things will pan out,” she added. Besides, Wambui complained that the marker on one section of the green was against her. “I was well prepared for this tournament but things did not just work my way,” she said. Her team manager, Bernard Ndung’u concurred that Wambui pressed the panic button at some point and that is how she lost. Wambui said she has not given up on her mission to win a medal and she hopes to win today’s match, coupled with favourable aggregates. “This is not actually my first Commonwealth Games. I was at the 2014 Glasgow Games and together with Susan Wambugu, we finished 14 out of 18,” she added. She said she is happy with her performance so far but urged the government to give them support. “We lack the necessary support to train since there is no public green to train on. The few we have are private and attached to private clubs and for one to train there, you have to be a member, which is a bit costly,” she added. She said there are only seven greens in the country and it is not easy to access them. They include — Limuru, Karen, Mombasa, Muthaiga, Ruiru, Njoro and Nairobi. She said the only public green that used to exist around Aga Khan is no longer there. She said there is a lot of talent in the country as long as they get backing. She revealed that she was originally a tennis player and got into the lawn bowls by accident. “I featured prominently in the Kenya tennis Open between 2007 and 2010 when I reached quarters before shifting to lawn bowls in 2012,” she noted. She said she developed in lawn tennis at Limuru Country Club while on her way to tennis training. “I was passing by and I saw a group of bowlers training. I made inquiries and one man by the name of John Gachango offered to train me. From there, the rest is history and what you see here is the result of that change,” she added. The former Muthurwa Secondary School student said she tried combining tennis and lawn bowls but it wasn’t possible. After the Commonwealth Games, she said her next focus is the Champions of Champions bowls planned for October 29 in New South Wales here in Australia.