Is former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka changing tact ahead of the 2022 general elections? This is the question in the minds of many Kenyans who feel that the NASA principal has changed tune and instead decided to make peace with his political nemesis. Kalonzo has been viewed as following the path set by Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta's famed March 9 handshake. The two referred to each other as 'brother' and told Kenyans of their resolve to quash their differences and heal Kenya. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Also read: Uhuru-Raila handshake to bring back Prime Minister After the Harambee House handshake, Raila has been meeting Jubilee politicians in line with their promise to initiate a reconciliation process to unify the country. Raila met retired President Mwai Kibaki in Muthaiga, Nairobi, on April 20. He met retired president Daniel Moi at Kabarak on April 12. His extended handshakes have caused jitters in the National Super Alliance. Kalonzo, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, and Musalia Mudavadi (Amani) are the coalition's top leaders. The four, alongside Isaac Rutto (CCM) who rejoined Jubilee ahead of the October 2017 vote, worked together in the quest to dislodge Uhuru from the presidency. After being left out of the March 9 events, Kalonzo, Mudavadi, and Wetang'ula accused the ODM leader of 'eating with the enemy'. Read: We weren't aware of Uhuru-Raila meet, NASA principals say Read also: Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans But the tide has changed drastically with Kalonzo's courtesy call on Nairobi governor Mike Sonko at City Hall on Tuesday. The latter is a Jubilee politician. The former Vice President held talks with Sonko and even went ahead to vouch for him to run for the next term. Also read: Kidero left me in tight spot but I'll fix Nairobi, Sonko tells Kalonzo The City Hall meeting came days after Raila also met Sonko and urged him to put down his foot in delivering the pledges he made to Nairobi residents ahead of the 2017 vote. Kalonzo has been endorsed as the Kamba community kingpin and has been tipped to contest the presidency in 2022. The grand question is why was he had to wait for Raila to hold meetings and follow after him. This has been escalated by revelations that the Wiper leader is expected to lead a delegation to meet Moi in Kabarak this week. Sources said the meeting was rescheduled from last Friday "because Mzee's diary could not allow it." "Kalonzo’s formal request was accepted. The meeting can take place anytime this week," a source privy to the arrangements told the Star. However, the agenda of the Kalonzo visit remains unclear. This is in as much as is said to be about Moi's health following his recent treatment in Israel. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu will be part of Kalonzo’s delegation. Read: Former VP Kalonzo to visit Moi this week Kalonzo and Moi have a history stretching to the days he was Mwingi North MP. He served as Minister for Foreign Affairs between 1993 and 1998 in Moi's administration. He also held the position in President Mwai Kibaki’s administration between 2003 and 2004. This was before he was moved to the Environment ministry and subsequently named VP in the event which followed after the chaotic 2007 general election. Kalonzo is viewed to have a perfect chance to start thinking about 2022, and to plan on how he will position himself to form or be in government. His latest overtures are alive to the adage of 'there are no permanent enemies in politics, only permanent interests". Observers of his moves says he should consider working with Uhuru’s government and strategise a possible partnership with Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. Kalonzo was a candidate in 2007 and also wanted the Cord and NASA tickets in 2013 and 2017 respectively.  Click here for the latest political news