Nominated Member of Parliament Geoffrey Osotsi has filed an application seeking to
stop the extension of stay orders that allowed Barack Muluka to continue
serving as ANC secretary general. In
the application, Osotsi claims that the ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kelvin Lunani,
Margaret Ndanyi and Muluka’s application was frivolous and premised on
deliberate non-disclosure and misrepresentation of material facts and the
orders should be set aside. He claims that the ruling on the jurisdictional objection by the Appellants
was rendered way back on 8th February 2018 and the Appellants have
not provided good or sufficient reasons why they did not challenge the same
within a reasonable period of time after it was rendered. Read: Tribunal reinstates Osotsi as SecGen in blow to Mudavadi Osotsi
believes that grant of stay is an equitable and discretionary remedy
that ought to be granted on equitable terms. But their conduct and/or
deliberate omissions the Appellants have demonstrated that they are undeserving
of the orders and that the same ought to be vacated forthwith. Theirs is a
blatant abuse of court process for personal political expediency and at the
expense of the wider membership of the Amani National Congress. “Indeed
in so far as my removal is concerned, the Court will appreciate that the
Tribunal made sound findings based on unconverted direct and circumstantial
evidence of coercion and undue influence on the part of the Applicants. The said
findings are premised on sound principles of law including the Constitution,
applicable laws in Kenya and comparative jurisprudence in established
democracies the world over”, he says in court papers. Read: Mudavadi's party rejects Godfrey Osotsi, says tribunal relied on hearsay He
adds that it is settled law that Higher Courts should be reluctant to interfere
with decisions of specialized tribunals established by law to deal with
specialized matters. As a specialized tribunal, the Political Parties Disputes
Tribunal is by its nature better equipped to handle disputes relating to
political party affairs and it therefore follows that its decision in matters
within its jurisdiction should not be lightly interfered with. He
claims Mudavadi’s Memorandum of appeal makes generalized the grounds appeal
and does not disclose a prima facie case with good and/or any chance of
success. Similarly, the application which is largely premised on the Memorandum
of Appeal does not disclose substantial loss, if any, that will be suffered by
the Applicants in the event that stay of execution is not granted. “Moreover,
for as long as the Muluka continues holding himself out as the Party’s
Secretary General the Party will be exposed to the risk of breaches of the law
and consequently, possible adverse claims by third parties which may
irremediable affect the party in the long run. It is therefore fair and just
that the orders sought be granted and that the orders granted on 13th
April 2018 be set aside pending the hearing and determination of the application and the Appellant’s application”,he says. He
claims that it was not disputed that he is the founder Secretary General of the
Amani National Congress and cannot fathom any loss or prejudice that Mudavadi
and other members would suffer by his continued acting as such. Last
week Barack Muluka got a reprieve after the court gave orders of stay
that had annulled his appointment. The case will be
heard on May 7. More: Barrack Muluka remains ANC Secretary General after court order  Click here for the latest political news 