The opposition by some Luhya leaders to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula's push for Luhya unity ahead of 2022 has shocked many western residents. Word has it that residents are wondering what the leaders opposed to the merger to have a strong political party to increase the Luhya community bargaining power for the big seat want. Ironically, the opponents are the same Jubilee-allied leaders who used to call on Wetang'ula, Mudavadi, Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo to re-unite and agree on one presidential candidate. Surely, Luhya unity must be a drama dance. *** Is there a fallout out at Police headquarters? Our mole tells us that top police commanders have clashed over a proposal to procure over 120 million guns from the Czech Republic. The Sh30 billion tender being pushed by one of the senior cops seeks to tie police to a ten-year framework contract for the sole contractor to supply the arm. Some of the middle level cops have expressed reservations to the proposed deal on grounds that Kenyan security agencies do not use the guns intended for purchase and that one of the senior cops pushing the deal is nearing retirement. May be the kickback is the incentive for a retirement package. *** Are women representatives rightfully in Parliament? Well, a section of elected members of the National Assembly were yesterday overheard lamenting that women representatives are not effectively articulating issues of women and youths. The lawmakers were contemplating making various amendments to the law to ensure that the County MPs are stationed at the county level to assist governors in pursuing the women agenda at the grassroots. They were also overheard discussing that governors should not be elected by citizens but appointed from the corporate world to ensure that they zero-in on issues affecting the citizens at the counties. ** Who is the legitimate owner of a prime piece of land located near the General Service Unit headquarters? Well, two city public schools – Ruaraka High School and Drive-Inn Primary School – have been embroiled in a tug of war with a private firm, Afrison Export Import Limited and Huelands Limited, over possession of the 13.8 acre-piece of land. Moles have been asking Corridors why the National Land Commission hurriedly paid Sh1.5 billion — part of Sh3.3 billion — to the firm as compensation for the land, despite objections from the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission. A battle is now raging between the management of the two schools and the firm, with each claiming that they possess the land. Someone must have… eer, eaten.   