It was not even
an agenda on the programme. It was forgotten: Nay, neglected. There was
definitely a collective amnesia among the governors regarding an issue that is
at the soul of devolved governance in every county. Without security,
everything else falls apart. We have a
project in Kisumu county, at its fledgling stage, called gwend dayo. In other words, the
chicken of the grand mother. We want to encourage poultry farming in every homestead as
part and parcel of food security and
agribusiness. If vagabonds roam around day and night snatching the chicken in
the homesteads, our project may never see the light of day as a result of
insecurity. Yes. Police
officers carrying guns are an important and visible sign that warns those contemplating
to break the law. But there is more to it than that. Police, bearing guns or
working as secret agents, need to be in sync with those they are protecting
regarding the issues that affect the peaceful existence of the people wherever
they live and do business. In fact, the
best undercover agents are usually the people themselves. Where police arrive
in villages as agents of an outside power residing in headquarters distant from
the people, there is a very slim chance that the two groups will enjoy each
other’s confidence. To put it simply, security is about providing the people
with a place to feel at home. One
cannot feel at home with the protector against danger being someone alien to
the village, or a stranger to the discourse on security at the home level. Our Constitution
says we have two levels of government: Separate but interdependent. Schedule
Four of the Constitution divides functions between these two levels of
government. Security happens to be a function of the national government, while
most functions related to the economy of county dwellers rest in the hands of
the county governments. Economic security is an issue the National Intelligence
Service takes as a vital aspect of its security role in safeguarding our nation
and the interests of her citizens. If, then, in
undertaking economic activities such as farming, trading and transporting
goods, our people feel insecure, the NIS will not have achieved its mission as
an intelligence gathering institution in government. Once the NIS becomes aware
of these issues, it needs to get the relevant arm of government at that level
to deal with them. At the village level, this arm of government is both
national and local: The old provincial administration still plays the role of a
security instrument, while the county government has officials at the grassroots,
most of them in tune with political issues and the participation of the people
in self governance. The two arms of government must, therefore, interdepend in handling security at the
grass roots level.  Let me take it
further to the County Executive level. The County Governments Act creates a
structure of government that, where it is properly established, gives a very
effective chain of command from the County Executive to the village level. The
Village Council, comprising five people with a chairperson, is a much more
effective structure of democratic governance than the assistant chief, who
functions without a clearly laid down structure of governance at the village
level. On security, the Village Council is a vital institution. But it can only
work effectively if “upstairs”, ie at the county headquarter level, there is an
institutionalised system of bringing together the two arms of government
effectively dealing with all aspects of security in the county and cascading
that function through the system to the village level. It is only when that is
done that the concept of interdependence
between the two levels of government will be realistically operationalised in
the counties. The county and
national branches of government are currently working in silos in regards to
security, thereby being ineffective and underutilizing available human
resources. The best example is what happened after the presidential election in
August last year. Inevitably,
after the presidential election was hopelessly mismanaged, demonstrations
occurred in NASA strongholds. The police reacted in the usual manner: Dealing
ruthlessly with the demonstrators. This simply stirred the embers of more
rebellion and anger, quite often directed towards the wrong objects and wrong
people. In Kisumu, I
decided to take personal charge of the demonstrations to ensure they were
peaceful and orderly, telling the people to go home when the demonstration of
the day was over. There was a caveat to this plea: Whoever pretends he or she
was demonstrating after that would then face the law squarely. I also requested
the police to do their normal patrols working with community leaders. It
worked. Lesson learnt — security cannot be divorced from county governance
where the two levels of government must interdepend. But this is
easier said than done. There is a whole cultural revolution we need to go
through. Most of our police officers believe their job is to enforce the law by obeying commands from their superiors. Where the
line of authority extends all the way from the President’s office to his lapel,
where his grade is stitched, he or she is not likely to listen to anybody else
however well meaning the message is regarding keeping security. Further, few in
the national security system are at the moment fully aware of the imperatives
of the Constitution when it comes to security. I don’t know whether the Kenya
School of Government has come up with a curriculum that can address this issue:
Keeping security in counties in the era
of devolution: interdependence and its imperatives. If Professor Ludeki
Chweya and his team are in need of ideas, they have a goldmine in the Council
of Governors, where “rich honesty” in this matter, like Shakespeare once said,
“dwells like a miser in a poor house”. 