Students of public universities are a frustrated lot owing to the ongoing lecturers' strike in push for implementation of the 2017-2021 CBA. The students have lamented the emotional and financial stress the boycott has visited on them since the dons downed tolls on March 1. The strike, which entered Day 57 on April 26, has paralysed learning and research work across the 31 public universities and rendered over 600,000 students helpless. Read: Foreign academic unions back striking dons' grievances Life has not been easy for some of the students, especially those from humble backgrounds who struggle to see themselves through school even during uninterrupted sessions. The strike has doubled their suffering as they pay rent and buy food with zero returns on investments for lack of learning. Some have resorted to holding occasional group work and individual revision sessions, but even that is not sufficient to supplement the lecturers' absence. Worse still, the students will have to pay full fees plus arrears once lecturers call off the strike. There calendars have been disrupted. Those who were supposed to clear studies by September last year will now have to wait longer to graduate. This is after lecturers went on strike three times over the 2013-2017 Comprehensive Bargaining Agreement and disrupted learning timeline. Edwin Kegoli is one such aggrieved learner. The final year Political Science and Public Administration student should have cleared his studies last year. "I’m stuck in Year 4, semester 2. It is unfortunate that no one seems to sympathise with the agony students are going through," the immediate former chairman of Moi University's Nairobi campus said. Also see: Striking lecturers miss March salaries over strike, not fazed Last year, Kegoli marshalled fellow students to hold peaceful street protests for the government to address their plight. Their actions were aimed at influencing the government to intervene and reach an agreement with lecturers over their pay deal. He lamented the lack of seriousness from the government in dealing with the lecturers’ plight which in the long-run interferes with their learning. "Our time in campus is unnecessarily lengthened with the prolonged strike, something that can be addressed if the ministries of Labour and Education, jointly with UASU leadership, undertake to resolve the stalemate. Kegoli expressed empathy with self-sponsored students who are feeling the brunt of the lecturers strike. He said some already parted with well over Sh100,000 in fees in January but learning hasn’t happened for close to two months now. "We feel like no one is there to help us. We don’t see the way forward now that the government seems uninterested in resolving the crisis in universities," Lindah Mbaisi, a 3rd year Communication student (WHERE), said. She said she was supposed to clear schooling by June next year but that is now a pipe dream. "This strike is really prolonging our stay at the university and it’s also a bit difficult for students to venture into the job market because they don’t have certificates," she added. Also read: Varsity students bear the brunt as lecturers' strike enters 50th day Samuel Mwangi, a first year Bachelor of Education student at Laikipia University, echoed the same sentiments. Kegoli called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and end the stalemate. He said students would like to be part of his Big 4 Agenda by graduating and offering their services directly or through existing support structures in factories, construction industry, health care, and agriculture. "We still believe that President Kenyatta cares about the plight of students and appreciates our efforts in campuses and opine that he can bring to an end this higher education crisis," Kegoli said. The stalemate over the CBA has attracted attention from far and wide. Three foreign Education labour unions from Brussels, Britain and Germany have written to Education CS Amina Mohammed to move with speed and end the crisis. The CS and his Treasury counterpart Henry Rotich have remained non-committal on tabling a counter offer. They argue that the deal must be guided by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, but the body is yet to be constituted. The tenure of the previous commission expired in December. The latest entity to attempt intervention is the Catholic Church which has invited UASU leadership to try and find a way forward. In a statement on Wednesday, the chairman of the Conference of Catholic Bishops Rev Philip Anyolo invited UASU leadership led by Secretary General Constantine Wasonga for talks. He said the meeting was aimed at understanding the nature of the stalemate and see if he can broker mediation with the Inter-Public Universities’ Council Consultative Forum. "It is in view of this that I’m seeking for a meeting with you and your team to enable me understand the nature of the stalemate and see how the Church can facilitate in creating a platform for dialogue or engagement between UASU and the employer," Anyolo said in a statement signed by KCCB General Secretary Fr Daniel Rono. Read: No end in sight to dons’ strike As the strike continues to bite with no end in sight, some universities have resorted to reviewing their academic calendars. On April 25, the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology adjusted semester dates for all its students. The university Senate suspended learning for semester for 1st and 2nd year students in second semester for the May-August session, and sent the students on break. It ordered second year students pursuing Special education (BED SNE), Social and Home Studies (Bsc Public Health), and SAFS (Bsc AGED) to proceed on attachment. The varsity said third year students in the second semester and those pursuing Diploma courses and are in second semester of their second year should proceed on teaching and/or industrial attachment. Only final year students, who are in their second semester, will be allowed to continue with studies until May 18. In a statement, the Senate said examinations for fourth year students will be held between May 21 and May 29. The university said students in year 1, 2, and 3 will continue with their second semester between August 6 to 31. "Semester two exams for years 1,2 and 3 will be from August 20-31." It said the first semester of the new academic year will be held between September and December. According to the university, the first batch of first year students who sat KCSE last year will be admitted from September 3 to December 7. Click here for the latest political news 