African ministers of education have been asked to work together towards implementing resolutions of the PACE meeting which ended in Nairobi on Friday. The Pan African High-Level Conference on Education reached a Nairobi Declaration with calls for the need to improve the quality of teacher and student training. The meeting also gave weight to issues bordering on curriculum review, education funding, and gender equality. The adoption of mother-tongue as the medium of instruction in schools, especially in early learning, was identified as the best way to boost education standards in the continent. Delegates also stressed the need for countries to focus more on Technical Vocational Educational Training to boost skills resources in Sciences, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. Education CS Amina Mohamed noted that Kenyan parents have a belief that quality education was about university degrees. "Parents insist on university education as the epitome of education. We must create skilled labour by mopping up all students who missed out on university slots and send them to TVET institutions," Amina said. She said the financial implications that will arise from move will be dealt with later. "We will ask UNESCO for support after showing them we have created the capacity," she said. Earlier on Friday, the CS directed the Kenya Universities and Colleges Placement Service to immediately commence the process of placing over 500,000 youth to TVET institutions. She said this would ensure the youth gain the necessary skills and competencies required for gainful employment in line with the Big 4 Agenda - Manufacturing, Housing, Agriculture and Universal health. President Uhuru Kenyatta, who officially closed the summit, emphasised the need for partnerships between governments in implementing the declaration. He regretted that only seven African countries have achieved provision of universal education in line with SDG4- Education 2030 (equitable, inclusive quality education.) "We, therefore, need to work together to achieve the goals. We owe it to our children and our people. We all identified the problem to our education, what remains is implementation." "Leadership will make the difference," UNESCO assistant director general Firmin Edouard said. He added: "Adjust education systems using local resources. We cannot adopt old systems and expect different results." Delegates, who included education ministers and high-level government officials, representatives of the United Nations organisations, the African Union, also agreed that countries should develop and strengthen regional and national learning assessment systems to shape policy formulation on teaching and learning practices. They also ratified the declaration that governments should allocate at least 4-6 per cent of their GDPs or 15-20 percent of their annual budgets to education. Under-funding was cited as a key contributor to school drop outs in many countries. Currently, Kenya falls short of the global threshold as it allocates only 5.3 percent of its budget to education. The Education ministry was also urged to embrace inter-ministerial cooperation with other key ministries like Health and Treasury which are key in strengthening policy implementation on education. The AU, UNESCO, SDG4 co-conveners, development banks, and the Association for Development of Education in Africa were called upon to support the education development initiatives across all the 54 African states. Ministers were given a week to go and study the declaration and raise any concerns they may feel were not handled well. Morocco was unanimously voted as the host of the next PACE conference. Click here for more political news  