Murang’a senator Irungu Kang’ata has lauded the removal of Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula as the leader of minority in the Senate. Kang’ata said Wetangula deserved to be replaced with Siaya's James Orengo saying he was the loudest in insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta during the campaigns. Read;Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted The senator noted that Wetangula who is one of Nasa co-principals together with Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi is the only senator elected through his Ford Kenya party and that he did not deserve to lead members of the coalition in the house. Kang’ata said it is unfortunate that Wetangula and the two other co-principals are against the unity being forged by the President and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. He said the co-principals do not have a strong support base and will have to eventually back the pact between Raila and the President as they have nothing to bring to the negotiations table. “Wetangula was one of the most vocal Nasa leaders in mudslinging jubilee leaders and causing confusion in the Jubilee government so I do not sympathize with him,” he said. Kang’ata said he fully supports Orengo who is now on the government’s side saying the desire of the co-principals is for the country to be in a continuous political mood so that they can then accuse the government of non-performance in 2022. “We are all happy that the political noise in the country has toned down and people can now concentrate on building the nation,” Kang’ata said. More on this read; 'Bitter' Wetang'ula throws tantrums, says not interested in Minority seat The senator said this at Gakuyu primary school in Kigumo constituency where he had organized a free optical medical camp. He noted that majority of locals are suffering from eye problems that are mostly caused by lifestyle diseases. Over 2,000 patients were treated in the camp and issued with free spectacles and medications while the serious cases were referred to Kenneth Matiba Eye and Dental hospital for free surgeries. Kang’ata said many locals were suffering from optical disorders in silence as they are too poor to travel to eye hospitals for treatment. The senator has so far organized 30 medical camps since he was elected as Kiharu MP in 2013, using his personal resources. “This exercise costs millions but I foot it with my own money because I have the heart to assist the less fortunate,” Kang’ata said.  Click here for the latest political news