Lawyer Miguna Miguna has watered down President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga's handshake saying "it has failed to end Jubilee tyranny". He said the Kenyan case cannot match that of Nelson Mandela and FW de Klerk "which marked the defeat of the apartheid troops by Umkhonto weSizwe and Cuban forces at Cuito Cuanavale." "It wasn't a private or secret deal. It ended apartheid. Has the "handcheque" killed @JubileePartyK tyranny? No!" he tweeted on Sunday. The self-proclaimed NRMKe general further dismissed the Immigration Department's assertion that he refused to present his Canadian passport for stamping at JKIA. He maintained that there is no "international travel convention"
requiring passports to be stamped at airports of entry as was ordered by
the Immigration team. "Canada doesn't stamp passports. I never
renounced my Kenyan citizenship. I never lost it. The only travel
document a Kenyan is required to produce at the JKIA is the Kenyan
Passport or ID!" Miguna said. Also read : Miguna refused to cooperate to be allowed entry - KNCHR Miguna was held at the airport for three days after he arrived in the country on March 26. He was put on a Dubai-bound plane on March 28 despite his lawyers fighting for his release. He had been deported to Canada on February 6 following his role in Raila's swearing in as the 'People's President' on January 30. "The reason for my abduction, detention, torture and forceful removal
was because I swore @RailaOdinga in as The People's President," Miguna said in his series of tweets. He took a swipe at his critics who have backed state for his deportation saying the lot should be aware that the court ordered that he be granted unconditional entry into the country. More on this: State justified to deport Miguna Miguna, says former aide to Raila "Twelve times, High court judges have issued valid court orders nullifying the purported cancellation of my citizenship by birth and Kenyan passport." Miguna, who is currently in a Canadian hospital for toxicology tests, said it was wrong for his critics to cheer "tyrants who have been ordered to return him to his house in Runda". Read: Miguna ordeal: 'Drugged by 50 armed criminals' The orders were served upon Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, Inspector General of police Joseph Boinnet, and Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa. The three, while appearing before Parliament to answer queries on Miguna's deportation, denied claims of being served the orders. Matiang'i categorically told the MPs that he was not aware such orders exist adding that none of the state offficials were served as Miguna lawyers said. He has moved to the court of appeal to challenge the Sh200,000 each of them were charged in the contempt proceedings which followed the stand-off. Click here for the latest political news