Six years after his death, the family of British Aristocrat Lord Nicholas Monsoon has hope of finding justice for the death of their son Alexander. Lawyers Alfred Olaba and Yusuf Abubakar, representing the family, on Tuesday gave their final submissions as an inquest into his death came to an end. The family wants two officers corporal Naftali Chege and Joseph Munyiri, who were adversely mentioned, arrested and charged with murder. Senior principal magistrate Richard Odenyo is expected to give a ruling on June 18. The Mansoons believe Alexander was killed by police while in custody at Diani in Kwale. He died in May 19, 2012, as he was receiving treatment at Palm Beach Hospital in Diani after he was rushed there with breathing complications. An inquest into his death was opened at the Mombasa law courts in 2015 in which 29 witnesses including his mother Hillary, testified. It was then suspended, but restarted last year. The family said Alexander's death resulted from assault by the officers at Diani tourist police offices where he was briefly detained before being taken to the cells.The lawyers said most of the evidence linked the two death. Alexander died while chained to a hospital bed. Olaba said the arrest was a set up to extort money from Alexander. He was killed after they failed to squeeze money out of him, he said. He told the court bouncers at Tandoori Bar told Chege he was creating disturbance at the premises. “Chege claimed Alexander was smoking bhang, but all witnesses said they never saw him smoking. This means the bhang was planted on him to frame him,” he said. Olaba said two people in the company of the deceased were not arrested. His friend identified as Andrew, was arrested, but was later released after his father bailed him out. However, efforts to bail out Alexander were futile, he said. Olaba questioned how Alexander's phone and ATM card, which were seized by Chege, were found with a civilian. He said Chege and Munyiri assaulted Alexander when they could not extract a bribe. It was evident the officers tried to conceal the time they booked the deceased on the Occurrence Book, which does not tally with the time given by other officers. Olaba said Alexander has breathing problems as a result of the assault. “There is enough circumstantial evidence linking Chege and Munyiri, who was the reporting officer, to the death of Alexander,” Olaba said. He dismissed claims that Alexander was intoxicated. Olaba said pathologists had proven his blood did not contain drugs. However, the Independent Policing Oversight Authority urged the court to exonerate the police from the death of the Briton. They said none of the witness saw the policemen assaulting Alexander. Through their lawyer Festus Kinoti, they urged the court to look into the circumstantial evidence and whether it supported claims that Alexander was assaulted. Kinoti said their was no evidence that could make the court make the court make a positive conclusion that he was assaulted at the station. “There is no possibility that he was assaulted by the police but the cause of the injury on his head remains a mystery,”said KInoti