Churchill Otieno, who is Nation Media Group's Digital Managing Editor, has taken over from Linus Kaikai as Chairman of the Kenya Editors Guild. Otieno won the election that took place at the Nairobi Club on Saturday. In his acceptance speech after the vote, he said "we need to get our house in order" for objectives to be achieved. He noted: "Many tend to think power is only in government but there is power in the private sector and in people who hold different positions in society. Many of them are not in government." Kaikai was NTV General Manager before moving to Royal Media Services to be Chief Operations Officer. Via Twitter on Saturday, he said it was an honour to serve as the guild's Chairman. "I exit, proud of our collective endeavors in the interest of true journalism. I wish the editors well in the journey ahead," he said. Kaikai will be remembered for efforts including fighting media gagging by the government. He protested the shutdown of three private television stations - NTV, KTN and Citizen TV - on January 30, to stop the live streaming of the swearing in of Opposition leader Raila Odinga as the People's President. In a statement, the guild reminded the government that the media was not an actor in the contest between Jubilee Party and Nasa over the outcome of last year's presidential elections. “The media remains a mere messenger and a chronicler of any events happening in our country. Our country's vibrant media is made up of competent professionals in journalists and editors that continue to make sound decisions on what constitutes news, in public interest,” he noted. Otieno was elected alongside Maina Chege (Vice Chairperson), Christine Nguku (Secretary General), Arthur Okwemba (Treasurer) and Francis Openda (Assistant Treasurer). Mark Agutu is the Legal Secretary, George Nyabuga the Innovation Secretary and Robin Njogu the Digital Secretary. The Deputy Secretary is Hassan Kulundu while the Membership Secretaries are Linda Bach and Joan Pereruan. More on this: Editor's guild call for special sitting to change leadership Also read: Editors' Guild alarmed by State House secret orders to media Click here for the latest political news 