Police have
summoned the self-made chairman of Kitengela Tuk Tuk Sacco after claims he has been charging vehicle owners Sh80,000 for operations. James Kuria is required to produce documents that prove the sacco is registered by the government. He is said to have kept a low profile since last Friday when summons were issued for him to appear before area deputy OCS Joseph Koskei. Claims are rife in Kitengela that
Kuria could be a member of the outlawed Mungiki sect. He denied this saying he was a Christian. Related: Is Mungiki making a comeback in running Kajiado transport Also read: Sh100,000 compulsory Kajiado PSV operation fee sparks fear of Mungiki rebirth Koskei said on Monday: “We have
summoned him to explain the circumstances under which he
collects a non-refundable membership fee of Sh80,000 from each of the more
than 123 operators in Kitengela.” Tuk Tuk operators in Kitengela
claim the money goes to a personal account. They have appealed to the government to
investigate Kuria. “Kuria is always on the lookout for new entrants into the transport business. He
forces them to pay the Sh80,000 for life membership. If you buy
another Tuk Tuk, he charges the same amount,” said a businessman with three of these vehicles that operate in Kitengela town. Kuria earlier confirmed that new members are charged a non-refundable Sh80,000 for registration before they are allowed on the roads. “This is just a small token to
enable our office to operate. Once one has paid the amount, he or she is required
to pay Sh600 monthly for operations in Kitengela. We put that
money into investments and at the end of each year, we discuss what members wish to do with their money," he told the Star. “People join our sacco voluntarily and they get shares when profits are realised. It is not necessary that you make profits every year," he also said, adding the Sh600 is not mandatory. But some of the operators said Kuria lied. “That is a big lie. We do not get
anything out of that compulsory contribution. We have never heard of any annual
general meeting," one said. The transporters also said each Tuk Tuk owner is charged Sh50 every day as daily
upkeep of the chairman. This translates to Sh6,150 every
day, money which is reportedly meant for the chairman’s airtime and lunch. Any operator breaking the rule is
fined twice twice the amount. Should the amount not be paid, vehicles are impounded. So far, the chairman has collected a total of at least Sh9.8 million from the 123 Tuk Tuks operating in Kitengela. The rules were effected in December last year through an annual general
meeting, according to the chairman. It is suspected that members of the outlawed sect have infiltrated the transport sector and estates where they charge residents for protection. Police had been mum until last week, when a Tuk Tuk belonging to their colleague at Kitengela police station was impounded by gangsters. More on this: 100 drivers arrested in Kitengela clampdown, Mungiki probe underway Click here for the latest political news 