Former Jubilee MP aspirants in the city have thrown their weight behind embattled Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, but urged him to be more consultative in his leadership. Former Embakasi West Mark Mwenje told Sonko to incorporate some election losers who supported his bid saying doing so would help him achieve his ambitions and realise his manifesto. “W e have seen kiosk and buildings being demolished. These buildings belong to the same people who voted for him and he needs to listen and take their plight,” Mwenje said. Former Starehe MP hopeful Francis Mwangi said criticism of the governor by different quarters is premature as the city boss is still in his early days in office. "Sonko should be given time to fully constitute his government so that he can deliver on his promises,” he said. He urged Sonko incorporate some election losers who supported his bid, adding that some them have a wealth of leadership experience and expertise that can help him realise his manifesto. On his part, former Starehe MP hopeful Francis Mwangi, said the criticism of the governor by different quarters is premature as the city boss is still in his early days in office. "Sonko should be given time to fully constitute his government so that he can deliver on his promises,” Mwangi said. “He is only eight months in office and he inherited a mess up house. People should be patient with him,” Mwangi, flanked by a host of former aspirants, told the press at The Hood hotel Monday. Sonko has been criticised over the perceived failure to address problems residents face and his abrasive and erratic style of leadership. Residents complain of garbage menace, traffic jams and hawkers among other problems. But Mwangi said Sonko was still laying structures and urged the residents to be patient with the city boss. The former aspirants also faulted politicians who are calling for a referendum to create the office of the Prime Minister, saying this was the right time for the exercise. “We are just from a long and draining elections. Kenyans need to rest and give their leaders time to work. Leadership need to give the 'handshake' secretariat time to come up with a road-map on how to reconcile and develop this country,” former Kiambaa MP aspirant Charles Munyua said. They say they embrace the agreement between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga to work together for the benefit to the county. They however warned that the handshake should not be contused to mean a coalition government.