The government has hatched a plot to kick out workers’ and employers’ representatives from the board of trustees of the National Social Security Fund. In what appears targeted at Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli and Federation of Kenya Employees executive director Jacqueline Mugo, the plot will be executed through proposed amendments to the NSFF Act 2013. The proposed changes are contained in the Statute Law (Miscellaneous) Amendment Bill 2018 sponsored by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. Read: State probes botched civil servants’ NHIF deal Curiously, Duale had in February said that Atwoli and Mugo had overstayed their welcome at the helm of the board, triggering fury from the Cotu boss. “The unfortunate statement clearly attests to the usual obsession by certain forces in positions of power with the operation of NSSF,” Atwoli hit back. The Bill seeks to give powers to the Cabinet Secretary for Labour to appoint five people outside government to the board of trustees. According to the proposed law, the five would be appointed courtesy of their knowledge and experience in matters relating to administration of pension funds, actuarial science, insurance, auditing, accounting or law. Read: Uhuru launches Sh4 Billion NHIF cover for students Separately, a showdown is looming between workers’ unions and the state after the Jubilee-engineered amendments to the law that will make strikes difficult and punitive. In amendments to the Labour Relations Act 2007, Jubilee seeks to extend the strike notice period from seven days to 21 days. In a bid to make industrial actions difficult, the government recommends a union can only proceed on strike if the notice is supported by two-thirds of the members of the union. But Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said they will move to court if the Bill is enacted. “A law that has great public interest is supposed to go through public participation,” Panyako told the Star. According to the proposed amendments, the right to go on strike shall be limited for the purpose of ensuring the continuation of essential services. More on this: NHIF members get four outpatient visits a year in any contracted hospital  Click here for the latest political news