Bill Cosby, used to the high life as
one of America's biggest stars, will likely see his entourage of
aides replaced by an inmate paid pennies to help the legally
blind comedian navigate life behind bars after he is sentenced
for sexual assault. Cosby, 80, faces up to 30 years in prison when he is
sentenced in the next three months for drugging and raping
Andrea Constand, 45, in 2004 at his sprawling compound outside
Philadelphia. He is appealing the verdict, which could
potentially delay his imprisonment for months or even years. Should he eventually leave the world of private jets and
luxury hotel suites, the disgraced star of the 1980s television
hit "The Cosby Show" will become probably the best-known
celebrity to hear the gates of the Pennsylvania Department of
Corrections shut behind him, according to a department
spokeswoman, Susan McNaughton. She said previous and current high-profile inmates have
included legislators, ex-police officers and Jerry Sandusky, a
former Pennsylvania State University football coach convicted in
2012 of being a serial child molester. Another is Mumia Abu-Jamal, a political activist convicted
in the 1981 murder of a Philadelphia police officer. Incarceration will be a stark change for the comedian, whose
net worth was estimated in 2016 by Fortune magazine at $400
million, with $100 million invested in real estate, including
homes in New York, Massachusetts and Nevada. He also owned a
private jet, artwork and dozens of classic cars. Once Cosby arrives behind bars, he will face an
"incarceration reception process" to determine his healthcare
and psychological treatment needs, his security level, and to
which of 22 male prisons he will be sent. He will be one of just 83 inmates aged 80 or older, and one
of very few who are legally blind, McNaughton said. Such prisoners are typically assigned a sighted inmate, who
is paid just 19 to 42 cents an hour, to assist them and lead
them through the facility. "Certainly Mr. Cosby would be fine," she said. "Of course
they (the inmate assistants) are screened, and there is a lot of
monitoring and supervision." Like most inmates, Cosby will likely be allowed to receive
and send emails, which are also screened for security purposes.
Most inmates use prison-approved tablet computers. Cosby's prison assistant might also help sort any fan mail
that passes a security screening. "No drugs or contraband or influence of escape," McNaughton
said. "If it clears through the mailroom, it's delivered to the
inmate." Read: US comedian Bill Cosby found guilty of sexual assault Click here for the latest political news 