Poverty rather than passion pushes Pokots to kill and steal livestock from their neighbours, Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto has said. He accused the government of shooting 5,000 cattle during retaliatory attacks, hurting the Pokots’ source of livelihood. “Pokots are always accused falsely of attacking and stealing from the neighbouring pastoral communities, even though it is not their fault, but poverty’s,” Moroto said on Saturday. He spoke during Tiaty MP William Kamket’s homecoming. The statement comes amid deadly banditry attacks on the borders of Kapedo, Kerio Valley, Elgeyo Makwakwet, Baringo North and South. 13 MISSING The frequent attacks and cattle raids affect the Turkana, Tugen, Marakwet, Samburu and Pokot pastoral communities. Moroto raised concerns about the suspected kidnapping and mysterious death of 18 Pokot residents from Tiaty subcounty. He said 13 herders are missing, while some bodies were found in the bush. Moroto said the community will retaliate if no action is taken. Last week, suspected armed Pokot bandits stormed Amaya market, Tiaty subcounty, and killed a trader - Erastus Kubui. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said police rescued 25 nonlocal traders on the verge of being lynched. Kamket told the government and media to stop “demonising” Pokots by calling them bandits and cattle rustlers. “We don’t deny there are criminals in our midst, but not the entire community. The armed bandits must be treated like any other criminal, arrested and face the law,” he said. The Pokot leaders appealed to the state to use humane methods to end rustling, such as enforcing education and encouraging business startups rather than retaliatory attacks. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo urged the government to arrest individual criminals. Senator Gideon Moi condoled with the families who lost their loved ones and livestock during “revenge attacks” allegedly by security officers. “I also felt for my friend Kamket and the three MCAs who were arrested last year and charged falsely for allegedly inciting and funding bandits...The courts finally acquitted them for lack of proof,” he said. Gideon said he will fight for the rights of the oppressed pastoral communities. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen attended the homecoming. Click here for the latest political news