Miguna Miguna has a track record of being a brawler, a vicious political and intellectual brawler who is not afraid of rolling in the mud. In days past he has been described as a buffoon who acts like a bull in a china shop. He has been accused of behaving like a demented ox! If in doubt, ask Esther Passaris, Peter Kenneth, Mike Sonko or Dr Evans Kidero. Anyone who engages Miguna in a verbal duel does so at his or her own risk, as he often goes for the jugular. Forgive me for the analogy, but it is akin to wrestling with a pig in the mud! You come out stinking to high heaven but the pig enjoys it. Miguna Miguna is also a citizen of Kenya by birth. I can state this authoritatively as he was several years behind me at the Faculty of Law of the University of Nairobi. I believe that the Kenya government was seized of all the above facts. What does one do when confronted with such a character or drama king? A wise and discerning individual/institution changes tack and develops alternative strategies. A fool launches a no-holds-barred charge similar to Alfred in Lord Tennyson’s The Charge of the Light Brigade — a narrative poem regarding the Battle of Balaclava during the Crimean War where a fool of a brigadier led his troops into an almost absolute massacre. What action did the government take? They called in the police, the national guard (GSU) and just fell short of summoning all other units. All to tackle a single unarmed citizen? Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, our gateway to the world, came to a standstill. Journalists and lawyers were clobbered in full glare of international media cameras as was Miguna, who was later sedated and bundled out under armed escort to Dubai, UAE. The government disobeyed or disregarded at least 10 court orders to produce Miguna in open court. Is this an open invitation to anarchy? How about if citizens decided to treat court orders with the same contempt? As a consequence of one foolish and thoughtless administrative action by the Department of Immigration our international image is now in tatters and the fiasco is not over. At one point the UAE did not want Miguna and he could not proceed to any other destination without travel documents. The only way out would have been to instruct our Embassy at UAE to provide him with both a passport and a one-way ticket back home! I shudder at the thought of how much expense and pain it would have saved our beloved country. Why did we let some bloated egos get in the way of a simple matter? The government has now opened itself to the law of unforeseen or unexpected consequences and created an unlikely hero in Miguna.  *** Raila Odinga’s attempts to save his NRM General hit a stone wall. He was embarrassed and left the airport a dejected and broken man after failing to access the presidency. After recognising Uhuru Kenyatta as the legitimate President of Kenya, he abandoned the call for the People’s Assembly and referendum, and surrendered the call for electoral justice and reform. Uhuru conceded nothing and the political ground is shifting to Raila’s detriment. Was the handshake designed to break NASA and slowly puncture the ODM leader? Has the political enigma been spannered? Open disobedience of court orders by government is also raising eyebrows and this is a recipe for anarchy. Is it designed to thumb a rude finger at Chief Justice David Maraga? Why the sudden disobedience and impunity? Is it part of the re-visitation threat? Or is it meant to frustrate Maraga and other judges into resignation? Jubilee could be planning to kill several birds with one stone and it is in times of such crisis that the Chief Justice must stand firm! Kaa ngumu [stand firm], Wazee!