Tenants of the 100-unit Khadija Estate in Mombasa have protested against Hassan Joho’s administration, accusing it of attempting forceful evictions. At least five tenants of the estate, which has been marked for demolition for the construction of a Sh200 billion high-rise housing project, had their belongings thrown out of the houses. The tenants accused the Governor of scheming to have all the houses allocated to his close allies and individuals who work for the county. They claimed the beneficiaries include personal assistants, bodyguards and inspectorate officers. The complainants said they are not against Joho’s housing project, which is facing opposition at the courts, but that they want a proper legally structured agreement on compensation. “They had promised to give us Sh500,000 as rent for the two years the project will take if we agree to move out. We asked for a proper agreement but they refused to heed our request," said Jane Wanjiku, who is estate association chair. "They want things done without any legal binding."  Belongings of tenants of the 100-Unit Khadija Estate in Mombasa, that were  thrown out by county askaris following evictions, April 18, 2018. /CHARLES MGHENYI Wanjiku said that in 2016, High Court judge PJ Otieno ruled in favour of Joho saying the tenants should be evicted for the project to proceed as planned. However, they moved to the Court of Appeal seeking to overturn the ruling. The court restrained the county from evicting the residents pending the determination of the case. Read: Sh200 billion Mombasa housing project to proceed, rules High Court More on this: However, according to Wanjiku and the other tenants, the county has launched yet another scheme, where when a tenant defaults for one month, he or she is thrown out without a notice. “They come and evict us without any notices whenever we default for a month or two. We went to court so the five tenants could get back into their houses. The court issued the orders but the county officials do not want to let them in,” she said. The chair said this has been happening for the past three weeks. Another resident, identified only as Obunga, said one of the tenants whose belongings were thrown out of the house had been staying in the estate since 1976. “Some of us have been here for between 20 and 40 years. Why isn't Joho respecting court orders? We are asking the Governor to respect the rule of law and let the people continue to live in the houses pending the conclusion of the case,” he said. He said the most surprising thing is that once the county askaris go to evict a tenant, the next one moves in immediately.  A court order on one of the Khadija Estate houses, compelling Mombasa county to allow residents to continue living there until their case is determined, April 18, 2018. /CHARLES MGHENYI Reached for comment on Wednesday, Mombasa Land and Housing Executive Edward Nyale said those who were evicted had not paid rent for more than a year. Nyale said they were not evicted on the basis of the upcoming housing project but because they had violated the Tenants Lease Agreement. "In December last year, we wrote letters to all the rent defaulters. They had arrears for between one and two years. We had marked nine serial defaulters for eviction but four made payments." Nyale said the county read mischief in the court orders. "The tenants rushed to court to restrain the county from evicting them. The orders were given on Tuesday and when we went to appeal today, the duty judge refused to listen to us," the Executive said. Click here for the latest political news