The High court in Mombasa has dismissed a petition challenging construction of the multi-trillion shilling Lamu coal power plant in Mandu Bay area. In the petition, Activist Okiya Omtata sought a number of declarations among them orders to quash the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) License for the Lamu Coal fired power plant, the Electricity Generating License plant as well as the power purchase agreement. He claimed that the power plant is a scandal of monumental proportions that does not make sense as there is already an oversupply of electricity in Kenya. In his decision, Justice James Olola held that the complaints raised by Omtata ought to have been raised as an objection after the public was notified of the application for the license through advertisement in the newspapers. Olola observed held that parties are bound to follow the procedure provided by the law before they can invoke the jurisdiction in court. This means that the matter should have in the fist instance be heard by the National Environment Tribunal or the Energy Tribunal. “The contention by Omtata that tribunals cannot be independent given their mode of appointment was neither supported by evidence nor the law,” said the judge. Omtata had sued the Kenya Power and Lightning Company, ERC, PS Treasury, PS Ministry of Energy, the Attorney General and National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA). He argued that the affected members of the public were not given adequate notice and opportunity to participate in the proposed 1050 MW Coal Fired Electricity Generating Plant and that the alleged 25 years agreement commits Kenyan taxpayers to pay about shs 36 billion per year as capacity charges for the plant. It was also his contention that the Environmental Impact Assessment Study Report, upon which the Environmental Impact Assessment License for the Plant was issued, was conducted by a conflicted expert hired by the proponent of the project. The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Study was released for public comment in June 2016. By an advertisement in the Daily Nation and Taifa leo Newspapers, of 12 th September 2016, the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) notified the public of the 2nd Respondent's application for an Electricity Generation License. In response to the said advertisement, only a community group dubbed 'Save Lamu' submitted an objection to ERC on 20 th October 2016. Thereafter a public hearing was held in Lamu on December 6 2016 to hear the said objection. The said objection was after consideration dismissed as per the Gazette Notice published on 24 th February 2017. However, Save Lamu lodged an appeal with the National Environment Tribunal challenging the ESIA-Study and EIA License which appeal is pending determination by the Tribunal. Construction of Amu Power, backed by a consortium of Gulf Energy and listed Centum Investments, is expected to take 30 months. The plant will largely rely on coal imports from South Africa at an earlier estimated cost of $50 (about Sh5,172 ) per tonne until coal production from Mui Basin in Kitui county starts.