AFC Leopards’ 100 percent win record under Dennis Kitambi came to an end yesterday when they fell 4-2 to Tusker FC at the Kericho Green Stadium. The win saw the brewers extend their dominance over Leopards, who was reduced to 10 men after 28 minutes when the returning goalkeeper Gabriel Andika was sent off after a lunge on opposition striker Timothy Otieno. It was an afternoon to forget for Andika who hardly found playing time in the new season as his howler earlier on handed Tusker the opener when he was slow to clear a backpass from Mike Kibwage only for Otieno to intercept the clearance goalwards after six minutes. Whyvonne Isuza had the best chance for Ingwe shortly after conceding but his fierce shot never troubled David Okello, who stood tall in goal. Despite trailing, Leopards recollected themselves and controlled the game, pinning the brewers to their own half. Ugandan winger Baker Lukooya was lively in Leopards right wing and his dribbling skills were a nightmare to his maker, Collins Shivachi. His combination with the overlapping Dennis Shikayi bullied Shivachi who had to be bailed out twice by Lawrence Kasadha. Overlapping for an equaliser proved costly for Leopards as a long pass found a unmarked Otieno in the 28th minute and with the Andika to beat, the lanky striker dribbled past for the goalkeeper who fouled him in the box forcing the centre referee to award a penalty and a red card. Guilty of the costly foul, Andika left the pitch in tears while first choice Jairus Adira wore his gloves with Henry Uche the  sacrificial lamb. A composed Otieno sent Adira the wrong way to complete his brace from the resultant penalty. Leopards remained the better side despite the numerical disadvantage and their push to half the deficit paid off in the 41st minute when Llyod Wahome brought Marvin Omondi down in the area and the referee pointed to the spot. Ghanaian left back, Isaac Oduro showed his penalty conversion skills by sending Okello the wrong way. Lukooya would have leveled matters for Ingwe two minutes later but his header landed safely on Okello’s hands. Tusker withdrew Mathew Odongo at halftime for Peter Nzuki as Amos Asembeka was introduced in place of Edwin Lavatsa. Wahome redeemed himself in 59th minute, rising high to head Nzuki’s cross for Tusker’s third goal but their joy was shortlived as three minutes later, Isuzza pulled one back for Leopards after heading home Shikayi’s cross. A minute later, Ezekiel Odera thought he had restored parity for Leopards but his goal was correctly disallowed for using his arm. Experienced Eugene Asike was brought in for injured Yastin Omary who had hit the woodwork while vying for an aerial ball. Wahome would fully vindicate himself with a second goal in the 74th minute, tapping in a rebound from Adira, who had punched Shivachi’s thunderous free-kick back into play. Tusker held onto their lead until the final whistle to pick their second win of the season which lifted them from 14th to 12th with nine points. Click here for the latest political news