Public universities are in crisis as they lack funds to run activities, the National Assembly was told yesterday. Vice Chancellors Council chairperson Francis Aduol said the funding crisis is caused by poor funding and decline in self sponsorship programmes. He appeared before a joint Senate and National Assembly committees on education. Aduol said the cash crunch is to blame for the lack of remittance of statutory deduction for employees in the 31 public universities, which have been on strike for 43 days. The statutory deductions include pension component, sacco remittances, insurance remittances and late payment of contract lecturers. The universities are yet to remit Sh3.66 billion for pension components and Sh4 billion for sacco, insurance and other deductions. In the 2010-13 lecturers Collective Bargaining Agreement, the government paid Sh7.8 billion for salaries and house allowances. A pension balance of Sh1.27 billion is still unpaid. In the 2013-17 CBA, some Sh10 billion was given to the lecturers for the house allowance and basic salary. The Sh2.39 billion pension component is still unsettled. “The funds given to public universities by the exchequer is not enough for universities to workers. VCs end up prioritising the net salary payment and try to figure out how the other remittances will be reached,” Aduol said. “Parliament should be concerned about the way VCs run the institutions.” The VC’s council says the exchequer funding is supposed to cater for human resource and running university operations, but Aduol says the funds they receive is not enough. Contracted lecturers and allowances for internal university CBAs are paid out through money generated in the universities. Twenty-eight universities are yet to conclude internal CBA negotiations for the 2013-17. The universities are struggling to pay contracted lecturers. The government says it is unaware that the universities have not been remitting statutory deductions. Higher Education PS Japhet Ntiba said the ministry was told the payments made in the previous CBAs catered for the pension component. Statutory deduction ought to be remitted by the ninth day of each month. The funding crisis is further expected to deepen with the reduction in the number of students admitted in the public universities.