The PCEA will press fresh Sh46 million theft charges against its former moderator David Gathanju and two ex-officials. David Gathanju served as a moderator for the Presbyterian Church of Eastern Africa General Assembly between 2009 and 2015. He was on October last year charged with stealing Sh39 million. A further audit showed the church lost an additional Sh20 million. The forensic reports indicate the church also lost Sh7 million and a further Sh19 million in 2014. Gathanju was charged alongside Esther Wanjiru, Peter Mwangi, Stephen Muhoro and James Muiruri, all former church employees. They are said to have stolen the money at the PCEA headquarters in Nairobi’s South C Estate between January 2, 2016 and June 30 last year. Wanjiru and Muhoro were acquitted in January after the prosecution dropped the charges against them for lack of enough evidence. During the hearing of the case on Tuesday, the church, through its lawyer Kimamo Muchiri, told senior Principal Magistrate Stella Atambo it will amend the charge sheet after a further audit revealed the church lost more money. Muchiri said the church wants to rope in several banks in the suit. They colluded with the accused to steal the money. He declined to mention the banks. “Fraudulent accounts were opened in some of the banks by the accused where the money was siphoned,” Muchiri said. Prosecution Counsel Christine Mbevi said she will add more charges such as forgery. The church is no longer interested in settling the matter out of court as all efforts failed. Muchiri said attempts to have the matter settled flopped after the accused showed no interest. Despite numerous correspondences to the accused through their lawyer via calls, emails and text messages requesting negotiations, there was no feedback. “Even after the accused said they are willing to have the matter settled out of court, they gave ignored dialogue invitations,” Muchiri said. Lawyer Gibson Kamau Kuria, appearing for the church, applied for the adjournment of the case to give him time to familiarise himself with it. He said he had not yet been served with statements. Gathanju’s lawyers John Njuguna and Kimani Wakimaa said their client is ready for the case and a speedy trial. “My client is a church elder who has served the church for 35 years in different capacities. His reputation and integrity continues to be damaged and put in question everyday he comes to court. It is for this reason that he wants a speedy trial so he can prove his innocence,” Njuguna said. Danson Omari, representing Mwangi, said, “The burden of proof in any case solely rests with the state and prosecution, not the accused. Giving out the statements will be self-incriminating to the accused, which is contrary to the law.” He said the church and state refused to allow for dialogue when they pleaded for an out-of-court deal before the accused could take a plea. “We pursued for negotiation before the accused took plea but the state and the complainant were adamant that the plea must be taken. We should, therefore, not be blamed for the impasse.” The magistrate encouraged the parties to continue seeking an out-of-court settlement. The case will be mentioned on May 15.