Concerns have been raised over the implementation of the new curriculum even as the government begins phase two of teachers training next week. Stakeholders say the implementation has been sluggish due to poor training and lack of adequate materials. The government will train 160,000 teachers from next week after a similar number was trained in the first phase. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development CEO Julius Jwan said there has been a positive response in the three months the curriculum has been on a national pilot. Read: It’s all systems go for new curriculum Teachers said they hardly understood what is expected of them ahead of the roll out of the competence based curriculum. Private schools are mobilising resources to conduct their own training. According to Kenya Private Schools Association chairperson Mutheu Kasanga, no assessment has been conducted in any of the institutions. “Private schools are still in limbo in regards to the new curriculum. Most schools were unable to give an account on the progress of the implementation of the new curriculum to parents,” Matheu said. The curriculum is currently on its fourth month of nation piloting, with all the 28,000 primary schools countrywide involved. The second phase training targets teachers in grades 1, 2 and 3 ahead of roll out next year. During the training, teachers will share feedback on their experiences while interacting with the curriculum designs during the first term. Read: New learning system in disarray, lack of training, materials cited Jwan said the training will involve officials from KICD, Teachers Service Commission, Kenya Institute of Special Education, Kenya Education Management Institute and the Centre for Mathematics, Science and Technology Education in Africa. Speaking to the Star on phone yesterday, Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said teachers are yet to understand what is supposed to be taught. “Let the government do away with this new curriculum if it is not ready to put it to action,” Sossion said. “It’s better we remain with the 8-4-4 syllabus with some reforms than move to the new curriculum and collapse the whole education system.”  Click here for the latest political news