Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis caused laughter at a function in Tiaty with his dramatic order to his aides to get him a coat he had left in a chopper. The governor was addressing locals during the Tiaty MP William Kamket's homecoming ceremony as the chopper was taking off with other dignitaries. He had boarded the helicopter with Water CS Simon Chelugui, Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi, and DG John Mwaniki. The three were leaving for another function at the time Kiptis realised he had left his coat in the helicopter. "Get me my coat before that chopper flies off," he said amid laughter from those who attended the Saturday event. "Please, can someone run very fast and get me my coat inside that helicopter before it takes off," Kiptis said as he cut short his speech. The county boss said that since he had landed, he had no reason to hurry. "I had to take enough time with my people." Although Kiptis sounded serious with his order, it was not clear if someone really helped him to get back his court. Some of those at the event were heard saying that the coat must have contained some money, hence the county boss' reason to worry. Baringo governors, including Benjamin Cheboi who held the seat until August last year, have had their share of eventfue chopper rides. During the campaigns, Kiptis shocked residents when he landed at Chesongo primary school for a fundraiser only to contribute Sh30,000. Then Senator aspirant Simon Chelugui also disappointed an expectant crowd when he landed only to dish out Sh20,000. Read: Betting boss in chopper shells out just Sh20K "I can now afford a chopper for my campaigns not because I squandered public resources but through contributions from my staff, friends and partners." This was after the former governor’s friends and partners raised at total of Sh10million for his bid to retain the seat. He lost to Kiptis. More on this: I can now afford campaign chopper, Cheboi says after friends raise Sh10m Click here for the latest political news    