Four opposition politicians have asked Deputy President William Ruto to stop fueling politics of division and support the proposed referendum. The leaders claimed the deputy president has turned out to be the chief opponent of the Raila-Uhuru handshake because he thrives in division. Addressing residents in Ugunja on Saturday, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi said it was due topolitics of divi sion that Ruto rose to his current position. “Everyone knows Ruto has always opposed the voice of reason since coming into politics but this time around he will not succeed if he refuses to support the referendum,” Atandi said. Atandi the time of dividing Kenyans is over. Everyone should support changing constitution through a referendum to accommodate all communities. The MP said it was foolhardy for certain leaders close to the deputy president to thumb their chests threatening not to participate in a referendum. “I want to inform Aden Duale that Kenya will go on with the referendum whether he participates.  His Garissa Town constituency is very small,” Atandi said. He was accompanied by Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala, Sabot MP Caleb Hamisi and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Malala echoed Atandi’s sentiments, telling the deputy president that all Kenyans should unite for development. The Kakamega senator said just like he will not allow ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula to divide Luhyas, he won’t allow Ruto to di- vide Kenyans. Malala asked residents to believein Raila as he has never proposed  anything for selfish gain but for public benefit. Sabot MP Hamisi accused Ruto of not going with the majority over the referendum issue. He alleged that R uto has never supported anything good for the country since joining politics. “Why should anyone in his right senses support a government structure that has always threatened to plunge the country into chaos every election year, “ Hamisi wondered. The Sabot MP said if brave and wise leaders would not stand fi rmon the referendum its opponents would prevail. “I want to advise my friend the deputy president that if he wants to be the president of this country he should drop people like Murkomen and Duale. But if he wants to be the opposition leader let him embrace them,” Hamisi said. ODM secretary general Sifuna asked Jubilee Party to learn from ODM on how to speak with one voice. Sifuna asked the President Uhuru Kenyatta to deal with Duale and Murkomen in the same way they dealt with Wetangula when he refused to toe the line.