Nyeri KMTC students held demonstrations on Wednesday to protest plans to transfer the institution's principal Zipporah Njeru. They said the transfer, coming just a year after Njeru's appointment, was motivated by malice. The learners blamed the immediate former principal for instigating Njeru's transfer. Student leaders at the college said the principal has been good to the learners and is development-oriented, unlike her predecessor. "She is an approachable person. We know that there are cartels who want to remove her out," Benson Koech, a student representative, said. "We are being told that she is being transferred to Kuria." "We are not happy. Actually, if we had the means, we would have gone to Nairobi to the office of the President or the Deputy President to appeal the decision," Koech added. The former principal was demoted and replaced with Njeru after nine years at the helm. They claimed KMTC management wants to replace Njeru with the current Othaya KMTC principal. "We are prepared to strike for as long as it takes," the student leader added. "We are not going to class unless the principal comes and shows us that her transfer is cancelled," Wanyonyi Wanyama, a student, said. The students marched to Governor Mutahi Kahiga's office to seek his indulgence over the issue but he wasn't around. A legal adviser at Kahiga's office, however, told them the office will write a letter enumerating their grievances to the chairman of the KMTC board and the Health CS. He said the hiring or transfer of principals was a preserve of the health CS and not governors. "We cannot ignore your grievances, but we can only help you transmit the letter to the right offices otherwise the county government has no powers," the officer said. Other grievances raised by the students include delayed disbursement of HELB loans. Governor Mutahi said: "The striking students should understand that KMTC is under the national government but I will try to engage the board to ensure a permanent solution is found." Click here for the latest political news   