Church leaders have asked politicians to avoid circumstances that will put them in awkward situations. Led by Rt. Rev. Julius Karanu, who spoke on Friday at Kenneth Matiba's Murang'a funeral service, they said politicians must strive to be dedicated servant leaders whose supporters can emulate. "It is shameful for political leaders to put themselves in awkward situations, like getting caught in hotel rooms, while they ought to be setting better examples for others," he said at Ihura Stadium. See: [Photos] Uhuru, Raila lead mourners at Matiba's Murang's funeral service Karanu is the the Central Bishop of the Anglican Church Mt Kenya Diocese. His sentiments came after an unsettling video of a naked Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri, that police are looking into. Ndambiri said he fell for a trap by "a racket of criminals targeting politicians and those with deep pockets for extortion". Details: I was set up by extortionists, Peter Ndambiri says over nude video Karanu said leaders must always be accountable to the people they lead and that they should uphold standards of integrity that will not jeorpadise service delivery. "It is shameful when we seen people in hotels and speculation on social media. Whether it is extortion or anything else, why put yourselves in situations that will leave you fighting to redeem your political lives?" Citing the biblical times when leaders were tried by those they led, he said the current breed should also ask constituents to test them especially in the area of integrity. "Leadership is an influence and ability to inspire and instill confidence in others ... an ability to mobilise and coordinate resources for common good. We maintain that as leaders we must be accountable to people we lead." Several leaders joked about Ndambiri's troubles during the 5th Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega. They include Opposition leader Raila Odinga, Deputy President William Ruto, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. Ruto, who spoke at the closing ceremony on Thursday, said Governors should keep their deputies busy so they don't fall for the devil's tricks. "The kind of damage the devil can cause with an idle mind is great," he said. "Keep the devil from engaging idle minds in your offices because you have kept your deputies jobless ... This is really risky." More on this: The devil is a very bad man, Ruto says on Peter Ndambiri 'film' Click here for the latest political news