Deputy President William Ruto on Friday asked schools’ administration to stop forcing parents to contribute money for development. Ruto said schools should look for ways of raising such funds. He said the government rolled out the free education program me to lift the burden of school fees from parents. The DP said this at Murang’a high school where he presided over a prize giving day. “No student should be sent home to get money because the government has taken the responsibility of sponsoring pupils,” Ruto added. Ruto had said he would not visit the school last week after parents accused the administration of extorting money from them. He was initially supposed to preside over a fundraiser to expand learning facilities in the school where parents were required to pay Sh 40,000. Parents had early last month been notified to clear their contributions by March 24 as the school prepared for the fundraising. The deputy president however said in his opinion, the school only needs Sh 35 million to construct the facilities needed and contributed Sh15 million. Ruto also noted that the Ministry of Education will give the school an additional Sh20 million to ensure parents are not asked to give any more money. The school’s principal said the school requires a laboratory, a swimming pool, a new bus, a multi-purpose hall and more classrooms which he said are estimated to cost Sh 70 million. Parents have already contributed a total of Sh 20 million but a section have complained that the school’s administration imposed some wealthy parents to pass a resolution compelling them to contribute the money. “The government is aware of the development needs of this school and will assist in every way possible,” Ruto reiterated. Governor Mwangi wa Iria who led a contingent of local leaders in the event urged parents to not drag petty politics into education matters. “All stakeholders should agree on ways of developing the school without issues being taken out of context,” Wa Iria said. Click here for the latest political news 