Kenya Commercial Bank have introduced of winning bonus and granted their players two-year renewable contracts in a bid to motivate them win this year’s Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) women’s league. KCB currently top the national league log with eight points from three matches, closely followed by new comers DCI and champions Kenya Pipeline with seven and six points respectively. KCB team manager, Moses Kimani confirmed, the playing unit of 18 players have signed two-year renewable contracts and the company has at the same time introduced winning bonus with existing medical covers. “It is one of the kind gestures from the company. Of course with winning bonus at stake, the players will go out of their way to ensure they win their respective matches of the day,” said the former national team junior coach. “The renewable contract of two years should really push the players to perform even better. KVF allow clubs to have 22 registered players but we have 18 and we have a widow of four players. Unfortunately the widow to sign is closed and we will have to work with the current squad,” he added. Kimani said the existing squad have what it takes to challenge for trophy but remained cautious of their competitors. “We have started the season well as we are yet to lose a match. We remain hopeful of building on the current momentum going forward. The morale in the team is good and we can only hope for the best,” he said. Meanwhile, Nairobi Water’s Ruth Chelagat and Stella Kawos will be available for selection in the KVF third leg set for next month in Eldoret. Chelagat joined the bankers from the disbanded Nairobi Water and Kawos was fished direct from school. Kimani is optimistic the new players will catapult the side to a whole new level. “They are good players who I believe would add value to the current squad,” noted the official. The two players bring to eight, the a total of players recruited lately by the bankers. Others are—Lucy Mwanzia, Millicent Wanjala, Metrine Nafula, Lincy Jeruto, Eglay Kuloba and Nancy Mulonza. KCB finished third last season behind Kenya Prisons’ and eventual winners Pipeline.