Dennis Kitambi’s good run with AFC Leopards will come under scrutiny today when they face unpredictable Tusker at Kericho Green Stadium. From the time the Tanzanian assumed the head coach roles at the Den, albeit on interim basis, the 12-time Kenyan Premier League champions have had a 100 percent win record. However, Kitambi will be well aware that history massively leans on Tusker’s side. In their last 21 matches, the brewers have won 13, lost three and drawn five and they will be out to extend their dominance over Leopards. But Tusker have had a start to forget after winning just once in the seven matches played so far and the pressure to deliver is increasingly putting Sam Timbe on the spot. Tusker sit in a unfamiliar 15th spot despite an overhaul of the playing unit in pre-season, where a big number of their experienced players were shown the door. Tusker winger, Boniface Muchiri, believes they have a chance of silencing the inform Leopards and kickstart their fortunes. “Each team stands a chance of winning this match and we are prepared for them. We have had a bad start but that will not count. Our aim remains three points,” said Muchiri. While Tusker will be eyeing redemption, it will be a must-win situation for Leopards as they seek to keep tabs with leaders Gor Mahia. Proving that the good run under Kitambi has not been by fluke will be Leopards’ biggest inspiration. Leopards will heavily rely on their on-form striker Ezekiel Odera for goals. The former KCB talisman has had a terrific start of life at the den, scoring goals at will. He has four goals to his name, two shy of the league’s top scorer Elvins Rupia of Nzoia Sugar. A win for Leopards will move them to joint top with Gor Mahia at 19 points. Also today, bottom placed and hosts Zoo Kericho entertain debutants Wazito in an early kick off. Zoo have won just once in seven encounters and will be seeking for change of fortunes when they host Wazito, 12th on the log. Zoo head coach, Sammy Okoth, believes home advantage will boost their confidence heading into the encounter. “We got our first win at home and I believe this we will get our second. We prepared well for the match during the Fifa international break. Striker Nicholas Kipkirui will be raring to go after impressing for the U-23 national team during their tour of Uzbekistan. We know Wazito are eager to get their third win but we will give a good account of ourselves,” said Okoth.