Four helicopters from the Kenya defence forces have been dispatched to assist in evacuating more than 3,000 people marooned by floods in Malindi and Magarini sub-counties. This is after river Sabaki burst its banks four days ago. KDF divers have also been deployed to help in the rescue mission which begun at Garash.  A KDF soldier helps children to safety in Magarini during the rescue mission to save  more than 3000 flood victims who were marooned after river Sabaki broke its banks on April 26./ALPHONCE GARI Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi was forced to cut short his devolution conference in Kakamega to join the rescue mission. Read: Five Kilifi schools closed, 70,000 residents require relief food due to floods Already the rescue team, comprising of officers from the Kenya police and Kenya Red Cross has saved several elderly women and men and children to safe grounds. By Thursday evening over 300 people had been rescued and the mission is still going on.  A KDF soldier helps an elderly man to safety in Magarini during the rescue mission to save more than 3000 flood victims who were marooned after river Sabaki broke its banks on April 26./ALPHONCE GARI Speaking moments before flying to the affected areas in Magarini, Kingi said the county had been on the ground providing food and non-food items but was now focused to move those trapped to safety.  KDF soldiers help evacuate  Magarini residents during the rescue mission to save  more than 3000 flood victims who were marooned after river Sabaki broke its banks on April 26./ALPHONCE GARI He thanked KDF General Samson Mwathethe and the Kenya Police for their support in evacuating the flood victims. “The disaster committee is on the ground we are working with the national government, KDF to save the situation the floods are as a result of rain from up country,’’ he said. In Malindi constituency areas of Madunguni and Malimo of Kakuyuni ward, rescued families are camping at Kakuyuni primary school. Currently, the county government together with well-wishers is in the process of supplying relief food.  Click here for the latest political news  