Nairobi
Securities Exchange is set to roll out a digital campaign to attract youthful
traders into investing in capital markets. Speaking to the Star, NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo said they are
planning to come up with a mobile app which will break down complex
capital market information for ordinary Kenyans. "Kenya
has made great strides in terms of mobile phone technology and penetration. We will  leverage on these gains to launch the NSE app
and SSD code where users will access simplified information on how to invest in
capital market,’’ said Odundo. Last
year, Kenya issued the first ever government bond traded exclusively on mobile
phone, a move that attracted investors from the bottom economic pyramid. Dubbed
M-Akiba, investors in this bond received their first dividends via M-Pesa last
week. Various tech firms and banks including NIC have products that enable customers to trade in
shares on their mobile phones. Others include SBG Securities which launched M-share that allow investors to buy and sell shares directly on the NSE Although
he did not give timelines on when the app will be launched, NSE’s digital
campaign is seen as a wider plan by security exchanges in Africa to leverage on
technology to grow the capital market. Kenya will from Thursday this week host the Africa Security Exchange
Seminar, bringing together 28 stock exchanges in the continent. Odundo
said Kenya is honoured to host the seminar which will bring
together the best brains in the African financial sector and financial technology
space. "We
are bringing capital markets home. Expect top-notch insights on capital market
investment as we prepare investors for greater growth in the sector through
technology," said Odundo. The
two day event, slated for Thursday and Friday this week will run under the theme Adaptive innovation as
a lever for growth and sustainable development of African financial market. The
seminar is coming at the time when reports are showing that foreigners are
controlling the continent’s capital market, an aspect attributed to poor knowledge
of the market by local investors Although foreigners' level of
participation at the NSE has been dropping since mid-last
year, they still control the market at more than 50 per cent. According to the latest soundness report
by Capital Market Authority (CMA), foreigners’ participation at NSE dropped to
49.14 in June last year but has since regained to 55.69 per cent. Their dominance has however
slowed significantly from a whopping 79.81 per cent in January last
year. The same scenario is replicated across the continent, with almost a half of the companies which make up the JSE’s Top 40 are owned
by foreigners