 More than one
half of American voters who did not want Donald Trump elected President are
still struggling to come to terms with the reality up to today. The one thing
that assures most of these Americans that there will be a semblance of America
once Trump is either booted out office through impeachment or losses in the 2020
polls is the Constitution and the checks and balances in place.  No one elected President is able to
irreversibly damage the country, even by inflicting maximum pain and suffering
as Trump is doing. The fundamentals of the country will remain intact albeit
shaken. It will take
the next president, for example, to try and restore America’s storied
institutions such as the FBI to their former glory and ditto the country’s
image and standing globally. This is because
Trump is all guns blazing in trying to besmirch and destroy faith in these
institutions simply because they are busy looking into his monkey business in
Russia and elsewhere, not only in connection with his erstwhile 2016 campaign,
but also his prior business practices as well. Observers suspect there are many
a dead bodies and only Michael Cohen, Trump’s “personal lawyer”, who
authorities obtained a warrant and raided his home and office in search of
evidence of criminality, knows where they are buried. If and when
Cohen leads authorities to the bodies, Trump will be toast. But the country
will remain intact notwithstanding what happens to Trump because the
fundamentals are strong to withstand his shenanigans. While Trump is
the threat to American democracy and way of life, in Kenya, tribalism,
electoral theft, corruption and a resurgence of impunity are not only the major
threats to our democracy, but also the country’s continued survival. Again, most
Americans are not worried as much about the country remaining intact after
Trump but our beloved country cannot remain intact or  as lovely as it has been at the end of Uhuru’s
term unless we, for the last time, take head on and eradicate these combined
evils of tribalism, electoral theft, corruption and a resurgence of impunity. In her
interview of Charles Rubia, Citizen TV’s Anne Kiguta asked the veteran
politician and Saba Saba co-architect why he and the late Kenneth Matiba
decided to challenge Moi and his one-party state rule. Rubia’s response was
simple: They knew it was time. That’s what
visionaries do. They see far and take action to effect that what they see, be
it change or simply readiness to face what it is. In shaking
Raila’s hand, Uhuru is demonstrating, like, Rubia, Jaramogi Oginga and Matiba,
he’s looking to the future and seeing a better Kenya, where no one man or tribe
dominates the country. Unlike President Daniel Moi, Uhuru has a far better and smoother
pathway to effect the needed change and, with Raila on his side, this is as
good as done. We’re here
talking about passing a new referendum to address the aforementioned evils once
for all. We anxiously wait
for that day and pray it shall come to pass by the grace of God or Allah in the
case of our Muslim brothers and sisters. Samuel N. Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States