Kenya Lionesses will face Argentina in the Women’s Sevens series qualifier quarter final today in Hong Kong. The match will be played at 6:36am. The other quarter finals will see Wales facing South Africa, Belgium taking on Brazil as China battle it out with Papua New Guinea. Kenya put up a sterling performance on Day One, topping Pool ‘X’ with three wins. They stunned South Africa 24-12 in their final pool game and recorded a 17-5 win over Papua New Guinea and a 42-0 demolition of Mexico. It was the Lionesses first ever win over the their African rivals after coming close in the past two seasons. Siniada Aura gave Kenya the lead with a well taken try as Janet Owino missed the conversion as Kenya led 5-0. The African champions soon responded with an unconverted try by Nadine Roos before Janet Okello received the ball deep in her half and flat-footed the South Africans, racing clear to see Kenya retake the lead, Doreen Remour converting to give the Lionesses a 12-5 lead at the break. On resumption, a patient build up by the Lionesses saw Aura with the narrowest of room to operate in but she used her electric pace to sprint clear to score under the posts, the converted try putting the Lionesses 19-5 up. Okello killed off the game as a contest with her try that took the score to 24-5 before the South Africans landed a late consolation try courtesy of Phumeza Gadu. Kenya had sealed qualification to the quarters with a 17-5 win over Papua New Guinea and a 42-0 demolition of Mexico in their second pool match. Try scorers for Kevin Wambua’s charges against the Pacific islanders were Sheila Chajira, Remour and skipper Philadelphia Olando with Janet Owino adding a conversion. The Lionesses were rampant in their second match against Mexico. Celestine Masinde, Chajira scored two tries each with Okello, Remour, scoring one try each. Owino added four conversions in the rout. Kenya led 21-0 at the interval. Elsewhere, fresh from finishing second at the Vancouver Sevens last month, Shujaa will be seeking to go one place better when the when the Hong Kong Sevens starts today. Kenya open their campaign against Canada at 2:54pm in Pool ‘B’. The two sides met in Dubai in December with Innocent Simiyu’s charges winning 29-15. Kenya will then face Spain and Australia tomorrow to complete their preliminary matches ahead of the knockout matches on Sunday. Click here for the latest political news