The government could be losing billions of shillings in tax evasion, as revealed in the ongoing crackdown on illicit brews. Kenya Revenue Authority officials taking part in the crackdown said assorted wine from South Africa nabbed at Kasarani had fake KRA stickers. Genuine stickers should have detailson the bottle contents. Those scanned at the Kasarani swoop had no such information. The exact amount of money lost in tax evasion will be revealed at the end of the crackdown. The revelations were first made at the TusTax wines and spirits outlet. The multi-agency 100-day crackdown has been going on for five days. Several joints attendants were arrested during the raid. National Authority for the Campaign Against Drug Abuse officials, KRA, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Public Health, the county government and security officials are conducting the raid. TusTax owner was asked to close down until he secures a licence. A Lebanese operating a club at Thika Road Mall was also arrested during the operation. The owner had assorted wine and other drinks and had not paid tax. The owner of a hotel where drinks from outside the country were being sold will appear before the KRA. Nacada senior programmes manager Alex Njeru said shisha is also smoked in the club at midnight. A swoop was also conducted at Kasarani’s Sportsview Hotel. At the hotel, food and beverage manager Patrick Kahoro was put to task for allowing revellers to take alcohol as they watched their children swimming. Kahoro was given until today to ensure the smoking zone is clearly marked and set up away from people who don’t smoke. Those who don’t smoke are affected the most, Njeru said. Monaco Club, also in Kasarani, was closed indefinitely for operating at odd hours. Also unearthed is the fact that some outlets have two licences - for day and night. Ten people arrested will appear in court. Since the crackdown started, more than 30 people have been arrested. Njeru denied that his team is ruining the Easter holiday mood. In some instances, club and joint proprietors tried to stop the crackdown. Apart from tax evasion and violating operating hours guidelines, the raiders also looked out for hygiene. Dirty clubs were given two weeks to clear the mess. Outlets with washrooms next to kitchens were also asked to make changes.