A doctor pushing for the legalisation of FGM told a court on Thursday that she was tired of "unending expert witnesses". Tatu Kamau told a Machakos court that she had been receiving affidavits from these witnesses by email almost every day. It has become difficult to respond to them, she said when the case was mentioned, noting they have been sent since she filed her petition. "I
don't know when this will stop because I am beginning to get tired." Related: Pro-FGM doctor asks court to stop public discussions Presiding Judge David Kimei was quick to inform the petitioner that
she ought to have prepared for such as the case is of much public interest. "It's okay for interested parties to file affidavits since we are still
in the pre-trial process. This is a matter of public interest so we cannot
lock out anyone interested in the matter," Kimei said. The lawyers of the respondents and the nine
interested parties demanded to know whether one Arap Koech will be seeking legal
representation. Koech is the 10th Interested party in the case and is supporting the doctor. The lawyers wanted to know how they will get him to reply their
affidavits. Koech, an elderly man, caused laughter when he emphasised that he was capable of engaging the lawyers personally so he will not seek any legal representation. He gave them an email address by which to reach him. The judge had warned Koech that the court was not a
place of public opinion but one of strict procedures. “I want Koech to be guided well because whatever he is submitting now is
going into the record," he said. The parties were given 21 days to file their responses to affidavits
and written submissions on whether the case should be heard by a three-judge
bench. The case will be mentioned on June 11. A group of Maasai men and women camped outside the court on Wednesday and today, waving placards with messages against the illegal rite of passage. Sofia Leteipan, a lawyer with Equality Now who is one of the interested parties, told journalists outside the court that they were determined
to win the case. Leteipan noted Female Genital Mutilation is a violation of human rights so it should not be permitted. Other interested parties who are against the petition
include Amref Health Africa, Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida), Center for
Rights Education and Awareness Africa, Katiba Institute and the Office of the
Director of Public Prosecution. Others are Samburu Girls Foundation, Msichana
Empowerment and Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (Kewopa). Related: How practices and meaning of FGM are changing in Tanzania Click here for the latest political news