Most employers are not giving meal allowances to their employees, despite receiving tax relief towards this initiative, the Star has found out. The 2014 amendment to the Finance Act allows employers to give employees Sh4,000 monthly, or to Sh48,000 worth of meals per year tax free. According to the act, the employer must be able to demonstrate they provided the meals provided, their cost and location of consumption, rendering the new solution quite instrumental. Initially the government was only offering tax relief on food given to employees earning less than Sh29,316 per month. A Twitter survey conducted by the Star showed that most workers are not getting meals from employers. It is however optional for employers to provide meals to employees but the tax benefit accrues if it is taken. The poll attracted 546 participants with 77 per cent saying they have never received this allowance while 14 per cent are not sure. Only a paltry nine per cent indicated that they were receiving meal allowance. Federation of Kenya Employers disputed the poll findings, stating that most of their members provide food to their employees. "Many employers provide actual meals and staff-run canteens. Some pay an allowance. Your suggested low response is in my view, not a true reflection of what is on the ground,'' said FKE executive director Jacqueline Mugo. In an effort to help employers comply with the Act, Sodexo Kenya, an offshoot of global benefits and rewards firm Sodexo rolled out a food application that link companies to nearest food joints where their employees can redeem food at a click of button Dubbed M-Kula,the service is available on IOS and Android platforms and allows customers to pay for meals delivered to the office. Sodexo Kenya CEO Neil Ribeiro said employees who enrol for the service are able to save up to Sh14,000 each year attributable to tax exemptions and discounts from partner food outlets. “We settled on digital lunch vouchers because food is a very important component in the labour market yet it is often ignored. Food helps drive productivity and motivation and ultimately a company’s bottom line,’’ said Neil Ribeiro. A recent study by International Labour Organisation (ILO) for instance link lack of food and poor nutrition amongst employees to a decline in productivity especially in developing nations. "Hundreds of millions of workers face an undesirable eating arrangement every day. Many go hungry; many get sick, sooner or later. The result is a staggering blow to productivity and health,’’ Christopher Wanjek the author of ILO study said. Another study conducted by Sodexo in Kenya last year documents the impact of lunch provision on staff’s productivity. In the study, after KenPoly Manufacturers started providing lunch, productivity went up by between seven and 12 per cent. Three months after introducing lunch for staff, Subati Flowers recorded a drop in absenteeism from nine per cent to 4 per cent. The average number of days off also dropped from 2.8 days per sickness to 1.2 days. 