The family of the late Winnie Mandela has accused the South African government of being hypocritical for praising her after death. In a eulogy read by Mandela's daughter Princess Zenani Mandela-Dlamini, the family said that Winnie had been painted so negative by the society and thus praising her at this moment will not redeem the image. The 59-year old told mourners that the government and the media had smeared lies against her mother through extreme cruelty that robbed her rightful legacy. "Her's is a unique story in history, we have appreciated what she meant for the World but we want to let you know that my mother despite all the lies smeared against her was ready to challenge the lies but time did not allow," she said. "However, we are happy that after her death truth has been coming out one by one,' she added. Read:  'Raw emotion' as Winnie Mandela film airs in South Africa Zezani said Mandela's family took issue with how a former police commissioner mistreated Winnie only to tell the truth after her death. "The pain inflicted on her lives forever even after her death. Praising her now in her death show how hypocritical we are as a nation. We could have told her the praises while she was alive," Zezani said. Zezani said it is surprising that the same moral standards that Winnie was expected to display, her male counterparts were not. "The Anti-apartheid regime has been misinterpreted to mean it was a man's triumph but we want to remind the world that it was not a man's struggle and triumph, she rose against a might of a nuclear state to bring peace to South Africa," she said. Zezani was nearly born in prison, as Winnie Mandela was arrested close to her birth in 1959 and when she was four her father was sent to prison, where he would stay for the next 27 years. Not until 1974, when she was 16 years old, could she visit him. Zezani said her family has been comforted and shielded by the love people have showed them. "She kept the memories of our father alive. As a nation and a continent we also have a chance to be beautiful and stand for that which is true to humanity," she said. Also read: Winnie Mandela's funeral: All you need to know  Click here for the latest political news  