Fourteen people have been arrested in the Mt Elgon region since police launched a manhunt for the gang that has killed 35 residents. However, gang leader Timothy Kitai, alias Cheprakach, is still at large. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Bungoma county commissioner James Kianda said 14 of the 17 gang members have been arrested, mostly in Uganda. Those remaining at large include Cheprakach's younger brother, Ndiwa Kitai. “Our officers are almost zeroing down on the leader, Cheprakach,” Bungoma county commissioner James Kianda said. A police source who sought anonymity said Cheprakach and Ndiwa have shifted base and been involved in robberies in Amagoro, Busia county, and lwakahakha, Bungoma county. “The guy has been mysterious. First we traced him to Uganda together with his brother, but now a spate of robberies in lwakhakha and Amagoro point to cartridges used by his same gun,” said the police source attached to DCI. The police source said in one of the incidents, Cheprakach shot an AP officer during the robbery. This comes even as the county security team said the operation in Mt Elgon has been a success and life is getting back to normal. LAND CONFLICTS Kianda said the government has split the operation into four phases to ensure a long-lasting solution. He said they first hunted the gang behind the attacks, which he said was successful. To tame the land conflicts that catalyse violence, 48 officers from the Lands ministry have surveyed and allocated 300 plots of the troubled Chepyuk scheme to the rightful owners. “Our officers discovered that most people were in the wrong plots and some encroached government land, which was the main cause of conflict,” Kianda said. By the end of May, the team will have completed all its work and issued title deeds. The affected areas include Chepyuk, Chengwoyo and Emia locations. The commissioner said another phase is reconciliation, whereby families that had the relatives killed are conciliated with the killers. “Our chiefs have been holding over four public barazas a week, which has involved public reconciliation among families to return life to normalcy,” Kianda said. Elders from the different communities have been brought on board to help seal the peace pacts. Kianda said the government has made a deal with Telkom and Safaricom, who had already constructed telephone boosters in the affected areas. This follows cries from residents of lack of telephone network, hindering their ability to call police every time attacks occur, making the gangs have a field day. Kianda said the county has made a deal with the national government to expand the road network. The county government has also embarked on planting of new forests cover in areas worst hit by the Shamba system that has now been banned.