The legal battles involving the poll agency commissioners escalated yesterday. A case was filed seeking to block the government from disbanding the IEBC. Activist Okiya Omtatah, in a new application, sued the National Assembly, Attorney General Paul Kihara and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. He is seeking to restrain them from making any move that may cripple IEBC operations. The commission was dealt a blow after three commissioners resigned on Monday. They are Consolata Maina, Paul Kurgat and Margret Mwachanya. Their exit came three days after chairman Wafula Chebukati suspended chief ezecutive Ezra Chiloba. Omtatah wants the court to stop Parliament and the AG from interfering with the affairs of the three members still in office. They are Chebukati, Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu. He says the move by the government to withdraw their security or any other benefits of the office of a commissioner of the IEBC will be unlawful. “The three remaining commissioners are properly in office and the commission as it is, is lawfully constituted.” Omtatah further says legislation requiring the commission to have at least five members cannot overturn an express provision that the minimum number of members allowed per commission is three. “It is in the public interest to have a small and lean commission of only three members.” Omtatah says the remaining three members have a right to be protected. “They cannot be removed from office since none of them has done anything to meet the threshold for removal of commissioners.” Following the resignation of Maina, Kurgat and Mwachanya, Omtatah went to cour to have them formally resign. He says their resignation is not a basis in law for the removal of commissioners who don’t resign. The circumstances in which the three commissioners resigned demonstrate they quit to ground the commission to frustrate the ongoing audit. The audit aims to reveal the use of some Sh60 billion public money, which Parliament allocated to the IEBC for the 2017 general election and fresh presidential election.