Was the speech of Raila Odinga at the devolution conference done in collaboration with State House? Corridors is informed ministries were asked to submit points from which President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former Prime Minister would construct their addresses. In addition, it is whispered that Uhuru and Raila may have exchanged notes on what each would tackle at the conference. The speeches were so synchronised that the team that creates social media graphics promptly amplified the specific parts of the speech as soon as Raila read them. Just goes to show how far the March 9 handshake is shaping government thinking. ***** Did a Woman Representative from a northeastern county just want to be elected then disappear? Corridors has been told since the woman was elected in August, she has yet to step in the county, let alone to be seen on the floor of the House contributing or representing her electorate. Residents are questioning what could have happened to the Jubilee legislator who promised heaven on earth during campaigns. “We need to know her whereabouts. Her silence and absence is worrying. Most importantly, we want to see our mama county on the ground,” some residents were heard saying last week during market day. ***** Even before the Supreme Court pronounces itself on Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi’s appeal against the nullification of his election, those who want to run for the seat have started campaigning. A top government official said to have his eyes on the seat has hit the campaign trail. Our mole familiar to the behind-the-scenes plans told Corridors the official, in conjunction with another man, has planned a series of political meetings with clan elders and professionals at a city hotel next week to seek their endorsement. However, some elders expressed apprehension about the suitability of the candidate, fearing the fate that befalls the current governor, whom they endorsed, might befall him too. ***** A recently appointed national government official, who has been posted to Samburu county, is said to be revoltingly full of himself. He chooses people he should meet in his office. A source at the county has whispered to Corridors that recently, he sent away residents who were protesting against insecurity in Baragoi. When journalists sought answers from the official, he asked his secretary to throw them out of his office. Other junior administration officers are lamenting that it is becoming hard to work with the man.