International Tennis Federation (ITF) President David Haggerty has backed Kenya to host Women Tennis Association (WTA) and Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) tournaments in future once the ITF East African Training Centre is complete. Haggerty, who is in the country to commission the construction of the training centre at Moi, Kasarani, said Kenya stood a chance of hosting either of the global tournaments in future once the centre is complete. Flanked by Kenya Tennis (KT) President James Kenani, Confederation of African Tennis (CAT) President Tarak Cherif and The East Africa region Tennis president Patrick Gichira, Haggerty praised the move by Kenya to create a regional training base to nurture talent. He promised to disclose the amount his office is willing to give towards the success of the project soon. “I am happy to be in Kenya for the first time and elated too to open the East African Training Centre for the 18 and under. This is a fantastic way for Kenya to reach other nations and help grow the sport and unearth talents in the continent,” he said. The ITF boss added: “With this centre ready in five years time, Kenya stands a big chance of being the first African country to host the WTA and ATP. My office is willing to support this initiative financially. I have met several players and administrators and I am happy they are passionate and ready to take the game to the next level.” While welcoming the global boss to Kenya, Kenani said the centre would aid more Kenyan players to take part in international tournaments. He also revealed that the project will be build in five phases. “We are happy to host the president for the first time in Kenya since tennis was introduced in this country. This centre is set to mould players to meet the international standards which will guarantee them a places in the tournaments for global ranking. It is also a reprieve for the players who play in the private and expensive courts. We have planned to do it in phases and I am happy the government has promised Sh30 million for Phase One. We are also in negotiation with several cooperates to partner us.” The centre, which is set to train players in the 18 and under age category from the East Africa region is estimated to cost of Sh1 billion. The project was allocated a 10 acre piece of land at Kasarani by the government. The space will accommodate 24 courts which meet the requirements of ITF and an administration block.