Water rationing will continue because the volume at Ndakaini Dam has not increased despite heavy rains, Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company has said. NCWSC acting managing director Nahashon Muguna said only little rains have been experienced in the Aberdare and Mt Kenya region, the catchment areas for the rivers feeding the dam. Ndakaini Dam is the main reservoir supplying 84 per cent of Nairobi's water needs. “The level has not increased at all since the rains began. It is still below 42 per cent. City residents will have to bear with us,” Muguna said on Tuesday. He was responding to concerns raised by MCAs about continued rationing despite heavy rains countrywide. Muguna appeared before the water and sanitation committee of the county assembly alongside water executive Larry Wambua. The country has experienced heavy rains over the last one month, causing floods and destruction of property in various parts of the capital. Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok appealed to the company to consider easing rationing in slums and Eastlands, saying residents have borne the brunt of rationing for long “It is not enough for estates to receive water for a few hours once a week. You need to reconsider this,” Imwatok, also the Makongeni MCA, said. Most city estates receive water supply once or twice in a week. South B, South C, Langata and Nairobi West estates receive supply for the least number of days. The Central Business District, hospitals and airports receive uninterrupted supply because they cannot operate without water. “All public health facilitates and schools are not affected by the rationing programme," Muguna said. Nairobi requires about 750,000 cubic metres per day. At full capacity, Ndakaini Dam can only supply 550,000 cubic metres. Only 400,000 cubic metres is supplied at 42 per cent. Water shortage has forced some residents to seek services of vendors, with the commodity selling for between Sh20 and Sh80 for a 20-litre jerican in most estates. City Hall, in partnership with the Ministry of Water, has undertaken the drilling of 40 boreholes for Sh200 million to improve water supply. Governor Mike Sonko said the county will sink a borehole in each of the 85 wards. Already, the county has allocated Sh3 million to each ward for the project. The allocation was approved in the supplementary budget two weeks ago. Miguna cited the Sh6.8 billion Northern Water Collector Tunnel Project in Murang’a, saying it will provide a lasting solution to the perennial water shortage in the city. The project is expected to be complete by June next year. “The tunnel will increase water supply to Nairobi by 140, 000 cubic metres per day,” Muguna said. The MD also revealed that the company is owed Sh210 million by the county government, a situation he said has affected operations of the firm. But CEC Wambua promised to follow up with the county treasury to ensure the money is remitted to the firm.    