Declining water levels in Ndakaini  are not caused by construction of the Northern Collector Tunnel, the Athi Water Services Board has said. Acting CEO Michael Thuita yesterday told the Star the dam level is not rising as much as it should, despite heavy rains. The dam is just 30 per cent full, Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company acting technical director Lucy Njambi said yesterday. Thuita said the two-year-long drought contributed to the low level, but not the tunnel construction. “This drought has depleted the aquifers that recharge the rivers that feed the dam. Therefore, the ongoing rains have to contribute to aquifers filling and then increase river flows,” he said. The Sh6.8 billion tunnel project is only 35 per cent complete. About 4.5km of 11.7km of the tunnel are complete. The tunnel intially faced strong opposition from Murang’a residents and opposition political leaders who expressed fears the project would deplete underground and cause earthquakes. ODM boss Raila Odinga said it would turn five counties into deserts. The NAWASC says water rationing will continue until Ndakaini dam levels rise significantly. This has raised questions considering the heavy rains pounding much of the country and causing massive flooding. However, the catchment area of Ndakaini dam— the Aberdares and other regions — have not yet been receiving sufficient rainfall. Acting director of the Kenya Meteorological Department Peter Ambenje told the Star the region has been receiving good rains and the dam level may rise. “One of the stations got 88mm of rain within 24 hours,” he added. Ndakaini dam can store 70,000,000 cubic metres at full capacity. It is 2,041 meters above sea level. The dam is 65 meters deep. It produces 430,000 cubic metres daily, about 84 per cent of total supply to Nairobi residents. The dam’s catchment area measures 75 square kilometres. It includes Kimakia and Gatare Natural Forests in the Aberdare Ranges.The main rivers draining into the Dam from are Thika, Githika and Kayuyu.