“I love you.” What the hell? We met barely 48 hours ago. This is too weird. I get up in all my naked glory and turn to where I had seen someone. It’s actually not a human but a monkey observing us. I point him out to Mike and he laughs. “He’s learning a few tricks,” he says, wrapping his arms around me. “Well, he’s learning from the best,” I say. I turn and give him a hug. I feel so safe with him. “You really know your stuff,” I continue. “With most guys, going down on you, one has to fake it to get it over and done with. But not with you... You make me come over and over again.” “I don’t put in all that effort for just anybody,” he says. “I’m cranking it up for you.” He kisses me lightly on my brow and says, “I’m going to make you happy.” I’m definitely getting punked. Yet… Somehow, I believe him. I should allow myself to enjoy this. And I will. The next few hours are intoxicating. We talk. Make love. Talk some more. Order room service. Make love. Fall asleep. Make love some more. It’s easy. It’s romantic. It’s very laid back. I notice though that I talk more than he does. He has so many questions. What kind of guy I want. What my deal breakers are. I patiently answer all his questions but I still don’t know that much about him. “Do you feel like a massage?” I ask at some point, going through the spa brochure in the room. The treatments look good and I could do with some pampering. “If you get a massage won’t you be so relaxed that you’ll fall asleep?” he asks. “No…” I say. “We’ll make love again?” he wants to know. “Yes,” I say with a laugh. He’s insatiable! I must say it’s flattering when a man can’t keep his hands off you. I tell him as much as I playfully punch his shoulder. “Do you know the track Tap Out?” he asks. He’s referring to a hip hop tune by the Rich Gang. Yes. I’m familiar with it. “What about it?” I ask. “Well, I won’t stop until you tap out,” he responds. If you watch wrestling or martial arts, then you’ll be familiar with this term. In essence, this man is saying that he will not stop making love to me until I can’t take it anymore. Oh lawd! He starts singing in my ear… She got the million dollar Million dollar, ooh ooh ooh She got that million dollar Million dollar, ooh ooh ooh And all I wanna do is touch it Touch it, touch it, ooh ooh ooh Make her tap out Tap out, tap out, tap out, tap out And I’mma make her tap out Tap out, tap out, tap out, tap out The effect that this is having on my body is madness. I have never been in this state of arousal before. My nipples are hard and he hasn’t even touched them yet. My panties are soaked. My breathing is getting laboured. All this from him just singing in my ear. Well, I guess someone referring to your secret garden as his million-dollar plaything will get any girl turned on.