Nairobi county has not been able to meet its revenue targets from single business permits. According to Fiscal Strategy Paper 2018 the revenue performance from the Single Business Permits (SBPs) collected was Sh1.79 billion as opposed to the target of Sh3.6 billion. The low returns was blamed on undercharging based Jambo pay, an e-payment platform, and slow pace of devolution of this stream to the sub counties. “This was a marginal decline of Sh15 million from the previous financial year 2015/2016 where a total of sh. 1.79 billion was collected,” read the report. Revenue collected from SBPs at the end of the first half of 2017/2018 was Sh378.9 million, 10 per cent of the annual target of Sh3.6 billion. Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia on Friday told the Star that there was a lot of underpayment in this sector. " People were paying less than the amount required for the SBPs. This was a indeed a set back in the performance but now we will ensure that the business owners will pay the exact amount required to get the permits," he said. High default rate on payments and weak enforcement mechanisms were also blamed for the slow performance of SBPs. However, the county government will conduct an enterprise and business census to clean and update the existing database and enact a Business Licensing Act so as to improve on small businesses. This act will ensure all business operations are covered by the Act and will separate unified licenses and enhance enforcement to seal off revenue collection leakages. "The government wants to standardise where by instead of having calendar period where by people renew their license after a period of time, we have an annually duration. This way it will be systematic and give business owners moderate time to get the fee required," Mbatia said. Mbatia, who is also ward rep for Kariobangi South, also said payment through installments will be introduced to allow business operators to pay fees thrice within the given period. "We are mindful that some business owners cannot meet to pay the full required fee at once and by introducing installments it will allow them to plan on payment," he said. The Single Business Permits (SBPs) are issued for enterprises under The City of Nairobi (Licensing of Premise and Traders By-Laws 2007, that wish to operate within the limits of Nairobi City. Finance executive Danvas Makori gave property and business owners in Nairobi until March 31 to pay for their licenses and rates. Makori said those who will fail to beat the deadline will have to bear the burden of a three per cent interest per month which will be imposed on them. “And this year, let me make it very clear that there shall be no waivers because people have been waiting after the 31 that we shall give them waivers. We shall stick to the deadline,” he said. Makori said they will not hesitate to seek legal action to auction property whose owners have defaulted or use other enforcement mechanisms to ensure defaulters pay up. Only 43 per cent of businesses had paid for the unified business permit as of March 23, a figure he said was too low. 