Employers oppose the government’s proposal to raid their coffers to fund its ambitious universal healthcare project. Universal healthcare is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. The others are low-cost housing, food security and manufacturing. Yesterday, the Star exclusively reported the government plans to require employers to match the National Hospital Insurance Fund contributions of their employees. The Federation of Kenyan Employers yesterday said that move will increase the cost of doing business and could push many firms out of the Kenyan market. FKE executive director Jacqueline Mugo said discussions on financing “a noble vision” of universal healthcare must be structured and involve all players. She said this would ensure government projects do not ruin the economy and drive out investors. "The amendments proposed are not miscellaneous but substantial. They have wide-ranging impact on management of the labour market and cannot be sneaked in through the omnibus bill,” she protested. The proposed policy changes are to be implemented through radical amendments to the NHIF Act 1998, targetted in the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments No. 2 ) Bill of 2018. Mugo said the proposed changes mean employers will pay twice for their employees’ health insurance cover because most already have private coverage. Many workers do not use their NHIF scheme, she said. "Employees contribute to NHIF but are not utilising it because they have better healthcare through private insurance schemes to which we pay as employers,” Mugo said. "What it [the amendments] means is that employers would be contributing to a national kitty and still having to provide private healthcare schemes.” The proposed policy change will also kick out employers and employees’ representatives from the NHIF board. The government, through separate changes to the law, has begun removing FKE and Cotu from the board of trustees of the National Social Security Fund. The FKE has been separately identified for removal from the board of Higher Education Loans Board.