   Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya was on Wednesday shouted down as he addressed a crowd during Raila Odinga's tour of Kakamega town. The governor ran into the hostile crowd while in the company of colleagues Hassan Joho and Charity Ngilu, Senator Cleophas Malala and MP Elsie Muhanda. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna was also present. The leaders had accompanied Raila for a tour of the town after the former PM had delivered a speech at the just ended Devolution Conference at Kakamega High School. The tour is seen as a plan to test the ground after Raila's handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. Oparanya had previously declared his interest to run for presidency in 2022. Oparanya said that he
has been in ODM throughout and he is committed to strengthening the party ahead
of the next general elections. "I've been a member of ODM since it was formed and I'm committed to strengthening the party ahead of 2022," Oparanya said. He then reiterated his intention to run for the country's top seat. "Wacha hiyo [spare us that]," the crowd roared back. The crowd then chanted Joho for 2022. The chanting went on forcing Oparanya to cut short his speech and handover the microphone to Raila.    who
has declared to run for the presidency in 2022 ran into a hostile crowd that disrupted
his speech in Kakamega town on Wednesday.  Their
convoy left Kakamega high school where Raila delivered a keynote address on
devolution at the fifth governors’ summit and headed to town in what observers
sees as a plan by ODM to test the ground after the famous handshake between
Raila and President Kenyatta that caused implosions in NASA coalition. After the convoy snaked
through Kenyatta Avenue and Cannon Awori street, it stopped at KFA to address traders
who gathered. Joho and Malala addressed the crowd and when Oparanya’s turn
came, he addressed the gathering before inviting Oparanya. Oparanya said that he
has been in ODM throughout and he is committed to strengthening the party ahead
of the next general elections. He then told the crowd
that he had declared to run for the top seat on ODM in 2022. It was at this
point that the crowd roared back in Swahili, wacha hiyo. (spare us that one). The crowd then started chanting
Joho for 2022 disrupting his speech for the better part. The crowd shouted, Joho
anytime Oparanya mentioned 2022 until he handed the microphone to Raila.  The crowd also demanded
that Raila explained the handshake deal and the plight of deported NRM General Miguna Miguna. Raila likened the deal with Uhuru to a father who leaves for hunting when the children
are still a sleep. "People should only ask about what i returned with from the excursion," Raila said as the crowd cheered.  The leaders addressed supporters at KFA after their convoy snaked through Kenyatta Avenue and Canon Awori street. Oparanya has previously asked Raila to retire from politics after failing to clinch the presidency on four attempts.   He said what his NASA co-principals should be asking is what
he returned with from his excursion. Joho and Oparanya have
declared interest to contest the presidency in 2022. Joho did not mention his
bid during his speech. Speaking in Malava on April 5, urged Raila to endorse
his bid when he attends the ongoing fifth devolution conference. Oparanya said that he
stood with Raila since 2002 and it was time for him to return the favour. “Raila will be in
Kakamega on April 25 and I want him to declare that he will support my bid for
the top seat come 2022 because I am firmly in the race,” Oparanya said. On March 3, Oparanya
asked Raila to retire from politics after four unsuccessful attempts at the
presidency. “I met Raila recently and told him to
stay at home and wait and see how things go,” he told mourners during the
burial of former councilor Reuben Munanga at Shikutse village. Ends……..