Kenya has two major malaria prevention strategies – indoor residual spraying of homes in high transmission areas and the issuing of insecticide-treated nets. These have led to a significant reduction in malaria transmission in some areas. The two methods were introduced in the Western highlands, traditionally considered a high transmission area, about a decade ago and have resulted in an 80 per cent decline in disease caseload.  KENYA, MALAWI AND GHANA GET FIRST VACCINE The world's first malaria vaccine is expected to be introduced in three countries – Ghana, Kenya and Malawi – in October as a pilot project. The pilot will involve more than 750,000 children aged between five and 17 months. The pilot roll-out will assess the feasibility of delivering four doses in real-life settings, and assess the vaccine’s potential to reduce child deaths. The RTS,S vaccine trains the immune system to attack the malaria parasite, which is spread through mosquito bites. The World Health Organization says the jab has the potential to save tens of thousands of lives. It is not yet clear if the vaccine will be feasible for use in the poorest parts of the world. The vaccine needs to be given four times - once a month for three months and then a fourth dose 18 months later.  HEALTH-HUMAN RESOURCE STRAGTEGY Nearly 28 million Kenyans live in high risk areas, the majority of them children under the age of 15. This is according to records from the Ministry of Health-Human Resource Strategy 2014-2018 on malaria and its implications of human resources for health. Malaria Incident Survey 2010 shows that children aged between 5-14 years have the highest incidence of malaria at 13 percent. The prevalence in children below five years increased from 4 percent in 2007 to 8 percent in 2010. Malaria prevalence is nearly three times as high in rural areas (12 per cent) as in urban areas (five per cent). The lake zone has the highest prevalence (38 per cent), while prevalence in other areas is less than five per cent. The malaria endemic zones are Coast, Nyanza (except Kisii, Gucha and Nyamira) and Western (except Mt Elgon, Lugari and Likuyani). In 2011, for instance, clinical malaria was the leading cause of morbidity in Nyanza and Western, accounting for 31.3 and 32.1 per cent. Nationally clinical malaria accounts for up to 30 per cent of outpatient attendance and 19 per cent of admissions to health facilities, and is a leading cause of death in children under five years. Malaria saps the vitality of the workforce and diverts resources needed for development. The World Malaria Report 2016 released by WHO estimates that a cumulative 1.3 billion fewer malaria cases and 6.8 million fewer malaria deaths occurred between 2001 and 2015 than would have occurred had incidence and mortality remained the same. About 97 per cent of those deaths averted were children under five years. Buried, and little-noticed in the report (Page 50), is the gist of what makes this news so exciting: In Africa, reduced malaria mortality rates have translated to a rise in life expectancy at birth of 1.2 years, accounting for 12 per cent of the total increase in life expectancy of 9.4 years.