A 14-member team to steer President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga’s unity deal was yesterday unveiled as unity talks between the two is likely to top the State of the Nation Address on Wednesday. The new members will join the committee co-chaired by lawyer Paul Mwangi (representing Raila) and Martin Mwangi (representing Uhuru). They included Dr Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Busia Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni, James Matundura, Major (rtd) John Seii, Bishop Lawi Imathiu and Samburu Woman Representative Maison Leshomo. Others are Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu and Zecheus Okoth who come on board as advisers. “It is notified for the general information of the public that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Hon. Raila Odinga have appointed a team of 14 advisers to assist in the work of the Building Bridges Initiative,” the statement said. “The 14 advisers shall work under the direction of the Building Bridges Initiative secretariat, which is headed by Ambassador Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi,” it added. Read : Uhuru, Raila enter pact to end ethnic tension and heal wounds On Wednesday afternoon when Uhuru makes his way into the National Assembly Chambers to deliver his first State of the Nation Address, he is likely to be greeted with cheers from both sides of the House. Unlike previously when the Opposition MPs jeered at him or walked out, the joint sitting of both the Senate and the National Assembly is expected to be different after his handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. The address, which is delivered annually in March, was postponed because of Uhuru’s trip to Mozambique, State House insiders said. I wish to inform the House that a special sitting of Parliament will take place on May 2, in the National Assembly Chambers, Speaker Justin Muturi told the MPs a week ago. Uhuru’s first address in his second term in office comes when the country is enjoying peace after a deal between the President and Raila. It was agreed that among other things, the Opposition MPs support the government’s agenda. The two leaders agreed to preach peace and work towards national healing after a divisive general election last year. President Kenyatta was re-elected for the second and last term in office. During past addresses, Raila and other top opposition leaders have stayed away despite being invited by Parliament. Last year, Raila termed Uhuru’s speech a gimmick for the 2017 election season. Suna East MP and Minority Whip in the National Assembly Junet Mohamed yesterday told the Star all NASA lawmakers will attend the address set for 2:30pm. He said the past is gone and they want to give peace a chance. “The handshake has worked miracles. Wednesday’s State of the Nation Address will be nice and beautiful because we want to listen to our President as he sets the agenda for the year,” Junet told the Star on the phone. “We are waiting eagerly and are prepared to attend in numbers. We will listen to him attentively, unlike previously, where we had issues”. In the 2016 address, some Opposition MPs were thrown out of the Chambers by Speakers – Justin Muturi (National Assembly and then Senate Speaker Ekwee Ethuro – for disrupting the President. They included Minority Leader John Mbadi, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, TJ Kajwang’ (Ruaraka) Millie Odhiambo (Mbita) and Gladys Wanga ( Homa Bay Woman Rep). Others were Fred Outa (now Kisumu senator), Simba Arati (Dagoretti) and Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’. Wandayi said he would, for the first time, attend the address. He said it is part of entrenching reconciliation as exhibited by Uhuru and Raila. Also read : Raila took calculated risk to avert bloodshed - Salim Lone “I will definitely attend in the spirit of reconciliation that our party leader Raila has initiated. The handshake has heralded a new dispensation of political rapprochement that needs to be supported by all patriots,” the ODM secretary for political affairs told the Star on the phone. Senator Kajwang’, who chairs the Senate’s Public Accounts and Investments Committee, said he would also be present. “This is an opportunity for the President to talk about what divides us and make a commitment to fight corruption,” he said. According to sources, Senate Minority leader James Orengo, Mbadi, and their respective deputies as wells as whips will join their Jubilee counterparts in welcoming the President at the main gate of Parliament. Click here for the latest political news