The hearing of an appeal against 25 ex-soldier acquitted for deserting the military was yesterday adjourned after the accused said they had not been served with orders. The former soldiers said they could not proceed with the hearing because they had not been served with appeal applications. The accused were acquitted in 2015. They had been accused of deserting the military in 2007 and 2008. The appellate judges directed the Director of Public Prosecutions to serve the ex-soldiers with the applications within 10 days. The DPP has appealed the acquittal of the former soldiers. They were acquitted by the High Court after appealing a martial court decision that sentenced them to life imprisonment for deserting duty contrary to military laws. The prosecution wants the appeal bench to overturn Justice Martin Muya's decision, saying it had flaws. State counsel Yamina Jami wants a retrial of the soldiers. Jami said Muya erred by delivering a consolidated judgement for all the accused persons yet they had been charged individually. The state further faulted the judge for misapprehending facts and misinterpreting the charges of desertion to a minor offence of being absent from work without leave. The former solders had been sentenced by three military courts at the Mtongwe base after they were convicted of desertion. They were accused of quitting the military to work for a US security firm in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kuwait. Muya said the prosecutor had failed to prove the charges of desertion against the ex-soldiers. He said the life sentence was too harsh for people who had "served the country diligently". Muya also faulted the court martial for preferring flawed charges against the former soldiers. "The court martial erred in law and facts in making a determination that the respondents were active in service at the time they were leaving the military," Muya said. The judge said the country was not in a war at the time the former officers left duty. Muya found that the ex-soldiers had initiated a process to leave the force, saying it was not disputed that they wanted to quit the Kenya Defence Forces.