Embu deputy speaker Steve Munene was impeached on Wednesday by MCAs who called him lazy, aloof and proud. They said he undercuts them. Munene snubbed a 30-minute debate in which only two ward representatives tried to defend him. Munene led his supporters in a demonstration against majority chief whip Margaret Kariuki for introducing the motion and MCA Edna Muisyo for tabling it. Munene’s impeachment as deputy speaker was easy. The Powers and Privileges Committee chaired by Speaker Josiah Thiriku brought seven charges against him and recommended MCAs replace him in 10 days. A majority of MCAs voted for impeachment by acclamation. After hearing Muisyo and Munene, the committee said in a report read by the majority leader Michael Njeru that most allegations had been proved. Munene was blamed for failure to convene more than five meetings for the liaison committee which he chaired. Muisyo said that when members raised issues, they were told they lack understanding because they were new. Munene also was accused of attacking his colleagues on social media, television and radio stations on matters debated in the assembly. His accusers said he visits colleagues’ wards and undermines them. He threatened to punish Muisyo by lobbying against her and urging reduction in funds for her ward, they said. Njeru said there was overwhelming evidence from MCAs showing the deputy speaker made mistakes. His defence against the allegations was weak, he said. However, Ruguru-Ngandori MCA Harrison Muturi asked that Munene be forgiven because he was apologetic. Muturi came under fire from Kagaari South MCA Robert Ireri and chief whip Kariuki. They said he was being hypocritical and pretending to be sympathetic, though he was campaigning for the position. Nthawa MCA Nathan Mwari said Munene was being punished over issues that happened outside the assembly. This poses a risk to other members holding positions because they, too, could easily be removed, he said. Waving placards and chanting slogans against Kariuki and Muisyo, Munene’s supporters condemned his removal. Munene blamed his removal on Kariuki, saying this was part of her 2022 game plan. She wants Governor Martin Wambora’s successor to give her a key position, he said. She denied the claims.