The state has been asked to develop a legislative framework to check speculation of land prices in the country and protect Kenyans from infiltration by foreign capital. High cost of land in the country has shot up in the recent past and is likely to affect President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, which includes affordable housing. Delegates attending the Fifth Devolution Conference in Kakamega county yesterday told the government to tame sky-rocketing land prices in urban areasto support the President’s affordable housing pillar. The President plans to put up one milion housing units in the next five years, as part of his legacy before he retires in 2022. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi, who chairs the Senate Committee on Infrastructure, challenged Parliament to come up with tough laws that will tame arbitrary pricing of land to protect Kenyans from exploitation. He said land is at the heart of President Uhuru’s agenda and must be protected at all cost to spur local investment into the sector, which has of late seen an upsurge from foreign investors. "We need to come up with a land speculation legislation to deal with the skyrocketing prices,” he said on the discussions aimed at finding ways to spur investment in the infrastructure sector. The Kiambu senator said the high cost of land had become inhibitive on Kenyans seeking to invest, leaving the future of sector investment on foreigners. He added that Kenyans are unable to meet the sky-rocking land prices in urban centres, and the only way the ambitious housing plan, would be achieved would be by lowering the cost of land, construction and financing. “We must come up with policy interventions that make housing affordable for all Kenyans, even if it means legislation to protect locals,” he said. Noting that the country’s high cost of credit had exposed Kenyans to investors from China and other countries with cheap loans, Wamatangi said it was time to relook at the interest capping law to evaluate its implementation. Last week, during his visit to the UK, the President told a meeting in London that the interest capping should be removed because it cuts small and medium enterprises’ access to credit. The senator who chairs the Senate committee on infrastructure said the government must also mull adopting latest technology in the sector to lower the cost of construction and thus pass on the benefits to ordinary Kenyans. “Enhanced technology can make housing affordable if we have a new approach that has controls at the macro-levels to deal with infiltration of foreign capital,” he said.