NASA co-principal Musalia Mudavadi has defended the planned merger of ANC and Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya. In an exclusive interview yesterday, the ANC leader said the newfound relationship is meant to consolidate their support base and build a strong momentum to sustain the push for reforms, good governance and electoral justice. “The coincidence that Wetang’ula and I happen to be Luhyas does not qualify the merger to be a Luhya party. We are talking about merging two national parties,” Mudavadi said. Read: Mudavadi hints at merger between ANC and Ford Kenya Read also: Mulembe 'marriage' with you is over, Wetangula tells Raila Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and his Sports counterpart Rashid Echesa — Jubilee pointmen in Western — have consistently attacked the proposed merger. Lusaka and Wamalwa are jostling to be DP William Ruto’s running mate in 2022 and are keen to ensure the merge does not ruin their chances. But proponents of the merger and political pundits believe it will unify the region into a strong vote bloc. “The two parties have elected leaders spread across Kenya. We want to take advantage of the numerical strength of a unified party,” Mudavadi said. He said the new merger will strengthen the opposition. Those against the merger have a hidden agenda, which they must tell Kenyans, he said. “It is a label in which fearful opponents are busy burying their heads. Anytime you talk about Western uniting for a cause, everyone shouts ethnicity, yet in their own backyards ethnicity is the religion,” Mudavadi said. The former Vice President said Western is multiethnic and is home to the dominant Luhyas, followed by the Teso, Saboat and Luo communities. “We are not advocating a Luhya community party. That is what the forces that want to keep the community in captivity sell to you,” he said. Read: Luhyas won't be used and dumped again, Bungoma politician says after Weta ditches Raila Mudavadi said Jubilee MPs are afraid of the strong vote bloc to be created. The bloc will create a strong base to help champion the interests of the masses, and naysayers will be shocked, he said. Mudavadi said Western is predominantly Luhya and in Kenya, a party must have a regional base. “Unfortunately, the base is always ethnic. So what is wrong if the base of the new outfit is the Western region? I think the fear is not about the ethnic composition of the merger, but the political capital that comes with it,” Mudavadi said. Read: Ford Kenya, ANC merger plan signals NASA collapse  Click here for the latest political news