Deputy President William Ruto has urged leaders along the Kerio Valley to use cultural exchange programmes to preach peace and reconciliation among communities living in the region. Ruto said communities in the valley of Turkana; West Pokot, Baringo and Samburu Counties could use cultural festivities to preach peaceful coexistence among themselves and with their neighbours. Speaking during the Turkana Cultural Festival held in Lodwar town on Friday, Ruto urged leaders and residents in the region to use the positive part of their culture for peace and harmonious relations. “Let’s use the positive part of our culture for peace and harmonious coexistence amongst ourselves and with our neighbours,” Ruto said. Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), Senate deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, eight Governors and a host of MPs from across the country attended the function. The Governors were Josephat Nanok (Turkana), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Moses Lenolkula (Samburu), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Joseph ole Lenku (Kajiado), Samuel Tunai (Narok) and Uasin-Gishu deputy governor (Daniel Chemno). Others were dignitaries from Ethiopia, South Sudan and Uganda. Ruto assured communities along the Kerio Valley that the Government will ensure peace and stability prevailed in the area at all times. “It is your right to be protected. We don’t ration peace and security. It is the responsibility of the Government to protect the lives of its people and their property. That’s our work,” he said. He said it is through teamwork and unity that challenges of insecurity along the Kerio valley could be solved. The Deputy President, at the same time, said the Government would work closely with leaders in solving the problems associated with oil. Responding to appeals by Turkana leaders including MP James Lomenen (Turkana South) that the Government removes the cap on the county’s share of revenue from oil exploration, Ruto said ways were being sought to address the issue once and for all. He said the move by the Government through the Petroleum Exploration, Development and Production Bill to alter percentages from five to ten in the community allocation of the national government’s share, was a clear indication that ‘we are committed to solving the issue’. “We have done a lot of adjustments to the 2015 bill for the benefit of the people of Turkana. The remaining part of it which includes capping is a small matter that can be solved amicably,” he said. He said the Government deliberately appointed John Munyes from the county as Petroleum and Mining Cabinet Secretary to help solve problems pertaining to the sector since he well understands the issues raised by the leaders. Nanok said leaders along the Kerio Valley have resolved to work together in addressing the challenges of insecurity caused by banditry and cattle rustling activities. “As leaders, we have decided to show the people a peaceful way that can accelerate development and help them improve their lives,” Nanok said.  Click here for the latest political news 