The National Assembly has proposed 6.6 per cent reduction in development budget expenditure in the second supplementary budget for 2017/2018 in order to meet high cost of public debt The budget committee chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah wants Sh40.8 billion chopped off from the development budget to cater for accumulated interests on both external and internal loans that have increased significantly by Sh24.34 billion The committee notes with concerns that the development budget has been reduced so significantly that it may alter the policy direction of the budget. It is indicated that the expenditure cuts are mostly due to poor absorption as well as budget rationalization on account of revenue shortfall,’’ said Ichung’wah. In February, the actual national revenue collected had grown to Sh1.015 trillion accounting for only 44 per cent of the estimated total budget for the year. He added that only 31 per cent of development expenditure had been financed by February, raising concerns on whether development targets for 2017/18 will be met on time and if the actual money spent on development will constitute 30 per cent of actual budget as required Kenya is wrestling the burden high public debt that is threatening to cross Sh5 trillion ceiling. According to economic survey 2018, the country’s debt is at Sh4.54 trillion. The mountain of debt comprises of 51.9 per cent of foreign loans and 48.1 per cent of domestic loans. According to the proposed supplementary budget II for the year that will expire on June 30, consolidated fund service increased by 27.6 billion on account of higher interest payments especially on external loans and debt redemptions. Interests on external loans grew by Sh19.2 billion due to effects of new debt terms affecting the debut international sovereign bond, the Standard Chartered Syndicated Loan and East & Southern African Trade and development loans which increased by Sh7.53, Sh4.75 and Sh6.97 respectively. Some of the heaviest causalities of the cut on development budget include external funding for Nairobi to Naivasha Standard Gauge Railway which was chopped by Sh42 billion. Others are the State Department for Infrastructure whose budget for roads was cut by Sh34.3 billion. At least Sh22.1 billion budgets for low cost housing, equalization fund, donor funding for HIV/Aids, TB and Malaria allocated to National Treasury was chopped. Ironically, the parliament has proposed budget increment for the recurrent expenditure by Sh24.06 billion despite warning from IMF which asked the country to find a balance between recurrent and development budget.