Employers that fail to remit their employees Sacco contributions were on Saturday put on notice. Senior Deputy Commissioner at the State department of cooperatives Geoffrey Nja’ngombe said over the weekend that non-remittance has affected the liquidity of many Saccos to a great extent. Non Remittance of member’s savings has spread all over the country where most employers are either delaying or not remitting member’s deductions. Nja’ngombe was speaking during the Annual Delegates Conference for the Afya Cooperative society at the Kenyatta International Convention Center. Country wide, he said, over Sh 550 billion has not been remitted by various Saccos. However, the figure has been reducing after agencies were put on notice. “We have a provision in the law section 35 of cooperatives act where in case of non-remittance the commissioner has the mandate to take the employer to court of give an agency notice or even attach funds of employer which also attracts an interest of 5 percent cumulatively,” he said. Nja’ngombe also said that although the problem is going down, it has been more after devolution. ”Before salaries were deducted at headquarters at national level but with the devolution, the cases of non-remittance has been rampant Nja’ngombe said they had an issue with Afya Sacco Mombasa branch and had to attach county governments’ assets after they had failed to remit the members contributions. He pointed that there was an agreement between the county government and Sacco that they will remit the Sh 107 million they owed and were given a time. They however fail to honour subsequently having their assets attached. Nja’ngombe said that they have since started making payments although they will have to pay an additional five percent interests. Apart from Afya, the commissioner named, Shirika, Jitegemee in Mombasa and Agricultural Development Cooperative which he singled out as almost bringing the Sacco’s to a standstill. Overall Nja’ngombe said most of the Saccos have started honoring their pledges but noted Mombasa , Muranga and Nairobi counties who are most affected by the non-remittance Afya Sacco CEO, Felix Ndoi said the society has continued to operate and adapt to the changing business environment occasioned by devolution and the resultant transfers and re organization of membership at the county level. Ndoi noted that they have changed the strategy in pursuing monthly remittances expected from the members given the rampant strikes and disruptions at county level of government. He said that this year they have proposed a dividend payout of Sh 845 million at a rate of 8 percent, the same as of last year to members whose deposits were at the Sacco as at December 2017. The society turn over in the year 2017 was Sh 2.19 billion compared to 2.16 billion in 2016.