The Nairobi county government has missed its revenue collection target from small business permits (SBP) by Sh1.9 billion. The county's Fiscal Strategy Paper 2018 reports that the revenue performance from the sector at Sh1.7 billion against a Sh3.6 billion target. This was blamed on undercharging on the e-payment platform and slow pace of devolution of the revenue stream to the sub-counties. "This was a marginal decline of Sh15 million from financial year 2015/2016 where Sh1.79 billion was collected," reads the report. SBPs revenue at the end of the first half of fiscal year 2017/2018 was Sh378.9 million, being 10 per cent of the annual target of Sh3.6 billion. Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia told the Star there was a lot of underpayment of single business permits for the period under study. "People were paying less than the amount required for the SBPs." "This was indeed a set back in the performance but now we will ensure that the business owners will pay the exact amount required to get the permits," Mbatia said. He further blamed the situation on high default rates on payment and a weak enforcement mechanism. In mitigation, Governor Mike Sonko's administration says it will conduct an enterprise and business census to update its existing databases. Mbatia said the county will also enact a Business Licensing Act to ensure all business operations are covered by the law. The census will seek to separate unified licenses and enhance enforcement so as to seal off revenue collection leakages, the Kariobangi South MCA said. "The county will also standardise the licence renewal calendar for a systematic payment plan by business owners," Mbatia said. He also added that the county will introduce payments through instalments so that business operators can complete their payments within the given period. "The instalments it will allow business owners to plan on payment," Mbatia said. SBPs are currently issued under The City of Nairobi Licensing of Premise and Traders By-Laws, 2007. It is limited to entities within the city. Click here for the latest political news   