Armyworms invading farms in Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and parts of South Rift are causing panic among maize farmers. Armyworms have settled in parts of Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and Kericho counties. They can destroy entire crops. Farmers have asked the government to swiftly provide help and curb the spread of the worm. Trans Nzoia Agriculture executive Mary Nzomo said they are educating farmers and distributing pesticides to be sprayed to keep worms away. “It’s unfortunate that armyworms have invaded at his early stage. The impact may be very severe,” Nzomo said after visiting farms in Cherangany on Thursday.  CROP ROTATION ADVICE Her Uasin Gishu counterpart Samwel Yego said they have intensified the fight against the worms, which destroyed more than 15 per cent of maize in the region last year. “Counties will stock chemicals so that farmers can easily access them,” Yego said. Experts have advised farmers to destroy infested maize and to plant crops that attract and repel the worms. Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba told the Star they were worried about the spread of the worms. Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu are the country’s bead basket. “Farmers have faced many challenges in accessing farm inputs and lack of markets. The spread of the armyworm may compound the situation and threaten the country’s food security,” Khaemba said. Uasin Gishu farmers led by Jackson Tireito said they are likely to lose all their crops because the worms had attacked so early. The crops had just germinated when the worms invaded. “The government must now implement an effective way to deal with spread of the armyworms, failing which the loses will be serious,” Tireito said. On Thursday, farmers asked the parliamentary committee on Agriculture to ensure the government stocks enough chemicals to fight the armyworm. They called for more funding for agricultural extension officers. Both Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties have set aside more than Sh200 million to fight the worms. Last week, farmers in Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Embu and Meru counties raised alarm over return of the fall armyworm. “We have tried several pesticides but none is working,” Embu farmer Edward Murimi said.