Elgeyo Marakwet locals have been asked to exercise caution while crossing rivers to avoid being swept away as heavy rains persist. Residents have also been warned of possible landslides. County commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo on Tuesday said the rains have destroyed some roads and made some rivers burst their banks. He said the rains have come at a time when farmers are planting and cautioned motorists plying feeder roads against driving when it is raining. “We are lucky that no has died in the county due to the ongoing rains, but we should take precautions,” Galgallo said. Sections of roads, including Kapsowar-Kapcherop, Iten-Kapsowar, Liter-Arror, as well as feeder roads, are in a sorry state following the heavy rains. Galgallo said the county disaster committee is prepared for any eventuality resulting from the torrential rains. “I have also met with my public works team and Kenya Rural Roads Authority. We want to avoid scenarios where transport is paralysed due to the rains,” he said. The state administrator said the rains have not affected the supply of subsidised fertiliser to National Cereals and Produce Board boards depots in the county. BEWARE OF EARTH CRACKS He further cautioned locals living in landslide-prone areas to move to safer grounds when they see signs of earth cracks in their villages. The state has mapped out Embolot, Embotut, Endo, Kaben and Mumol as areas likely to experience landslides during heavy rains. In Marakwet West subcounty, Kapcherop, Chebororwa and Kipsaya are listed as prone to landslides. Other areas singled out include Kapchemutwa, Anin and Keu regions of Neiyo North subcounty, while in Keiyo South, Kabechei, Epke, Kocholwo and Tureia have been identified. Fruit traders in Elgeyo Marakwet were counting losses in November last year as heavy rains damaged roads, causing their lorries to get stuck during the mango harvesting season. The farmers are again counting losses as most of the roads are impassable and several lorries have overturned.Residents said Arror-Biretwo road and others that lead to Kerio Valley, Iten, Nakuru and Eldoret are all in poor state. Kenya National Highways Authority engineer Edwin Cheserek said the roads cannot be repaired for as long as it rains. He said lorries and bulldozers used for repairs could not reach the area.