Opposition leader Raila Odinga and Anne Waiguru will meet in Nairobi on Wednesday to discuss plans for this year's devolution conference. Expectations are high on how the two will engage at Capitol Hill as they have not been seeing eye to eye. But the meeting comes a few weeks after Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta's famous handshake that is focused national healing, reconciliation, peace and unity. Waiguru, who is Kirinyaga Governor and vice chair of the Council of Governors, will be acompanied by people including Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Muranga Senator Irungu Kang'ata. The officials are expected to discuss the devolution conference that will take place from April 23-27 in Kakamega county. Raila and Waiguru do not see eye to eye as the latter was implicated in the Sh1.8 billion National Youth Service scandal during her tenure as Devolution CS. In February 2018, Waiguru requested the High Court to allow a case she had filed against Raila to proceed, saying there had been insufficient reason for its suspension. Raila, through his lawyer, had requested that the hearing be stopped until he filed an appeal challenging a ruling issued last November. The ruling allowed Waiguru to conceal certain information regarding her lifestyle. The row between Waiguru and Raila arose in 2015 after the ODM leader linked her to the NYS scandal. Waiguru sued the Opposition leader on September 29, 2015, accusing him of recklessly tarnishing her name. The former Prime Minister then released a dossier on how the state agency allegedly lost millions of shillings under the watch of the former Cabinet Secretary. In the dossier, Raila claime Uhuru failed to include her name in the 'list of shame', which saw several senior government officials including CSs lose their jobs. Immediately after Waiguru filed the case, the Opposition leader asked for an audit of her lifestyle.  She responded to the queries but Raila was not satisfied. Read: Raila loses bid for Waiguru lifestyle audit Waiguru was accused of being behind the theft that saw overt 20 suspects arrested and charged in court. They were acquitted for lack of sufficient evidence in 2018. She denied being a part of the theft and instead linked Majority leader Aden Duale and Elgeyo Marakwet MP Kipchumba Murkomen. Waiguru also took the scandal to Deputy President William Ruto's doorstep, saying his aide Farouk Kibet was a key figure in the NYS heist and made 150 calls with suspect Ben Gethi at the time of the scandal. See: Waiguru probe summary: Furor, more shocking revelations at lengthy NYS scam grilling Click here for the latest political stories