Police have arrested two suspects said to be members of a gang linked to robbery and rape cases in Kiambu.
Criminals have been attacking homes, robbing people and raping women. The gang is said to have raped at least four women in the last one month, besides violently robbing the victims.
One suspect was arrested in Kiambu town, while the other was traced to Western, where he is said to have been hiding.
The gang is reported to be operating in Kiamumbi and parts of Runda, where incidents of rape during robberies have been reported.
This comes days after DCI chief George Kinoti met top cops from Kiambu over the wave of crime. Read: Kiambu gang boss held, Sh1m loot recovered
Last Thursday, Kinoti called all DCI commanders from the region for a meeting at the DCI headquarters, Kiambu Road.
They discussed various security challenges in the closed-door meeting that lasted five hours. The DCI commanders were instructed to crack down on criminal gangs.
Yesterday, Kiambu DCI chief Amos Teben confirmed the arrest of the two men. He did not, however, reveal the suspects’ identities. “We have arrested several people and the crackdown will continue,” Teben told the Star on the phone.
The DCI commanders last week resolved that officers from the Flying Squad and Special Crimes Prevention Unit join the hunt.
The meeting was attended by commanders from the two elite units and county police bosses from Nairobi and Kiambu. Kinoti told the police chiefs to style up and do more to combat increasing crime. Read: Young gangsters steal guns from cops for city robberies
Sources said Kinoti was angry after it emerged that some police chiefs had been concealing major crimes from their superiors. This has led the public to believe police are ineffective in dealing with crime, the source said.
Three months ago, criminals raided a farm said to be owned by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s uncle and stole goats and cattle. The animals were slaughtered and the mutton and beef sold. The incident was reported at Juja police station.
The theft was among the issues raised by Kinoti during the commanders’ meetings.  Click here for the latest political news