With the rising number of buildings and the decreasing open space, balcony farming is emerging as a great option for many urban dwellers keen to grow their own food. Balcony farming does not require much room. One only needs the little space available at the balcony to set up a garden. Products one can cultivate here include vegetables, bananas, passion fruits, tomatoes and onions. Balcony farming not only helps families eat fresh, nutritious foods without the hustle of going to the market but also can be commercialised to generate income. In Mombasa county, Tononoka resident Zainab Abdallah, 36, became a balcony farmer in Majengo Machura estate, starting a garden on top of a two-storey building. At her garden, measuring about 50 square metres, she grows vegetables and fruits for commercial and family use. Her love and passion for plants started four years ago, and since she had no place to do her farming, she came up with the idea of setting up a balcony garden at her rental place. She consulted with the landlord, who allowed her do her crop production at the balcony, which has proved successful. “It’s not a must for you to own land to produce food. Any place with water and soil can be your garden,” she said.  HOW SHE STARTED The idea struck Zainab when she read a story in one of the daily newspapers on how one can start balcony farming. She followed up with the Agriculture office in Mombasa town, which taught her how to set up the garden. Today, she is producing a variety of vegetables and fruits, including spinach, sukuma wiki, cabbages, mchicha, cowpeas, tomatoes and onions. “The balcony garden does not need much maintenance. It is not time-consuming. I just devote 10 to 15 minutes of my free time to attend to the plants,” she said. Agricultural officers trained her on how to mix the soil and the farmyard fertiliser to begin farming at the balcony. Zainab started with one old sack, which she used to plant crops, then changed to buckets and crates. The little balcony space acts as her one acre piece of land, which is always busy with different farming projects. Standing on top of her house next to the Coast General Hospital, Zainab says through the project, she was able to produce enough for her family. However, with time the harvest was more than enough, and she could not consume them alone. Zainab approached the local Mama Mboga, who rented her space to sell off her excess produce, something that motivated her to grow more crops. She recalls how one time, she got a bumper harvest of tomatoes and could not take them all but managed to sell them. The Mombasa Agricultural Show has also played a key role in training and helping her get more information on farming. The balcony farmer says she never misses the annual agricultural show. She normally showcases her products and also gets an opportunity to learn more from other farmers and agricultural experts. One of her key achievements is when she improvised a net house to cover her crops from the scorching sun. The net house, she says, is helpful during drought, as her crops flourish despite the sun. Zainab also uses technology to research more on farming. She is a Google farmer who browses the Internet for ideas and experiments farming different crops in her garden. Her research paid off when she grew tissue-cultured bananas, matomoko, coconuts and oranges, which she harvested well. “Plants need love and care, just like humans,” she says.  COSTS AND BENEFITS Balcony gardening, however sweet, comes with costs. Zainab has to buy soils and manure from Kikowani goat yard and pay some youths to ferry the soils on top of the building, which is tiresome. She has also to rely on family members, who appreciate her efforts and have been supportive since she started the garden. “The farming has improved the nutritional needs of my family. We complement our meals with a range of products, which are organically produced within our doorstep. I have the choice to complement with the herbs, vegetables and fruits,” Zainab says. She also grows rose flowers in the balcony, making the place pleasant with fresh air. Normally, she spends most of her evenings together with her family, enjoying the nature created by the garden at the balcony. Zainab recycles most of her water and other household waste for the organic garden, which reduces waste. Her vision is to educate people to produce food however little space they have, as it can enable them to put a meal on the table, hence helping with food security. “Many countries like Brazil, Japan and India have advanced in the technology. Our local prisons, such as Shimo la Tewa, have also done the same,” she says. For one to have a proper garden, it’s important to waterproof his or her balcony to ensure it does not result in seepage or other damage to the building structure. “My landlord has been supportive because the place looks clean and lively, dotted with flowers and plants,” she says. The concept of balcony farming provides one with a sense of satisfaction and has proved that when many people get the right knowledge on smart farming, nobody will die of hunger in the country, which has large chunks of land still lying idle. Zainab does not agree with the traditional saying that Coast people are lazy, especially women. She says if given equal opportunities and resources, they can do wonders in terms of production. During a good week, she gets between Sh10,000 and Sh13,000 from sales of products in her balcony garden, which caters for her family needs and savings. The farmer’s hard work has also earned her a prize from her husband, who rewarded her with five acres at Marafa in Magarini subcounty, Kilifi county, where she is cultivating pineapples. Zainab has also been recognised by international and regional organisations advocating nutrition and better health.  INNOVATIVE SOLUTION DSW programme manager George Ouma says the drought situation in the country is worrying and calls for innovation. DSW is a German NGO that deals with nutrition. Ouma designs and develops programmes tackling nutrition and health needs in Kenya and East Africa. Ouma says even though the government has invested heavily in the Big Four agenda, which involves food security and nutrition, there must be innovations on how citizens are empowered to produce food. He says efforts must be made to mitigate the adverse effects of drought, supporting the growing of nutritious food in the urban set-up, where there is limited space for farming. “Balcony garden is a good example of initiatives that should be adopted in increasing the production of food for urban households,” Ouma says. “If such initiatives are embraced, there will be a variety of food that shall improve the nutritional needs of their families.”