Spencon Kenya Limited, the firm that nearly scuttled the controversial 2014 Eurobond, has been kicked out of its Rahimtulla Towers office over failure to pay rent. The construction firm’s six year lease of the office block expired in 2016. The firm, which collapsed following vicious shareholder wars, had refused to exit Rahimtulla Towers despite the expiry of its lease. The building’s owners also held that Spencon owes it Sh15.4 million in rent arrears and missed profits since 2016 when the lease expired. High Court Judge Bernard Eboso has ordered Spencon to vacate the 6,000 square feet office and 16 parking spaces it was allocated in April 2010. Eboso said the building’s owners were at liberty to evict the firm if it failed to vacate. The suit has also unmasked Sony Holdings—the owners of Westgate Mall—as co-proprietors of Rahimtulla Towers, alongside the Ismail Rahimtulla Trust. Sony Holdings is owned by Alex Trachtenberg and Vishiali Madan. 15-day order Court papers seen by the Star do not, however, reveal Sony Holdings’ exact stake in Rahimtulla Towers or when the real estate firm acquired a stake in one of Nairobi’s most prominent buildings. The Rahimtulla Trust and Sony Holdings moved to court in June, last year, seeking an order allowing them to evict Spencon which has, since 2015, crawled nearer to its death owing to shareholder wars. Eboso ruled that Spencon’s lease at Rahimtulla Towers expired in 2016, hence there occupation of the office block was illegal.The judge gave Spencon 15 days to vacate when it issued the orders on March 29. “Spencon Kenya Limited shall, within 15 days from today [March 29], vacate the suit premises and restore the premises to the state in which they were at the commencement of the lease,” Eboso said. “In default, Ismail Rahimtulla Registered Trustees shall be at liberty to take possession of the suit premises through eviction and shall similarly be at liberty to restore the premises to the state in which the premises were at the commencement of the lease. The police commander in charge of Nairobi shall ensure law and order are maintained during the taking of possession of the suit premises.” Spencon shot to the limelight in 2014 when it filed a case in a New York court to enforce a Sh1 billion award against the Government of Kenya. SH1 billion claim The New York suit threatened to ruin Kenya’s pursuit of the Sh289 billion Eurobond which was only floated after Spencon withdrew the matter. Spencon’s withdrawal of the New York case was ordered by Kenya’s High Court, which ruled that the dispute ought to be dealt with locally. The Sh1 billion claim would have been listed as a foreign debt, which would have dented Kenya’s credit rating. Receivership Spencon’s woes stemmed from a fight between the firm’s founder Jitendra Chhotabai Patel who accused US-based equity fund Emerging Capital Partners of fraudulently acquiring a 60 per cent stake. The European Investments Bank had also invested in Spencon through ECP. The non-profit lender last year launched investigations into the standoff, following complaints of fraud. The eviction piles more misery on Spencon, whose inability to honour debts has left it under receivership since 2016. During its glory days, Spencon undertook multibillion-shilling government projects, including the construction of the Bomet-Litein