Rwandan marksman Jacques Tuyisenge came of the bench to nod in the winning goal as a second string Gor Mahia side pipped a resolute Wazito 1-0 in a midweek Kenyan Premier League match played at a slippery Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. As expected, Gor dominated possession and had the better chances at goal but were let down by abject finishing by the normally reliable Medie Kagere. Twice, the out of sorts Kagere was played in by his stylish Ivorian teammate Ephraim Guikan but he could not test Philip Odhiambo. Wazito forwards Pistone Mutamba and Joe Waithira were left to feed on scraps and hardly had a sight of goal. Harun Nyakha had their best chance but his shot was saved by Shaban Odhonji. Wazito’s lot going forward improved slightly with the introduction of Ibrahim Mao but it was his opposing substitute Tuyisenge who was to have a telling effect on the tie as he flicked in Samuel Onyango’s cross 15 minutes from time to give K’Ogalo the win that put them on 22 points, one behind Mathare United. Meanwhile, Ulinzi Stars striker, Masita Masuta has marveled in his last ditch effort that salvaged a point for the soldiers against Bandari, which prevented them from falling to a second successive defeat. The 90th minute goal, his fourth of the season, was the third point-winning goal, scored by the striker signed from Nzoia Sugar at the start of the year, his two other goals having won the team six points, against Tusker FC and Kakamega Homeboyz. Speaking on the cubs official portal on his impact in the game, Masita acknowledged satisfaction at his contribution in the game, terming it a boost to his confidence as the season progresses. “When you come from the bench, you have the instructions to go in and change the game. It is never easy and so I am happy that I helped the team pick a point. It is the second time I came from the bench and scored and it makes me really glad to have the impact expected of me by the coach,” said Masuta. “Whenever I have the chance to lift the team, I will always do that and it gives me confidence to have such an impact.” Ulinzi return home at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru to take on Thika United on Sunday.