More Kenyan boxers fell by the wayside as the Commonwealth Games competition entered Day 6 yesterday at the Oxenfen Studios yesterday here in Gold Coast, Australia. Kenya’s Nickson Abaka and Elizabeth Andiege are the latest casualties after being subjected to rough time in the ring. Abaka succumbed 4-1 to powerful Zambian, Mbachi Kaonga in the 81kg heavyweight bout amid protests over biased officiating. The referees ruled 29-28, 30-27, 29-28, 28-29 and 30-27 respectively in favour of the Zambian boxer. Indeed, Abaka had a bad day in office as his tactical movement was countered by very powerful blows that at least forced him to kiss the canvas once. “I do not want to do the referees’ job. They have made their ruling and all I can do is to respect. You all saw what happened and I am sure you can make a better judgement,” he said, adding that this could probably be his last Commonwealth Games and he wanted to end it all on a high. “I wanted to go out with my head high and whatever has happened here is very disappointing. I am now 38 years and that is not young as I am headed into my retirement,” he added. He said despite losing, he still believes his opponent is beatable. “Initially, I thought he is strong but when he started back-pedaling, I knew the man can be tackled,” he added. He, however, said he is happy he ended his match injury free unlike his colleagues who sustained cuts. Like any other sport, Abaka said life is all about win or lose and he has no time for excuses. He said he has no regrets whatsoever despite exiting the games early. “At least I have had a chance to represent Kenya in the AIBA Pro series,” he added. “We need to change with the time because a lot has changed,” said Abaka, whose wish is to go into coaching after he retires. He said sometimes they are forced to learn about new rules during the championships because they are never updated. Coach Patrick Maina was a disappointed man. “I don’t know how these points are awarded because in my view Abaka had an upper hand with accurate targets and uppercuts.” He, however, explained that movement was Andiege’s main undoing. “Her opponent discovered that she could not move around properly as a result of a car accident which happened sometime back,” he revealed. “We had planned that she allows her opponent to attack but this didn’t work because they apparently discovered that she can’t move around the ring,” he added. Also exiting the event was Brian Agina, who lost to Pakistan’s Syed Muhammad Asif 4-1in the 52kg round of 16. Agina had little to offer as the Pakistani dominated throughout the bout. Click here for the latest political news