Moringa farming is becoming one of the most ideal types of farming in Kilifi, not only helping to tackle famine and nutrition but also creating wealth though the tree's products. The tree survives in harsh conditions and does not require many techniques for farmers to produce. Already, there is a ready market at a local factory, Kilifi Moringa Estates, which has a high demand for the Moringa seeds to manufacture oil. Moringa oil is used to make cosmetic products that are sold at very high prices in developed countries. Already, 15 people living with HIV-Aids in Matsangoni, Kilifi county, ditched vegetable farming two years ago to begin Moringa farming, and now they are reaping the benefits of the products from the tree. They formed Matsangoni Health Support Group to plant crops that would promote their health due to their status. Loice Karisa, one of the members, says they started planting Moringa after being supported by the factory investor. She says they learnt that Moringa has a lot of health benefits, as it boosts the immune system, cleans blood and has calcium. “Moringa helps expectant mothers, breastfeeding mothers get more milk and for us it promotes our health due to our status,’’ she says. Since they started the project four years ago, the project has enabled them to feel part of the society and live a healthy life. Currently they are harvesting the seeds and the leaves, which are in high demand at the Kilifi Moringa Estates. Matsangoni resident Abdalla Kombe, 42, says they now sell the leaves at Sh35 per kilo, while the seeds are sold at Sh250 per kilo. Kombe, who is also HIV-positive, says at home, he has his own farm and gets income from not only the factory but by selling to locals, who buy leaves for food. On a good week, they sell leaves worth Sh20,000 from their farm at the health centre, and seeds generate Sh40,000. At his own farm of Moringa trees, Kombe sells leaves to neighbours who want to cook. For every 13 leaves of Moringa, he gets Sh10, and per day, he gets Sh300. David Ziro, chairman of the Matsangoni Health Support Group, says before the project, those living with HIV felt sidelined, which made them live a vulnerable life. Apart from those living with HIV, there are other vulnerable groups, such as widows and single mothers, who have also taken up Moringa farming. “Nowadays when we get out looking for farmers, it’s easier to get them because they know the potential,” he says.  ALL RESOURCES AVAILABLE The group is just an example of how residents can begin serious production of Moringa instead of planting maize, which fails due to drought, leading to overreliance on relief food. In Matsangoni, there are 370 farmers, with an average of one acre per person. This year the company is targeting 200 farmers. Kilifi Moringa Estates uses outgrowers, and their aim is to have as many as possible, as the demand of the Moringa products is high overseas. Company CEO Papu Haroon says the idea of using the community is first to create opportunities, particularly for women who are the majority, both in the farming and the factory. Further, he says, he chose the Matsangoni Health Centre as the area to plant Moringa to help enlighten the community on health benefits and even how to make profit from the tree. “The oil that is produced from the Moringa seeds is used to make cosmetics products for women,” Haroon says. Currently, he says, they have an order from Vivo Cosmetics company from the US, which cannot be sustained by farmers in Kilifi, something which has made them look for the seeds all over the country. Haroon says the project is connecting the poorest women in Kenya and Africa at large with the wealthy women in the world, who use the cosmetic products. By 2022, he said, they target to have 1,000 farmers in the county to become the largest producers of Moringa. If the county adopts Moringa farming, Haroon says it will replace the ailing tourism industry and become an agricultural leader in the country. “I hope Kilifi county will take the project as all products resources are on the ground,” he says. Moringa oil is edible. One can use it for cooking or making salad, but it’s very expensive. The Moringa Estates CEO says one litre of Moringa oil is sold at Sh10,000.