Former Senator Judith Sijeny has recounted the brutal bullying she endured after sponsoring a bill proposing that 10 year-olds be given condoms. The ex-Wiper legislator said some of the threats were delivered through the media while others were made directly to her. She was branded ‘Senator Condom’ and accused of promoting immorality and abortion in Kenya. "I did not feel safe. When people turn the society against you, that is a threat to your life," she told the Star yesterday. Read: Bill not about providing condoms in schools - Senator Sijeny Sijeny introduced the Reproductive Health Care Bill in the Senate in 2014. The move sparked outrage from the Church, parents association, the Ministry of Education, and teachers' unions. The Bill proposed that children be issued with condoms and contraceptives without requiring parental consent. The proposal was based on research that shows the age of first sex is as low as 10 years in Kenya. "I have been called all sorts of names and was accused of promoting condoms for 10 year olds," Sijeny said on Friday. She spoke at a symposium organised by the Kenya Medical Women’s Association in Nairobi. Sijeny said she was forced to hold meetings with the Kenya Parents Association, churches, and different organisatons to explain that she did not advocate for immorality. "It is only after meeting them that I felt safe. But I was not cowed. I stood strong and firm because I knew I was doing the right thing," she said. The Bill was not approved by the last Senate but some sections were incorporated into the Health Act. Sijeny, who is now a practising lawyer in Nairobi and Wiper secretary general, says they are too broad adding that there is need for a Reproductive Healthcare Act. During Friday's meeting, KMWA chairperson Christine Saadia said there are still many barriers that prevent women and girls from accessing quality health services. "These barriers include gender related disparities, economic legal and social determinants such as low education," she said. KMWA was established in 1983 as a membership body for Kenyan female medical doctors and dentists. Click here for the latest political news 