Kenya is poised to host a Pan African Conference on Education on April 25-27. This will be under the auspices of Unesco and the African Union, and will bring together African ministers of Education, policy and opinion makers on education in Nairobi. The conference titled ‘Bridging Continental and Global Education Frameworks for the Africa We Want’ will identify challenges and opportunities in the further alignment of educational systems in view of ensuring transformative education for Africa. This will be against the backdrop of two groundbreaking commitments — Sustainable Development Goals 2030 and the Continental Strategy for Education in Africa 2016-2025 (CESA16-25 ) — that the entire world and Africa committed to realise less than three year ago. Under Goal 4, governments are obliged to “ensure equitable inclusive quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all.” In an effort to support Africa’s development vision, member states, under the auspices of the AU, endorsed CESA 16-25. It aims at “reorienting Africa’s education and training systems to meet the knowledge, competencies, skills, innovation and creativity required to nurture African core values and promote sustainable development at the national, sub-regional and continental levels”. It is essentially an African response to own the SDGs, shape and adapt them to the specific needs of the continent, building on lessons learnt from previous education strategies and plans. Education is seen as the catalyst to realising all the other 16 SDGs, and policy and opinion makers view it as the force that will develop human capital to realise these goals. According to Unesco’s report of the Secretary General, titled ‘Progress Towards the Sustainable Development Goal’, about 263 million children and youth were out of school, including 61 million children of primary school age by the close of last year. “Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia account for over 70 per cent of the global out-of school population in primary and secondary education,” the report says. The AU acknowledges this problem in its Continental Strategy for Education in Africa document, noting the continent ought to sustain access while improving learning outcomes. “There is need to bring in more than 30 million children currently out of school, while at the same time, ensuring those who are enrolled acquire relevant competencies and knowledge at the end of basic education,” the strategy paper says. Goal 4 underlines the need for all governments to provide equitable inclusive quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all. Governments are obliged, among other imperatives, to ensure all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development. African states have taken bold initiatives to integrate access, quality, equity and equity in the policies, initiatives and programmes they have individually developed to provide education. Kenya, for instance, has made tremendous efforts towards achieving access and gender parity to meet the equity obligation. Enrolment in primary education is roughly 50-50. Transition to secondary school is now over 90 per cent. However, the CESA 16-25 strategy paper notes that quality and equity challenges are still manifested in terms of disparities in gender, regional location, minority groups, pastoral communities and the poor. “Furthermore, completion rates in many countries are very low. On average, only 70 per cent of children entering primary education in Sub-Saharan Africa complete it against 95 per cent in North Africa and the Middle East,” the paper observes. It says that a similar challenge faces the quality of education as measured by learning outcomes. “Some of the children going through the system are not acquiring the knowledge and skills expected at each stage,” it notes. Kenya policy makers in education have directed the country’s focus on establishing and sustaining the foundations necessary to ensure quality education beyond mere access to education. The conference will therefore discuss the question of access, quality, equity and relevance in light of the Goal 4 and CESA 16-25: The progress the continent has made so far in the light of meeting the injunctions on equitable inclusive quality education and lifelong learning opportunities for all on all governments by the year 2030. It will offer an opportunity to take stock of the progress each country has made and to identify both the strength and challenges and opportunities they uniquely to enable them to further align their respective national educational systems in view of ensuring a transformative education for Africa in a meaningful and significant way.