Last week's protests in Mwiki over the deplorable condition of a road is probably a tip of what Governor Mike Sonko should expect in the coming days. A tour of various parts of the city shows roads are in pathetic conditions. They are littered and have large, deep potholes. Others have been rendered impassable with the ongoing rains that have flooded them. Some roads have been blocked by garbage dumped on them and sewage is flowing freely on others, thanks to poor drainage. The county however says it has patched most of the roads under its management and appeared to shift blame to the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, which it says is in charge of most roads. In Dandora, virtually all the roads there are almost impassable. Komarok, Uhuru Kenyatta and John Osogo Roads – key corridors in the area – are pathetic. John Osogo, which is the main road leading to Dandora dumpsite, has completely been cut off by garbage dumped on it by trucks unable to access the site. "Look at this, do you think we are still in Nairobi? Can you believe we elected leaders and we have a governor sitting in office?” resident Raymond Mwangi asked. The situation is not any better on Uhuru Kenyatta and Komarok Roads, also in Dandora. Both sides of the corridors have been turned into dump-sites and potholes are all over. Residents and matatu operators say criminal gangs have been attacking matatus stuck on the roads and stealing from commuters. "You can't pass here past 10pm and if you do, then you are very lucky. These people [gangs] are all over. It is risky whether you are in a matatu or private car,” another resident, Fredrick Nyongesa said. Matatu operators say they have been forced hike fares to compensate for the lost time on the road. "We take like three hours to travel from town to Dandora and we service our vehicles almost every week because of state of these roads. I have not even talked about the jam and the money we give to police,” a Prestige Sacco matatu driver said. Roads chief officer Fredrick Karanja said the county has patched potholes in several roads since it acquired Sh100 million patching machines last December. "People assume that any road in Nairobi are under the management of the county. That is not the case. Most of these roads are under Kura,” he said. In the nearby Umoja estate, roads are not any better. Moi Drive Road and Feroze-Tononoka Roads in the area were over the weekend turned into lakes after they were submerged with water due to the ongoing rains. The situation is similar in Utawala where residents have complained for years about the sorry state of Utawala-Githunguri Road. The underpass of the Outer Ring Road near Taj Mall was also rendered impassable over the weekend because of the heavy downpour pounding the city and other parts of the country. Roads are even poorer in Eastleigh. In CBD, Tom Mboya and River Road are in pathetic conditions and Lagos Road, Luthuli Avenue, Kenyatta Avenue Accra Road are impassable whenever it rains. Mwiki residents on April 19 were left stranded after matatu operators went on strike over the poor state of roads. Residents are forced to walk more than three kilometres or use boda bodas which charge Sh150 to Sh200, up from the usual Sh50. The matatu operators and residents say the contractor making the Mwiki-kasarani road was taking too long to complete the five kilometer stretch. The county however distanced itself from the poor state of the Sh500 million road saying KURA, who is in charge of the construction, picked a lazy contractor to do the job.