A stand off ensued at Daystar University's Nairobi campus on Wednesday night when police stormed in and hurled tear gas canisters at students. This took place as a group of students met on the seventh floor of the DAC Building to discuss issues that have seen learners boycott classes and turn against the management. Student body President Alloy Otieno said the Senate invited their association to discuss the demands they tabled. "We started the meeting ... the Students demanded that Senate members lift suspensions
of staff and student associations and hand over the forensic audit
report as had been promised," Otieno tod the Star by phone. "It was unfortunate that acting VC James Kombo had confidently indicated that the report was ready but did not produce it when asked for it." Despite this circumstance, Otieno said, the meeting remained peaceful until police stormed in. "They broke doors and teargassed us. They ordered us to surrender by lifting our hands and demanded that we immediately vacate the premises," he said. Student Chris Munene told NTV's Sharon Mbaranga that the acting VC could not produce the report because it iaccuses three senior staff members the students want fired of embezzling funds. Among the learners' complaints are poor standards in terms of courses offered and restrictions in the transfer of credits, as well as facilities. Otieno said some parents rushed to the university to check on their children after learning about the standoff. "Unfortunately, the heavily armed police officers blocked the parents from accessing the institution while holding hostage students who were in the building," he said. On Monday, unidentified men were arrested at the campus after trying to evict a student leader.  A video shared on social media shows about five men manhandling a student before a heated argument ensues. Students who spoke to the Star accused two officials of being behind the chaos. The learners, who requested anonymity, said their investigations found that one of the officials hired about 10 bouncers to evict all student leaders from the school on grounds that they incite students against management. More on this: Unknown men arrested at Daystar over student leader evictions Click here for the latest political news