President Uhuru Kenyatta and First Lady Margaret are among those attending Kenneth Matiba's memorial service at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi., Others present are former President Mwai Kibaki, DP William Ruto and his wife Rachel, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, Narc Kenya's Martha Karua and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko are also at the church.  The coffin containing the body former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  President Uhuru Kenyatta arrives at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  Former President Mwai Kibaki arrives at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI The procession started at Lee Funeral home and used Argwings Kodhek, Valley, Ralphe Bunche and Ngong Roads. The mourners also went to Uhuru Park before going to the cathedral. At the church, about 10 men in black suits handled the coffin.  Former President Mwai Kibaki and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi during former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  Politicians at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi during former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  President Uhuru Kenyatta, First Lady Margaret and Deputy President William Ruto at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI Hundreds of Kenyans went to the venue from as early as 6.30 am to honour the former Cabient minister who will be remembered for his efforts for multi-party democracy.  Interior CS Fred Matiang'i arrives at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  ANC leader MUsalia Mudavadi arrives at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI  Members of the public at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi for former Cabinet minister Kenneth Matiba's funeral service, April 25, 2018. /MONICAH MWANGI Security was tightened owing to the presence of many high profile people. There were traffic disruptions between 8 am and 10.30 am. This will also be the case between 1.30pm and 3.30pm on Ralph Bunche and Ngong Roads, Haile Selassie Avenue, Processional Way, Kenyatta Avenue and Valley Road. Click here for the latest political news