IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati now says the government has withdrawn his armed security officers and drivers. Also withdrawn, according to the commission are officers attached to commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu. In a communication to the media, IEBC communication officer Andrew Limo said the move is likely to expose the three to a security risk. "The provision of security to the chairman and members of the commission during their tenure is within their contract of service and that this obligation ceases only when the contract expires," Limo said in the statement. Read: IEBC ex-commissioners supported Chiloba's compulsory leave - Chebukati This latest development comes after Chibukati suspended CEO Ezra Chiloba on April 9 over procurement issues. On Monday, three IEBC commissioners resigned accusing Chebukati of failing to give proper leadership. The three vice chair Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya in a joint statement said, "With the mistrust at the commission, we feel that our positions as commissioners are no longer tenable. We regret to tender our resignations with immediate effect." It is understood that the chairman and three other commissioners asked Chiloba to go home Details: CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos Chebukati and Chiloba have not had a cordial working relationship since the CEO resumed work this year. The Opposition has demanded Chiloba's removal, saying he rigged the bungled August 8 election, in which Uhuru Kenyatta was declared the winner. It said he could not be trusted to oversee the October 26 presidential rerun. Chiloba had taken leave from mid-October and only resumed work in January. Commission sources said the two were not seeing eye to eye and rarely spoke to each other. Also read: Ezra Chiloba, two others take leave from IEBC ahead of polls The decision to send Chiloba packing was made last week. In October last year, commissioner Roselyn Akombe resigned from the IEBC saying she had received death threats. Akombe resigned, saying the October 26 repeat presidential polls "absolutely" could not be credible as they were being organised by a very "divided commission". More on this: Citing death threats, Roselyn Akombe quits IEBC