After fluffing home advantage against Esperance of Tunisia in the Africa Champions League a month ago, Gor Mahia will not wish a repeat of that costly mistake when they host South African side SuperSport in the first leg of Caf Confederations cup tomorrow at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Gor exited the continent’s top competition on a slim 1-0 defeat in the second leg away, dropping down to the second tier where they face last year’s losing finalists. SuperSport, famously referred as Matsatsantsa, are currently battling relegation in the Premier League Soccer (PLS) where they sit 14th in a 16-team league and will be hoping for a repeat of a 2014 result in Kenya, where they drew 2-2 with AFC Leopards. Gor will miss the services of Ugandan left back Godfrey Walusmbi, who declined to play for the club protesting unpaid sign on fee and allowances. Meanwhile, a resurgent former champions Tusker stand in the way of high-flying Mathare United and a widening gap at the top of the Kenyan Premier League table when the two sides clash in Thika this weekend. The brewers have seen a notable improvement in results in recent weeks including the 4-2 mauling of AFC Leopards and they will be confident they can stop the Mathare juggernaut from blowing the rest of the title contenders away with just a quarter of the season gone. Former Mathare stalwart Lloyd Wahome was the hero for brewers in the win over Leopards and he will be tasked with the unenviable task of keeping the rampant Mathare forward line at bay. The Slum Boys will likely be without Cliff Nyakenya who picked an injury in their midweek victory over Nakumatt that propelled them one point clear at the top of the KPl table. Leopards, meanwhile, will be away at Nzoia, who will be looking to take another major scalp in five days after beating Sofapaka 1-0 on Wednesday. The disappointing lose at home in midweek will spur Sofapaka on as they travel to Thika this afternoon to face host Thika United. Batoto Ba Mungu missed the opportunity to move a point closer to the top of the league when they were surprisingly beaten by Nzoia a result that left a bitter taste in the mouth for the title contenders.Now they face another struggling side in the league this season looking to right those wrongs made on Wednesday. They will not have it easy against a Thika side that has put their injury woes behind them and is determined to haul themselves further away from the drop zone. Bandari will hope not to be on the end of a backlash when they entertain wounded soldiers Ulinzi Stars tomorrow.