The UN Women has appointed Purna Sen as the executive coordinator and spokesperson on addressing sexual harassment and other forms of discrimination. Prior to her appointment, Purna was  UN Women’s director of Policy Division. She has career spanning over three decades as an activist on violence against women. The human rights expert, academic, and politician was named to the role following concerns of unending cases of sexual harassment targetting women. UN Women’s Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka said the role will focus on placing women’s experiences at the heart of work on sexual harassment and bring survivor-focused approaches to the fore. "UN Women’s leadership will coordinate efforts towards decisive action on this pressing issue, which at its core tackles the gendered nature of power and the need to ensure justice and dignity for women at work." "UN Women was established to protect and promote women’s rights," the executive director said when announcing the measure. "We have a unique role to play in driving action towards accountability. This means zero tolerance for violence and harassment, and actions to ensure that victims are supported," she said. "We currently see practices and cultural norms that enable harassment and penalise victims. This has to change. In her new role and with her directly relevant background, Purna will help address the deep-rooted patterns of inequality and abuse of women." Among Purna’s tasks will be calling upon and supporting states, government administrations, and the private sector to ensure actions are taken to respond to women’s experiences of sexual harassment. Purnal will be asking women to share their experiences of sexual harassment and assault and secondly, ask for examples of good practices, policies and laws dealing with harassment. "Women around the world have given notice to impunity for such violence and abuse and they are right. There is an urgent need to build on the current momentum to respond, prevent and stop sexual harassment wherever it is, both within and outside the UN," Mlambo-Ngcuka added. For her part, Purna called upon employers and others in authority to create respectful and safe workplaces. She said there needs to be greater recognition of the regularity and widespread nature of harassment that women face. "Women’s accounts tell the world how pervasive this is and we will support this momentum– we want to hear from you wherever you are. #MeToo has shown women’s powerful solidarity and given notice to abusers." "Our efforts need to be true to victims’ experiences so any accounts shared with us – both good and bad – will help us to see that this initiative for change is aligned with the reality that they face," Purna said. The executive coordinator and spokesperson will draw links with other aspects of violence against women, such as abuse by peacekeepers and humanitarian workers, and gendered discrimination. She will provide advice to the Executive Director and senior management team. She will also engage on other issues related to gender-based discrimination that may develop in the coming months. Click here for fresh political stories