Coast leaders have formed a council of elders mandated to spearhead a unity campaign ahead of the 2022 presidential elections. The council, a subsidiary of the Umoja Summit and made up of 10 mostly former Coast MPs, will meet next week to strategize on how to get the region to speak with one voice. In a meeting on Saturday, the summit identified greed, ‘artificial hunger’, and selfishness as the problems afflicting Coast leadership. Political activist Naomi Cidi, one of the founders of the summit, said Coast leaders are to blame for the region’s underdevelopment because they have been misleading the people. “We have to blame ourselves as leaders because we have not shown the right direction. We are too selfish,” Cidi said. Former Likoni MP Suleiman Shakombo said the region can never unite without its leaders being in one political party with roots from the region. “We can never be united if we are in still different parties. We must have a party that will bring us together,” the former cabinet minister said. The Umoja Summit is an umbrella body that brings together political, religious, social and business leaders from the Coast region, which seeks to unite the people of the region into one strong bloc. Geoffrey Katsole, the summit’s chair, said the region is powerful both politically and economically but its people have been exploited. “We must be economically empowered so that our people are not bought off by politicians from other regions,” he said. The 10-man committee which will start its activities in a fortnight will be chaired by Shakombo. Other members include former MP Chibule wa Tsuma, Reuben Tsuma, Sarah Dama, Mama Kadzo, former Rabai MP aspirant Esther Kondo, who will be the council’s secretary, Jubilee Mombasa county chair Matano Chengo, Dr Keah Norah Barua, among others. “In the past, we failed to bring our people together because we did not involve our elders. They have institutional memory and know, Cidi said. A grassroots campaign will be initiated to sensitize the people on the importance of being united and having a strong political vehicle through which the region will be able to bargain for a bigger national cake. Former Tourism minister Morris Dzoro said electing leaders based on how rich they are is suicidal. “That is the mistake our people have been doing. We have been electing people who have money to become our leaders instead of people with passion about serving the community,” the former MP said. Zubeir Noor, a religious leader, said the Coast cannot speak of unity on empty stomachs. “We must be economically empowered to prevent us from being tempted into being bought off,” said Noor. Cidi said Coast people at the grassroots have no issues about unity. “It is the leaders who are the problem. It is us leaders who show people at the grassroots which direction to follow,” she said noting that civic education is very important Chibule, who vied for the Mombasa governor seat in 2013, said in the past, the Coast leaders were united. “It you dot.com generation that have spoilt that unity,” he said. 