History of examination irregularities in Kenya is as old as our Independence. It is intertwined with the national politics and always gets influenced by the dominant players in the development agenda. The most notable influence in the national examination management is nepotism. Education has been identified as an equalising factor for human beings and, therefore, possession of an academic certificate of whatever level is taken as a key to access many life-improving opportunities such as employment.  POLITICIANS’ INPUT Politicians always sought to influence employment of their supporters. As the country embraced tribalism more as a way of mobilisation, examination results and certificates became a matter of tribal emancipation. Politicians thus went out of their way to ensure that schools in their backyards performed well. They spared no efforts to ensure their schools produced top achievers to leverage on their employment hunting expeditions. Much as education is considered an equalising factor, it is also responsible for the class stratification of our society. This is so because most of Kenyan’s source of income is employment. Accessing employment is almost entirely dependent on education. Within the labour market, staffing is structured in the linear form of subordinate to management. The point of entry into employment, chances of promotion and opportunity for leadership all depend on the level of education that one has. Those who have degrees occupied the management positions; those with diplomas belonged to the middle supervisory roles, while ordinary level certificates opened for one the lower levels of semi-skilled roles, including junior clerks and messengers. Literacy and numeracy skills as evidenced by possession of primary certificates most likely took one to the subordinate cadres of cleaners and groundsmen. That is why emphasis on degrees became a matter of life and death for some Kenyans. Therefore, the leaders identified possession of degree education certificates as crucial in improving the welfare conditions of their supporters and tribesmen who would occupy the leadership positions in the public and private sector organisations. With this realisation and buttressed by nepotism, there has been cyclical inequitable distribution of national resources in the education sector, especially for basic education. Regions that had influential politicians got huge chunks of allocations, while areas considered hostile to the powers that be received token provisions from the national coffers.  FREE PRIMARY EDUCATION While the government declared primary school education to be free 1979, it was more of a pronouncement than practice. Communities, through their political leaders, were advised to take over the responsibility of infrastructural development as well as establishment of new schools. The government restricted itself to posting and payment of salaries of teachers. A curious concept of “teacher motivation” that involved patronising teachers through incentives bordering on bribery was hatched and handed over to the communities as well. Many communities, whose political leaders were not within the inner sanctum of the political establishment could not afford these informal but national arrangements. Schools in such regions became dilapidated, performance of their pupils dwindled and communities blamed and shamed for the state of affairs. Their counterparts with powerful political leaders got better facilities. They were also assured of optimal staffing. The mad race for high marks in the KCPE exam and good grades in the KCSE exam led to indulgence in unorthodox practices by teachers and parents to remain relevant. Knec officials saw an opportunity and sought to profit from the craze. Without a university degree, the future of a Kenyan child appeared bleak. Every effort was made to attain the requisite marks and grades for admission to a desired school or degree course. No resources were spared to ensure the processes were manipulated to produce the targeted results. Parents made demands on their principals to facilitate this enterprise which they were willing to finance. Some Knec officials found an opportunity for minting millions through bribery to support their bloated lifestyles. In the middle were the principals who had no qualms satisfying the appetites on both ends of the chain, while also taking advantage to rent seek through commissions. It became a syndicate, a well-organised network of parents-teachers-Knec association. Soon enough, students joined the bandwagon and no longer hid their disdain for studies but openly demanded exam leakage. Where the leakage appeared to take unnecessarily long, the students went on a rampage. The cartels became brazen in their activities that went beyond manipulating examination results. They not only produced fake certificates but also counterfeit result marks. Cases abound of candidates with fake result slips showing a mean grade of “A” but missing on university admission.  HISTORICAL EVENTS Some historical events in our development trajectory may help put the craze for degree certificates into perspective. As Kenya geared towards Independence, many young people sought further education and training abroad since the colonial education system only provided up to ordinary level at Form Four. The process was tortuous for the pioneer cadres as the group of Gikonyo Kiano, Njoroge Mungai, Argwings Kodhek et al would testify. The pace of development far surpassed the rate of acquiring specialised education and training and thus a new approach was necessary. Then came the famous airlift programmes of Tom Mboya to America and Oginga Odinga to Russia and India. Many of those who benefitted from these twin programmes had been admitted on merit to their respective universities. But their numbers were still not adequate for the labour needs of the independent nation. Soon, some middle-level college grade students found themselves in the US and the USSR through dubious processes. They got admissions because their parents could afford the costs individually on their own or they could mobilise funds through harambees. And since they could not gain direct entry into universities, they got admitted to community colleges where upon graduation they were awarded associate degrees. But when they returned to Kenya, they connived to have these degrees treated as bachelor degrees and they gained employment as such.  APPETITE FOR DEGREES Then Kenya established her universities and the need for scholarships for overseas education no longer was a priority of the government. But the appetite for degree certificates continued to grow boundless. The Indian route to degree education was discovered in the mid-1970s peaking in ethe arly 1980s. It was mostly used by those who missed out on the local university admission after the Kenya Advanced Certificate of Education or did not qualify altogether. The Indian universities were also in various categories and the ones accessed by many Kenyans were at the lower tier, almost similar in stature to the American community colleges. The capital flight to India was immense but it was inevitable because the country had no local private universities to satisfy the demand for degree certificates. The government through the District Focus for Rural Development expanded its operations considerably and required increased supply of university trained manpower at the degree level. This provided huge employment opportunities for the degree certificate holding Kenyans returning from studies in Indian institutions. They were readily absorbed in the public service and many more were recruited as management trainees in the private sector which was now dominated by the Asian community. This group was now calling the shots in society, yet their high school contemporaries, who had lacked funds for further studies were middle level civil servants or factory shop floor supervisors. This caused both envy and competition for further studies to acquire degree certificates, akin to sibling rivalry. In 1989, the government could no longer resist the Structural Adjustment Programmes and demanded that public universities find ways of generating income to meet their recurrent expenditures. The universities found the ever-growing appetite for university education and degree certificates an opportunity to respond to their respective harsh economic circumstances. The university leaders were aware that Kenyans were spending inordinate amounts of money to take their children to universities abroad. Parents would, therefore, make significant savings if their children would get trained in the local universities, which still remained more prestigious than most of those overseas. Thus was borne the Module II programmes commonly and colloquially referred to as “Parallel”. The introduction of Module II degree programmes in 1997 at the University of Nairobi has since grown in leaps and bounds, leading to commercialisation of academic programmes and mass production of undergraduates. This led to adulteration of the quality of university education, forcing the minister of Education to close some institutions, while ordering the auditing of others. When some middle-level tertiary institutions were elevated to universities, some people misinterpreted this decision to mean that the education and training offered by these institutions were now redundant. However, the government was responding to a special need in the technical skills field that was necessary for the attainment of Vision 2030 and correspondingly many more Technical Training Institutes were also established. As a consequence, Kenya today has a large workforce pool with university education. However, research indicates many of them are unemployable and where some are lucky to find job placements, the employers have to retool and redeploy them as appropriate. No wonder industries declare lack of adequate manpower, while on the other hand, the country has many unemployed graduates. There are also many more graduates employed in jobs meant for diploma and certificate trainees. It has been argued that many graduates cannot demonstrate competencies commensurate with the training claimed in their degree certificates. For the second year running, the Matiang’i and the George Magoha reforms have yielded fewer KCSE exam candidates who qualify for university admission. The trend seems to suggest that the numbers will continue decreasing. So, will we have fewer degree holders than the market needs? Or could it be that the hitherto huge demand for degree certificates was artificially created and to whose benefit? The Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Services has twice postponed the release of numbers and names admitted into both public and private universities for degree courses. It is alleged the numbers are not comfortable to the stakeholders.  LECTURERS’ STRIKE The opportunities for degree courses at local universities are dwindling. In a rapidly growing population, thisstate of affairs is a recipe for uncouth practices in higher education bordering on corruption. The inadvertent consequence of these reforms at examination management is that many more Kenyans feel unfairly left out of the degree gravy train. The situation is compounded by the regular and unending lecturers’ strikes. Since 2005, academic staff have gone on strike at least every academic year. The regularity and frequency of these industrial actions of last resort have gained pace in two years. Parents, sponsors and students have to grapple with unplanned long course durations. While previously, the concern was on university closure due to student strikes on issues considered petty, stakeholders now worry more about the next dons’ boycott. The frequent lecturers’ strike cannot be explained in exclusion of the Module II payments. These payments to academic staff for their services have been reducing progressively as the Module II students numbers correspondingly dwindled. There are virtually no Module II students on campus and therefore the dons have nothing to lose pocket-wise by being on long drawn-out strikes. If no new approaches are devised to address the perennial confrontations regarding university staff remuneration, then both the dons and the government will lose. As was the case during the mad rush to Indian low cost (and maybe low quality) universities, means and ways will be found to access degree certificates. The access would be through affordable courses or direct purchase of the same. There are many universities outside of Kenya which would gladly admit the C grade students rejected by local universities. Once they are back with their respective degree certificates, the process of verifying the quality and authenticity of the certificate is weak and prone to manipulation. The direct purchase of degree certificates involves buying a fake certificate at River Road outlets. Alternatively, one would bribe university officials to register and obtain all the requirements of a degree, including transcripts and the certificate. This is where the merchants of impunity come in. The lecturers will have lost an opportunity to entrench an effective mechanism for continual improvement of their package on the one hand. On the other, the government will have lost the golden chance to stem a looming second national brain drain and access to quality and authentic high caliber manpower. The new Cabinet Secretary, Ambassador Amina Mohamed has her job well cut out!  Kanyadudi is a public policy analyst