Kiambu residents have borne the brunt of heavy rains, which have left many gravelled roads impassable and hurt many sectors. The roads are muddy and travelling has become a nightmare. On Friday, the residents told the county to act swiftly and repair the roads before the situation worsens. Tea, coffee and dairy farmers are incurring losses. They cannot ferry their rotting produce. Some use handcarts, donkeys, or porters but take too long to reach the market. The matatu sector is also reeling from losses. Vehicles cannot navigate to their destinations and locals prefer to walk. Some residents plan to petition the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate tender awards. “We now see the kind of work done by those contracted to build our roads. The rains have washed away the murram and most of the roads have no drainage, especially the rural access roads,” Evans Maina from Githunguri said. The residents accused county officials of failing to oversee contractors and ignoring locals.  They complained that they only see earthmovers on site and leaders commission roads but have little knowledge of the projects. “We demand to have good roads as we pay tax. Year after year we complain of poor workmanship. We should put this to rest. Let’s have long-lasting roads in our areas,” Mary Wanjiku from Kiambaa said. The roads in ruins include Kwa Maiko-Gathiruini, Ruiru-Uplands, Githunguri-Nyambari-Uplands and Githirioni-Matimbei-Kinare- Nyanduma. Others are Thogoto-Kamangu, Acretano-Nduma, Limuru-Ngarariga and Ngenia-Kamirithu. Githunguri MP Gabriel Kago said cash for tarmacking Githunguri roads has been allocated but work will start once the rains stop. “I ask my people to bear with me. Very soon they will see work being done. I assure them I’ll be on the lookout to ensure the roads are upgraded according to the required standards,” he said. Kariri Kamau said politicians are happy when the roads are in pathetic state because they can use them to play politics. They promise better roads and when they are elected they preside over shoddy work, which is easily washed away by rains, so they have something to promise again when the next election comes, he said. “Why should we trust these leaders who come with many promises and later take us for fools? This is a way to hoodwink us as they loot public coffers,” Kariri said.