Muslims for Human Rights (MUHURI) has unveiled a biometric card aimed at shielding Lamu fishermen from al Shabaab kidnappings and harassment by security authorities. The 'Mvuvi Card', which was launched on Tuesday, has been given to 500 fishermen while 4,000 others are targeted before the year ends. The card contains registration details of every fisherman - their National ID numbers, the Beach Management Unit they belong to, and their names. The cards have readers given to security officers to enable police to keep tabs on the fishermen, their movement, and exact locations when out fishing in the ocean. Previously, police discovered that al Shabaab recruiting agents, posing as fishermen, were operating on the Lamu waters. With the meticulous manner in which the recruitment was done, it was difficult for the police to identify genuine fishers, hence a mechanism for easy documentation had to be derived. "Fishermen can be monitored to avoid carrying strangers in their boats. This makes them safe and also prevents loss of lives," MUHURI executive director Hassan Abdille said. The 2014 al shabaab attacks in Lamu, which contributed to the extension of the fishing ban, triggered safety discussions with the government. Hundreds of innocent lives were lost in what seemed to be well-coordinated assaults, apparently informed by reliable intelligence. And despite Deputy President William Ruto’s claims of killings being political, al Shabaab always owned up after every mission. Timeless curfews were imposed as a result with the restrictions being extended on as needed basis. There were no clear guidelines on when it would be lifted. Locals bore the brunt as the economy of Lamu and neighboring counties were similarly affected. Working hours were drastically reduced. Some areas were no go-zone as they remained security precincts. Other residents opted to vacate while those who remained had to cope with ambushes and nosedived incomes. The ban specifically affected fishermen whose operations were mostly conducted at night, setting stage for the need for a strategy to ward-off the strikes and shield fishermen from arrests. Other partners behind the cards are county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri, Kiunga Youth Bunge Initiative, and Search for Common Ground. MUHURI deputy executive director Rahma Gulam said: "The importance of collaboration with security agencies in safeguarding their community against criminal activities was the focus." This is when the was conceived. Lamu county commissioner Kanyiri termed the Mvuvi Card idea as a “great milestone in this generation”. "There have been cases of human trafficking and widely reported kidnappings. With the card, recruiting agents can be contained," he said on phone Saturday. Kanyiri said the collaboration has enhanced sea security and safety and that when tragedy strikes, it will be easy to locate victims. "This innovation must be emulated along the Coast stretch from Vanga to Kachani. This will weed out illegal fishers and masqueraders." Said Ali, a fishermen, said they won’t face torture again when out in the seas at night, a time they say they are able to catch more fish. Kiwayu BMU chairman Hashim Lale said fishermen faced difficulties acquiring new national IDs and thus they could not fish. "With Mvuvi Card, the authorities can know we are Kenyans. Sea safety has greatly been improved. Now it will be easy to locate fishermen in the event a boat capsizes," he said. KYBI program manager Stanly Mathenge said they target another 4,000 fishermen to be issued with the security card before the year ends. Click here for the latest political news  