Makueni Government has set up a taskforce to tackle cases of gender-based violence in the County. This follows a public outcry over the rising number of sexual abuse cases committed against young boys and girls in the County. The taskforce comprises of 10 members from the County, the Gender-Based Violence Recovery Center and Nairobi Women's Hospital. It will present its report next week. The report will comprise the modalities of setting up a gender violence recovery centre in Wote, sensitising residents on the same and the budget needed. Read: Shun domestic violence, Makueni couples urged Deputy governor Adelina Mwau said that incidences of sexual assault were on the increase and that it could compromise learning in the area. She said that as part of the government’s decision to support empowerment on gender-based violence and sexual abuses, an outreach program will be initiated in schools. “I am glad to inform you that the government of Makueni County is in the process of initiating a school outreach program for children in our schools,” she said. She was speaking when she closed the sixth edition of the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association-Makueni Chapter at the Travelers Hotel in Mombasa on Thursday. The Deputy Governor decried the alarming levels of sexual violence cases in Makueni County despite the existence of laws meant to deal with perpetrators. Read: Child Abuse rampant in Makueni Mwau appreciated the role played by teachers in nurturing and mentoring young people adding that it required dedication to accomplish. "I wish to state that teachers are role models and mentors and the kind of values that are inculcated in the children have a direct effect on society and the development of our children," said the Deputy Governor. At the same time, Makueni County government has spent Sh265 million on bursaries and scholarships to support students from poor families to pursue education. Mwau said the government is putting more resources on education as it acknowledges it is an investment for the future of the county. She said that the county has also been giving out full scholarships to bright needy students adding that 190 beneficiaries have so far been listed since 2013. She further indicated that 79 students have further benefited from the program this financial year. "The government of Makueni county recognises that education is an investment for our children, being the most important aspect in empowering our youth to become responsible and productive citizens of Makueni and Kenya at large," said Mwau. Click here for the latest political news