It is now official, the Jubilee government worships impunity. Top members of the executive have publicly demanded Parliament’s support to operate above the law. Last week's reckless mockery of the Judiciary by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i for regularly intervening to correct government transgressions against citizens indicts the state. The CS made a passionate plea to Parliament to allow the Executive’s non-cooperation with the Judiciary. This even as the CS, PS Gordon Kihalang'wa and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet smart from being fined for contempt of court. He claimed that some judges are minions of shadowy anti-government forces in civil society and the opposition out to frustrate and stall government operations. Perfect propaganda to justify government illegal actions and toxic impunity that is almost turning Kenya into a banana republic. It confirmed our worst fears—that this government’s routine violation of the Constitution are official policy, sanctioned and engineered from the very top. The confrontation with the Judiciary is just one major symptom of Jubilee government’s determination to operate outside the Constitution. Some Kenyans whom the government’s unconstitutional actions have rubbed the wrong way have successfully sued and subsequent corrective orders, injunctions or punishments meted out against the government officials and departments. The has also illegally persecuted and discriminated against opposition leaders and legislators by snatching their passports, illegally recalling their security details and firearms. It has arbitrary cancelled the licences of independent civil society and politically involved NGOs and closed their bank accounts. It has regularly carried out extrajudicial killings, encroached on the independence of Parliament by micro-managing it, attempted to muzzle the Judiciary, micro-managing independent constitutional commissions and many other sins. Impunity is Jubilee government’s sobriquet. Matiang'i and his team had been summoned for grilling by the National Security Committee over the the illegal double deportation of lawyer Miguna Miguna to Canada, despite multiple court orders prohibiting it. Quickly Matiang’i turned the session into a lecture, to the astonishment of the lawmakers, and did not give them time to interrogate his marathon allegations. He actually cannibalised the purpose of the session. Most likely by design. Cabinet Secretaries are on oath 24-7, just like their boss, the President. They are expected to say the truth and act right at all times in the service of the country and citizens. In his overzealous rush to demonise the Judiciary and justify the injustices government meted out on Miguna, Matiang'i uttered many untruths that amounted to perjury. Lying under oath is punishable. This strengthens the growing determination that he and his team in the ministry are not fit to hold public office. Matiang'i repeatedly told the committee that he was never served with orders to appear in court. A court order to a government officer need not be handed directly to them. Once the office is served this is deemed sufficient. Besides, the orders were issued in open court in the presence of their legal team from the Attorney General's office. An order by a Kajiado court to police officers present in court to take Miguna Miguna to the High Court in Nairobi, where Justice Luka Kimaru was waiting for him, was casually disregarded and he was taken to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and illegally deported. That the CS had the guts to claim Boinnet could not be held liable for Miguna's deportation because the lawyer was not in the custody of police is worse than lying. The people who broke into Miguna’s home in Runda and brutalised him, switched him from one police station to another and bundled him on a plane to Canada were policemen. It was uniformed GSU officers who barricaded Miguna at the JKIA, terrorised everybody, from leaders to lawyers to journalists, before drugging him and deporting him to Dubai. Unless the CS has and is willing to share with Kenyans evidence that the armed men in both scenarios were Police imposters. Then he will tell us why he and IG Boinet did not have them arrested and prosecuted. No semantics, posturing and use of “Kizungu mingi” will save the four from condemnation as lawless officials who have abused office and are unfit to hold public office. ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu-Masaba MP