The NCPB is unable to clear long queues of lorries delivering maize at its depots in parts of Rift Valley. The government says it will pay farmers three months after delivery. The board has introduced new measures, including requiring farmers to fill a form committing not to demand payment within three months after delivering maize to the NCPB. The government owes maize farmers more than Sh4 billion. But the farmers have protested that delaying payment for three months will greatly inconvenience them. “We have reached a point where the government needs to clearly tell us if it will pay for our produce or not. Farming is a business like any other and the move to hold onto our payments is unfair,” large-scale farmer Thomas Korgoren said. More than 500 lorries are still lined up at the NCPB depot in Eldoret. Many others are at Moi’s Bridge, Kitale and Nakuru. It is feared traders have imported maize from Uganda cheaply to sell to the National Cereals and Produce Board. They buy the maize in Uganda for less than Sh1,800 per 90kg bag and sell it to the NCPB for Sh3,200 per bag. NCPB chief executive Newton Terer yesterday said they have introduced new measures to vet those delivering maize to ensure they are local farmers. “We will soon clear the long queues at the NCPB depots,” he said. The queues have been growing by the day. Import maize Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri has requested for extra funds through the Supplementary Budget to pay the farmers. Kiunjuri, who visited Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu counties last month, said the government had only budgeted Sh7 billion for maize purchase. He said they will need the extra cash after allowing the NCPB to take in all the maize delivered by farmers. In January the government allowed the importation of at least 6.5 million bags of maize from Uganda. But farmers are unhappy with this, saying the NCPB should have first bought all the local maize. “As local farmers, we must be supported to produce more and ensure food security for the country,” Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said. In February, Parliament promised to ensure the price of a 2kg packet of maize does not exceed Sh115. Last month, farmers in Eldoret held protests to oppose the importation of cheap maize from Uganda. The farmers said the NCPB was still receiving maize produced locally. They demanded that the government first pay them for the maize supplied since last December. Agriculture experts, however, have warned that the armyworm invasion and other problems are likely to lead to a decline in maize production. They say the stocks at the NCPB may come in handy during a shortage.