Darwin's quote survival of the fittest depicts a clear picture of the current student enrolment to our universities. The fittest university programme shall survive continuity. The current situation of students’ apathy and non-saleable academic programme is a very worrying trend that Kenyan scholars and decisionmakers must address – frankly and urgently. What ails our universities' programmes? Why aren’t students applying for the many programmes on offer? The answer lies marketability, duplication, and lack of future projection. A week does not pass without an elaborate and costly advertisement in print and electronic media of universities' numerous programmes on offer. The recent public universities' student intake revealed the current situation of non-performing programmes. The fittest programmes will attract students and prevent total closure of the institutions. Some programmes do not need any publicity. They are known and oversubscribed. It is extremely unfortunate that graduate medical students cannot be absorbed in an already impoverished society, yet we are importing doctors from foreign countries who are not acculturated to the local culture. This is pathetic. A closer look at all our programmes in Kenyan universities reveals an overwhelming repetition of the same offer. This is true even within the intra-university and inter-university craze. The reason of this sad trend includes a copy-and-paste practice by the players. No new niche is sought, and no future prediction of market forces is explored. A master’s thesis could be apt to compare the development and actualisation of a new Kenyan university. The findings would unveil a glaring programme similarity across the universities. What went wrong and when did the rain start beating us? Setting up a credible university is tedious, torturous and time consuming. It is not a single short move with a street pronouncement of authority. The work ‘nurture’ means care, protect, assist, develop, and let go after a long time of association. Therefore the up-bringing of a young university goes through a development process and chooses a unique character (course specialisation) to be associated with. There has to be a competent and forward looking group of mentors. The mentoring university looks at many considerations—qualified staff, facilities for planned faculties, programme uniqueness, marketability, and local and international linkages for their products – the students. The Commission for University Education has to a large extent adhered to the laid down procedures and regulations of accrediting universities and award of charter. However, in many times they have been overtaken by some pronouncements, particularly in regard to public university colleges. Political pronouncements for the establishment of new universities have impacted negatively the development of these universities. A quick look at a number of newly established universities shows a worrying trend of academic development. The problem is the speed and unpreparedness of a university college to a full-fledged university. Many of these universities' programmes are duplicates of older universities and are in danger of being closed, hence jeopardising their existence. There was no proper vision beyond the existing programmes from the mother university; rather, the attention was on the staff hunting spree of all cadres, especially lecturers. Poaching from other universities became the strategy. Many university staff migrated to their local community where new universities were created. For instance, there are many who retired to their ‘homeland’ to become vice chancellor or senior professor. This resulted in non-procedural promotions of persons without adequate qualifications. The consequences were grave and are manifesting now. Old programmes from the perceived nurturing universities were copied-and-pasted without proper critique. Courses were adopted with minor editing of units and approved by senates without critical revision. Consequently, there was lack of preparation time, public scrutiny, and relevance of programmes to Kenya’s development. The transformation came at a time when lecturers had to survive in their programmes and started duplicating. I am not saying there must not be similarities in units or contents, but it is worthy note that certain programmes are over-subscribed and urgently need to be closed. Such programmes have become redundant and unsalable. The solution is however bitter and complex; if a programme cannot survive, close it! Eventually, this closure will end up closing or amalgamating universities to become conglomerates. In other words two or three universities come together as a synergy, building on a pact that focuses on research, teaching, and community services while still generating income. I do not think that a university working alone with non-attractive programmes can survive in this era of growing competitive market. Many will pack up and close. The survival and success of a university course depends on market demand and satisfaction. The students and their parents have become so informed that they cannot take courses that will render them jobless. Kenyans have seen so many people gaining university degrees, who are still jobless. Many graduates are idle or do other menial jobs. The employment situation in Kenya is so frustrating that the graduates are engaged in non-productive activities. Kenya is a slow developing nation in job creation; compare the very sad situation of our unemployed qualified doctors. Even with the highly hyped government devolution, which has its pros and cons, our doctors cannot be absorbed in the counties. Some technical institutions that were converted into universities were set to create more job opportunities to the ever growing youth population. This has not been evidenced yet. Perhaps the reality will dawn at the Kenya Vision 2030 projection. What you sow is what you reap. Necessity is the mother of innovation. Jobs must be created by industries and technology. This is possible if we truly revise our programmes in regard to the country’s needs. University senates have a duty to reengineer their programmes and retool staff. Then they shall survive the competition.  Professor at UoN and former vice chancellor of JKUAT ratemo.michieka@uonbi.ac.ke