Four mosques, including Masjid Musa, made the wrong headlines in 2014 as police targeted them for being radicalisation centres, arresting more than 150 suspects and killing one. Four years later, some families are still reeling from the loss of their loved ones, whom they accuse the government of taking away. However, for some families, the raid was timely as it saved many teenage boys from joining the dreaded terror group al Shabaab. Fauzia* (*not her really name) still thanks God for sending the officers to the raid, which saved her son from joining al Shabaab. She said when her then class seven son became rebellious, she thought it was normal, as the boy was entering the teenage stage. However, she started noticing vigorous behaviour changes. “The boy just wanted to watch religious channels, and most of his talking was about religious issues. His dressing had also changed, from a long Kanzu to a near-knee kanzu, which was unusual,” Fauzia said. Later, she also learnt that the 13-year-old boy had stopped going to school and spent his time in “maskanis”, areas mostly used by drug users. “Upon investigation, I realised that a controversial Muslim cleric, who was later killed by unknown people, was his role model, and he would go to mosque to listen to his teachings,” Fauzia said. At that time, the recruiters had chosen children of eight to 16 years as their target for recruitment. The recruiters would use other youths in convincing the young ones to join them.  INITIATION RITUAL Fauzia says she didn’t know how to handle the matter and her ignorance made it worse. She further pushed her son into extremism as she became tough on him. She says one of the ideologies the recruiters used was to make the teenage boys feel more important than their families did. “They were convinced that they were not supposed to be punished, and therefore, since I punished him, he retaliated and saw me as an enemy and the recruiters as his saviours,” she said. However, the raid at the mosque was timely, as it cut short the plans to fully initiate the son into the terror group. Fauzia said her son was about to be marked as a member by being applied with a special mascara and other initiation rituals. She said the friends he had highly influenced him into extremism. Several of the friends were shot dead by police on various occasions, but the son escaped the bullet. This came as a shock as well as a wake-up call to her son, which made him rethink the path he had chosen. “Seeing some of his friends shot dead instilled fear in him. He slowly started coming to normal,” Fauzia said. She enrolled the boy to a counselling programme in one of the civil society groups in Mombasa, which helped in his recovery. Another family, however, was not as lucky. Their son escaped the raid and made his way into Somalia. Amina, who lost her brother during the raid, absolves the government from claims that they took away their brothers and sons. She said her younger brother showed all signs that he was a convertee who had already joined al Shabaab. It all started when the brother, Ali*, started accusing the government of discriminating against their community. Aisha said in 2013, her brother was among youths arrested in Lamu and linked to al Shabaab. They were charged with being members of al Shabaab, among other terror charges. She said al Shabaab catered for everything to make sure his brother and the other suspects were acquitted. “We were told not to interfere with case, as they had their people to handle it,” Amina said. “And true to their word, they paid for the lawyers, made sure my brother was given bond and they got him a surety.” She said the worst was when the terror group made sure the accused persons were acquitted, as they had promised. Her brother was taken to hospital, having been shot in the leg trying to escape arrest, and he underwent a surgery at the expense of the terror group. After the acquittal, Aisha said her brother only talked about going to Somalia, despite the family discouraging him. “He used to tell everyone that he will be leaving soon for Somalia,” she said.  ESCAPED MOSQUE RAID During the raid at Masjid Musa, Ali escaped from the police dragnet. He disappeared for some time before coming back months later. No one knew where he had gone, and the family thought the police had taken away their son, only to see him reappear months later. Ali got married in a wedding hosted by their father, but months later, he disappeared, never to be seen again. However, in 2016, he left never to be seen again, only leaving behind a note that was found by his wife. The note informed them that he had crossed the border. Ali further ordered his pregnant wife to name their child after his father or mother, as he would not be present during the baby’s arrival. “His wife was devastated but there was nothing we could do, as he was already gone,” Aisha said amid tears. She denied that many youths are recruited to terror groups because of poverty or lack of jobs. She said her brother had a promising future, as he had just been recruited at one of the famous clearing and forwarding companies in Mombasa as a clearing agent. “My father did everything to bring us upright. He made sure we got the best education and everything. But still, my brother joined al Shabaab,” she said. Aisha said several people, including village elders and other local government leaders, tried to counsel him to change his extremist standings, but their efforts were in vain. Asked how the family knew he was in Somalia, she said at the beginning, he used to contact his friend back home. The phone number showed he was in Somalia, and had also informed the friend that he had joined the outlawed group. This has left the family bitter, as they have been forced to live with the effects of having a “terrorist” brother. The family is now the community’s laughing stock, as they are used as an example of bad parenting by their neighbours. “When police are searching for suspects, our house is always the first one to be checked. And if they do not find what they are looking for, they all harass and beat us up. It is so painful for us as a family,” Aisha said.  CIVIL SOCIETY CHIPS IN Counselling carried out by a Coast-based organisation has seen the numbers of young people being recruited to terrorism go down. Haki Africa has been at the forefront of fighting radicalisation and offering a support system to affected families. Haki director Salome Nduta said they are now involving women in fighting radicalisation. She said women are hard hit by radicalisation and need to be made decision makers. Nduta said there is lack of trust of people who have been affected, which makes them fail to come out and talk about terrorism. She said the country lacks a policy on how to handle returnees, or people who were almost recruited to terror group. Finland Ambassador to Kenya Tarja Fernandez said the country now needs political goodwill to fight the menace. Fernandez said terrorism is not a Kenyan problem but a worldwide headache for several countries, which are fighting homegrown terrorism. She said the state has put up good strategies but more needs to be done. “Kenya has the best anti-terrorism strategy, but there is lack of goodwill to implement the guidelines. The political class needs to take terrorism seriously,” Fernandez said. The county of Mombasa has also not been left behind in fighting the scourge, which in recent years has made the tourist county be marked as a hotspot for terror. Mombasa has been in the lists of areas European countries have issued travel advisories against. Munira Hamisi, director of countering extremism at the governor’s office, learned in a trip to Christiansen, Norway, how the country is fighting terrorism from the ground. Hamisi said the fight against terrorism has not been left to the police but involves several state agencies, local communities, schools, the gender department and even religious institutions. “We will be implementing what we saw in Norway, especially how the police work closely with communities and civil society,” she said.