Politicians visiting ailing former President Daniel Moi should not expect to use this as a campaign tool for the 2022 election, Aden Duale has said. Duale, who is Garissa Town MP and National Assembly Majority leader, said this on Thursday, hours after Opposition leader Raila Odinga met Moi at his Kabarak home. Raila's spokesman Dennis Onyango said he visited to wish the ex-President well following his recent hospitalisation in Israel. More on this: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation Raila and those who accompanied him were welcomed by leaders including Tiaty MP William Kamket and Moiben MP Silas Tiren. Duale said Kamket may have been "a bit excited". "Congratulations but this should not excite you," the MP said in an address at Parliament. "Your visit is just an extension of the handshake. Mr Speaker, today the handshake was in Kabarak ... it has moved from Harambee House."  Retired President Daniel arap Moi with politicians who visited him at his Kabarak home on April 12, 2018. /EVANS OUMA But the Majority leader added that the March 9 handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta will have little impact on the next presidential election. He added: "Those visiting Mzee Moi are allowed to go and tell him 'pole (sorry)' because he served us for 24 years. But those who intend to be in the 2022 race ... you don't need such visits ... face we who are on the other side. Since the resolve to work with the Jubilee government, the ODM leader has met politicians including Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo. Raila said he and Kabogo discussed issues relating to the country's welfare. He has also met UK ambassador Nic Hailey. Duale congratulated Godfrey Osotsi for retaining his post as Secretary General of Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress. He said Barrack Muluka, who has been at crossroads with Osotsi, should immediately relinquish the position and wait for an election date. The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal earlier ruled that ANC's decision to appoint Muluka as SG was irregular, null and void. The tribunal also ruled that Osotsi will remain SG until lawful elections are held to replace him. Read: Why Uhuru-Raila pact is best way forward for Kenya Click here for the latest political news