Police stopped an attempted robbery with violence at Mikinduri market in Tigania East, Meru, on Sunday night. OCPD Samuel Kosgey said they responded immediately but that the suspects escaped the police dragnet. They confronted the two suspects at a petrol station in the market where they had attacked Robby Muchui at about 7pm. "We are not sure if Muchui is an attendant, a customer of the owner of the station. The thugs assaulted him with a pen knife and stole his Sh7,000," Kosgey said by phone on Sunday. He said the man was treated at Mikinduri sub-county hospital and discharged and that investigations were launched. A resident identified only as Muthee said it was astonishing for thieves to have the courage to attempt to steal as early as 7 pm. Resident James Mutwiri, who is also the chairman of the area's boda boda operators' association, said the suspects shot in the air when they realised their plan had been punctured. "Several gun shots were heard during the robbery. We are living in fear. Security at Mikinduri is compromised. There is need for more action." He said insecurity incidences had escalated. In the area, two boda boda riders have been murdered and their motorcycles stolen in a span of three months. One incident took place in December 2017 and the other in March. Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea has called for reshuffles in security organs within the constituency. "There is a lot of insecurity in Tigania East. People have a right to be protected. How come no arrests have been made yet two people have been killed?" he said earlier. Locals have accused police officers of laxity and slowly responding to distress calls. They say the most common incidents are break-in at homes and businesses. The OCPD noted that another suspect alleged to have killed rider Edwin Gikundi and stolen his motorcycle early in March, near the market, was apprehended. He said police were interrogating him as he was found with Gikundi's phone. "If he did not attack the rider, he must tell us how he acquired his phone." Read: Meru boda boda riders up in arms after killings, theft Click here for the latest political news