Rift Valley farmers face a shortage of more than two million bags of subsidised fertiliser. Maize farmers are worried the shortage, invasion by armyworms and nonpayment of maize delivered to the National Cereals and Produce Board may cause a 30 per cent drop in production this year. This comes after the government stepped up supplies to high-producing areas of Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia, among other counties. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri flagged off fertiliser in Mombasa last week. More than 30,000 bags are being delivered to the NCPB depot in Eldoret daily. But farmers still scramble for it. “The amount of subsidised fertiliser available now is just a drop in the ocean and far from the quantity we need in the region,” Kenya Farmers’ Association director Kipkorir Menjo said on Saturday after a farmers’ meeting in Eldoret. Farmers accuse racketeers of infiltrating the distribution and diverting thousands of bags of DAP fertiliser used for planting. They are repackaged and sold at higher prices than the Sh1,600 recommended by the NCPB. Menjo blamed the problem on the government’s failure to plan well. Uasin Gishu farmers require more than one million bags but they have been allocated about 362,000 bags. Nakuru needs about 600,000 bags. Trans Nzoia has been allocated about 193,000 bags out of the 400,000 bags needed. Nandi has been allocated about 59,000 bags against the more than 200,000 bags needed. “If the government had planned well, it should have allocated 10 per cent of its budget to the agriculture sector as required in the Maputo Declaration. This would have enabled provision of adequate funds to buy inputs like fertiliser,” Menjo said. The parliamentary Agriculture committee toured Rift Valley last week. Farmers’ representatives signed an MoU and presented it to the committee. The MoU details a 12-point agenda regarding their plight. The representatives include Menjo, Musa Barno, Grey Maina, Kimutai Kolum and Thomas Korgoren. The farmers want the government to clear more than Sh4 billion dues for the maize they delivered to the NCPB. They want more cash allocated to the Agriculture ministry and more for research to tackle pests and diseases. The farmers also want the Agricultural Finance Corporation managed by the Agriculture ministry — not the Treasury so its activities are aligned with farming. Menjo said they want the government to revamp the cash-strapped Agricultural Development Corporation.