The Jubilee administration is planning to raid the coffers of employers to fund its ambitious universal health care project which is part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. In what is likely to trigger uproar from the private sector, the state wants to make it mandatory for all employers to match the NHIF contribution of their employees. The strategy, borrowed from the NSSF, will see the government raise billions in additional revenue since those in the formal sector contribute up to Sh1,700 monthly through compulsory membership. Read : Uhuru launches Sh4 Billion NHIF cover for students The changes will also see the fund change its name to National Health Insurance Fund. The details emerged just a week after Uhuru launched the Sh4.05 billion NHIF medical cover for three million students in secondary schools. Uhuru has narrowed down on food security, affordable housing, manufacturing and affordable health care as his priority in a bid to secure his legacy as he serves his last term. However, funding of the ambitious projects have remained a nightmare as the state scouts for investors to power his agenda. The proposed policy is to be implemented through radical amendments to the NHIF Act 1998 that will also see the employers and employee’s representative kicked out of the NHIF board. In the proposed changes, the new board will have powers to enlist for insurance cover poor Kenyans unable to make contributions. “There shall be paid into the fund such monies as may be appropriated by the National Assembly out of the Consolidated Fund, for persons certified by the Board to be unable to pay the contributions,” the amendments state. The changes are contained in the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments ) (No.2 ) Bill of 2018 and sponsored by Majority leader Aden Duale. The NHIF received Sh28.4 billion from contributions alone, mostly from workers in the 2015-16 financial year according to the funds latest audit reports. However, the fund in its strategic plan envisions revenue collection of over Sh40 billion by the end of the 2017-18 financial year. This means employers could part with additional Sh40 billion from their accounts since they have to match the contribution of employees. In the new changes, the NHIF would be able to cover optical services. Since 2015, the NHIF has covered cancer treatment, including chemotherapy, radiotherapy, CT and MRI scans and monthly clinic check-ups. TO BE KICKED OUT? The changes give the board powers to enter into contracts which oversee specialised healthcare providers for provision of specialised treatment not available in the Kenya. The amendments also seek to tie the hands of the funds managers on expenditure. The changes seek to make it mandatory that administrative cost shall not exceed 15 per cent of the total annual expenditure. Also read : Uhuru directs Matiang'i to enroll secondary students to NHIF from January But a showdown is looming as the government seeks to fire Cotu, the teachers’ union representative and the Federation of Kenya Employers from the NHIF Board. The casualties would be Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori who represents Cotu on the board, ex-Knut chairman Mudzo Nzili and Gilda Odera representing FKE. Also to be kicked out from the board are the director of medical services as well as a representative of the the Kenya Medical Association. Click here for the latest political news