A man was dumbfounded when he went to report a robbery at a police station in Machakos only to find the robbers manning the crime desk. Jervason Kiendi, 33, said the officers robbed him of Sh390,000 soon after he withdrew the cash from a bank. He said they abandoned him on the Machakos-Konza road on Friday. According to a police report at Salama police station, Kiendi withdrew Sh400,000 from Equity Bank and spent Sh10,000 on other transactions within the bank. He then left and walked towards Machakos Referral Hospital but three men grabbed and bundled him into a silver Toyota car at the hospital's gate and drove off. He was beaten up and robbed of the cash by the people who threatened to shoot him. “He got a lift back to Machakos police station to file the report only to find two of the men who robbed him in the report office in civilian clothes,” the police report said. Related: Two robbers arrested at KCB Naivasha after stealing cash from woman inside bank On realising that the victim was there to report the matter, the two officers kept him waiting for long. Kiendi returned to that police station the next day but found the third man manning the reporting desk. The officer did not take his statement, forcing him to travel to Salama where he recorded a statement accusing the officers of the robbery. The matter has been taken up by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in Machakos. The case came just three weeks after a robbery was executed in a similar version in Makueni. On April 9, teacher John Bosco was robbed of Sh430,000 shortly after withdrawing it from a bank in Makueni town. He boarded a matatu to Kathonzweni and alighted at the bus station where four armed men immediately confronted him and introduced themselves as police officers. They handcuffed him and then forced him into a waiting white Toyota Fielder which was driven towards Wote town. Bosco was later pushed from the moving vehicle, sustained injuries to his head and hands. He was later taken to Makueni Referral hospital and admitted. The car used by the robbers, registration number KCJ 642R, was found abandoned on Wote-Kako murram road. After a search, two number plates - KCL 590B and KCM 733J - were recovered from the vehicle. Also read: [VIDEO] Police hunt for robber caught on camera at bank ATM Click here for latest political news