Kuppet has opposed the transfer of 10 secondary school
heads in Elgeyo Marakwet. The head teachers
have been moved by the Teachers Service Commission in a reshuffle occasioned
by its delocalisation policy. But officials of the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers said the transfers came while the school heads prepared for KCSE examinations. Elgeyo
Marakwet Executive Secretary John Chesergon noted on Thursday that school
managers play a crucial role in exam management so they should have been transferred
at the end of the year. Chesergon added that the transfers will disorient school management during the mid term. The transfers
affected Kocholwo, Kimwarer, Kapkitony Girls, St Joseph Kipsaina, Koptega, Santa
Maria Girls' Cheptulon, Kapcherop Boys', Sambirir Girls', Cheborarwo Girls', and Yemit
Girls' secondary schools. “Some of the
affected principals were moved to areas of West Pokot that are prone to banditry. This
is a threat to their lives,” Chesergon said. The unionist also said a section of the transferred heads previously enjoyed hardship allowance but may lose it with the moves. He said TSC
erred in the timing of the transfers also because affected head teachers will be
separated from their families. “We have no
problem with the transfers but they will affect families and destabilise management of schools. Some head teachers will be
forced to relocate to other counties yet they have children who will be
sitting for KCPE and KCSE,” Chesergon said. Those transferred
are required to report to their new stations this week ahead of the opening of schools on Monday. The Kenya National Union of Teachers also opposed the delocalisation policy on April 14, terming it inhumane. National Vice Treasurer James Ndiku said teachers who are about to retire will suffer as they will be moved from
their counties of birth. He added that the
move is against rules of the International Labour Organisation. “This
delocalisation thing is inhumane. It is what the ILO and Teachers International
term workplace bullying,” Ndiku said. Click here for the latest political news