MP Kostany says presidency is not a preserve of those from royal families or the richThe presidency is not a preserve of royal families, allies of Deputy President William Ruto have said. They have promised not to allow the Kalenjin community to be divided into two camps, one backing Ruto and the other supporting Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. Soy MP Caleb Kostany said residents of the Rift Valley region will back Ruto for President in 2022 because he understands the plight of poor Kenyans. He said those eying the presidency "because they are sons of former presidents" will not succeed. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut said they will unite the Kalenjin community behind Ruto. “The region has already decided that its Ruto for 2022 and one else. Those who think they will seek the presidency because their fathers were also presidents are day dreaming," Kositany said. The lawmakers spoke during a tree planting exercise in Soy on Monday. Constituency during a tree planting exercise also attended by Kenya Dairy Board director Margaret Kibogy and Export Promotion Council CEO Paul Biwott. Murkomen and Chepkut who spoke at Chepkoson in Uasin Gishu on Monday cautioned a section of leaders in the region against being used by outsiders to derail DP Ruto’s 2022 ambitions. “We already made our decision as a community and 2022 we will not argue over the same”, said Chepkut. Kostany said Gideon should hold his horses and back the bid by DP Ruto. “DP Ruto has fought his way up and we should not be told that we support someone just because he is rich or a son to a former president”, said Kostany. Chepkut said they would team up as legislators from the from the region and those from other areas to carry out campaigns for the DP Ruto ahead of 2022. Murkomen said those undermining DP Ruto should toe the line or they would not be entertained in the region. Gideon has declared that he may vie for presidency in 2022 but at the moment he fully supports President Kenyatta’s administration.