Quick police action prevented Imbirrikani Maasai morans from burning property at Big Life Foundation in Kajiado on Friday. Armed police flew to the scene, in a helicopter offered by the foundation, after they were informed that about 100 morans were on their way to the property on the slopes of Kyulu Hills. The morans were found preparing to burn down several camps amid a row over grazing land. Upon the arrival of Kajiado South DCC Lawrence Kinyua and journalists, they warned officials against approaching them but said they were open to talks. Area Senior Chief James Likampa told the team that he had asked several elders to talk to the morans but that they had remained adamant. "They had planned to attack Big Life properties as the management of Imbirrikani Group Ranch did not explain to them how they entered a grazing policy with the conservancy." The foundation has leased 700 acres from the group ranch. The morans said they took up arms after their leaders failed to explain why the area next to the leased land was being curved out. The Senior Chief, who managed to cool down the morans for talks with the officials of the group ranch in Oltiasika location, accused the officials of not engaging them and failing to clarify matters. Foundation CEO Richard Bonham and Manager William Graig assured the Maasais that no land was being curved out as alleged. Bonham noted he had never been at loggerheads with members of the community in Kajiado since he started his work in 1986. "It is true that I have leased 700 acres of land from the group ranch for conservancy issues. I do not intend to lease more because I understand this area is meant for their livestock," he said. Group ranch Chairman Daniel Mapi told the Maasais that the management will not interfere with the Oldonyowuas Upper Belt of the 127,000-hectare land because the region is reserved for grazing during drought. “This issue has nothing to do with investors. I see the hand of a politician in this. We, as a community, have set our own grazing rules. During the rains, we tell our people to move their livestock to other open land so we can reserve this area for hard times,” said Mapi. Kinyua thanked the morans for conducting themselves maturely and promised to work closely with them in future. He advised the management of the group ranch to hold regular meetings with members on management issues. Related: Land invasion wrecks Laikipia Also read: Peace caravan seeks to end Samburu-Maasai clashes Click here for the latest political news