Lack of footbridges as well as lack of emergency lanes are among major challenges facing road users along the newly upgraded Outer Ring Road. Although the Outer Ring Road project is still ongoing, both motorist and pedestrians are facing obstacles while using the road. Speaking to the star over the weekend, pedestrians expressed their concern on the lack of zebra crossings and delay in constructing footbridges which have put their lives at risk while attempting to cross. "We risk our lives crossing the road. Until now there is not as single footbridge that has been put up," said Oscar Makori, a resident of Tena estate in Eastlands. Another challenge faced by the users is the lack of emergency lanes. According to the design of the road, If a motorist misses an entry on point one has to continue with the same lane until the nearest round about. "If one is heading to Manyanja Road and misses the entry point, the driver has no choice other than to go through until the Kangundo Road round about then come all the way till Manyanja Road entry point ," said Mary Njambi, a motorist. KURA's chief corporate communication officer John Cheboi yesterdat told the Star that the works on the foundation of the footbridges are ongoing. "The footbridges will soon be installed. It is work on progress," he said. 11 footbridges are expected to be erected all the way from Taj Mall on North Airport Road to GSU headquarters in Ruaraka. Addressing the issue on emergency lanes, Cheboi told the Star the project is not inclusive of such. "We have no provision of emergency lanes in this contract except later when we build the Bus Rapid Transport at the centre of the road. It might also serve as emergency lane," said Cheboi. KURA has urged motorists should learn to use the road properly. " Missing entry points means one is not following the roads signs. The road is an express way and we want to reduce traffic jam," said Cheboi. However, Cheboi said the road signs might look tiny in the eyes of the motorists but once the constructions are over, the dirt will be gone and the signs will enlarged for better vision. "The design of the road meets the current need and use by motorists and pedestrians. It has great value for money and our funders, African Development Bank African Development Bank is very satisfied and happy with the management of the project," said Cheboi. "Kenya National Audit Office (KENAO) has given it a clean bill and the usage and utilization of resources," he added. In addition, July 14th 2018 still remains the d-day for the commission of the Outer Ring Road project. The motorists however applauded upgrading of the road which has helped ease traffic and also shortened the route towards Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. "Before we used to spend up to two hours on the road and the matatus used to be unruly by overlapping and causing unnecessary traffic.But now there is less traffic due to the separation of lanes," said Kimberly Nyangweso,motorist. The Sh8 billion expansion of the 13km stretch was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in January 2015 and was set to be completed in September last year, but failed due to delays in compensation and relocation of services like water and electricity. 