President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday mourned the death of South Africa's freedom fighter Winnie Madikizela-Mandela who passed on after a long illness. The president described Winnie as a heroine and liberator, saying her death was saddening. "Though born before formal apartheid, she came of age in state devoted to White domination. She chose a life of service and valour, qualifying as a nurse, and devoting herself to the struggle for African liberty," Uhuru said. Read: Winnie Madikizela-Mandela dies aged 81 A statement from the family said Winnie passed on at the Netcare Milpark Hospital, Johannesburg, in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones. Winnie was one of the greatest icons of the struggle against apartheid. She fought valiantly against the regime and sacrificed her life for the freedom of the country. Her activism and resistance to apartheid landed her in jail on numerous occasions, eventually causing her banishment to the small town of Brandfort in the then Orange Free State. All the while, her husband Nelson Mandela, with whom she fought the White minority rule, had been jailed on Robben Island. Winnie continued with the freedom struggle until the release of Mandela on November 2,1990. "Africa won its liberty. We who have it can scarcely understand the trials of those who fought for it. In the life of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who endured and won, we see plainly what our freedom cost," Uhuru said. "May her courage inspire us to make the most of the liberty she won for us; may her family be comforted by the memory of her heroic life; and may she rest in perpetual peace," he added. "The Mandela family are deeply grateful for the gift of her life and even as our hearts break at her passing, we urge all those who loved her to celebrate this most remarkable woman," Victor Dlamini, the Mandela family spokesman said in a statement. He said details of the memorial and funeral services will be released at a later date.  Click here for the latest political news