Women and children in Boni have resorted to consulting witchdoctors and herbalists because they cannot reach medical services. Some cases, as council of elders chairman Ali Gubo says, are left to the mercy of God. The minority Boni community in Lamu has missed out on vaccinations opportunities for children. As a result, the children are prone to illnesses that would have been kept at bay had they been vaccinated. The Boni are among Kenya’s last forest community, who live on the Lamu-Somalia border. Hundreds of Boni children have never been immunised against polio, tetanus or malaria. Because of insecurity caused by frequent al Shabaab attacks, the community has missed out on vaccination campaigns. Medics keep away from Boni villages for fear of attack by the militants. The Bonis occupy  Mangai, Mararani, Milimani, Basuba and Kiangwe villages, all prone to terror attacks. Several times a year, and in case of an outbreak, the Health ministry launches countrywide vaccination drives. But the children in Boni  never benefit from such campaigns. The situation got worsse after 2014, when al Shabaab raids became more frequent across Lamu, especially in Basuba. Health workers have been avoiding the village during vaccination campaigns. All dispensaries in the villages have remained closed since the first terror attack in 2014. Others were raided, looted and vandalised by the militants. The community proposed that the government sts up a health centre in one of the villages so they can continue to enjoy medical services for both children and adults. “The buildings stand desolate. Our children are not vaccinated because nobody comes here. This must stop,” Gubo said. Women have a hard time, especially when they are pregnant. They miss out on pre-natal clinic visit and related services. Khadija Gurba, a mother of four from Mangai, says pregnant women deliver at home, which has led to avoidable deaths because herbalists   have yet to find a solution to profuse bleeding which causes a majority of labour deaths. “I lost two children at the hands of a witch doctor who claimed could help me deliver,” she said. Women have gone through hell and for some its ends in tragedy with the death of both mother and baby.