Mombasa Woman Rep Asha Hussein has waded into the controversial polygamy debate asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to lead by example. On Monday, during a workshop on Affirmative Action in Mombasa, the legislator challenged the President to marry a second wife and take her to State House. The Mombasa county MP said majority of the women are against the proposal, and since the president signed the Marriage Bill into law in 2014, "he should then lead in the implementation". "Many women support the idea of legalising polygamy in the country but Uhuru should take the challenge by marrying a second wife and introduce her in the press for all of us to see," Asha said. At first, the MP seemed to be supporting the idea of polygamy, but the women at the hall vehemently opposed it, forcing her to change her tune. She, however, remained non-committal if she supports or opposes polygamy. Read: Kikuyu elders back Gathoni Wamuchomba's call for polygamy The Marriage Bill, which allows men to marry more than one wife, sparked criticism from among women after it was signed. "As women, we are saying that adultery cases are on the rise hence the high number of children born out of wedlock and high rates of STIs." The polygamy debate was reignited by Kiambu woman representative Gathoni Wamuchomba when challenged rich Kikuyu men to marry more than one wife. She said at a public gathering in Kiambu last week that men should marry several wives if they can afford to sustain them. "If you are a man from the Kikuyu community and can sustain five wives, have them....if you are a man and you are in a position to bring up (many children), do it," she said. Asha, whose Islamic religion allows men to marry up to four wives, said even though men are allowed to marry up to four wives, Kenyan women are not ready for the same. "We have heard about the polygamy debate. But a majority of women in the country oppose it. Therefore, we cannot impose it on people," she said. See: [VIDEO] Embrace polygamy to bear more children, Wamuchomba tells Kiambu men Click here for the latest political news