A few days ago, some NASA MPs claimed that Deputy President William Ruto was out to scuttle the unity deal between President Kenyatta and coalition leader Raila Odinga. They cited his opposition to proposals to amend the Constitution to expand the presidency and create the position of executive Prime Minister. “The Constitution belongs to Kenyans and it will amended through a referendum, whether Ruto likes it or not. The expansion of the Executive was one of key shared objectives in the deal,” the MPs said. This is not the first time the opposition has launched a scathing attack on Ruto. In the countdown to the repeat presidential election, they accused of him of sabotaging talks between Uhuru and Raila. During the electioneering period, Kenya was sharply divided and polarised. So, the talks were aimed at healing the wounds and uniting the country. The opposition did not however prove their claims. Ruto was not bothered with the political differences between Uhuru and Raila, which many feared would explode into full-blown chaos. Ruto’s eyes were firmly trained on 2022 succession politics. He believed if the two leaders clinched a deal, it would complicate his plans to succeed Uhuru. But Uhuru’s team was reading from a different script. They believed that without peace and unity, it will be hard for the President to realise his economic growth agenda. Kenyans have been complaining about the high cost of living. Yes, corruption could be one of causes, but the 2010 Constitution is largely to blame. Truth be told. The current Constitution has created a bloated government. This means a huge chunk of taxpayers’ money is spent on recurrent expenditure as opposed to development projects. Before, we did not have the positions of governors, senators, woman reps and MCAs. As for the MPs, the number has increased from 210 to 349. We also have dozens of constitutional commissions and independent offices. During the 2010 referendum campaign, President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila admitted that 20 per cent of the provisions of the proposed Constitution were contentious. They however rallied Kenyans to vote for it and carry out amendments later. For these reasons, I support the current calls for a referendum to amend the Constitution. However, I agree with the Deputy President that the amendments should not be about creating positions for a few individuals. The DP’s position should not be interpreted to mean he is opposed to the Uhuru-Raila deal. The changes should fix the myriad of challenges facing Kenyans.  