I have written in this column regarding the dangers of continuing with a presidential system of government in our nation if we are to safeguard democratic governance, national unity and development. In making this argument, I made a strong pitch for a parliamentary system of government without necessarily going into detail regarding the suitability of this kind of political system to our society in the current juncture and into the future. Today I want to delve into these details, taking into account the fact that we must safeguard, nurture and benefit from devolution as a component of a democratic system of government in a pluralistic society and in a society where issues of equity in development are paramount. Historical evidence shows that countries which gained independence from Great Britain and adopted the parliamentary system of government have generally been politically stable, avoided military coups (or disruptive attempts at the same) and made impressive progress. We can but a few: India, Malaysia, Singapore, and Jamaica. The other former colonies that also adopted the parliamentary system are Canada, Australia and New Zealand, but these remained more or less as dominions of the former British Empire, choosing the British monarch as their nominal head of state. Except for South Africa, which has a Prime Minister who goes under the title President, all other former British colonies in Africa went the presidential route with disastrous consequences in terms of democratic governance, national unity and development. But it is not too late. We in Kenya now have the opportunity to correct this anomaly. A parliamentary system of government begins by recognising that its mission is to safeguard democratic governance. This means that people choose their leaders through competitive free and fair elections and these leaders are accountable to the people while in office. In other words, those who govern are chosen and are controlled by the people. Who, then, votes to choose those who govern? People organised into groups do so. In a parliamentary system of government, people usually come together in political parties so their interests can be represented in Parliament by party candidates. Rules governing the formation of political parties, and how they compete in elections to fight for and represent the interests of their members, must therefore be known and accepted by all interested persons and groups so the process of competition is seen as transparent and fair. The referee in the competition must also be true and genuine, not a partisan political entrepreneur under the guise of captaining an independent institution managing electoral contests.  US AWAKENING Once the representatives of the political parties arrive in Parliament their responsibility is then to make laws, rules and regulations that help govern the nation. In living together in a nation, for example, how are national resources going to be used to make the people’s lives better by dealing with such problems as ignorance, poverty and disease? In general, governments usually raise resources through taxes approved by Parliament and used according to plans approved by Parliament. Hence the cry ‘no taxation without representation’ by those who were colonised by the British in America many years ago. But then this cannot happen smoothly without strong leadership in Parliament. This leadership, where it has worked as in countries mentioned above, has always been done by a prime minister. A prime minister is simply the head, the coordinator, the chief spokesperson and the final bearer of responsibility in a parliamentary system of government. He must be able to reconcile differences, promote consensus and make firm decisions in implementing approved government projects. A prime minister is very different from a President who plays the role of head of state (an extra parliamentary role) and head of government (a parliamentary role). In Parliamentary systems of government, the two roles are separated so that the President becomes the symbol of national unity, the fountain of justice and the last court of appeal in reconciling political differences in Parliament or authorising divorce in a coalition government when differences cannot be reconciled. In this regard, a ceremonial president is a stabiliser in politics and not a mobiliser of political forces. When the President becomes head of government at the same time, the tendency is always to veer to the authoritarian route, whatever safeguards exist constitutionally to ensure parliamentary supremacy. The USA under Donald Trump is currently awakening to this reality, after more than 200 years of being independent from Great Britain. At a subsidiary level of governing within communities organised into administrative districts, counties, precincts, villages or neighbourhoods, a devolved system of governance serves the needs of democracy and development very effectively. Indeed, a devolved system of government is nothing but a parliamentary system taken to the grassroots or the people. What undermines parliamentary governance at the local level is when it is grafted onto a presidential system of government at the national level. It never worked in Kenya soon after Independence and it is not likely to work now. The sooner we correct this mistake the better for the healthy growth of a national democratic and developmental society called Kenya.  WINNER TAKE ALL We do of course realise that these proposals will require substantial amendments to our Constitution, which will definitely need to be put for the approval of the Kenyan people through a referendum. This is a proposal that should be enthusiastically embraced since our memories are still fresh from the debates we have been having since the 1980s regarding what type of constitutional governance we need in Kenya. Constitutions are usually amended more successfully and creatively (if we mean well) during the early years before interests harden and institutions ossify. Moreover, having the debate now will make it easier for the people to address popular causes rather than causes aimed to promote the candidacy of individuals focusing on the very institution under scrutiny: The presidency. I have argued before, and I will continue to argue even now, that premature campaigns for this dreaded office is doing a major disservice to the people of Kenya by derailing our thinking from important national matters. A debate on the Constitution must, and should go beyond the transient interests of individuals in the coming elections. A winner-take-all system of establishing democratic governance does not work in a pluralist society like ours: This too must be debated. The principle of majorities having their way while minorities have their say is only palatable when one finds himself or herself among the so-called ‘majority’ in whatever way it is arrived at. We need to promote consensus democracy in the context of our culture and historical experience if we are to build a national democratic and development oriented country.