Okiya Omtatah has almost certainly become the face of public-interest litigation, having filed more than 150 cases in the past 10 years. Born on November 30, 1964 in Busia, Omtatah is the lastborn in a family of five — the only boy. He is married with four children. The family encourages his activism. The 54-year-old has made a name for himself over the past 10 years, filing suits against government institutions and laws that he feels violate citizens’ rights and freedoms. “I remember my first case was Petition 786 of 2008, which I filed through Kibe Mungai challenging the constitutionality of the National Assembly Salaries and Remuneration Act. The matter was given a three-judge bench, but was frustrated until we abandoned it,” Omtatah says. Read: Matiang'i seemed high on drugs, Omtatah says after attack on judiciary On the way to his office at the National Social Security Building in Upper Hill, Omtatah insists on walking into a cafe at Uchumi House, where he orders a cup of tea and a cob of boiled maize. It is impossible to ignore the number of gazes aimed at him by several patrons. The activist has just stormed out of a National Environment Tribunal sitting, after the panel opted to enforce a ruling that will allow the China Road and Bridge Company to complete sections of the Standard Gauge Railway that cut through the Nairobi National Park. appreciation As he sips his tea, a tall, dark skinned man walks over to the table and picks up his bill, then tells Omtatah, “I have already paid your bill. Thank you very much for fighting for the public.” Omtatah says, “I don’t think people are appreciating me as a person, but that public law has a big role to play in their lives.” “Whenever I see those accolades, people stopping me to say ‘hi’ or buy me lunch when I’m sitting in a restaurant, I do not think they are personally targeting me. People say the law has a liberating element to it and they are just yearning for a way to articulate it.” Despite enduring severe health issues, the activist has managed to make a mark through court cases. Read: Omtatah sues Matiang'i, Mucheru over TV shutdown suffered epilepsy In his early 20s, Omtatah suffered a brain injury, which left him epileptic while he was a philosophy student at St Augustine’s Seminary, Mabanga, Bungoma. This was after completing his high school education in 1983 at St Peter’s School, Mukumu. The condition forced him out of school, but he was to get treatment three years later. This allowed the activist to join Kenya Polytechnic (now the Technical University of Kenya) for a diploma in mechanical engineering. Today, Omtatah’s focus is activism, which he says is funded by his businesses. His office doubles up as a small cyber cafe that also has printing and photocopying services. He is also a cereals trader. “The highest I have ever paid to file a case is Sh20,000, but on average it costs about Sh7,000 per case. I do not drink. What I would have put in beer I plough into my activism. I buy and sell cereals, particularly beans and maize,” he says. Read: Omtatah sues Kinyua for lifting age limit cereals trader “Sometimes I buy grains in Uganda, bring them here and take them to a store in Mombasa and when the prices are good I offload in bulk. It gives a small profit. People also forget that I’m a writer and I have authored seven books from which I get royalties, especially from the United States.” Outside the courtroom, Omtatah spends a lot of his time doing charity work away from the limelight. He is also an avid reader and writer of fiction. Omtatah has a passion for working with the needy and spends a lot of his weekends and free time lending a hand where he can. As one of the first people to file cases representing the oppressed persons, Omtatah was forced to represent himself after a lawyer he hired accepted inducement from high-ranking government officials. Read: Omtatah sues KNEC seeking release of marked exam sheets “I knew he [the lawyer] was compromised because he tried to bring me part of the loot. I was able to take over the matter myself. I still use lawyers I trust. When people come to me, I listen to their cases. If they are of public interest and the individuals cannot afford to file the case, I take it up. If they can afford, I refer them to lawyers I trust,” Omtatah says. Now, a face known by most people who watch or read the news, Omtatah says he will no longer be in the courtrooms come 2020. He intends to set up a foundation to pick up where he will have left off. The activist says several organisations have approached him so they can partner to establish a not-for-profit agency. Read also: Omtatah sues IEBC over 400m polling station cordon, says directive illegal  Click here for the latest political news