Confusion marred the first day of the Fifth Devolution Conference in Kakamega after it emerged some counties had not paid for their delegates. Long queues could be seen at Amalemba Primary School, which was the venue for the accreditation. Those in the queues included delegates, journalists, exhibitors and sponsors. They were seeking clearance from the Council of Governors’ Secretariat. Delegates from Nyamira, Kisii, Meru, Taita Taveta and West Pokot were the worst affected by the confusion. Some MCAs and delegates from the counties were turned away. Some counties made last-minute payments to secure entry for their staff and acquire participating rights at the meeting that ends on Friday. Each county was supposed to pay a mandatory subscription fee of Sh2 million, Sh20,000 more per delegate and another Sh50,000 for their stands at Kakamega High School. This means each of the 47 counties would spend upto Sh15 million in all expenses, including accommodation and allowances. When delegates from affected counties arrived, they were informed their counties had not made the payment to facilitate their participation. An official from Nyamira, who was among those turned away, blamed the county assembly after the MCAs slashed the executive’s Supplementary Budget significantly, hurting the summit’s allocation. “Actually, even as we speak, the ministers are in a meeting in Nyamira trying to see if they can find a way of enabling the county to participate. The MCAs did not understand the Supplementary Budget,” the official said on condition of anonymity. An official from Kisii said some officials were yet to travel as the county executive sought money to facilitate their trip. “We are stranded, but most of the people have travelled. We will make arrangements so all that are supposed to travel do so by close of business today [yesterday],” a senior county executive said. President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga are the key note speakers at this year’s conference. Uhuru opens the event today. Raila will make a speech on good governance tomorrow.