Draft wetlands regulations ban human activities within 30 metres of river and lakeshores and 60 metres from the Indian Ocean shore, a Nema official has said. Wetlands ecosystems are expected to get much more protection following a review of laws governing their management. The Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Conservation and Management of Wetlands) Amendment Regulations, 2018 are set to be reviewed. Nema head of wetlands Stephen Katua said human activities will not be allowed within 30 metres of the shores of major rivers. “For the lakes, activities will also be 30 meters while for the Ocean, it will be 60 meters,” he said. Kenya Wetlands International programme manager Julie Mulonga said many problems are plaguing the wetlands ecosystems. They are both natural and human induced. “The current overload of wetlands in Kenya threatens the country’s water security. This is why laws have to be reviewed,”she said. Wetlands International has been supporting the review of the National Wetlands Regulations for Kenya since April 2017. Wetlands occur where water meets land. They include mangroves, peatlands and marshes, rivers, lakes, deltas, floodplains, flooded forests, rice fields, and even coral reefs. Wetlands act as natural safeguards against storm and flood disasters. This makes them important for protecting communities vulnerable to floods, droughts and storm surges. Kenya’s wetlands are being degraded at an alarming rate through unsustainable human activities such as mining, dredging, building and other activities. This has led to increased disasters such as floods and droughts and reduced community-coping strategies. The draft regulations are ready and will be presented by Nema to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko. He will present it to the Cabient for approval. Then the National Assembly will debate and adopt it. The regulations will provide mechanisms to enforce the Environmental Management and Coordination (Amendment) Act, 2015. It will provide procedures for declaring wetlands protected areas and protect riparian reserves.This is to include demarcation of a  protected zone 50 metres inland from the high-water mark.