The Malindi High Court has started hearing the case of the suspected murder of a Nairobi businessman in a suspected case of a love triangle. Jimmy Baburam was killed while on a family vacation at Medina Palm Resort in Watamu on July 26 2015. The prosecution has lined up 18 witnesses who are to testify this week against Baburam's widow Amina Shiraz who is accused of conspiring with her American lover Jacob Schmalze to kill him. Three witnesses testified before Justice Dorah Chepkwony on Monday. They are Yadit Tesfay, who was Baburam’s step-mother and wife of Rtd Brigadier David Baburam; the victim's brother Obrien Baburam and their former house help Everlyne Nabwire. The three said they suspected Schmalze, a fugitive, had been having an affair with Shiraz before Baburam died. The Mombasa and Malindi courts have both issued warrants for the arrest of the American. Detectives say he fled to the US to prevent murder charges. Shiraz and Schmalze allegedly killed Baburam by causing him to drown in a swimming pool. Read: Malindi court asks Interpol to arrest American fugitive wanted for murder During the proceedings it emerged that Shiraz tried to hide the death of her husband from the family and house helps who were with them during the vacation. Nabwire, who was also on the trip, said she found the American with a forehead injury on the fateful day.  Everlyne Nabwire, the former house help of the late Nairobi businessman Jimmy Baburam, testifies at Malindi High Court, April 9, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI The help said there had been a party that night and that Shiraz and Schmalze sat next to each other. She said the woman asked her not to go to where they were or near the pool. "That was the third time I was seeing Schmalze as I had found him in Nairobi at the late Baburam's home and at the home of Shiraz’s father in Westlands earlier," she said in her testimony. Nabwire said that while going to prepare milk for one of the children the following morning, she found Shiraz crying but did not know why until hotel workers told her about the death. At the sitting room of the villa down stairs, she said, there were many people but she only knew Shiraz and Schmalze. “I went to the kitchen. Amina came to me crying. I asked her why and she said Jimmy was unwell. I asked her if he was sick and she only nodded. Finally she told me her husband drank alcohol and took drugs," she said. Related: Jimmy Baburam was an alcoholic, court told Nabwire said Schmalze had stitches on the right side of his forehead but that she did not get an explanation for this. She said that before the man's death, the American went to his home on a Friday and left with Shiraz until Sunday evening. “When they were leaving, Amina asked Jacob if she was looking good and he replied that she was looking sexy," she said. When Shiraz returned on Sunday, she said she received Sh20,000 via M-Pesa, up from the usual payment of Sh3000 or Sh4000 whenever she worked on Saturdays and Sundays. Shiraz's lawyer Jared Magolo challenged this saying the money was given as a donation for her child's school fees. The step-mother said that on the day Baburam died, she called her father in law and told him he had been admitted. The hospital later called to tell her that he had died.  Obrien Baburam, the brother of the late Nairobi businessman Jimmy Baburam, gives his testimony at the Malindi High Court, April 9, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI  Assistant Director of Public Prosecution Vincent Monda cross-examines Yadit Tesfay, during the hearing of the case on the death of her step-son Jimmy Baburum, at Malindi High Court, April 9, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI Tesfay said Shiraz had a left hand injury and that her hotel room had more than Sh500,000 cash. She also told the court that Shiraz remained behind as they headed to the airport claiming she wanted to clear the bill. Documents from the prosecution show the payment was done by Visa card while while a receipt relied upon by Shiraz's lawyer Ahmed Abdul showed the transaction was in cash. The step-mother also said one of the house helps once showed her an album with photos of Shiraz and the American. Obrien said he knew the American as Shiraz's business partner as he sold dog food and once installed a freezer at Shiraz’s business premise. The hearing continues. Read: Cop accused of murder wants new evidence used Also read: Cop charged with hiding evidence in businessman's murder Click here for the latest political news