At least 1,200 Moi University staff have declared they will intensify their strike until the government implements the delayed 2017-21 CBA. Top officials of the Kenya Universities Staff Union (Kusu) met workers at the university on Tuesday, following the industrial action that began on March 1. Kusu Secretary General Charles Mukwaya asked more than 27,000 members of the union to remain on strike until the CBA is effected. He said they will do whatever it takes to enjoy their rights as they are frustrated. “The strike is going to be escalated, up-scaled and intensified until the government provides counter proposals on the CBA." Related: Amina blames lecturers’ union and strike for delayed CBA talks But Mukwaya noted that frequent strikes are ruining university education in the country. “We have not heard from the national government and the university council on progress regarding the collective bargaining agreement. This is not good for our institutions," he said. He asked Education Minister Amina Mohamed to initiate fresh dialogue with the union so the strike ends. The official said the contentious issues of the deal can be solved not only through talks, but also with serious commitment by the government and university management. "We are ready and willing to enter fresh talks with the government to end the industrial action which has entered its second month. We will not call it off until the government shows commitment and seriousness in addressing our grievances," he said. Kusu has accused vice chancellors and university councils of adopting a don't-care attitude on the strike. Regarding these officials, Mukwaya said: “It’s like they don’t care about what is going on at public universities. That is unacceptable ... they have to discharge their mandate by dealing with our grievances once and for all." The SG further accused universities management and the government of keeping quite as learning and other activities crumble at the institutions. The union's national Organizing Secretary Ernest Wayaya attended the press briefing. Read: State not interested in dealing with our issues, lecturers say More on this: Resolve lecturers' CBA row to end strike, Education International asks CS Amina Click here for the latest political news