Before I proceed with the thing or two we could learn from a gambler about how to live, I’d like to acknowledge that there are Kenyans who have very strong negative feelings about gambling. I’d like to say to these Kenyans who consider gambling a vice (even though it’s legal), that this article is in no way meant to encourage gambling. That said, I believe that in every single thing, whether considered good or bad, there is a lesson. Right, now that we’re done with that for the benefit of the moral police, let us move on to gamblers, and the positives we can pick from them. We’ll start with optimism. Search as far and as wide as you may, you will never come across a more optimistic fellow than a gambler. To a gambler, the glass is always half full. Even when he’s losing, a gambler is exceedingly positive that in the next bet, the next time the cards are shuffled, his luck will change for the better. Optimism, especially a gambler’s kind, is a positive quality in most areas of life. Where gamblers, compulsive ones, go wrong is they don’t mix all that optimism with a healthy dose of reality. That though is an easy fix. Take the positive, the optimism, but maintain a grasp on reality and you my friend will go places far in life. Next up is gamblers look back, especially when they lose. ‘I knew I should have placed my bet on such and such a team,’ is a common gambler’s refrain. Of course it doesn’t help as gambling, the winning or losing, is too random, but imagine how much it would help in life if we looked back, like the gambler, at what we’ve done in the past so that we could do better next time. But here’s the most important thing we could learn from gamblers. Gamblers play to win, whereas the rest of us in life play to ‘not lose’. I am sure I’ll get no argument that there’s not a gambler on earth, who doesn’t play to win. So what is the difference between playing to win and playing to ‘not lose’? When you’re playing to win, you do whatever it takes, leaving it all on the field to pursue what you seek. You’re active, never passive. Playing to win in life is making that call that you fear, having that difficult conversation that needs to be had. It’s dealing with tricky situations head-on even when it involves risk. When you’re playing not to lose on the other hand, you’re overly cautious. You want to avoid mistakes and so you hold back. Instead of doing what needs to be done, you wait. You don’t make that call, you don’t talk to a spouse about problems in the relationship, you never act because you don’t want to take the risk that if you do, you’ll rock the boat. The problem with this kind of caution is when you go through life trying not to lose, it prevents you from having any chance of winning. Playing to ‘not lose’ is borne out of the need for certainty, predictability, security but here’s the thing – Security is mostly a superstition. Life is either a daring adventure or nothing.  – Helen Keller. They do say life’s a gamble. Play to win.