Kenya Wildlife Service has allowed the construction of a new recreation facility at Hell's Gate National Park. The planned amusement park has raised eyebrows with conservationists saying it will be disastrous. and that the proposal has been shrouded into secrecy. The project that is shrouded in secrecy will have two massive towers built between the main wall to Fischer's tower and Buttress. A cable car from Long'onot to Hell's Gate, a multi-tired swimming pool, tethered hang gliders, zip lining are planned on main wall. There are also plans to build a restaurant. . The National Environment Management Authority said yesterday they are yet to formally receive the proposal, before conducting an environmental Impact assessment. Interestingly, the park has no management plan to guide development. It lacks support from the local KWS staff, but has been approved by the head office. KWS acting director general Julius Kimani told the Star yesterday a developer had put a proposal to the KWS Board to have a zip lining, which was approved. "Initially he wanted Aberdare. The proposal was rejected because Aberdare was too sensitive. The Board agreed he could try at Hells Gate because it is already zoned. There are areas reserved for pure conservation," Kimani said. KWS spokesperson Paul Gathitu said a team building centre is what has been planned to be setup. “A developer started work when former director Julius Kipng’etich was at the helm, but did not complete it. It was given to another private developer. The centre is for training and team building. The revenue collected will go to the KWS,” he said. Gathitu said there is nothing sinister as everything was done above board. The environmental impact assessment was done through the laid down channels, he said. Hells Gate is known for geothermal activity, it has a spectacular scenery that includes towering cliffs, water-gouged gorges, stark rock towers, scrub clad volcanoes and belching plumes of geothermal steam. This provides an ideal venue for a day trip from Nairobi where, in addition to the bio-diversity that includes raptors, visitors can enjoy mountain biking, rock climbing and a natural spa. Click here for the latest political news