Kirinyaga woman representative Purity Ngirici has asked governor Ann Waiguru to stop creating sideshows but instead focus on developing the county. She said she will not be intimidated by Waiguru's accusations against her. Waiguru had on April 7 accused Ngirici of paying youths to heckle and embarrass her during Ruto’s Kirinyaga tour when he commissioned the construction of the Gakoigo – Njega’s road "I am asking Waiguru to concentrate on developing the county instead of creating side shows after failing to deliver,” she said. Governor Waiguru called for the arrest of Ngirici and her husband over the heckling incident. She blamed the woman MP and her husband Andrew Ngirici for paying boda-boda youths to heckle her when she stood to address the crowd. “We are dismayed by the statement attributed to the governor and state. We were at no time involved in the planning of the disruption,” Ngirici said. Read: Arrest the Ngiricis over jeers, Waiguru demands She spoke on Saturday at Kandongu primary school in Mwea during a medical camp organized by her charitable organization Ngirichi and Sons rescue team. "Let the governor stop misleading the residents over national government projects, that is the work of legislators, instead she should use the county funds to spur development’’ Ngirichi accused the governor of trying to intimidate security agencies to arrest him claiming he had not done anything wrong. "Let Waiguru stop her cat walking and a lot of English and concentrate on developing the county. We the Ngiricu’s have been using money from our pockets to develop the county", Ngirici, the woman rep's husband said. The woman rep said urged the youths, women and persons with disabilities to apply for the government 30% tenders set aside for them. “It has come to my knowledge that women and youth in Kirinyaga have not gone for the tenders from the county government, I can only follow up if you apply," she said. She said she will assist the youths and women who wish to register companies so that they can benefit from the government awarded tenders. Ngiciri accompanied by Uasin Gishu Woman rep Gladys Shollei also advised women to form groups and Saccos in order to benefit from the women affirmative funds already released by the Treasury. Also read; Waiguru heckled during DP Ruto's Kirinyaga tour, fights back  Click here for the latest political news