Titus Kimani, the popular former Githurai police officer, yesterday was sentenced to 15 years in jail for killing a suspected robber. On March 14, 2013, a woman is said to have made a distress call, which caught the attention of the crime-buster who was on patrol. At the time, the Githurai bus stage had turned into a crime zone where gangs operated at will. Katitu, on spotting the suspect, ran after him, when he caught up with him, he pulled out his pistol and shot Kenneth Kimani three times at close range. After a four-year trial, Katitu, a father of four, yesterday began his life in jail after Justice James Wakiaga said his action of shooting Kimani, who was unarmed, was unjust. “The sentence will serve as a stern warning and a deterrent to other police officers for unlawful use of firearm,” Wakiaga ruled. He will, however, not serve the entire sentence in jail as the judge directed him to serve 12 years in custody and three years in probation. The judge further directed that the four years he has been in remand be considered. This means Katitu will serve about eight years in jail, since he was charged in 2014. The former cop and Githurai resident had pleaded with the judge to hand him a non-custodial sentence, but the judge said Kimani did not deserve to die the way he did. Wakiaga said the court had a duty to “award just sentences”. He said even though Kimani was a well-known robber as it advanced in court, Katitu ought to have arrested him and subjected him to a judicial process. The judge said the case had raised sensitive issues on the popularity of the former officer and the public attitude towards criminals, but he was not going to be swayed by the “rhetoric comments on social and mainstream media”. “The trial was not about the popularity of Katitu or whether the person he shot was a well-known robber or whether he killed the victim’s brother, but about the unlawful use of a firearm,” he said. Wakiaga said the law requires a police officer to identify himself and give a clear warning to a suspect before proceeding with any action. He was categorical that no officer has the right to take the life of a suspect, unless under circumstances provided for in the law, including if there is imminent threat to life. “The convict should have protected the suspect by arresting him, if it is true he was a robber,” the judge said. “I’m not persuaded that his action was just.” Katitu, of the well known Katitu Boys’ Band, shot into the limelight after hundreds of residents, in support of the operation to wipe out criminals in Githurai, blocked the Thika Superhighway for a week protesting his arrest.