The Senate will not allow "cosmetic recommendations" on ending the deadly violence in Mt Elgon, Bungoma county, Nairobi's Johnson Sakaja has said. Sakaja led a team of Senators in an assessment of security in the area on Wednesday. He said the Senate Committee on National Security, Defense and Foreign Relations will seriously look into the region's problems "We are going to look critically at this report and issue an appropriate one. We shall not allow cosmetic recommendations. Real issues affecting the area must be addressed," he told reporters, flanked by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati and Senator Moses Wetang'ula. "Whether the insecurity is politically triggered or [worsened by the] laxity of security teams, we shall make necessary recommendations that will see a lasting solution [implemented]." The Nairobi Senator noted that lives are important so the committee looking into the insecurity must find its root cause. He also noted that Bungoma was the second county the team visited, the first having been Isiolo. "The government needs to draft effective mechanisms to handle matters of security. We urge local leaders to work together and see normal activities restored," he said. Last month, the Western Kenya Human Rights Watch Group released a report detailing the killings in the region. It implicated two politicians and security officers. The report titled 'Whats wrong with Mt Elgon' says 35 people were killed between February 1 last year and February 22 this year. It says the killings resulted from political rivalry between area MP Fred Kapondi and his predecessor John Serut. See: Rivals Kapondi, Serut in middle of Mt Elgon crisis, says rights report Some politicians from the region have differed with the county security team on the crimes. They have blamed police saying they respond poorly to emergencies but the security team has accused residents of failing to give crucial leads to police so they can make arrests. Deputy President William Ruto said security officers shielding or colluding with criminals in the region will be investigated, sacked and prosecuted. He noted the area will enjoy maximum security if residents cooperate with agencies because criminals causing insecurity are locals. More on this: Blame game on insecurity in Mt Elgon Also see: [VIDEO] Gangster Mt Elgon police will be arrested and prosecuted, Ruto warns Click here for the latest political news