Environmental pollution is a deadly problem that is getting worse by the day. The situation has been worsened by the increase in factories. The National Environmental Management Authority is charged with the management, control and prevention of any form of environmental pollution by anybody, individual corporate, government or otherwise. At least 14,000 Kenyans die annually from ailments that can be directly linked to environmental pollution – Nema is supposed to protect Kenyans against this. Kenya hosts the UN Environmental Programme, headquartered at Gigiri, on the outskirts of Nairobi. Kenya is facing a number of critical environmental challenges such as deforestation, soil erosion, desertification, water shortage and degraded water quality, flooding, poaching, and domestic and industrial pollution. It is perhaps from this background that one of Kenya’s multibillion-shilling alcoholic drinks company — London Distillers Kenya Limited — is on the spot over its factory’s pollution of the Athi River. Local residents raised the red flag and the case is now under the microscopic eye of the National Assembly. Nema dispatched inspectors to the ground to investigate the allegations and they established that indeed there was a serious problem. Director general Geoffrey Wahungu ordered the factory closed, but the company defied him. The stage now appears set for a vicious confrontation between the distiller on the one side and the residents, Nema and real estate property developer Erdemann Property Ltd on the other side. The Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources ordered LDK chief executive Mohan Galot to appear before it for grilling in person. Pollution and waste management are critical issues that are increasingly becoming a complex daily nightmare in virtually every county, led by Nairobi. From the national level to the grassroots, there is inadequate accounting for use of natural resources as hundreds of thousands of Kenyans get enslaved by unfriendly environmental practices. Authorities at all levels grapple with inadequate data, research and funding. Statistics from the ministry of Environment clearly show that industrial waste, sewage and domestic waste find their way to major rivers such as Nzoia, Yala, Sio, Tana, Nairobi and Athi. This has rendered the water unsuitable for use. Agricultural chemicals and pharmaceuticals are also a major source of pollution, posing serious health risks to humans, plants and animals. Emission of carbon from vehicles is another major cause of pollution. According to Unep, at least 80 per cent of the world’s waste water is released into the environment untreated, poisoning the fields where vegetables and plants are grown and lakes and rivers that provide drinking water to 300 million people worldwide. According to Unep, seven million people die each year from breathing unclean air. This is one critical area that has incensed Great Wall Garden residents against LDK, which they accuse of releasing untreated industrial waste. Unep also indicates that oceans are filling up with trash so fast that by 2050 there will be more plastics in the seas than fish. Thus Kenya’s decision to ban plastic bags was a major step towards dealing with land, air and sea pollution. Finally, medical research has established pneumonia is one of the biggest killers linked with air pollution. It causes half of all the global deaths associated with air pollution. We need to be able to breathe in our cities, keep dangerous chemicals out of the food chain and stop our oceans from being transformed into an excessively vast plastic soup. Journalist and a media consultant Jobarasa@gmail.com