MPs have summoned wrangling IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and CEO Ezra Chiloba for grilling next week to unearth the cause of bad blood between the duo. The National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs committee chaired by Baringo North MP William Cheptumo yesterday resolved to summon the top IEBC officials and other commissioners for grilling on Wednesday. Cheptumo told the Star MPs are interested in knowing why the commissioners are were embroiled in unending wrangles that have threatened operations of the electoral commission. “We are going to meet the IEBC commissioners next week on Wednesday,” Cheptumo said. He spoke after the committee held a private meeting in Parliament. Chebukati's decision to send Chiloba on a three month compulsory leave has left the commission in chaos. Read: Chebukati defends Chiloba's suspension, says to pave way for probe Chebukati was backed by commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu before he made the decision last Friday. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha opposed to suspension of Chiloba. She reportedly walked out of the plenary meeting that comprised five commissioners when the matter was introduced. Commissioner Paul Kurgat also opposed Chebukati’s decision. It was the second time the CEO was being sent on compulsory leave. Kurgat has opposed the two decisions. Commissioner Margaret Mwachanya was away in Dubai when the meeting took place. “Our committee clerk is going to write to the commissioners for the meeting next week. We are going to discuss various issues. What is happening at the commission is among the agenda,” Justice and Legal Affairs committee vice chairperson Alice Wahome said. Chiloba has agreed to proceed on leave despite terming Chebukati's decision unfair. Chebukati defended his move, saying it was endorsed by a majority of commissioners. Controversies surrounding multi-million tenders ahead of last year’s August 8 General Election and the October 26 repeat presidential poll are believed to be the reasons behind Chiloba's suspension. The procurements included the Sh2.4 billion Information, Communication and Technology tender awarded to Safran Morpho for the modification of the Kenya Integrated Election Management System kits in the repeat presidential election. It is believed Chebukati wants the award of the tenders investigated while the CEO is a way to avoid interference. with the process. The discord among commissioners has seen MPs and political analysts criticize the IEBC officials on grounds the prolonged wrangling puts the commission’s effective operations at stake. The commissioners came up with two key post election audit reports for the August 8 general election and the October 26 repeat presidential. The two reports are supposed to be forwarded to Parliament for debate. IEBC commissioners are also supposed to put in place proper measures to conduct the boundary reviews in the country from next year. Read:CEO Chiloba suspended, IEBC in chaos Click here for the latest political news       