Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa and Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong are seeking a permanent solution for floods that have wreaked havoc in parts of Teso South and Teso North. The two leaders toured Akiriamasi sub-location in Teso South on Sunday where at least 300 families' farms are marooned by floods waters. The flood vicitims are receiving relief food from the national government. Ojaamong said rivers Malaba and Malakisi broke their banks and flooded farms. "Construction of dykes should be priority to avoid escalation of the problem. The county will provide fast maturing maize seeds and other farm inputs to the families to replant their crops after flooding subsides," he said. Wamalwa said flooding in Budalang'i is a perennial problem that requires a permanent solution. "We will build dykes in Teso to end flooding menace. In Budalang'i, the national government and the World Bank have pumped in Sh10 billion for the dykes plan along lower Nzoia," Wamalwa said. They CS said the state will partner with the government of South Korea to set up a Sh5.7 billion dam along River Malakisi in Kocholia. More than 10,000 acres will be put under irrigation. The governments of Kenya and Uganda will also build a Sh5 billion dam along River Malaba for irrigation, Wamalwa said. He said there are 3 million bags of maize in the strategic reserve and no Kenyan will die because of hunger. Teso South deputy county commissioner Solomon Chepoton said 200 bags of maize and beans, 500 bags of rice, 50 cartons of cooking oil and 10 bales of fortified health food, was distributed to flood victims. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi thanked the governor and the CS for responding quickly to the plight of floods victims. Chief Officer in the Office of the Governor Ezekiel Okwach thanked the CS for only taking 72 hours to avail relief food to floods victims. Area village administrator Enaga King said the heavy rains came early than usual with over 20 acres destroyed by the ravaging floods, adding that Mzee Cosma Omung'au, 87, and his family are still marooned in the island with no help forthcoming. Click here for the latest political news