Former Cabinet minister Joe Nyagah yesterday told Embu county to appropriate land given to wealthy people in the disputed Mwea settlement scheme to end bloody attacks. If not, attacks will continue, he told the Star in Embu town yesterday. He cited an attack against a former District Commissioner. Former DC Ireri Ndong’ong’i and three elderly men were slashed with machetes and seriously injured by settlers who oppose the allocation of 44,000 acres to 9,232 people at Mwanjo village in Mbeere South on April 13. Nyagah, a resident of Mbeere South, said wealthy people, politicians and senior government officers were among people allocated parcels during the just-concluded sub-division. Many deserving settlers were left out, he said. politicians blamed “I’m pleading with the people who have large tracts to surrender part of it for others to get land and for peace to prevail. There is enough land for those who are complaining if some people don’t take too much,” Nyaga said. He said historically the scheme belonged to the Mbeere and Ndia people from Kirinyaga county. Over the years, they welcomed settlers from Embu, Kamba and Kikuyu. Nyagah said attempts to ignore poor and deserving settlers during land distribution would complicate the problem and escalate the violence. However, Embu Land executive Josphat Kithumbu yesterday told the Star land was demarcated according to the Constitution. Notices were published in media, all stakeholders and relevant government officers were involved, he said. He denied allegations that wealthy individuals own large pieces of land in the scheme. Kithumbu said the largest individual land owner has 6.6 acres. Only public utilities such as markets, hospitals and schools were allocated more, he said. non-residents Kithumbu said everyone who deserved land was considered, and people complaining are not residents of the scheme. He said they have selfish interests. During the three weeks when beacons were being put on the land, there were no violence because the roads were closed to intruders and settlers never interfered, he said. Kithumbu accused politicians of fanning violence. He said more than half of the beneficiaries of the land have aleady been shown their parcels.