The greedy, prolific armyworm that haunted maize farmers last year is back again, and experts say it is here to stay. And as the national and county governments ponder an effective and long-term solution, farmers are forced to dig deeper into their pockets to protect their yield. The pest has resurfaced in the food basket of Kenya, and for the time being, the only way to control the pest is through chemicals. This is very expensive for farmers, who also have to incur high costs of fertiliser and seeds. Last year, 800,000 hectares were ruined by the armyworm in Western, North and South Rift counties, as well as parts of Central Kenya. Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett said maize harvest reduced by 25 per cent — from the projected harvest of 37 million bags to 32 million bags due to fall armyworm and other factors, including drought and post-harvest losses. This saw unga prices skyrocket to Sh180 a packet. Timothy Njagi, a researcher at Tegemeo Institute, said the armyworm infestation also had an impact on the cost of production due to the high cost of chemicals farmers used to spray the pest. A small-scale farmer spent Sh1,900 per 90kg bag, while a large-scale farmer spent Sh1,400 per 90kg bag. Three per cent of the cost incurred was on chemicals used to spray the worm. Maize official BM Prasanna said in October that the fall armyworm had devastated almost 1.5 million hectares of maize crops in six African countries, including Kenya. By September last year, the pest had caused maize damage worth up to Sh600 billion across the affected countries. Prasanna is the director of the global maize programme at the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre.  DAMAGE CONTROL Agriculture CAS Andrew Tuimur said last week the armyworm problem will not go away any time soon. He urged farmers to be keen in monitoring their maize farms, so they can identify the pest early enough and spray it before it causes more damage. “Farmers should look under the leaf, and if they spot eggs, spray immediately, without waiting until part of the leaves have been eaten. This helps control the worm and reduce the damage,” he told the Star. Tuimur said the ministry has dispatched officials to the ground to assist the affected county governments and advise farmers on the right chemicals to use. He said the responsibility of controlling the pest lies with county governments, hence the need to allocate more resources to mitigate the pest. In February, farmers from Trans Nzoia county urged the government to declare the deadly fall armywormy a national disaster. The county’s Agriculture chief officer Mary Nzomo warned that maize losses will increase, going by last year’s short rains harvest assessment. “Farmers who planted the short rain maize did not harvest. The crop was completely damaged by the fall armyworm, and we are afraid the damage could escalate this long rain season, as the pest’s population has built up since we have not been able to control it,” she said, calling for the pest to be declared a national disaster so the government can mobilise resources to tackle it. This year, the government has allocated Sh300 million to the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation. The funds will be used for rapid assessment and research on suitable chemicals to control the fall armyworm. Another Sh50 million has been set aside by the State Department of Crops to assist in armyworm control where possible. Kalro has listed insecticides farmers should use to control the pest. These include Abamectin + Chlorantraniliprole (e.g., Voliam Targo 063 SC), Lufenuron (such as Match 50EC), Chlorantraniliprole (such as Coragen 20SC), Emamectin benzoate (e.g., Prove 1.92EC), Pyriproxyfen (e.g., Profen 10.8EC) and Acephate (e.g., Orthene Pellet). To prevent pesticide resistance development, Kalro director general Eliud Kireger said farmers should alternate products with different active ingredients, preferably after two applications. “Spraying should be done late in the evening or very early in the morning, when the larvae are active. Direct the spray to the plant whorls (funnel) and top leaves and repeat spraying two to three times to target young larvae that emerge after earlier sprays. This can be done at two-week intervals or as guided by scouting observations,” he said. Kireger told farmers to only buy pesticides from authentic dealers to ensure they get the right chemicals. He also called for natural control of armyworm to be enhanced to allow predators, parasites and diseases of armyworm to naturally control the pest. “Existing natural agents include ladybird bugs, which feed on eggs, birds that feed on pupa and large caterpillars, and fungal and viral diseases that kill armyworm caterpillars. Other management methods that could be considered if confirmed to be effective include biocontrol agents or biopesticides, and application of botanical extracts,” he said.  SPOTTING ARMYWORMS According to a pamphlet issued by Kalro, the armyworms can be identified by a light-coloured inverted Y mark on the head, linking with the middle thin stripe. The worm also has four black dots in a square formation on the rear abdominal segment. The young caterpillars feed on leaves and cause window pane-like damage, initially appearing to only “scratch” the leaf. As caterpillars grow, they feed on large amounts of leaf tissue, causing large, ragged and elongated holes on leaves, leading to a shredded appearance. The caterpillars can also feed on tassels and ears. Caterpillars produce a lot of frass (excreta) as they feed and grow. Kireger said early detection or observation of symptoms of fall armyworm is essential for its effective management. This can be achieved by scouting, which involves walking in crop fields in a systematic pattern to physically look for larvae or damage by the pest every week, starting from crop emergence stage onwards. When monitoring, he advises farmers to look out for cream or grey egg masses covered with wool or cotton-like material on the underside of lower leaves, as well as green, brown or black larvae inside the whorl, particularly young maize. Also look out for leaf-scratching lesions, ragged and elongated holes on the leaves as well as damage on tassels and ears. The armyworm adult moths lay eggs in batches on maize plants, normally on fresh leaves. The white egg masses are normally covered with wool or cotton-like material of the adult moth scales. Larvae emerge from eggs and grow in size as they feed. There are six stages or sizes of larvae, called instars. The young larvae ( 1st to 3rd instar) are greenish or yellowish brown in colour and have hair-like spikes. They are very small and hard to notice. Late-stage larvae are light to dark brown or even blackish, and the hair-like spikes are less-evident. Larvae have three thin, light-coloured stripes along the back.