A tense mood engulfed Bungoma residents yesterday after news about the collapse of Deputy Governor Charles Ngome reached them.
He collapsed on his way to an interview at Royal Media Services’s Sulwe FM. The residents listen to the vernacular station in the morning.
They had been waiting for Ngome to talk about the county’s progress.
But Bungoma county communication officer Tim Machi denied the deputy governor had collapsed. He said he had only gone for a  check up at Nairobi Hospital when  doctors said he could not live immediately.
Machi said Ngome had been fatigued following activities he had engaged in since Friday last week. He only went for check up and had not collapsed as alleged in mainstream and social media.
Ngome had been telling his personal assistant and driver he felt unwell and needed to see a doctor.
Machi said the reports started on Twitter and WhatsApp before spreading to mediahouses.
“His driver picked him up at 6am as planned. They then headed for Citizen offices. I am shocked at how media houses have the wrong report,” he said.
Machi added that the deputy governor spent the night at one of the five star hotels in Nairobi and not Serena as initially reported.
“He laughed when he heard that there were media reports indicating he collapsed. He is in good shape,” Machi said.
Last month the deputy governor’s personal assistant Rev Samuel Musanga and his driver John Wefwila died in a road accident at Bukembe after dropping him off at his Webuye home.
Musanga and Wefwila died at Bungoma West Hospital while undergoing treatment after a road crash.
They were with two other county staff. Wefwila’s spleen was fractured and he had chest injuries.
The 46-year-old driver was employed bythe county in 2014.
The four had just dropped Ngome home in Webuye when they were involved in the crash in Bukembe on the Webuye-Malaba road.
Their car collided head on with a tractor carrying sugarcane.
The driver did not see the tractor, which had no lights. It was raining. Ngoome and Governor Wycliffe Wangamati had earlier visited the staff and described them as hardworking.
Ngome and Wangamati and were both elected on a Ford-Kenya ticket in the August 8, 2017 General Election.
He is a renowned academician from the minority Tachoni community residing in Bungoma county.
The duo unseated Kenneth Lusaka, the first governor of Bungoma, who has since become the Senate speaker.