Christine Ongare bagged Kenya’s only medal in boxing after striking a bronze despite succumbing to Northern Ireland’s Carly McNaul 5-0 at the Oxenfen Studios in Gold Coast. The European dominated all the three rounds as all the five judges awarded her 30-27, 30-26, 30-26, 30-26, 30-26 against the Kenyan. Ongare had started well but as the bout progressed, she started getting tired as McNaul charged towards her. Ongare admitted that while she gave her best in the first two rounds, she could not take it anymore in Round 3 due to fatigue. This was the only medal for Kenya in boxing after the rest of the boxers were eliminated in the earlier stages. “I am not really used to three bouts and the third round took a toll on me,” she said, adding that the bronze medal is good enough for her considering the standards of women’s boxing in Kenya are still low. “In Kenya, we live from hand to mouth and boxing is more like a pastime. For women boxing to grow, we must prove to the upcoming girls that it is worth the trouble and become role models to them,” she said . Ongare appealed to the government to get involved in growing the game. She said her opponent was not as strong as she had expected but lack exposure made it tricky. “My first opponent was more competitive than this one but I think she is strong and has the right training, giving her an edge,” she said. “The only spurring partner I had joined the forces, leaving me all by myself.” She explained that she got into boxing by default but she has no regret. “I wanted to become an acrobat but I failed to make the cut because they only wanted seven participants,” she added. She said her boxing started when she met coach Alfred ‘Priest’ Onalo, who convinced her to join boxing at SOS Outering. “ I then got into novices before getting into international limelight,” said Ongare. She said for her to focus, she needs a job to sustain herself. She featured in 2014 Commonwealth Games, where she was eliminated in preliminaries. She has also featured in 2012 World Championships in China and 2016 Olympic qualifiers but again failed to make the cut. She said she has good experience but lacks that push in training. “We are very few. We started 10 people but we are only three now,” she said. Coach Patrick Maina said Ongare’s opponent mixed her with tactics and by the time she recovered, she was tired. He said Ongare is a good boxer but she needs a lot of exposure. “You find that in a year she only plays two bouts in a year and this is not enough to prepare a player,” he added. He said she also had issues with her weight because she was forced to play in flyweight instead of her light fly category. “ She weighed over 48.6kg, pushing her out of light weight where we put Caroline Mbithe,” he said. She also refused to fit in the flyweight category properly because she had not appetite to eat. This means she was at a disadvantage because she was facing a boxer who had dropped from bantam. He said things would have been different if she had featured in the light fly.