Deputy President William Ruto wants politicians to stop politicking and instead use their energy on developing their counties. Ruto at the same time, reiterated that Jubilee was united. “We have no political camps in our party. We are united and our aim is to bring the country together to eliminate tribalism, division and hatred as well as implement our development agenda for the people of Kenya."Ruto said on Saturday. He spoke during the launch of the Mavuno Daima Dairy cooperative society in Olenguruone, Nakuru County. He said leaders must implement what they promised the electorate prior to last year’s elections. "The only debt we have as leaders for the people of Kenya is development. This is the opportunity for us to serve them because time for politics is over." Ruto said. He also asked leaders to work together and explore new ways of solving problems facing Kenyans. "As leaders we need to unite and forge a common development agenda for our people. Let’s put behind issues to do with politics because everything has it's time." he said. He added that the government was committed to ensuring free primary and affordable secondary education for all Kenyans. He warned of disciplinary action against the management of day secondary schools in the country found demanding fees from students. He also thanked the people of Nakuru for their support since 2013. Nakuru governor Lee Kinyanjui said the county was ready to help farmers form cooperative societies to market their produce. He said investors from United States were ready to invest in the pyrethrum sector at a cost of Sh400 million, saying it will go a long way in addressing the challenges facing the sector. "As county government we are ready to welcome and work with investors whose focus is to help improve the lives of the people through initiation of development projects." Kinyanjui said. Ruto added that the government will improve all roads leading to major agricultural zones to enable farmers transport their farm, produce to the markets and the factories. He said tea farmers would from next year benefit from fertilizers to be supplied by the Government. Click here for the latest political news