Closure of the Garissa-Bura highway has paralysed distribution of humanitarian assistance to flood victims as elected leaders fear a full-blown crisis in Tana River. Governor Dadho Godana said the county has acquired medical supplies, relief food and other assistance for displaced families but the victims cannot be reached because the road has been cut off. Speaking in Bilbil trading centre after an aerial tour of damaged road, Godana called for a permanent solution to the perennial destruction of the road by floods from uphill areas. He said his administration and the national Government will survey the source of the floods and put up a mega dam to “trap” flash flood waters to save the road being swept away. “Every time we experience floods, these sections of the road are cut off. As we speak, four sections of the main highway have been swept away, completely paralysing transport along the road,” he said. “We will sit down with the national government road engineers and come up with a permanent solution to this problem. We can’t remain helpless every time we experience floods. We have drugs and other humanitarian assistance in our store but we can’t distribute them,” he said. The governor was accompanied by Woman Representative Rehema Hassan, Senator Juma Wario, MPs Ali Wario (Bura), Said Hiribae (Galole) and Ali Wario Guyo (Garsen). The leaders blamed “cowboy” contractors for doing shoddy road work that has resulted in destruction following heavy rains. Four sections of the road between Garissa and Bura have been swept away leaving deep gullies. Heavy rains have for the past week pounded the area, causing River Tana to burst its banks. Last week engineers from KEnHA closed the road after an inspection. Those heading to Bura from Garissa will use the Nairobi-Mombasa route. Those coming from Bura will use the Hola-Malindi-Mombasa route. According to the Kenya Red Cross, more than 1,300 people have been displaced by the floods. At least four people drowned  after they were swept away by floods as they were crossing the road.