Auditors and auditing firms in Kenya are on spot as details emerge of how listed companies are cooking financial books to reflect profits, duping investors. At least seven companies including three listed firms have been accused of ‘creative accounting’ in a span of less than five years, putting to question the credibility of auditing firms involved. Although high profile auditing firms like Ernst & Young have been mentioned in such scandals before, the industry regulator, Institute of Certified Public Accountants (ICPAK) has in the past accused of being a mere barking dog. Speaking to the Star yesterday, ICPAK chief executive Edwin Makori said that the disciplinary arm of the institute is handling several cases and will soon issue a comprehensive statement on the status of cases cleared and those pending. "We have penalised rogue practitioners before and we are handling other cases. We are working with collaborating regulators like Capital Market Authorities to smoke out rogue firms and individual practitioners,’’ said Makori. Makori indicated that the institute is investigating Ernst & Young over claims it violated financial reporting rules at Uchumi Supermarkets when it was the retailers external auditor for the retailer starting 2010-2014. He however declined to give more details about pending cases before the institute’s disciplinary committee, citing sub judice. He also fell short of giving examples of penalties issued before. In 2015, Mumias Outgrowers Company composed of over 70,000 sugarcane farmers accused the accounting watchdog of laxity in enforcing disciplinary action against Deloitte and Touche for purportedly aiding the sugar processer to declared false profits and lie about loan owed. ICPAK also come under sharp criticism when Central Bank of Kenya sent three banks into receivership in a period of less than 12 months in 2015-2016. Dubai Bank, Imperial Bank and Chase Bank tumbled with billions of depositors’ money even after their respective auditors gave financial books clean bill of health. On Wednesday, ghosts of professional misconduct returned at ICPAK when CMA fined and suspended six Ex-managers at National Bank of Kenya (NBK) for abetting fraud. Led by the former managing director Munir Sheikh, the chiefs are accused of cooking the lender’s books in 2015 to indicate profits when at least Sh1 billion had been siphoned. CMA’s statement questioned the role of auditors who rubber-stamped false financial books. ICPAK yesterday said that it has commenced investigations in to the matter. Other listed firms that have reported false profits before includes Uchumi which overstated its financial statement for the year ended June 30, 2014 in order to hoodwink the public into buying its rights issue. The fake financial records saw the rights issue raise Sh1.6 billion against the retailer’s target of Sh896 million. Ernst & Young particularly was accused of knowingly allowing publication of false figures in the company’s information memorandum. Uchumi’s debt to suppliers for instance was stated to be Sh1.078 billion yet in its audited financial statements the amount read Sh1.033 billion. The disparity was never explained. CMA also questioned Ernst & Young’s revaluation of Uchumi’s 20-acre land in Kasarani from Sh450 million in 2010 to Sh2.2 billion in 2014 without stating factors for a surge in prices. CMA sued the retailer and demanded Ernst & Young to show cause why disciplinary measures should not be taken against it The once listed CMC Holding which was delisted from NSE effective February 12, 2015 after being takeover over by Al Futtaim Group from UAE saw its funds siphoned by top managers to offshore accounts under the watch Deloitte. CMA in 2012 filed a complaint with ICPAK in relation to the conduct of Deloitte as the independent auditors of defunct motor sell for failing to point out financial malpractices.