The government needs to spur economic growth by revamping bread and butter sectors that are pillars of the economy, analysts have said. According to analysts at ICEA Lion Group, agriculture, transport, trade and manufacturing sectors need to be prioritised in order to enhance economic development. The ICEA Lion Asset Management head of research in East Africa, Judd Murugi, said the combination of these sectors with the momentum provided by emerging sectors would significantly accelerate economic growth. Data from the firm shows that agriculture’s contribution to the country’s GDP was the highest at 25 per cent followed by manufacturing at 11 per cent, while trade and transport each contributed eight per cent of GDP. The emerging sector comprising real estate, financial services, construction and ICT contributed ten, seven, six and four per cent of GDP respectively. Despite posting a higher ratio of the GDP, Murugi said the traditional players had slowed down since 2013, as emerging sectors moved to fill in the gap. ICT, construction and financial services exhibited the fastest growth through the cycle while agriculture and manufacture lagged. “Over the course of the latest economic cycle, GDP growth has been led by the emerging economy rather than the traditional ‘bread and butter’ economy, which could indicate the early stages of a structural transformation of economies in the region in line with well-established stages of economic development,” Murugi said. Some of the challenges straining the traditional sector include policy issues in the case where agriculture land is being converted for real estate use and a lack of value addition for produce. “Most of our produce is exported as raw material then we repurchase it at higher prices as finished goods. This is where manufacturing can play a significant role,” ICEA LION chief executive Einstein Kihanda said. Structural barriers such as cost of power and transport infrastructure have stunted growth of the country’s manufacturing sector, coupled with increased competition from cheap foreign imports. "We however believe this is very scalable in the next 2-5 years,” he said. Despite lower inflation and higher recorded GDP per capita in the country, the prices to consumers still continue to soar. The report shows, over the 2013-17 cycle, Kenya has seen the greatest increase in market prices at 65 per cent. Agricultural products reported the highest price increase during the five-year review period of 144 per cent followed by water and electricity costs grew 93 per cent. ICT was the only sector reporting a 63 per cent drop in prices during the review period. Inflation has been well under control but market inefficiencies have kept market prices on a steep rise,” Murugi said. He added that without clear and well implemented policies to keeping market prices steady, prices would continue to rise. A good example, he said, is in the case of intermediaries with farmers who inflate prices to manufacturers and pay farmers poorly. This, he said was significantly stunting growth.