The National Lands
Commission and Ministry of Education are on the spot for processing
payment of billions of taxpayers' funds to a private firm which does
not possess title deed for a prime land in Ruaraka. Former Education CS
Fred Matiang'i and NLC chairman Muhammad
Swazuri recently approved
partial payment of Sh1.5 billion to Whispering
Palms Estate Limited for a
land hosting Ruaraka High
School and
Drive Inn Primary School. The
payment done on January 29 was part of 3.2 billion compensation for
the 13.7701 acres occupied
by the learning institutions. Read: MPs probe Sh3b payment for Ruaraka school land Lands
Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney affirmed that the company
does not have title deed for
the entire
disputed 96 acre-piece of land hosting
the General Service Unit
headquarters and
the two schools. She told the
committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai that the title
deed is possessed by the office of the Attorney General who is the
“official receiver”. This is after Nyamai
asked: “For how long will the government continue paying billions
of shillings to this private developer? Where is the title deed for
the entire land? Somebody somewhere must be held responsible”. But Swazuri
told the committee last week
that the Ministry of Education will only receive title deed
for the piece of land once the full payment of Sh3,269,040,600 is
cleared. “Once the full
payment of Sh3,269,040,600 is done, the owner of the title deed will
release the title to the Ministry of Education through Treasury. We
paid Sh1.5 billion only as part of the payment,” he said. Read: Two Ruaraka schools say they own city land Read also: Schools don’t own Ruaraka land, says NLC Karoney absolved
herself and her ministry from involvement in any compensation process
to the firm. Karoney accused the
NLC and the Education ministry of processing payments to the company
which claim ownership of the land. She
said the
payments
were
done without proper compensation among all stakeholders during to
justify the compensation. “Public resources should not be spent without proper consultation
among various arms of government. We should have done better than
this. In future, such compensation should have proper consultations
to ensure public funds are well-utilized in this country,” Karoney
said. Details: Firm blames ‘cartels’ in school land row The directors of
Afrison Export and Import Limited and Huelands Limited which are
sister companies to Whispering
Palms Estate Limited claim
they acquired the same land in 1981 from Joreth Limited. They claim the then
directors of the two firms were former Central Bank of Kenya governor
Duncan Ndegwa, the late Njenga Karume and the late Arthur Magugu. “In 1986, the
government controversially constructed two schools within the land,
and just like in the previous moves, no payment was made to the
owners. We have been complaining for the past 30 years,” the
directors noted.  Click here for the latest political news 