Just what informed the last minute U-turn decision to postpone the release of a report on forests activities in the country! A small bird has whispered to Corridors that a very senior official in the presidency might not have been comfortable with the recommendations. The official was part of the dignitaries set to launch the report at Deputy President William Ruto's official residence at 9. Instead, the event was turned into a presentation ceremony but the report was not released to the public. Corridors is informed that timber dealers have not taken lightly the 90 days’ moratorium imposed on them which they claim has destroyed their businesses. Some dealers in Mt Kenya have openly said they will “revisit” the matter at an appropriate time. A senior counsel was over the weekend frantically fundraising from his friends, his target being Sh200 million. The learned counsel organised two events at popular hotels, one in Upper Hill area and the second in Karen, to net the cash. Those in the know say the lawyer openly told his friends he needed the cash for a pending matter. At one point, the lawyer clashed with some of his friends on how the cash should be collected but the urgency left no doubt as to the need. If you thought Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu was only having difficulty addressing crowds then you haven’t got the full picture. A credible mole tells Corridors that Waititu experienced the wrath of the Mt Kenya elite on Friday at a top hotel on the outskirts of Nairobi who are unhappy with the county’s policies. They told him to his face that they are not going to let him go on. The group of politicians and senior government officials vowed to fight back if he does not change his way of conducting government business in Kiambu. Waititu who was accompanied by his deputy, Dr James Nyoro, left the meeting hurriedly. Days after City Hall issued an order directing all hawkers that merchandise foodstuff on unhygienic tables outside City Market stalls to vacate, a huge cartel that collects Sh1000 daily from the hawkers claiming to take to the “Governor’s office” for their protection has been exposed. Well, some traders were heard wondering whether Governor Mike Sonko, who has vowed not to tolerate any kind of corruption, is aware of what's happening at the biggest meat market in town. Besides the corruption ring, of even greater concern is the source of the meat sold by a number of hawkers, which has raised eyebrows.   