Continental conquest might be foremost on Gor Mahia’s mind this year particularly after their impressive 1-0 win over SuperSport United in their round of 32 clash of the CAF Confederation Cup. However, coach Dylan Kerr knows that domestic domination is the heart and soul of this revered football club. Today, K’Ogalo take on Wazito FC in the first of their three games in hand over league leaders Mathare United. Gor go into the match four points behind the table toppers but will be quietly confident they can reel in the pretenders to their throne once level on matches played. With a week to spare before their return leg clash in Pretoria and a deficit to make up in the league, Kerr will likely send on his best 11 for this clash that will see them come up against their former assistant coach Frank Ouna for the fist time ever. The 40 year-old Wazito manager was part of the Gor technical bench as they ended their 18-year league drought in 2013 before going on to win two more successive crowns in a rare period of dominance for Gor. Now his task is to keep his league debutants among the elites, a task he has taken to with aplomb. Gor will have immense firepower upfront with Jacques Tuyisenge, the scorer of the all-important winning penalty against SuperSport, and Medie Kagere once again leading the search for goals. Boniface Omondi, who came off the bench to good effect over the weekend, will likely start in midfield as will namesake Kevin Omondi. Wazito’s hopes of getting anything out of this clash will rely on defence. But should they need him, Pistone Mutamba is a on a rich vein of goal-scoring form and will demand special attention from the Gor rear-guard manned by Haron shakava. Mutamba, Joe Waithira and Ken Wendo have forged an understanding upfront and should it go on for the rest of the season, there is no reason why they should not attain their minimum target of remaining in the top flight league. An unlikely victory over Gor will push Wazito to as high as eighth while three points for Gor will leave them a point behind Mathare with two games in hand.