The UN Habitat office in Nairobi might be split and some functions transferred to New York and Addis Ababa. The proposals, made by a panel appointed last year to suggest how the Gigiri-based agency can be strengthened, have the full support of UN secretary general Antonio Gutteres. Although most countries did not support the recommendation during last year’s General Assembly, Guterres is expected to refine the proposals and present the result as early as this month. The panel proposed creation of a parallel agency called UN Urban based in New York to deal with urbanisation challenges. They said UN Habitat had failed to deliver on this mandate, necessitating a new agency purely focussed on urbanisation. They also suggested the UN Habitat African regional office, currently based in Nairobi, be moved to Addis Ababa where the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa is based “to ensure that UN-Habitat has access to [Uneca’s] enhanced research and analysis of regional issues.”  WEAKENED? The global headquarters would remain in Nairobi. New UN Habitat executive director Maimunah Sharif last week said she supports the strengthening of the agency. But she did not address fears the reform could weaken the Nairobi head office. “It is the moment to strengthen UN-Habitat to ensure we can effectively support countries to implement the New Urban Agenda in collaboration with all the United Nations system, all levels of government and other stakeholders,” she said at her maiden press conference on Thursday. Sharif noted Unep and UN-Habitat were the only UN agencies headquartered in the developing world. She said the UN Habitat would work closely with the Kenyan government, and formed a task force to improve relations with Kenya and other UN agencies based in Nairobi. “As I have committed to the CS of Foreign Affairs Monica Juma and the CS of Infrastructure James Macharia, UN-Habitat is ready to offer its expertise to support the government to achieve its objective of providing one million houses,” Sharif said.