Western Stima opened a six-point gap at the top of the National Super League after beating Kenya Police 2-1 over the weekend. Stima, coached by Ugandan Richard Makumbi, moved to 30 points from 13 matches to enhance their chances of returning to the Kenya Premier League next season. Kevin Okoth gave Stima the lead before James Nthiga equalised for the law enforcers. Former Gor Mahia struck Stima’s winning goal in the 79th minute. Police dropped to fourth on the log with 21 points. Police coach Charles Omondi praised his side despite defeat, saying they will fight to ensure they do not lose any other match. “We had a superb performance from both sides. We lost fairly but we will ensure we do not lose other matches as we push for promotion to the Kenya Premier League,” said Omondi. On his side, Makumbi was full of praise for the Police defence. “Their defence was solid throughout the game. They denied us many chances but at the long last we won and it is good results for us.” Bidco United moved to second on the log after beating Coast Stima 2-0 at Thika Stadium while KCB dropped to third after a 1-1 draw against Kisumu All Stars at Moi Stadium in Kisumu on Sunday. Samuel Ogolla gave the debutants the lead in the 80th minute but Dennis Ng’ang’a struck in the 90th minute to equalise for the bankers. Both Bidco and KCB are on 24 points but the former have a game in hand. Broke Isibania extended their win-less run to five games after succumbing 2-0 to Ushuru at Karuturi grounds in Naivasha. Barrack Odhiambo and Enock Agwanda were on target for the tax men. Following the win, Ushuru moved to sixth on the table with 21 points from 12 matches. Nairobi Stima beat GFE 105 2-0 in another game played at Karuturi. Veterans Joseph Shikokoti and Stephen Owusu scored for Stima. St. Joseph Youth upset Talanta 5-0 at Camp Toyoyo while Nakuru All Stars recorded their first win of the campaign after beating Kakamega High School’s Green Commandos 1-0. In the national Division One, Shabana FC beat Transfoc 1-0 at Cardinal Otunga High School in Mosocho to remain second. Oscar Oketch struck the all-important goal. Eldoret Youth defeated Bondo United 2-0 to remain at the summit with 21 points. Shabana are second with 18 points same as Kisumu Hot Stars but the former have a better goal difference. On Sunday, Kisumu Hot Stars edged St. Joseph’s Academy 1-0 at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. In other matches, Poror Mote beat Trans Mara Sugar 1-0, Raiply edged Griffin, who are yet to win a game in the game 2-1. Bungoma Superstars walloped Nyakach United 7-0 as Silibwet narrowly defeated Timsales 3-2 in a five-goal thriller.