The EACC and the Attorney General’s office have denied that Tanzania has requested the extradition of Kenya Pipeline chairman John Ngumi. A story in the Nation on Sunday, headlined ‘Dar renews efforts for extradition of KPC boss over scam’, said that the Tanzanian authorities had renewed efforts to extradite former Stanbic Tanzania boss Bashir Awale and Ngumi, the Stanbic head of Investment Banking Coverage for East Africa in 2012. Read: KPC boss Ngumi cites witch-hunt in Tanzania's fresh probe into Sh600m bribery scam The Sunday Nation story was immediately taken up by bloggers Cyprian Nyakundi and Robert Alai who called for Ngumi’s removal. On Tuesday, Alai also tweeted a call for a demonstration against Ngumi by Concern Citizens Kenya. The letter notified police of a demonstration on Wednesday lunchtime at the KPC offices, demanding Ngumi’s resignation because of the alleged Tanzania extradition demand. In April 2017, the Tanzanian government asked Kenya to extradite Awale to face charges of fraud. There is no record that Tanzania has ever submitted an extradition request for Ngumi. “We have not been asked by Tanzania to extradite Ngumi,” said an official in the Attorney General’s office. “We have a request from Tanzania for Mutual Legal Assistance for Awale but where Ngumi comes in, I don’t know. They have not asked us to do anything about Ngumi. I was also surprised to see his name in the Sunday Nation,” said a senior official at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The Attorney General is supposed to handle the mechanics of extradition while the EACC handles the investigation aspect. In 2015 Standard Bank, the parent company of Stanbic Tanzania, pleaded guilty to paying a bribe of $6 million (Sh600 million) in a case brought by the Serious Fraud Office in London. The judge fined Standard Bank a total of $32 million ( Sh3.2 billion). The bribe was paid by Awale and Shose Sinare, the then head of corporate banking at Stanbic Tanzania, to secure a government private placement of $600 million ( Sh60 billion) in 2012, according the statement of facts from the London court. The bribe was paid in the form of a hidden extra commission of one percent to an advisory company called Export Growth Market Advisors that represented three Tanzanian officials. Awale handled the transaction with Florian van Hartig, the South Africa based Head of Global Debt Capital Markets for Standard Bank. Technically, Awale reported to Ketili Mbathi, the then Regional CEO for Stanbic Bank in East Africa. However the EGMA transaction was supervised by the London office of Standard Bank so the Nairobi office and Mbathi were not involved in the Sh60 billion private placement in Tanzania. Ngumi’s name did not appear in the judgement or statement of facts in the London case in 2015, nor did any name from the Nairobi office of Stanbic Bank. Rivalries inside KPC may be behind the unfounded allegations against Ngumi. KPC is highly profitable and made Sh8.4 billion profit in 2016. Last year, the Public Investments Committee blocked KPC from paying a Sh11 billion claim from Zakhem International Construction, for a cost overrun on the new pipeline from Mombasa to Nairobi, which is due for completion this month. Click here for the latest political news