Mathare United’s class came to the fore as they saw off a spirited Nakumatt 3-2 to move to the Kenyan Premier League summit. Cliff Nyakenya opened the scoring for Mathare in the third minute but Nakumatt responded from the spot midway through the half courtesy of Donald Musoti forcing the game against many people’s expectations after a 1-1 halftime result. Francis Omondis penalty and a Cliff Alwanga half-volley 15 minutes into the second half killed the game off as a contest with Mosoti last ditch penalty proving a mere consolation for the struggling supermarket giants. Mathare have 20 points from nine matches. When Nyakenya turned in Martin Ongoris perfect cross inside three minutes, everyone expected Nakumatt to fold up and accept their fate. Far from it though. The cash-strapped side rolled their sleeves, determined not to go down without a fight. Alwanga and Nyakenya had chances to add to Mathare’s tally and that only gave Nakumatt a fighting chance in this ‘David vs Goliath battle’. Brian Nyakan and Cliff Kasuti were a constant menace to the Mathare defence and after the Slum Boys failed to clear a corner by John Njoroge, Nyakan had his shot cleared off the line with Mathare custodian Robert Mboya well beaten. Nakumatt continued to dominate and midway through the half, they were rewarded when Omondi brought down Boniface Mukhekhe in the danger zone. Mosoti stepped up to calmly steer the ball beyond Mboya’s outstretched arms to level the scores. Nakumatt continued to dominate territorial possession and only lack of composure denied them an unlikely lead. They suffered a setback when Cornelius Juma limped off with an apparent hamstring injury with Meshack Karani taking his place as the first half ended. The halftime pep-talk seemed to have done the title contenders a world of good and they came out intending to put the game right. Just five minutes in, birthday boy and skipper, George Owino was held down by Mosoti as he aimed to jump for a corner forcing the referee to point to the spot. That gave Omondi the opportunity to atone for conceding a penalty in the first half by converting his, an invitation he took on with glee and put Mathare back in the driving seat. That killed off the little hope Nakumatt had of coming away with something from the game. Six minutes later, they were dead and buried as Alwanga side-footed home Edwin Seda’s cross past Fred Kirimi. Elsewhere, Thika United picked a precious point following a goalless draw at Chemelil Sugar.