Chronic malnutrition has declined from 198.4 million in 2000, when children below the age of five were worst-hit, to 154.4 million last year, a report says. The Global Report on Food Crises 2018 released last week by the Food and Agricultural Organization indicated, however, that stunting rates are high in East Africa, at 36.7 per cent. Stunting takes place when a child cannot grow properly. It results from repeated infections, poor nutrition, and inadequate psychosocial stimulation. Such children fail to reach their full potential for growth. Read: Malnutrition in children at all-time high – Unicef In Kenya, 420,674 children under five years and 39,068 pregnant and breastfeeding mothers were treated for acute malnutrition in urban counties and in arid and semi-arid lands in July last year. The UN report showed acute malnutrition fell from 29.5 per cent to 22.9 per cent between 2005 and 2016. But 155 million under five children still face increased risk of impaired cognitive ability, poor school performance and death from infections. “Africa is the only region where the number of stunted children has risen by 17 per cent — from 50 million in 2000 to 59 million in 2016,” the report states. “While the number has fallen by 35 per cent in Asia, the continent still has the highest number of stunted children at 86.5 million, which is 56 per cent of all stunted children in the world.” Also read: Six counties to face severe food shortage, malnutrition Last year, food security in Kenya deteriorated because of a prolonged drought, which led to reduced supplies of cereals and livestock products and high food prices, especially in southeastern marginal agricultural areas and the northeastern counties. Fall armyworm infestations, conflicts over natural resources and insecurity worsened the situation. A recent national survey indicated 4.1 per cent of children under five years had moderate malnutrition. This was mainly in Turkana, Marsabit and Mandera. In July, when the nutrition situation had degenerated, 26 per cent of children in Kenya were stunted — the prevalence rising to critical stage in West Pokot and Kitui. The Integrated Food Security Phase Classification for Acute Malnutrition conducted in July last year reported critical nutrition situation in Turkana, Marsabit’s North Horr, Baringo, Samburu, West Pokot, Turkana West, Garissa, Wajir and Mandera. The situation in Laikipia was categorised as serious.  Click here for the latest political news