A section of teachers yesterday demanded the resignation of Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion as infighting over leadership positions persist. The teachers, mainly from Kiambu and Nairobi, disrupted operations at the union's national headquarters in Nairobi claiming Sossion was illegally in office. They said Sossion's involvement in politics had hindered quality representation of teacher. The teachers also claimed Sossion could not claim to represent them, saying he had been deregistered from TSC as the union's secretary general. Sossion currently serves as an MP after he was nominated to the National Assembly by the ODM party. Read:[VIDEO] Standoff as teachers stage sit-in at Knut headquarters to eject Sossion Nairobi Knut chairperson Robert Karume said Sossion ought to have stepped down after he was deregistered. Karume said deputy secretary general Hesborn Otieno should take over in an acting capacity pending the determination of Sossion's appeal. Sossion moved to court to overturn a gazette notice by the Labor ministry that kicked him out of union's helm. “Knut secretary general is a full time job. That is the position agreed on during the National Executive Council meeting in December. Sossion must step down,” Otieno said. Sossion dismissed the calls, saying they were political. “This is mere politics in play because the matter on my legality in office is in court. Until determined, I'll remain the secretary general of the union,” Sossion told the Star yesterday. TSC sacked Sossion in January following his move to join politics as an Orange Democratic Movement nominated Member of Parliament. Sossion accepted the ODM nomination to join Parliament without resigning or retiring from service. Regulation 187 (1) and (2) of the Code of Regulations for Teachers requires teachers released to trade unions to resign or retire from service once they opt to vie for political office. Sossion said he saw no reason to quit the service despite becoming a legislator as the section of the regulations that applied required teachers to step down when headed to parliament were teachers seeking elective positions. Why Sossion was taken to parliament Sossion nomination to parliament through the Orange Democratic Movement has however been attributed to the need to represent workers and their special interests. Speaking to the Star yesterday, ODM secretary general, Sifuna Sifuna, the party took in Sossion a dialogue that settled on Sossion as the most suitable person to represent workers in parliament. "Sossion sits in parliament not to engage in politics but to represent and present legislation that will better the working conditions of teachers in this country," Sifuna told the Star on phone yesterday. He however declined to comment on his legality on holding two offices. Also Read:Sossion slams TSC over his sacking Click here for the latest political news   