President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga are likely to unveil a roadmap of their unity pact during this year’s State of the Nation address, the Star has established. Insiders yesterday told the Star the Dialogue Committee is burning the midnight oil to have ready a comprehensive document that will guide engagements between Uhuru and Raila before the MPs’ recess next month. The committee is discussing issues centred around negative ethnicity, lack of inclusiveness, lack of national ethos, electoral justice, devolution, corruption and security. Parliament is scheduled to go on a month-long recess starting May 4. Uhuru is expected to address a joint sitting of the two of Houses before the recess. The address, delivered annually in March, was postponed over Uhuru’s trip to Mozambique, according to State House insiders. But another source told the Star it was postponed to allow the dialogue committee, led by Uhuru’s lawyer Ambassador Martin Kimani and Raila’s lawyer Paul Mwangi, to finish its work. Read:Roll out the peace deal, Wako tells Uhuru-Raila after handshake State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu yesterday said the State of the Nation address is yet to be scheduled, even though MPs expect it to come before the recess. It is during the address that Uhuru will unpack the contents of the dialogue that has been going on for a month now. Yesterday, Nairobi Senator and Deputy Majority Whip Johnson Sakaja – a close ally of Uhuru – told the Star the President is likely to make public the committee deliberations during the State of the Nation address. “... the two events are connected,” he said on the phone. Kenyans impatient National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi said the President should address Parliament before the break. “The State of the Nation address is a constitutional requirement and I know the President must do it within April...We are going to break for a month-long recess from May 4 to June 4, according to the House calendar,” he said. The Suba South MP said the delay to make public the outcome of the committee’s progress was tactical to insulate the talks from interference. “There are too many saboteurs, including those who were a bit apprehensive and those who were very excited. This has to be managed and the lawyers are managing it until the time to announce those details is ripe,” Mbadi said. A month after the historic Harambee House handshake between Uhuru and Raila, the ensuing period has been shrouded in ‘darkness’ on the progress of the committee, causing disquiet within opposition circles. Busia Senator and former Attorney General Amos Wako last week urged the two leaders to hasten the deliberations. He said Kenyans are getting impatient. Read:Raila's supporters frozen in wait for true meaning of Uhuru handshake