It is without doubt that Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential bid in 2022 is coming under severe pressure. Those who have traditionally been against him are gaining new energy in the drive to lock him out of the House on the Hill. Until recently, he had reason to smile when some of his enemies were among the casualties of the political game in the aftermath of the 2017 elections. The subsequent fallout in NASA also afforded him a smile and he must have thanked whatever caused them to be in a state of disarray. But lately events have somewhat conspired to wipe away that smile and replace it with anger, even frustration. Some of his enemies seem to have negotiated themselves to sudden national relevance, putting new hurdles to his 2022 bid. And the Ruto camp is getting exasperated. Recent pronouncements attributed to his right-hand man Senator Kipchumba Murkomen it is clear that Camp Ruto is not sitting pretty at the sudden turn of events. It is a well-known fact that the road to the presidency in Kenya is fraught with hazards, jeopardy and all manner of pitfalls. The DP should not expect that it is going to get any better going forward.  THE MOI FACTOR Th single biggest hurdle that the DP has in the Rift Valley, is the Moi factor. The recent illness and treatment abroad gave the retired President a fresh surge of sympathy. Kenyans generally have a soft spot for the ill, the aged, the dying and even the dead, despite what they did in better circumstances. It appears that only saints undergo these experiences and every obituary is only laced with the finest deeds or achievements of the departed. Nostalgic memories of Moi’s leadership were at the heart and mind of those who knew him as he received treatment abroad. This partly explains the sudden flood of positive emotions towards Moi, despite the cruelty he meted upon Kenyans when he was at the height of his power. It is not lost to any that the death of Kenneth Matiba earlier last week was directly attributable to the unkind treatment he received from Moi. But because he has been ailing, we really speak only the kind words laced with (guilty) sympathy. This remorseful sympathy is largely responsible for the sudden iconisation of Moi and the focus on whoever he shakes hands with and who he is likely to bless for 2022. This is why some have been scrambling to meet him and the Ruto camp have even accused Gideon Moi of selectively and tightly controlling access to the old man. This is really at the height of the sudden focus on Gideon’s candidacy. But going forward, Camp Ruto should pray night and day for former President Moi to remain alive and well past 2022. The opposite will create a sudden surge of sympathy for his son’s candidacy which could distort the ground for Ruto, particularly in the Rift Valley.  THE INCUMBENCY FACTOR Incumbency is a curse for any deputising leader aspiring to replace his boss within the same political dispensation. As the principal deputy of President Uhuru Kenyatta, Ruto will go into the election as the face of Jubilee, warts and all. So far, Jubilee has tried its best to solve the issues of Kenyans in a very difficult operating environment characterised by highly divisive fractious politics. Depending on who you are talking to, Jubilee has had both great successes and great failings. But generally, Kenyans reach a point they get tired of a regime and don’t want a further continuation. DP Ruto must appear to be his own man going forward and not a shadow of Uhuru or Jubilee in general. Uhuru knows very well what that means. He went into the 2002 election as the continuity of the largely abhorrent Moi regime. He failed not because he was an incapable leader but he was just the extension of Moi. This is why he went to 2013 as his own man and not an extension of Kibaki or a member of Kibaki’s tribe. And it worked. Ruto must strongly invest in appearing his own man. And if Uhuru really wants Ruto to be president, he must resign at the start of 2021 to allow Ruto at least 18 months at the helm before Ruto faces the elections. This is the only guarantee that will save Ruto from the curse of incumbency.   CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS Another impactful threat to Ruto is the anticipated Constitutional changes. It began with a drive to change the Constitution led by Tiaty MP Kasait Kamket to create fundamental changes the structure of the Executive. But the URP wing of Jubilee seems the most uneasy in this matter and has marshalled itself to block any developments along this line. Already the House Majority leader Aden Duale has indicated that the Bill will not see the light of day any time. Machinations instituted by Duale have seen Kamket’s baby thrown out with the bath water. But going forward, the Uhurao handshake seems to have opened hope on the part of the former Nasa and the ODM party that there will be fundamental Constitutional changes that will, among other things, achieve the all elusive inclusivity, electoral justice and solve (their) perennial problem with the structure Executive. And herein lies the threat to Ruto. If the Constitution is amended, particularly if there is a change in the structure of the Executive, it could materially alter Ruto’s march to 2022. If we have an executive prime minister, then Ruto has to focus on a wider coalition arrangement with various parts of the country and engaging with new regional (tribal) kingpins for the newly created positions. This introduces a new and unfamiliar dynamic for the Ruto camp and things could not go badly.  THE ENEMIES OF RUTO It is not lost to us that Ruto has a penchant for making powerful enemies. The newest enemies are a set of influential cartels controlling the maize sector in his Rift Valley backyard. It has now emerged that these maize cartels are proving to be a major threat to Ruto. While Ruto was busy doing his work in Nairobi, a quiet league of maize profiteers were flooding the NCPB depots with imported maize edging out the space of the legitimate farmers on the ground. One individual is said to have supplied more than 100,000 bags of maize using the price differential between the imported maize and that State sanctioned buying price. The price differential could be as much as Sh. 2,000 per bag and with those stated volumes, you begin to see the power of the cartels. The Government had worked with a stated budget knowing the usual supply expected from the Rift Valley. This year however, more than the usual capacity of maize has been delivered occasioning an unusual glut and depletion of budgeted payments. Now the delay of the payments has caused demonstrations against the government by frustrated farmers who happen to hail from Ruto’s traditional strongholds. They have made him the focus of their frustration. It is said that the same cartels go ahead and organize demonstrations against the government for payment even paying for hostile Press coverage in order to pressurize the government to pay up. Other than the maize, the same cartels have caused mayhem in the distribution of fertiliser and may even be responsible for the poor response to the fall army worm which could cause a distortion of the maize market dynamics. These are threats that Ruto has to wake up to ahead of his 2022 bid.  SKEWED MEDIA Another fundamental hurdle for Ruto is a hostile Media. As we speak, there is a strong feeling in Jubilee that the media is primarily against it. The raids and closure of Media houses earlier this year has been described as the culmination of a bad relationship with the Media. This wound is not about to heal and will probably be responsible for negative or hostile media coverage around Ruto’s candidacy going forward. Ruto will bear the brunt of much of this particularly in the run-up to 2022. But his rival Gideon Moi controls a substantial portion of the national media which has lately been showing him in positive light. The recent coverage of the meeting between Raila Odinga and retired President Moi got certain sections of Jubilee rather irked and they accused the Media of making a big deal of an otherwise small matter. While UhuRuto also control a section of the media, their portion is really not that significant just yet and if nothing changes, they would easily go to 2022 suffering subtle or even overt negative coverage that could alter the outcome of race.  IEBC WOES The problems in the IEBC are the headache of every politician now, particularly those intending to run for office in the next election. There is no expanded legal framework that properly governs the transitions of the IEBC Constitutional officeholders. The resignation this week of three commissioners makes it impossible for the IEBC to remain functional. This is a major threat to democracy in Kenya and we could sooner get into Constitutional limbo. Worse still, the planned by-elections and review of constituency boundaries may not take place. The proactive action of Kiambu MP Jude Njomo’s Bill could save the day for Kenyans and if it is passed, it could make it easier to appoint or replace commissioners. But the political intrigues around the constitution of the Polls body whether the laws are in place or not, is a major threat. What if a person or set of persons hostile to Ruto’s political bid takes over at the IEBC? The implications could be dire.