Deputy President William Ruto yesterday lashed out at critics of tours of Western Kenya. Speaking at the Fifth Devolution Conference in Kakamega, the DP said he has a special connection with the Luhya. Ruto said his wife Rachel went to schoolat Lukuyani Primary School and Butere Girls High School in Western Kenya. Ruto said he cannot stop visiting the people after paying Rachel’s dowry at Lukuyani after they got married. He told those questioning his visits to the opposition stronghold that the region is his second home. Ruto said the reason why he loves the region is because of the people's hospitality. The gave a me a good "thing" (wife). When you get your better half from a certain county, you obviously have fond memories and feelings for the place, Ruto said amid amusement from delgates. “Governor Wycliffe Oparanya says I come to Kakamega very often. It's true. I got my better half here. My wife went to Likuyani and Butere Girls. I paid dowry at Likuyani,” he said. Oparanya, who has declared he would take on Ruto in 2022 for the top seat, had earlier alluded to Ruto’s visits with a light touch. “I know you love this county and you have been here countless times I can’t count how many times,” Oparanya said. The DP Ruto has been at loggerheads with some politicians from Western Kenya because of politicians over his visits to the region which the last ball of contention the meeting he held with 19 MPs from the region. “So for those for those who have been looking for reasons why am hanging around here, you can have a perfect reason why, aside from the fact that am just neighbor,” Ruto noted. However, politicians led by Former senator Boni Khalwale, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and ANC nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi have warned their colleagues against warming up to Ruto. “We acknowledge the fact that you met Ruto to discuss development matters. However, you must be careful, we don’t want you to be used and dumped again,” Khalwale cautioned the MPs, insisting they should trade carefully. But in his address, Ruto clarified that his meetings and visits to the region that gave him a wife are non-political but full of development to the region. “When you find your better half in a certain county, you obviously have fond memories and feelings about that county,” he noted. “Remember, the bible says he who finds a good wife, finds a good thing,” he concluded Click here for the latest political news