Kenyans posted mixed fortunes as the Commonwealth Games boxing program entered Day Two yesterday here at Oxenford Studios in Gold Coast, Australia. While Elly Ajowi exited the competition early morning, compatriots Shaffi Bakari (light flyweight) and Edwin Owuor (middleweight) defied all odds to keep the fire burning after winning their respective matches to move to the next round. Bakari ran over Namibia’s Matias Hamunyela in the round of 16 of the 46-49kg category while Owuor struggled to beat Sulemani Kidunda of Tanzania in the round of 32. It was sweet revenge for Bakari, who had lost to the Namibian during the 2015 All Africa Games in Congo Brazzaville. Bakari won bronze at the World Championships qualifiers in Congo Brazzaville and represented Kenya at the World Championships in Germany. Coach Patrick Maina said unlike at the All Africa Games, this time they had to change the style and tactics to dispatch the Namibian. “I worked on movement and speed this time round and Bakari had little difficulty getting round his opponent,” said Maina. “The government support came in handy and I am happy to have crossed this stage with two boxers,” he added. Against the Tanzanian, Owour described his fight as very tough. “He is a good opponent but I am happy I sailed through to the round of 16,” said Owuor. However, the Tanzanian fell short of saying that he had been robbed of the fight. “I didn’t do very well in the opening round but I dominated the second and third rounds and I am sure boxing enthusiasts know who the winner is,” noted Kindunda. But whereas Maina agreed that the Tanzania had given a good account of himself, he maintained that Owuor had punched above his weight and deserved the win. “Owuor not only dominated the first round but gave as much as he received in the second and third rounds,” he noted. Maina, however, praised Tanzanian coach Benjamin Musa who has handled both boxers at various stages. “Musa tends to know Kenyan boxers better and it is especially dangerous when we have to face off with our neighbours. I have been with him on many tours and I am forced to change tack when we are drawn against each other,” he added.