Ten aid workers have gone missing
in the South Sudanese town of Yei, a UN official said on
Thursday, the latest incident involving relief staff in the
war-ridden country. Alain Noudehou, the United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator
for South Sudan, said a convoy of UN and other aid workers had
been heading to Tore from Yei, in the Central Equatoria region,
early on Wednesday. The whereabouts of the 10, all South Sudanese, were now
unknown. "We are deeply concerned about the whereabouts of these
humanitarian workers and are urgently seeking information about
their well-being," Noudehou said. Aid workers are often targeted by armed groups operating in
South Sudan, which has been in the grip of war between
supporters of President Salva Kiir and those of his former
deputy Riek Machar since 2013. Tens of thousands of people, including nearly 100 relief
workers, have been killed. Noudehou said of the missing people, one was working for the
humanitarian office UNOCHA, two for UNICEF, one for the South
Sudanese Development Organisation, two for aid group ACROSS,
three for Plan International and one for Action Africa Help. Earlier this week, the International Committee of the Red
Cross said it had suspended operations in Leer after their field
base was shot at on April 10. It evacuated its staff to the
South Sudanese capital Juba. In mid April, rebels said they had freed seven aid workers
detained for nearly three weeks in Central Equatoria on
accusations of spying for the government. An aid worker was also killed when gunmen shot at his agency
vehicle near the northern town of Bentiu. Both rebels and government forces stand accused of targeting
humanitarian workers and sometimes blocking access to relief and
hijacking food and other aid. Lam Paul Gabriel, rebel SPLA-IO deputy spokesman, said he
had received reports of aid workers' disappearance and his
forces were investigating with their commander in the ground. "I am not denying or accepting that we are the ones
responsible for this but we are investigating because that is
our territory, but we should not ruled out the presence of other
armed forces," he said. He said there were also a separate armed group called NASA,
as well as government troops present in the area. "So until we get that report from the ground commander, we
will not be able to confirm," he said. Click here for the latest political news