The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union has urged the state to hire locally trained doctors to plug the shortage of medics. Secretary general Ouma Oluga said the current doctor patients ratio of 1:17,000 should be reduced for better services. Oluga criticised Jubilee administration for signing a deal to hire doctors from Cuba. He said the state should employ the 1,000 Kenyan trained doctors. Read : Doctors slam state over plan to hire Cuban experts Addressing journalists during a free medical camp at Kimira Primary School in Homa Bay on Friday, Oluga said the number of unemployed doctors is expected to rise. “Let the government hire our own trained and competent doctors to reduce the imbalance instead of creating employment for foreigners,” Oluga said. The Jubilee administration signed a deal with the Cuban government to hire about 100 doctors.  TRAIN MORE DOCTORS Oluga said the number of unemployed doctors is expected to rise to 2,400 by April. Oluga said hiring doctors from foreign countries will not end doctors’ shortage in Kenya. He said the only solution is to train doctors in specialised areas. “The government should invest resources in training its doctors to enable the country to have enough medical personnel,” he said. Oluga who was flanked by the union’s Homa Bay branch executive secretary Ben Otieno, Oluga expressed concern over the mass departure of doctors to the private hospitals.  EASE BURDEN The exodus is likely to discourage Kenyans from seeking medical attention in public hospitals. They criticised the World Bank for using unscrupulous methods of privatising the health sector. Oluga claimed the World Bank was sponsoring research studies which portray Kenyan doctors in bad light. Also read : Kenya to import 100 doctors from Cuba, send 50 for special training Otieno said doctors have huge workload. The state should ease the doctors’ burden, Otieno said. President Uhuru Kenyatta has said hiring the doctors is part of the strategy to ensure success of the health pillar - one of the “Big Four” agenda. Click here for the latest political news