Is it a case of cartels fighting back? A tenderpreneur under investigation for alleged corruption dealings has launched a vicious attack against certain officials in CS Eugene Wamalwa’s (pictured) Devolution ministry. Corridors has learnt the businessman lost out in a lucrative tender to supply relief food in areas ravaged by drought after it emerged his firm was being investigated by the EACC for failing to deliver emergency food in a previous tender. Our mole further says the man would secure a tender then demand advance payment before delivering. The notorious firm has, however, launched an offensive against the officials and resorted to blackmail and intimidation of the officers who have refused to engage the firm until it is cleared by the anti-corruption agency. ***** Did top Education ministry officials receive Sh100 million in bribes to authorise compensation for two businessmen claiming ownership of land at the heart of a compensation scam? Corridors is informed panic has gripped the officials after word went round they are destined to be investigated for pocketing the kickbacks from the controversial landowners. A Treasury budget official is also on the spotlight as sleuths seek to unravel the mystery of how the suspect compensation was made without excluding several acres of public land that was also included in the settlement claim. It is only a matter of time before the culprits are nabbed. ***** Wednesday’s demonstrations by university lecturers almost cost the dons their high social standing after it turned into a dance contest rather than a serious protest. The lecturers under the leadership of Uasu secretary general Constantine Wesonga demonstrated along several streets of Nairobi, but what stood out was their spectacular dancing to isukuti rhythms and hilarious jigs. Well, if that’s how to express anger intellectually, well and good. ***** Did KDF fear that ex-NYS servicemen would snub its recruitment due to usual corruption at its recruitment drives? The advert calling graduates of NYS for recruitment at the institution’s headquarters in Ruaraka said a reputable security institution was to hire the former servicemen on April 3 and women aged between 40 and 45. More than 2,000 of them turned up knowing it was the National Intelligence Service only to find army men recruiting. And true to corruption fears, claims are out there that Sh40,000 was demanded of candidates wishing to be hired by the KDF. Most left heartbroken but received calls from the officers to return in what is perceived as KDF’s attempt to redeem its image. But, still, which army recruits entrants of that age?