Newly appointed coach Ian Snook and Murray Roulston from New Zealand will oversee Kenya Simbas trials on Sunday with the help of four Kenya Cup coaches. The coaches include—Paul Murunga (Homeboz), Curtis Olago (KCB), Charles Cadovillis (Kabras) and Frank Ndong (Impala). This is the first time in many years the national 15’s team will be conducting trials at the RFUEA. Snook and Murray Roulston will be looking for players who demonstrate a consistent high work rate, make good decisions and posses strong shoulder dominant tackles. Besides, the candidates will be required to be team players. The final trials are slated for May 6 after which the squad will be finalised for the Elgon Cup and World Cup qualifier with a 30-man squad being announced. Murunga and Olago will handle Team One, which will be compose of Simbas’ skipper Wilson Kopondo, Oscar Simiyu, Moses Amusala, Coleman Were, Frank Khalwale and George Nyambua in the forwards with Israel Soi, Mohammed Omollo and Brad Owako their choice at the back. Ndong and Cadovillis will be in charge of Team Two and will have the likes of Peter Karia, Martin Owila, Andrew Chogo and Phillip Ikalambili in the pack with Samson Onsomu, Nato Simiyu, Jacob Ojee, Nick Barasa, Leo Seje and Darwin Mukidza the key players in the backs. Assistant coach Dominique Habimana expects the trials to be competitive with a lot at stake ahead of Rugby World cup qualifiers. “The intensity and physicality we are seeing bodes well for the upcoming matches,” added Habimana. Elsewhere, Nairobi region winners Swara have drawn against Western runners up Maseno in one of four fixtures that will be played on May 5, according to the draw released yesterday. The second quarter-final pairing pits Western region champions Masinde Muliro University against the winner between Coast region representatives Technical University of Mombasa and Central region runners up MKU Thika. Eldoret RFC, winners of the Rift Valley regional league, will host Nairobi runners up Northern Suburbs while Central region winners Kiambu are at home to Kitale. The semifinals are slated for May 12 May with the final set for May 19.