Each country has their heroes, who have either earned medals for their service in the military or have otherwise put their lives at risk, usually in law enforcement or national security-related functions. In some cases, politicians, too, are celebrated and heralded as heroes, for being arrested, tortured and even killed for agitating for the democratic and human rights of their fellow citizens. The list of heroes in America is too long to reproduce here, because, as one observer has put it, heroes and patriots in the US are made every day by those engaged in the smallest deeds of kindness to the brave soldiers that have given their lives for America; hundreds of thousands of men and women who come from every race, religion and ethic group, leaving their marks on every part of American culture and heritage. Can the same be said about Kenyan national heroes? Do we have so many of them it would be an exercise in futility to try and list them all? The answer is, of course, no. Even the most liberal count cannot list more than the combined total of fingers and toes on the one counting. Who do Kenyans consider as national heroes? The answer depends on whom you ask and how old they are. Ask anyone born before internet browsing first became available in Kenya and they will probably profess ignorance. They don’t even know what a national hero is, an indictment of our education system which is not anywhere as good as it used to be. Ask anyone born before that, then the answer would depend on how close to Independence Day they were born. Those born before and just after Independence will fondly rattle off names of freedom fighters and post-colonial democratic and human rights crusaders. These include Dedan Kimathi, Jomo Kenyatta, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Pio Gama Pinto, Tom Mboya and Ronald Ngala and latter-day fighters like Raila Odinga and Kenneth Matiba. Wikipedia sums up very well what Matiba embodied, noting, at Moi’s behest, he was held without trial at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison in 1990 with Charles Rubia, a member of the Kenyan Cabinet who also called for multiparty democracy. While in prison, Matiba was refused medication and suffered a stroke, which affected half his body and incapacitated him for some time. Later, a multi-party system was instituted and Matiba was released, rightly earning the honour of being one of the founding fathers of multipartyism in Kenya. Matiba is now gone and may he rest in peace. Not long from now, one by one those from the early era of Kenya’s Independence, too, will start their journeys to meet their Maker as death is inevitable. Which begs the question, what does the next generation of Kenyans have to offer? Unfortunately, not the heroism, vision and hunger for a better Kenya many in this generation that will soon leave us — if we don’t beat them to the world yonder — clamoured and fought for to the end. Let the passing of Matiba remind us all, and, more importantly, awaken politicians to the realisation that history will treat you kindly to be remembered as one who defended and fought for the rights of others and not one who trampled on those very rights or stood by in silence as other did so.  Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States  