 Negative ethnicity is one of
those demons that have antagonised Kenyans against each other since Independence. But to know what we may do to
eliminate it, being the main enemy of national unity, we need not reinvent the
wheel. Let us look at what Tanzania and Rwanda have done to eliminate and
minimize negative ethnicity in their economic and political affairs. To start with, negative ethnicity
is officially named by the government and the constitution as first foe of the
country in the two countries. Commissions of fighting negative ethnicity are
also named and empowered by the constitution. There are no untouchables, who
may propagate negative ethnicity with impunity and without consequences. But since nature abhors a vacuum,
when negative ethnicity is banned as an ideology of state, politics, religion,
massacres or genocide, it must be substituted with nationalism as the ideology
of national unity. As negative ethnicity ate up nationalism and tribe ate up
nation, nationalism must eat up negative ethnicity and the nation eats up
tribe. To have national unity, unity of ethnic communities must die. As in Europe and America, where
the Holocaust cannot be denied or anti-Semitism propagated as ideology of any
political party, no one would form a political party with the ideology of
negative ethnicity. Yet in Kenya, ethnic parties and party coalitions are
sprouting and falling every other day. National unity cannot be created
by and left to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. The whole country
must be involved. To start off this project, we are
told Raila will take President Uhuru to all bastions of ODM-NASA — the Luhya,
the Luo, the Kamba and the Coastal communities. That alone cannot bring about
national unity. President Uhuru must also take Raila to all strongholds of
Jubilee — the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin strongholds. As Raila and Uhuru tour the whole
country, they must detoxify ordinary people from ethnic intoxication. Without this,
nationalism will not take root or become our guiding star. Negative ethnicity will also not end
in our universities and other learning institutions if it is not intellectually
crippled and replaced with nationalism in the national psych. Indeed,
nationalism and positive ethnicity should be taught in schools and working
places as a substitute for negative ethnicity and worship of tribal leadership. Uniting Kenya must mean teaching
patriotism and sanctity of our sovereignty. Kenya cannot stand united if its
internal cohesion and external boundaries are subject to violation by anybody. Nor
will this be possible without freedom to live, work and die anywhere in Kenya.
Whatever county laws we have restricting anybody’s citizenship should be
scrapped to promote ultimate unity. If we are truly for national
unity, Kenyans who were displaced from their lands in ethnic conflicts in the Rift
Valley and desire to go back should be resettled and apologies made for their
displacement. Kenyans cannot talk of national
unity outside equality of work and business opportunities. How can we say we
are for unity when some Kenyans cannot work in Nyeri, Kisumu, Kiambu, Kakamega
or Mandera simply because their ethnicity falls outside the 30 per cent
category of employment that is reserved for persons considered foreigners in
their own country? For Kenya to be truly united, as
Tanzania or South Africa, national leaders can come from the smallest community
without fear of discrimination. Merit to lead is hardly ethnic. To have true national
unity, the Constitution and laws must ban negative ethnicity. Without these
reforms, we will not realise this unity. Importantly, this unity must not mean
uniting the Kikuyu and the Luo elites as it seems. It must be about bringing
all Kenyans together. Government jobs and leadership positions in the
Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary must belong to all, not a few ethnic
elites eating together at the exclusion of others. There is need to share and
distribute power and resources equitably to all Kenyans because we cannot be
united when there is ethnic and economic marginalization. Ultimately, we cannot unify Kenya
while keeping the same in our groin. We must eliminate ethnic hate completely
from our midst. Those
who fear losing identity when they abandon negative ethnicity must remember, doing
so gains them positive ethnicity. In the meantime, embracing negative ethnicity
loses you the Kenyan identity that enriches and makes you a better person.  