Nairobi County Public Service board (NCPSB) on Friday denied claims of receiving bribes from people scheduled to join the county inspectorate department following a recruitment process which took place last month. The board has been accused exhorting heavy bribes to facilitate the calling letters. NCPSB chairman Philip Kungu has however denied the allegations saying the process of calling is yet to be reached. Speaking to the Star, Kungu defended the board saying no letters have been issued out yet. " No appointment letter has been issued out by the board because the process is still ongoing . We are still doing preliminary work," he said. The chairman also said that the recruitment is based on many processes and what happened in Kasarani was only the fist stage. "Recruitment is done according to the law, County Government act and Public Service regulation. So the board is not doing anything outside the law," he said. There were claims that NCPSB had been secretly selling their recruitment letters between Sh.150,000 to Sh.200,000 to people who are not even residents of Nairobi County. However, Kungu further challenged those with evidence to take the matter to the police for investigation and the alleged letters that have been bought. On March 15th, over 10,000 candidates were taken through an intensive recruitment exercise at Kasarani Stadium.Only 1000 out of 10,000 Nairobi candidates who participated in the recruitment process at will be recruited by the county government. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had announced that his government will be recruiting 800 county constables and 200 firefighters. However, Kungu further challenged those with evidence to take the matter to the police for investigation and the alleged letters that have been bought. "These are nothing but mere rumors. We are strictly being guided by the law on the recruitment process and when we start the recruitment process the letters will be issued out," said Kungu In addition, Kungu condemned the use of social media by malicious people who are interested in ruining the reputation of the County Government. He urged people to be patient and once the process is done those chosen will be recruited without any biasness.