Kenya Airways group MD and CEO Sebastian Mikosz has ended a three-day market visit to the USA where he has been meeting with various transport and tourism stakeholders including the New York Tourism Board, and the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey. The objective of his visit was to engage with top travel management Companies and Tour Operators to consolidate partnerships and alliances and to promote the upcoming inaugural Kenya Airways non-stop flight to the United States. Announced on January 11, this will be KQ's first non-stop flight from Nairobi to New York City, linking East Africa to North America, thus opening up wider business opportunities and tourism exchanges between the two regions. With the United States having grown into the top source market for tourism in Kenya and over 40 American organizations having their regional headquarters in Nairobi, this unique product aims at boosting tourism, investment and economic growth between the two countries and continents. “Kenya Airways non-stop flight from New York to Nairobi will significantly improve connection between two major markets. Not only does this key route contribute to the development of trade between East Africa and the US, it also gives the opportunity to our American guests to enjoy a wide-range of premium leisure experiences in 14 hours daily.” “I also believe that expatriate Kenyans and East African in the US will be excited by this new convenient, non-stop, direct route with a leading African national carrier,” he said. The route will be operated by a Boeing 787 Dreamliner with 234 seats - 30 in premier world and 204 economy class, world-class products and services and a convenient schedule. The first flight will depart John F. Kennedy International Airport on 29th October 2018 at 1225 hours, arriving at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 1055 hours the next day. The return flight will depart Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 2325 hours, arriving at JFK airport at 0625 hours the following morning.