The pay row pitting lecturers and the Education ministry persisted on Monday after the dons vowed to continue with their strike. The strike, that entered its 40th day, has stalled learning and
research work for over 600,000 students in the 31 public universities. Education CS Amina Mohammed has told lectures to end their strike immediately and resume duties as ordered by the court. The CS said the ministry supports the court order which required the dons to resume work today (Monday) before talks on the CBA begin. Amina said ministry officials are ready for dialogue over the pay row once the lecturers go back to class. She spoke during the release of Universities and Colleges selection results. "The courts have spoken and provided the direction as all staff should have resumed duty by today," Amina said. Also read: Punish lecturers who fail to report to work on Monday, varsities told The Employment and Labour Relations Court ordered both teaching and non teaching staff from the universities to resume work. Justice Onesmus Makau had on Friday directed the Union officials to call off the strike forthwith. The lecturers have appealed the ruling and have maintained that they will continue with the work boycott until their pay demands are met. They are pushing the government to agree to a Sh38 billion
payout to the new CBA to go towards salary increases, car loans,
mortgages and health insurance. They also want universities to
sign internal CBAs and vice chancellors to remit about Sh3.56 billion in
accrued pension arrears from the 2010-2013 and 2013-2017 CBAs. Read: Lecturers strike continues, UASU officials say after filing appeal UASU Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said the IPUCCF has no powers to order lecturers to go back to work. "The strike is still on until the 2017-21 CBA is concluded and a return to work formula that protects employees from victimization is signed," Wasonga said. Wasonga said the union complied with CJ David Maraga's advice that aggrieved parties in any court matter should seek redress in the court of appeal. He said they filed the appeal last Friday and that the strike will remain in until the ruling is delivered. "I shall not comment further to substantive issues before the court. I ask all UASU members to avoid commenting on matters pending before court," he said. UASU national chair Muga K'Olale said they are not aware of any communication from CS Amina that the issue on their CBA will be resolved by Thursday. He said they're ready to go back to work only after the CBA is negotiated, signed and implemented. "We can even negotiate the CBA within an hour if they want, we are ready," he said. KUSU secretary general Charles Mukhwaya dismissed calls by IPUCCF to resume work saying the forum has never sought court orders prohibiting them from striking. "It's only the University of Nairobi who were served by such an order but we have since appealed the order and staff at the University are now free to remain on strike," he said. Click here for the latest political news