Alamitu Jatani, the wife of Marsabit Governor Mohamud Ali, has told her FGM story, saying she didn't know better even though she was a city girl. Jatani explained that she was "programmed" at the age of nine despite being born in Nairobi; she was made to believe that it was wrong for girls not to be circumcised so she willingly underwent the cut. “During the December holiday, three of us were taken to a certain place and told we had to undergo the cut," she said on Friday, during the launch of a new approach to ending child marriage and Female Genital Mutilation. FGM is illegal in Kenya but communities practise it in secret, especially during the end-year holidays. "I was very proud. I was very happy because it was what our culture wanted us to do. I felt great that I was programmed not to cry because crying meant I was weak and that my dad and mum did not bring me up the way a girl should be brought up." Read: Kenya among top countries abetting FGM in hospitals Also read Legalising FGM is out of the question Jatani said they carried their own items, such as plates, to the location. "When we got there we met mean-looking women," she said, adding they bathed from buckets at 6am using cold water. "Two of the girls said 'Not me' and ran away. I was the only one who went through with the cut." Jatani said she realised how foolish she was to accept FGM after getting older and going to school. She is now championing the end of the practice. “I am a proud mother of two girls and three boys. None of my girls will go through FGM,” she said. "FGM and early marriage are not good for our girls. Some cultural practices cannot be practised in this country anymore.” Jatani attended the launch of a clan initiative dubbed Koota Injena (Come let us talk) - a three-year project for girls at risk of child marriage and FGM in the Rendille, Borana, Gabra, and Samburu communities. Many members of these communities believe the cut is beneficial. More on this: [VIDEO] FGM controls sex drive, protects morals — Bonis The initiative will see clan elders and youth leaders hold discussions and educate people on the dangers of child marriage and FGM. The US government has given a Sh372.5 million grant for the programme which also involves USAid, Amref Health Africa, Marsabit and Samburu counties and the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs. Unicef reported in 2016 that 9.3 million women and girls in Kenya (27 per cent) had undergone FGM. Samburu and Marsabit counties recorded significantly high rates of FGM and child marriages - 86 and 91.7 per cent, respectively.  These communities also have high rates of child marriage. Public Service Minister Margaret Kobia reiterated the government's commitment to addressing child marriage and FGM and ensuring all girls complete their education. Click here for the latest political news