Title: Care For Me Artiste: Saba Genre: Hip hop/ Rap Release: April 5  Saba’s 2016 debut album “Bucket List Project” was a package of things we want to experience during our existence. Slightly over two decades old, the rapper is a deep creator who prefers to tackle issues with the precision they deserve, rather than conform to what’s current. His reality shapes his delivery, style and sound. Working closely with Chance the Rapper on a couple of tracks, Saba must have earned the much-needed exposure every rapper needs. Somehow, Chance’s third major project, “Coloring Book”, in which Saba features, placed him in the spotlight, winning him Grammy accolades and worldwide recognition. For this reason alone, Saba feels tasked to keep up with the stardom that’s come with him being part of such a masterpiece. By the time Saba releases his latest album, “Care For Me,” he understands that he is bigger than he ever was and needs to deliver a project rich in history and audibly grand. In 41min, we experience 10 tracks written and done with an analytical exactness rare in the contemporary rap scene. The opening track, “Busy/Sirens” taps the vocals of theMind, who helps Saba tell his depression story. He recalls the death of his cousin and close friend John Walt, who was stabbed. He delves deep into the issue on “Life”. The rapper from Chicago comes to terms with his reality, and this is evident on tunes like “Calligraphy” and “Smile”. Whether a track tackles the gang culture or details how he grew up in his grandmother’s house, Saba does it with so much will. As much as the project is a tribute to his overcomings, it’s a proper gift delivered to his loyal fanbase. We get to experience Chance the Rapper and his religious inclination on “Logout”, a tune that touches on the negative aspect of social media. The ninth track, “Prom/King” revisits the death of John Walt. Employing a somber delivery and passionate lyricism, this time, Saba gives a seven-and-a-half minutes narration split into two distinct parts. Produced by Daoud, DaedaePivot and Saba, the project ranks among the best rap albums released this year. Saba finds his voice and grow out of Chance’s shadow. He has experienced full maturation and joins the legion of rappers already on the A-list.  Star Rating: 4 out of 5