A study on the effects of organised criminal gangs on the livelihoods of urban residents shows the scourge is increasingly being committed by younger culprits, aged 12-25 years. The study was carried out by Alex Mutuku last year, focusing on Gaza gang in Kayole, Nairobi county. The number of youths involved in crime in the contemporary world, it found, has drastically increased. Mutuku, who holds a Master of Arts in sociology (criminology and social order), writes: “There exist barriers to fighting gangs in Africa, and the main barrier is lack of information on criminal gangs.” Unicef in 2005 said young people are left to take care of themselves in violence-torn communities that do not provide services. “To cope with the devastating circumstances in the urban set-ups, youth often exhibit risky behaviour, including substance abuse, gang membership, aggressive and violent actions against others, stealing and other crimes or early pregnancy.” Mutuku said “push and pull factors” drive youths to join crime. “The push factors are individual reasons, like desire to get identified by engaging in crime, while the pull factors are brought about by the surrounding environment, and can involve joining a gang to acquire more money or private protection,” he said. Ipoa (2014) suggested that unequal distribution of resources, high population growth and increased poverty due to youth unemployment have contributed to the rising number of criminal gang activities in Kenya. Mutuku’s research found that: “Emotional factors that have been associated with youths joining gang membership in relation to violence and crime include peer pressure and impulsivity. In addition, the gangsters manage their behaviour by defusing the undesirable outcomes of their acts, and most distressingly, they care less about their violent acts.” Maupeu (2013) said most organised criminals gangs in Kenya are funded and protected by influential politicians. And a report released by the Government of Kenya (2009) found that criminal organised gangs extort money from public service vehicles on major routes, as well as from robbery. The government is 2010 published a gazette on prevention of crimes. The notice outlined laws focusing on investigating, preventing and punishing the organisers of crime in Kenya. In his research, Mutuku stated: “The law itself provided tight rules to any gangs operating in the country, and ensured the culprits are sentenced to a jail term of not less than 14 years or a lifetime for the guilty.” The law stipulated a harsh penalty to organisers and gangs, as well as those who commit serious offences, including a lifetime conviction for oath administration. The Organised Criminal Act, 2010, and the Persons Act, 2010, stated the ways to stop gangs by counter trafficking.  CASE STUDY Joseph Jilo, 23, is among at least 10 youth who have been gunned down by police in Mombasa since January. Jilo met his death around March 7 in Kisauni. He reportedly brandished a machete and attempted to slash a police officer, before he was eliminated with a single bullet. He was living with his grandfather before his death. Just like the rest, his family said he was innocent and never engaged in crime. “He was polite and God-fearing,” his aunt Esther Ndombi, who lived with him for close to 10 years, said, adding that she last saw him five years ago. Jilo stopped living with her when he joined form one at Sacred Heart Secondary School. He had converted and become a Muslim, Ndombi said. Jilo lived a troubled life. His mother died while he was a few months old. “His father Jack Baraka, who worked at the African Safari Club, lost his job years later. I had to pick him,” Ndombi told the Star. The aunt said Baraka refused to let Jilo school at a boarding school after his KCPE. “I took my son, who was then his agemate, to a school in western,” she said. Baraka later married another wife, and Jilo moved to his grandfather’s place. It appears Jilo did not agree with his father’s decision, and it probably pushed him to crime. It is from this time that Jilo started showing signs of stress. He was later expelled from the school he was in after forging a meal card, Ndombi said. “He had school fees arrears and could not get a meal, so he had to do what he did,” the aunt said. Ndombi said Jilo was enrolled at Talent Secondary School in Bombolulu but did not perform well in the KSCE exam. “His family problems really affected him so much. The father was jobless and the mother died a long time ago,” she said.