India has constitutional
guarantees of freedom of speech and by some measures the biggest
and most diverse media industry in the world. But journalists
here say they are increasingly facing intimidation aimed at
stopping them from running stories critical of Prime Minister
Narendra Modi and his administration. At least three senior editors have left their jobs at
various influential media outlets in the past six months after
publishing reports that angered the government or supporters of
Modi's Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), according
to colleagues. Some reporters, as well as television anchors, have told
Reuters they have been threatened with physical harm, abused on
social media and ostracised by Modi's administration. In its annual World Press Freedom Index released on
Wednesday, the Paris-based Reporters Without Borders said that
India was now 138th-ranked in the world out of 180 countries
measured, down two positions since 2017 and lower than countries
like Zimbabwe, Afghanistan and Myanmar. When the index was
started in 2002, India was ranked 80th out of 139 countries
surveyed. Reporters Without Borders said that "with Hindu nationalists
trying to purge all manifestations of 'anti-national' thought
from the national debate, self-censorship is growing in the
mainstream media and journalists are increasingly the targets of
online smear campaigns by the most radical nationalists, who
vilify them and even threaten physical reprisals." The group said that "hate speech targeting journalists is
shared and amplified on social networks, often by troll armies." Spokesmen for the government declined comment on the
accusations by journalists. They did not immediately respond to
the Reporters Without Borders report. G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, a spokesman for the ruling BJP, said
the allegations of intimidation were far from the truth. "On the contrary, the BJP has been a victim of the
viciousness of large sections of the media that flourished under
the patronage of the Congress, left and other opposition
parties," he told Reuters in e-mailed comments. "The unabashed
bias of these media against the BJP has not dented our party's
political growth." Some journalists in India say they believe media freedoms
are now under even more threat in the run-up to an election due
next year. There have been some signs of increasing opposition
to Modi's economic policies and to the BJP's muscular Hindu
nationalism. DEATH, RAPE THREATS "India is going through an aggressive variant of McCarthyism
against the media," said Prannoy Roy, co-founder of NDTV,
India's first private news channel. NDTV, which some BJP leaders have called the least friendly
of India's television channels, is being investigated for fraud
by federal police. The company has called it a witch-hunt. The government declined to respond to Roy's comments. Sagarika Ghose, a columnist with the Times of India
newspaper, said she is viciously trolled for any criticism of
the administration. "The minute I write something, I get droves of hate mail,"
Ghose said. "I have had death threats and gang rape threats on
social media and also through letters sent to my home. They know
where I live." Ravish Kumar, a news anchor who has been scathing about the
government in his programme for NDTV's Hindi-language channel,
said he has been constantly harassed and threatened by
pro-government activists. "This is very organised," he told Reuters. "They follow me.
When I go out to report, a crowd gathers in 10 minutes." Reporters Without Borders counted instances of Indian
journalists being killed because of what they write. "At least three of the journalists murdered in 2017 were
targeted in connection with their work," it said. Among them was editor and publisher Gauri Lankesh, a vocal
advocate of secularism and critic of right-wing political
ideology. A member of a hardline Hindu group has been arrested
for the murder of Lankesh, who was gunned down outside her home.
. Journalists say that media proprietors, who often have
multiple kinds of businesses, are risk averse and can be leaned
on by the government. "Media proprietors are notorious for reading the tea leaves,
they get a clear sense of the tolerance level of politicians in
power," said Siddharth Varadarajan, who runs a not-for-profit
online news portal called The Wire. "Government ministers have
coined this word, presstitute, to describe journalists who are
unfriendly to them or who don't do their bidding," he said. OUT OF FAVOUR Bobby Ghosh, the editor of the Hindustan Times, one of
India's premier broadsheets, quit last September shortly after
Modi met the owner of the newspaper. At least two senior
journalists familiar with the situation said they were told that
Modi was unhappy with Ghosh's editorial policies. The journalists told Reuters that Ghosh fell out of favour
with the government after he launched a webpage called the Hate
Tracker, a database of violent crimes based on religion, race
ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. The database was taken down in October. Ghosh declined to specify why he quit the Hindustan Times. The prime minister's office and the newspaper declined
requests for comment on the matter. A letter published at the time from the government's chief
spokesman Frank Noronha said Modi had met the Hindustan Times
chairwoman Shobhana Bhartia when she invited the prime minister
to attend a conference organised by the newspaper. "Other related assumptions and insinuations...are baseless
and denied," Noronha said. "The government is committed to the
freedom of the press." Restrictions on reporting are likely to intensify heading
into the election, said Harish Khare, who resigned as
editor-in-chief of the widely read Tribune newspaper last month. "It (the government) will use every resource in its command
to pressurise, manipulate, misguide media or any other voice
which seeks to be independent of the government," said Khare,
who was for some time the prime minister's press secretary in
the Congress Party government that lost power to Modi and the
BJP in 2014. He told Reuters his relations with the Tribune's controlling
trust nosedived after the newspaper published a story exposing
flaws in Aadhar, the government's national identity card
project. The newspaper's trust rejected his accusations. "To
the contrary, the Tribune Trust gave an unprecedented award of
50,000 rupees ($765) to the correspondent (who wrote the story)
in recognition of the work," said Officiating Editor K.V. Prasad
in an e-mail. "The editor-in-chief's departure came close to the end of
the tenure." 