Armed youth in Baringo are staging banditry attacks to steal livestock from the neighbouring pastoral community. The livestock is said to be used to pay “expensive” dowry to marry circumcised girls. Traditionally, a Pokot man should part with 50 goats, 30 cows or 10 camels to marry a circumcised girl aged 10-15 years. “That is why we have to use our guns to raid neighbouring communities to acquire cattle,” Pokot herder Kukat Lochuliait said. The latest attack occurred in Kasiela, Baringo South subcounty, on March 25. It left Christine Kulei, 43, crying after she lost all her family’s 38 head of cattle to bandits. “Where are our leaders?” she said. Kulei said the bandits terrorised her family with gunshots before rustling their cattle. “They made away with our only source of family livelihood,” she said, sobbing. Kasiela assistant chief Samuel Kibii told the Star no single animal was rescued during the 3pm raid. Residents, police and National Police Reservists tried in vain to recover the animals. He said the residents have lived in peace since the last banditry attack in May last year. “Could be the armed Pokot bandits are attacking again to use the stolen cattle to pay for dowry and marry the girls once they are back from the cut,” Kibii said. Protagonists of female genital mutilation say it suppresses girls’ sexual desire to make them faithful. However, it has many health effects, including recurrent urinary and vaginal infections, chronic pain, infertility, haemorrhaging, epidermoid cysts, and difficult labour. It also has a psychological impact and causes abnormalities in the female sexual function. THOUSANDS FACE FGM On March 17, three girls escaped FGM in Tangulbei, Tiaty subcounty. The next day, seven other girls aged 9-12 years were rescued, bringing the total to 10. The girls were among over 2,000 Pokot girls targeted for the cut. The girls are being housed under tight protection at Tangulbei Boarding Primary School, under the care of head teacher Musa Terter. Sources said traditional women circumcisers were paid at least two goats or Sh3,000 per girl, adding that the mutilation is usually carried out in August and December. In December last year, the Star highlighted that more than 2,000 girls from the Pokot community in Tiaty subcounty underwent the cut, despite the government ban. Head teacher Terter said due to the girls’ illiteracy, he has admitted them in class one and two, despite their ages. He said when interviewed, the girls said, “We were threatened by our parents and brothers that we would die if we refused to join thousands of our mates currently facing the knife in the bush.” Tiaty East deputy subcounty commissioner Reuben Ratemo assured the girls of their security, saying they were in safe hands. “Although the parents are threatening to storm the school to take away their children, we have alerted our officers to arrest anybody claiming any of the girls,” Ratemo said. County commissioner Henry Wafula said the government will not allow FGM and early marriage to continue. “I have ordered my officers on the ground to recover all the stolen animals and carry out thorough investigations to arrest all the culprits,” he said. Wafula praised teachers for helping keep children in school, despite drought and hunger. He said the government will soon release relief food and the long awaited school feeding programme. ALTERNATIVE RITES Tangulbei Women’s Network chairperson Mary Kuket urged the government to be vigilant. “More girls are expected to undergo the cut this rainy season in Tiaty due to backlog following prolonged droughts last year,” she said. The chair called for more rescue centres to help the increasing number of girls running from their homes every day. She warned that many girls could be mutilated this season following the rains, saying “Many circumcised young men are waiting for the girls to also get circumcised so they can marry them.” Her network has worked with chiefs and churches to identify the most notorious families. “We would want to get the girls out of their homes but we lack where to take them,” Kuket said. She said on April 1, more than 100 young women and girls from Tiaty were taken through life skills training, which aims to end early marriage and FGM. After the three-day training, most teenage girls from the Pokot community agreed to leave their traditional way of life and go to school. “The young mothers and girls were educated on basic life skills, effects of FGM and small business entrepreneurship, to change and improve their lives,” Kuket said, adding that most residents are still resistant to change. She appealed to donors and well-wishers to assist with mattresses, school uniforms and school fees to sustain the 10 rescued girls in Tangulbei. “The girls are like a golden treasure in the pastoral Pokot community once they graduate from the cut, because it means the young men will have to part with several head of cattle as dowry before marrying them,” she said. SCHOOLS CLOSED Many schools have been closed indefinitely as tensions mount due to banditry. Ng’elecha and Arabal primary schools were the latest to be closed on March 27. These joined seven other schools in Baringo South closed due to insecurity and two in Baringo North, leaving more than 300 pupils out of class. Mochongoi MCA Kipruto Kimosop lashed out at the security forces for failing to respond quickly to the bandit attacks. “Why is the government keen to respond to the attacks in Laikipia or Mt Elgon, and leaving residents of Baringo to fight bandits themselves?” Kimosop said, adding that the insecurity situation is getting out of hand.