At 6am on Monday, another woman was slashed with a panga by a gang of four at Jamvi la Wageni in Likoni, Mombasa. The crime took place three hours before a meeting on dealing with juvenile gangster who have persistently staged attacks for more than three months. Three of the alleged criminals were killed last week, three weeks after four were gunned down and two lynched. Likoni Deputy County Commissioner Eric Wamulevu said the woman in the latest attack sustained deep cuts. The attack made the meeting at Licodep tense, with participants pointing fingers as several parties. Area MP Mishi Mboko, human rights activists and police attended. They warned the gangs will soon supersede the levels of the once dreaded Kaya Bombo and Mombasa Republican Council in terms of technique. "When this happens, Likoni will be deserted. It will be like Kapedo, Boni and Baragoi," Mboko said. Kaya Bombo was an outfit of hundreds of youth armed with an assortment of weapons, who operated from Kaya Bombo forests and Similani caves. The gang struck with deadly force during the 1999 Likoni clashes in which hundreds of people were killed. The MRC on the other hand is a separatist organisation that stamped its authority by slashing police officers and raiding their barracks in Nyali. The numerous juvenile gangs causing terror in the constituency bears some similarities with the two - they employ crude weapons and attack in broad daylight when least expected. "Whoever will be found with a panga will face what we normally do (kill on sight)," Wamulevu said. Related: Juvenile killings in Mombasa alarming, crimes escalating - activists Also see: [VIDEO] Wanted gangster shot dead in Mombasa, nine killed in two weeks Police have been on the spot for the killings of at least 10 people believed to have been members of various gangs in Mombasa. Muslims for Human Rights Executive Director Hassan Abdille cautioned against such killings which he termed extra-judicial. But Wamulevu said they don't kill the innocent. "Proper profiling will be done in one week to help them," he said. "Those unwilling to change will eat it (the bullet)." Muhuri's rapid response officer Fahad Changi called for rehabilitation. "Some years back, we predicted that insecurity would worsen in Likoni but we were dismissed. Today we will not shift blame but help end the scourge," he said. This was in response to Mboko's claim that NGOs have done nothing to stop the attacks. "These groups should substantiate [claims that politicians] are funding the crimes. We will not allow such propaganda," Mboko said. Noting that the group's empowerment programmes were on, Changi called for support from the political class. Mboko suggested that youths who took part in Kaya Bombo and MRC fights be used as role models to guide emerging criminal groups. "We need to change the approach. Dialogue must be embraced," she said. Her remarks were echoed by Changi who asserted that police should not be quick to eliminate suspects. Wamiji Council of Elders Coordinator Ali Mwasirima, said Nyumba Kumi heads have not been reporting crimes for their safety. "They should not be victimised. They are not like police who have fighting instruments," he said after Wamulevu warned that some will be fired for abetting crime. More on this: [VIDEO] Shoot to kill? Mombasa police gun down youths in crime war Also read: We feel safer in criminal gangs than with police - Kisauni youths Click here for the latest political news