Kenya Footballers Welfare Association has threatened to take legal action against Bulgarian First League side, Slavia Sofia for wrongful dismissal of Harambee Stars’ international Aboud Omar. Kefwa vice president, Wilson Obungu yesterday said they are reviewing the circumstances that led to the Aboud’s sacking by the Bulgarian side. “We think it was unprocedural to terminate his contract and when we get more information from Aboud, we will seek ways to help him out,” said Obungu, who is also the Kenya Premier League side, Bandari team manager. Obungu was speaking yesterday in Mombasa during an Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya (Adak) sensitization workshop for Bandari players at Mombasa Beach Hotel. Aboud, who is Obungu’s former team-mate at Bandari, was axed on Thursday last week for allegedly using vulgar language against his teammates and officials. The Harambee Stars left-back, however, attributed his sacking his refusal to extend his contract with the club, owing to better offers elsewhere. He joined the club in 2016 from Greek-based Panegialious, and his contract was set to expire in June. “I was a bit reluctant in extending my stay here since I have received better offers elsewhere. The president wanted me to sign a new deal but I was keen to run my contract till June and join another club. When he realised I was not willing to extend my stay, he started discriminating and displaying open hatred against me,” Aboud was quoted as saying. Obungu said though they do not condone misbehaviour of any of the Kefwa members, they must also be given a fair hearing. He said players and officials disagree from time to time and those difference do not necessary warrant such actions. “If it happened, it is normal in training sessions. And if really it was gross as they say, there are procedures that a team should follow,” said Obungu. He added: “We are not sure Aboud was given any warning and that is what we want to find out. But we think he was not given sufficient time to either defend or explain himself,” he added.