The Independent Policing Oversight Authority on Monday unveiled a digital platform to track complaints, status of investigations, and for records management. The Enterprise Content Management system has 11 components including legal, IT service desk, data center upgrade, and contact centre among others The development of the system dubbed "IPOAcloud Connect System" was funded by the US government. Currently, the system is fully functional and all 11 modules are on the live environment for use by all staff. There are over 2,200 complaints registered within the IPOAcloud Connect system across Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, and Garissa. It will be soon rolled out to the new IPOA regional offices in Nakuru, Eldoret, Kakamega, Meru, Nyeri, and Lodwar. Complaints module is designed empower citizens by offering them a choice of self and assisted service options when lodging complaints. Email, web or social media requests are automatically updated in the system whereas complaints made through walk-ins to IPOA offices and calls are logged into the system by the agent and a notification sent to the complainant on the same. CEO Maina Njoroge said the ECM will assist in performance monitoring and evaluation of the IPOA function, to create departmental work-plans and targets, and evaluate actual performance on the set targets. The investigations module will manage cases from reporting stage through resolution and automatically associates incoming inquiries with the appropriate case, thus eliminating duplicate cases. It also catalogues and stores documents and multimedia files in the cloud based application–  providing a knowledge base to allow IPOA staff to build and maintain a case database that makes it easy for staff to find appropriate information quickly. Njoroge said the investigators are also able to track the cost of every investigation using the online requisition process. The inspection and monitoring component of the system officers used to provide stake holders with completed assessments and share information with citizens and affected organisations using the data analysis from the system. Click here for the latest political news  