The baby said to have been killed by a house help in Bungoma died from choking, a postmortem has revealed. The examination on eight-month-old baby Christian Gabriel's body was carried out on Saturday, a day after his mother found him dead. “We received reports that a mother in Bungoma found her
child unconscious on the bed upon returning home on April 6," Bungoma South DCIO Bernard Chepkwony told reporters on Monday. "The doctor who carried out the exam said the baby died from choking." Chepkwony said other tissue samples were taken to the government chemist for tests to rule out poisoning. He said police were searching for the house help for an account of the circumstances that led to the baby's death. "BABY HAD BEEN FINE" Cynthia Kasivo, the baby’s mother, said the baby was in a good mood when she left for work that Friday morning. "When I left the baby was healthy
and laughing and when I came back for lunch he was fine. However, in the
evening the house was silent. I tried calling my house help but the calls did not go through. I found the baby lying on the bed,” she told journalists at her home on Sunday. The baby was found wrapped in a blanket. The house help had left with all her belongings. Cynthia screamed and alerted neighbours who used a motorcycle to take the child to hospital where he was confirmed dead. She reported the matter at Bungoma police station, whose officers took the body for a postmortem at Bungoma referral hospital. "BEST HOUSE HELP EVER" The 41-year-old house help hailed from Kakamega and had worked at Cynthia's home for two and a half months after she was taken there by a friend. Cynthia said she had stayed with her boss in Kakamega for seven years. The former employer had six children who were older so the help's services were no longer needed. Cynthia said she did not have any problems with the help as she was very supportive and cared for the baby. "I don't understand why she had to kill the child as she looked harmless and did her work in a very responsible manner," she said. "We had never quarreled and I paid her salary on time." Justus Kasivo, who is Cynthia's brother, said he rushed to her home after he was called on Friday evening and told the baby had died. Justus said they tried in vain to contact the employee so they reported the matter to police. He said his sister had told him the house help had been cooperative and had not shown any signs of having ill motives so they were surprised by the events of that day. “She has information on what transpired on that fateful day. My sister said she was the best house help they had ever had as she took very good care of the child." In a Facebook post, family friend William Isigi said that the house help was responsible for the death of the baby and called on the public to provide information that may lead to her arrest. Residents asked police to speed up the investigations. Bungoma South OCPD David Kirui said reports indicated the help had returned to her home in Kakamega. He advised those in this line of work to solve problems with their bosses amicably "instead of resorting to evil and heinous deeds such as the killing of children". Click here for the latest political news