Cholera has claimed the lives of 29 people in  Kenya this year, a report by Unicef indicates.The report shows Kenya is among eight countries reporting active transmission of cholera. Others are Somalia, Tanzania, Angola, Malawi, Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia.Unicef urged Kenya to ensure proper sanitation to avert the cholera outbreaks. During the period under review, it was reported that Uganda had the highest number of new cases ( 485, including five deaths), followed by Tanzania ( 321 cases, with seven deaths). Read: Panic after fifth cholera case is reported in NaivashaIn Kenya, 88 new cases, including five deaths were reported in week eight, compared to 64 cases reported in week seven. These new cases emerged from Siaya ( 70 cases with five deaths), six in Tana River, five in Garissa, five in Turkana and two in Tharaka Nithi. Since October 2016, a total of 5,540 cases, including 118 deaths have been reported. Of the number, 1,241 cases and 29 deaths were reported since the beginning of 2018. The report dated March 6 indicates there is need for continuous capacity building on strengthening public health surveillance, provision of safe water and proper human waste disposal. The Health ministry has designed, printed and distributed leaflets to educate people on cholera in the affected counties. It has also set up cholera treatment centres in areas where cases have been reported.Distribution of water treatment chemicals to households in the affected areas is also going on. Read: 20 feared dead from cholera in Turkana countyUnicef identified limited financial and material resources as part of the challenges being faced to facilitate rapid deployment of national and county technical teams to respond to the outbreaks. “Not all counties have a regular supply of water and most county health facility labs are not well-equipped to carry out water quality tests and confirmatory tests,” the report indicates.Separate data compiled by the World Health Organization revealed that Kenya has been experiencing an upsurge of cholera cases. The first cholera outbreak reported in 2017 was in Tana River county. The outbreak started on October 10, 2016 and was controlled by April 2017.A second wave started in Garissa county on April 2, 2017 and was reported later in nine other counties. The counties are Nairobi, Murang’a, Vihiga, Mombasa, Turkana, Kericho, Nakuru, Kiambu and Narok. In Garissa, the outbreak affected mainly the Dadaab refugee camp. Other cases and deaths were reported in the Hagadera, Dagahaleh, and Ifo 2 camps. In Turkana county, the disease also affected Kakuma and Kalobeyei refugee camps. Related: 50 hit by cholera outbreak at Weston Hotel health conference  Click here for the latest political news