IEBC has denounced as fake, a letter doing rounds on social media claiming chairman Wafula Chebukati has resigned. "We wish to state that the memo circulating on social media that @IEBCKenya Chairman @WChebukati has resigned is FAKE," the commission said on twitter. The fake letter claimed the chair resigned on Monday due to "circumstances beyond his control". However, calls for Chebukati to resign have gained momentum in recent days with some key leaders both in the opposition and ruling Jubilee Party saying it is the most prudent thing for the electoral agency boss to do. More on this: Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC This followed the recent abrupt resignation of vice chairperson Consolata Nkatha and commissioners Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya. They accused the chairman of being unable to offer sound leadership to the commission. Read: Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader On Sunday, National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said Chebukati and the two remaining commissioners should resign honourably to 'save face'. "They should be men enough to tell the country that we did not offer leadership and we must call it a day," Duale said. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika echoed the sentiments and said Chebukati's time in office is up. "If the people you are working with have resigned, then who are you leading," she asked. Currently, IEBC does not have the capacity to make legally binding decisions because it lacks quorum. Read: IEBC is cursed, Chebukati must also resign - Orengo The law requires that decisions of the commission can only count if they are made by at least five of its seven commissioners. But currently, there are only three commissioners - Chebukati, Abdi Guliye and Molu Boya. The resignation of Nkatha, Kurgat and Mwachanya makes four the total number of commissioners who have quit. Roselyne Akombe was the first to exit on October 18 last year, just a week before the October 26 repeat polls. Their resignation is further compounded by the absence of CEO Ezra Chiloba. The latter is currently serving a three-month compulsory leave over procurement issues. On Friday last week, Chebukati declared that he is going nowhere and that the commission as currently constituted is rightfully in place. He asked those who have issues and want the remaining three commissioners to leave to follow the law in removing them from office. Also read: I will not resign, Chebukati says after three quit Click here for the latest political news  