Iten-Arror road was rendered impassable and access to food limited by heavy rains in Elgeyo Marakwet at the weekend. The downpour
destroyed the Yokot water pan in Keiyo North, occasioning a water run-off that
swept through villages in Kessup area on the Kerio escarpments. Residents said
the run-off destroyed houses and washed away a bridge linking Iten to the Kerio
Valley region. “We woke up
to large volumes of water that marooned villages at 6am on Saturday. We later
learnt that the Yokot water pan in the highlands had been destroyed by the heavy
rains,” David Cheserek, a former councillor, said. Cheserek
said on Monday that several schools in Kabulwo, Chikilet, Koitilial and Arror
were marooned by floodwaters and may not re-open until when the rains
subside. He said public
service and private vehicles had been on Iten-Arror road since Saturday. “Residents
and matatu owners are now repairing the bridge. We have requested the county to assist us with bulldozer but it is yet to arrive." The former
Rimoi councillor said Kerio Valley residents did not have access to food. He appealed
to the national government to repair and even divert sections of the road to normalise
transport. “We are
asking Elgeyo Marakwet county to urgently constitute a disaster
management team to respond to challenges arising from heavy rains. The
national government should assess the situation and provide necessary
assistance,” he said. The meteorological department warned that rocks would topple and that landslides would occur in sections of the hilly county. Area official Simon Cheptot said on Monday that the rains that will continue until
June will make soils on the rocky escarpments loose. Two weeks
ago, a heavy downpour caused a massive movement of rock boulders from the Kerio
hanging valley, destroying banana and mango plantations in Cheptarit. Locals said
the rocks destroyed water pipes, leaving Chekilet Secondary and
Cheptarit Primary schools without water. Resident
Joseph Cheruiyot said a landslide destroyed houses
in the area. Deputy
Governor Wesley Rotich said the county invited Red
Cross to assess the situation and help. He noted the
boulders blocked roads linking the Kerio Valley to major towns, making it
difficult for farmers to transport mangoes and other produce to the market. Read: Landslides loom over Elgeyo as rivers burst banks and roads crumble Click here for the latest political news