Mombasa MCAs plan to petition the national government over “constant breakdown of the IFMIS” and delays in cash disbursement. About 10 MCAs says the breakdown of the Integrated Financial Management Information System could be deliberate. The county is depleting its local revenues and the delays could stifle operations, they say. In 2016-17, Mombasa’s local revenue was Sh3.2 billion. The average annual collection is Sh3 billion. The IFMIS is an automated system that improves efficiency in planning, budgetting, procurement, expenditure and reporting by the national and county governments. In Mombasa, suppliers and service providers have to wait longer to get their payments. The county struggles to keep its departments afloat following prolonged hitches with the IFMIS. Salaries are delayed and there are fears employees could be demoralised. Senior officers have expressed concern suppliers might stop working with the county. A Sh12.6 billion Supplementary Budget that was to clear some bills has not helped. Top officers in the county question the motives of the national Exchequer. Reports that Governor Hassan Joho rejected the Supplementary Budget have been dismissed. “That is not true. The problem is the IFMIS, which has always been a problem,” county spokesperson Richard Chacha told the Star on the phone yesterday. He said excessive bureaucracy frustrates the counties. “There are too many requirements and shifting of goal posts that unnecessarily delay disbursement of funds to the counties, particularly Mombasa,” Chacha said. “This has caused delays in paying suppliers and, sometimes, salaries. At times we pay salaries in the second week of the month.” County Assembly Finance committee chairperson Mohamed Hatimy said the Sh12.6 billion Supplementary Budget has not been uploaded into the system. “When a supplementary budget is made, it must be uploaded into the IFMIS. The other one must also be removed. That has not happened. There is a problem. It is very slow. Something is wrong in Nairobi,” he said. Hatimy said county services are always affected by delays in disbursement. An MCA who did not want to be named said the national government could be playing games. “Other counties are also experiencing the same problem. But some counties never have such complaints, Why?” he asked. “The national government is broke. It is delaying cash so it can release them days to June 30, when it’s too late to use it. It will then demand that it be returned.”