The cat and mouse chase between county askaris and hawkers in Nairobi city centre came to play yesterday at the National Drama Festival. In a choral verse by the Kenya Institute of Mass Communications, students challenged Governor Mike Sonko to find a lasting solution to the hawkers menace. Students lamented loss of property during the face-offs, noting hawkers can also contribute to revenue collection. Social vices and the negative impacts of the fracas crowned the climax of the festival that ends today at Lenana School in Nairobi.  Kibabii Teachers College actors with their play Pendulum during Kenya National Drama festival Gala at Lenana School on April 10, 2018. /COLLINS LANGAT Just like the famous film The Lion King screened in 1994, addressing the social ill of jealousy and how it could ruin a society, Karima Girls High School took to stage a similar play Animal City Animosity to address the same issue. The play portrayed by animal characters, addresses social ills of hatred brought about by racial differences, envy and greed. The play starts with the death of the second wife - a leopard- who is killed by the first wife - a lioness. The lioness acts in fear of the leopard taking over the throne from the ailing and blind king Simba who faces imminent death due to old age. The lioness described the leopard as an intruder. She sees the leopard as an outsider and does now ant her to take over the throne from the aging King Simba.  Mulango Girls from Western Region presents MR ALUFAYO play during the ongoing National Drama Festival at Lenana on April 6, 2018. /COLLINS LANGAT The play was written by Joseph Murungu, produced by Grace Kinyua and directed by Bibiana Kola and Paul Kariuki. Speaking to the Star, Murungu said social discriminations such as tribalism, nepotism, racism and those based on religion were the main agenda of the play. Kenyatta University Ruiru campus left the crowd in stitches with their rib cracking narrative addressing the social evils among campus students.  Loreto Matunda from Rift Valley Region presents a cultural dance during the ongoing National Drama Festival at Lenana on April 6, 2018. /COLLINS LANGAT In the narrative, a student- Annabelle- changed in third year from an unnoticed girl, to rolling big with the latest cars. She involves herself in an illegal business of running a brothel under an enterprise dubbed Annabelle and Sisters Comfort, Escorts and services company. Annabelle, however, decides to take a new leaf after her uncle who sponsors her education finds out about her business. Kibabii Diploma Teachers Training College also presented a choral verse that championed for students to work hard in the examination and avoid cheating.  Sironga Girls from Nyanza Region presents FIFTY FIFTY play during the ongoing National Drama Festival at Lenana on April 6, 2018. /COLLINS LANGAT The Kenya Institute of Mass Communication staged two items, a narrative entitled State House Concert and a Swahili play dubbed Uhayawani. The play chronicled the story of a greedy tycoon who grabbed communal land said to have gold and then forced the locals—who were evicted from the place—to mine the treasure. Click here for the latest political news  