The Fifth Annual Devolution Conference in Kakamega county ends today. For the first time since devolution began in 2013, the county and national governments are conjoined in showcasing devolution achievements and the challenges of the last five years. The county governments are keen to shed the adversarial attitude toward the national government in hopes of achieving a productive partnership. The national government in turn is eager to shed the anti-devolution tag and its punitive reaction to the counties’ demands. The conference itself is hinged on the Big Four agenda, which lacks a frame of reference. It’s as if the counties’ displays and plenary sessions are primary research instruments to find the fulcrums for the Big Four development plan. The theme is deliberately vague, while the deliberations are a fishing expedition. Meanwhile, the loud high fives and big hugs hide a strong tide of resentment by the counties, which do not read good faith in the national government’s ventures. Were they honest, the counties would confess that all the legal inter-governmental safeguards in place — from holding the summit through the Devolution ministry to the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee — have been converted into national government instruments of coercion. Intimidated counties just float along so they can survive. Devolution was meant to bring all areas in Kenya on an even keel in development and heal the scars of real or imagined marginalisation. However, the gap between the most and least developed counties has widened since 2013. Rural Turkana is nowhere near catching up with urban Kiambu, and peri-urban Vihiga still lags behind urban Murang’a. It means the potential held by devolution can only be unleashed if the fifth anniversary of devolution is a review of what hinders the devolution dream. We may discover that many redundancies exist in the variables used to determine the ‘not less 15 per cent’ share of national revenue to the counties, the poverty indexes used to share the 15 per cent among the counties and the parameters used to delineate marginalised beneficiaries of the Equalisation Fund. Not that I envy Turkana county its vastness, colonial and post-colonial neglect. But why should geography, distance, history and “incidences of poverty” continue to award Turkana threefold the share that goes to a “marginal” area like Vihiga? Vihiga's 531 km2 is crammed with 1,051 persons per km², high incidences of poverty at 62 per cent, preventable disease plagues and high unemployment levels of its near 700,000-plus youthful population, and a dependency ratio of 100:90? In other words, isn’t time we defined developed, developing and undeveloped counties? Without doubt, the Equalisation Fund was a wise setup to ensure hitherto abandoned areas get extra cash to graduate from the margins of development. The law emphasises that, “The national government shall use the Equalisation Fund only to provide basic services including water, roads, health facilities and electricity to marginalised areas to the extent necessary to bring the quality of those services in those areas to the level generally enjoyed by the rest of the nation, so far as possible”. Indeed, the law doesn’t restrict the Fund’s use to only marginalised counties but also makes it accessible to “counties in which marginalised communities exist”, such as within Vihiga. So of what use is the Equalisation Fund accruing Sh12.4 billion idling in some Treasury account since 2011? Isn’t it a scandal of enormous proportions that Parliament is seized with deceitful ‘creative’ Treasury accounting where non-existent projects are logged as having been implemented using the Fund? If Treasury were to be believed, how would billions lie idle at Central Bank vaults when government is struggling to pay salaries? Again, since when did Treasury roll over one budget over another without funds being committed to specific projects? Treasury has been caught with its hand in the cookie jar. While it’s unfortunate that Treasury isn’t living up to its obligations on the Equalisation Fund, it is pleasant that Treasury is listed to discuss the apt “Resourcing counties for efficient service delivery” in the conference’s last dialogues today. This is an opportunity to interrogate a sly player against devolution, and no amount of civility should come in the way of outing a culprit. The conference would have an optimistic outcome were it to resolve an overhaul of the state accounting agencies of devolution, beginning with the Leviathan role of the Treasury in county financial affairs. At the initiation of devolution, it sounded novel to let Treasury manage the Equalisation Fund. But it’s time the Fund was shared at source to the beneficiary counties. Water, roads and health facilities are county functions. And when the protector of the family jewels turns rogue, it is time to evacuate the jewels. We must amend the mongrel Public Finance and Management Act to deter Treasury meddling. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,