The season might only be at the quarter way stage but with his side seemingly failing to keep up with the leading duo in the race for the Kenyan Premier League title, Sam Ssimbwa has resigned as Sofapaka coach. The tactician threw in the towel following a humiliating 2-1 loss to lowly-ranked Thika United in a Kenyan Premier League match on Sunday at Thika Stadium. Former Kenyan international and Sofapaka striker John Baraza will take charge, although in an acting capacity as the 2009 look for a replacement. Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa confirmed Ssimbwa departure, saying that the Ugandan tactician asked to step aside citing players sabotage. Sssimbwa took charge of Sofapaka in January 2017. His resignation, as surprising as it is, comes in the wake of Matahare United opening a four-point lead at the top of the standings after their narrow win over 10-time winners Tusker. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia head coach Dylan Kerr believes positive attitude will be key in their Caf Confederation Cup preliminary return leg match against South African side SuperSport in a fortnight. Gor reaped a 1-0 win at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos and will put it in line when they face the 2017 beaten finalist who at the Lucas Moripe Stadium. Kerr believes his players are capable of producing an away win or a draw which will warrant them a place in the group stages where a Sh27m award waits. Kerr said: “I think with good attitude, we stand a chance of winning the return match. SuperSport is a big team with great players but I believe we can seal a place in the group stages. This is a bit simpler compared to the Esperance match and I challenge the boys to replicate the mentality we had in Tunis. SuperSport are more interested in surviving relegation than progressing further in the Confederation Cup and I think that’s a plus for us.” However, SuperSport skipper Dean Furman believes home advantage will be crucial. “We will have the home advantage and I believe we can overturn the results. We did it last year and we are capable of repeating the same. Gor is a good team. I am aware they are the current league champions and we ought to treat them with the respect they deserve.” Click here for the latest political news