KeNHA has warned motorists against using the Kawalathe drift along Lokichar Nadapal highway due to dangers brought on by flooding. In a statement on Monday, the authority said they should exercise caution while approaching the section and not attempt crossing any flooded parts. Communications officer Charles Njogu said the situation is being monitored closely and that updates will be given regularly. On Sunday, flooding paralysed transport for at least 24 hours on the road that links Kenya to Uganda, Ethiopia and South Sudan. Many motorists were also stranded on the banks of Kawalase, Kalemorongok and Turkwel rivers. Pastoralists and fishermen in Turkana county were also warned of dangers due to the heavy rains. In an advisory last Thursday, Disaster management executive Charles Lokyoto asked pastoralists to avoid riverbeds. "Livestock and pastoralists can get killed," he noted. "In 2017, pastoralists lost nearly 3,000 livestock in Turkana North and Loima." The heavy rains have also raised the levels of water at Kainuk bridge on Kalemorok river, rendering routes to Lodwar, Lokichogio and South Sudan impassable. Residents want the Kenya National Highways Authority to fortify the bridge which has collpased several times before. "It's not the first time we are raising alarm about Kainuk bridge. [The government should] construct a better bridge," James Ejore, a lorry driver said. A temporary drift at Kainuk, along the Kitale-Lokichar-Lokichar-Nadapal corridor, has been over-topped by floodwaters. KeNHA had limited use of the bridge to four-tonne vehicles due to its state. More on this: KeNHA repairs broken Kainuk bridge, okays use Most of the seasonal rivers that include Tarach, Natira, Kalemngorok and Kosipir were still flooded on Monday. A vehicle belonging to the Catholic Diocese in Lodwar was swept away in Kawalase river on Sunday as the driver headed to Moroto in Uganda. Witness Kevin Ekai said the driver lost control. Four people were saved. An Eldoret Express bus from Kakuma to Lodwar was also swept away but there were no casualties. James Lokwale, who is Turkana county's trade director, asked KeNHA to quickly construct a stronger bridge. "I was shocked when the floodwaters at Kainuk bridge nearly swept away a lorry [on its way to] Lodwar. Business people are unable to transport their goods to markets on time," he said. Also read: Turkana river overflows due to rains, Kainuk bridge intact Click here for the latest political news 