It is their right of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi to talk and express their feelings about forming a coalition, whether it succeeds or not. That does not mean it has been translated to reality. The 2022 General Election is still far away and I am sure the people of Western Kenya will sit back and watch how and when these two political groups will bring them together. It is too early to say the unity pact between Ford Kenya and ANC has succeeded. It is just their wish. Uniting a Western Kenya nation is not a political function; the question is whether people are willing to work together. What brings people together might not necessarily be politics because not all people from the region came out to vote in the last election. Uniting the Luhya community should be removed from politics. Western region is full of religion, tradition, culture and it is highly sophisticated in education. It has leading journalists, professors, doctors, engineers and other great minds who should be brought together. The unity of Luhya nation does not necessarily depend on Ford Kenya or ANC. We should be looking at something else while talking about the Luhya nation, the driving force. Western region has always produced presidential candidates and there will be many more aspirants. People should be given the opportunity to practice politics during electioneering periods so voters can gauge on what they can harvest from each leader. Today, all emphasis should be on developing Western Kenya, together with aid-out government policies and directives. People of Western must not be distracted at this time from following the development trend, at the expense of political leadership. Let us wait on political alignments that will be made before 2022, as far as succession politics is concerned, because that is a political index. Let’s wait to see how politics will form itself. We don’t want to pre-empt it since we want those alignments to succeed. It must not be based on the fact people failed to capture positions in the last election. Let people rest and forget the experience they have gone through, let go of their bitterness, despite the struggle witnessed during last year’s election. Politicians who lost should sit back, redraft and recreate themselves better, but not entrench their anger, acrimony and name-calling. The writer is Labour Party chairperson and former Funyula MP