Newly-elected Mombasa MCAs are complaining about how the county assembly and the executive are managed. The ward reps are unhappy about being forced to say yes to everything presented to them. Some say they only go to the assembly as routine. Most are afraid to speak out openly for fear of repercussion. “The town is dead. Mombasa should be sold and each resident given their share of the proceeds and look for a place to go,” one MCA said. “There is no flow of cash, no business, no jobs. Even the potato sellers close early, saying nobody is buying their fried chips. It has become an unnecessary luxury.” Reports indicate the second-term MCAs are advising the first-timers to toe the line or have their political careers killed. “The problem is the Mombasa administration. When we came to the assembly we were told ‘this is the system. If you want to, you can adhere. If you don’t, step aside’,” a second MCA said. But Raphael Bwire (Junda), Tobias Samba (Tudor) and Renson Thoya (Mikindani) said there is no meddling in the assembly. “Some of the complaints are personal,” Samba said. The first-timers said they hoped to change the way the county is run, but have found deep-rooted hurdles. “There are new MCAs but the administration is the same. So, it is business as usual,” a third MCA said. “Our job is to leave our homes and head to the assembly to pass legislation brought to us.” The ward rep said the majority of the MCAs follow ‘the system’, making opposition almost useless. “Many MCAs are frustrated. They only wait for the end of the month to pick their cheques. Sometimes they are forced toe the line so that things can work in their wards and appease their supporters.” Mjambere MCA Fahad Kassim once openly challenged Governor Hassan Joho’s leadership and ended up being frustrated in the county assembly. He was threatened by unknown people, forcing him to seek police protection. Some of the MCAs say it is useless to try and make a meaningful contribution. “If you oppose a motion they brought they may send county askaris to clamp your car, just to frustrate you.” Another MCA said motions passed in the assembly are sometimes secretly amended outside the assembly to suit the administration, an allegation deputy speaker Fadhili Mwalimu denied. Mwalimu, who is the Port Reitz MCA, said all issues in the assembly are done procedurally. “No motion can be amended outside the assembly,” he said. “I have not received any complaint that an MCA has had their car clamped. Maybe some people are looking for headlines like lawyer Miguna Miguna,” Mwalimu said.