Residents of Kisumu city have been assured that the relocation of Kachok dumpsite is on schedule and will be completed within the stipulated timelines. City manager Doris Ombara yesterday downplayed claims that the relocation process had stalled completely few months after it started saying the evacuation of the dumpsite was still on course. This comes after different concerns by a section of residents were raised as to why the process had stopped for some time and what might be the possible reason. However, she admitted that the exercise was temporarily delayed due to late release of funds to the county government from the National Treasury. The exercise,that will cost the county Sh99 million, is set to take two and a half months to completely move the waste to the new site. A lining at the base of the quarry with a geo membrane, a high density plastic was placed. This will prevent any infiltration that could contaminate underground water. Pipes that will drain any liquid content should there be rain or any water were also placed. The waste being ferried to the site by lorries will be covered to prevent spillage on the road. Each lorry, after it has been loaded with waste, will be sprayed with a special chemical called oduorcale to reduce the smell. The city manager noted that due to the rainy conditions they had to do more lining at the Kajulu landfill and will continue doing so as more waste are brought to the site. Ombara said that the due processes were followed before the relocation of the waste to Kajulu was begun including getting approvals from the National Environmental Management Authority (NEMA ) and various scientific issues considered. She claimed that a group of former county officials who she did mention were out to scuttle the ongoing dumpsite relocation by spreading propaganda over the process. “As we speak now am at the site and our machinery are back to the site and I can assure you that the relocation process has picked up again smoothly," she told the Star on Phone. Ombara said the removal of the garbage site was for the good of the city hence it must not politicised. “We even have the people from Nairobi and Mombasa coming to learn lessons from here on how we are undertaking this process," she said. Click here for the latest political news 