Title: New Year Artiste: Octopizzo Genre: hip hop/ rap Release: April 4  Octopizzo must have been apprehensive about dropping a new album the same day as American rapper J Cole. For an album that was going to shatter first-day streaming records, it's expected. Ideally, attention is everything and all ears were on Cole's KOD. However, the release proved to be a proper test of Octopizzo's mastery and indeed he proved to the world he is a force to reckon with.  The rapper's 2016 collaborative project's success was second only to his deft engagement of refugees from various countries. Refugeenius was well executed. Now on his fourth LP, Octopizzo has elected to deliver a composed, futuristic compilation that aims for positivity.  Having 10 years of experience in the hip-hop scene, New Year, in some way, is a cautionary tale for all of us. Storytelling through well-thought-out wordplay lyricism has always been Octopizzo's strength - a skill he incorporates in this release. Somehow, it's become better as he's become cool-headed. He has grown beyond the streets and effectively mastered the art of getting his work out there - capitalising on streaming platforms and employing the right strategies.  The album opener is quite captivating, with Octopizzo revisiting his roots through a narration done over traditional instrumentation by a man who seems to be in his senior years. This is then followed by the rapper officially welcoming the world to his album on We Can. He begins to excel on the third track Jazzy,  which is a dedication to his late parents.  Monopoly, BITD and Let's Get It featuring Kay Green are spirited tunes and great lyrical showcases that embody Octopizzo's great deal of effort and endurance. The album lead single Nu Afrika takes it to another level, with the artiste showing his appreciation for the diverse skill and ability found on the continent. Noma Ni delves into his triumphant journey in music as he hits hard at his challengers, borrowing a line from Khaligraph's Mazishi.  Nitasha Randhawa makes a guest appearance on Miss Me and Past. The former is a soulful love story, the latter encourages listeners to move past their troubles. Octopizzo recruits his daughter Tracy to co-star on Eight as he continues to groom her to probably follow in his footsteps. Discerning listeners will notice that Octopizzo is yet to release two tracks - Pablo featuring Taio Tripper and Pay Ca$h - already on the album's track list.  Throughout it all, he continues to avoid the boxed-in fates of his usual rivals who have resolved to release endless hits that lack authenticity. Octopizzo's curiosity allows him to demonstrate his ingenuity when it comes to packaging and arranging his music. Whether he raps over a boom bap or trap drum sequence he understands the power of artistic freedom and endless work ethics.  Star rating: 4 out of 5 