The father of Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and more than 50 athletes, are among more than 1,000 people facing eviction. This follows disputes that have erupted concerning ownership of a 700- acre farm in Eldoret. The prime land valued at billions of shillings is near Eldoret Airstrip and the site where the Sh50 billion Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital is to be put up. The farm is said to have been bought by the Marakwet Development Association (MDA) and sold to 954 people 17 years ago. Some of the athletes have protested that MDA officials have resold their land, leading to ownership disputes and possible evictions. Association chairman Maj (Rtd) John Kipchumba said the athletes bought the land illegally from fraudsters and do not have valid documents. “We have not sold out land belonging to anyone at the farm and those complaining are part of former committee members who have no valid documents to own the land they are claiming,”Kipchumba said. The 2010 New Delhi Commonwealth Marathon Champion John Kelai had bought an acre. His family now says they now risk eviction after the plot was purchased. “We have been told to get off the land if we will not accept the small portion we are being given and not the entire acre that we bought,” Kelai’s wife Susan, said. She pledged said the family would not move unless they are paid current market value of their land. Marathoner Abraham Chelanga said officials of the group should ensure justice and all those who bought land must get their rightful shares. Elias Kimuron, the father of Governor Tolgos, said he bought an acre on the farm initially known as Kiplombe Farm, and claims that half of his property has been sold. The MDA chair said, however, they had an operations office in Eldoret and those with complaints should forward their issues to be addressed based on available documents. Kipchumba said MDA officials would stick to records and resolve any disputes on the land. “I will even meet with Uasin Gishu commissioner Abdi Hassan and explain to him the details of the land,” Kipchumba said. In January, two families in Eldoret let out a sigh of relief after the Court awarded them Sh4.5 billion as compensation for a land they had lost. Click here for the latest political news