Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has proposed an expansion to the current devolved structure of government. Raila told the Devolution Conference on Wednesday that Kenya should now adopt three tiers of government, a proposal that was shelved before the 2010 referendum. "As a matter of lasting solution to the problem posed by sizes of devolved units, we need to bite the bullet and revisit the structure of devolution," Raila said. "... the Bomas draft divided Kenya into 14 regions, it is time to look at how to recover this original spirit.. my proposal is we adopt a three-tier system of government." Raila said Kenya should retain the current Counties but establish 14 regional or provincial blocks as units of disbursement of resources and the National government. "... and retain the national government as a very clear formula for even sharing," he said. Read:Raila to deliver keynote address at devolution conference Raila said counties should explore the formation of economic blocks and work together, without regard to political affiliations of their leaders. "Good governance and political leadership are at the heart of devolution. A Governor’s manifesto must find its way into the county development plan to inform social and economic development plan," he said. He said development must be a straightforward march and not a zig-zag process. "Achievements mean that Kenyans want more. The corruption network is eating devolution from inside out. MCAs and county speakers have on several occasions been accused of conflict of interest," he said. Raila said internal Audit and Procurement departments can make or break a county adding that those appointed in these offices must be accountable individuals. "We have county officers who want to delay projects because they are making money. They are the contractors and at the same time playing oversight," he said. He said the MCAs were also holding governors at ransom adding that they are being paid to pass the county executives. "In the March 9th handshake, we identified corruption as an existential threat. We must deal with it at all levels. We must encourage whistleblowers. Soon the corrupt will find themselves on their own," he added. Also read: Uhuru, Raila top guests at fifth devolution conference in Kakamega Click here for the latest politicla news