The Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation has released a list of chemicals that farmers should use to control the army worm. The five insecticides that have been recommended include Abamectin + Chlorantraniliprole (e.g. Voliam Targo 063 SC), Lufenuron (e.g. Match 50EC), Chlorantraniliprole (e.g. Coragen 20SC), Emamectin benzoate (e.g. Prove 1.92EC), Pyriproxyfen (e.g. Profen 10.8EC) and Acephate (e.g. Orthene Pellet). The pest has once again invaded farms in Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nandi, Bomet, Kitale and some parts of Central region and for the time being, the only way to control the pest is use of chemicals. This is a very expensive exercise for farmers who also have to incur high costs of fertiliser and seeds. Kalro director general Dr Eliud Kireger cautioned farmers to only purchase chemicals from authentic dealers to ensure they use the right chemicals. Kireger said farmers should alternate products with different active ingredients, preferably after two applications to prevent pesticide resistance development. “Spraying should be done late in the evening or very early in the morning when the larvae are active. Direct the spray to the plant whorls (funnel) and top leaves and repeat spraying two to three times to target young larvae that emerge after earlier sprays. This can be done at two weeks intervals or as guided by scouting observations,” he advised. Agriculture chief administration secretary Andrew Tuimur yesterday confirmed that the army worm problem will not go away any time soon and so far the only control measure is the use of chemicals. He encouraged farmers to monitor their farms to identify the pest early enough and spray it before it causes more damage. “Farmers should look under the leaf and if they spot eggs, spray immediately without waiting until when part of the leaves have been eaten. Spraying immediately helps control the worm and reduce the damage,” he said while speaking to the Star. Tuimur said the ministry has dispatched officials to the ground to assist County Governments that have been affected, and also to advise farmers on the right chemicals to use. He said the responsibility of controlling the pest lies with the County Governments, hence the need to allocate more resources to mitigate the pest. The CAS said so far, the government has allocated Sh300 million to Kalro for rapid assessment and to research on the suitable chemicals that farmers can use to control the pest. Another Sh50 million has also been set aside for the State Department of Crops to assist where possible. Last year, over 800,000 hectares were affected by the armyworm in Trans Nzoia, Kitale, Uasin Gishu, Kericho, Nandi, Bomet, Narok, West Pokot, Baringo, Nakuru, Bungoma, Busia, Siaya, Kisumu, Kwale and Central Kenya Counties. Maize harvest reduced by 25 percent from the projected harvest of 37 million bags to 32 million bags due to fall army worm and other factors including drought and post harvest losses.     