That devolution is a novel idea is undeniable. However, what can be done to solve the problems that seem to bedevil county governments? Counties have performed especially dismally with regard to accountability and the rule of law. Part of the problem is the duty holders’ lack of willingness to bow to the legal requirements of the new Constitution on transparency, personal responsibility, representation, equality and non-discrimination, as well as leadership and integrity. As we laud devolution for taking power, resources and decision-making to the grassroots, it is undeniable that there has been misuse of resources, corruption and lack of constructive ideas among most governors, MCAs and county officials. At this year’s Devolution Conference in Kakamega last week, the national government, county governments, political formations — especially after the ‘handshake’ — the Judiciary and civil society congregated to praise devolution and what it has achieved thus far. They declared that the various arms of government had begun to work in concert. Raila Odinga, in his keynote address, praised devolution for delivering unprecedented development in infrastructure, education and healthcare. He cited self-enrichment, nepotism and cronyism as some of the problems in the counties. Curiously, he also opined that the number of counties is too large and suggested they be reduced from 47 to 14. He said the youth are overlooked and pointed out the conflict of interest among MCAs and speakers who conduct business with the counties, yet they are supposed to provide oversight. Many would agree that Kenya has too many counties that altogether cause a serious bulge in terms of duplication of functions and lead to a bloated wage bill. However, any proposed change to the constitutional structure touching on the objects, principles and structure of devolved government must be subjected to a referendum as per Article 255 (i) of the Constitution. Other proposals that must be subjected to plebiscite include bringing back the position of Prime Minister and the entrenchment of CDF in the Constitution. In my opinion, it is not yet the time to fundamentally change the structure of the Constitution. It would be prudent to tackle endemic waste of resources, graft, parochialism and discrimination in the counties before we hold a referendum. No referendum can end devolved misbehaviour such as looting. These issues can only be addressed when citizens are empowered by access to information through free and constructive media. When they understand that leadership and integrity are constitutional requirements and the resources are theirs to begin with because they come from their taxes. The criminal justice system, from the police to the DCI, EACC and the Judiciary, should be empowered to thoroughly investigate and prosecute criminals at the national and county levels. The counties must complete contracts on time and the national government must commit to disburse county funds on time. Cases of payments to individuals and companies that have done work for county governments being unduly delayed – sometimes for more than a year should be a thing of the past. Quite often, these people have loan obligations to meet and these delays have far reaching implications on their finances, their ability to employ and their potential to do other work. it also has a macroeconomic effect. In an open democratic society such as Kenya, the principle of the rule of law dictates that the government, its officials and agents as well as individuals and private entities are accountable under the law. It means that laws are clear, publicised, stable and just; that process by which the laws are enacted, administered and enforced is accessible, fair, and efficient. And, most importantly, that justice is delivered on time by competent, ethical, and independent officers. So far, the only problem is that the justice system has not risen to the occasion to tackle abuse of office and corruption at the national and county levels. Without this, devolution will never meet its potential of taking Kenya to the next level. Equally, the Big Four agenda will be hard to achieve when individuals believe that they can loot without consequences. The tiger economies such as Singapore and countries such as Norway attest to the fact that a country can transform its people’s economic fortunes within one or two generations. Clear policies and the rule of law are prerequisites. Senior legal officer, Article 19 Eastern Africa demaslaw@gmail.com @kipdema  