Online taxi drivers in Mombasa have downed their tools protesting what they call exploitation by firms running taxi-hailing apps. The drivers parked their cars along the Mombasa-Malindi road just outside Butterfly Pavilion, forcing any taxi to stop and join the strike. The drivers said the firms Uber, Taxify, Little Cab and Mondo-Ride have exploitative rates that are of no benefit to the taxi drivers. Yusuf Ibrahim, who uses both Uber and Taxify, said they fail to hit the target set by their partners most of the time because of the low fares. Partners are vehicle owners who hire drivers to take clients around and wait for a set amount at the close of business every day. Most of the partners ask for between Sh1,500 and Sh2,000 a day. "For the same distance that a tuk tuk charges Sh300, we are forced to charge Sh150. We don’t understand whether tuk tuks are better than us," Ibrahim said. Read: Taxify launches Tuk Tuk app for Mombasa riders Paul Mwanzia said this is despite the taxis being forced by clients to switch on the air conditioning and stay in traffic jams for long hours. "The Taxifys, Ubers, Little Cabs and Mondo-Rides do not care about the condition of our vehicles yet we fuel and service the cars at your own cost." "The insurance, tyre costs, and county levies are all on the driver. Then they take a huge cut from every ride," Mwanzia. Uber takes 25 per cent of the fare while Taxify takes 15 per cent. Mwanzia said Taxify has no cancellation fee, hence making clients play games with taxi drivers with last-minute cancellations despite the fuel burned during pick-up. They further said the fuel prices at the moment do not allow the drivers to charge as low as Sh150. James Mwaniki, another taxi driver, said at first the online cab-hailing firms had good rates but they the lowered the rates once business picked up. "At first, they used to pay us Sh60 per kilometer. We were doing good business. But later they reduced the commission to Sh32 per kilometer." Some of the taxi drivers said they use their own vehicles which they bought using loans, the same becoming difficult to repay because of low returns. "Our colleagues have had their vehicles repossessed by financial institutions for defaulting on repayment," Mwaniki said. Bernard Otieno said the firms have been making false promises to the effect of rectifying some of the issues the drivers have been raising with them. "It is now three months and nothing has happened. We don’t want them in Mombasa anymore," Otieno said. Click here for the latest political news     