There was a man sitting on a stone bench out in the garden. It was a small garden, a patch of lawn encircled by a manicured hedge about knee high. Looking over the garden, overshadowing it almost, was the three-storey hospital ward building. The man was middle-aged. He was dressed in hospital pyjamas, the same colour as the grass under his feet, and he also had on a dressing gown, green as well, but a pale shade of green on account of one too many washes. A male patient sitting on a bench out in the hospital garden is not a strange sight, except it was 3 O’clock in the morning. It was quiet, nobody else around, just the man on the bench, in deep, serene thought. How the man came to be in hospital is a story that started just over a month and a half ago. First it was a feeling of lethargy, and then pain in his joints, swiftly followed by such fatigue that the man could not even move around in his own house. There had been visits to doctors, tests done that didn’t reveal much, and countless pills subscribed, but all for nothing, for the man’s health only got worse. And so, here he was on a bench at a hospital at 3am, finally admitted, an in-patient for the last couple of days. It was Friday. On Monday the man was scheduled for a biopsy, this time to check for lymphatic cancer. The man was shocked at first, but not shocked for long. He had made a decision. He was not going to fight it. After two months of being sick, he was tired, angry at first that his body was failing him, and then just tired at the thought of getting even sicker from the chemo. Settled in his mind that he was going to die if the test results were bad come Monday, the man sat on the bench, thinking about his life. The thought of a bucket list did not cross his mind, for he had lived on his own terms, following his passions and doing exactly what he wanted to do with his life. It was a good life. Even when he remembered the bad bits, the man smiled. His life, thus far, had been a trip. He was still in love with his wife after decades of marriage. In between, there had been a great love affair. And he had two wonderful, yet unfathomably complex, teenage kids. The man had no regrets. A little guilt about the affair, but overall, no regrets. The rattling sound from the wheels of a rushing hospital stretcher interrupted the man’s thoughts, and he turned to look. Two nurses and a doctor were hurriedly moving a patient through the corridor; a defibrillator was on the patient. It looked like an emergency. As the rattling wheels echoed away, the man returned to his thoughts. He did not want to die. He would miss so much even the things that annoyed him. Then, the man looked up to the night sky, at the stars, and a thought, a voice, perhaps his own, crossed his mind and passed his lips: ‘You’re not in charge here, you never were.’ The man, smiling, nodded in agreement. Life is saying yes to what is, the good and the bad. Our job is to simply live it, the rest you leave to the Boss upstairs. He’s in charge.