Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has protested the exclusion of youths in the team which will steer President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga's unity talks. The list of fourteen advisors was unveiled on Sunday. They are Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Florence Omose, Mzee James Matundura, Maj Rtd John Seii and Bishop Lawi Mathiu. Others are Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Museo, and Zaccheaus Okoth. Read: Uhuru, Raila appoint advisors to steer unity talks Malala on Monday said it is unfortunate that the two leaders did not include any youth representative yet it is the youth who suffer most in times of violence. He said that in the unlikely event that is not possible to include youth in the "Building Bridges Initiative", a parallel youth committee be formed to champion the healing and reconciliation agenda. "At the apex of our political animosity, violence and tribal intolerance in this country, it is usually the youths who bear the brunt and dangers that emanate there-from." Malala said that even during the post-election violence of 2007 and 2017, the youth were the majority among those who lost their lives. "It is the youth that walked on streets with twigs and placards to amplify the positions of their leaders. It is the youths that burn tyres and barricade roads to mount political pressure." "It is demoralising that the two respected leaders did not deem it fit to include them in their unity team," the legislator said. Malala said he welcomes the reconciliatory tone and the wave of handshake in the country, "but the two leaders must consider including youths in the team." "I would love to see youths from Kondele in Kisumu touring Murang’a county to spread the handshake. I would love to see the youths from Shibale market in Kakamega shaking hands with youths of Kapsoit in Kericho county." "And this will only be spearheaded by youthful representation in the steering committee," he said. The 14 advisors shall work under the direction of the building bridges initiative secretariat which is headed by ambassador Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. The initiative was launched by the two leaders on March 9, 2018, to create a united nation for all Kenyans and future generations. Click here for the latest political news