It is high time Kenya starts talking about love and not wars, 'Rafiki' film-maker Wanuri Kahiu has said. The Kenya Film Classification Board banned the film themed on homosexuality. This came days after President Uhuru Kenyatta said that gay rights are of less important to Kenyans. More on this: Kenya bans lesbian based film 'Rafiki' ahead of Cannes Festival Also read: Gay rights is non-issue in Kenya, Uhuru says during CNN interview Speaking to Reuters on April 27, Kahiu said film-makers have a constitutional right to express themselves without interference. "Our film is just a film. We were not making it to challenge anything. We were making it as a film." "Just to say, this is a story that was beautifully written and now we are making it into a film. It was an artistic expression," she said. Kahiu said she intended to make a love story out of the film since Kenya needs change out of the norm. "...its just high time, it's really, really is high time that we spend as must of our energy talking about about the love that exists in Kenya and on the continent as all the other subjects that we talk about," she said. "We spend a lot of time talking about devastation war disease, its high time we started talking about love.This was just a story." Noting that some of the international films they watch in Kenya are taboo, Kahiu said their space as artists is to be able to tell stories. "....we have an opinion or we don't have an opinion and that's all we are asking for our film, is that not everybody... you don't have to watch it. We were asking for an 18 rating so that adults can come watch the film, have a conversation about what was happening in the film and take it from there," she said. Kahiu said the film was taken from the book 'Jambula Tree' by Ugandan writer Monica Arac de Nyeko, which was a Caine prize winner in 2007. "We adapted a book, an East Africa book into film. That was our role, as film-makers and as creatives. Once the film was announced that it was invited to Cannes Film festival as the first Kenyan feature film, we got lots of support," she said. But she noted that once the film was banned before it even aired, it received a backlash. "Unfortunately, because of the recent banning we are getting backlash, that is... first, it's not accurate, because nobody has seen the film. Now we have lots of opinions about a film that nobody has seen and that has been banned," she said. The film suffered a major blow as it marks the first Kenyan feature film be in this year's Cannes International Film Festival next month. Rafiki, which means friend in Swahili is a love story of two women and is the first ever Kenyan film to premiere at the prestigious festival in France. Homosexuality is taboo across Africa and people who are gay face discrimination or persecution. In recent years, however, campaigners for lesbian, bisexual, gay and transgender rights have become increasingly vocal. The ban coincides with a landmark case brought by gay rights campaigners to repeal Kenya's law on gay sex on the grounds that it deprives sexual minorities of basic rights. The National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission (NGLHRC) is one of the groups that petitioned the court to repeal sections of a colonial era Penal Code, which it says violate constitutional rights to equality, dignity and privacy. More on this: Kenya awaits ruling in landmark case to legalise gay sex Also read: Don’t sneak gayism through back door, clerics urge court In 2015, the films board banned "Fifty Shades of Grey". The film is an adaptation of the first book of a popular erotic trilogy by E.L James. Click here for the latest political news