British Prime Minister Theresa
May appointed a former banker of South Asian origin as interior
minister on Monday, trying to draw a line under an immigration
scandal threatening her authority as she negotiates Brexit. Sajid Javid, the son of immigrants from Pakistan, replaces
Amber Rudd, who quit as Home Secretary after acknowledging she
had "inadvertently misled" parliament by denying the government
had targets for the number of illegal migrants Britain deports. British ministers have struggled for two weeks to explain
why some descendants of the so-called "Windrush generation",
invited to Britain from its former colonies to plug labour
shortfalls between 1948 and 1971, were denied basic rights. But in trying to solve one problem, May risked creating
another by changing the balance of views in her top team on
plans to leave the European Union. Rudd opposed Brexit but
Javid, a lukewarm "remainer", has said that after the
referendum, "in some ways, we are all Brexiteers now". The scandal has weighed on May, who, after winning support
for tough responses on Russia and Syria, has lost a close ally
and must now try to overcome rifts in her Conservative Party
over Brexit, especially on future customs arrangements with the
European Union. Javid, the first lawmaker from Britain's Black, Asian and
Minority Ethnic community to become interior minister, distanced
himself in parliament from the "hostile environment" policy on
illegal immigration pursued by May when she was home secretary. "We are going to have a strategy in place ... about making
sure that we have an immigration policy that is fair, it treats
people with respect and with decency, and that will be one of my
most urgent tasks," Javid told Sky News earlier on Monday. A spokesman for May said Javid, who had been minister for
housing, communities and local government, "has proved his
drive, his ambition and determination to get to grips with
difficult subjects, and these are abilities which will all be
required at the Home Office". May will hope Javid's appointment deflects public anger over
a problem the opposition Labour Party says is at least partly
her fault because she spent six years as home secretary. Out campaigning on Monday, May defended the use of targets
to tackle illegal immigration and declined to answer directly
when asked whether she should take the blame for what opposition
lawmakers call a toxic culture at the Home Office. BREXIT BALANCE While aimed at ending the scandal, Javid's appointment may
also signal a shift on Brexit. Rudd was one of the most outspokenly pro-EU members of May's
cabinet and could now join other Conservative lawmakers voting
in favour of keeping the closest possible ties with the bloc. Her position on May's Brexit committee, a cabinet
sub-grouping balanced between those who supported staying in the
EU and those who wanted to leave, will now go to Javid. His stance is less clear. An admirer of late prime minister
Margaret Thatcher, he strongly supports free markets. Several
pro-Brexit campaigners have said he is now firmly on their side
and will oppose attempts to keep Britain so close to the EU. That committee will meet this week to try to come up with a
future customs arrangement with the EU that avoids a return to a
hard border on the island of Ireland. In the Irish border town of Dundalk, the bloc's Brexit
negotiator Michel Barnier said this would require rapid
progress, and that a real risk remained of Britain leaving the
bloc without an overall deal on future relations. There are more challenges ahead. The upper house of
parliament on Monday defeated May's government for the seventh
time in two weeks by backing changes to legislation that will
end Britain's EU membership in March next year. The House of Lords voted in favour of giving parliament
powers to force the government back to the negotiating table,
and even to halt Britain's departure, if lawmakers do not think
a final Brexit deal is good enough. The proposals do have to be agreed by both chambers before
they can become law, but could severely test May's slim working
majority in the lower house next month. TOUGH JOB Javid's primary job at the interior ministry, or Home
Office, will not be an easy one either. The department is one of the toughest to lead, responsible
for immigration, the police and security at a volatile time of
public spending cuts, Islamist attacks and Brexit talks. May was the longest-serving home secretary in decades before
becoming prime minister, and some opposition figures have
accused her of drawing up overly harsh immigration policies. Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the main opposition Labour Party,
again called on her to answer questions about her time at the
Home Office, when "she was presiding over, in her terms, the
creation of a 'hostile environment'". Rudd lasted less than two years, becoming the fourth
minister May has lost to scandals in the last six months. After days of apologies, she wrote in her resignation letter
that she should have been aware of the deportation targets, but
added that Britons "want people who have a right to live here to
be treated fairly and humanely, which has sometimes not been the
case" - a criticism of her own ministry, and perhaps of May. May will hope Javid, known for a passion for detail when
business minister, can ease the pressure on the ministry. But some doubted whether he would soften the approach to
immigration. "Sajid Javid is one of the most right-wing
anti-immigration politicians in the Conservative Party," said Dr
Kehinde Andrews, an associate professor at Birmingham City
University who specialises in race issues. "The fact that his skin is brown does not change anything in
that at all."