A few months
ago, nobody would have predicted that this year’s Devolution Conference would be
headlined by the spirited efforts of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Rt Hon Odinga to
bring the country together. The April 9 handshake has changed Kenya's political trajectory. Leaders are talking to each other, not at each other. They are
channelling their efforts towards the challenges facing voters, not towards
undermining their opponents. However, the
handshake has also set the stage for heightened political speculation. We must
not let politics overshadow the practical steps that both leaders are taking to
implement their unity pledge. One such step is their support for devolution, which
is underlined by their participation in this year’s Devolution Conference in
Kakamega county. Raila has consistently
been in favour of devolution. He was one of the foremost catalysts behind the adoption
of the 2010 Constitution that established the devolved system of government in
2010. Uhuru recently signed the Equitable Division of Revenue
Bill, as a critical step in ensuring the counties get their fair share of the
national budget. We must continue
supporting devolution, but we urgently need to accelerate its pace.This is because
devolution has an important role to play in fostering national unity. It addresses the root cause of disunity, which is the perceived and
actual inequality in resource distribution across different parts of the country. Unequitable
resource allocation promotes a culture of finger pointing between communities,
feeding the raging ogre that is ethnic animosity. To definitively resolve this,
we need to address, urgently, the challenges facing devolution. The most
pressing challenge is the delayed release of funds from the National Treasury,
duplication of functions and unbundled functions to the counties. Whilst the
government has sent more than Sh1 trillion to counties since the onset of
devolution, delays in disbursement of funds are regrettably common, leaving county
workers and suppliers unpaid and unmotivated. In Kakamega, for instance, we
need Sh400 million every month to pay workers’ salaries. Likewise, the
process of determining how much each of the 47 counties gets needs to be
bottom-up, more data-driven and reflective of the realities on the ground. Currently,
there is a widening mismatch between spending needs and revenue allocation in
some counties. This may lead to over-taxation of local businesses. Political
standoffs between the national and county governments over control of resources
also need to cease. Devolution is not about taking power away from one group of
politicians in the capital and giving it to another in the grassroots. Rather,
it is about giving power to the people by bringing services and opportunities closer
to them, especially those in rural areas who have historically been
marginalised, yet comprise 75 per cent of the national population. As governors, senators
and elected leaders in the counties, what have we done to advance devolution? We
need to address the needs of the youths as we nurture devolution. In Kakamega,
where we are finalising the world class Bukhungu stadium as part of our efforts
to nurture sporting talent among the youth, we have learnt that young people
have a meaningful contribution to make. To this end, the youth will be given a
chance to address leaders during the Devolution Conference. Thanks to the
rising tide of expectation among the youth at the counties, young people are now
demanding more transparency and accountability. The youth and
Kenyans at large want leaders who can unlock opportunities at the county level
and help bridge the inequality gap that is at the heart of the disunity that
has rocked this country for far too long. Kenya’s new quest for unity started
with a handshake at Harambee House but will take shape in the counties. Wycliffe Oparanya is the Governor of Kakamega County