Was the exit of three IEBC commissioners related to the politics of the
handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ex-PM Raila Odinga? Well, a
small bird yesterday overheard some NASA MPs who were doing a postmortem of the
exit and the handshake arguing that the resignations were meant to frustrate
the unity deal. The MPs wondered how the exit coincided with the hot debate on
a proposed referendum to expand the executive to accommodate some opposition
leaders in the spirit of national inclusivity. According to the MPs, the departure
of the commissioners was engineered by a powerful government official who is
opposed to the creation of additional offices. IEBC is mandated to oversee any
referendum. **** It is now clear why tempers were rising in the Ruguru MCA by elections in
Mathira leading to the now infamous slapping of a female observer. The Jubilee
candidate, Erastus Karanja, barely scraped through with 4270 votes against
Maendeleo Chap Chap's JS Ndegwa's 3938 votes. Pundits are of the view that what
saved the day for the Jubilee candidate was that Governor Alfred Mutua
announced his Presidential bid while campaigning for his candidate, while
Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria moved in to campaign for the Jubilee candidate in
a two-day last minute pitch making the poll a Kuria-Mutua campaign which the
former finally won. ***** A county commissioner from one of the counties in Nyanza could face the axe
soon if he fails to curb illicit brews in his area. The commissioner who has
been under siege from political leaders from the area for abetting brewing of
illegal brews has been warned by a senior Interior ministry official to shape
up or ship out. Corridors of Power is aware that the commissioner to Harambee
House last week where he received a dress down. The commissioner has been
staging cosmetic crackdowns against illicit brews during the day but sending
his proxies at night to collect kickbacks. His days are now numbered. ***** An opposition-allied MCA from Embakasi East constituency is reportedly
planning to decamp to Jubilee in anticipation of a by-election should the Court
of Appeal uphold the High Court’s nullification of the election of area MP Babu
Owino. The NASA MCA has reportedly been in contact with the ruling party with
the hope of receiving endorsement to fly the party flag in case of a
mini-election. Does it mean that money could have exchanged hands to lure one
of the most loyal opposition politicians from the area? Well, the talk in town
is that the MCA could have pocketed a tidy sum of money ahead of the impending
crossover. ***** Click here for the latest political news