Kenya national anthem was once again sung twice today as world champions Elijah Manangoi and Hellen Obiri bagged two more gold medals at the Carrara Stadium here in Gold Coast. Both Manangoi and Obiri led a 1-2 finish in their respective races as Kenya increased the points tally to 13—four gold, seven silver and six bronze. As expected, Obiri lived up to expectations in the women’s 1,500m, winning in an impressive 15:13.11 as she pulled Margaret Chelimo to second place in 15:15.28. Laura Weightman closed the podium in the event in 15:25.84 while Juliet Chakwel closed the top four places in15:30.17 Kenya’s Eva Chrono was equally outstanding despite placing seventh in a personal best time of 15:36.10. At 17 years and this being her first major outing, athletics enthusiasts are touting her as the next big thing. In men’s 5,000m, Manang’oi clocked 3:34.78 to take gold ahead of Timothy Cheruiyot 3:35.17, who took silver and Scotland’s Jake Wightman, who settled for bronze. Read: Manangoi, Obiri bags two more gold medals for Kenya Like Cherono in the women’s 1,500m, Kumar Taki faded to seventh place, clocking 3:38.74. In an interview, Obiri said she is happy that things went as per the plan despite the fact that they didn’t win gold. She described her partners as promising athletes and urged Athletics Kenya to encourage them. Obiri said they were under pressure to deliver and she is happy that they did not deliver one medal but two. She said apart from taking part in the Diamond League, she will turn her focus on the Africa Championships. “As far as I am concerned, all these events are important and I don’t subscribe to the school of thought that thinks otherwise,” she added. “ I am happy I now have the World and Commonwealth titles and God willing, I will be targeting the Tokyo Olympics in 2020,” she added. She said despite being in a good shape, she has not thought of attacking the 5,000m record. “ I need to plan for it and that means that I forego some of the Diamond League meetings. However, we will see what happens,” Obiri noted. Her next stop will be Diamond League meeting in Doha next month. Chelimo on her part said she followed the game plan to the letter and she is happy that things had worked out for them,” “ I am happy with my silver and I hope it will inspire me to greatness,” she added. Manangoi in an interview said they had planned for a clean sweep but Taki’s inexperience on big stage did him in. “ He has just graduated from the juniors and the fact that he kicked too early took toll on him,” he added He, however, said that Taki will be the next big thing in the three and a half lap race. Like Obiri, he said he coach Bernard Ouma will decide the opportune time for him to attack the record. “ I am enjoying top shape but let my coach decided that,” he added. Cheruiyot was all smiles and thanked team-mates for having catapulted him to silver. “Manangoi was stronger despite engaging him in a sprint finish in the last 50 metres,” he noted. It was, however, a sad day for the Kenyan 4x400m quartet as they were disqualified for field infringement. Botswana won the race in 3:01.78 while Bahamas and Jamaica took silver and bronze in 3:01.92 and 3:01.97 respectively.  Click here for the latest political news