The Garissa livestock department yesterday started mass vaccinations to prevent disease outbreak linked with heavy rains. Speaking to the press in his office, Livestock CEC Issa Yarrow said that the department already has positioned its teams of veterinary officers in all six subcounties to vaccinate animals and prevent any disease outbreak. “We have bought enough drugs, vaccines and testing kits. We shall also be treating animals alongside the vaccination exercise in the event there is an outbreak. We will be pro-active than reactive,” Yarrow said. “During the drought many pastoralists moved with their animals far and wide in search of pasture and water. We anticipate that when it rains they will come back from wherever they are with a lot of diseases,” he added. More than 975,000 head of cattle, 520,000 camels, 1.5 million goats and 600,000 sheep are targeted in the programme. The CEC said animals in the county have already been vaccinated in its quarterly programme. Yarrow told irrigation farmers along the river Tana to move equipment to safer grounds and harvest mature cash crops as soon as possible to avoid flood damage. He said all water pans are being fenced off and urged residents to use shallow wells and reserve the big water pans for the dry season. “This way we won’t have this water trekking problem in the near future,” Yarrow added. “We have all along been praying for the heavens to open up. And thank God he has answered our prayers. We cannot again start lamenting again since every good thing comes with its challenges,” Yarrow said. The Garissa livestock department yesterday started mass vaccinations to prevent disease outbreak linked with heavy rains. Speaking to the press in his office, Livestock CEC Issa Yarrow said that the department already has positioned its teams of veterinary officers in all six subcounties to vaccinate animals and prevent any disease outbreak. “We have bought enough drugs, vaccines and testing kits. We shall also be treating animals alongside the vaccination exercise in the event there is an outbreak. We will be pro-active than reactive,” Yarrow said. “During the drought many pastoralists moved with their animals far and wide in search of pasture and water. We anticipate that when it rains they will come back from wherever they are with a lot of diseases,” he added. More than 975,000 head of cattle, 520,000 camels, 1.5 million goats and 600,000 sheep are targeted in the programme. The CEC said animals in the county have already been vaccinated in its quarterly programme. Yarrow told irrigation farmers along the river Tana to move equipment to safer grounds and harvest mature cash crops as soon as possible to avoid flood damage. He said all water pans are being fenced off and urged residents to use shallow wells and reserve the big water pans for the dry season. “This way we won’t have this water trekking problem in the near future,” Yarrow added. “We have all along been praying for the heavens to open up. And thank God he has answered our prayers. We cannot again start lamenting again since every good thing comes with its challenges,” Yarrow said.   