The delay of decentralising licensing to subcounty levels as well as harassment from the inspectorate department are among challenges facing the trade sector in Nairobi. This is according to a brief on the County Integrated Development Plan 2018-2022 which says the county's trade sector needs to be addressed and mitigated. In reference to the Annual Development Plan of Nairobi, the achievement collection of revenues under the trade sector under-performed with more than Sh1 billion. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Trade CEC Allan Igambi said defaulters are to be blame for the poor performance. "If the people conducting the business fail to pay for licenses and permits definitely the revenue will be below the target," he said. However, Igambi said the county will deal accordingly with defaulters by putting strict regulations on business owners regarding payment. On decentralization of licensing to Sub county level, Igambi said it will be a long term solution and hence improve the the performance of the trade sector within Nairobi. "First, offices have to be constructed in each ward for the work to commence so as to handle the all the licensing required," he said. He also acknowledged the automation of revenue was a good step by the County Government and it will ease the trade sector County with time There has also been claims of the city officers from the inspectorate department harassing the small business owners. "Many small business traders have been complaining that some city officers ask for " tokens" despite having paid the license fee which is against the law," said Igambi He said that the county Government has put in effort and are now on the look out to get rid of corrupt officers who harass the pubic. According to Financial Year 2016/2017 the revenue performance from the Single Business Permits was Sh 1.775 billion compared to a target of sh. 3.6 billion. This was a marginal decline of sh. 15 million from the previous FY 2015/2016 where a total of sh. 1.79 billion was collected.