It is my argument that crazy ideas help push society forward. Things threaten to stay the same until a mad visionary appears. Usually, the idea is fought at first, then later embraced and enjoyed – making it the norm. Almost every new idea goes through the same cycle. Sometimes, the visionary is killed before the message or idea is understood. Then suddenly, the person becomes a hero after death. Crush it. Why is this the status quo’s initial response to an awesome idea? Here are a few thoughts. Fear of Hard Work: It’s a popular belief that people generally dislike change. I do not agree. People are not stupid. They know that change is good and necessary. Often, change means advancement and people enjoy the ease that it brings, eventually. For instance, email has made communication much faster than snail mail and people like it. I think what people dislike is the: hard work involved in effecting change. For technology to advance to the point where we easily send emails, someone had to do the hard work that most people were not interested in. Successful change requires hard work and few people are willing to pay the price. Meanwhile, the unwilling group typically view the visionaries as crazy for willingly engaging in the insane level of hard work needed to shift paradigm. Fear of Uniqueness: Another reason why people fight great ideas is because they feel intimidated when someone else digs deep into levels of uniqueness that they’re unwilling to pursue. It reminds them of their untapped potential – something they would rather forget because they’re too busy with the status quo, chasing the norm. Uniqueness is the fearful, exciting, most rewarding aspect of a person that we trade so we can blend in with the crowd. Anyone who steps out into the unique-arena is quickly ‘stoned’ by the crowd. They would rather have you stay in the comfort zone. To the crowd: uniqueness is scary. Fear of Loss: You would be amazed by the number of people ruled by the fear of what they could lose if they left the status quo. This fear stops them from stepping into a unique lifestyle. Society has a way of showing us what we stand to lose if we pursue an interesting idea. So, in order not to lose anything, we join the fight against great ideas. We don’t want to be called crazy, we want to belong, hence we quickly agree with the crowd – calling the visionary, mad. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com   