Sarah Elderkin is trying to paint Raila Odinga as favouring state's action of denying Miguna Migna re-entry to Kenya, Salim Lone has said. Elderkin, a former Raila aide, launched a savage attack on Miguna and defended his deportation by the Kenya government. "Miguna has failed to follow suit. So, what makes him different? Only his inflated, distorted opinion of himself, which he feels puts him above the law," Elderkin said. More on this: State justified to deport Miguna Miguna, says former aide to Raila Also read: Raila confidante defends Miguna deportation in attack on lawyer But in a statement on Sunday, Lone - Raila's adviser, said opponents of the Opposition leader and President Uhuru Kenyatta pact are "grasping at straws". "Elderkin obviously has the right to express her opinion. Such assertions, made without a shred of evidence, are laughable but scurrilous as well," he said. Lone said Raila has repeatedly shown that he believes Miguna should have been allowed to return home by going to JKIA to try and help him. When the NRMKe general was denied entry through JKIA on March 26, Raila was among top leaders who went to the airport to help secure the lawyer's release. See: Raila intervenes in Miguna airport standoff, cops harass journalists "These utterly baseless accusations about Raila’s position on Miguna are clearly aimed at undermining his standing and the far-reaching initiative he has undertaken with Uhuru to restore inclusion, democracy and the rule of law to Kenya," he said. Lone said there is no other viable option that exists to achieve that fervently-sought goal adding that no one has been able to present another scenario that could achieve this. "There are obviously numerous entrenched interests that are fighting this initiative, and grasping at every straw to undermine him," he added. There has been a fallout within NASA after the March 9 handshake between the two top antagonists of the disputed August, October 2017 presidential election. NASA principals claim that they were not involved in any of the agreements and have waged a war against Raila who they accuse of 'betraying them'. On Saturday, Nasa co-principal Moses Wetangula said their marriage and political engagements with the ODM leader Raila has ended and cannot be renewed. Wetangula said he has cut all his links with Raila whom he termed as a traitor to his NASA colleagues. "My friend Raila, I have no hard feelings for you but our journey with you is over," Wetangula said. More on this: Mulembe 'marriage' with you is over, Wetangula tells Raila NASA's upheavals started after Wetangula, Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi, and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka skipped Raila's January 30 swearing in. Miguna stamped the oath document leading to his ordeal as the state moved to crackdown on the oath planners and executers. See: [VIDEO] I won't apply for tourist visa, adamant Miguna says after JKIA blockade Click here for the latest political news  