Majority of Kenyans prefer constructing or purchasing homes using cash as opposed to taking up a loan facility, recent government survey shows. The Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey shows that atleast 59.4 per cent households in Kenya are owned dwellings. This represents about 6.78 million households. The survey shows 83.1 per cent of homes were constructed using cash while only 3.1 per cent were purchased cash. Only 3.7 per cent were constructed or purchased on loan. In rural areas, 86 per cent of homes were built using cash compared to 73 per cent in urban areas. Wajir County had the highest proportion of households residing in purchased units at 39.4 per cent while Nairobi City reported the highest proportion of households occupying dwellings that were acquired through inheritance recorded at 28.2 per cent. West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Nandi Counties had the highest number of homes constructed using cash at 96 , 94 and 92 per cent respectively. Other counties had about 43.5 to 96 per cent of their households built using cash. An analysis of the survey reveals that 4.63 million households in the country are rented out with over half of them located in urban centres. Majority of them belong to individuals as 73 per cent pay their rent directly to owners, and 19.6 per cent through agents. Only 2.1 per cent pay rent to the government, and 4.3 per cent to companies. In a phone interview with the Star, Paradigm Projects chief executive Jonson Mwangi said the trend of using cash as opposed to taking up a loan is due to the pricing of mortgages which discourages consumers. "As Kenyans we have a bad banking habit which also scares away financial institutions from giving us credit, because they look at our banking history and if we are credit worthy," Mwangi said. The government has announced plans to set up the Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company, scheduled for full incorporation by end of the month. The company will help Kenyans own their houses at affordable rates. It will offer loans to civil servants, the self employed and salaried persons at a fixed interest rate for a minimum period which will be variable if feasible in later years. The loans will be between Sh1 million and Sh15 million for a five to 30 years. On Monday , the government also announced that it will launch a low cost housing project that will see 30,000 houses constructed in Nairobi's Eastland's area, as the ‘Big Four’ agenda takes shape. The project targets to putting up 5,000 houses in Shauri Moyo, 20,000 houses in Makongeni, 3,000 houses in Starehe and 2,000 units in Park Road estates.