Nairobi county government is racing against time to complete projects under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project. On May 10, 2012, the World Bank approved Sh27.89 billion with the projects set to begin its activities in 2014 to May 2019. The project intended to upgrade 15 markets within the Nairobi Metropolitan Region. The intention was to provide an enabling physical space for organized markets,creating market linkages for products, fostering access to services so as to promote efficiency and quality of products, and promoting reliable linkages with financial institutions. However the market projects faced a major hurdle following the constraints of space for the temporary displacement of traders. The devolved unit received Sh2 billion for the construction of multi-storey markets in Karindini Market in Dagoreti, Mwario market, Muthurwa and Uhuru market along Jogoo road. Speaking to the star the county executive for Commerce Allan Igambi said that the storey markets will ensure that they utilized the minimum spaces available. “Nairobi has constraints of space,the multi-storey markets are meant to maximize space hence the advantage but traders are demanding for alternative space for the next two years,” he said. Igambi said that constructions at the Mwario market are ongoing and last week the county begun public participation on Muthurwa market which will be revamped. In 2006, the then Local Government Minister Musikari Kombo commissioned the construction of Muthurwa in an attempt to control hawking and traffic congestion. But instead of the envisioned 24-hour market - complete with basic facilities such as water, restrooms, lighting, a hospital, a police station, multi-storied stalls, a banking hall and an administration office - the location turned filthy. More than 7,000 traders operate at the neglected market characterized by open sewers and garbage pile-ups. Nairobi Director of Markets David Githaiga explained that a plan started in 2014 stalled due to political interference. "Muthurwa Market was meant for hawkers but it does not meet standards so the county proposed its fresh development," Githaiga said. Mwario market that is located on the eastern side of the intersection of Ring road and RingRoad - Ngara roads,will utilize existing modern technology in the construction industry that is eco-friendly. The costs of construction of the market and implementation of ESMP were estimated at Sh 354million and Sh9.5million “Mwariro market is currently out of operation and hence its development will not cause any physical displacement of people living in the area,”read a report by the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment. In Karandini, close to 204 traders and informal settlers in the informal market that are expected to be relocated to pave way for the construction of a new market. Out of these, only 20 are stall owners while 40 are both stall and business owners. There are about 6 informal settlers who are not tradingin the market but residing there. This means that there are approximately 66 structure. The county has 43 markets that are will also be revamped or upgraded by various funding bodies. Japan International Cooperation Agency(JICA) will fund Wakulima market,Africa Development bank to fund a retail market in Kangundo road. Other markets will be factored in the county`s 2018/19 market hence construction to take place by the end of the year. The city residents will also have to wait longer before the county rolls out night market and traders allowed to operate on back streets. Hawkers have remained a menance as they continue to indulge on cat and mouse with city inspectorate.