Nasa principal Moses Wetang’ula has defended the Luhya unity move saying it is unstoppable and that all tribes in Kenya are pursuing it. Wetang'ula and his Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi have launched a new drive to unite the Luhya nation and field a single presidential candidate in 2022. The two leaders said they will fold their Ford Kenya and ANC parties to form a single political entity for that election. More on this: ANC, Ford-K in new Luhya unity drive Related: Drop ill-advised plan for Mulembe party, Lusaka tells Wetang'ula Wetang'ula said ANC Secretary General Barrack Muluka and his Ford Kenya counterpart Eseli Simiyu have been instructed to ensure the merger of the two parties is done quickly. “If you go to Mt Kenya they are solidly behind [President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Kalenjins are solidly behind [DP William] Ruto and our Luo brothers never question whatever Raila tells them to do," he noted. Adding it is only through this unity that his dream for the presidency will be realised, he asked politicians and parties in the region to back him. “To succeed in 2022, I will plead with all my brothers, even those in Jubilee Party, to join our journey because we are all brothers," he said Ndivisi, Bungoma county, on Sunday. The Ford Kenya boss said other political players are opposed to Luhya unity because they know it will be a force to reckon with. Regarding Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, he said he had no problem working with him as it would be futile to seek votes in other parts of the country and ignore his home turf. “My journey is incomplete without togetherness. I need you to succeed,” he said, adding Nasa principal Raila Odinga's ODM party has lost its clout in the region after the mistreatment he underwent. The Senator said he had moved on from what Raila did to him and will only concentrate on unifying the community. "Raila’s time in politics had lapsed and it is time for us to take over Opposition leadership. He let his colleagues down after all." Wetang'ula had said the divorce from the National Super Alliance would be noisy and messy following his removal from the Minority leader post. He was replaced with Opposition lawyer and Siaya Senator James Orengo. Read more: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Also read: Is Orengo out to scuttle Raila and Uhuru unity deal? Click here for the latest political news