The failed partnership plan between Tuskys and Nakumatt has reignited vicious internal wrangles among the former’s shareholders, the Star has established. Tuskys shareholder Yusuf Mugweru, in his bid to stop the partnership, told the Competition Authority of Kenya that he was still pursuing the winding up of the retailer. He saiding it had become impossible to continue working with his co-owners. The retailer is co-owned by siblings. In 2015, Mugweru wrote to his siblings, notifying them of his intention to have the family business wound up.  Mugweru claims the siblings have locked him out of Tuskys’ intimate affairs, including crucial board meetings and company decisions. Tuskys and Nakumatt had filed for an exemption from the competition watchdog to allow them to execute a partnership. Mugweru opposed the move, saying he was still pursuing Tuskys’ winding up. “In support of the objection to the said management and loan agreement herein, we notify you that our client is opposed to the proposed merger with Nakumatt Holdings and will take all necessary legal steps to stop the same without prejudice to its prior notification to wind up Orakam and to apply for the appointment of a receiver to deal with and dispose of its sole asset, Tusker Mattresses Limited to avert further mismanagement and plunder,” Mugweru told CAK. Efforts to reach Tuskys CEO Dan Githua for comment were unsuccessful, as he did not pick calls. With Tuskys pulling out of the proposed deal with Nakumatt, focus will now shift to the wrangles within the management of the retailer. Read: Court orders Nakumatt out of Mombasa's City mall FUNDS TRANSFERRED Tuskys’ siblings have been fighting over control of the retail chain for close to 10 years now, throwing accusations at each other. The retail chain is owned by seven siblings, who inherited it after their father Joram Kamau died in 2002. Mugweru owns a 17.5 per cent stake through Mugweru Investments Limited. Other shareholders are John Kago, who owns 10 per cent through Green Pharm Investments, Stephen Mukuha ( 17.5 per cent) through Mitiki Investments, Sammy Gatei ( 17.5 per cent) through Future Group Ventures Investments Limited, George Gachwe ( 17.5 per cent) through Aliann Investments Limited, Mary Njeri ( 10 per cent) through Kendan Investments Limited and Mary Njoki ( 10 per cent) through Njowawa Investments Limited. In February, Mukuha and Gachwe said they intended to foster relations with Mugweru. They told a chief magistrate’s court that they wanted to initiate talks with their brother. The two are facing five counts of stealing from the retailer. A probe into the claims were done following a complaint by Mugweru. They are accused of irregularly transferring the retailers funds to other accounts. The funds were allegedly transferred to Tuskys Uganda (Sh279 million), Guthera Villas (Sh400 million), Pop Media Limited (Sh200 million), Kenspore Company Limited (Sh322 million) and Enkarasha Limited (Sh441 million). The firms were listed as Tuskys’ subsidiaries in the exemption application. Also read: Landlords declined orders to evict Nakumatt from premises BUY STAKE Mukuha and Gachwe asked Nairobi chief magistrate Martha Mutuku to give them time to reach an out-of-court deal with Mugweru. Mugweru accused the two of transferring the funds from Tuskys to accounts owned by their own firms. In 2016, the siblings offered to buy Mugweru’s stake for Sh100 million. Mugweru turned down the deal and instead offered to buy shares owned by Gatei, Kago, Gachwe and Mukuha for Sh357.14 million. As neither of the warring sides is willing to sell their shares and exit Tuskys, focus now shifts to whether the siblings will reach a middle ground that will save the 18 year-old retail chain from collapse.  Click here for the latest political news