President Uhuru Kenyatta returned to the country on Monday after a four-day
State Visit to Mozambique, where trade, enhanced bilateral relations and the
blue economy were discussed The President and his host President Filipe Nyusi witnessed the signing of two
broad agreements covering political and economic cooperation, bringing closer
diplomatic ties between the two countries. In those agreements, the two states resolved to broaden
their cooperation areas of mutual interest including trade, the mining sector,
livestock breeding, tourism promotion, agri-business, manufacturing and value
addition, and the blue economy sector. However, one of the
main developments was the announcement by President Uhuru that Mozambique
nationals will no longer require a visa to visit the country, “ and encouraged
them to explore investment opportunities in East Africa’s giant economy”. In November 28,
during his inauguration, Uhuru announced all Africans visiting the country will
receive a visa on arrival with no reciprocity conditions. "From today,
you (EAC citizens) will be treated like Kenyans. Like your Kenyans brothers and
sisters you will only need your ID card," Uhuru said. The interesting
issue here is that in Mozambique’s case, President Nyusi didn’t reciprocate,
neither has any other country since the November 28 announcement, even for
goodwill purposes. Inasmuch as the
President downplayed the reciprocity condition, it is a key principle in
international relations that can’t be wished away. In international relations,
the principle of reciprocity
states that favours, benefits, or penalties that are granted by one state to
the citizens or legal entities of another should be returned in kind. This has
not been the case. Kenyans travelling
to South Africa will tell you how hectic it is to get a visa. You still have to
pay Sh4,900 visa fee. In May 2015, the then Foreign
Affairs CS Amina Mohamed told the Nation that she had secured an
appointment with key South African authorities to discuss the visa issue,
following complaints from Kenyans seeking to travel there. When the then SA President Jacob Zuma visited the
following year in October, things had not changed. Kenya was pushing for
three-year multiple entry visas for ordinary Kenyans and 10-year visas for
businesspeople visiting South Africa. “We would like to
strengthen relations between the two countries. In our view, there is no reason
why both our countries cannot agree on exemption of visas for each other's
citizens. Such an action would go a long way to allowing our people to get to
know one another to mutual benefit," President Uhuru said at a joint-media
briefing. Zuma was non-committal,
other than a visa waiver agreement that would allow Kenyan government
officials to travel to South Africa without visas, but only once the agreement
comes into effect, and a reduction of processing days from seven to five. But we didn’t stop enticing
them. The following year, Kenya granted South Africans additional time to visit
Kenya without visas for up to three months, up from the previous 30 days.
Again, even after President Uhuru visited this January, those restrictions
haven’t really been eased. So, what’s really
the idea with opening up to other nations without reciprocity?