National women’s football team ‘Harambee Starlets’ coach David Ouma is confident of a home win against Uganda’s Crested Cranes when the two sides face off in an African Women Cup of Nations qualifier first leg match at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos tomorrow. The return leg is scheduled for this Sunday at the Star Times Lugogo Stadium in Uganda. Ouma noted they are keen on tactical approach of the game especially working through the wide areas which he said worked against them in the recently friendly match against Zambia. “If we can control the game and take full advantage of all the situations, we have a possibility of winning the match. The friendly tie was timely and we are at a good place now,” said Ouma. Teams captain, Wendy Achieng, said morale in the team is high and they remain positive of a good result. “We have had good preparations ahead of the match. We recently played a friendly match against Zambia and won 3-0 away and that has motivated us. We are looking forward to the match and hopefully, we will record a win at home,” said Achieng, who plays for Spedag in the Women’s Premier League. Cranes coach Faridah Bulega also exuded confidence in her team, warning Starlets that they are not coming to Kenya for Safari. Bulega said: “The technical team has helped the players in all the basics that are vital in putting up a good show in Kenya.” “We have been doing well together with my staff and I hope the players will put to action whatever we have given them. A draw wouldn’t be a bad result.” In addition, Uganda captain Hasifa Nasuna believes their poor record against Kenya is just history and warned that their’s is a new Crested Cranes team with a different ambition. Kenya, who played at last year’s edition of the AWCON finals in Cameroon, have beaten Uganda twice, in a friendly in Kisumu and in the 2016 CECAFA Championships, with both games ending 4-0. “They have beaten us twice but that is in the past. Our ambition is to challenge them and show that we are equally good,” Nasuna said. A team of 20 players and nine official is in the country ahead of the tomorrow’s match. Click here for the latest political news