A group of Kenyans living in London shouted in protest as President Uhuru Kenyatta left Chatham House on Tuesday evening. They waved placards asking the President to respect the rule of law and human rights. Other signs had the words: "Born Kenyan, forever Kenyan' and 'police brutality must stop'. Some of the protesters shouted their demands for justice while others blew whistles as they waved Kenyan flags. Some of the demonstrators carried pictures of activists they said were being abused.  Kenyans living in London wait for President Uhuru Kenyatta to leave Chatham House during a protest to demand justice and respect for the law, April 17, 2018. /COURTESY A section of the people, however, waved placards saying: "Our President Uhuru. We have justice." Uhuru, who was under heavy security, smiled before he was whisked into his car that left almost immediately. The crowd carried on singing and whistling, some of the people saying "Miguna must come home". Miguna Miguna is a lawyer of dual Kenyan and Canadian citizenship, who has been deported twice following his role in the swearing-in of Opposition leader Raila Odinga as the People's President. He declared himself the General of the National Resistance Movement and has had grand plans against Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto whom he calls despots. More on this: Myths, mayhem and Miguna: Explaining legal issues in saga  Kenyans living in London wait for President Uhuru Kenyatta outside Chatham House where he delivered an address on April 17, 2018. /COURTESY  Kenyans living in London wait for President Uhuru Kenyatta outside Chatham House where he delivered an address on April 17, 2018. /COURTESY In his address at Chatham, Uhuru urged world leaders to embrace healthy political competition and foster global democracy while explaining his unity deal with Raila Odinga. He noted nations can only achieve their goals if they move away from confrontational politics and endless rivalry, and prioritise the needs of their people. He said his March 9 truce with the Opposition leader was motivated by the need to end this kind politics and to put the interests of Kenyans first. Uhuru is in London for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting that will end on April 20. More on this: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila Related: Uhuru to deliver State of the Nation address on May 2 Click here for the latest political news