Stocks for Stanbic Holdings Plc, Sasini Limited, CIC insurance, and Housing Finance are unappealing to investors hence their removal from NSE 20 and 25, an industry expert has said. Speaking to the Star on phone, NIC Securities Business Development Manager Samuel Gichohi said that a consistent decline in the price of their market share, weak returns in their financial performance are some of the key reasons for their relegation and its a blow to their market outlook. “Companies listed in the index attract the attention of investors and the entire national market therefore those whose value go below the minimum capitalisation are bound to be removed,” Gichohi said. However he said that their removal does not underline their foundational performance but it is a reflection of the market performance. A statement from the Nairobi Securities Exchange says that review, which took effect on Tuesday this week was approved by the exchange board and in line with global practices. In a new reshuffle by the exchange, Stanbic Holdings, Sasini Limited, CIC insurance were replaced by Kenya Reinsurance Corporation Limited, NIC Group Plc and Nairobi Securities Exchange. Under the top 25, commonly known as the NSE 25 share index, Housing Finance Group was replaced by the Nairobi Securities Exchange. NSE said that companies listed under the NSE20 were selected based on their market capitalisation, shares traded, deals/liquidity and turnover during the period under review all weighed in the ration of 4:3:2:1 respectively. Further, they ought to have at least 20 per cent of their shares quoted at the NSE, a minimum market capitalization of Sh20 million, and be a blue-chip firm with superior profitability and dividend recorded. On the other hand, the exchanged said that firms listed under the NSE 25 needed to have their primary listing on the NSE, have at least 20 per cent of their shares quoted on the NSE, be continuously quoted for at least one year, have a minimum market capitalisation of Sh1 billion, and be a “blue chip” superior profitability firm with a dividend firm. Of these reasons, Gichohi said that either one or two was a cause for removal of the four companies from the top 20 and 25 best performing companies in the bourse. The index represent the performance of Kenyan companies listed on NSE hence providing investors with a comprehensive and complementary benchmark to measure the performance of the Kenyan securities market.