Embattled Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has taken his battle to the Supreme Court in a second attempt to overturn a decision nullifying his election. Two courts said he lacked academic qualifications to run.On Friday soon after the Court of Appeal upheld the decision of Justice Alfred Mabeya invalidating his win, the Jubilee politician dashed to the Supreme Court, saying he was aggrieved by the entire verdict. In their decision, judges Philip Waki, Milton Makhandia and Patrick Kiage held that Mabeya (High Court judge) did not err in his finding. They further agreed that the former ambassador was not qualified to contest in the election. Read; Wajir Governor Abdi appeals High court decision nullifying his win In dismissing his appeal, the judges agreed that Abdi did not have a degree from Kampala University as he had claimed and neither did he have a Master’s degree in Diplomacy from the same Institution. Their judgment was read by Justice M’inoti Kathurima.The judges also said the politician failed to prove he actually obtained the two degrees — and therefore failed to satisfy the qualifications criteria set in section 22 ( 2 ) of the Elections Act. “There can really be no difficulty, therefore in arriving at the conclusion that the judge was justified on the evidence and the law, to hold and find that the appellant was not legally cleared to vie for the position of governor,” they said.It was also the bench’s conclusion that the embattled politician wasted the only opportunity he had to rebut the allegations made against him when he declined to appear before the court to be cross-examined. He instead opted to file an affidavit. Details: Lack of degree costs Abdi governor’s seatThey said only he could have explained under oath  the critical details relating to his academic qualifications, but he chose not to. “A person who is not qualified for a particular seat cannot hold onto his false victory by pointing to the margin of his votes vis-a-vis his competitors. He ought not to have run in the first place and his alleged victory is a subversion of electoral process,” the court held.They also rejected Abdi’s argument that Justice Mabeya had no jurisdiction to inquire into his degree and his action amounted to investigating fraud and forgery against him. They said the judge had the powers to determine the issues. In a notice to appeal before the Supreme Court, Abdi said he was dissatisfied with the entire judgment. He has seven days to file his memorandum of appeal.  Click here for the latest political news