“A true statesman does not do anything by himself, he must wait and listen to hear the footsteps of God sounding through events; then he must leap and touch the hem of his garment”— Otto Von Bismark. This is precisely what Uhuru and Raila have done. As the country was hurtling into the abyss of division and darkness, the famous handshake brought immediate relief countrywide. The 'cessation of hostilities' and the assertion by the scions of Kenya's Founding Fathers that the vicious cycle of hate and division MUST end is what Kenyans had been yearning for. This alone is obviously not the panacea for negative ethnicity and we all look forward to learning the activities and steps to be proposed by Paul Mwangi and Martin Kimani. This may include a re-look at governance structures, which will create a perceivable sense of inclusion for Kenyans of different colour and creed. The country's collective sigh of relief will require us to align our hopes with our actions in tangible and practical recommendations — before the goodwill runs out. I personally don’t think that an appointment for Raila is necessary, as there’s more work to be done in Kenya than elsewhere. Still, it would be welcomed by a good number of people. Raila Odinga’s energy and focus would serve Kenyans better at home, working with other leaders to build lasting cohesion and spearhead actual reconciliation. A political appointment will only amplify the voices of naysayers and skeptics of the handshake who all along asserted this was a personal deal for Raila. Why anyone would want to squander such a historic opportunity to unite the country — for personal position and title — is beyond me. Raila doesn’t need a position for personal comfort or legitimacy. He is already Raila Odinga. He needs to be present and rally his supporters towards a more united country where everyone has a fair chance. He should be facilitated and equipped to do this. However, addressing systemic and constitutional issues that have undermined cohesion can only be effective if there is no talk of 2022. Which is why a political appointment — which can be misconstrued as an endorsement for future leadership — is ill advised. Every move and activity will be regarded as posturing for 2022 and this will alienate many of us who are clear about our 2022 preferences. The writer is the senator for Nairobi