Isn’t the studied silence of fiery Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho curious, bearing in mind the former Kisauni MP had been hitting headlines previously? The vocal governor has assumed a rather unusual private life, forcing some Mombasa residents and opposition enthusiasts to launch an online appeal for his return. Social media was this week abuzz with NASA supporters questioning Joho’s absence from the political scene, given that he has previously played a key role in NASA activities. Is the governor plotting a new political direction outside NASA or is it just a strategy to build new alliances before formally taking over ODM? Well, only time will tell. ***** Why has Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet become readily available of late for interrogation by parliamentary committees? The police chief, who is often rigid when invited by MPs, this week shuttled between two committees of Parliament in two consecutive days with a lot of ease. Earlier, the committees had complained about the top cop’s unavailability and even threatened to issue sanctions against his office. Is this a new dawn for Boinnet or is it a public stunt, which is likely to fizzle out in the coming days? Why couldn’t he also make a routine of honouring court summonses? ***** A chairman of an influential parliamentary committee is said to be unhappy with the Senate’s sessions hearing a petition seeking authority to build a factory in Nyangweta Forest, Kisii county. The MP has thrown tantrums at the Senate Committee on Environment, warning that the National Assembly must also make its recommendations on the project, in utter demonstration of sheer ignorance of the law, which gives the Senate exclusive powers to alter forest boundaries. The vocal MP is said to have already mobilised colleagues to prepare themselves for their share before the project is given a clean bill of health. ***** A governor from Northeastern has gone into hibernation and residents are asking if he is in any way planning to return to the county soon. The governor, who stays at a luxurious hotel in Nairobi, has not set foot in his county for the last three months amid claims he has developed a peculiar attraction to beauties headlining popular clubs in Nairobi. The governor is said to be running the county from diaspora, with one of his executives wielding immense powers that could scuttle smooth running of county affairs. Recently, he hired a chartered plane to attend the funeral of his former close ally, but jetted back to Nairobi immediately after the funeral.