More than 100 young women and girls from Tiaty in Baringo have been trained on life skills to end FGM and early marriages. The three-day training that ended on Saturday is aimed at dissuading girls from undergoing Female Genital Mutilation. Most teenagers promised to ignore FGM rituals and go to school. "The young mothers and girls were trained on the effects of FGM and small business entrepreneurship. We want to change their lives for a better future," Tangulbei Women Network chairperson Mary Kuket told the Star on Sunday. Read: 2,000 Pokot girls undergoing FGM in Baringo despite ban The training came at a time when more than 2,000 girls in Tiaty were expected to undergo FGM during the Easter holiday. Seven girls were rescued from the cut and were taken to the Tangulbei Boarding Primary School. “They said their parents and brothers threatened to kill them if they resisted joining their agemates who were undergoing the cut in the bush,” head teacher Musa Terter said. The girls aged between nine and 12 years fled their Karoiwo, Kabalabata and Kakaryakales villages last week. The head teacher said owing to their levels of illiteracy he was forced to place the girls, despite their ages, in class one and two respectively. After the cut, the parents in the local pokot community will marry off their girls immediately in-exchange of wealth in terms of livestock. Related: Two Baringo FGM survivors appeal for fees to join form one Tiaty East deputy county commissioner Reuben Ratemo condemned the incidents. He promised to arrest perpetrators. FGM is still very common among the Pokot. Kuket said there was a backlog of uncut girls owing to prolonged drought last year. "Many are yet to be circumcised for them to get married to the young men,” Kuket said. Kuket asked the government to put up tougher measures to end FGM. The femal cut also happens as residents in Arabal, Baringo South complain after suspected armed pokot bandits attacked stealing 100 cows last suncday. The cattle is belved to be used as dowry by the young pokot men who would want to marry the gils once they get out of the circumcision ceremony. Reliable source further hinted that the traditional women circumcisers were paid at least two goats or sh3, 000 per girl adding that the rite of passage is normally observed in August and December. “But it came early this years due to onset of rains and the population of uncircumcised girls is also on the rise” the source revealed However, the source said a man is forced to part with 50 goats, 30 cows and 10 camels to marry the circumcised young girls as his wife. Reached for comment, Baringo County Commissioner Henry Wafula said as government, they will not accept such retrogressive cultures to continue. “We are going to lay traps to arrest anybody seen procuring girls into fgm and then we will make sure they face the full force of the law” said Wafula. He therefore ordered the chiefs and the sub-county commissioners to keep an eye, arrest and produce the culprits to court. Wafula also lauded the teachers for helping to keep the children in school despite the challenges of drought and hunger saying the government shall soon release relief foodstuff and the long waited school feeding programme. Details: FGM still rampant in Baringo  Click here for the latest political news