Timothy Kimani, alias Njugush, and Celestine Ndinda are the new parents in town, with a baby boy. It is no doubt that Njugush is enjoying the new title of being a dad after posting a photo of himself and his one-month-old son. Speaking to Word Is, Njugush said he is not a run-of-the-mill dad. He is different. The comedian spoke about what kind of gift he will get his son when he turns a year old. He said, "My first birthday gift to my child will be discipline. I might buy him so many expensive things or even promise to do big things for my child, but I never know if in one year's time I will be having money. I remember there is one thing my parents gave us and we are so grateful to them, and that is discipline, and I also think that is what I want to also give to my child. This is because nowadays, the way tunabring up watoi is so bad. I do not want to pamper my child so much that hajui naeza ongea na asikie. I know in one year's time, anaeza kua hajui mob, but kama ni kuraise voice, ajue niko, coz vitu najua ni mob na tutanunua, but discipline kwanza." Njugush is one of the esteemed mentors in the ongoing Blaze, Be Your Own Boss TV series. He explained how he got to be part of the show. "I got a call around May last year, ikasemekana kuna kitu inaitwa BYOB, Be Your Own Boss. By then I was a fan of the then BYOB TV show, so they called me about it. I was so excited mpaka nikasahau bei tulikua tunanegotiate baadae. I was like yes, I want to be here. So I got a call and I was asked if I was interested, I said why not, tuchape hii kitu, and again it was all about the aspect of young guys, and most of the times young guys are given the wrong advice. "Most guys who are successful tell you to work hard without telling you how they succeeded. You know, there is more to work hard than just kuamka asubuhi. There is more of being smart and all that. For young guys, if we started by being advised on how to do things, then we would be far, but ilikua trial and error. So when I got that call I got so interested because it was dealing with young guys. And what is the most interesting thing he has heard so far? "It came from a guys who we met it in Meru. He tried to bring out a simple idea in a very complex way, just to show us how people want use the most complicated way to pass out the simple thing. When you simplify yourself to them, they will understand and embrace you. My advice to the youth is to grab every available opportunity that shows up and avoid short-cuts. Blaze is a very good opportunity and you are taken through different steps. It is not limiting and it is also free."