Northeastern Kenya, which has been marginalised for decades, continues to face peace and security challenges that hinder economic development. The key challenges are: Violent extremism (terrorism and radicalisation); conflicts over natural resources (extractives and land); and political conflicts (elections, ethnicity and devolution). Attacks by local cells of the Somalia-based al Shabaab terrorist group in Wajir, Mandera and Garissa counties have continued unabated. The killing of non-local teachers by suspected al Shabaab militants in Wajir in February was part of an unending pattern that has triggered an exodus of teachers. This has left the region in dire need of teachers. Teachers’ unions Knut and Kuppet have demanded the government withdraws all tutors from terror-prone counties. The Teachers’ Service Commission has complied and transferred all non-local teachers. Many schools in Wajir are closed for lack of teachers. It has been noted that the local Somalis do not take the teaching profession seriously which largely contributes to the shortage. Local leaders and the Education ministry have devised a strategy of ensuring residents take up teaching courses to fill the vacancies. The strategy includes lowering the grade for entry level to teaching colleges for P1 teachers to grade D-plus. The question in most people’s minds is, is it appropriate to lower the grade and will this help in bridging the gap? In the 1980s and 1990s Northeastern schools produced minimum number of students joining national schools as well as public universities. This trend has tremendously improved over the years. The education system has evolved with many private and public primary and secondary schools. Consequently, more students are joining public and private universities. And these are students have achieved the minimum grade for university entry. The number of unemployed youths is also on the increase, despite them having college degrees. The minimum requirement for a P1 teacher is grade C. Lowering the entry grade for Northeastern is demeaning to our children as they will be taught by people who are not adequately qualified. The students will find it hard to compete with their counterparts from other parts of the country. While we welcome affirmative action, lowering the grade is not the answer. The answer lies in changing attitudes towards the teaching profession. The Somali community has produced some of the best teachers who are the pioneers of education in the region. They include the likes of Maalim Idris, Ibrahim Hussein and Said Warsame. The problem is that the current generation feels that teaching is not a lucrative profession. We need mentorship programmes for the youth to encourage them to join the profession. We also need both the national and county governments to fund students from poor backgrounds to these colleges and teachers who want to upgrade themselves. The county governments should stop poaching our already trained teachers into county jobs and instead give them incentives to stay in their teaching jobs. Other incentives include risk and hardship allowances for the teachers willing to work in the region. There is also need to increase and upgrade the number of boarding schools to cater for the nomadic lifestyle of the pastoral communities in order to increase the number of school going children, especially the girlchild. These interventions will obviously need a lot more time and resources but in the long run, they are much better for the children of Northeastern than the short-term solutions suggested. Teaching is a noble profession. Thus the society needs to respect teachers. If from kindergarten through secondary, our children are taught by less qualified teachers, what kind of foundation will they have in this era of technology? Do we want the cycle of mediocrity to be repeated year in, year out? Gender consultant and director, Women Center for Peace and Development i-fatuma.shukri@gmail,com