Teachers in a Nandi county Sacco are seeking to be enjoined in a succession case over the property of the late former powerful Nominated MP Mark Too. The Sacco claims it bought 202 acres and members want to be recognised as part of the beneficiaries of Too’s vast estate. Thirty eight teachers, on behalf of other members, filed citation cause 8 of 2018 dated March 31 at the High Court in Eldoret, saying Too’s heirs should recognise them as beneficiaries because he died before they took over the land. Linus Chemwor has sworn an affidavit on behalf of others. A row has been brewing since former President Daniel arap Moi’s ally died after a sudden illness in December 2016 at his home in Eldoret. He was buried on January 9 last year. The teachers are claiming parcel No Pioneer/Ngeria Block 1 (EATEC) 2917 measuring 80.94 hectares (an equivalent of 202 acres). The case was filed through Limo Rotich and Company Advocates against Too’s Widows Mary Jepkemboi and Sophie Jelimo. Others are the children Moses, Elizabeth, Moses, Jenny, Daniel, Sandra, Kevin and Sharon. In a case filed in Nairobi, Justice Abida Ali has directed Too’s widows to apply for permission to manage his estate within 15 days. However, Chepkoech, Too’s daughter, filed an application in court seeking to block the widows along with Fanikiwa Limited and the Cimberia East Africa Limited from dealing in Too’s estate until an administrator is appointed. She wants Cimberia stopped from releasing Sh100 million belonging to the politician. The High Court in Eldoret has ordered those sued by the teachers to enter an appearance at the registry within 15 days. “This is to direct you do, within 15 days after service, cause an appearance to be entered for you either in Principal Registry or in the Eldoret Registry and accept or refuse letters of administration of all the estate and show cause why the same should not be granted to the public trustee for and on behalf of the applicants,” reads part of the application by the teachers. In the court papers, the teachers allege the land was unlawfully transferred and registered in the name of the late politician through a Gazette notice number 1295 of February 28, 2014, and the title deed unlawfully backdated to June 15, 2005. “We have filed the case as individuals because the management of the Sacco seems not interested,” Chemwor said. A search done by the Sacco in 2012 has been presented as part of evidence that the teachers owned the land before it was illegally taken over. The search indicates that a land title dating July 23, 2003, had been issued to the Sacco the parcel was was transferred. The green card attached by the applicants, however, shows the land was under the proprietorship of Lonrho Agribusiness East Africa Limited as at January 23, 2001, before it was transferred to Too on June 15, 2005. The Registrar of the High Court in Eldoret Mildred Munyekenye directed that Too’s family be served with the application.