Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okuome and Wang’chieng ward MCA Peter Kaula have raised concerns over harvesting of sand in the constituency. They said extreme harvesting of the commodity has enhanced land degradation and health risks in the areas where the activity is done. Okuome noted that most roads in the area have been destroyed and become impassable due to removal of the sand. He said most affected areas are in Wang’ chieng ward, giving example with the road leading to Chuoye beach. Other villages affected include Kobala, Kobuya and Osodo. "Most roads in Karachuonyo are impassable because they are destroyed with the ongoing sand harvesting,” Okuome said. The MP said more than 30 per cent of farm land in Kobala area has become agriculturally unproductive due top fertile soil have been washed away. He expressed concerns that residents are likely to contract waterborne diseases due to poor drainage system in the area. "It’s true that crop production has declined in this area because the sand harvesting has interfered with the fertility of the soil,” Okuome said. Speaking on Sunday they toured areas, the MP noted that excessive sand harvesting contributes to flooding. "Residents are at risk of contracting bilharzias and malaria since holes have become areas where mosquitoes breed,” he said. The legislator said sand harvesters have scooped buffer soil along the roads which makes them impassable. "The roads affected are unstable and can easily cause accident. Ambulances and fire engines can pass through during emergencies,” the MP said. According to Kaula the extreme sand harvesting in the area has interfered with electricity supply. "Kenya Power officials have complained that most of their electricity poles have been affected hence they cut off power supply,” Kaula said. County National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) Director John Maniafu said excessive sand harvesting has left gullies which are dangerous to both people and animals. Maniafu said a lot of sand harvesting is promoting siltation in Lake Victoria. "Soils become loose hence washed away to the lake when flooded,” Maniafu said. The director said other areas affected by sand are Sindo in Suba South and other beaches in Rusinga Island in Suba North Sub Counties.