President Uhuru Kenyatta has told off critics of his handshake with ODM's Raila Odinga saying he will not allow 'those who thrive in commotion' to defeat the unity process. The president said he is aware there are factions, both from his and Raila's camp, that are not comfortable with the developments which followed the March 9 unity pact. The head of state said they decided to work together so that the country thrives in peace and prosperity after the divisive 2017 presidential election. The president led hundreds of mourners in paying their final respect to the late Kenneth Matiba. The ceremony did not end without political exchanges over the 2022 vote. There is talk that the famed handshake is about the next general election, claims that both Raila and Uhuru denied at Ihura Stadium on Thursday. "I wonder why people raise issues about 2022 when I meet with Raila. As Raila has said there will be elections in 2022, 2027 and up to 3000." More on this: 'Handshake not about 2022': Raila narrates how Uhuru reached out He added: "I will continue walking with Raila. Those willing to go with us should join us and seek any clarification they want from us and not plot behind our backs." This was an apparent message to political undertones in DP William Ruto's camp and issues emerging from Raila's proposal for a three-tier government. "Let us leave these politics aside and focus on what matters most for Kenyans. With that we will have helped them realise their dream," he said. Uhuru added: "Leadership does not come easy and is not an agreement on paper but having the vision towards a better Kenya." The president urged the political class to embrace the fact that the unity of the people will allow the nation to focus on matters, health, infrastructure, and security. "I, therefore, ask our politicians to stop their petty backstabbing and blackmail. When Kenya burns, even your place will burn. Fire does not miss anyone." "Let us emulate our fathers and dedicate ourselves to sorting out all the issues we have purposed to," he added. Uhuru further said the likes of Matiba did not sacrifice their lives, time and energy so that Kenya can be a worse off place but to make it better for all. Related: Apologise to Matiba's family, punish his tormentors, Orengo tells state On perceived divisions over elections, he said the 2017 vote tussles are over, hence Kenyans must look for a way of accommodating everybody so that they move together. "I appreciate my brother Raila for agreeing to work together with me because Kenya is bigger than an individual," he said. On tribalism, the president urged Kenyans to consider that it was God’s plan that they were born in the areas different communities reside in. "I neither chose my birthplace nor did I make an application. I didn’t apply to be born in Gatundu or where I am. So, don’t hate someone because of God’s plan." "We can’t play our politics on the basis of where someone was born," he told the mourners. Uhuru also announced that together with Raila, they will form a committee to honour all Kenya's heroes and heroines. "We will see how we can honour their memory so that our children can learn from that history." For his part, Ruto said he is elated that the country has enjoyed tremendous peace since Uhuru and Raila agreed to bury their political differences. He eulogised Matiba as a hero of multi-party democracy whose legacy must be emulated. "Matiba was a generous nationalist and caring family man. All political leaders must also be willing to sacrifice their comfort zones and offer services to all Kenyans." He said Uhuru and Raila's courage to reach out to one another "amid efforts to build bridges of friendship and brotherhood that will kick start unity among Kenyans must be commended." Various speakers at the funeral service backed the unity deal and encouraged that all Kenyans move together in the new dispensation. Matiba will be cremated at Lang'ata cemetery on Friday. Also read: 'My untold friendship with Matiba': Raila gives moving tribute Related: Raila stirs 2022 succession after meeting Kibaki Click here for the latest political news    