The EACC is investigating high profile cases that will lead to the conviction of prominent personalities, CEO Halakhe Waqo has said. Waqo said this on Monday while defending the performance of the anti-corruption agency. The CEO noted, however, that the commission cannot win the war on corruption on its won. "The commission is doing all it can but the desire to get rich overnight, by individuals in both the public and private sectors, is complicating the fight." He spoke on at the Commission's South Nyanza regional office during a visit. Waqo noted that 10 people have been convicted for graft in the last 10 months and that "more will face the sword". Regarding the National Youth Service saga, he said 27 individuals were arrested and are currently facing graft charges. The EACC boss was with officials including commissioner Dabar Maalim. But on March 9, Twenty three people charged with economic crimes in the Sh47 million NYS scandal were acquitted. Chief Magistrate Kenneth Bidali said the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Days later, the former Acting Director General of Operations in the NYS was acquitted of charges of abuse of office and corruption. Bidali, who read the judgement on behalf of Magistrate Felix Kombo, said he was satisfied that the accused acted in good faith at all times. Read: Former NYS Director acquitted over corruption charges In an interview with Reuters in 2015, Waqo noted the need for big fish convictions and for the judiciary to work harder to deliver convictions. He reported at the time that the agency had stepped up its investigations into alleged looting of public funds and has put two ministers in court. At that time, BIdali said the courts were seeking to fast-track graft cases and that he was unaware of any in which an accused person was acquitted despite there being "overwhelming evidence" against him or her. John Githongo, who quit as Kenya's anti-corruption tsar in 2005 and remains a prominent whistleblower, dismissed the bickering between the EACC and the judiciary as the "same old, same old". Read more: Kenya needs to see a 'big fish' convicted of corruption - EACC boss Click here for the latest political news