Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will lead a delegation to meet retired President Daniel Moi at the latter’s Kabarak home this week. Sources said the meeting was rescheduled from last Friday “because Mzee’s diary could not allow it.” “Kalonzo’s formal request was accepted. The meeting can take place anytime this week,” the source told the Star yesterday. Kalonzo’s meeting comes barely two weeks after NASA leader Raila Odinga visited the former Head of State. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu will be part of Kalonzo’s delegation. The Star did not get comment from Moi’s press secretary Lee Njiru and Kalonzo as neither picked their calls or responded to text messages. On April 14, upon arrival from Azerbaijan, Kalonzo told reporters that he would also visit Moi “soon”. He had been in Azerbaijan on an election observer mission. "I also want to go and see Mzee Moi. We must open up the space where we respect our elders and can go and even seek their opinions,” Kalonzo said.  LONG HISTORY The meeting between Raila and Moi has been largely seen as part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 2022 succession plans. But the agenda of the Kalonzo visit remains unclear. It is believed the former Vice President will inquire after Moi’s health following his recent treatment in Israel. Kalonzo and Moi have a long history. The former Mwingi North MP served as Minister for Foreign Affairs between 1993 and 1998 under Moi’s regime. He also held the position in President Kabaki’s administration between 2003 and 2004, before he was moved to the Environment ministry. Born in 1953, Kalonzo joined active politics in 1983, when he unsuccessfully run for Kitui North MP. He won the seat in 1985 during a by-election. In 1986, Moi appointed him Assistant Minister for Public Works, Housing and Physical Planning. He served until 1988. Kalonzo became Kanu organising secretary and deputy speaker of the National Assembly after recapturing his seat in the 1988 election. Kalonzo and Moi fell out in 2002, after the former President chose Uhuru Kenyatta as his successor over a host of Kanu bigwigs who included Kalonzo. “Kalonzo Musyoka was next, and there lay our biggest shock. Kalonzo had been one of Moi’s staunchest loyalists but on this day, he was in a fighting mood! He bravely faced the President and said, “Mzee, you should keep yourself out of succession politics. Leave us alone to direct the show,” former Vice President Moody Awori wrote in his autobiography, Riding on a Tiger.