When Narok businessman Muneer Ishmael and his wife were arrested for having the largest cache of weapons a civilian has ever been caught with, little did they know their trial would drag on for almost 10 years now. Their arrest on December 8, 2009, was dramatic, as police recovered about 100,000 bullets, believed to be from the Kenya Army bullet factory in Eldoret and the Ministry of Defence (British Army). Also seized were pistols, four rifles, including a sniper rifle, pangas, military backpacks, shooting range ear plugs, military sleeping bags, foldable camping beds, solar batteries, heavy duty vehicle batteries, 70 water containers, tyres, solar camp showers, boots and knives. Despite the State Law Office taking up the matter in 2009, nothing much has happened in the trial, following numerous applications both before the magistrate's court and the High Court, and a baffling disappearance of the court file. In one of the applications, Muneer told the court he feels he is not going to get a fair trial because the police violated his rights when they ransacked his premises, since they did not have a search warrant as required by law. A top official in the office of the DPP had demanded an explanation from the criminal court registry and threatened unspecified action, after it emerged that details of the file and its movements could not be traced. However, after some days the file, was miraculously placed for hearing before court, but it did not go on because the police file and the investigating officer were absent. During the arrests of Muneer and his wife, the then police commissioner Mathew Iteere said the consignment was the largest cache of arms seized from a civilian in Kenya’s history. Iteere, who led the opening of the consignment and the counting of the arms at the CID headquarters, said some of the ammunition came from the Czech Republic, while others were indicated as originating from the Eldoret arms factory. Muneer and his wife Nahid Tabasum were flown to Nairobi under heavy police escort, where they and three others were charged with having various government weapons and ammunition. The shocking seizure was so large that the National Security Intelligence Service was called in to assist in investigations. They were then charged together with AP chief armourer Joseph Maritim with having 68,689 bullets in Narok town. The couple faced three additional counts of storing stolen military attire and dozens of assorted military ware in Nairobi and Narok. Two other people, John Wandeto and Dominic Mufumu, were separately charged with storing military gear. TWISTS AND TURNS When it first came to court, the high-profile case was handled by senior prosecutor Onesmus Toweet but was later assigned to senior state counsel Vincent Wahoro. The two have since left the Milimani law courts. The accused spent 17 days in police cells and prison remand before then Nairobi chief magistrate Gilbert Mutembei released them on Sh1 million bail each. Days after their release, the High Court suspended their bail and ordered they be re-arrested and detained. They appealed against the decision and the then High Court Judge Mohammed Warsame enhanced Muneer’s bail, saying “he appears to be the central player in this case”. The judge said beside the Sh1 million bail ordered by the court, Muneer was to furnish the court with two sureties of Sh3 million each. His wife was released on Sh1 million bail, while Maritim was ordered to pay Sh500,000. Wandeto and Ambisai paid Sh200,000. Muneer remained in custody for a while after a further 30,528 arms cache was seized a month later at Embakasi. However, he was later released as well. This was after the prosecution on several occasions made various applications seeking to keep the suspects in remand, saying they were a threat to national security. But the application was dismissed by Warsame, then a judge of the High Court, saying mere suspicion, however strong, must be backed by cogent evidence. “I therefore find neither a single fact nor a reason that can explain why the state should insist on the detention of the respondents on flimsy and flippant contention of endangering national security. It is my decision that there is a serious problem with the claim that one is justified in undermining civil liberties to prevent the release of an individual simply because they were allegedly found with weapons likely to compromise our national security.” In the meantime, the truth behind the historic discovery of the huge cache that shocked the country in 2009 remains unresolved.