Kenyan Muslims will carry on with this year’s annual religious obligation, Hajj, despite a Sh23 million debt, the Saudi ambassador has said. The debt is owed to Saudi Arabia’s private travel agencies. The money paid by Hujaj (pilgrims) to facilitate transport and accommodation accrued after Supkem’s Kenya Hajj Mission failed to remit the cash to their Saudi counterparts last year. The debt put Kenya’s participation this year in jeopardy. "There is nothing to hinder Kenyan pilgrims from performing their pilgrimage. If there are demands it is from Hajj agencies, not the Saudi authorities," Saudi Ambassador Mohamed Abdulghani Khayat said. He said embassies across the globe do not charge visa fees from pilgrims and the Saudi government does not impose any fees for issuance of Hajj visas. Read: Muslims at risk of missing Hajj pilgrimage over Sh23m debt The monies are spent on booking arrangements, agency fees, documentation fees, airline tickets, hotels, food and transport from Kenya until the pilgrims' return. There are complainants of sky-rocketing costs of performing Hajj which isn't commensurate services received. This has been blamed on proliferation of Hajj agencies in Kenya. In 2015, expenses for a complete trip was below Sh200,000 today over Sh400,000 is required. On this year's quota for Kenya, Khayat said his government has permitted 6,000 pilgrims from Kenya. Last year, 4,000 Kenyans joined the rest of the world in making the annual ritual. Supkem immediate former organising secretary Hussein Shariff Omar, who doubles up as vice chairman Kenya Hajj Mission, has since acknowledged the debt. "There is a debt but not that huge," he said, absolving himself from blame and conflict of interest. "There some agents whom we had to guarantee so that the Kenyan delegation doesn't run in trouble for failing to pay." "This was occasioned by some agents whose clients had failed to pay the whole amount citing financial constraints due to elections," he added. He said they are engaging the respective agents so as they can pay up the debt. "The matter is being handled and it will be sorted out," Omar added denying claims that he might have pocketed the money from agents instead of remitting it as required. Click here for the latest political news 