Mombasa will set up a Sh6.5 billion recycling plant to clear garbage in the coastal town, according to the draft budget for the 2018-19 financial year. Governor Hassan Joho’s administration has not provided a specific site. The governor has put a five-year time frame for the project. Neither Joho nor environment executive Godfrey Nato was available to divulge when the ground-breaking will be done. But it is understood that he will seek the national government’s approval for a loan to fund the venture. The county has set a Sh13 billion budget for the next financial year. National government share will be Sh8 billion and conditional grants Sh927 million. County funds have been projected at Sh3.9 billion. Personnel has been allocated Sh5 billion, operations, repair and maintenance Sh3.9 billion and capital expenditure Sh4.1 billion. Plans to set up a recycling plant in Mombasa have flopped several times. A Sh2 billion private public partnership waste management project conceived in 2012 died. The partnership would have seen Bamburi Cement company construct a modern recycling factory. Water executive Fatma Awale said during her vetting that the plan hit a dead end because the proposed site was found to be private land. An Italian company, Jacorossi Imprese, in 2009 was about to be awarded a tender to set up a recycling plant. But the plans were scuttled when the French government, via the French Development Agency, promised a Sh1.1 billion grant for a similar venture. In a tussle that sucked in Tourism CS Najib Balala and Opposition leader Raila Odinga, the then municipal council was ordered to stop any dealings with the Italian company. The issue has never been addressed and residents continue to bear the brunt of poor waste management. Joho last week ordered the closure of Kibarani dump site and said Mwakirunge dumping site would be used instead. However, the area is a flight path and the decision may be reversed. The governor’s critics have made political capital by exposing his ineptitude to keep the city clean. The debate raged during the last general election. Joho has admitted cleaning Mombasa has been a mountainous task. He confessed to being overwhelmed and pleaded with residents to help him. Nothing much has been achieved as garbage is still strewn all over the county. Outbreaks of diseases like chikungunya and cholera have been blamed on the heaps of waste in residential areas. Streets are cluttered and there are bad odours and clogged sewers.