Mary Ikeny tries to look for food for her five-year-old son Jeremiah, who clings to her as hunger pangs strike. Ikeny is only 23 years old, but she could easily pass for an older age due to her physique. She carries Jeremiah, who looks emaciated, next to her grass-thatched house in Turkana county as she waves off the flies hovering around her. Her other child runs around the small compound as thunder heralds heavy rains from a distance. Jeremiah looks younger than his age. He is one case of the estimated 2.1 million children who suffer from malnutrition in Kenya. This means that one out of every five children under five has stunted growth, a condition that primarily affects people who suffer from malnutrition during childhood. People whose growth is stunted typically have short heights and low body masses for their age group. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics wellbeing report 2015-16 shows that at least 29.9 per cent of children — translating to 2.1 million children —aged below five across the country have moderately stunted growth. Also, 26 per cent of of children are stunted, eight per cent severely. Analysis of this indicator by age group shows that stunting is highest in children aged 18-23 months and 24-35 months. “This is a serious national development concern, as these children will never reach their full physical and mental potential. Wasting indicates a recent and severe process of weight loss, which is often associated with acute starvation,” the report read. But struggling with malnourished children is not the only plight Ikeny is fighting. “I had five children but three died. There is not enough food to eat here. This led to their deaths,” she tells the Star, adding that the kind of food she has in her home cannot help a child grow as expected. “The father of this child stays on the other side of the river, having married another woman. I stay here with my two children. These children cannot eat maize or its flour. They only eat rice and chapati,” she says. “This is very light food that cannot help them grow. The kinds of food that they need to eat are not here in rural areas.” HIGH NEWBORN MORTALITY Ikeny is just one of the parents who have lost their children to malnutrition. Regional disparities in nutrition indicators in Kenya are significant, with Northeastern having the highest proportion of children exhibiting severe wasting (eight per cent). Eastern has the highest level of stunted growth at 44 per cent. Milton Mbaja, nutrition therapist at Kayole II Subcounty hospital, said poor feeding can lead to stunted growth. “This is low height for age due to chronic food shortage and osteoporosis (low bone density),” he said. The children can also have impaired immunity, as food is the main source of nutrients that boosts the immune system. “This puts the child at risk of infections, with poor brain development, cognitive performance and mood disorders not left out,” he said. He said there is also a high risk of infant and maternal mortality due to diminished immunity. Effects of stunting last a lifetime, leading to impaired brain development, lower IQ, weakened immune systems and greater risk of diseases later in life. Children who were stunted frequently have lower productivity and earn up to 20 per cent lower than average wages as adults. Adults who were malnourished as children earn at least 20 per cent less on average than those who were not. And hard-hit countries such as Kenya lose two to three per cent of their GDP as a result of iron, iodine and zinc deficiencies, according to statistics by Gain Health, a global nutritional health data bank. A significant number of children in the country lack proper nutrition, leading to stunted growth, being underweight and overall poor development into teenage and adulthood. Stunted growth or being overweight over insufficient nutrients for optimal physical and mental development is mostly attributed to poverty, a phenomenon that could deprive the country of its intellectual capital in the future if not addressed. A Unicef report released in February ranked Kenya as the third-highest country with newborn mortality rate in East Africa. The report, released on February 20, put Kenya at 22.6 deaths per 1,000 births, after South Sudan ( 37.9 ) and Burundi ( 24.2 ). The report notes that one in five babies is born too small for its gestational age or has a birth weight lower than recommended. This form of malnutrition is linked to more than 20 per cent of newborn deaths in these countries, the report says. According to the 2014-15 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey released in March 2018, 26 per cent of children under five are stunted, four per cent are wasted, and 11 per cent are underweight. The report further notes that the proportion of neonatal to infant deaths ranges from 59 per cent in the period zero to four years to 46 per cent during the period 15-19 years. This pattern conforms to the expectation that, as mortality levels decline, a larger proportion of infant deaths will take place during the early neonatal period. The 2008-09 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey shows that families in rural areas are the worst hit, with 32.4 per cent of children experiencing stunted growth compared to those in urban areas, which recorded 24.5 per cent cases. Its prevalence among girls is lower than that for boys. Stunting was more pronounced in the 24-35 months age category, with 37 per cent of the children being moderately stunted. The survey results indicate that 32.8 per cent of male children are moderately stunted, 12.5 per cent of them severely. It noted that more than 80 per cent of newborn deaths are due to prematurity, complications during birth or infections such as pneumonia and sepsis. WHY NUTRITION IS IMPORTANT Turkana nutrition officer Akutan Nelson said they are taking emergency response to people who are far away from facility centres in regards to the nutrition crisis. Akutan said children who have the mark below 11.5cm are severely malnourished and are admitted as outpatient under therapeutic programme and given plumpy nuts — peanut-based paste in a plastic wrapper for treatment of severe acute malnutrition — food supplements to help boost their energy. “The outreach team are also carrying out immunisation treatment for children below and above five years. We are also educating people on matters hygiene,” Nelson said. Every parent all over the world shares a common goal for their children. A goal to help them grow up, to be happy and be healthy adults, who achieve their full potential in their own capacity. To this end, parents aim to give their children the very best start to life. There is no better time to have nutritional impact in their lives than in their first 1,000 days. For this to happen, a parent must aim to provide nutrients that will not only develop the brain of the child but also give him strength and courage to keep on living. Pregnancy and infancy are the most important periods for brain development. Mothers and babies need good nutrition to lay the foundation for the child’s future cognitive, motor and social skills, school success and productivity. The first 1,000 days from pregnancy through two years of age are important not only for the child but also the parent. These days can either break a child or make a child in terms of life productivity. Babies need several nutrients in building the brain during pregnancy. These include iron, protein, copper, folate, zinc, iodine and certain fats. Nine, 10 Zinc, in particular, supports the development of the autonomic nervous system. Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids found in breast milk, fish oils and egg yolks play a central role. Iron is the most common nutritional deficiency, with approximately 2 billion people worldwide affected. Mbaja said breastfeeding is continued alongside complementary foods because it is the main source of nutrition. “At this time it is recommended to introduce one meal per week to recognise possible allergies and intolerance. Whole milk baby yoghurt is a high protein option between six-12 months of age,” he said. “Start also with single grain cereal one to eight tablespoons with a spoon and not bottle or infant feeder.” The World Health Organisation estimates that there are 469 million women of reproductive age and about 600 million preschool and school-age children worldwide anaemic, with at least half of these cases attributable to iron deficiency. Infants and children under five are at risk of developing iron deficiency anaemia because of their increased requirements for rapid growth and diets that are often lacking in sufficient absorbable iron. If not given the right nutrients, the children will not only be stunted but will suffer from diseases such as pneumonia. Globally, the 1,000 days’ concept of nutrition informs early childhood feeding guidelines. The World Bank, USAid, the WHO and Unicef all have pushed the importance of nutrition. Mbaja said infants should be exclusively breastfed from zero to six months. “Mother’s milk has all the nutrients that fit the baby’s growth for the entire six months without anything else, other than medication prescribed by physicians,” he said. Mbaja said mothers who cannot breastfeed due to some reasons such as illness, pre-term babies and low birth weight babies are advised on formula milk, such as nan, cows gate, infacare and isomil. “Milk letdown can be hindered by a number of factors. Therefore, during assessment, the nutrition therapist addresses the following: mentality of the mother, health of both the mother and baby, physiological state of the child, for instance, cleft palates, among others,” he said. He said cow’s milk should not be given to children below one year. “This is because the protein in it is not easily digested. It forms a curd and causes protein allergies,” he added. HEALTHY DIETS Mbaja says the kind of foods to be given to infants and quantities depend on the food available. He gave examples of weaning foods, which include mashed green bananas, mashed potatoes and vegetables, beans, lentils and soybeans and milk baby yoghurt. When asked what options low-wage and unemployed parents have, Mbaja said: “In a hospital setup, those with severe acute malnutrition and moderate acute malnutrition are put on supplementary feeding programme. Therapeutic flour is given and a ready-to-use therapeutic food, cereals and oil,” he said. Therapeutic flour is developed by mixing rice bran, chickpea and whole wheat flour in different ratios. Therapeutic foods are usually made of a mixture of protein carbohydrates, lipid and vitamins and minerals. They are usually produced by grinding all ingredients together and mixing them. Mbaja said as a nutrition therapist, one does the assessment to ensure the availability of locally available foods, from which the mothers are advised on food combination. “In emergency services, the government is also providing relief foods. However, these foods might not complete the nutrition requirements. Therefore, as nutrition therapists, we give oral supplements to meet the requirements,” he added. To prevent malnutrition, the government recommends: promotion of healthy dietary practices among women of reproductive age, adequate micronutrient intake, routine weight monitoring and appropriate counselling for pregnant women. It also recommends ensuring all HIV positive mothers are counselled on good nutrition practices, strengthening the capacity of health facilities to adequately offer maternal nutrition services. Another solution is nutritional diet for babies during pregnancy, including exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months, the right foods introduced to babies at the right times, water and other healthy beverages with no added sugars for toddlers.