The survey results builds on the growing
literature on the blossoming relationship between China and African countries.
China is the biggest trading partner for Africa since 2009, and the Asian
economic giant has undertaken massive infrastructure investments in Africa,
including Kenya’s Sh327 billion standard gauge railway. China’s trade with Africa increased
twenty-fold since the turn of the 21st Century to hit US$ 200
billion in 2012.  The Chinese Ministry of
Commerce valued bilateral trade with Africa at US$ 222 billion, in
2014.  In addition, China-Africa Development
Fund (CADF) estimated Chinese investments in the continent at US$ 32.4 billion
in 2014, a figure expected to reach US$ 100 billion by 2020. While trade remains the dominant attribute
of China-Africa relations, Beijing is cementing its foothold in the continent
in a number of fronts, including politics, security peacekeeping and ideology. Politically, China has adopted a policy of
non-interference in the domestic affairs of African countries, in line with the
China-Africa Policy of 2006. Under the policy, sovereignty is considered sacred­­
— a view that mirror’s China’s own history of being dominated and humiliated by
foreign powers. The flow of development aid into Africa
from the global North has for long been tied to governance, human rights,
transparency, accountability and existence of vibrant civil society; parameters
that China has not been vocal about. In addition, the narrative that
development can be realized through other forms of governance, besides
democratic ideals as espoused by the West, has made Beijing an easy sell in
many African capitals. As a fragile continent, China has also
been Africa’s ally in peacekeeping. By 2012, China had over 1,800 military,
police, and civilian personnel in UN peacekeeping operations in Africa, the
largest contributor among UN Security Council permanent members. As would be expected, in a global system —
defined more by pursuit of national interest — China’s inordinate rise and its
increasing dalliance with Africa has elicited fair amount of criticism. A section of the international community
sees China as predatory power, whose only interest is to cart away Africa’s
natural resources only to re-introduce them as high value finished products. Additional concerns have been raised with
regards to transparency of financing, technology transfer and protection of labour
rights. Sceptics opine that China’s engagement with Africa will only lead to a
win-whine relationship, characterized by poverty, dependence and a new crop of
dictators in the continent. In response, China has unveiled a panoply
of policy measures to palliate the fears and brand itself as a true, equal
partner of Africa. Key among the policies is to invest in development projects,
forgive debts, boost agriculture and help develop Africa’s human capital. Beijing is equally implementing a number
Confucius institutes and cultural centres across Africa’s capitals to buoy its
cultural acceptability, something Western countries such as the UK and the US
have excelled at. At the Confucius institutes, Africans are
learning Chinese language; fueled partly by prospects of gainful employment in
the mushrooming Chinese enterprises in the continent. Rather than just complain, Western
capitals seem to have learnt their lessons, as revealed by recommendations of
the Commission on State Fragility, Growth and Development led by former British
Prime Minister David Cameron. Cameron is calling on Western countries
and international organisations such as the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund to go slow on democratic reforms in Africa, and instead focus on
provision of basic security and basic economics. Ultimately, it is the prerogative of
African people to determine the value they derive from various development
partners. All development partners, China included, are welcome, as long as
they promote conditions necessary for preservation of peace, while promoting
stability and development in Africa.  Cavince is a scholar on
China-Africa relations.  