Besieged lawyer Miguna Miguna has criticised interior CS Fred Matiang'i for referring to judges as an "evil clique". Matiang'i appeared to lift the lid on the behind-the-scenes plot to deal with 'errant' judges when he appeared before the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security on Tuesday. He tore into the Judiciary, accusing it of frustrating the Executive. More on this: Government targets judges over recent rulings But Miguna said: "Even the worst and most despicable tyrants like Idi Amin, Jean-Bedel Bokassa and Mobutu Sese Seko never got to the point of referring to judges as an evil clique the way despots like Matiang'i are doing. They must fall." Via Facebook on Wednesday, the self-declared General of the NRM asked the Minister to charge him if he acquired his Identification Card illegal as alleged. Matiang’i told a parliamentary committee that Miguna obtained his Kenyan passport and ID fraudulently and with the help of the late Immigration minister Otieno Kajwang’. Read: Miguna got ID illegally with the help of Kajwang’, says Matiang’i Miguna called him a convicted criminal and told him: "If I acquired my Kenyan passport fraudulently, charge me. If I violated any immigration law, rule or procedure, charge me. If I uttered any falsehoods in court, charge me with perjury." The lawyer further asked Matiang'i to produce him in a court of competent jurisdiction so they can face each other. "You can't do that because you are lying. Stop using guns. Kenya must be a country governed by the rule of law, not guns," he said. "Your lies are transparent rubbish. You will pay for brutalising me. Mark my word." Matiang'i told the committee that Miguna was not taken to court as he was never in the custody of IG Joseph Boinnet and that he was not deported. He said the NRMKe leader was removed from the air side of the airport as required by law and international treaties. "I never signed any deportation orders. He was not in Kenya. He was a passenger on transit who never presented his credentials. He was sent back to his last port of call which was Dubai," he said. Noting their actions were guided by the law, as their responsibility is to implement it, the Minister asked Parliament to help the Executive uphold these laws. Details: Miguna was never in police custody, was not deported - Matiang'i Also read: [Statement] Why I refused to hand over my Canadian passport - Miguna Click here for the latest political news