Busia county has formed response committees in villages to deal with armyworm outbreak. Agricuture executive Moses Osia on Friday said the pest have invaded farms. "The county armyworm response committee will meet with village, ward and subcounty committees at the Busia Agricultural Training College next week to evaluate the magnitude of the invasion," Osia said. He spoke in Busia after distributing 8,000 mango seedlings to farmers. He asked the government to declare armyworms a national disaster. He further called upon farmer to immediately report immediately to the agriculture offices immediately they notice the worms in their farms in a bid to manage as it can destroy the whole maize crop if not controlled immediately. "Scientists have said the worm can be nasty if not controlled. It is time for armyworm to be declared a national disaster," Osia stated. We might need the support of the Food Agricultural Organization and other partners to bring the deadly worm under control. Osia said the county will seek support to raise Sh20 million needed to buy chemicals to control the pests. The pest control budget is over Sh20million which is not small amount to be handled by the department. The outbreak of the FAW in Western and parts of Rift Valley led to law yields last season with the situation expected to worsen this season if no concerted efforts are put in place to tame the deadly worms. Dr Osia said Busia has 6000 bags of maize at the Malaba Stores of the National Cereals and Produce Board to cushion against food shortage in the county before the harvest season From June onwards. The FAW is a migratory pest which undergoes a full eggs-larva- pupa-adult metamorphosis. The female lays tiny eggs in masses of 150-200 which are covered with protein sheath to protect them from attack by natural enemies and pesticides. The larval stage is the most destructive phase, feeding on soft plant tissues. Adult Moths are active at night and mates in the evening. Attack on maize at early vegetative stage can result into 100% crop loss if no control measures are taken. To avoid FAW attack, Dr Osia urged farmers to plant early and adhere to regional planting calendar, avoid late and off-season planting avoid planting new crop near infested plants and use recommended fertilizers and keep fields weed free to boost plant vigor Dr Osia while distributing farm inputs to farmers from Burumba Ward including maize seeds and top dressing fertilizers said food poverty level had dropped to 40% from 60% contrary to false notion. He said vulnerable farmers benefitted from free farm inputs while those who can afford were given subsidized seeds and fertilizer during the planting season in February.