Kirinyaga Woman Representative Purity Ngirici has said she would not be intimidated as she delivers on her mandate. “I am asking Governor Waiguru [Anne]  to concentrate on developing the county instead of creating sideshows after failing to deliver,” she said. Ngirici said more than 80 per cent of Kirinyaga people voted for her. Ngirici and Waiguru have been at loggerheads since the heckling incident two weeks ago during a visit by Deputy President William Ruto. The Woma Rep also told Waiguru to stop capitalising on projects lobbied by MPs. Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira lobbied for the tarmacking of the Kagio –Mutithi road yet Waiguru has taken credit, she said. Ngirici made the remarks at Kandongu Primary School in Mwea during a medical camp organised by her organisation Ngirichi and Sons Rescue Team. She was flanked by Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Sholei. ‘’Let the governor stop misleading residents over national government projects. Instead, she should use county funds to spur development, Ngirichi said. The MP’s husband, Andrew, said they support peace. He accused the governor of trying to intimidate security agencies to arrest him. I have done nothing wrong, he said. “I am not the one who organised the heckling. If I was involved, then I would have been arrested alongside those I hear have been picked,” he said Ngirici said the governor had failed to deliver and seeking a scapegoat for her failures. He said Waiguru has yet to commission a single project. “I hear Waiguru has called for my arrest. Let the police do their work or let her send her county enforcement officers to arrest me. Let her take her problems somewhere else.’’ On April 7, Waiguru accused Ngirici of paying youths to heckle and embarrass her during Ruto’s Kirinyaga tour when he commissioned the construction of the Gakoigo – Njega’s road. Meanwhile, Ngirici has urged the youth, women and persons with disabilities to apply for 30 per cent tenders set aside for them. She said the group must take advantage of the allocation both in the national and the county governments.