Police have finally arrested a wanted man accused of cyberbullying and extorting money from members of Parliament. Boniface Chacha’s Easter party was cut short by a doorbell by police at his hotel room in Tarime, Tanzania on Sunday. The fraud suspect was arrested by both Kenyan and Tanzanian police after a tip off that he had been hiding in the PKM Hotel in Tarime, 20 kilometres from the Kenyan border. Read: Man conning MPs is known to legislators - DCI Chacha had been in the hotel for more than 10 days when he was arrested. Police said the suspect was on the move to Zanzibar, where he had fully booked a hotel for one year. After more than 12 hours of driving from Tanzania, the 23-year old was yesterday locked up at the Muthaiga police station. He will be questioned following complains that he has been fraudulently soliciting money from legislators. Chacha denied the claim. “The accusations are purely political,” Chacha told the Star yesterday. Chacha is a former employee at the Devolution ministry and was a friend to many MPs during the 11th Parliament, a friendship that he used to acquire details and contacts of other MPs. Also read: MPs to reveal identity of woman sending nude photos According to the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Chacha will be arraigned in court this week to face charges. The charges include registration of fake M-Pesa account. The account was registered using the identity of Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege in Donholm “I am not going to comment on that matter,” Chacha said when the Star sought to establish his links with Chege. Police have so far arrested 70 people involved in the scam, Kinoti said on Sunday. Among them are two students of Multimedia University, who were found guilty of trying to solicit Sh100,000 from Jakoyo Midiwo. The students claimed to have been sent by Chege. Derick Ng’etich and Edwin Warukira told police that they were sent by Chacha. They two said they had met Chacha in Midiwo’s house. Chacha has been on the run after MPs complained that he had been extorting money from them. Some of Chacha's victims include National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Cabinet Secretaries Eugene Wamalwa, Peter Munya and Margaret Kobia.  Click here for the latest political news