Two ODM lawmakers and a party official have asked NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula to support Raila Odinga. MPs Antony Oluoch (Mathare) and George Aladwa (Makadara), as well as ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna, said both Mudavadi and Wetang’ula will need Raila’s support for their 2022 presidential ambitions. Aladwa said Raila agreed to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta for the benefit of Kenyans. Read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge Related: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Speaking at a church service in Nairobi yesterday, Sifuna criticised Mudavadi and Wetang’ula for falling out with Raila. Sifuna said both Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should apologise to Raila and allow him to lead Luhya’s because he is a courageous leader. “We don’t need a new party for Luhya. What we need is to take over ODM, which is a well-established party,” he said. Sifuna said ODM is the party for Luhyas because the secretary general and the deputy party leader come from the Luhya community. “All we need is to persuade Raila to support a Luhya to be the presidential flagbearer in 2022,” Sifuna said. REFORMS Aladwa said the Luhya MPs in ODM support the search for the community’s unity spearheaded by Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. “But they need to support Raila for peaceful co-existence,” he said. “Western region has to come together to get more bargaining power. We will go for the seat of Nairobi governor in 2022.” Aladwa said it will be difficult for a Luhya to ascend to the presidency without the support of their neighbours. Oluoch urged Uhuru to protect the country’s resources and ensure equal distribution to end corruption. He also called for electoral reforms before the 2022 general election for a free, fair and credible poll. Oluoch said all indications are that things have fallen apart at the IEBC. “I have no sympathy for [Wafula] Chebukati. What we said before the elections is what they are quarreling about now. The handshake should ensure no electoral injustice takes place again,” Oluoch said. [VIDEO] Mulembe 'marriage' with you is over, Wetangula tells Raila Also Read: Raila to Wetangula: I did not plot your downfall Click here for the latest political news