The handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta confirms Opposition leader Raila Odinga was paid, politician Boni Khalwale has said. The former Kakamega Senator said this on Sunday but added that Raila should return the favour to Luhyas by respecting them. "Because of you there are a lot of unanswered questions. We want the respect we have given you, honorable Prime minister. Respect begets respect. Never again shall Luhya leaders divide our people," he said. Reated: Raila's supporters frozen in wait for true meaning of Uhuru handshake Khalwale, who has openly opposed the unity deal, hit back via Twitter after the ODM boss told him off. Raila noted he had to reach out to his opponents and that he will take goodies to the Opposition's National Super Alliance. But Khalwale said: "He just confirmed the handcheque." The politician is Deputy Leader of Ford Kenya party, whose boss is Bungoma Senator and Nasa principal Moses Wetang'ula. His post attracted at least 100 responses by people who either agreed or disagreed with him. One Twitter user termed Khalwale a noisemaker and said Raila is not in his league. "Baba is not in your league. In fact, he has described you very well; mtoto (a baby). Grow up, baby boy," one Kipchumbe said. Eric Shiks wondered what happened to the official's declaration earlier in the year, that "we shall swear in Raila wapende wasipende (whether they like it or not)". He wrote: "They set up Raila and then left him over treason accusations. He managed [to find a] way out. Now they're all over regretting it." One Nyambane told Khalwale that idleness will keep him on Twitter until his successor Cleophas serves two terms and goes on to become Governor. Roy Kobwanga said: "With all respect due to you as a friend, [Boni Mtetezi], I have had issues with Baba but I can assure you that you are doing yourself great political harm. Go slow on him or you will soon be a Musikari Kombo." Another person said Khalwale cannot be trusted as "he can give his innocent bulls weed so I don't want to imagine what he can do to human beings". Nick Ogunyo said: "As long as Luhya unity is elusive, RAO (Raila Amollo Odinga) will call the shots. The other principals are still inconsistent and undecided on the way forward." 'ANY MEAT FROM RAILA?' On Sunday, Deputy President William Ruto criticised the Opposition saying its politicians are used to groupings because Nasa comprises of different parties with different ideologies. He compared the coalition to Jubilee Party, which he noted is one and added that the President's word is not objected. More on this: No camps in Jubilee, Uhuru's word final - Ruto A Twitter user identified only as Oridho told Khalwale to solve his problems on his own since he walked with Raila for long but did not learn from him. But Nestariza concurred with Khalwale saying Raila should explain himself to his followers and Kenyans. "Baba says ameleta nyama (he has brought meat) while the son can clearly see ameingia mkono tupu (he is empty-handed). Ask him what happened to whoever swore him in." This was in reference to lawyer Miguna Miguna who was deported to Canada for the second time. Nestariza asked: "What is the roadmap to solving corruption, exclusion and many other issues we had before the 'handcheque'? We resist political brokerage." On Saturday, Raila and his Nasa co-principal Musalia Mudavadi shared a platform for the first time since the famous March 9 handshake. The two, whose relationship has been frosty since then, said the coalition was still intact and that its parties will remain united. The parties are ODM, Ford Kenya, Mudavadi's Amani National Congress and Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper Democratic Movement. Raila said the required reforms could not be achieved by Nasa alone - without working with Jubilee - and asked his critics to be patient. “We’re building bridges to enable us cross to Canaan. The three co-principals remain my allies. We must work together to bring about reforms that will end tribalism, corruption and electoral injustices,” he said. More on this: Raila and Mudavadi share platform, affirm friendship Also read: Mudavadi hints at merger between ANC and Ford Kenya Click here for the latest political news