Primary schools will not open for term two lessons if the government fails to address pertinent issues on mass transfers, Knut boss Wilson Sossion has said. Sossion said the government must address termination of policies on delocalisation of teachers, performance appraisal, and promotions. The union leader said these issues have demoralised teachers in their endeavours to provide quality education. He made the remarks during the Homa Bay Knut branch AGM held at Homa Bay High school on Sunday. Sossion said the grievances should be addressed fast on grounds they interfere with teachers performance. Read: Commission to redeploy and delocalise all school heads posted in home counties He was accompanied by Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga. "The matters are directly affecting teachers negatively. We’ve aired the issues but since they don’t understand there will be no opening of schools for the second term because it will be a massive strike in the country," Sossion said. The SG said teachers will be camping at the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) offices during working days until the government complies with their demands. "It has come to our knowledge that what the employer understand best is a strike. We have written to them about the issues but their response doesn’t come forth," he said. Sossion claimed the policy of delocalisation of teachers will affect marriages. "Teachers don’t support policies aimed at breaking their families through transfer to areas far away from their homes. The policy will automatically derail class performance," he said. Wanga argued that mass transfers of teachers is a disadvantage to the society as well. She said teachers who work in their villages offer various forms of aid to the society. "Besides breakage of families, assistance like moulding children in line with particular society moral values is set to be affected," Wanga said. During the meeting, teachers said they spend a lot of time in cyber responding to TPAD policy. "TPAD has forced teachers to spend most of their time in cyber cafes instead of teaching," area executive secretary Patrick Were said. Kenneth Ngangah, who is Knut's Bungoma executive, also said the TSC's delocalisation programme will cause problems in marriages. "You cannot transfer a teacher who has a family from Bungoma to Kwale unless you want his or her marriage to collapse,'' Ngangah said. Speaking at Bungoma High School on Sunday, he asked the commission to stop the transfers. He accused it of wanting teachers to spend their salaries on upkeep instead of developing themselves and their families. ''It seems the TSC wants our teachers to die poor because it wants them to spend their salaries without investing." Nyangah noted that the teachers had been serving as role models in their home areas and that they will face discrimination and other challenges at their new stations. "Look at what non-local teachers in Wajir, Mandera and Garrisa counties are going through. [Why does the government] want more teachers to suffer the same fate?" The official asked the TSC to move non-local teachers from Mt Elgon, saying they were being targeted by criminal gangs. He regretted that when the gangs plan to attack the teachers, their local counterparts do not alert them. Also read: TSC mass transfer rules face problems — CEO Click here for the latest political news