It is now clear that 2022 politics have set in earnest. The famous handshake has altered the political landscape significantly and changed the course dramatically. The focus has now shifted from hostilities, antagonism and secession to a quest for national unity, electoral justice and the legacy of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga as the grand masters of our politics. President Uhuru has now taken firm control of the direction and activities that will shape his legacy, and thus is singly responsible for the outcome of his second and final term. The collegiality and dualism of the presidency as was witnessed at the beginning of the first Jubilee administration is now not part of the leadership display. He has established a team comprising old-hand administrators and fiercely loyal political handlers at Harambee House and State House. Inviting Raila to be part of the national leadership with government facilitation has taken the wind from the sails of vibrant opposition leadership. The NASA brigade had almost exhausted all known tricks in the political book and was on the brink of militancy. However, it is not only the opposition forces that have been disorganised by the change of tact. Jubilee also was not aware of the handshake until it happened and are as much disaffected as the NASA folks. Those allied to Deputy President William Ruto have panicked. They had wrongly thought they had tightly planned and dusted the succession plan, just awaiting implementation. And the developments at the IEBC have been exposed as a culmination of a process to establish a new structural outfit to manage the 2022 political succession. The person to emerge with the majority commissioners in new team will control the electoral process, thus its outcome. In one of his opinion pieces, columnist Macharia Gaitho captured the mood in the DP’s camp as comprising insecurities around divisions over the succession pact, which are holding the country hostage. “...the DP demands that others cease politicking and concentrate on development while he devotes every minute of his time to a premature 2022 election campaign.” What was earlier on dismissed as initial shock to the Ruto camp has developed into a full-fledged panic mode. Close aides are working in overdrive to undo the rolling stone the Raila-Uhuru handshake has become. The recent meeting between Raila and Mzee Daniel Moi has caused more jitters in the Rift Valley. It was camouflaged as a visit to the convalescing retired President, who had just returned from an Israeli hospital. However, what was not lost on observers was the presence of the son preferred as successor to Mzee Moi. Gideon Moi appeared to have set aside his engagements at the Coast in a hurry to come and receive Raila at Kabarak. The retinue of the Raila Company on one hand and Rift Valley politicians assembled by Gideon as the welcome party on the other hand spoke volumes politically. The history of Ruto and the Moi family relationship has been anything but cordial. On occasions that they have been on one side of the political divide, as now, it is because of circumstances beyond their control, like President Uhuru. Ordinarily, they have deliberately taken opposite camps and directions on momentous political occasions. They have continuously struggled to wrest from each other, absolute control of the populous and vote-rich Rift Valley region. Signs that the Deputy President was not sitting pretty came to a head over the last weekend when he publicly rejected any attempts to amend the Constitution. Calls for constitutional amendments to create more positions in the Executive have been gaining currency of late. It is argued in political circles that one the ingredients of the handshake is the creation of the Prime Minister position. Pessimists and anti-handshake crusaders portray efforts to review the Constitution as selfish, individual-focussed and intended to mollify Raila. NASA and later-day government supporters argue the country should have a structure that accommodates losers in an election. Senator James Orengo, while responding to the Deputy President, insisted the time to review the laws is ripe and now. The position was immediately rejected by Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and MP Aden Duale, who swiftly defended the DP. Both arguments miss out on the very valid merits of the need to expand the Executive. Scholars and independent opinion leaders have robustly presented objective grounds for the removal of state functions from the Executive. The fusion of the head of state’s responsibilities with those of the Executive have created unnecessary confusion in our leadership structure. The executive presidency has been largely responsible for the violent tensions that regularly occur during every electoral cycle. The American presidential system model that Kenya heavily borrowed from is effectively checked by the strong state governments as well as the independent Congress and judiciary. The increasing traction by the proponents of constitutional review has stung the DP camp into reaction. The international community is keen on a stable Kenya and is also eager to find if there is value in the push. The constitutional amendment being proposed by Tiaty MP William Kamket cannot therefore be ignored anymore. What complicates Ruto’s woes is the history of Kenya’s political deals and the jinx of the Deputy President’s position. Since Independence, the country has had 11 deputies but only one has ever succeeded his boss. Further, our politicians have had a knack for broken deals and unhonoured MoUs. The machinations surrounding political alliances are numerous and littered with signed but later trashed affidavits and verbal agreements that cannot stand the test of legal scrutiny. The NASA MoU has already suffered this fate, leaving bitter tastes in the mouths of the principals. There has been loud disquiet about some Central Kenya leaders reneging on the Jubilee succession. This has forced Ruto allies there to publicly either affirm their commitment or reprimand their colleagues. Yet others such as Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu have openly said they owe no political debt to anybody. Raila is the only political leader in Kenya to have cried foul so many times about unfulfilled promises but outside of the Vice President’s perch. Our half a century history has affirmed that all the vice/deputy presidents except Moi never became Presidents. Pundits are wondering whether DP Ruto could be headed the same direction. His fortunes are not as scattered and thin as those of his predecessors, though. He has a business acumen that has enabled him to accumulate an empire. He is also almost self-made, an avid and skilled campaigner. Ruto also has retained the confidence of his boss and friend, Uhuru. President Uhuru will bequeath to his erstwhile partner the expansive government network, machinery and resources for use in the succession battle. But this is only plausible if the referendum quest fails to gain momentum leading to the Prime Minister’s post. Should the movers and shakers of the review process succeed, the DP’s goose is cooked. The most plausible scenario i that the Prime Minister will have more executive powers while the President, as the head of state, will be more ceremonial. It is unlikely Ruto will be attracted to a largely ceremonial presidency. President Uhuru is focussed on securing his personal legacy and may fall into the Machiavellian temptation and trap. Under the circumstances, Raila’s move has put Ruto’s quest to be the fifth Kenyan President in serious jeopardy. Raila is now playing a game which he cannot lose and thus he has the luxury to poke opponents and allies alike, and at will. If Ruto survives, then the pushers of the constitutional review will rue their efforts and suffer the fate of predecessors like the late Kihika Kimani. If he does not succeed, he will join the long list of unfortunate deputies who gave their all but lived to tell tale of the illusion of power. Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst