"Dumpsite', that is what comes to mind when someone mentions Dandora. It is so stuck in people's minds that some think the entire place is a waste-yard. But despite Dandora being home to more than one million people, your mindset will probably be right when you visit the area, especially for the first time. The entire place is literally a garbage dump. All of the city's trash is dumped right in front of residential houses, drainages, children playgrounds, roadsides, and in some areas, in the middle of pathways. Garbage trucks no longer get to the dumpsite because of deplorable and impassable roads aggravated by the ongoing rains. Because of this, the truck drivers resort to deposit trash on the roads for fear of getting stuck in the gaping potholes that make them susceptible to attack by criminal gangs manning the site. Rain waters mix with trash and sewage, which freely flow due to bursted sewer-lines and children play in the rotten mixture. “Dandora is just like you are seeing it. I cannot say we have developed an immune systems for this kind of environment, but I fear, especially for our children,” resident Paul Omollo said. A distinctive odour strikes your nose immediately you reach Dandora One Primary School from Outer Ring – Juja Road Roundabout. Rotting garbage, mixed with sewer and rain water water welcomes you to Dandora at this point. As you move towards Dandora along the Komarok Road, the small heaps of garbage increases and the foul smell intensifies. Just outside Kinyago Police Station in Dandora Phase III, sewage is flowing all over the road and into the small field where children play. What baffles, is that the children, some under 10, play bare foot. “This so small (sewage). You should have come here immediate after rains, I think if you have admired to come to Dandora again,” a police officer at the station said. It is also at the same place where trucks that have managed to get to the site line up to go through the weigh-bridge that determines how much the contractors are paid. But they are unable to get through because an excavator trying to clear the waste dumped on the way, stalled. It is a long wait. Right outside Dandora secondary school, another mountain of garbage is building. Stagnant waters are all over. The situation is the same outside Tom Mboya Primary School. At this point, it is not only garbage and stagnate water unleashing the bad smell, but noise from touts and hooting matatus as well. Matatus use the route after John Osogo Road, which they used to follow was cut off by garbage. 