Civil society organisations now say they are not in support of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa principal Raila Odinga. In a statement on Sunday, they said the ‘Building Bridges’ intitiative cannot lead to greater respect for human rights, the rule of law and good governance, let alone unite the country. Uhuru and Raila's grand plan concerns an end to hate following the lengthy and stressful 2017 elections season - they want to push for national healing, reconciliation, peace and unity. More on this: New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya Also read: Raila-Uhuru handshake erased poll feud, ended opposition politics The CSOs initially backed the deal but they said events surrounding the return or lawyer and NRMKe leader Miguna Miguna convinced them to change their position. They were convinced that the government " is irredeemably despotic and incapable of midwifing the raft of reforms and transformation envisaged in the agreement". "As such, the Civil Society Reference Group (CSRG) calls on the former Prime Minister to tread carefully, and not hesitate to abandon the handshake and the agreement altogether, if the Jubilee government continues on its well trodden path of dictatorship, disregard of the rule of law and impunity," read the statement signed by Suba Churchill. "[This is] the only viable option of continuing the struggle for the much needed reforms in the country’s governance structures and systems," added Churchill, who is the CSRG's Presiding Convener. The official said the group will only support the deal if implementation of the Public Benefit Organizations Act is part of the agenda. It also wants the government to commit to creating an enabling environment for the sector just as it has done for other actors in development and governance processes. Churchill further said it is unthinkable that the President did not seize the opportunity that the lawyer's return presented to demonstrate to the country and the world that he had the political will to take the country forward. Related: Kenya under world ridicule over Miguna, IPOA and ODPP must step in - KNCHR Other details: What civil society can do to sustain Kenya's democracy in 2018 He said the mistreatment Miguna was subjected to at the JKIA in Nairobi, and which he continues to suffer at Dubai International Airport, is being meted on him because of his role in Raila's swearing-in as the People’s President on January 30. "One can only conclude that the President did not wholeheartedly shake hands with the Nasa leader and still holds grudges that will impede the implementation of the deal he claims to have struck," he said. "Allowing police to turn the country’s busiest international airport and getway to the world into a battle field with its own citizens is the least Kenyans expected the Jubilee government to engage in at this point in time.' He noted that before the chaos, the county had been on the path of recovering its international standing after prolonged and mismanaged presidential elections that had to be repeated. On the assault of journalists at the airport, Suba added: "If the amount of violence police visited upon journalists and lawyers, whose only crime if at all was to do that which they are trained to do, is anything to go by ... then the former PM is better forewarned not to lend credibility and legitimacy to a regime not schooled in the language of dialogue." He noted that after the elections, during which Raila claimed at least 250 of his supporters were killed, Uhuru commended police on a job well done as the country struggled to heal. "[The regime], without even the slightest provocation, does not hesitate to apply crude tactics and unmitigated violence on its own citizens with such impunity," he said. Read: Miguna woes: Did Uhuru-Raila handshake ignite more hate than love? Read more: Uhuru-Raila handshake can end Kenyatta-Odinga dynasty feud, says David Ndii Click here for the latest political news