Thousands of mourners thronged Ihura Stadium in Murang’a town to bid goodbye to veteran politician Kenneth Matiba. Majority of the mourners however said they were shocked by his wish to have his remains cremated. It is against tradition, some residents said. Some mourners said they would have wished to have a grave site that would be visited by future generations. Joachim Gitonga, a member of the Kikuyu Council of Elders, said cremation is against the community’s tradition. Read : [Photos] Uhuru, Raila lead mourners at Matiba's Murang's funeral service Gitonga said someone of Matiba’s stature should have been buried by the elders and the family. He said, however, it is important that the family honours his wish to be cremated. But some locals felt Matiba was right to prefer cremation, saying the practice will soon be picked up by more Kenyans. Resident Peter Njoroge said with the increasing population more families will adapt cremation as farms shrink. He said it is cheaper and more convinient. Matiba’s remains were first taken to his rural home nicknamed ‘Embassy’ in Mukangu village, Kiharu constituency. It was finally taken to Ihura Stadium for the funeral service. Tradition dictates that he is taken to his home one last time before he is cremated. Only family members took Matiba’s body home as politicians waited at the stadium. Residents lined the streets to catch a glimpse of the procession. As his eulogy and tributes were read out, the mourners expressed sympathy over how cruel the state treated Matiba. His widow Edith eulogised him as a family man who was committed to the welfare of his family, even when he could not do much physically. “It was so hard watching my husband’s health decline. He bore his physical discomfort with the same courage and fortitude he did in his public life,” Edith said. Susan, Raymond, Ivy, Julie and Gitau described him as a charismatic leader. Susan said they were always judged to see if they could fit into his enormous shoes. “A man like our father comes along once in a lifetime, but we take comfort in knowing we all have a piece of him in us,” she said. Matiba’s first cousin George Gachugu, who manages Wangu Investment company, asked Murang’a leaders to rename Murang’a University college after him. Matiba started the company after buying 12,555 acres in Laikipia from a white settler. He later sold it out to shareholders from Kiharu constituency. Also read : [Photos] Uhuru leads Kenyans in mourning Matiba at Nairobi service The company has 12,748 shareholders, 430,000 cattle, 12,000 sheep and grows wheat and barley. Ford Asili executive director Mohammed Kussoma asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to find something more viable to commemorate Matiba. Naming the university after him is not enough. “Matiba loved you and ardently supported you Mr President. He should be honoured nationally,” he said. Matiba served as Kiharu MP for three terms from 1979 to 1988 and 1992 to 1997. Click here for the latest political news