Jubilee rebel MPs Alfred Keter and Bowen Kangogo have filed appeals challenging High Court’s decision to nullify their election. Keter from Nandi Hills and Kangogo from Marakwet East had earlier indicated they might not appeal, but their lawyers advised otherwise. Their elections were nullified by Justice Kanyi Kimondo Kangogo’s on February 27 and Keter’s on March 1. Kangogo’s appeal will be mentioned on April 18 in Eldoret. Kangogo lost an election petition filed by voter Sammy Kemboi. Kimondo said his election was marred by irregularities that affected the final tally. He ruled the IEBC did not carry out an accurate and verifiable election. Kimondo said the irregularities in some polling stations in the August 8 election cast doubt on the final numbers. Kangogo appeared to have defeated former MP Linah Kilimo with a margin of less than 1,000 votes. “The upshot is that Kangogo was not validly elected as MP for Marakwet East,” the judge ruled. He said the final results appeared opaque and unverified. The judge found that results of two ungazzetted polling stations — Embukala and Ketmekin — were included in the final tally, while those of two gazetted stations — Tot and Maroon dispensary — were not. Kimondo also questioned several sets of final results given by the returning officer. In a video clip played in court, the returning officer announced the final tally of 29,573, but in court he said the final tally was 30,020. Keter’s lawyers Kimutai Bosek, Otiende Amollo and Mutula Kilonzo Jnr moved to the Court of Appeal in Kisumu on Thursday last week. Rival candidate Bernard Kitur filed the petition. “We have been served with the appeal details and we are in the process of responding before a hearing date is set,” Kitur’s lawyer Amos Magut said.  ELECTORAL OFFENCE Kitur had accused the IEBC of colluding with Keter to rig him out. Keter was declared winner by the IEBC with 28,923 votes, against 13,872 garnered by Kitur. Kimondo said there was evidence Keter committed electoral offences by campaigning outside the stipulated time. “Keter engaged in unlawful campaigns, which tainted the fairness and integrity of the election,” Justice Kimondo ruled. Evidence was adduced that Keter carried out illegal campaigns in Labuywo, Kapkoris, Sitima primary and Ainapngetuny on August 6 last year. The campaigns officially ended on August 5. “I’m satisfied that Keter created a spectacle less than 48 hours before the election. He was not the ordinary Keter visiting his friend Mzee Maiyo at the time, but Keter the politician,” the judge said. The appeals will be heard and determined within six months. Keter defied Jubilee Party orders to step down as elected chairman of Parliament’s Labour and Social Affairs Committee. Kangogo was ordered to quit as elected vice chairman of the Environment Commitee. Jubilee wanted to appoint politicans from different parties. They refused to budge and were removed from the committees.