To deliver 100 per cent food and nutrition security in two years, the national and county governments must transform agriculture into a business and make devolution work for all Kenyans. Through the Big Four Agenda, the Jubilee administration aims to achieve self-sufficiency in food and nutrition by 2020. This is the only way to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; and for the government to deliver on the other three pillars — manufacturing, healthcare and housing. Delivering 100 per cent food and nutrition security will develop the economy and promote citizen well-being. The majority of Kenyans, however, are not aware it is the citizens, not the government, who will deliver on food and nutrition security. Subsistence farming is not a lifestyle choice; it is the responsibility of individuals, families and communities to eradicate extreme poverty and hunger. The national and county governments must lead Kenyans in a change of mindset. Kenyans must adopt the worldview of a liberated Christian interrogating life from a different perspective to make agriculture an attractive business. Agriculture, a devolved function, must also be adequately funded. Last week as I was reflecting on the Easter message of resurrection, redemption and forgiveness, I took the opportunity to discuss food matters with my kith and kin in Lweya village, Siaya county. I was shocked that they have no idea about the food security pillar. Or that it is their responsibility to deliver on this in the next two years. The attitude, particularly of youths in my village, towards agriculture and devolution worried me most. The youths feel strongly that devolving agriculture to the counties was a curse. In the devolved system of governance agriculture policies and strategies are not coordinated and articulated. The agricultural extension workers who would be seen in the village and who ran demonstration farms have disappeared. My village is located in the Uyoma peninsula, surrounded by Lake Victoria, yet there are no signs of overhead or drip irrigation systems. The impression I got from the youths is that they are unaware they are suffering from the dependency syndrome and a rigid attitude that educated people do not engage in farming. This raises three questions. First, will the government deliver 100 per cent food and nutrition security without involving small-scale farmers and citizens through civic education, running demonstration farms and involving citizens in effective public participation? Second, is the government ready to transform agriculture into a business that will deliver on the food pillar and absorb unemployed youth? Third, is there adequate political goodwill and a well-formulated and implemented budget to support agriculture at all levels of governments? For food and nutrition security to be achieved, the government at all levels must stabilise prices of staple food, provide storage for surplus stock, subsidise prices of inputs to increase production and establish social safety nets for vulnerable communities to access food. The current policies and strategies, which appear excellent on paper, have not delivered food and nutrition self-sufficiency because of many pitfalls. These problems cannot be avoided if the vision is not shared with the citizens. Agriculture institutions are performing dismally and there is lack of political goodwill to provide adequate resources to farming. The role of the government, at all levels, is to synchronise agricultural institutions, ensure good governance practices and efficient devolution, as well as social safety nets and land policies.