The Bomet government has finally agreed to complete the town’s stalled Sh400 million IAAF Stadium. The 30,000-seat stadium, which was started in 2013 by former Governor Isaac Rutto, stalled last year. The stadium is said to have consumed more than Sh250 million, but it needs a further Sh150 million to be completed. It was originally estimated to cost Sh222 million to meet standards of the International Association of Athletics Federations. Governor Joyce Laboso on Sunday said her administration is tendering for construction. She spoke at a volleyball tournament at Chepngaina Grounds in Bomet Central. Laboso said the stadium will greatly improve sports. “We know we have a challenge with fields that can host major games, but we have already tendered for the finishing of the stadium initiated by former county administration,” she said. Acting Youth and Social Services executive Bernard Ngeno said the stadium will be done in three phases, since it requires as much as Sh150 million to be completed. “We have requested the national government to help us since this is a huge project requiring a lot of money and we cannot allocate such an amount from our own kitty,” he said. The county, he said, has set aside Sh50 million this year for the project. The stadium fuelled a dispute between the governor and MCAs during the previous administration. The MCAs claimed the executive did not involve them in construction plans and single-sourced the contractor. The long drawn-out disagreements forced the assembly to stop funding for the project in 2015-16. They said it had become a cash cow for a few individuals at the executive, leading to the stalling of the project. In 2016, an explosive Auditor General’s report questioned the construction of the Bomet IAAF Stadium on land for which the county had no title deed. Edward Ouko’s 2014-15 financial year report raised concern that the cost of the project, initially estimated at Sh221,293,760, could shoot up. That was because the contractor had been paid Sh196,075,277 on completing half the work in December 2015. The auditor’s report said it was difficult to confirm expenditure as the master roll was not properly maintained. It did not contain the rate used to make payments, totals payable to each casual worker and the number of days. Engagement letters were also not availed for audit examination,” the report said.