Nyeri is embarking on agricultural diversification, promoting avocados and macadamias instead of traditional coffee and tea. Governor Mutahi Kahiga says an avocado purchasing, sorting and packing plant will be built in three years. It’s expected to give farmers a direct market abroad and eliminate brokers. "We want to focus on the European market instead of selling the crop to brokers at throwaway prices. Brokers buy the fruit for less than Sh10 and at times for Sh2, but reap huge profits at the expense of farmers,” he said. Kahiga was speaking on Saturday when he launched an avocado planting project at Munyange Secondary School in Mahiga ward in Othaya constituency. Board of management chairman Esau Kioni donated 100 Hass avocado seedlings. The county will add 50. The school intends to plant 200 trees this year. “We want a strong economy and we can do that by forming avocado and macadamia cooperatives to market the produce,” Kahiga said. DIVERSIFYING FARMING The county has given out at least 5,000 fast-growing avocado seedlings in every ward. Kahiga said they will increase forest cover and improve food security. Avocados begin bearing fruits in one and a half years. “Let’s replace exotic trees with avocado and macadamia. Production costs are low,” he said. The school can also earn income and the fruits can improve students’ nutrition. The governor said tree planting can improve Nyeri’s economy and increase forest cover. Planting can also help Kenya earn carbon-offsetting credits by reducing the emission of greenhouse gases. Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami encouraged students to plant at least 10 fruit trees in their homes. She said this would help families improve livelihoods. The government intends to distribute for free at least two million avocado trees to about 200,000 farmers. The aim is to earn as much as Sh20 billion by 2022. Experts say each Hass variety avocado tree can produce a least Sh10,000 net each year. The variety earns Sh700 million to Sh1.5 billion but that profit could rise with logistical support. Brokers know Hass avocados are highly profitable, but farmers don’t yet know.