The limited chances at Uganda national team, Cranes has forced Tusker’s holding midfield, Hashim Sempala to contemplate switching nationality to play for Harambee Stars. The talented midfielder, who joined the brewers from Jinja-based Bul FC in 2016, admitted that he had lost patience for a Cranes call-up and had resolved to try his luck with Harambee Stars. After turning for the Ugandan U-23 side in 2016, Sempala disclosed that Rwanda had sought his services. However, he declined the offer hoping for a senior team call. The left-footed midfielder hit back at Ugandan federation (Fufa) for overlooking him despite having a club record worth a national cap. He expressed his displeasure with the way Fufa treated some of their talented players based in the East African countries. He observed that thoughts of becoming a Kenyan national came to mind since he feels much appreciated here. He said playing for Tusker had given him the avenue to showcase his talent at club level and time has come for him to make a tough decision and bear its ramifications. He said: “I wouldn’t mind to play for Harambee Stars one day. I can change my nationality if guaranteed to play for Kenya. The competition for places in the Ugandan team is high and chances are not given fairly. They consider players who ply their trade overseas and most of the them do not get playing time compared to players who play in the local league in Uganda and the East African region. There are no structures for different age-groups and when one graduates from one age-group he is not guided to the next and that’s why deserving players never get caps.” “Back in 2016, Rwanda approached me but I declined since I was young and could not make such a decision. Right now I am grown up and I can gamble on anything. The joy of any player is to play in the national team and I am willing to do anything to play international football.” Save from Gor Mahia left back Godfrey Walusimbi players Ugandan players who ply their trade in KPL have never been invited for national team duties. Walusimbi was part of the Cranes team which played in last year’s Africa Cup of Nations finals in Gabon where Uganda exited at the group stages. Sempala joins his compatriot Umaru Kasumba who had earlier expressed interests in playing for Kenya. Kasumba, who turns for Sofapaka, voiced similar complaints, revealing that his thirsty for international football has made him mull over change of allegiance.