An online baby competition by Cussons turned ugly after supporters of one of the participants hurled insults at the quadruplets of her rival. The parent withdrew from the competition following the attacks. Supporters of a mother who has twins were cyber-bullying perceived rivals nominated in the Cussons Baby Moments competition. The competition duped Cussons baby moment requires interested mothers to upload pictures of their babies on the company’s website. The winner is expected to walk away with Sh500, 000 total cash prize and a year supply of the company’s products, among other gift items. The company is now warning participants against cyberbullying. Already the competition has undergone two nominations and contestants reduced to  20. The supporters accused the quad mother of taking advantages as she has never lost a competition. Through a statement, Cussons said that they had received complains after the competition sparked rivalry between parents. “Please note that according to the terms and conditions of the competition, cyber bullying is unacceptable. Contestants found guilty of this will be disqualified immediately without notice,” read the statement. The company has called for a warm and friendly environment for all the contestants too participate without fear of harassment. A post to the cussons company by the quadruplets mother Divinar Joseph officially withdrew her children citing that she would instead support other mothers. Read:Time to tame cyberbullying monster — Adelle's takeaway from UK summit “I withdraw from the competition. I have already told cussons not to include my babies. May the best team win.Thanking all my supporters if you can kindly support a fellow multiple mum. Mama twins,”read Diviana`s post. She said that this saw her followers unable to vote. In a post to the cussons, Lorraine Laureta mother to the twins urged the company to ensure their is enough evidence before disqualifying any contestant. “In national politics, have you ever seen the politicians fight? Its usually the supporters. So you don't have to blame the contestant when the supporters are the ones involved. Let peace prevail,” she posted.  Click here for the latest political news 