Seventy new water towers have been identified as the government targets 10 per cent forest cover by 2022. Monica Kalenda, Chief Conservator of Forests, says Kenya needs to plant 360 million seedlings annually instead of the current 170 million to effectively deal with the effects of climate change. Kalenda noted on Sunday that the exercise must be quickened, and that all Kenyans must participate, as climate change affects everybody. “We all need to work hard or else we will pay a heavy price for the destruction of forests”, she said in Eldoret during tree planting led by Uasin Gishu county and the Kenya Forest Service. Read: As government roars, nobody knows extent of Kenya's forest cover Among those who took part were Governors Jacskon Mandago and Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), athletes and politicians. William Kiprono, who is Secretary of Administration in the Environment ministry, said the government is keen on protecting the country’s five major water towers - Mt Elgon, Cherangany, Aberdares, the Mau and Mt Kenya. Kiprono lauded communities for helping to conserve the environment and reported that the KFS and other stakeholders had planted more than 50 million trees. The private sector had about 100 million seedlings while the service had about 25 million, he said. The Secretary said they were liaising with Treasury for the release of funds to buy 500 million seedlings for planting across the country. Mandago and Tolgos said Kenyans should take seriously the call to plant trees in all areas. Mandago added that the region's Kaptagat Forest should be gazetted as a water tower. Professor Julius Tarus, who is Kenya Water Towers Acting Director General, said the country has 70 other water towers which have not been gazetted. "Our target is to have a water tower gazetted in each county so they are protected through conservation measures," he said. Related: Logging ban too little too late to save shrinking forests Also read: Get used to dry taps as tree cover sinks to alarming lows Click here for the latest political news