Persons entrusted
with handling relief money or goods found culpable of misusing them risk Sh10
million fines if Senate passes a new Bill tabled on Wednesday. The Disaster
Risk Management Bill, 2018 sponsored by Senators Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and
Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) also proposes Parliament to set up of a special
Fund to deal with disasters in the country. “A person
who being entrusted with any money or materials or otherwise being in custody
of money or goods meant for providing relief during a disaster appropriates…for
the person’s own use…or compels another person to misappropriate the money or
goods…” “…commits an
offense and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten million or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or to both.” Read: Be patient, you'll soon get county funds, Eugene tells Governors Numerous
victims of disasters such as starvation caused by drought, fire and floods have
been complaining of not receiving relief goods and necessary materials donated
by the government and well-wishers for distribution by public officers. The passage
and enactment of this Bill would therefore address the challenge some public
officers entrusted with the distribution of relief goods from enriching themselves
and their allies at the expense of victims. The Bill
seeks to establish a Disaster Management Fund to be under the National Disaster
Risk Management Authority coordinating disaster issues both at the national and
county levels. “The main
premise of the Bill is to approach disaster risk management in a manner that seeks
to respond effectively and in a timely manner to any disaster or risk of
disaster, prevent the adverse effects of disaster, recover as far as possible,
the livelihood of communities affected by a disaster,” reads part of the bill. The creation
of the special Fund and Authority to coordinate the disasters in the country
would also compliment the work of Redcross of coming to the rescue of disaster
victims. Also Read: Lamu residents get relief food after fleeing al Shabaab attack However, the
counties and national governments set aside billions of shillings in the Emergency
kitty every financial year to cater for various cases that require immediate interventions
including disasters. National
Assembly will be required to allocate money every financial year to the Disaster
Management Fund apart from receiving additional funding from other sources
including donors and well-wishers. “The object
of the Fund shall be to provide funds to be used for disaster preparedness,
mitigation, response and recovery measures,” reads the Bill awaiting debate
when senators resume from a one-month recess early next month. The proposed
law also seeks to slap a fine not exceeding Sh1 million or a jail term below
one year for a person found culpable of making or circulating false alarm for a
disaster knowingly.  Click here for the latest political news