Widows of former politician Mark Too have 15 days to apply for permission to manage his estate. Justice Abida Ali gave the order following an application by Too’s daughter Chepkoech. Chepkoech sought to have widows Mary Too and Sophie Jelimo, the Fanikiwa Limited and the Cimbria East Africa Limited restrained from dealing in her late father’s assets until an administrator is appointed. She also sought to have the Cimbria East Africa Limited barred from releasing Sh100 million belonging to her late father. Court documents say Too died before he could complete a business deal with Cimbria East Africa Limited. He was the majority shareholder of a company called Fanikiwa Limited. The Cimbria East Africa Limited has denied it had a contract with the late politician. It said the contract was between it and Fanikiwa. It involved the sale, supply, installation and commissioning of a €1.5 million (about Sh187 million) pre-cleaning, drying and storage plant. Through the firm, Too had paid Cimbria East Africa Limited Sh100 as part of the cash required to acquire the plant. Chepkoech wants the court to compel the registrar of companies to provide information on directorship and shareholding of Fanikiwa Limited, the East African Investment Trust Limited, the Charterhouse Investments Limited, the Kingswal Holdings Limited, the Jamala Holdings Limited, the Grad East Africa Limited and the Bins (Nairobi) Limited. In the suit papers, she has raised concerns that the two widows have not taken letters of administration of the estate. Chepkoech wants the two summoned and ordered to stick to what the law requires of them. Cimbria disputed that Fanikiwa is entitled to Sh100 million as alleged. On May 16 last year, Fanikiwa informed Cimbria it wished to terminate the Sh100 million contract. Cimbra says because of the cancellation, Fanikiwa forfeited 30 per cent of the cash, which amounts to Sh30,000. The balance is Sh70,000. Jelimo in her reply said the application by Chepkoech is ill-conceived and based on falsehoods. She denied interfering with the estate. It is still intact, Jelimo said. Jelimo added that she and her co-wife are in the process of identifying all assets to apply for letters of administration. She asked the court to dismiss the case filed by Chepkoech.