More than 1,300 litres of illicit brews have been destroyed in Gatanga constituency, Murang’a County. The security officers destroyed 500 litres of chang’aa and about 800 litres of Kang’ara at Mabanda shopping centre. The exercise was led by Central regional coordinator Wilson Njega. 50 cartons of counterfeited Mara-vodka, 10 kilograms of bhang and 50 kilograms of yeast were also destroyed. Njega said the administration is putting in place concerted efforts to eradicate the illicit brews that are being produced along the Chania River. According to him, the local administration has managed to reduce the production of illicit brews along the river from 600 litres per day to only 200 litres. “It is not enough to confiscate and destroy them. We need to find out where they are being produced so we can deal with the problem from the source,” Njega said. Read; Wipe out drugs and illicit brews to save generations, Matiang'i orders police Njega also asked administrators not to be discouraged by small fines issued by courts against brewers saying consistent raids will discourage producers from the trade. “Keep arresting them even if they are released, they will eventually get discouraged and stop brewing more,” he added. Local County Commissioner John Elungata asked residents to help the police trace and arrest two illicit liquor brewers who operate at Gatunyu area and supply the brews in the entire region. Elungata said if the two suspect who use alias names ‘Martin’ and ‘Wariah’ are arrested, the problem of chang’aa will be over in the area. The commissioner said an army officer is in police custody after being arrested in custody after being found in possession of twelve rolls of bhang at Mabanda shopping centre. Area MP Joseph Nduati on his part lauded the security team for its efforts to fight the brews and appealed to locals to give information on bhang peddlers and producers of illicit liquor. “This is a fight that will only be won if we all work together. I will support any efforts towards ensuring that my constituency is free from illicit brews and drugs to help my people prosper,” the MP said. Also read: 520 litres of illicit brew seized in Mavoko, owner evades arrest  Click here for the latest political news