A press conference scheduled by the Nairobi Central Business District Association at Hotel Boulevard yesterday ended abruptly. Goons stormed the meeting and beat up association chairman Timothy Muriuki. The heavily built men said Muriuki was a conman hired by people out to tarnish the name of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. They roughed him up, tore the statement sheet and dragged him away by the collar of his coat, just as he started reading the statement. “We will not allow you to mess the governor’s name for political mileage. You will not criticise the governor. You won’t. This press briefing is not going to happen, I am assuring you of that,” one goon said. The goons forced him out of the hotel’s gate where a larger group was waiting. They tore his coat, punched and kicked him before he managed to run to the nearby Norfolk Towers for safety. Muriuki was later escorted to Central police station by GSU officers manning KBC gates. He recorded a statement. Deputy director of public communication in the office of the govenor Elkanah Jacob declined to comment. Muriuki said the press conference was meant to address matters affecting businesses such as floods, the drainage system, solid waste collection and crime in the city centre. The statement he was to read, however, seemed to support Sonko. “It is escapist, unrealistic and misleading to attribute Nairobi’s current woes to a single institution,” the statement said. Muriuki acknowledged that various institutions should work to fix Nairobi. “Let us separate politicking from service delivery and give Sonko a chance to deploy his delivery team, part of which was sworn in hardly a fortnight ago,” he said. Sonko’s leadership has been criticised, especially from Nairobi residents who say he has not delivered campaign pledges. The county has been in a mess, with hawkers and street children occupying the city centre, poor state of roads, constant flooding due to poor drainage and criminals harassing passers by, even during the day. Also Read: [VIDEO] CBD association chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' 