Once upon a time a traveller hired a donkey to carry him to a distant part of the country. The owner of the donkey went with the traveller, walking beside him to drive the donkey and point out the way. The road led across a treeless plain where the sun beat down fiercely. So intense did the heat become that the traveller at last decided to stop for a rest. As there was no other shade to be found, the traveler sat down in the shadow of the donkey. Now the heat had affected the donkey owner as much as it had the traveller, and even more so, for he had been walking. Wishing also to rest in the shade cast by the donkey, he began to quarrel with the traveller, saying he had hired the donkey and not the shadow it cast. The two soon came to blows, and while they were fighting, the donkey took to its heels leaving them both in the scorching sun. We are at a point in this country where we are witnessing quarrels among institutions that should be working together for the collective benefit of Kenya and its people. If it is not the Legislature fighting with the Judiciary, it is the Executive fighting with the Judiciary or the Executive fighting with the Legislature. The clash has become so bad that it appears that each arm is using its delegated authority to frustrate the other. We have seen the Judiciary issue orders interfering with the business of Parliament. We have also seen the Executive ignore court orders from the Judiciary. Currently, Parliament is on a collision course with the Judiciary over the vetting of judges elected to sit in the Judicial Service Commission. If the two institutions were to sit and reason out the issue, they would realise that there is really nothing to fight about. Elsewhere, the Executive is clashing with the Judiciary over the numerous orders challenging the decisions made by the government such as the recent deportation of lawyer Miguna Miguna. Again, these are matters that can be handled without creating the unnecessary confrontation we are witnessing. The list is actually endless and there are many examples that one can cite to illustrate this love-hate relationship among the three arms of government. But if this goes unchecked, the country is set to lose more, just as the traveller and the donkey’s owner lost both the donkey and the shadow while quarrelling. In a vibrant democracy such as ours, differences between institutions should not come as a surprise. But the differences should not be the reason why the institutions cannot work together. What should play the centre role is the interests of Kenyans and the well-being of the nation. The Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary, as arms of the same government, all receive their mandate and power from the people. Their roles and conduct of business are delegated and should reflect the will of Kenyans at all times. Though not expressly written, the Constitution recognises the principle of separation of powers, where each arm of the government is considered independent of the others; not separate. Article 1( 3 ) states that sovereign power is delegated to (a) Parliament and the legislative assemblies in the county governments; (b) the national executive and the executive structures in the county governments; and (c) the Judiciary and independent tribunals. These organs are supposed to perform their functions in accordance with the various provisions of the Constitution relating to their work. Separation of powers must be respected as one of the ways of entrenching constitutionalism in the country. As we strive for peace and stability, we must agree that all laws must be respected and that the various arms must work with mutual respect. This should be done with the interests of the country and its people being at the core. Political and communications consultant 