Several civil societies have demanded a complete overhaul of the leadership of UNAIDS following claims of sexual harassment against one of its top officials. The organisations led by Aids Healthcare Foundation-Kenya (AHF) said there is need for reforms as the organisation has breached its public trust due to the damning revelations. Early this year, UNAIDS External Relations Officer Martina Brostrom, accused the then Deputy Executive Director Luiz Loures of sexually assaulting her. Reports indicate that she decided to go public after exhausting all internal UN channels for justice to no avail. However, an internal investigation has since absolved Loures of any wrongdoing on grounds there was no evidence to corroborate claims being made against him. Read: UNAIDS’ mission to reduce child HIV infections Yesterday, Gender  Rights Officer Rita Mutheu said the case was mishandled. "The organisation takes pride in the empowerment of women and girls. Its mishandling of this case and the slew of unpleasant revelations that have followed say otherwise. The mishandling of the sexual harassment allegations threatens the credibility of the global AIDS agency." Mutheu emphasised the need to create a safe environment and a leadership culture that promote gender equality, protection of women's rights, transparency and an independent, fair process for addressing employee grievances at all levels, devoid of intimidation and fear. "We also demand that systems are put in place to ensure better and quicker handling of sexual harassment processes. The Martina Brostrom case took over 12 months to complete, which is totally unacceptable by any standards and shows UNAIDS lack of sense of urgency for sensitive issues such as this," she said. Mutheu expressed her displeasure for those in power terming them the worst sexual predators. She said that they use their positions to cover up their heinous acts. AHF's Advocacy Manager Alice Kayongowants UNAIDS to make public the report of its investigations and provide updates on mechanisms put in place to prevent reccurrence. She emphasised the need for strong witness protection systems for victims and whistle-blowers. "UNAIDS must remember that it is accountable to the entire global community, including Civil Society Organizations. We want to see that accountability in all the facets of its operations and procedures. Let them clear their name because this issue will cause a diversion on global aids," she said. The lobby groups also urged UNAIDS to ensure full implementation of its five-point plan to prevent and address all forms of harassment and unethical behaviour. The plan is one of several initiatives launched by the UN to address sexual harassment amid the global #MeToo movement. The initiatives include a hotline. Also read: Controlling HIV-Aids by 2030 is possible - Unaids Click here for the latest political news