Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo has defended female MPs after nude photos were sent to them saying "it is not always about sex". The legislator reacted on Tuesday to the case of Wazir Chacha, who was arrested for allegedly sending nude pictures to MPs while pretending to be Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege. Last Friday, the Murang'a MP denied knowing the conman and accused the media of "picking the wrong story and publicising it to soil her name." She said media outlets that ran the story should have sought more clarification from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. More on this: Sabina Chege denies close relationship with man conning MPs Also read: Muturi intervenes after MPs cry for marriages over woman's nude photos Millie shared her views in a Facebook post after someone posted a photo of another man, identified as Samwel from Murang'a, who took a photo with Chege. "I know sex sells but I find it abhorrent for any person or institution to spin this nonsense. Can women not do anything without it being about sex?" The MP said Kenyans turns matters sexual  even when there is no noeed. "I am sure if I told you women MPs had nyoyo (githeri) for lunch you would find a way of making it sexual. Maybe we had sex with the beans and now the maize wants sex too," she said. "Like I have always said, did any woman MP borrow your 'V' and misuse it? It cannot always be a vagina monologue. Only non-intelligent people make everything about women sexual. Grow up." Millie said Chege discovered that a conman was using her name to con people and even fraudulently registered a number under her name. "He would either solicit for money for Sabina's alleged cancer treatment abroad or would create a crisis that required urgent money. He conned both male and female MPs and non-MPs alike," she said. She said that a number of legislators sent Chacha money and reported that he used sexual messages to try to hit on them. "We share information on our WhatsApp. When we discovered he (Chacha) had tried to con several women MPs, we agreed to report him to police," she said. Also read: I'm innocent, Sabina Chege trying to fix me - Waziri Chacha Click here for the latest political stories