The Kenya National Highways Authority and National Transport and Safety Authority have raised concerns over invasion of footbridges by hawkers, beggars, muggers and street children in the city. They say residents are not using footbridges and are instead crossing roads at unauthorized places, leading to high number pedestrian deaths on the roads. The agencies say the footbridges are insecure for pedestrians while others have been blocked by hawkers who have erected structures on them. “Hawkers at the footbridges fall under the county government. The county government should remove them to free human mobility,” Kenha assistant director for Corporate Communication Charles Njogu said. In Ngara, hawkers have taken over foot bridges erecting stalls where they sell their wares, Njogu said. NTSA coordinator and manager for safety strategies Samuel Musumba said 60 per cent of deaths on city roads are pedestrians. “I can say 80 per cent of why people do not use footbridges is behavior. But Nairobi is a special case because footbridges are occupied by all manner of people. Muggers, pickpockets, beggars and they are generally insecure,” Musumba said. He cited a footbridge near Muthurwa Market and some on Thika superhighway as dangerous for pedestrians since they are dirty and not have lighting. When contacted, enforcement director at City Hall Peter Mbaya said he had received the complaints and had dispatched a team of inspectorate officers to clear the footbridges. "Yes, we received the complaints and we are happy for that. We urge members of the public to be alerting us that we can act. I have already sent a team in Ngara but we are also planning to delicate a day or two to clear all the footbridges," Mbaya said. The director said deaths are high on Mombasa road – near Imara Daima and Airtel, North Airport Road, Jogoo Road, Thika Superhighway, Landhies Road and the newly upgraded Outer Ring Road. The accidents, he said, happen despite the footbridges, guard rails and traffic marshals including the police stationed on the roads. Two weeks ago, the county Road chief officer Fredrick Karanja said that a least four people are killed on Outering Road each. The road is not marked and footbridges have not been erected. “We have marshals on Mombasa Road near Airtel Shop, we have guard rails on North Airport and footbridges but deaths are still high because people still cross at dangerous points,” Musumba added. Musumba said that lack of pedestrian walkways on most of the city roads and bad habits of Kenyan drivers have also led to the increase in road carnages in the city. Njogu, however, said that Kenha has already muted plans construct more foot bridges on the roads to reduce pedestrian deaths. He said one foot bridge is set to be constructed in Witeithie, Thika. Already the construction of 11 footbridges on Outer Ring Road has started. “We will have another constructed at the Garden City and the Kenya school of monetary studies. The contractor is mobilizing equipment and work will start anytime,” he