African Boxing Union president Houcine Houichi are now contemplating stern action against local promoters and some Commission members for exploiting local boxers.
Houichi, from Tunisia, said the infamous trend has since adversely affected the standards of the bare-chested game in Kenya thus reducing promising pugilists to paupers.
“We shall surely take drastic action against those officials who continue ruining our good game,” Houichi said. “We can’t continue sweeping things under the carpet then assume it’s business as usual. Kenya used to produce very good boxers but due to several malpractices, things have only come from bad to worse,” he said.
Houichi, who is also the World Boxing Council (WBC) Vice President, was speaking at a Nairobi Hotel yesterday when he announced the second edition of the referee and judges course which will take place at KICC from today to tomorrow. The WBC course, which is the second after the initial one held in Tunisia, has brought together 100 ring officials from all over African continent. It will feature francophone and anglophone nations.
Houichi said successful candidates will be handed certificates to enable them officiate at international level. Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) officials couldn’t comemt on the issue either but Houichi stauchly admitted there was a major problem.
“It’s a shame that some boxers are taken for overseas fights and their promoters end up taking the lion’s share of the purse. This has to stop,” said Houichi.
KPBC chairman Hilalry Alila said that they will announce the date for elections soon following the expiry of their mandate.
In attendance were Africa Commonwealth Boxing Director Reuben Ndolo and WBC accredited referee trainees Guido Cavalieri and Massimo Darrovechio from Italy.
Today and tomorrow there will be a referees and judges seminar at the KICC.
“The ring officials seminar under WBC is very important for Africa. After this, officials from Africa will have a chance to officiate in world titles,” continued Houichi.
Ring officials attending the event will also witness a fight pitting Kenya’s Rayton Okwiri against Ugandan former IBF junior middleweight world title holder Kassim ‘The Dream’ Ouma. Okwiri’s fight will curtain raise an ABU title fight pitting a Tanzanian and a Tunisian boxer.
“I can’t wait for this fight. I have trained hard and I know I will emerge victorious, I’m more stronger and more faster than my last fight in Nairobi so Kassim won’t see me coming,” said an elated Okwiri from his base in the US .
Ugandan opponent Kassim boasts of a record 29 wins, 11 loses and one draw. Ouma has been quick to dismiss Okwiri stating that he has more experience and has been in the game too long to be upset by the new boy in boxing world. “I will turn his lights off, I have been a pro boxer for 20 years,” said a confident Ouma.