President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday urged leaders to emulate Kenneth Matiba's selflessness for better service to Kenyans. Uhuru said the current generation of political leaders are selfish. He described the late multiparty crusader as a hard-working leader who was willing to surrender his desire for personal gains for the prosperity of all. "Mzee was a caring man who was ready to sacrifice to make life
better for others. He was willing to give all his property for the sake
of others. Nowadays everybody is for themselves," Uhuru said. Read : Gideon Moi condoles with Matiba's family at their Limuru home He spoke during Matiba's funeral service at the All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi. "Show
me a man who stands for what Matiba stood for and I will be surprised. I
have lost a father, friend and a mentor," he said. "What can be said about him
cannot be said about others because he has proven a true leadership that
was not scared of handing over, training and mentoring new generation." Uhuru challenges leaders to start mentoring youth for leadership positions in politics and business. He said Matiba was not just a husband and a father, but a man who stood for what Kenya stands for. "He was not intimidated by the youth. He  was always ready to nature and mentor them. Truly, that is a sign of leadership," the President said. Deputy President William Ruto said Matiba made huge personal sacrifices for the sake of democracy that "we are enjoying now". He called on Kenyans to live with the dreams and wishes of Matiba, saying Kenya owes him the multiparty system. "The
rest of us, being younger, were not privileged to serve and know him at
personal level. But we are beneficiaries of his sacrifices. Let us not
waste or squander their efforts in negative ethnicity, but build on their
aspirations for a united Kenya," Ruto said. Ruto asked Kenyans to unite and build a country which all citizens are proud of, saying all the "dreams of our children are valid." "That is the debt we have to pay for those who paid the ultimate price," the DP said. Former Minister Marsden Madoka said Matiba employed him at East African Breweries and tasked him to ensure that there was tribal balance in the company. Also read: Matiba to be cremated as he wished "He hated tribalism. He was hardworking nationalist," Madoka said. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and DP Ruto's wife Rachel were among hundreds of mourners who attended the memorial service. Others were former President Mwai Kibaki, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen and Interior CS Fred
Matiang’i. NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula also attended. Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, Narc Kenya's Martha
Karua and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko were also at the church. Click here for the latest political news