Out-going AFC Leopards stand-in Dennis Kitambi begins his quest to leave a lasting legacy at the den when his side host Zoo Kericho at Machakos Stadium today. Kitambi tendered his resignation on Tuesday as he clears the path for a coaching job in Bangladesh and is hopeful that he will leave the Kenyan giants better than he found them when he took over the reigns last month following the controversial departure of the then head coach, Robert matano. The Tanzanian will be with the team until May 8, giving club chairman Dan mule and his executive ample time to get themselves a replacement. Since his elevation to the rank of head coach albeit on interim basis, Kitambi has led Leopards to four wins, a draw and a loss. Club secretary general, Oscar Igaidah, said: “He will be in charge until we unveil a new coach next month. He resigned last week but we requested him to hang on for transition purposes and we are glad he agreed. The boys are ready for the match against Zoo with the exception of Marvin Omondi and Abdallah Salim, who are out injured. We have no salary arrears and I would request Kenyans to treat the news doing rounds that players absconded training as mere rumours. I can confirm that we are yet to pay winning bonuses but it shall be cleared in due course.” The televised clash will later pave way for a clash between ninth-placed Kariobangi Sharks against bottom-placed Nakumatt, who are rumored to have a new sponsor. Tomorrow, struggling pair of Tusker and Vihiga United lock horns at Ruaraka Stadium as they seek to arrest their poor run in the top flight. Tusker have won two matches so far while Vihiga have tasted victory once in 10 matches. At the same venue, John Baraza will oversee his first match as Sofapaka head coach against Sony Sugar following the resignation of Ugandan Sam Ssimbwa. Baraza, who starred for the side in his playing days, will return to the touchline for the second time after his first stint in 2016. The former Kenyan international was elevated to the position of stand in coach as long serving midfielder Hillary Echesa was appointed the team manager. He faces a test from Sony who also appointed Sylvester Wanyama as their coach after Salim Babu was axed for posting unsatisfactory results. Days after being named as the coach of the month (February), Francis Kimanzi will rally his charges in facing Posta Rangers at Camp Toyoyo. Under Kimanzi Mathare have defied odds to sit at the top of the standings with 23 points and will be out to extend the gap between them and Gor Mahia who are not in action this weekend to four points. The match will bring two experienced coaches who won the league during their heydays and in their coaching careers who will employ different tactics in a bid to win the bragging rights. Kimanzi is known for his passing and attacking game while Sammy Omollo ‘Pamzo’ is identified with his faultless defending. Pamzo will be pleased to have Dennis Mukaisi back in the squad after missing in the past nine encounters due to injury. After succumbing 1-0 to Gor Mahia,Wazito travel to face hosts Chemelil Sugar aiming to dissolve the Sugar Millers who are ranked eighth with 13 points. Miles away in Sudi Stadium,10th placed Nzoia Sugar will host a visiting Bandari who have mustered the art of defending in their nine matches they have conceded four goals. The confidence gained by Thika United following their 2-1 victory over Sofapaka in their last match will be highly relied on when they tackle sixth placed Ulinzi Stars at Afraha Stadium. Thika pinned Sofapaka to their maiden victory of the season and will be seeking their second at the expense of the Soldiers who played Bandari to a 1-1 all draw in their last match.