City Hall has ordered matatus to vacate the CBD in 10 days in a decongestion move that is likely to cause standoff with public transport sector players. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane has asked commuters to prepare to walk. Matatu operators have promised to stay put and threatened to ground public transport should the county stop them from entering the city centre. Dagane on Tuesday said the city was choking with traffic. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Dagane said City Hall has taken over the management of nine matatus termini outside the CBD to be used by the matatus. Previous attempts to relocate the matatus from the CBD failed because there were no alternatives terminals. “Perhaps you may be asking how commuters will make it to the CBD. You walk. That is the best option. It is healthier,” Dagane said. Dagane said NYS buses will ferry commuters from the terminals to the city centre. NYS recently deployed 27 buses to ply estate-DBC routes. "The buses will cease plying the estate routes and instead ferry commuters from the terminals to the city centre," Dagane said. The notice to bar matatus from entering the CBD was gazetted on May 24, last year. Attempts to implement the notice have not been successful. In September last year, Governor Mike Sonko was forced to suspend an order which sought to bar matatus from operating in the city centre. The suspension followed a backlash with sector players. According to Dagane, matatus from Thika Road, Limuru Road and Kiambu Road will terminate their journeys at Murang'a Road A and B, Ngara and Desai Road service lane termini. Those from Langata Road, Ngong Road and Mombasa Road will end at the Railways Bus Station while those from Jogoo Road will terminate at Muthurwa and Hakati Bus Stations. Commuters from Wayaiki Way will alight at the Westlands stage. Matatu Welfare Association chairman Simon Mbugua dared City Hall to bar matatus from accessing the CBD. He said they will paralyse public transport countrywide if the order is implemented. “You cannot ambush people. The termini they are talking about cannot hold even 100 vehicles. They do not have streetlights, shades and they lack basic amenities like toilets," Mbugua said. Dagane said matatus will not be allowed to take more than 30 minutes at a terminus to avoid congestion. “I know there will be challenges here and there, but we must do it. We are working with the national government to alleviate the suffering of the common man," Dagane said. He said billions of shillings are lost every year due to traffic jam. “What happens on the current termini is wrong. They have been turned into parking bays. They have become holding grounds for matatus. That is not what we want. They should be picking and go,” he said. City Hall has partnered with traffic police to ensure a smooth implementation. The county already has 100 traffic marshals on standby with another 300 to be recruited. "They will be stationed at the new termini to ensure matatus do not stay there beyond the stipulated time," Dagane said. Dagane asked matatu saccos to ensure they identify their stands at the respective termini and ensure smooth flow of fleet. “The saccos should ensure they do not have more than two or three vehicles at the terminus at once," Dagane said.