Jubilee rebel MP Sila Tiren has again taken on Deputy President William Ruto and Treasury CS Henry Rotich, accusing them of lying to farmers that they would have been paid by last week for the maize they delivered to the NCPB. The MP said he wonders how DP Ruto and other leaders would ask for votes from the same farmers 2022, yet the Jubilee government is still frustrating them. Tiren said he had been heavily criticized by Senator Kipchumba Murkomen after telling DP Ruto to address farmers' issues before talking about 2022 election. “I did not say anything bad because both the DP and CS Rotich said publicly that farmers would be paid by last week. Nothing has happened yet,” Tiren said. He spoke at Elgeyo Saw mills, on the Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet border. Tiren said farmers, who are demanding Sh5 billion from the government are frustrated, and that although agriculture is one of the four pillars in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, he was not tackling issues affecting the farmers. Hundreds of the farmers have withdrawn their maize from queues at the National Cereals and Produce Board depots in the the North Rift region after the government failed to release Sh2.5 billion, which Ruto promised would be paid out last week. More than 500 lorries were queuing at the depots and more than half of them have been withdrawn as farmers fear that the government may not pay them anytime soon. Some of the farmers had already signed government commitment forms, indicating that if allowed to deliver their maize, then they will not demand for payment until after three months. “If there is a time farmers have been frustrated, then it’s this year. What is happening has demoralized most of them. Some have now been forced to take back home their maize,” director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said. The Sh2.5 billion promised by Ruto was to be part of the Sh5 billion the NCPB owes farmers since December last year for more than 3.8 million bags. Ruto had said the cash would be given to the NCPB but farmers have expressed disappointment that the money was not paid. Tiren has faulted the government for lying to farmers over the release of the money. “As I said last week, the money will not be released because the government is now used to lying to farmers and I wonder how they will come back to ask for votes from the farmers.”, said Tiren. The MP said the government had been contradicting itself by promising payment while at the same time asking farmers to sign forms indicating they will be paid in the next financial year.