After scoring his maiden goal in the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) Nzoia Sugar’s rising star Patrick Otieno has set his sights on being the club’s top scorer. Otieno, a form three student at Bukembe High School, came off the bench to score Nzoia’s winning goal against Sofapaka on Wednesday, putting his name among the youngest scorer’s in the country’s national championship. The rookie was summoned to replace an injured Edgar Nzano in the first half and his inclusion bore fruits nine minutes towards the final whistle where he pounced on a loose ball in the Sofapaka’s box to put it past a well beaten Mathias Kigonya. Otieno said his dream is to become the club’s top scorer despite getting limited playing time. Bargaining for a starting role for the youngster remains an uphill task as the club boasts of current league top scorer Elvis Rupia and seasoned striker, Morven Otinya, who are privileged to take football as a full time job. Otieno said: “I want to be the club’s top scorer this season despite getting less time on the pitch. I am excited to have scored my first goal in the league and I believe if handed more playing time, I can maintain the scoring spree. There is a lot of competition for places in the club and I am glad the coach gives chances fairly thus we can express ourselves on the pitch. I knew I was playing against experienced players but I had the composure and maintained a good focus.” “I have set aside time for school and my club respects the fact that I am still a student. They normally seek my services during the weekend and this gives me the opportunity to concentrate on my studies during the weekdays. I am happy for my family and the school for the support they offer and I am looking forward to take football professionally once I wrap my studies,” he added. Meanwhile, Vihiga United striker Chris Masinza was left purring after his sole strike not only lifted his club off the relegation zone but ended Ulinzi Stars’ unbeaten home run this season. “It was a very special moment for me and the team in particular that we managed to get a win away form home against a very strong side. We hope this victory will kick start our season as we seek to make our loyal fans proud,” said Masinza. A cagey affair that saw both sides create enough chances ended in the visitors’ favour after a late lapse in defence allowed Masinza to sneak in and slot the ball past an unguarded James Saruni. “We have been practicing this move in training and we hope we can continue to implement what the coaches say because this is the only way to deliver good results. We have very experienced players in our squad and what we need now is consistency,” the forward added. Click here for the latest political news