Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has said she is not afraid of any politician in the county and will not be intimidated. Speaking at Kagio town on Wednesday when she commissioned the construction of a parking for 81 vehicles, Waiguru blamed a politician she did not name for paying youth to heckle her during Deputy President William Ruto’s tour of Kirinyaga on Friday last week. Waiguru told the police to arrest the youths who heckled her and their financiers. Time for politicking is over and it is time for elected leaders to deliver on their campaign pledges. “I am battle-hardened at the national level, who doesn’t know that? she said. Waiguru who was flanked by more than 10 MCAs and Senator Charles Kibiru said wrangling would scare way investors and hurt the county’s economy. She urged all leaders in the county to work together to spur development, instead of fighting yet the next election is more than four years away. Sh20m for youth sacco “We finished the election last year. Let my opponents meet me in the ballot in 2022. I’m ready to face them when I seek re-election,’’ she said. Waiguru said the county government will set aside Sh20 million for a youth sacco that will loan start up capital for small businesses to uplift living standards. Central Kenya regional coordinator Wilson Njega warned that no one is above the law. Kibiru said as Kirinyaga leaders they are united and firmly behind Waiguru. He told politicians to focus on improviong the lives of their constituents. During the Friday mayhem at Gakoigo in Kirinyaga Central, youth who appeared drunk shouted down Waiguru when the DP invited her to make a speech. On Saturday, Waiguru accused Woman Rep Wangui Ngirici and her husband Andrew Ngirici for paying youth to heckle and humiliate her in front of the DP. On Monday, Ngirici said she is not to blame. I am not involved in Waiguru’s misfortunes. Speaking to the Star, Ngirichi told Waiguru to deliver her election promises and stop sideshows. She is eyeing the governor’s seat. At the same time, MCAs led by majority leader James Murango and Kagio Business Community supported Waiguru on Wednesday. “The time for elections is over. We need to join hands with the governor and develop Kirinyaga,” Murango said in Kagio town.