As heads of state and leaders from 53
Commonwealth countries gather in London this week for the Commonwealth Summit,
it is worth remembering that one in three of the world’s 1.8 billion young
people aged between 15-29 live in a Commonwealth country. More than 60 per cent of the Commonwealth’s
population of 2.4 billion is aged 29 or under. In sub-Saharan Africa,
host to 19 Commonwealth countries, from founder member South Africa to newest
members Mozambique and Rwanda, 77 per cent of the population is under 35   The
Commonwealth Summit in London provides a unique platform for the voices of
young people across the Commonwealth to be heard. Closer home here in Kenya, where more than
one in five Kenyans are between 15-24 years old, and Kenya’s population of 48
million today is set to double to 100m by 2050, the British Council is
launching fresh research on the hopes, fears and aspirations of young Kenyans
in the Next Generation Kenya Report. The Next Generation Kenya Report finds Kenya’s
youth highly aspirational, deeply passionate about their country and eager to contribute
to its future. Ninety-one per cent of those interviewed in a national household
survey conducted by Ipsos claim to love their country. Like young people around
the world, they hold strong views and are keen for their opinions to be heard,
heeded, and more importantly, acted upon. They are a generation anxious to use
their talents, creativity and entrepreneurial drive to propel Kenya’s economy
to new heights, and at the same time, build a more inclusive and equitable
future for all Kenyans. While 62 per cent of young people believe their
generation’s lives are better than those of their parent’s generation, and 81
per cent see their future in Kenya, 71 per cent said they would be willing to
relocate to other countries in search of better opportunities. Kenya’s Next Generation is, however, a
generation not without fears and concerns. They are lucid in articulating the challenges
young people have to navigate in order to exercise their agency. Education, the
most powerful tool we have to change our world, as the wise Nelson Mandela reminded
us, is seen as a vital necessity for the Next Generation in Kenya. And yet,
there are grave concerns that the education young people are accessing, in
increasingly large numbers, may be falling short in equipping them with the
skills, knowledge and behaviours needed to thrive in the 21st
century. Employment and under-employment preoccupy this committed Next Generation.
Seventy per cent of young people fortunate enough to have found work find
themselves in precarious and low-quality jobs. Pervasive corruption, and what
young people describe as a ‘broken system’, is felt to be holding back their promise
and potential. The Next Generation expressed discomfort about being forced to
perpetuate a system based on patronage. 
Violence and gender inequality are also thwarting their progress. Above
all, Kenya’s Next Generation are crying out for greater support in helping them
chart a brighter future for a country they are both passionate about, and
deeply committed to. Africa has been called the last young
continent. As the Next Generation Kenya report makes abundantly clear, Kenya has
a unique window of opportunity to harness what demographer David E Bloom has
called a demographic dividend: A burst of prosperity, lasting a decade or more,
brought on by the creativity, talent and energy of so many young people,
entrepreneurs and productive workers. Countries such as Kenya can reap this
dividend if government policies have readied the country’s workforce with the
proper education, infrastructure, and policies to fulfil their economic
potential. Bloom argues “demography isn’t destiny”. Governments have the power
to seize the moment. Kenya’s youth are ready to use their agency to realise
this potential, to harness a youth dividend. Listening to the voices of young
people is crucial if Kenya is to avoid the flip-side, and far less palatable
scenario, of a demographic disaster. No one wants to see the most educated,
talented, globally connected and optimistic generation ever, have their hopes
squandered through lack of opportunity — leading to growing resentment and
diversion of their energy into more destructive, destabilising activities.
Kenya’s aspirational Next Generation is crying out to steer their country
towards a brighter and more equitable future. In commissioning this Next Generation Kenya
Research, the British Council is renewing its commitment to work with young
people, partners and stakeholders across Kenya, to support the changes being
called for by Kenya’s passionate Next Generation and to press for policies that
harness the full potential of Kenya’s talented Next Generation. Tony Reilly, OBE Country Director, British Council Kenya