President Uhuru Kenyatta has eulogised founding father of multiparty democracy Kenneth Matiba as a true Kenyan patriot. Through a televised speech from State House, Kenyatta said the late Matiba was not only a role model to many but a mentor to him. "His loss will not be easily forgotten as he fought to make Kenya a better place. His role in the fight for multiparty democracy of forward ever backward never helped transform our country to what it is today.Those who knew him can attest that he was selfless leader.” Kenyatta said Matiba died at a Karen hospital while undergoing treatment at the age of 85. His body has been taken to Lee Funeral Home. Read : Kenneth Matiba is dead In 1960 he worked as a high school teacher at Kangaru high school and 1961 he was promoted to work as officer in the Education Ministry. After this short stint, he served as a permanent secretary in the ministries of commerce, transport, communication, health, cultural and social services. He was also among the pioneering Kenyan enterprenuers with diverse interests in the hotel and tourism industry. "The cruel hand of the death has robbed as a role model, mentor who served this country and her people with distinction. His accomplishment clearly demonstrates that determinations pays." Kenyatta added. Opposition leader noted that the country has lost the last living symbol of the fight for democracy. "It is hardly where we intended or ought to be, but certainly better than where we were at this time over 20 years ago, thanks to the sacrifices of Hon. Matiba and his team." Raila said in a statement. Muranga governor Mwangi wa Iria said that he will remember him as the epitome of leadership. "His legacy can't be extinguished as his contribution towards the making of our second republic is invaluable and immeasurable. He dared to dream. And went a notch higher to actualize the dreams. This at the expense of not just his material wealth but most importantly personal health. " Also read : 'Uncle Ken' Matiba burnt his voter's card in fight for democracy Click here for the latest political news   