When history books are written about US President Donald Trump, one common thread will be the inescapable conclusion that this is a story about a D student school-yard bully, with no depth or learning ability, who somehow made it to the White House, and one unlike any the country seen before. Some of the ills Trump is committing are superficial and even comical to have any lasting effect beyond the day he leaves office. Others, however, are destined to have long-lasting and damaging effects such as his relentless attack on the rule of law and the American justice system. It’s an unprecedented attack on what Trump and his team refer to as a “Deep State” or a “secret society” within the FBI, and a conspiracy of judges, courts, and intelligence officials, who have allegedly banded together to bring down his administration. The reality, however, is the White House and the Trump campaign are under investigation by a Special Counsel over allegations that the 2016 presidential campaign colluded with Russia in an effort to influence the election’s outcome, and that since his inauguration, Trump has engaged in a systematic effort to obstruct justice. Put another way, and to most observers, Trump’s actions amount to a massive campaign to obstruct justice, one of the counts that Robert Mueller is charged with looking into. As one notable media outlet has aptly put it, “Never before in American political history — not during Watergate, not during the Iran/Contra investigation in the 1980s, and not during the 1990s special prosecutor’s investigation of Whitewater — has a president so openly challenged the legitimacy of the entire justice system.” The unprecedented attacks have gotten so viciously worse that Trump via his notorious Twitter account called the US Justice Department and FBI an “embarrassment to our country”, Take a moment to reflect on that: Which president would say that about two of its most noble and respected law enforcement institutions? Only Trump and rest assured, you’ll never hear those words from the lips of any US president, ever. Before Trump expanded his unprecedented attacks to include virtually all national security and law enforcement institutions, his target was the Judiciary. This during the campaign, when he attacked and name called judges presiding over cases he was a defendant. Never mind that the judge, in one particular case, had done nothing wrong and his only condemnable sin, according to Trump, was his heritage — being Hispanic; an attack which in itself was an extension of the xenophobia that formed the basis, and Trump rode in part to be where he is today and with no shame. President Uhuru Kenyatta briefly toyed with the notion of attacking the Judiciary and even threatened to “deal” with Chief Justice David Maraga and the other justices after the nullification of his election. However, it seems Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has picked up where Uhuru left off, going by the his Trump-like appearance before the National Assembly Security and Administration Committee. Among other things, the CS charged that there’s an “evil clique” of judges in the Judiciary but tabled no evidence of such. This is an extremely unfortunate turn of events for Matiang’I, who had outstanding public rating for his performance in the Education ministry. He should have counted his blessings in that we had nothing close to what we have had in the past in as far as that measure goes. He would have done himself and the country good by helping the President and his administration to bring healing, not plowing head on into the past where impunity reigned. He has time to reverse course and do just that.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States