The Seven Forks power dams are yet to fill up even though thousands of people have been displaced by a swollen Tana River. The power stations - Masinga, Kamburu, Gitaru, Kandaruma and Kiambere - are on the lower valleys of Tana River. Kenya’s hydropower stations have had a total installed capacity of 677.3 MW. Operations manager Julius Odumbe yesterday said the water level at Masinga is more than seven metres below optimum. Masinga feeds Kamburu, Kindaruma, Gitaru and Kiambere. Floods that have forced families out of homes has hugely affected the area below Kiambere dam, the last in the chain and currently 10m below its maximum capacity. The flooding takes place downstream and the Kenya Electricity Generation Company engineers have no room to intervene. Tana River is 800km. At least 1,800 people have been marooned by floods in Tana River, with Bura and Tana Delta subcounties the worst hit. Some of the most desperate families spend nights on trees and rooftops as they waiot for food aid and emergency services. The reports also show there is a humanitarian crisis in the county, with more than 20,000 displaced by floods. Most have found refuge in camps. The Kenya Red Cross says rescue operations are ongoing in Tana Delta, where about 200 families spend nights on rooftops and trees. Tana River County Red Cross Coordinator Jarred Bombe said, “We are currently evacuating those who have been marooned in Tana Delta. The camps are congested due to the huge population.” Crocodile attacks have been reported in Tana Delta where a man was reportedly attacked while trying to wade acrossthe floods to safety. The crocodiles, that are currently swimming upstream and into flooded villages, were spotted last week when the River Tana broke its banks. Death toll has risen to six, with the most recent death being of a National Youth Serviceman who was swept away by floods while trying to cross a flooded section of the broken Bura-Madogo Road. That section has so far claimed three lives in less than two weeks. Meanwhile, property valued at millions of shillings was destroyed on Monday as floods swept through Kwathambi estate in Imenti North near Meru town. Firefighters from Meru county were forced to intervene. A trader, Vitalis Ontita, said all his business machines and tools were swept away. Zainab Mwari on Wednesday said, “I ask our local leaders to intervene and even form a disaster emergency fund to help the affected people who have nothing. Our houses were submerged due to heavy floods. There are very small culverts across the highway that cannot cope with a lot of water.” The residents last week demonstrated over poor and impassable roads, and accused MP Rahim Dawood and Governor Kiraitu Murungi of neglect. MCA Paul Bagine (Ntima West) said he has contracted engineers to remove the accumulated silt and unblock culverts. Meru county assembly Deputy Speaker Elias Murega said he is preparing a motion that will give counties the mandate of unclogging drainage systems regularly and even creating a budget for the civil works.