The Inspector General Joseph Boinnet has been exonerated of a civil jail after the Supreme Court dismissed an application against him over contempt. The Supreme court Judges led by Chief justice David Maraga, Mohammed Ibrahim, J. Ojwang and Smokin Wanjala in their ruling said the application filed by two Iranians Ahmad Mohammed and Sayeed Mansour acquitted of terrorism charges did not find Boinnet in contempt. “We are unconvinced that the allegations of contempt of court have been proved to the required standard. In as much as the respondents are convinced that their liberties, as contained in the constitution, are being infringed and they impute willfulness and bad faith on the part of the applicant, such inferences have been rebutted by demonstrating that he did what was sincerely believed to be in accordance with the court order”, the judges ruled. CJ Maraga noted that Boinnet was categorical that if the two Iranians were not held, they would leave the country for good, something not in accordance with the courts order. The CJ dismissed the application and disinclined to issue stay of hearing for Boinnet’s notice of motion dated February 19, 2018. The court also noted the submissions of senior counsel Ahmed Nassir representing the respondents who said that it would be exemplary for the rule of law, for the Iranians to be set free, leave the country and return rather than continue being held in custody. The judges however ruled that the “courts order did not allow the release of the two Iranians and it would therefore render the proceedings utterly nugatory if they were set free. Courts do not act in vain” Last month the Iranians filed contempt of court proceedings against Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet at the Supreme Court. Mohammed and Mansour, whose 15- year jail term was quashed by the Appeal Court, claimed they were held in police cells against orders of the highest court. The two were initially jailed for 15 years after being convicted of concealing 15kg of RDX explosives they allegedly planned to use to bomb the Israeli Embassy in Nairobi six years ago. Chief Justice Maraga had ordered that the two be held in custody in a manner that is in accordance with the law without violation of their rights pending an application by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) seeking to quash their release. Mohammed and Monsour filed the contempt-of-court proceedings against Boinnet alleging that they were held in a police cell in a deplorable condition in contempt of their rights enshrined in the Constitution The two had also challenged their continued detention in custody since January 26 without any charges being leveled against them. Click here for the latest political news