Telkom women’s team will have to work extra hard if they are to reclaim their Africa Cup of Club Championship title. Coach Jos Openda said teams in Africa and especially those from the west have made remarkable growth and if nothing is done, they risk being reduced to whipping girls. Openda sentiment comes after Telkom failed to defend their title going down to hosts Ghana Revenue Authority 0-1 in the finals of the just concluded Africa Cup of Club Championship in Ghana over the weekend. The 2016 Coach of the Year, who spoke on arrival from the host nation yesterday morning, said the country has to improve sports standards if they are to survive the next decade. “This can only be achieved if we play competitive friendly matches against good teams not only in Africa but also around the world,” he said, adding: “I take full responsibility of Telkom’s failure to defend the title for sixth time and it’s sad. However, we have to raise up again and shine not only locally but also internationally.” He added: “We just have to bounce back. It’s true we are not doing good at the national level competitions if our performance of last year’s Africa Cup of Nation is anything to go by. This development trickles down to the clubs because they are the feeders for the national teams. We need to raise our bar and go back to our winning ways.” The national teams (men and women) finished in the fourth positions respectively in the Five Nation tournament held in Egypt. The tactician said going forward, they will have to focus on their forward department. “We lost a lot of chances in the competitions and we will have to sharpen it. We have already bagged the local league title a record 20th time but on paper, we have two more matches and we want to finish it on high and start to prepare ourselves ahead the new season and the Africa Club show, which will be held in Nigeria later in the year. Our objective is to reclaim the title.” On his part, Strathmore University coach Meshack Senge, whose side finished in the fifth in the six nation event, said their focus is to finish in respectable position in the league. “Of course we picked a lot of positives from the event and we hope to be a better side in the next event. We also hope to perform well in the remaining league matches,” said Openda. Click here for the latest political stories