Papa Dennis, one of the most celebrated and hardworking artistes in
the country, is a true testament to how one one can start from nothing
and end up being among the most sought-after musicians. He's
even considered among the richest musicians in Kenya, considering how
much money he spends to release music and pay for collabos. Speaking
of collabos, the singer has worked with some of the biggest artistes in
Africa, including Chidinma, Korede Bello, Tonzi and Christina Shusho. In an interview with KISS FM's Adelle Onyango and Shaffie Weru, Papa Dennis explained how he goes about working with these big artistes. He
said, "Connection inapatikana kama mkona team, team ndio inafanya
unakutana na wale wasee then tunafanya kazi pamoja. Kitu moja people
should know is that bila team itakua ngumu kwako sana wewe kufikia
management ya wale wasanii wakubwa, so management ndio inafanya nakutana
na wale wasanii na kuwork pamoja." His career has grown tremendously over the years, and one would think he comes from a rich family,
but that's not the case. He has had his very own fair share of struggles. After his mother died, he had to drop out of school to hustle so
that his twin brother could continue with his studies. "My real
name is Dennis Mwangi, from Matunda. Nimesomea pale, mashida zimenikumba
nikiwa pale, nimehustle hadi Kisumu. Kisumu, nilikua nauza manguo, kichungi,
blanketi, yaani mali kwa mali na pia nilikua nauza ladies' panties.
Wakati nilijoin Class 8 ndio mama yangu alifiriki, so kuendelea na
shule ilikua hard sana. So nikasema bro yangu hawezi kaa free or at
home, lazima niende nihustle nimtafutie pesa aende amalize form 4. So
nilihustle nikiwa mdogo, nikaingia kazi, nimeuza line za simu after hapo
nikapatana na mzee anaitwa Mambo alafu akaniandika kazi. Kidogo kidogo,
nikafungua biashara yangu ya kuuza panties za wanawake," he said. Having gone through so much to make ends meet and to survive, did he ever think of quitting? "Kuna
time nakumbuka ilifika pahali nikafikiria sana, nikasema sijui niende
wapi lakini kitu moja niliomba Mungu, nikamwambia Mungu nisaidie najua
kila kitu kitawezekana kwako na hapo ndio nilifunga shughuli mingi
nikasema kama ni marafiki wanaeza fanya niingie kwa mambo mabaya, wacha
nicancel, I just work for my life to work. Na vile nilifunga hizo
shughuli, nikajua God ananipenda na nina weza kuenda mbali nikiwork
hard. Sasa nikasema I have to work hard and stop thinking about other
things. In life, mara mingi marafiki ndio huwa wanapoteza watu,
wanakueka kwa njia mbaya. Even when I became Papa Dennis, some of the
people I called friends were misleading me, telling me to live my
management. And I said I won't leave my management just because someone
tells me to, I'd rather leave that friend."