County speakers should administer harsh punishments to rogue MCAs in order to restore dignity to the assemblies, Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda has said. He said the speakers should use the Powers and Privilege Committee to discipline mannerless leaders. "It is upon the county assembly speakers to remain steadfast in ensuring that their members are always in order," Ochanda said. Recently, MCAs in different county assemblies have been in the headlines
for the wrong reasons, triggering a public uproar over their conduct. Fifteen Nairobi MCAs were on Monday night arrested following a misunderstanding with Fly540 management at the JKIA. The MCAs were on their way to Mombasa for an investors' meeting when
they disagreed with the airline after one of their colleagues delayed. More on this: 15 Nairobi MCAs arrested after quarrel with Fly540 crew On Tuesday, Murang'a MCAs for the third time came to blows following their differences on change of leadership in the assembly. This happened after a group of county legislators, among them the newly-elected Majority Leader Amos Murigi, attempted to occupy their offices at the assembly premises. Read: [VIDEO] Murang'a MCAs fight for the third time as leadership row deepens Ochanda, in an interview with The Star on Wednesday, asked county assembly speakers to be strict and ensure their members behave honourably. But Siaya speaker George Okode thinks the MCAs' conduct is a personal matter and that each should be held responsible for his or her actions. Okode said its important for MCAs to always remember that they are state officers who are guided by the code of conduct regulations. He added that the code of conduct coupled by leadership and integrity Act is applicable to all state officers both in private and in public. "We have hard instances where MPs, senators and governors have misbehaved but being a personal conduct its only fair that we castigated the individual and not the office they hold," Okode said. Click here for the latest political news