Officers from the elite GSU Recce Squad involved in Linda Boni Operation in Lamu have threatened to down their tools over unpaid risk and hardship allowances. Security officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of victimisation, said each officer is owed Sh226,000 for the eight months they have worked. SACK THREATS “Why should we continue risking our lives fighting al Shabaab, when someone else is pocketing our allowances? one officer said. “Morale is low. That’s why we don’t do anything when we hear of an al Shabaab attack around here. We arrive late, after all why should anyone die for nothing? They are demanding to be moved from Boni Forest, saying their period of duty lapsed in August last year. The officers accused their bosses of threatening to sack them each time they ask to be moved. They had been promised there would be rotation when the operation began. READY TO LOSE JOBS Contacted, Linda Boni Operation director Joseph Kanyiri dismissed the complaints by the officers, terming them petty. Kanyiri said the officers are not entitled to any risk or hardship allowances in as far as he is concerned since they are paid salaries. He lashed at them for being crybabies and told them to stop complaining and work. “It’s not a must for them to get allowances. They are doing the job as per their call. Hardship allowances are featured in their payslips every month,” Kanyiri said. “I don’t understand the allowances they are demanding. They should come forward and explain who promised them such allowances rather than going to the media. It won’t help.” The officers said they are ready to lose their jobs if nothing is done to address their plight. FELT SHORTCHANGED It is unfair that KDF soldiers and NIS officers involved in the operation are paid their allowances on time while we wallow in misery, they said. “We feel shortchanged. We are the only unit in the operation that is being sidelined and denied allowances. We are not recognised. They either move us or we quit,” an officer said. Click here for the latest political stories