    The enigmatic Turkish mullah Nasreddin Hodja went
to the market and a bunch of enthusiasts surrounded him. They began to imitate his
every move. He would make a few steps and the followers would do just the same. He would stop and wave in the air, the followers did
just the same. He would shake hands with imaginary people, jump in the air,
touch his feet, shake his head, make sounds, and the market folk did the exact same
thing. One of Mullah Nasreddin’s friends, a merchant, took him aside and asked
him why all those people were imitating him like that. He responded, “I am a
Sufi Sheikh, these are my murids (spiritual followers) and I am helping them
reach enlightenment.”
  Puzzled, the merchant enquired how exactly
they would achieve enlightenment. The Mullah responded, “That is the easy part!
Every morning I count them. The ones who have left have reached enlightenment!”   MIMING WITH THE MULLAH In Kenyan politics, every politician
has his acknowledged set of murids. They will follow them wherever they go and
do whatever they do, even the stupid things. Ruto has his murids spread all
over the Rift Valley and right across the country.   They
will see no evil or hear no evil about him. He could abuse his office, commit
any Chapter Six crime in broad daylight, yet he will remain their man. And dare
you touch him.  NASA leader Raila Odinga has
his murids in Nyanza and also in many places right across the country. If Baba
did not want to vote, then is murids did not want to vote. Even Jubilee leader
Uhuru Kenyatta has his own set of murids, and when not insulting Raila’s murids
on social media, they are doing it in their political talk. Very few of these murids
will ever attain enlightenment in their lifetime.    ATTAINING THE ENLIGHTENMENT  Kenyan politicians
wake up each morning to count their murids, and, unlike Mullah Nasreddin, they
must ensure none of them ever achieves enlightenment and leaves the pack. The
politicians come up with a new act every now and then, to keep the murids
happily following. The murids are almost always members of the Mullah’s tribe. One
of the proven ways of keeping their murids united, is to give them a common
(tribal or political) enemy. You have the murids unanimously following in the
hatred.  If
perchance one or two murids achieves enlightenment, then they receive a painful
set of barbs not just from the mullah but also from the murids.  Some
though have defied the odds and have achieved enlightenment.  Jubilee secretary general Raphael
Tuju has to be one of those who have attained enlightenment, having stood
against Railapolitik, both under the National Rainbow Coalition and also under
Jubilee. He paid a deep price for it but that, I guess, is the cost of
enlightenment. Another would be NASA strategist David Ndii who has defied his
tribal (Kikuyu) political thinking and is firm in NASA murid. You could throw
in Nairobi woman rep Muthoni Passaris and a (very small) handful of
politicians.   HATING THE ENLIGHTENED We love to hate those who have
attained true enlightenment. Those from our ethnic groups, who support another
political grouping is a deeply hated person. Perhaps it is because they remind
us of our own feebleness and, so, we must hate them. This has been described as
the ‘herd-mentality’ in which we crowd with those of our kind and we vigorously
defend one another in our neck of the woods. When Prof Patrick Lumumba
represented the IEBC during the August 8 presidential petition, he was
disparaged by his own kith and kin for not taking the Baba mime. And such is
politics.  There was a time when we had the
courage of publishing the thinking of a politician towards an enlightened
individual who has escaped their clutches. Some audio or video clips of one
politician hurling brickbats against a former colleague or associate can be
very interesting, especially when they eventually return to the same fold they
had left. And we, the people, join our respective mullahs in hating those they
hate and even physically harassing the liberated murids. I watched with despair
the disparaging of Water CS Eugene Wamalwa at a Vihiga fete on December 26.  The crowds turned hostile against
him, hurling expletives and even stoning his car. The reason was that here was
one liberated murid, who is spoiling the mime.   LOSING THE ENLIGHTMENT It is a difficult thing to work up
to your enlightenment. You must have tonnes of courage to swim against the
current. It almost goes without saying that there are those who have lost their
erstwhile enlightment and returned to mime their tribal mullahs. Miguna Miguna
had attained enlightenment in 2012, when he fell out with Raila Odinga. He gave
us his raw thoughts over the failures of his Mullah in a tell-all book, only to
come back and continue the choreographic mime under him this year. James Orengo
had attained enlightenment in 2002, when he ran for President only to return to
Railapolitik in 2007, when it was clear he could not do without miming
alongside him. Others who lost their enlightenment include Kisumu Governor Prof
Anyang Nyong’o, who once defied the Odinga political machine only to return to
it. Another would have to be Kisumu Speaker Onyango Oloo, who was the TNA
Secretary General in 2013, only to return to the fold he once disparaged. On the Jubilee side, former Bomet
Governor Isaac Rutto had achieved enlightenment from the UhuRuto mime and had
turned his back on the Jubilee juggernaut. He threw his brickbats at his former
coalition members but when he fell at the polls, he crawled back to Jubilee and
is setting himself to (quietly) mime with UhuRuto yet again. You could throw in
nominated Jubilee nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and a dozen of other Jubilee politicians.   CONCENTRIC-RING
THINKING At the end of the day, all politics
is personal. It is about what is in it for me as an individual. This is why we
scramble for the politician’s money whether we like them or not. We will take
their money and vote the person endorsed by the mullah. This phenomenon was
first observed by American sociologist Ernest W
Burgess in 1925. Although
he was primarily interested in urban expansion, his theory may still be applied
to political theory. He stated that towns
expand outward evenly from an original core and each outer zone grows by
gradual habitation into another zone. His theory, which came to be known as the
Concentric-Ring Theory, holds that the value of land will decrease with the
distance from the centre.  If you look at any town, you will
find the value of the land at the CBD much higher than that of the outside. We
as humans think pretty much the same way, the highest value is your own interest which is in the
first ring. The interests of the secondary ring and each subsequent ring
diminish. After
taking care of our own individual interest, we begin to mind that of our
spouse, children, extended family, clan, tribe, region, nation, race, continent
etc. Usually, our tribal mullahs get us at the fourth concentric ring and this
is where we are most vulnerable. As humans, we find safety in numbers and our
safety then begins with the family, then clan and gains greater traction in
tribe. This explains why nearly all the political parties are headed by tribal
mullahs. Nearly all of their members reflect the tribal affiliation of the big
man in the party. To understand this, you look at the majority elected in
certain parties and you will know that we are still in the primordial stages in
democratic development. The situation is further complicated by clan-based
thinking.   KENYA AND CLAN-BASED THINKING I would
have to give it to NASA principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka for defying
opinion and awarding their blood relatives crucial political positions. I kept
thinking about how Norman Magaya must have felt utterly betrayed when his name
did not go far in the EALA nominations. Whether you like him or not, Magaya had
practically underwritten the NASA political agenda - before, during and after
the two elections. He dug the trenches and got his hands dirty in the war
against Jubilee. Kennedy Musyoka, on the other hand, quietly watched from the sidelines,
unable or unwilling to get dirty. The Brookhouse educated young man went to
school in the international curriculum, while his father, as Education minister,
fried our brains with the now-defunct 8-4-4 system. Kalonzo was the Education
minister under Moi in the period between 1998 and 2001, and his then 11-year
old son was doing the IB at that exclusive school in the Karen neighbourhood. Magaya,
on the other hand, was taking the grind with 8-4-4 as were countless other
millions.  Jubilee
would also not be spared of the clan-based thinking when Beth Mugo, Uhuru
Kenyatta’s ageing cousin, was nominated to the Senate in the previous term and
her name also featured in the EALA nominations. Perhaps the politicians are
afraid that their murids might one day get enlightenment. They want murids who
will never be enlightened, because they are family.  