A two-time loser in the Garissa woman representative race Ebla Sahal has been appointed the new chairperson of the county's Public Service Board. Ebla contested the woman rep seat in 2013 and came third. She was fourth in last year's election. She becomes the first woman to be appointed to a senior position in Governor Ali Korane’s administration. Korane said the appointment will enhance service delivery. Addressing the press in his office on Tuesday, Korane also announced the nomination of Abdi Muhumed as county secretary and Mohamed Sheikh as secretary to the board. Yussuf Noor was nominated to become the county deputy secretary. Korane also announced the nomination of three chief officers. Abdullahi Ibrahim was nominated to become the chief officer for Urban Development with Rashid Mohamed (ICT and e-Government) and Abdi Abdullahi (Administration). The nominations are subject to approval by the county assembly. Korane said the appointments were made to address gaps in the county management. “I know there will be a lot of debate regarding these nominations. Our decision was made purely on the need for service delivery,” Korane said. He added: “We make our decisions not on speculation or public opinions or perceptions. I think all that debate was done during the elections and people thought that we can take good care of their interests and make good decisions for them and that is what we are doing,”  He said he had forwarded the names to assembly for vetting. He asked the speaker to recall the assembly to hasten the vetting process. Adding that although the house was in recess, chances were that they might be recalled to come and vet them. Korane said that after reviewing the development initiatives for the llst five years he had realized that there was no proper co-relation in the management of the county’s development. He said that the deputy county secretary will coordinate all the county’s development and ensure that what is implemented is in line with the CIDP.                    