Dozens of Mavoko residents have protested against the National Lands Commission for not listing them in a compensation list for a road project. They were among those to be compensated for land used in the construction of a dual carriageway between Athi River and Machakos turn-off at Kyumbi. The lot said they must be paid since they will be
displaced from their land along Mombasa Road to pave way for the project. They include landlords, traders operating
kiosks, shops, garages, hotels among other businesses along the highway. "We are shocked to be told by NLC officers that we will not be compensated since our names are
not in their list," Harison Mutiso, one of the traders, said. Mutiso addressed the press at Mavoko chief’s office
in Athi River on Friday. This was during the signing of awards by those affected by the
project before actual compensation. The residents wondered why their names were expunged the last minute before the compensation process begins. They said the names had been in NLC and Kenya
National Highways Authority lists since the initial stages of the compensation
process. "I cannot understand why I am told my name is not in
the list while a colleague I work with in my garage will receive
his compensation," Mutiso said on behalf of the affected persons. Eunice Mwanza, another resident, said her business was
among those inspected and valuated by surveyors and contractors a
few months ago. Mwanza said there was no single meeting called by
the project’s stakeholders which she missed. She said it was painful to be told she was not among
those to be compensated by the National Lands Commission. Mwanza said both her kiosk and shop located along
Kinanie Road will be demolished during the project’s implementation. The group said they suspect foul play adding that someone must have deleted their names
from the compensation list. The victims called on the government’s intervention
to ensure they get justice before their properties are demolished. NLC officials, who led the signing of compensation
awards documents, declined to speak to the press on the claims. Click here for the latest political stories       