Benson Gicharu of Kenya Police ‘Chafua Chafua’ has dispelled allegations of favouritism against his strongest and long-standing Kenya Defense Forces rival Isaac Meja in his bantamweight division and assured his fans he’s in amateur game for the long haul. “I’m not about to quit the amateur boxing as I am not finished as yet,” quipped Gicharu. However, beating Meja was not a walk in the park as he had to dig deep on his jabs and hooks to outpoint a stubborn boxer in the hotly contested bantamweight final. “I think people do not analyse entire match proceedings. They tend to only look at the outcome of a single round and end up blaming the judges.  “Today (Saturday) I have beaten my KDF opponent (Meja) fair and square and earned my rightful place in the Gold Coast team. He was tough yes, but I was able to distract his hard hitting antics and carry the day when it really mattered.  “I noticed his defenceless tactics from the word go and went for the kill while also ducking as the bout wore on. The major focus now is Gold Coast. The trials are now done and dusted,” said Gicharu, who booked a place in the provisional Commonwealth Games team. “There has been a talk that computer scoring is my thing on the ring and I’m glad I did it for my City fans and out-punched my opponent. I believe I’m still the toughest in bantamweight division and can only hope for the best with my shoulder injury.” Match wise, Gicharu withstood a serious onslaught by Meja in the first round before turning the tide. However, a left hook in the second round saw Gicharu momentarily sprawling on the canvas. However, the match referee overlooked the standing count when Gicharu was back on his feet. Gicharu then picked himself up again and went in to hand a defenceless Meja a knock down, who survived the count as the former carried the day on 3-0. Boxing experts though felt 2-1 would have been a fair score. “Despite fighting with one hand, owing to shoulder pain, I still feel I have a lot to offer on the amateur front and particularly in bantamweight division. I want to make it 3-3 meaning I have a burning ambition to play in three Olympics and three Commonwealth Games. I have already achieved two appearances on both,” said Gicharu who defeated Meja in the explosive bout of the day. African champion Nick Okoth was the most outstanding boxer on the day in lightweight after seeing off Ethan Maina of Police also 3-0. Among those who cheered Okoth was his elder sibling and Kuala Lumpur 98 Commonwealth Games silver medalist Absalom “Diblo” Okinyi and 1987 Nairobi All Africa Games lightweight gold medalist Patrick “Mont” Waweru.  He bamboozled Maina with heavy shots before booking his place in the provisional squad. In the light heavy final, former Kenya team long-standing middleweight Nick Abaka (KDF) saw off Peter Abuti (Prison) 3-0 to book a place to Gold Coast. Elizabeth Andiego earned a team slot without throwing a single jab when would-be opponent Elizabeth Akinyi failed to show up.  Veronica Mbithe beat Christine Ongare in their fifth successive meeting to land her first call-up to the national team. BAK will announce the final team this week.