The government yesterday launched a crackdown on opposition leaders involved in the swearing-in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday. Last evening police were camping outside Nation Centre claiming they had a court order to arrest NTV’s general manager Linus Kaikai. The reasons for the impending arrest were unclear, but sources said it was because of a statement he made on Monday on behalf of the Editors’ Guild,where he is chairman. Read : TJ Kajwang arrested for administering Raila's oath In the statement, the editors told off State House in its bid to stop the live coverage the swearing-in. The police pounced on Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’ outside the High Court and took him to Nairobi Area police station for questioning. He is expected to be charged today with offences emanating from his role at the oath-taking ceremony. ‘Small’ price to pay On Tuesday night, police looked for Siaya Senator James Orengo and lawyer Miguna Miguna who played a prominent role in the ceremony at Uhuru Park. As Kajwang’ was being interrogated, police teargassed Nasa MPs outside Nairobi Area police headquaters. Kajwang’ said, “I have just been arrested by eight Flying Squad policemen led by a police commissioner identified only as Cheruiyot.” Kajwang’ and Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma were before Justice George Odunga as lawyers for the Public Service Commission in a case involving the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. The contingent waylaid Kajwang’ as he left the courts building. “If my arrest and prosecution will be the ultimate price I must pay for my role in the swearing-in of the People’s President, so be it,” the Ruaraka MP said. He added that it would be a small price to pay compared to what Raila had done for the country. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday said the government closed major TV stations to avert a ‘looming massacre’ that could have been triggered by the live coverage of Raila’s oath-taking. Media stations, apart from KBC and K24, were shut down by the Communications Authority on Tuesday morning as they started airing the ceremony. Also read : Duly elected my foot, Raila says of Uhuru's presidency Security breach Citizen, NTV, KTN and Inooro TV will remain shut until investigations are completed, Matiang’i said. The government also cited a serious security breach. In a press briefing outside his Harambee House office, Matiang’i said mainstream media disregarded the state’s advice in covering Raila’s ceremony, which he said would have led to the death of thousands of Kenyans. Media owners and other actors, he said, had been given a full security situation brief well ahead of the “illegal activities of NASA”. “Unfortunately some media houses chose to disregard this advice, their Code of Ethics, self-regulation and the moral responsibility of every Kenyan to safeguard the security of their fellow citizens,” Matiang’i said. The CS said media houses’ decision to air the ceremony left the state with no choice but to shut them down. Citizen TV was the first to be switched off on Tuesday at 10am, followed by NTV. At the time, KTN was still streaming live from Uhuru Park. It did not take long before their airwaves were disconnected. The Communication Authority cut off the signals in Limuru which affected radio stations. The shutdown did not deter Kenyans from following the swearing-in as the majority accessed other airwaves and live feeds on the internet. Attempt to overthrow government? Matiang’i said the government has started investigations around the swearing-in. Co-conspirators and facilitators will also be investigated and legal action taken. The government will prefer appropriate administrative measures on a need by need basis. “What was witnessed at Uhuru Park was a well-choreographed attempt to subvert or overthrow the legally constituted Government of Kenya,” the CS said. Police will continue to perform their duties in protecting lives and properties of all Kenyans, regardless of their political affiliation. “I want to thank Kenyans, especially the residents of Nairobi, for their resilience and peaceful conduct, despite the spirited efforts by NASA and specifically the prescribed armed militia operating under the banner of NRM, to incite them into tribal divisions, violence and possible massacre,” the CS said. The media shutdown has attracted criticism from civil rights groups. The International Centre for Policy and Conflict has termed as dictatorial the government’s move to shut down the independent houses. Click here for the latest political news