Former senator cum Jubilee politician Hassan Omar wants a judge hearing his petition against governor Hassan Joho step down over biasness. Omar has accused Judge Lydia Achode of open biasness and ignorance. Omar said Achode had displayed double standards when treating applications made by parties. He said the ju8dge accepted to hear and grant applications by Joho but then refused to even hear those he filed. Through his lawyer Yusuf Abubakar ,OMar said the presiding judge has given open latitude to Joho advocates when cross-examining him and his witnesses but restricted his advocate when examining Joho and his witnesses. He further noted Achode had demonstrated that she will grant petitioners prayers for scrutinizing of ballot papers even before the application was heard. Omar cites an example of when Achode allowed an application question illegibility of stamps by the commissioner of oaths which further poked holes on documents obtained from IEBC on a hard drive. Omar said this was a deliberate attempt by the judge to undermine the core of the qualitative analysis of gubernatorial elections. The former senator accused Achode of taking him back to the Moi-era years where judges ruled that an applicant to personally serve a respondent,a move which was aimed at trying to erect technical barriers. He questioned on why the judge declined to grant them orders compelling IEBC to vanish them with for 37A after making a preliminary prayer. He said this act to deny them basic election materials despite their prayers and further move to strike out some of their evidence was clear indication of biasness. Omar further noted that Achode entertained litany of irrelevant questions from Joho and IEBC lawyers despite pleading for intervention. He revealed that the lawyers went ahead to question his level of education yet when a similar question of education was asked to Joho but the court defended him from answering. “It is with this that am convinced that the judge has not acted to interest of justice,has misconducted by acting outside the law and been evidently been mischievous,”he said.      