Opposition leader Raila Odinga has thanked Kenyans who overwhelmingly wished him happy birthday as he turned 73. The opposition chief said the wishes from Kenyans across the country filled his heart with immense joy. Raila, who is championing for electoral justice, celebrated his birthday by addressing rallies and meetings in Kakamega. "I have been overwhelmed by the huge number of warm birthday wishes which have filled me with immense joy. I thank the Almighty for seeing me through this far. Thank you all very much from the bottom of my heart, asanteni sana," Raila said on his twitter page. A section of Jubilee party politicians were among Kenyans who for some reason buried their political discord to wish Raila happy birthday. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said, "May our good Allah grant you health and prosperous life to see many more years ahead". "Happy birthday @RailaOdinga. I pray that God grants you more years on earth. May the best rays of the sun, shine along your path and may God's palm of favor be placed on your mind, family and heart," said Dennis Itumbi. Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen said, "Happy Birthday @RailaOdinga. I wish you God’s blessings and looong life to see goodness in our land. Politics is boring and too easy without you. Barikiwa!". Raila Junior while terming his father as an incredible father ,Mentor and a leader that Kenyans are looking up to, he said all kenyans appreciate all his struggles. "Dear Baba @RailaOdinga ,We love you ,we appreciate all your struggles.God Bless You," he said. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho led the opposition brigade in wishing their party leader all the best. "Happy Birthday Baba. May the Almighty continue to grant you courage and shower you with blessings as you continue championing for the rights of Kenyans," Joho said. Through #HappyBirthdayRaila, Kenyans wished the ODM leader long life as they praised him for standing for electoral justice in Kenya. "May you live long enough to see incompetent, drunk and thieving despots defeated. God bless you @RailaOdinga," @VKapeen said. @crediblepollske said: "You stood the test of time - miaka tisa jela - you were able to forgive Mzee Moi even after what he did to you, you have a "Big Heart" I wish you #HappyBirthdayRaila." "I would like to wish the enigma @RailaOdinga a blissful birthday. Live long to lead kenya to the 3rd liberation. I wish you life of happiness ahead with abundant God's blessings," @luo_pundit said. @frankmichaelO said: "I would like to wish baba a happy birthday. Everything you have done for Kenya is indelible. You are forever engraved in our history books."