Four Nyanza counties have endorsed NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka’s swearing-in as the People’s President and DP. Homa Bay, Migori, Siaya and Kisumu on Saturday joined other counties which have adopted the People’s Assembly motion, to back the NASA event, which is slated for tomorrow in Uhuru Park, Nairobi. They said the people from the region have advocated freedom, democracy and nationhood, and will not allow the spirit to stumble. In a statement read by Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga, they said they do not recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. “We declare our unwavering support for the swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo as President and Deputy President of the Republic of Kenya and appeal to our people to grace the occasion,” the resolution read. The counties pledged to stand with NASA leaders in pursuit of electoral justice. Without fear or favour, Kenyans and victims of post-poll police brutality must get justice, they said. Rasanga said they will not relent until Raila and Kalonzo take the oath of office to lead Kenya into the future. “It’s a matter of public record that there was no election in Luo-Nyanza on October 26. Instead, our people suffered brutalities. But we state here that it will not go in vain,” he said. The leaders also promised to continue supporting the People’s Assembly, as “it gives us the platform to chart our development agenda.” “We declare that the Luo Nation supports freedom of togetherness and will fully participate in and support the People’s Assembly process for democracy to prevail,” Rasanga read at a convention presided over by Raila, Kalonzo and Musalia Mudavadi. Speakers of the four county assemblies, led by Kisumu’s Onyango Oloo and Siaya’s George Okode, said they approved the establishment of the People’s Assembly because they want to be part of history. Oloo said they want to restore sanity in Kenya’s electoral system. “Raila should have been President today after the August 8 presidential poll. The IEBC is embedded in dirt and needs to be sanitised,” he said. The speakers said Kenya is suffering from state capture and being controlled by a clique, hence Raila and Kalonzo’s oaths are part of the solution to the stalemate. “I fear Kenya is headed for the wrong direction. This is the right time to correct the situation,” Oloo said. David Ndii, who leads the establishment of the People’s Assembly, commended the counties for adopting the idea. He said Luos are the torchbearers of justice in Kenya and have suffered much in the process. Ndii urged them to remain steadfast so they can enjoy the fruits of their struggle. “We want to make electoral justice the heart of Kenya. If we fail, we’ll have communities of rulers and the ruled,” he said.