Cracks have emerged in Jubilee’s Team Nairobi pitting allies of Governor Mike Sonko against those of Senator Johnson Sakaja. Sonko’s team, which includes the majority of Jubilee MCAs, have accused Sakaja’s camp of frustrating and sabotaging the governor. Sonko’s lieutenants say Sakaja has started strategising and campaigning to succeed Sonko in 2022. They say the senator has roped in MPs and some MCAs to frustrate the governor and brand him a failure. But Sakaja’s wing has denied they are the senator’s agents and accused Sonko of not engaging them in the running of the county. This, they say, is contrary to a pre-election agreement the leaders struck. “We agreed that we will be involved and have an input in whatever the county does. But what we have been seeing are unilateral decisions and lack of consultations,” an MP said. MERE ALLEGATIONS Another MP allied to Sakaja, who sought anonymity, said the senator is a smart person, while Sonko is a politically focused leader. Jubilee Nairobi chairman Sanctus Ndegwa said there have been differences and misunderstandings in the team, but the issues were not out of hand. “We cannot be 100 per cent together. Even in a house there are differences. The governor has his mandate and MPs have theirs,” Ndegwa said. Sonko, through deputy director of public communications Elkana Jacob, has dismissed the division claims as mere allegations from people out to divide them. Last week, Starehe MP Charles Njagua, said to be allied to Sakaja, sued Sonko for banning boda boda operators from the CBD. Njagua said the decision was reached without any consultation and the move would render most of the youths jobless. Majority leader Abdi Guyo accused him of interfering with the governor’s work. “MPs should stick to their mandate and allow the governor to do his work. They should not interfere with the governor’s plans to transform the city,” Guyo said. “I am the MP for Starehe. I represent the interest of my people. I am not interfering with anyone’s work. Jubilee is strong and united under its leader, President Uhuru Kenyatta,” Njagua said yesterday. Criticised FOR BAILING BABU Jubilee Team Nairobi delivered 55 out of 105 elective seats in the city. The party won the governor, senator, nine MP and 44 MCA seats. NASA won woman representative, eight MP and 41 MCA seats. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and his Kikuyu counterpart Kimani Ichung’wa attacked Sakaja for securing the release of ODM MP Babu Owino (Embakasi East) who had been locked up at Parklands police station for two days. 