Rogue secondary school principals have introduced illegal levies for parents as schools re-open for the first term today.  Parents yesterday complained some secondary schools have slapped them with lists of core-subject books they should pay for. Head of National Parents Association Nicholas Maiyo said parents should disobey the illegal levies and report the principals. “Parents should not comply. They should insist that the schools follow the guidelines set by the Ministry of Education,” Maiyo told the Star yesterday, without naming the rogue schools.  He said the ministry will provide each secondary student with six books for the core subjects. “Most head teachers have only received three Kenya Literature Bureau books per student. Some are asking parents to pay for the remainder while others say they are waiting for the government to send those remaining,” Maiyo said. The six core subjects are English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics and Biology.  Parents are required to buy text books for the other optional subjects like Geography, Agriculture, History, Religious and Social Sciences.  Parents in day secondary schools were asked not to pay any fees except money for food and uniform. “Any other charges are illegal. And for food, it is an agreement between the parents and the school, they should not be exploited,” Maiyo said. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion refused to comment on the exploitation of parents by principals. “You can take my comments tomorrow [today],” he said. Under the free secondary school education plan, the government will pay Sh22,244 for every student. This means all day secondary schools are free, and parents would only pay for meals and uniform. Parents with children in national and extra-county schools in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Kisumu and Eldoret will pay a maximum Sh53,000. Maximum fee for other boarding secondary schools has been set at Sh40,545. Kenya Secondary School Heads’ Association chairman Kahi Indimuli asked the government to ensure the subsidy funds are released in good time for school operations to run smoothly. The funds will be distributed in three phases; 50 per cent for first term, 30 per cent for second term and 20 per cent for the third term. Speaking to the Star, Kenya Primary School Heads Association national chairman Shem Ndolo said late release of funds hurts operations. Education CS Fred Matiang’i assured the monies are ready and schools should start receiving the first tranche immediately. “Already, the government has set aside Sh56 billion for the programme next year. The import of this is that, from January, no child will be required to pay any tuition fees in any public secondary school,” Matiang’i said last week. Students will also find a raft of changes including the new curriculum, which will be rolled out across all primary schools for learners in Standard One. The term calendar will run for 14 weeks before schools close on April 6. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development says the new curriculum will give every child in Kenya an opportunity to excel. The teachers will also be empowered to approach teaching and assessment in a more effective way to ensure high quality education. The new system will cover nursery schools and standards one, two and three. It places emphasis on continuous assessment tests, commonly know as CATs, not the main exam. In 2019, the system is expected to be rolled out in standard four to six and in 2020 it will cover standards seven, eight and Form One. In 2021, the system will be extended to Form Two only and in the following year it will cover Form Three. In 2023, it will be rolled out in Form Four. Click here for latest political news