Two petitioners have withdrawn a suit in the Environment and Lands Court seeking to stop the relocation of Kachok dumpsite in Kisumu. This is a relief for Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, as moving the dumpsite is one of his flagship projects. Petitioner Fredrick Nyesi filed a notice to withdraw the petition on January 9. Judge SM Kibunja yesterday said there was no petition pending before the court, since the notice had been received and the petition withdrawn.  abandoned quarry “To avoid doubt, the petition filed in this court on December 15 has been withdrawn according to the notice of motion dated January 9,” he said. Kibunja vacated earlier interim orders that temporarily stopped the relocation of the dumpsite to Mamboleo. The Kisumu government, city manager Doris Ombara and Naya Holdings were the respondents. Nyesi and Rose Nyanjong had filed an application seeking conservatory orders restraining the respondents, through their employees or officers, from transferring waste from Kajulu to an abandoned quarry in Mamboleo.  no pending petition The petitioners’ lawyer Moses Omondi had argued that the notice to withdraw the peition was signed by the first petitioner, but the second petitioner would still proceed with it. “The first petitioner gave a notice and did not mention the second petitioner,” he told the court. But the respondents’ lawyers argued there was no petition pending in court. Kibunja said the notice of motion for withdrawal of the petition was written in plural, adding that after looking at a document of authority to act annexed in the petition, Nyajong gave Nyesi the authority to sign the affidavits. “If that is not the position, Nyajong would have filed an affidavit indicating she has a different position from that in the notice of motion for withdrawal,” he said. “Having given her authority to the first petitioner to sign documents related to the petition, the first petitioner cannot come around unless with a specific application, which would have included withdrawing authority given to Nyesi.”  shrouded in secrecy The petition was filed on grounds that the first and second respondents awarded a Sh99 million tender for the relocation of the dumpsite without adhering to the provisions of the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015. They petitioners said it was shrouded in secrecy and no consultation was done with stakeholders. They said an environmental impact assessment was not done.