As a teenager in Bunyala, Port Victoria, the late Prof Calestous Juma was the village fundi. Locals depended on him to repair their spoilt electronics and machines. Unknowingly, this free village service charted a path for him in sciences and innovation that saw him excel in sciences at Port Victoria Primary school and John Osogo High school. He didn't disappoint either as a science teacher after graduating from Egoji Teachers College in 1974. His love for writing soon earned him a job at the Daily Nation in 1978, becoming one of the first science and environment newspaper journalists in Africa. Read : Kenyan Havard professor Calestous Juma is dead From a village technician, science teacher and science journalist, the son of a carpenter, who saw most of his siblings wiped out by malaria, grew to become a renown professor and a leading global voice on research, science and innovation. He was the fourth born in a family of 14 children. Outgrowing the village technician, he became a world icon whose work in science, technology, and environment. He shaped, not only the world research in academia, but also provided ways of sorting out food and development problems. Tomorrow the world lays to rest the towering leader in academia and science, a researcher, a prolific writer and social media guru with who, tickled his huge audience with posts on science and technology. Juma died on December 15 aged 64 after a long illness. Until his death, he was a professor of International development at Harvard Kennedy School as well a director at the Belfer Centre for Science and International Affairs on agricultural innovation. His coffin, covered with an academic gown, was wheeled into Holy Family Basilica yesterday afternoon. Hundreds of Kenyans led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and a host of Cabinet ministers, students and friends joined the family in a requiem mass to mourn the fallen tower of knowledge and innovation. Uhuru described him as a distinguished scholar and patriot. "Our consolation can't match the achievements, but what we can do is emulate virtues of his dedication and persistence that saw his teaching career that started at Egoji and ended up at Harvard," Uhuru said. "He lived a life of humility serving the country, the continent and the world indeed it was exceptionally well lived life," he added. WidowAlison Field said it was a celebration of life fully lived, but cut short by death. "He used to smile, and before you knew it, he cracked a joke. That was his life full of humour. His life was so rich. He has left a huge hole but with a lot of inspiration and lessons of responsibility, dedication, humor and value of knowledge," she said. Chair Committee of Chancellors of Public Universities in Kenya Prof Judith Bahemuka said for the last 30 years Juma worked hard for the universities but never forgot his motherland. Despite the Catholic church's doctrine, they had to cover his casket an academic gown and have top vice chancellors fully dressed in gowns as pallbearers. "The gown on his casket is to give him the highest honours and VCs as pallbearers is a sign of gratitude for his contribution to university education in Kenya," she said remembering him as a man who truly belong to kenya and not ethnic tribe. "It was hard to place him in any part of Kenya. I thought he came from my village in Ukambani or Mombasa, he proved to be a true Kenyan son. It was also hard to categorize him either as a historian, scientists or English literature experts he used to knowledge to serve all spheres of life," she added. John Maina a former student at Harvard between 2008-2009 remembers him as a one of the most humble professor who was full of life and open to assist his students.  "He used to ride a bicycle from his house to the campus. You could walk in his office for consultation anytime any day. he flew economy class every holiday to Kenya. rarely will you find professors of his stature that open and free, most will need their students to book appointments, they will be flying business class and back home flanked with bodyguards. But that was not with Juma," he said. Justice Jackton Ojwang a close friend to the professor described Juma as a man who stuck to the path of development to help humanity through science and technology. Click here for the latest political news