Paragliders have said they will continue taking to the Elgeyo Marakwet skies despite tragic parachute crashes that have left three people dead over the last two weeks. Two foreign paragliders died on Tuesday morning in the latest accident. A sombre mood engulfed the Kerio View Resort following news of the death of  Kimberly Ann (39) and Tomas Lednik (46). The resort in Iten accommodates the paragliders and also serves as the take-off point. Ann and Lednik are citizens of the US and Czech Republic respectively. Yesterday, several paragliders took to the skies despite the deaths. A Russian paraglider, who only identified himself Vrajumir, said flying parachutes is addictive. He said many many lovers of the leisure will not hesitate to fly despite the risks. The 47-year-old, who is also a light aircraft pilot, said safety depends on proper equipment, piloting conditions and the mental state. “When you fly under the clouds, you feel the power of nature. That is why it is difficult to stop paragliding,” Vrajumir said. Ann and Lednik were experienced paragliders who have navigated the Kerio escarpment skies for many years. In his Linked In account, Lednik described himself as first class parachute coach who has been flying paragliding wings of all kinds and sizes since 1992. The Czech is said to own a paragliding school in his home country where he also worked as an instructor. Ann was an expert instructor with a 17-year-experience in training paragliders in Elgeyo Marakwet. Keiyo North police boss Mwenda Meme yesterday said they have not received guidance from Kenya Civil Aviation Authority on whether to suspend the leisure flights amid the rising number of tragedies. “KCAA is yet to give guidance. Police are still carrying out investigations,” Meme said. On Tuesday, the paragliders’ canopy folded in the sky, causing the two to fall on rock on the steep, rugged Kerio escarpments. It took more than four hours for the bodies to be removed from the scene as police and residents navigated the thorny thicket and rocks in the snake-infested escarpment.  