Family Bank and its former managers yesterday lost a bid to block their prosecution in relation to the Sh1.6 billion scandal at the National Youth Service. The lender asked the court to intervene and stop the trial pending at the magistrate’s court on the basis that it was punished by the regulator. Justices Alnasir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome dismissed the appeal. They said the court cannot interfere with the mandate bestowed on the Director of Public Prosecution. The three judges said Family Bank failed to prove that the process leading to trial against the bank and its former managers was done in malice and out of legal boundaries. The judges were of the view that even though the banking industry regulator, Central Bank of Kenya, ordered Family Bank to pay a fine of Sh1 million for failing to report suspicious transactions that led to the loss of taxpayers’ money, the DPP cannot be questioned for initiating criminal charges against those he perceived culpable. “Administrative action does not bar criminal prosecution. The mandate to institute criminal prosecution lies with the DPP,” the judges ruled. The bank is facing charges alongside former chief executive Peter Munyiri, Robert Nyagah (senior branch manager), Josephine Wairi (branch customer service supervisor), Meldon Onyango (relations manager), Raphael Ndunda (head of risk and compliance), Charles Thiongo (platinum manager) and Nancy Njambi (large deposits manager). The court had been told their trial amounts to double punishment. The lender said the decision to take it to court was unfair since other banks which dealt with the NYS money did not suffer the same fate. Allegedly, Sh218 million and another Sh252 million was moved from an account registered under Former Builders Limited. This amount, according to the prosecution, was moved through a separate account held by All Trading Limited. Another transaction of Sh320 million was also alleged to have been received from the NYS scandal suspects and placed in the Reinforced Concrete Technologies Limited account.