There has been so much hype and excitement about the forthcoming transport and infrastructure project Lapsset that few people have stopped to think of its impact on the local economies, specifically fishing in Lamu, and on the environment. The project comprises a system of railroads, highways, pipelines, fibre-optic cable and water infrastructure and international airports, and will link the proposed port with Ethiopia and South Sudan. The livelihoods of 166 million people in Kenya, Ethiopia, South Sudan and other East African countries will be affected by Lapsset, full name Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport corridor project. Those in the fishing industry have noted a lack of awareness of the existing frameworks on sustainable development, and a failure by the government to domesticate, harmonise, enact and implement some of these frameworks. Experts say the building and operations of the port will necessitate the cessation of traditional fishing practices in some of the channels heavily relied on by local fishermen. Traditional fishing waters will have to be closed off to a significant number of artisanal fisher persons, who depend on the channel for their livelihood. SEARCH FOR COMPENSATION Fisheries director Simon Komu says artisanal fisher men will now be forced to abandon their trade on the safer channels and struggle to cope with the risky demands in the high seas. He says it will be impossible for the fisher folk to survive the high seas with the simple fishing machinery most rely on. “Bigger and more powerful boats will now be required for excursions into the deep sea. However, the cost of such machinery will be impossible for many to acquire. The trade will slowly die away if no prompt interventions are made,” Komu says. The government has not been forthcoming about plans to cushion the fishermen of Lamu from the economic and social fallout that will result from this development. Fishermen have tried to seek compensation for the impending loss of their traditional fishing avenues without much success. Last year, over 7,000 fishermen sought compensation for the remainder of their lives, in which they will be locked out of the safer fishing waters of the Indian Ocean due to dredging. However, the request was deemed impossible by Sylvester Kasuku, director-general of the Lapsset Corridor Development Authority. He said the fishermen would only receive comparable compensation, in other words, the skills and equipment needed to fish in the deep seas. Kasuku said every single affected fisherperson will also receive a powerful boat engine free of charge from the authority. “We are in talks with the national government, the county government and the Lapsset on the degree of compensation,” Kasuku said. SKILLS GAP Komu says the prevailing assumption is that industrialisation will attract such infrastructural development as to catalyse local job creation. He says years of limited education and skills development have hampered the fisher folk’s ability to adapt to the coming industrial economy. “The project is implicitly premised on the large-scale conversion of the local fisher folk, who are mainly unskilled labourers, to power the anticipated industrial revolution. This is inadequate. The people of Lamu have expressed their desire to participate fully at the forefront of local development,” Komu says. Many feel that the government has not been categorical about practical plans to prepare the labour force to anticipate and adjust accordingly. The major argument is that there is no known roadmap on equipping labourers with vocational and higher technical skills to ensure the scheme yields qualitatively and quantitatively adequate jobs. Komu calls for measures to support the fishing trade by establishing infrastructure such as fish cooling plants, canning factories and good roads. Fisheries department’s Abdalla Haji says fishermen’s technical capacities and financial capabilities should be enhanced to enable them to adjust to more stringent fishing methods, in the event they are forced to relocate from the more sheltered fishing zones to the open sea. Haji calls for measures to prevent fishing zones from being decimated by indiscriminate industrial and shipping activities. “It will only be possible to protect the fishing industry in Lamu if all the fishing zones are gazetted. That way, whatever happens, we can at least be sure that fishermen will still be able to conduct their work with less intrusion,” Haji says. He says the government should also facilitate reclamation of community boat landing sites, many of which he says have been privatised. The stakeholders are of the opinion that, rather than displace the fisheries sector, oil revenues should be employed towards exploiting the currently under-utilised fishing zones of up to 200NM in Kenya’s territorial waters. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Environment department has also raised concerns over possible negative impacts of Lapsset. Environment director Cliff Barkattch says just like with any other project of such magnitude, the government ought to consult the public on protection of the environment, genetic resources and biological diversity. Barkattch says apart from forming strategies that will ensure a clean environment, the government also ought to compensate for environmental damage. “When they clear off mangrove from a place, they should make up by planting others in a different location, so that forest cover doesn’t dwindle,” Barkatch says. When compete, the Lapsset project is likely to lead to large-scale defacement and pollution of the environment. “The oil sector is responsible for the most devastating incidences of pollution. Oil spills make up about 12 per cent of the oil that enters the ocean. Such spills are a localised problem but can be catastrophic to local marine wildlife, and are also a direct health concern to humans,” the director says. Barkattch says many oil-producing economies have a particularly special regard for oil because of the colossal economic returns associated with it. Many of them end up walking blindly into the so-called “resource curse”. The director urges the government to commission a comprehensive environmental and social impact assessment that considers developmental consequences of all aspects of the Lapsset on the environment. Oil companies and the government, he says, should set up a rapid oil spill response mechanism, which must be committed to mitigating and responding to communities in distress due to oil spills. “Nema should also plan to monitor and address environmental degradation and hold violators to account,” Barkattch says. Click here for the latest political news