Lamu residents yesterday said they live in fear of wild animals that invade their farms and homes in search of food and water during the drought. Increasing numbers of lions, buffaloes and hippos are searching for food in Hindi, Sheemgambo, Bobo, Saba Saba, Bargoni, Mpeketoni, Witu, Pandanguo and Kipini. Human-wildlife conflicts have also been on the rise in other parts of the country. Lamu residents want the Kenya Wildlife Service to control movement of dangerous animals before they cause any harm, especially to schoolchildren. “We’re so worried. These animals could cause deaths very soon. We’re usually unaware of their presence until we stumble upon one. That’s dangerous and the KWS knows it. Let them do something before someone dies,” Kahindi Ngumbao said. “Many times we are forced to lock ourselves in the house whenever we spot lions, hippos or buffaloes outside our houses.” If no swift action is taken, there could be massive loss of lives and property, Ngumbao said. victims complain of neglect Meanwhile, families that lost relatives to animal attacks complain of neglect and lack of compensation. The families say despite their pleas, including a letter to President Uhuru Kenyatta, nothing has been done. They want agencies to intervene and “wipe our tears”. Lamu Wildlife Victims’ Association chairperson Julius Mwangi yesterday said many families lost their breadwinners and are suffering and struggling to survive. “We’ve been pushing for compensation for years but have yet to get anywhere. The government knows we deserve the compensation. The people we lost were breadwinners and only payout can help victims,” he said.  ministry blamed County Wildlife Compensation Committee chairperson Ali Shebwana yesterday said many families have not been compensated, but said the committee can do nothing about it. He blamed the Environment and Natural Resources ministry “for failing to act responsibly on the matter of compensation for victims”. “It’s not our fault. The ministry hasn’t given us any money to pay all these people. There are so many complaints, but we just don’t have the funds to deal with them. “Once the money is allocated to us, we shall definitely compensate them,” Shebwana said.