Five hundred locals who fled Ishakani village on the Lamu-Somalia border are appealing for food and water. At least 100 al Shabaab militants forced locals out of their homes on Sunday and made them to listen to radicalised teachings for an hour. The militants told residents not to cooperate with the government or accept rides from military and police vehicles. Those who did not adhere to the warning were warned of dire consequences. Residents fled and are putting up in makeshift camps in Kiunga, five kilometres away. Ishakani residents mostly depended on fishing for survival. life is hard The group said life has been hard since they fled. The villagers said they will not go back to their villages until the government deploys enough security officers. They also expressed concern their homes might be broken into. The group also said their livestock might be stolen. “Since we fled and came to Kiunga, we haven’t received any help. We have been on our own. We have no food, no water. We don’t have anything.There’s no fishing here in Kiunga. Our homes have been left unmanned and we are worried that we will be robbed of our property. We couldn’t carry our livestock. The government should act fast,” villager Abud Athmani said. staying with friends Some residents are putting up with friends and family while those who do not have relatives who will take them in have been forced to set up makeshift accommodation as they wait for the situation to improve. “Many have put up makeshift houses using leaves and shrubs. It’s not a good situation for anyone to be in,” villager Fardiya Kassim said. During the Sunday incident, militants brought down the Kenyan flag at a former Kenya Defence Forces mini-camp and erected theirs. There are no security camps in Ishakani. The raid came hours after al Shabaab ambushed a security convoy, killing a civilian woman and injuring five police officers in the Nyongoro area along Lamu- Garsen highway. Two police vehicles were torched during the attack. Boni Enclave Campaign Director Joseph Kanyiri said sufficient measures were taken to eliminate the attackers. 