NASA is forging ahead with the installation of Raila Odinga as the People’s President next Tuesday despite a series of roadblocks the government is throwing in its path. A day after the Attorney General urged the High Court to declare NASA’s People’s Assemblies unlawful and unconstitutional, police are laying elaborate plans to scuttle the swearing-in. Another lobby group, Bunge La Mwananchi, yesterday sought orders in the High Court to stop NASA’s ceremony, arguing that it would cause “a breakdown of law and order with the consequence of loss of life and destruction of property.” The Jubilee axis in Nairobi City County yesterday barred NASA from using historic Uhuru Park for the ceremony on January 30. The county placed a notice in newspapers yesterday, announcing that Uhuru Park will remain closed to any gatherings and meetings until further notice. City Hall claimed the reason was to give the facility a face-lift “in order to enhance recreational usefulness to its visitors”. Some light works were going on yesterday. But defiant NASA leaders said Uhuru Park is a public utility and they would not succumb to what they termed “arm-twisting and blackmail”. “We are exercising civil disobedience, we do not recognise any edicts of the Jubilee government and its appendages, which include this purported notice from Nairobi county. We completely denounce it and will proceed as though there has been no such notice,” NASA Chief Executive Norman Magaya said. Read: No turning back, Raila must take oath of office, says Ndii Also read: 100 MPs sign up to support Raila oathing Police said they will not provide security to an illegitimate exercise. National Police Service Spokesman Charles Owino ridiculed Raila and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, his running mate, for seeking to be sworn in using results of the nullified August 8 poll. “The person the IEBC and the Supreme Court declared and confirmed is President Uhuru Kenyatta, so any other process that comes now in law is illegitimate,” he told the Star yesterday. “We cannot provide security to an illegitimate process. We are officers of the law and work strictly within the law,” Owino said. Despite the looming showdown, NASA was adamant, saying the ceremony will mark the triumph of the people over the police state. “January 30 will mark the day of triumph of the people against the Jubilee junta. This day will demonstrate that the power of the people is greater than the power of the people who are purporting to hold power,” Magaya said. Raila’s former legal aide Miguna Miguna was blunt. “I understand Mungiki are being trained in Kiambu county to come and attack people at Uhuru Park, presumably to forcefully circumcise Luos and members of other ethnic communities. This is my message to NASA supporters: you have a right to self-defence,” Miguna told a press conference in Nairobi yesterday. Police would not say whether they will forcibly disperse the gathering, wherever it occurs. On December 17, an estimated 18 people died when police violently disrupted Raila’s homecoming caravan from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport after a week-long tour of the US. Initially, there were reports that a church and a group posing as the Nairobi Business Community, allied to prominent Jubilee leaders, had applied to use Uhuru Park on the same day. NASA says it will marshal one million people to attend the ceremony, using its elected leaders — though it’s  doubtful the park can accommodate so many. Yesterday NASA People’s Assembly Secretariat head Dr Noah Akala maintained they will not change their venue. “We are not changing the venue because we never announced the venue in the first place,” he told the Star. He condemned the parallel event said to be planned by a group he called criminals allowed to operate freely in Nairobi. “If a criminal organisation is allowed by the state to perambulate within our capital city unchecked, then we have no choice but to advise our supporters to take necessary measures to ensure their own personal security,” he said. More on this: [AUDIO] Raila escalates oath plan, says will run government from exile Also see: UN sent Obasanjo to stop Raila oath, quell political tension Assemblies By targetting the People’s Assemblies, Attorney General Githu Muigai has struck at the heart of Raila’s political machine. NASA’s think tank says county People’s Assemblies and the National People’s Assembly threaten President Uhuru Kenyatta’s grip on power and are the only viable route for the Opposition’s protracted battle for ‘electoral justice’. Motions establishing the controversial People’s Assemblies have been passed by 14 county assemblies controlled by NASA. They state that they do not recognise Kenyatta as the legitimate President. On October 31 last year, Raila called the People’s Assembly the vehicle through which NASA “will exercise the solemn duty of restoring democracy, constitutionalism and the rule of law”. Raila aide Akala pledged that the coalition will not allow Jubilee to negate the Bill of Rights, including freedom of assembly. “The only requirement [to have a meeting] is to issue notification to the police within 24 hours of an event, according to the Public Order Act. We are still within that time frame and the people should take it easy,” Akala told the Star. In court papers filed on Monday,  Muigai said People’s Assemblies violate the Constitution as they involve “spending of public resources on unlawful activities”, contrary to the Public Finance Management Act. “The term is alien to the Constitution and is neither established within the framework of the County Government’s Act nor any other legislation. Establishment of assemblies is also not envisioned within the mandate or function of County Assemblies or indeed County Governments,” his petition reads. The petition will be heard next Tuesday, when NASA is to convene the National Constituent Assembly. Its highlight is the swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo. This is the second attempt to block the assemblies. On December 20, the High Court sitting in Kitui issued temporary orders stopping county assemblies countrywide from discussing or adopting the People’s Assembly motions. That order stalled adoption of the motion in some NASA-controlled counties including Nyamira, Kisii and Turkana. Yesterday, National Assembly Minority Leader John Mbadi denounced the Attorney General, saying he was becoming  a Jubilee activist to protect his job. He is also ODM chairman. “His job is under threat. I don’t think we have an AG. It’s debatable whether we have a Cabinet,” Mbadi said. The AG’s role is to uphold the rule of law and public interest. Mbadi asked, “Which public interest is he protecting in court? The public interest or the Jubilee interest? Is he Attorney General of Jubilee or the Republic of Kenya?” Click here for the latest political stories