Police are investigating a pastor cum director of a Murang'a children's home who has been accused of sexually exploiting an 18-year-old girl. The victim said the pastor took advantage of her poor background to force into having sex with him several times. She said the "man of God" had promised to pay her school fees and transfer her from a day to a boarding secondary. The girl said the pastor visited their home in December and told her mother that he would help her access bursary funds. She narrated on Thursday how he forced her into sexual intercourse "numerous times", inside his church and at the children's home. The girl said she had been living at the home since she was six years old and left when the pastor started making sexual advances four years later. Her mother said she went to the home on December 23, 2017 and stayed there for several days after the pastor pledged to help her join the boarding school. She explained what had transpired after going back home, the mother said, noting it was unfortunate that the pastor took advantage of their poverty to exploit her daughter. "I have really struggled to raise my five children since the death of my husband who was a casual labourer. I keep asking myself why the pastor chose to do that to my fourth born daughter." The girl said: "He took advantage of my poverty to abuse me and did not help me." Charles Maina, who is Kangema sub-county children's officer, and the deputy county commissioner said they received the complaints through the chief. Maina said police started investigating but noted the sensitivity of the matter as the pastor cares for other children. He said the facility will be closed should the allegations be proven. DCC William Lenaremo said the claims raised concerns among residents and that stern action will be taken if the pastor is found guilty. "The girl will join a new school this week as we conduct investigations," Lenaremo said, adding the Area Advisory Committee will visit the home to establish if the children are safe. The administrator said the pastor refuted the claims and blamed people whom he said were after his home. Related: Woman accuses SDA pastor of sexual harassment Click here for the latest political news 