A week after the Star revealed how aircraft operators at Wilson and the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport flout cargo carriage rules, nothing has changed. Business continues as usual, with the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority uninterested in dealing with a problem that has the potential to affect KQ’s expected direct flights to the United States. Air Operator Certificate holders who provide freight services blatantly disregard regulations that guide cargo carriage. Every aircraft has its own operation guidelines, contained in the Aircraft Flight Manual by the manufacturer. Changes to the use of the aircraft must get the manufacturer’s approval which comes with a certificate showing the change of design. None of the passenger aircraft that carry cargo at Wilson and JKIA have the requisite supplementary certificate to do so. BLACKLISTED The International Civil Aviation Organisation will be in Kenya for an audit in July, amid concerns that the country may fail and get blacklisted like Uganda. The ICAO banned all planes registered in Uganda for safety reasons. Kenya could face the same fate if the current situation is not corrected. Any blacklisting will directly affect Kenya’s planned launch for direct flights to the US. OFFENCE ACKNOWLEDGED According to Kenya Civil Aviation Authority regulations, it is an offence for airlines to use passenger flights to carry cargo in the cabin.  Neither are cargo planes allowed to carry passengers without approval by KCAA and the manufacturer of the aircraft. KCAA director general Macharia Kibe has previously acknowledged that their operators do not observe the regulations. In a letter addressed to airlines, Kibe lamented the disregard for rules, saying it was an offence for operators to use passenger aircraft for carrying cargo.  “It has been observed there has been disregard of the law and the regulations as regards the carriage of cargo by aircraft by Air Operator Certificate holders that provide freight services,” Kibe said in the letter dated December 18, 2017. But airline operators, especially those flying across the country and to Mogadishu, continued to disregard the cargo carriage regulations. For instance, a South African registered aircraft has, for months now, been removing seats and carrying cargo in the cabin. The aircraft, a Beechcraft 19000 D, registration ZS-SRZ, has removed seats to create room for cargo in the cabin without meeting the regulations. PILOT AT RISK According to industry experts, these aircraft do not have smoke and fire detectors and nets to secure the cargo. It thus puts the pilot’s life at risk “By removing the seats, you have changed the characteristic of the aircraft and its centre of gravity,” said a pilot at Wilson, who did not want to be named. The changes also affect weight distribution because there are no markings to show how much luggage is in what part of the aircraft. “This change affects the stability of an aircraft and makes an accident inevitable,” added the pilot. Click here for the latest political news