Murang’a farmers will get instant solutions to their agricultural problems on phone, by way of an online networking platform. Through the 'We Farm’ platform, farmers will ask questions on farming practices by SMSs and get replies immediately. The platform enhances the flow of information from experts to farmers who are members. Read: Farmers to get real time info in new app According to Jamila Abass, the country co-coordinator for 'We Farm', the platform compensates for the low number of extension officers available in the country. Abass said the officers and experts in the sector ave been brought together to assist farmers. Speaking during a training at Kenol town in Maragua on Tuesday, she noted one extension officer currently serves more than 600 farmers so quality of produce is compromised. “The platform encourages free flow of information from experts to farmers and consequently improves farming methods." Abass said farmers are only required to register in the platform to be able to get information for free. Farmers are then grouped in line with their activities which include livestock, fish and poultry farming or horticulture. Once a farmer sends a message through the platform, it is automatically sent to all members involved in the same practice. Answers are given and experts use the platform to elaborate. “This forum has made it possible for farmers to exchange ideas on farming and get help from experts,” Abass said. She noted that the forum has been of great help to farmers affected by the fall army worm as they are able to get solutions from their counterparts in regions that were hit first. “Farmers from Western have more experience with the worm and are able to guide those from other regions on how to handle the menace,” she said. The platform, she said, currently serves more than 20,000 farmers across country but the target is 100,000/ Abass urged farmers to take advantage of the free service to improve their practices and boost yields. Murang’a South agricultural officer John Waihenya noted extension officers struggle to reach all farmers who require their services due to their small number. Waihenya said the introduction of 'We Farm' complements their efforts at a faster and cheaper pace. “Access to information is paramount because only then are farmers able to improve their practices and learn how to deal with disease outbreaks in animals and crops," he said and urged farmers to start using the platform. Click here for the lastest political news 