Some 391 cases of child abuse were reported between October and December last year. A recent report released by Childline Kenya said the most frequently reported abuse was child neglect at 116 cases, followed by physical abuse and sexual abuse at 100 and 76 respectively. Since 2006, Childline Kenya has been running a 24-hour National Child Helpline 116 that allows Kenyans to report child abuse. The immediate family members were reported to be the greatest culprits of child neglect and physical abuse. Neighbours came in second at 63 cases, with most of them falling under sexual abuse at 33 cases. Childline Kenya senior management team leader Martha Sunda and legal officer Joy Kitunge said December reported the highest number at 164 cases, followed by October and November at 135 and 92. Nairobi continues to take the lead with 75 forms of abuse reported from October to December last year. Children aged between six and 10 seemed to have faced the highest risk of being abused, followed by those within the 11-15 bracket. The organisation also received and handled 17 cases seeking information and counselling on matters of sexuality. Because of the anonymity of the helpline, Sunda said children request for information on HIV-Aids, masturbation, pornography and reproductive health. The children are provided with information and counselled depending on the issues raised, she said. The 116 helpline further received 60 calls from children, who wanted information on education and career. Sunda said 51 children wanted help on how they could improve on their studies. Nine cases were reported about children being in conflict with their school authorities. “Mostly, these were parents who called on behalf of their children who were in conflict with school authority and sought to know what they could do. We, however, urged them to seek audience with the school authority and, if need be, escalate the case to the education office for intervention,” Sunda said. The organisation works in partnership with other child protection actors — both state and non-state agencies. Between October and December, 972 referrals were made to the government agencies and 27 cases to non-state agencies. Of those, 144 cases were referred to the Children’s Court, 121 to the police, two to Nacada and five to the Nairobi Women’s Hospital Gender Violence Recovery Centre. The helpline also received 49,103 prank calls.