Kenya will be looking for an improved bowling show against West Indies when the two sides clash in their last preliminary match of the 2018 ICC U19 Cricket World Cup this morning. Just like their Kenyan opponents, the defending champions have been thoroughly embarrassed in their previous two opening matches of the campaign, going down to hosts New Zealand and South Africa, ending their chances of retaining the title. Coach Jimmy Kamande said his players are high on confidence despite losing their opening matches to South Africa and New Zealand. “The team is in pretty good stead. We realised small things that went wrong in our bowling in our previous matches here. Apart from that everything went as per plans. We probably go with same team with slight improvement in bowling,” Kamande said from New Zealand. From only two innings, Kenya have conceded 777 runs — the highest in the history of the ICC U19 CWC. “The bowlers need to vary their bowling and be able to read the batsmen strength and make the necessary adjustments. South Africa and New Zealand batsmen were able to adjust their batting after realizing that our bowlers were not making any adjustments and went on to attack us,” he said. “I think I will make a few changes but that will depend with the condition of the pitch. “We have to look at the wicket tomorrow but I am sure we will make one or two changes,” said Kamande. He is likely to give Maxwell Ager a starting spot after the seamer missed out on the other matches. He defended his omission from the two losses saying the ball wasn’t swinging much thus his exclusion from the team. “There is no much swing on the wickets here thus need to adjust the bowling. It’s just unfortunate that he was affected but I am sure he will play,” he said. On Renne Were opening the batting, Kamande said: “We need a left/right hand batsman. As much as it has not worked, I am confident to say that is the best openers we could have for this tournament.” Despite being knocked out of the campaign after the twin losses, West Indies are still considered favourites to win the match and finish third ahead of the plate quarterfinals. With this in mind, it’s highly doubtable that West Indies will make huge changes to their squad that has gone down twice so far. The Caribbean side will have to give their best in the match against a kenyan side that entered the history books for all the bad reasons. Against New Zealand, Jimmy Kamande side lost by 243 runs which turned out to be the biggest in Under 19 ODIs. New Zealand opener Jakob Bhula’s 180 from 144 balls was the highest individual score ever at the tournament as New Zealand claimed the second highest team total in tournament history. Abhishekh Chidambaran’s spell of 0/82 had the highest economy rate of any spell of more than five overs in U19 ODIs.