It was a day to forget for Kenyan players in the International Tennis Federation (ITF) East African 18 and under Junior circuit tournament staged at Nairobi Club where the home players crushed out after losing their first round matches. The unseeded players, who were seeking to join the seeded players in the second round found the going tough in their first attempt, losing their singles duels to end their dream of advancing to the second round. Derrick Ominde narrowly lost 7-5, 6-2 to USA’s Nikhil Niranjan in a game characterised by exchange of serves by the two left-handed players. The two had to put up with the humid conditions currently being experienced in Nairobi as they employed all tricks in book in a bid to undo each other. Ominde broke his opponents serve in the opening game of the first set, taking a 2-0 lead. He bagged the third game but could not maintain the same tempo in the fourth, which he conceded to the American. Niranjan pulled one more to trail Ominde by a sole game but the home player was victorious in the subsequent two games for a 5-2 lead. Mistakes in handling backhand returns by Ominde proved costly as he lost the remaining games of the set to bitterly lose the first set. The home boy could only afford a paltry two games in the final set and consequently lost his first leg title ambitions. Ominde vowed to come back stronger in the second leg, noting that he had picked valuable lessons from the match. “It was an equally contested match. I had my own strengths and he had his. I have picked lessons from today’s match and I will come back stronger in the second leg,” he said. Another Kenyan Brandon Sagala lost 6-1, 6-0 to Algeria’s Samir Hamza Reguig. Following the loss, Sagala said he had shifted gears to the doubles and the forthcoming second leg set for next week. “It was a tough match. I lost to one of the best players in the tournament. I just want to concentrate on the doubles, where I and my partner have a collective ambition if reaching quarters. I can say balancing school and tennis has affected my form but I will be working hard to regain my fitness.” In the girls category, Ananya Vartak of Great Britain humiliated home girl Gabriella Miheso 6-0, 6-0. Despite the humiliation by foreign players, Kenya will be relieved the shame by the seeded players who will kick off their campaign today in the second round. The tournament’s ninth seed Ryan Randiek will tackle Ethiopian national Yabets Kebede in the second round and has expressed confidence to win the match. “I have played him before and this time I expect a tougher match. I am sure he wants to win just the way I want to win. I am confident of advancing further in the tournament and getting more points for my ranking.” Tenth seeded player Albert Njogu is set to play Wood Enrico of Italy. In the girls’ category, Kenya will be represented by second seed Sheha Kotecha who will confront Elragabi Layia of Egypt.