The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Ltd has threatened to recover an astronomical Sh10.1 billion from its customers on alleged backdated bills. KPLC is classified as a strategic parastatal in the Energy sector and every succeeding government since our Independence in 1963 has maintained tight control on its leadership. During the regime of President Daniel arap Moi, KPLC shamelessly siphoned off billions from taxpayers to prop up the fledgling government. Its senior executives were not left out in feathering their financial nests and some are currently the subject of an extradition order to the Isle of Jersey. The amounts held in their off-shore accounts are simply mind-boggling. Keen observers on the activities of KPLC have noted a nexus between presidential and general elections and an accompanying spike or inflation in customer bills. It happened in 2007, 2013 and now in 2017. The executive in KPLC, including the chairman, are carefully nominated by the government in power, ostensibly to protect their interests. An “election” is then held to legalise these nominations through bloc-voting. The same applies in other strategic parastatals like Kengen and Kenya Airways. These are the men and women who are swift to return the favour by government during elections by overbilling customers nationally and delivering the bacon to government. They appear to have returned the favour fabulously in 2017, as KPLC alone appears to have forked over billions, which they now intend to surcharge customers through the back door. The methodology and amounts used by KPLC in 2017 were the crudest and highest ever. Overbilling, reduction in units, malfunctioning equipment, quality of electricity, poor customer care, bill adjustments, unexplained fluctuating tariffs, standard charges exceeding the value of actual electricity and standing amounts deducted from some accounts are the order of the day. Their management, ensconced in a utopian comfort zone, attempted to “backdate bills” amounting to Sh10.1 billion. Mercifully one patriotic Kenyan, Apollo Mboya, has placed a roadblock in their way. He has filed a class action suit against KPLC accusing the electricity distributor of abusing its monopoly and dominance. He also seeks a declaration that the monopoly enjoyed by KPLC is unconstitutional and an injunction barring them from recovering Sh10.1 billion. It is no secret that KPLC has made false or misleading representation with respect to electricity tariffs and bills to its customers, thereby infringing on customer/consumer rights between October and December 2017. Several consumers have aired their frustration and indignation on social media platforms in this respect. As former President Mwai Kibaki once said, stealing/rigging should at least be intelligent. What KPLC is currently attempting amounts to daylight robbery by attempting to insult the intelligence of their consumers! It comes second only to the National Youth Service scandal, where public funds were carted away from banks in gunny bags. The Energy CS ought to answer some serious questions and relinquish his position without further delay. KPLC should place their bill where it belongs and that is at the doorstep of the Jubilee Party. They must not attempt to declare it a bad debt in their next balance sheet as Kenyans are now educated, informed and vigilant. It is an immoral insult for KPLC to finance the Jubilee Party to secure an election, then send a bill to all Kenyans, including the opposition NASA members. This is an unacceptable proposal, which will be resisted vigorously nationwide as it is the height of political bad manners. NASA, in its push for electoral reform, ought to include parastatal reform, particularly in the energy sector. These are currently run like private enterprises, with the CEOs wielding draconian powers. Corruption is endemic, systemic and widespread. The directors are carefully and specifically hand-picked by the powers that be to push hidden agenda(s). These include but are not restricted to KPLC, Kengen, Kenya Pipeline Company, Geothermal Development Company, Kenya Nuclear Electricity Board, National Oil and the Rural Electrification Authority.