South Africans went into a frenzy when President Uhuru Kenyatta arrived for the 106th anniversary celebrations of the African National Congress on Saturday. Thousands of members filled Buffalo City Stadium in the industrial town of East London for the colorful event. President Jacob Zuma and DP Cyril Ramaphosa, who is the party's leader, were also accorded grand welcomes. Ramaphosa noted Uhuru's visit clearly indicated the two countries want to work together to grow their economies. “The economy of Kenya cannot succeed if the economy of South Africa fails, and the economy of South Africa cannot succeed if Kenya’s economy fails," he said.  ANC party members during celebrations to mark its 106th anniversary, January 13, 2018. /PSCU  ANC party members during celebrations to mark its 106th anniversary, January 13, 2018. /PSCU He further said the visit will strengthen the bonds among citizens of the two countries and the ruling parties. “President Kenyatta and the Jubilee delegation are here to express fraternal relations between the people of the two countries." Uhuru attended the event with Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe and secretary general Raphael Tuju. Ramaphosa said Zuma's country has a lot to learn from Kenya, especially in the agriculture sector, which he termed well developed. “By modernising agricultural production and developing a substantial pool of skills, we would not only improve food security but also develop agro-processing, the manufacture of agricultural inputs and increase exports." Related: South Africa to target investment, corruption under ANC's Ramaphosa  Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and Jacob Zuma during ANC's 106th anniversary celebrations at Buffalo City Stadium in the industrial town of East London, January 13, 2018. /PSCU   While calling for the unity of the party, he noted ANC has produced many people who spent their adult lives in service to the people of South Africa. The DP said 2018 has been dedicated to the remembrance of liberation hero and party leader Nelson Mandela, who would be 100 this year. Mandela died in 2013 at the age of 95. “He is one of the greatest leaders South Africa has ever produced and whose fame has spread across the globe." In recognition of the service the veteran gave and his role in the leadership of South Africa and the world, ANC declared 2018 the 'Year of renewal, unity and jobs'. Ramaphosa and his team were elected last month and will lead the ANC to the elections in April next year. Click here for the latest political news