The economy is expected to bounce back this year, with a projected growth of 5.6 per cent and 6.2 per cent in 2019. Last year, the economy faced a slowdown due to subdued credit growth caused by caps on commercial banks’ lending rates, drought, and the prolonged political impasse over the presidential election. Real GDP growth declined to an estimated five per cent while inflation increased to an estimated 8.8 per cent as the budget deficit remained high,and current account deficit increased to 5.9 per cent of GDP. African Development Bank in its African Economic Outlook 2018 says East Africa is the fastest-growing sub-region in Africa, with estimated growth of 5.6 per cent in 2017, up from 4.9 per cent in 2016. Growth is expected to remain buoyant, reaching 5.9 percent in 2018 and 6.1 percent  in 2019. The study indicates strong growth widespread in the sub region, with Kenya, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda growing 5 per-cent or more. Private consumption has been identified one of the most important drivers of growth in Comoros and Kenya. The Country’s economy, according to AEO, has remained resilient due to its diversity and being the leading regional hub for information and communication technology, financial, and transportation services. Recent investment in rail, road and planned investment in a second runway at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) were named as the potential growth drivers. The country’s high debt has however put the economy at the risk of turbulence. Currently, the debt stands at Sh4 trillion, 13 percentage points above IMF’s recommended benchmark for emerging countries. And going by the global rating agency, Moodys Investors Service, Kenya’s rising debt is set to hit 60 percent of the Gross Domestic Product by June 2018. It was attributed to the projected rise of high primary deficits and borrowing costs. A $750 million (Sh7.6 billion) syndicated loan borrowed in 2015 was due for repayment last year, the $2 billion Euro bond matures in 2024, further exerting pressure on economy.