Marakwet peace coordinators have urged political leaders to engage bandits directly instead of holding rallies to restore peace in Kerio Valley. Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo leaders began joint peace rallies on Friday, following cross-border attacks and cattle theft that left seven people dead and 960 animals stolen. The politicians include Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, MPs David Pkosing (Pokot South), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), William Kamket (Tiaty), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) and William Kisang (Marakwet West). Others include Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria) and woman representatives Lilian Tomitom (West Pokot), Jane Chebaibai (Elgeyo-Marakwet) and Gladwel Cheruiyot (Baringo). But peace coordinators led by Richard Kayab said leaders were meeting law abiding citizens in trade centres instead of talking to bandits who spend time in bushes. “Our leaders are using the wrong approach. They should talk to bandits directly before holding peace rallies with the general public,” Kayab said. He noted a long lasting solution to the perennial attacks will be achieved when bandits are listened to. “Bandits don’t come from the moon. They are our brothers and sisters and there is need to reform them." Six people were killed when suspected Marakwet bandits raided a Pokot village in Chesegon on the West Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border, sparking a fierce gun battle. One man was killed six days later, occasioning the peace rallies. Meanwhile, authorities in the Kerio Valley have said an uneasy calm has returned even as stolen livestock remain in the hands of brazen bandits. Marakwet East deputy county commissioner Stephen Sangolo said security has been beefed up as leaders continue to hold talks aimed at recovering the stolen livestock. Sangolo added schools and public facilities in the area have been offered 24-hour security. The leaders held peace meetings at Kamelei, Chesegon, Sangach, Chepkokoch Chesongoch and Kolowa. Murkomen asked governors from the three counties to establish a department and allocate funds that will facilitate the efforts local peace committees. “We know the security docket belongs to the national government but these counties have no other options since they have to ensure peace to attract investors,” Murkomen said. Click here for the latest political news