In four years, self-sponsored undergraduate programmes could completely be scrapped if all students sitting the KCSE exam continue to get government sponsorship. Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service announced 70,073 students who scored a mean grade of C+ ( 46 points) and above in last year’s KCSE exam could apply to join public and private universities for government-sponsored degree courses. In 2016, public universities absorbed all the 88,929 candidates who scored between A and C+, which has left private universities with no qualified student to admit, unless selected students opt for private institutions. imminent job losses The self-sponsored courses contribute the largest university funding to both private and public universities. Educationist Prof Douglas Odhiambo said the impact of lack of parallel programmes will be job losses for both academic and subordinate staff. “Expect closure of satellite campuses, mostly private universities will be hard hit and also universities could lower the tuition fees to attract students,” Odhiambo said. Students who have completed diploma courses and want to do degrees and those proceeding for postgraduate courses will be the main source of revenue for universities. “Undergraduate courses happen to be the biggest enrolment that universities had invested in and most universities have at least six or seven faculties for undergraduate studies, but have very few for diploma and postgraduate courses,” Odhiambo said. He said universities should restructure and make their programmes attractive and competitive to remain relevant. “Some could survive, including Strathmore and Kenya School of Monetary Studies, but a sizeable number that have relied on leftovers will have to fold,” he added. According to the Commission for University education, public universities have spent massive resources, most of it borrowed, to set up hundreds of satellite campuses to cater for the demand for higher education. Students who scored C-plain and hoped to join universities either through Module II (parallel programme) or enrol in private institutions have been shut out of degree programs after early indications that the cut-off points for selection into various courses will not be lowered. Simon Gicharu, chairman of Mt Kenya University, said the situation had pushed privately-run institutions are aggressively marketing themselves unlike in the past. “With the number of people qualifying for university dwindling, we are looking at enhancing our degree programs as well as improving on diploma and certificate courses to be able to attract students.”