The law does not support what the NASA team wants to do. They know very well that when someone is sworn in as President, you must first be declared the winner by the IEBC chairman. The registrar of the Supreme Court should preside over the swearing-in of the President-elect and the Deputy President-elect in the presence of the Chief Justice. If indeed that is what will happen on January 30, then we will have two centres of power. Read But if the IEBC and the Supreme Court will not have a say in NASA leader Raila Odinga’s swearing-in, then the entire event will be illegal. The person sworn in as President becomes the Commander-in-Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces. Will this be applicable after Raila’s swearing-in? After that kind of an illegality, there are proper measures that will be taken in accordance with the Constitution. Why is the Christian clergy not condemning NASA supporters who bandy around the Bible for Raila’s intentions? Why use the holy book to threaten to swear-in Raila? Their silence over this issue has really surprised me. The agenda of Raila is to fight the economy of this country because once he is sworn in, then some people will consider him as their President, cause mayhem and affect the economy. He is precipitating civil disobedience by trying to create another arm of leadership. If it is true that the former Prime Minister is a reformist, then he must accept that, in politics, there are always losers and winners. President Uhuru Kenyatta won and he lost. Raila has a sizeable number of followers in this nation, but, at the end of the day, he did not win the Presidency. If indeed Raila does not recognize Uhuru as President, why is he calling for dialogue with him? How do you negotiate with someone that you do not recognize? Well, Uhuru and Raila should find a way of talking so that Raila does not go through this way of civil disobedience. If Raila had won the election and the things he is doing now were done to him, how would he feel? Tomorrow, it might be vice-versa and he would find himself in the same situation that Uhuru is in currently. If he continues with this plan, he will face the same Judiciary he ran to in challenging Uhuru’s victory.  The writer is National Assembly chief whip and Mumias East MP 