Tanzania custom officials have been accused of harassing Kenyan travellers and traders at the Isibania border post in Migori county. Traders who spoke to the Star on Sunday said clearing goods at the Tanzania customs offices is frustrating. They said Tanzania police officers are demanding for bribes on goods on transit. “The Tanzanian customs officials continue to harass and intimidate Kenyan traders. We keep wondering why this is happening yet the two governments keep talking of East African Cooperation” John Chacha, a cross border trader said. He has been doing business across the border for the past eight years. Read: Tanzania should end petty attitude towards Kenya Chacha said despite billions being spent by both countries on a one spot border point, clearance of goods on the Tanzanian side still takes hours because of a lot of bureaucracy.  He said Tanzania custom officers have taken advantage of the delay to solicit bribes to speed the process. Long queues of tracks carrying goods are still a common sight on the Tanzanian side.  Long distance truck drivers complain of long hours at the border, something they say greatly hinders their businesses. Truck driver Maina Mwangi, who operates between Kenya and Rwanda, said the Tanzanian customs officials are the 'worst' to deal with. “Our trucks stay here for long hours because of these officials. They take their time to clear us and more often they keep doing the same thing from one department to the other. We end up wasting our valuable time,” Mwangi said. Read: State to open one-stop centre for all investors On August 23 Kevin Safari, the Kenya Revenue Authority regional coordinator in Western Kenya said the establishment of a one stop border spot between Kenya and Tanzania at Isebania crossing, increased revenue collection by 19 per cent since operations started in 2012. Safari said the center collected Sh169 million in the 2013/14 financial year. “By the end of last financial year we had collected 201.7 million from Isebania post which we expect to increase by over 20 per cent in the current year,” Safari said in a statement red on his behalf by the post Chief Manager of Customs John Gathatwa. The center was to cut operation time to minutes from at least eight hours waiting time. But Kenyan traders said while the Kenyan side is fully operational, in Tanzania the status quo remains. “Clearing of goods on the Kenyan side has improved tremendously. We spend little time since the introduction of the center but on Tanzanian side, things have never changed,” said Charles Moseti, a trader at Isibania. A Tanzanian official who requested anonymity said the status quo in terms of bureaucracy remains at the Tanzanian side because of inadequate officials. “We try to do our best but we are few hence we become overwhelmed with a lot of work. The support from our government is not that strong.” The official however refuted claims of intimidation and extortion. Click here for the latest political news