The government has released Sh29.5 billion towards the implementation of Free Secondary Education programme in first term. This is the first tranche of cash in the tri-annual disbursements that are meant to cater for three terms. Education CS Fred Matiang’i confirmed on Wednesday the funds had already reached some schools. “Principals who won’t see money by today (Wednesday) or tomorrow, will see their money most probably by Friday or buy Monday,” he said. The annual fees for day secondary schools is Sh22,244 per child and it will be disbursed in the ratio of 50:30:20. Subsequent disbursements are expected in April and August. In the current capitation (Sh29.5b), each student has been allocated Sh11,122. Sh5,122 will go towards tuition while Sh6,000 will cater for operations. Previously, government catered for Sh12,870 while parents paid the remaining Sh9,374. Sh4,792 goes to teaching and learning materials. Repairs, maintenance and improvement take up Sh2,886, local travel and transport (1,833), administration costs (Sh1,572), electricity, water and conservancy (2,151), activity fees (Sh1,256), personnel emolument (5,755) and medical (Sh1,999). The rollout of the free day secondary education coincides with the implementation of a ministerial policy on text book distribution. The policy will see every student in public secondary school receive six text books for core subjects every year. These are English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, Physics, Biology and Chemistry. "To be sure that we have moved books to many of the far flung counties, a lot of our colleagues have been working throughout the holiday season," Matiang'i said. He spoke after meeting the steering committee on curriculum reforms at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development.  Secondary and Tertiary Education director Robert Masese said in a statement the capitation funds are inclusive of the cost of the books. “A portion equivalent to the cost of the six core-course books has been recovered from each learner towards payment for the books under the tuition vote item,” he said. Standard 7 and 8 pupils in public primary schools are the only ones who will benefit from the text book policy. Each pupil will receive 4 text books of English, Kiswahili, Science and Mathematics. Masese said Treasury has allocated Sh7.5 billion for the printing and supply of the text books. “Schools are expected to acknowledge receipt of the grant by issuing official receipts to the Principal Secretary for each of the two vote heads followed by receipts to each student for the capitation after they have signed form to be attached to payment voucher as per accounting procedures,” he said. Meanwhile, school principals have been reminded to adhere to the fees guidelines provided by the ministry. “For avoidance of doubt, all National schools and Extra- County schools in Mombasa, Nakuru, Nairobi, Kisumu and Eldoret will charge Sh53,554. Any other boarding school will charge Sh40,435,” Masese said.