President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked African leaders to provide financial, administrative, and military backing for continuous progress in the war against terrorism. He said the contributions will be channelled to the African Union's Peace and Security Council so that it can carry its mandate effectively. The Peace and Security Council is an organ of the AU for the prevention, management, and resolution of conflicts. "The Kenya government continues to appeal to our brothers and sisters on the continent to also collectively address the root cause and development of violent extremism," Uhuru said. He was addressing leaders who attended the council meeting at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia on Saturday. Also read: Trump eats humble pie, lauds African nations after ‘shithole’ remark The president hailed Kenya's progress in the war on al Shabaab, both at the national and regional level, but warned that more needs to be done to deal with the extremist groups. He said Kenya alongside Uganda, Ethiopia, Djibouti, and Burundi have contributed to peace, security, and stabilisation in Somalia through the African Union Mission to Somalia (AMISOM). Uhuru also told the leaders that Kenya, by establishing a National Counter-Terrorism Centre (NCTC), has seen more territories once occupied by al Shabaab recovered. "Other measures include rehabilitation programmes and initiatives that enhance de-radicalisation processes," he said. He said this has been successful through "granting amnesty for all returnees from Somalia who wish to abandon criminal affiliations to rejoin the society." "We have also facilitated humanitarian relief by securing the main supply routes to enable safe delivery of rations to most of the affected populations," the president said. He underscored the importance of stronger ties with both regional and international partners for training on emerging counter-violent extremism concepts and practices. Uhuru said the unfortunate timing of the AMISOM troop withdrawal while the level of preparedness of the Somali National forces to take over the security responsibility of their country was still low was a major challenge. "Indeed, I would like to call on the UN and the AU to ensure a practical and realistic AMISOM exit timelines that should be subjected to regular reviews," the President said. Uhuru said to prevent the existence of vulnerable groups that could expose Somalia and Kenya to terrorist attacks, there was the dire need for policymakers and leaders to focus on resolving conflicts by addressing the root causes to cut out emerging threats. "Effective counter-terrorism policy interventions must focus on protecting and empowering the communities, investing in peacebuilding, reconciliation and re-construction processes that include the people exposed to terrorism and the larger societies," he said. The President emphasised that the interventions should also encourage partnerships between locals and security forces as well as support equitable access to public service. He said the world must stop directing all focus to the return of radicalised foreign fighters in the Western nations while paying less attention to those who may return to areas with terrorist cells in Africa. "On return to Africa, those foreign fighters then link up with other extremist armed groups across our continent which have an affiliation with either Al-Qaeda or the Islamic State." Also read: Uhuru meets UN boss Antonnio Guterres, discuss South Sudan conflict UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, AU Peace and Security Council chair who is also Egypt's President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and the African Union Commission Chair Moussa Faki, called for a comprehensive approach to combat terrorism in Africa. The leaders said the transnational nature of terrorism could best be fought through a global approach. President El-Sisi said a comprehensive approach to curb terrorism remained a priority for Africa if the scourge was to be eliminated. "We need to bring on board all efforts to combat the terrorism threat globally. We need to come together to fight terrorism because it affects peace, security, and development," El-Sisi said. Guterres welcomed the African leaders’ efforts to fight terrorism, expressing the need to build cooperation between AU and UN to ensure a sustained and coordinated approach to combat the vice. "Nothing justifies terrorism. No cause or grievance can ever excuse the indiscriminate target of civilians, the destruction of lives and livelihoods, and the creation of panic," Guterres said. Guterres said the UN stood ready to support Africa in the war against terrorism and urged the international community to play its part as well. Click here for the latest political news