There is confusion in the enrolment of pupils for early childhood education under the new curriculum. A spot check by the Star revealed some schools still offered baby class. Schools said there is no communication scrapping the class. Although the 8-4-4 education system is being phased out, most schools continued registering pupils for baby class, which was scrapped. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system?  In changes adopted this month, the government requires children to begin school at 4-years-old. They will be in pre-school for two years in a pilot project of the new curriculum launched by Education Cabinet Secretary Dr Fred Matiang’i. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development director Julius Jwan said institutions still operating baby class are flouting the new curriculum. He urged county governments to ensure the new pre-primary curriculum is adhered to.  no course work books “The starting age for pupils to go to school is 4-years-old. I don’t know what a child will be doing in school at 3-years-old because there is no curriculum or course work book for them,” Jwan said. He said teaching materials for the pre-primary pilot are already in use. “Teaching in pre-primary involves a lot of practical lessons, interactive picture books, clip art and images to help pupils create and use their imagination,” Jwan said. Currently, Early Childhood Education is coordinated by the county governments. Read: Publication of learning materials for new curriculum underway The pilot project covers pre-school, Class One and Class Two. It will also be done in Class Three in the initial piloted 470 schools. This will allow in-depth evaluation of the curriculum to address gaps and strengthen strategies. Speaking to the Star, school managements said the schools were yet to phase out baby class. According to one manager, parents are wondering what children will do when they stay at home while they are at work.  parents demand day care “We have to gradually turn baby class to a baby care unit on the demand of parents. It will help kids adapt to the school environment,” one school head said. The new curriculum will be implemented in phases to cover the pre-primary, primary and high school syllabuses by 2027. Training for P1 primary school teachers will be scrapped to pave the way for implementation of a three-year long diploma programme. Read: New curriculum hones intellect Click here for the latest political news