 And to do this, we must follow
the right leaders and not those who are limping or just amassing insatiable
wealth. We have not made the right steps
in the past since we lacked the right leaders to follow. We must, therefore, at
the beginning of this second phase of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term redefine
leadership if we are to have the right leaders to follow.  So far, we must accept our
leaders have not been the right ones because they have been greedy and have
been in leadership, not to lead people to Canaan or to the developed world but
to enrich themselves by robbing us. We must ensure we pick leaders who are not
greedy and their preoccupation is to lead in the right direction. Once leaders are redefined from
hyenas to responsible shepherds, whose business is not to eat sheep but protect
them, we will never again hear leaders talking about their tenure of leadership
being their turn to eat.  Without this redefinition of
leadership, politicians will always rob people in any way they can, and will
promote and protect all the means of eating which will include stealing,
looting, plundering and enhancing corruption. If we do not redefine the
leaders were elected the other day, we will hear less of them condemning
corruption and more from Controller of Budget and the Auditor General about how much has been stolen from public coffers.  And once we have corrupt
leaders, we shall be persuaded to accept corruption and the corrupt.
  Unfortunately, though the
threshold of the right kind of leaders is well provided for in Chapter Six of
the Constitution, integrity was not demanded of leaders.
  Fortunately when leaders become
corrupt, their corruption is likely to be exposed by media, civil society and
Controller and Auditor General causing conflict with the whistleblowers that
will include Parliament and the Judiciary.  
  And when the government’s
corruption and graft have been exposed, its natural reaction is to institute
dictatorship with which to attack whistleblowers and institutions working with
prosecution in the fight against corruption. And if it is leaders who are
perpetrating corruption, power gives them impunity to block their prosecution. Dictatorship
is, therefore, strengthened to protect and defend them.
  It therefore means that unless
we ensure there is no corruption, we can be sure dictatorship will rear its
ugly head: There can be no corruption without dictatorship because it is
through it that would be whistleblowers and institutions that are supposed to
fight corruption are silenced and intimidated. It is the same dictatorship that
will silence outspoken MPs and silence brave judges who are inclined to punish
corruption.
 Finally, the corrupt and bad
leaders survive by using negative ethnicity to keep communities divided and when
they want protect themselves through protests.   Negative ethnicity is also used
to protect corrupt leaders, who always plead with their communities to defend
them, claiming the loot and plunder of corruption is communally owned and if it
is taken away from those who have stolen it, the whole community loses.
 Though communal negative
ethnicity has been a protector of loot or plunder of individual corruption, it
is never communally owned or ever used for the benefit of all. It only
benefits individuals.  So far, we have been so corrupt,
so poor, so divided and so mute against our own oppression and exploitation
because of bad leadership, corruption, negative ethnicity and dictatorship. If we have been so poor because
of a past that has been so oppressive and so exploitative, we shall be equally
poor in the future because the bad leadership that misled us is still there;
the corruption that robbed us is still there; the negative ethnicity that
divided us is still there and the dictatorship that oppressed us and gave our
leaders impunity to steal and kill us still exists.   