Police in Malindi have raided a Chinese fish processing firm following complaints from residents that it was located in a residential area. A combined force of police and Public health officers stormed the factory situated at Casuarina area. The authorities said there were complaints of noise from a generator, bad smell, and a container that was blocking the road. However, the factory owners produced permits, licenses and other documents to confirm they were operating legally. The operation was led by Malindi deputy County Commissioner Karung’o Kamau. Read: 'We now net 100 times more fish': Mombasa revels in deep-sea vessel Police had a hard time communicating with the foreigners as they could not speak English. The DCC, however, directed them to comply with the public health regulations so as to avoid conflicts with neighbours. The factory was late last year directed to set up a generator room to reduce sound and ensure there no water running out with fish smell. The factory is located in the centre of a fleet of residential apartments. The Investor processes both live and dead fish including lobster, Crabs among others which are exported to China and Europe. Naomi Kimani the owner the apartments bordering the factory said tenants were suffering due to the extensive noise and smell from the factory. “The neighbours do not have peace, they call me every day complaining about this factory, we want the factory to be relocated away from the residential area because the current site is not convenient for such business,’’ she said. Already she said some tenants have moved while others are planning to change apartments due to the inconveniences. She said her effort to get help from NEMA and health ministry have not yielded any fruits. Fernando Visti alias Masharubu another real estate investor said they have security concerns due to movements throughout the night. The factory owner Ruming Zhang said he would comply with the regulations. He said they had already set up a generator room to reduce the noise, and were now planning to remove the container outside the apartments. On the issue of bad smell, he said they would wash the fish inside the apartment to avoid inconveniencing neighbours.  Click here for the  latest political news