Kenyatta National Hospital CEO Lilly Koros has been summoned by the Parliamentary Committee on Health to explain the allegations of rape cases at the facility. Koros is expected to appear before the Committee to give a report on the outcome of the investigations of the chilling rape claims. Read:KNH CEO Lily Koros writes to DCI for probe into rape claims She will also be expected to give a detailed status report of equipment at the hospital in the meeting scheduled for Friday 26 next week. The summon comes just a day after the hospital was put on the spot over claims of breastfeeding mothers being allegedly raped. The reports indicated that mothers who go through Cesarean are at a high risk when they go to breastfeed their newborns. With the arrival of the babies, mothers are expected to go and breastfeed their babies every two hours in the nurseries located on another floor, separate from their wards. There are now claims that this exercise is hindered and complicated by the threat of rape and theft they face on their way to the nurseries. On Friday, Koros said that no such case has ever been raised at the facility. "The allegations are in bad faith. We have written to the DCI to investigate and if they is any truth then action will be taken," she said. She said despite the facility having mounted CCTV camera's in corridors and lifts, they have reviewed and such a thing has not been recorded. "Not a single case has been reported to us. There are security teams who oversee the safety and security of patients in the hospital day and night," Koros said. Koros also clarified that mortuary attendants use service lifts which are separate from those used by patients and clients. "There is no single complaint that has been registered in such a case yet we have suggestion boxes," she said. Read:Why rape breastfeeding mothers? KNH on spot after public outcry Also Read:Rape claim by nursing mum at KNH sparks social media uproar Health CS Cloepa Mailu said he has directed the hospital to avail all the CCTV footage to the DCI and prepare a report before Tuesday next week. He said it is unfortunate that such incidences might have happened but necessary action will be taken after thorough investigations. His sentiments were echoed by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja who called for speedy investigations into the matter. Woman Rep Esther Passaris also said there is need to improve security apparatus at the facility for more surveillance. Passaris who led a group of other women leaders to the hospital on Saturday said the security at the hospital must be improved to ensure such incidences are well monitored.