Commonwealth Games-bound Kenneth Mungara won the men’s race at the Hong Kong Marathon yesterday. Mungara, 44 and the world record-holder for runners over 40 years, pulled away from the leading pack entering Lung Wo Road and never looked back as he struck gold at the Victoria Park finishing line in a time of 2:13:38. He is almost double the age of the Ethiopian runner-up Bonsa Dida Direba who finished five seconds behind. Mungara was delighted to have finished ahead of the field in Hong Kong, especially as he was neck and neck with Direba for much of the latter stages. “Very happy, because we are challenging each other there when we are coming. so you have to keep quiet and challenge this guy,” he said. Direba was still close in the final straight in Victoria Park, causing Mungara to look over his shoulder at the youngster which spurred him on to victory. “Everybody coming here, their dream is to win the race,” he added. “That is why I looked forward to win the race.” Mungara – who holds the world record for the marathon for over-40s, 2:08:44 in Milan in 2015 – acknowledged it’s not easy to go against younger men. “That is a challenge, man,” he said. “That is a big challenge. Because these guys want to keep you, to take you back home and you want to stay there so you have to challenge them, you have to stay there, you have to train every day, and work hard to maintain that position number one.” He said the win is a message: “I am going to the Commonwealth [Games], I wanted to make sure I won.” Direba – whose marathon PB of 2:10:16 is faster than the Hong Kong record – might fancy his chances in 2019 but so does the champion. When asked when he might break his masters record his response was ominous: “Maybe next year.” There’s no reason to disbelieve the late bloomer, whose first marathon win was in 2008 and his most recent before Hong Kong in 2016. In the women’s race, 25-year-old Gulume Tollesa Chala of Ethiopia successfully defended her title in a time of 2:29:36 seconds, beating her time from last year by four minutes. The men’s and women’s full marathon champions each bagged Sh6.5million in prize money The best local performer in the full race was 24-year-old Ngai Kang. Mainland runners Li Chunhui and Hao Xiaofan won the men’s and women’s half-marathon. Local runners swept the podium in the 10-kilometre challenge, with Kok Yu-hang winning the men’s title in 31 minutes 57 seconds, and Choi Yan-yin taking the women’s title. Elsewhere, Kenyan athletes played second fiddle to Ethiopian rivals at the Mumbai Marathon yesterday. Defending champion Bornes Kitur finished second in the women’s category posting 2:28:48 . Ethiopia’s Amane Gobena carried the day by posting 2:25:49 with Shuko Genemo finishing third in 2:29:41 The men’s category went to Solomoin Deksisa who registered 2:09:34 with compatriot Shumet Alknaw second in 2:10:00 with Kenya’s Joshua Korir third in 2:10:30 “The pacers couldn’t do the job they were asked to do and were dropping out early, so I tried to make the race quicker,” said Kipkorir.