Cabinet Secretary for Transport James Macharia has approved a request for a three-month promotional tariff for the Standard Gauge Railway freight service. This is to enable the cargo owners and shipping fraternity experience the new service that was launched on January 1, this year at a promotional tariff up to March. Kenya Railways will now charge a flat rate of $645 (Sh64,500) for a 20-foot container and $843 (Sh84,300) for 40-foot container, which will include freight, handling charges and returning of empty containers from Nairobi to Mombasa. Initially, clearing agents and cargo owners complained of many hidden charges on top of the $500 (Sh50,000) rate for the 20-foot container and $700 (Sh70,000) for 40-foot container. Last week, Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association raised concerns over the issue of last mile, clearance of cargo at Nairobi Internal Container Depot and returning of empty containers to Mombasa, saying the issues had not been addressed. However, in a bid to entice the cargo owners, shippers and clearing agents, Kenyan government has decided to introduce a flat fixed rate to do away with other hidden costs. In a statement, Macharia said the decision follows consultations held between Kenya Railways, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Revenue Authority. Others were Shippers Council of Eastern Africa on behalf of importers and exporters in Kenya an Eastern Africa and Kenya Shippers Agents Association representing shipping agents and brokers. “The move will also give KRC, KPA and KRA an early opportunity to test and improve on the processes at the One Stop Border Post based at the recently upgraded Inland Container Depot to enhance customer experience during this inaugural period,” said Macharia. The CS asked SCEA, KSAA to work closely with KRC, KPA, KRA and other partners involved in cargo handling at the ICD to provide a seamless service to cargo owners in the country and in Eastern Africa region generally. Kifwa chairperson William Ojonyo had last week accused KRC of rushing to implement the freight services without addressing some of the pertinent issues raised during stakeholder’s meetings. Kifwa said the Nairobi ICD clearance system is very slow, saying “They have automated the system, but they do not have the capacity. It might take a whole day to clear the cargo through the automated system. Let them first address these issues,” he said.      