A groups of youths in Bomet county have asked the president to consider former governor Isaac Rutto for a cabinet post. Rutto was a NASA principal but he decamped to Jubilee Party after the August 8 general election. He has kept a low profile since losing his seat to Joyce Laboso. More on this: Isaac Rutto joins NASA as fifth principal, promises Jubilee hard time in polls  Also read: I was lonely in NASA, now back home, Rutto says after joining Jubilee The youths, who addressed the press in Bomet town on Friday, noted Rutto agreed to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. They said he should therefore be given the opportunity to serve. "Rutto’s proficiency in matters devolution during his time as a governor, and his experience in previous governments, would be of great impact to the Jubilee administration," their representative Sosthene Kipkemoi said. "He should be brought on board." Kipkemoi, who addressed the press alongside Kipngetich Cheruiyot, further pointed out that the Chama Cha Mashinani leader had significant political clout. They said he is a Kalenjin leader whose influence can be felt across the country, so his appointment to the cabinet would be of great value to Ruto. The DP wants to take over once the president's second term end in 2022. “Rutto is no longer at war with Ruto and Uhuru. He is now in Jubilee and he is the one person who can unite the people through his political influence,” said Kipkemoi. The former governor has dismissed as propaganda, claims that he was offered a cabinet position. He said he was puzzled by the claims made on social media. “The president should be allowed time and space to piece together a team that can help him deliver without the introduction of diversionary issues,” Rutto said in a statement to the press. “No one should pretend to be privy to what the president is up to with regard to forming his cabinet. It is his constitutional right and prerogative to nominate people he feels are qualified for the various positions." Last Friday, Rutto reiterated his support for Uhuru and assured Laboso that he would not interfere with her administration. A week ago, the president re-appointed six members of his cabinet and nominated three others – former governor Ukur Yatani of Frontier Alliance Party, former DPP Keriako Tobiko and former Turkana Senator John Munyes. The public awaits the full list. More on this: Why Uhuru, Ruto failed to name full Cabinet after daylong wait Read: Uhuru considers Kidero, Khalwale, Serem for Cabinet Click here for the latest political news