Zoo Kericho’s midfielder Mike Madoya has been nominated in three categories for the SportPesa Premier League awards following his individual brilliance and teamwork in the just ended season. Madoya was nominated for the Most Valuable Player (MVP), New player of the Year and the Midfielder of the Year and faces stiff competition from Gor Mahia’s new acquisition Lawrence Juma, who is also a candidate in the three categories albeit inferior points aggregate. The awards, which were initially set for last December, were pushed back to this month to pave way for the Cecafa Senior Challenge tournament. Yesterday, club captains and head coaches voted their best five nominees in each category. Despite the sponsors of the event SportPesa cancelling all local sponsorships earlier this week, the bookmarker spared the awards and vowed to fete the eventual winners who will be unveiled on January 12. Madoya will be in contention for the Most Valuable Player (MVP) alongside the Sports Journalist Association of Kenya (SJAK) Most Valuable Player and Gor Mahia forward Meddie Kagere, Patrick Matasi of Posta Rangers, John Oyemba of Kariobangi Sharks and Lawrence Juma who decamped from Nzoia Sugar to Gor Mahia.The winner of the MVP accolade will pocket Sh1million while the first and second runners up will get 500,000 and 300,000 respectively. Madoya will face stiff competition in the Midfielder of the Year, where he is pitted against Lawrence Juma (Nzoia), Ezekiel Okare (Sofapaka), Daniel Waweru (Ulinzi Stars) and former Tusker midfielder Humprey Mieno. The triumphant player will walk home with Sh300 000 while the first and second runners up will bank Sh200,000 and Sh100,000 respectively. In the New Player of the Year category, Madoya is up against team-mate Nicholas Kipkirui, Sven Yidah of Sharks, Sofapaka forward Umaru Kasumba and Lawrence Juma. The category attracts a similar cash prize to that of the midfielder and defender of the year. Patrick Matasi, who made a name in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup highlights the Goalkeeper of the Year final five, where he will face the reigning SJAK goalkeeper of the year John Oyemba of Sharks, Levis Opiyo of Mathare United, David Juma of Kakamega Homeboyz and Sofapaka’s Mathias Kigonya.The best gloveman will earn Sh500,000 while his runners up will pocket ksh 300 and 200 thousand respectively. Experienced Mathare United skipper George Owino leads the category of the Defender of the Year, where he will contest the award with Rangers’ Jockins Atudo, former Homeboyz centre half Charles Momanyi, Nicholas Meja of Nakumatt and Musa Mohammed of Gor Mahia. Sofapaka’s Sam Ssimbwa will face opposition from Sammy Omollo of Rangers, William Muluya of Kariobangi Sharks, Bernard Mwalala of Nzoia Sugar and Mike Mururi who plied his trade with Kakamega Homeboyz in the Coach of the Year award. The league’s season top scorer Masoud Juma will receive Sh500 000 while Meddie Kagere will pocket Sh300 000 for finishing second in the scoring charts. The trio of Kepha Aswani, Jacques Tuyisenge and Stephen Waruru will be decorated with Sh200 000 each after tying in third place.