Edith Nyenze, widow of the late Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, will fight out for the Wiper ticket Maluki Kitili in primaries slated for Tuesday. IEBC set March 26 for the by-election which followed Nyenze's death on December 6. See: Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze is dead Also read: Kitui West MP by-election to replace Nyenze set for March 26 - IEBC Kitili is the son of Kitui woman representative Nyiva Mwendwa. The county is considered a Wiper stronghold. On Saturday, he asked Kitui West voters to give him a chance to serve them as their legislator promising to bring development to the area. "I am seeking your vote in the coming nominations on Tuesday so that I can offer my service to you as your representative. I call it servant leadership." Edith Nyenze, on the other hand, has promised to offer inclusive and consultative leadership if the voters entrust her with the coveted Wiper ticket. "My manifesto is based on the fact that there is no monopoly of knowledge. Your (voters) input will be highly considered and implemented for the betterment of us all," she said. Wiper Party will have polling stations at sub-location headquarters in all the four wards namely Kauai, Mutonguni, Matinyani, and Kwa Mutonga /Kithumula. According to IEBC, parties are required to present candidates by January 19. This has forced Wiper to slate their nominations in good time for dispute resolution. The nominations have attracted quite a substantial attention across the county by the fact that it is pitting two powerful political families. Nyiva and the late Nyenze families have been loyal friends to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, who is the region's political kingpin. Kalonzo’s name has prominently featured in both the Mwendwa’s and Nyenze’s camps in a manner to sway support to either side. However, the Wiper party leaders have remained neutral saying they are trusting the Kitui West voters to give the party the next MP. Governor Charity Ngilu has declared her support for Nyenze’s widow. Click here for latest political news 