Nurses in 13 counties have threatened to withholdtheir services from next Thursday because of unpaid salaries. They are owed different amounts accrued from June last year when they went on a strike that lasted five months. The strike ended early November and counties agreed to release all the arrears by December 31. Read: Nurses issued sack notice as strike enters second week Seth Panyako, secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, said: “We direct all our members who are owed money by counties to prepare for daily salary parades at their Governor's offices with effect from January 11 until all outstanding monies are paid." He addressed a press conference in Nairobi on Thursday. The affected counties are Bungoma, Nakuru, Nyeri, Homa Bay, Elgeyo Marakwet, Tharaka Nithi, Makueni, Kakamega, Wajir, Laikipia, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Kericho. Panyako said the union understands some counties are facing financial challenges but asked them to let union officials how the payments will be made. He noted the daily picketing was not a strike, but that if need be, the union will issue a legal notice. “They should follow the example of Nyamira which has reached an agreement with workers. If need be, we will start the year with industrial action," he said. Panyako accused the counties of stalling the collective bargaining agreement. “It was supposed to be ready by November 30 last year but we keep on getting postponement letters (from the Council of Governors). I responded to the latest one today." A return-to-work agreement signed by the two parties in November required that the CBA be ready by December 2 - 30 days after the signing. According to the return-to-work formula, nurses will initially earn an extra cumulative allowance of Sh3,416 every month, beginning June. The nurses were also promised that their Sh10,000 annual uniform allowance will be increased by Sh5,000 every year until 2020. An amount of Sh3,000 will also be added to their monthly nursing service allowance next year. Counties were given two months to release all the salaries they withheld during the strike. The nurses had demanded a Sh15,400 monthly risk allowance, Sh5,000 monthly extraneous allowance and a increase in the uniform allowance, from Sh10,000 to Sh50,000 per year. The Governors and the Salaries and Remuneration Commission rejected the figures saying they could not afford them. More on this read: You cannot be paid for work not done during strike, Kinyanjui tells nurses Click here for latest political news 