The strike by SGR workers in Naivasha entered the third day yesterday. A senior government officer attached to the project said the continued impasse over payment would adversely cost the contractor and the government. The officer admitted that works around Mai Mahiu are behind schedule. “The ongoing industrial unrest should be resolved as soon as possible so that works can go on and we can finish this project by mid next year,” he said. The strike started on Wednesday when more than 300 SGR workers protested against poor working conditions, disrupting transport on the Mai Mahiu-Narok Road. The workers from Satellite centre in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, said they will not resume work until the issue is resolved. The China Road and Bridge Corporation issued a statement over the strike saying it was keen to resolve the impasse. Steve Zhao, the company spokesman, said they were looking into claims of disparity in remuneration from one sub-section to the other. Zhao said that they had provided a comprehensive medical cover and house allowances. He added that they organise internal awards to motivate staff. “Since the start of the construction of the SGR we have ensured we adhere to the Kenyan labour laws and offer workers the best working conditions,” he said. Zhao said they hired four 50 seater-buses to ferry the workers to their places of work instead of using open trucks. “Transport for our staff is one of our priority areas in ensuring efficiency and maintaining high productivity at all our sub-section offices,” he said. One of the workers, Joel Kiragu, however, said the contractor had not offered them anything since the strike began. He added that they are keen to continue with the strike. “All we are getting from the contractor and government officers are threats. We shall not be cowed until we get justice,” he said. The strike comes barely a fortnight after two workers died and three others were seriously injured after a section of the railway line collapsed. Zhao apologised to the community and the commuters for the disruption as a result of the protest. He said the staff remuneration varies depending on the skill level and position in the company.