A family in Chevoso village, Kakamega county, is seeking justice for their son who was dismissed from work after reacting to drugs that left him blind. Twenty-nine-year-ol Erastus Indangasi worked as clinical officer at Lugulu Mission Hospital in Bungoma. “I went to the lab and tests were done. They indicated I had malaria. A doctor prescribed Quinine and Ceftriaxon to be administered intravenously,” he said at his home yesterday. His was struck by Steven Johnson’s Syndrome - a type of severe skin reaction. "I developed ugly dark spots all over my body. I started oozing blood, water and pus," Indangasi said. A day after the treatment he went blind. One of his eardrums ruptured. The writer made several calls to the hospital management that were not answered. Neither was a short message text. Indangasi now uses a drug to lubricate his eyes, since his tear glands were destroyed. “The drug costs me Sh1,400 every month. I have to buy tears, since my eyes can’t produce any,” he said. In June 2017, Erastus was sacked from Lugulu Mission Hospital. He was told to collect his terminal benefits for the 18 months he had worked. “I was told they could no longer have me as their staff. They was no position for blind staff," Indangasi said. For the past one year he has tried unsuccessfully to seek treatment to restore his eyesight. “The the cheapest eye specialist I saw said an operation on both eyes will cost Sh800,000 and there is no guarantee I will see again. I don’t have that kind of money.The ear specialist needs Sh250,000 to restore the damaged eardrum,” he said. Indangasi wants the hospital to compensate him for wrongful dismissal and wrong treatment. He said although he lost his sight, he is still able to work. He is doing a Braille course and wants his job back. “The hospital did not assist me. My contract stated I was entitled to full medical cover.They threw me into the cold,” Indangasi said. His parents James and Agnes Indangasi are sorrowful. They said their son was their breadwinner. “It was the hospital's mistake, yet they sacked him. It's unfair. Help us to find justice my son. He needs money for the surgeries so that he can live a normal life again,” his father said.