 The Kitale High Court will on Wednesday rule on an application for a vote recount in the Trans Nzoia gubernatorial election. Governor Patrick Khaemba asked justice Anthony Murima to order a recount of votes in six polling stations where forms 37As were missing. The application was made by lawyer Peter Wanyama in December. He had already ordered a scrutiny of the forms 37As, 37Bs and 37C. The scrutiny was conducted on December 19 and 20 under the supervision of the court's deputy registrar. Two voters, Robinson Mwanga and Alfa Chore, had petitioned Khaemba reelection. Khaemba had asked the court to dismiss for vote scrutiny and order a recount. He said the petitioners had failed to name specific polling stations to be scrutinised. “There has been no complaint from any candidate regarding the tally at the polling stations,” Khaemba said. Elsewhere, Eldoret High Court judge Cecillia Gitua will on Wednesday rule on an application by the IEBC to have a petition against Saboti MP Caleb Amisi terminated.  High court in Kitale and Eldoret will on Wednesday continue to hear and rule on various cases petitioning three leaders in Trans Nzoia county. They include petitions against Governor Patrick Khaemba, senator Michael Mbito and saboti MP Caleb Amisi’s August 8 victories. The hearing of Khaemba’s and Amisi’s cases is in Kitale while Mbito’s case is before  Eldoret high court. At the Kitale high court, justice Anthony Murima is expected to rule on application from Governor Khaemba’s lawyer  Peter Wanyama who wanted a vote recount at six polling stations which had no form 37As and Bs. The court is also expected to give a verdict   on vote scrutiny as ordered by Murima in December. Murima ruled that forms 37A, 37B and 37C be scrutinised. He however declined to order a recount of votes. “A notice of motion on the petition against the winner partly succeeds. I hereby conclude that forms 37A, 37Bs and 37C be scrutinised,” Murima said. Two voters, Robinson Mwanga and Alfa Chore, petitioned Governor Patrick Khaemba’s election. The scrutiny was  done of December 19 and 20. It will was overseen by the court's deputy registrar. Khaemba had asked the court to dismiss the application for vote scrutiny. His lawyer Peter Wanyama said the petitioner failed to name specific polling stations to be scrutinised. During the hearing of the case, Governor Khaemba Through his lawyer Peter Wanyama, asked Justice Murima to dismiss the application on votes scrutiny and recount. He said this followed the petitioner’s failure to name specific polling stations to be scrutinised and the reason. “There has been no complaint from any candidate regarding the tally at the polling stations.Therefore, this cannot form the basis of vote scrutiny,” the lawyer said. Former senator Henry Ndiema petitioned against Mbito’s victory alleging he stole his victory as elections were mared with iregularies and illegalities. For Amisi’s case,Justice Cecillia Gitua is expected to rule on application by the IEBC to have the case be terminated through Preliminary objection. His closest Competitor Competitor Jonus Kuko challenged Amisi's election, saying it was rigged. Amisi beat Kuko by 19,138 votes against 18,191.