Pundits have been predicting the financial ruin of universities after the unprecedented failure of
students to meet the minimum C+ magic university admission grade last year.
The allegation that universities ceased to be institutes of higher learning is predicated
on the parallel programme. The KCSE exam is
seen as a conveyor belt for this adventure. Critics almost make it look like the massive KCSE failures were a remedy deliberately engineered against the lowering of
academic standards at and by the university. The parallel programme is accused of being the flagship of the academy forfeiting its
role for commercial gain, leading to proliferation of “meaningless paper”
degrees. That some are obtained
through unorthodox grading in exchange for sex or money has been the theme. The universities are seen to be minting undeserved billions, especially when they bent over backwards to offer
diploma and certificate courses. Universities treat these as “bridging
courses” leading to degree study, inevitably turning bridging courses into
recruitment incubators. Minus empirical evidence, the government has joined the
chorus, with the Education CS deriding university education as “massification”,
and capitalisation is delayed or denied altogether. Dons labelled
as greedy cannot get a fair labour’s worth; their legitimate demand for fair pay
through strikes branded clamour for more money. This has resulted in plummeting
standards and suspended research. A moonlighting don has become the
bane of jokes; their mitumba outfit
mistaken for meanness towards self. The role of academia is no longer appreciated, in particular the contribution of university
education to society. Granted universities have
expanded rather rapidly in the past 10 years. The appropriation of tertiary facilities and courses was in response to market forces and contradictory government policies. The
earlier policy to have more public universities and intake was not concomitant
with fiscal support. Universities were forced to “generate”
income. The income-generation syndrome ballooned, gobbled
up existing tertiary institutions and led to the creation of hazardous campuses. In
the meantime private universities sprouted in competition, turning higher
education into a hawking business. Without a manpower development
policy, the now empty facilities are
a direct result of the kind of populist piecemeal reforms lacking a global
picture of the country’s education needs and goals now underway. It isn’t a gamble
that a public officer should gloat about as if in a grudge fight in which basic
education reforms are meant to suffocate higher education. The complementarities
of basic education reform ought to be reflected with adjustments in higher
education, excluding official nit-picking universities. Yes, it was wrong to allow
universities to occupy polytechnics without complementary alternatives. But
revitalisation of the repellent youth and village polytechnic has been dismal;
the clarion call for one polytechnic per constituency remains a promise 10
years on. And yet we’ve bastardised the polytechnic to the extent no one wants
to associate with it, even when government offers equipment and tuition fees. Given the circumstances, the
intermediary universities' intervention to quench the thirst for higher
education of thousands shouldn’t be ridiculed. The university has ensured that
the “failed” talented KCSE student has been able to “bridge” the gap between
exams and knowledge by going through certificate, diploma and finally getting a
degree. These graduates are basically the competency cadre discarded by the
elitist exam system that we are struggling to reform. Unfortunately, the current reform
approach will produce a large pool of this cadre yearning for degrees if the
loopholes aren’t sealed at the tertiary level. The idea that a talented few
will henceforth find placement in universities and the rest loiter in tertiary institutions
is misinformed. We cannot plan to increase the transition rates at basic level
without building absorption capacity at tertiary and university level. And we cannot reinvent the
polytechnic by pruning it from the university. It’s up to government to reform
the education sector to relieve universities of the burden of offering certificate
and diploma courses. But that cannot be done by denying universities the space they
already occupy. The solution lies in making the polytechnic an attractive career
choice by modernising facilities, courses and delivery.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com