Starehe MP Charles “Jaguar” Kanyi has sued Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko for banning boda boda riders from the city centre In an urgent application at the Milimani law courts yesterday, he said the decision was reached without any consultation. He wants the court to quash the Gazette notice by the government. On Monday the county government banned boda bodas from the CBD. It warned of hefty fines, arrest and long jail terms if they break the new rules. A gazette notice says the only riders allowed in the CBD will be those providing courier services. Read: Sonko bans boda bodas from Nairobi CBD Related: Sonko claims rivals behind Nairobi CBD muggings hefty fines “Any operator and passenger contravening this law will be arrested for an offence punishable by hefty fines and long jail terms as provided for in the Traffic Act, 2014,” it states. The ban was imposed to reduce congestion and general disorder and rising crime in the CBD. Jaguar called the move ill informed, unilaterally made and based on irrelevant considerations. “The boda boda ban may result in more harm than good, as operators will be frustrated and without a source of livelihood. They may easily be involved in the very criminal activities the ban seeks to curb”  he said. On Tuesday, the county impounded several boda bodas and arrested operators violating the ban. The MP says the ban is curtailing the economic rights of many riders who rely on ferrying passengers to and from the CBD. Also sought is an order to compel the county government to release motorcles that have so far been impounded and facilitate the immediate release of all the riders arrested following the ban. The Gazette notice says: “Pursuant to the provisions of the Traffic Act CAP 403 of 2014 of the laws of Kenya, the county government of Nairobi wishes to inform all motorcycle riders ferrying passengers to and from the CBD that such activities have been banned with immediate effect.” Read: Sonko Rescue Team dismisses 'baseless' links to CBD robberies Click here for the latest political news