A toxicologist has contradicted reports that British tycoon Harry Veevers was killed using a pesticide, deepening the mystery surrounding the death. Alexander Richard told the court that there was no trace of the cyhalothrin
pesticide on samples obtained from Veevers' body after the autopsy. The expert, who testified through video conferencing, told
Mombasa principal magistrate Charles Ndegwa there were four possibilities on why the pesticide was not detected. He said the alleged pesticide might have been deliberately added to the samples
after the Briton's death, probably to distort the final report. Richard added that it was highly unlike for the samples to have accidentally been
contaminated at the laboratory. He held that since the body had been tampered with, since it was buried for a year before being exhumed, the traces were not likely to be detected since they were low. Richard
further informed the court that there has never been a death recorded as a
result of cyhalothrin pesticide since it has low toxins to affect humans. The forensic
scientist said the Kenyan government chemist failed to issue him with the report or details of their findings of the autopsy. He said
the Kenyan analyst also erred in categorising cyhalothrin as carbamate
pesticide yet it was a pyrethorg pesticide. Read: Tests show British tycoon Veevers ingested pesticide - pathologist He said
these types of pesticides could not be confused as they had different chemical
structure much as they serve almost the same purpose. The analyst informed
the court that his focus was on cyhalothrin pesticide as he was instructed by Hellen Veevers -
the daughter of the deceased. Hellen had
taken samples of soft tissues and soil to Manlove Forensic labs before they were forwarded
to Richard for analysis. Veevers, who died in 2013 has been lying at a Mombasa mortuary, after his body was
exhumed via court orders. He was buried
under Islamic customs although his sons Richard and Philip maintain their
father was a Christian. The sons
also accuse their step mother Azra Parvin and her daughters for killing their
father. The
inquest continues on Thursday. Click here for the latest political news 