The crescendo of government threats against Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka’s swearing-in reached alarming levels on Monday when media reported security chiefs were considering detaining NASA leaders, a step which would precipitate national chaos. The event itself poses negligible risk of violence, unless it is stoked by the authorities’ fear of a massive turnout. But amid the relentless government and foreign power criticism of the swearing in, few have looked at the profound malaise that has gripped the country for the last six months as the cause of the current tensions. Nor has anyone acknowledged the role that Raila’s much awaited swearing in and the People’s Assembly have played in maintaining peace in the country. The idea behind the swearing in and the creation of the People’s Assembly was a Nasa master stroke. It was a symbolic gesture which diminished the legitimacy of the Uhuru Ruto regime. It provided the prospect of an alternative leadership for ideas and initiatives that the de facto Presidency and Parliament have refused to contemplate. Like the Presidency, the National Assembly was also hijacked in the rigged election. There will be potent and popular alternatives now. The Jubilee regime and some Western envoys have called the People’s Assembly and its President unconstitutional, even though they have no idea what precise oath the two leaders will take. Constitutions define values and parameters, and do not list all that is permissible. Uhuru Kenyatta has just appointed Chief Administrative Secretaries who are not catered for in the Constitution, but there has been no outcry about that. The real question about these peaceful NASA initiatives is not their legality but why millions of Kenyans in the mainstream have been driven to adopt such revolutionary steps and demand the swearing in a people’s president. Many of these same people have gone even farther and demanded that they be given arms to protect themselves against police killings, and that failing a negotiated settlement to electoral justice, to seriously consider secession. This is what the discussion in Kenya should be about: What is causing a country with mostly moderate leaders to consider such radical solutions? This momentous, first-ever people-led national debate about the country’s future is being driven by a decades-long malaise of sectarian marginalisation, exclusion and poverty. The reason there is so much fuss about the swearing-in among Jubilee and its backers is that it finally poses the greatest-ever challenge to the country’s powerful, narrowly constituted elite who have ruled Kenya for over half a century with leaders from only two communities out of the nearly 50 who make up our nation. We have had situations before when most Kenyans were opposed to the government, but never where they were determined to take concrete (but peaceful) steps to subject it to a new election and to usher in a new era of lawful, inclusive and equitable rule. The people have relentlessly pushed the initially not eager NASA leaders to confront injustice by being sworn in. At one point, they openly condemned Raila Odinga himself, when he delayed the swearing-in to give dialogue a chance. So the debate has now been liberated from leaders. The people are in command now. The net result of Uhuru’s reign is that a senior NASA leader like Deputy President Kalonzo Musyoka, a self-confessed moderate, has moved very far in his progressive evolution and has resisted huge pressure to leave Raila and NASA. NASA principal and campaign head Musalia Mudavadi has similarly evolved to take tough positions on the changes needed. The idea behind the swearing in and the People’s Assembly is to provide a range of ideas and initiatives through an alternative leadership to both the Presidency and the National Assembly. Finally, a word about Raila Odinga, the leader most vigorously demonised by the elites and oligarchs because of his egalitarian, social democratic roots, his pro-poor policies and his vast popularity beyond his Nyanza base. He is recognised by independent analysts as the most successful opposition leader in the last quarter century. No leader, including our presidents, have had such a long stretch of popularity as he has had. Raila was instrumental in winning the presidency for Mwai Kibaki in 2002. After Kibaki’s betrayal of the Coalition that put him in power, Raila as ODM opposition leader defeated the government’s proposed new Constitution in the 2005 referendum. He then won the next three elections in 2007, 2013 and 2017. In 2010 he finally achieved his and Kenya’s goal of a progressive Constitution. Not even presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel arap Moi and Kibaki have enjoyed such enduring national support, except during their first few years of tenure. He now faces his greatest test yet, against a rough regime which has little respect for the law or human life. The full version of this piece can be found online at the Star website