Kenya and almost all the African states were created following the Foreign Policy decision of 13 European countries and the US during the Berlin Conference of 1884 (also referred to as the Congo Conference or the West Africa Conference). The Conference, according to the General Act of the Berlin Conference, formalised the beginning of the scramble for Africa, and was motivated by five primary issues. One, freedom of trade in the basin of the Congo, its embouchures and circumjacent regions. Two, end the slave trade, and the operations by sea or land which furnished slaves to that trade. Three, neutrality of the territories comprised in the conventional basin of the Congo. Four, navigation for the Congo and Niger rivers, their effluents and the waters in their system. Five, the introduction into international relations certain uniform rules with reference to future occupations on the Coast of the African Continent Considering Africa was not created by Africans nor for Africans, driven by the Principle of Effectivity (establishment of authority), decisions made at Otto von Bismarck’s official residence in Wilhelmstrasse, Berlin, have shaped Africa’s international relations and likely in future, unless a separate future is determined by a strong African leadership and a well-informed population. It is not well-researched as to what consumes the minds of the youth in Africa (are currently the most talked-about population on earth) with bias to global affairs, since they are the most privileged generation blessed with technological capabilities that can filter knowledge out of the information provided on the internet about the world. African governments and institutions could be apportioned blame when it comes to the ‘international political ignorance’ of the African minds about the world around them. It causes a lot of worry when we have more Africa-specific research and academic institutions in Europe and America, implying that there could be people who know more about Africa than the Africans themselves. Another implication is that Africans could only be knowledgeable about Africa and not in any other part of the world, owing to the lack of foreign-focussed research and academic institutions across the continent. The long-term consequence is that the continent’s growth will continue to be slow and foreign-led, despite some recent commendable developments in expanding intra-Africa trade and infrastructure. I hope we can learn from the efforts of pre-Berlin Conference — that all investments and growth should be led by proper research, organisation and planning. It is, therefore, high time that Africans developed full academic and non-academic organisations — state and/or non-state — not limited to examples such as institutes for American Studies, Centers for Asian Affairs and Schools of European Affairs. These efforts should be conscientiously matched with intra-Africa sub-regional focuses, which are non-existent or only brushed through as units not concentrations in International Relations courses. Closer to the people is the media, which deliberately or unintentionally are yet to improve the consciousness of the masses on these weighty issues. Foreign policies of African governments could easily go without much analysis or criticism from the people on the streets, apart from a few coincidences, where the foreign media highlight issues resulting from the country’s decisions, global conferences hosted in African cities or headlines caused in other parts of the world and personalities. Africa as the cradle of mankind should develop keenness in Foreign Policy and International Relations to realise long-term growth in their security, economies and sociopolitical spheres of their lives.