Drama ensued during the burial of scholar Calestous Juma at Bumina village in Budalang’i after a group of youth came with a bible and demanded Raila Odinga be sworn in. Juma, born on June 9, 1953, died in mid December last year, barely a week after his mother was buried. At
the time of his death, he was Professor of the Practice of
International Development at Harvard Kennedy School and Director of the
Science, Technology, and Globalization Project at the Belfer Center. Read:Kenyan Havard professor Calestous Juma is dead Also Read:[VIDEO] From a village technician, Prof Juma rose to towering scholar The swearing in drama came just after Foreign affairs CS Amina Mohamed and her Environment counterpart Judy Wakhungu had jointly read president Uhuru Kenyatta's speech. But when Raila was invited to give his address, the youth chanting 'baba' slogans while lifting a bible in their hands, handed it to the NASA chief and asked him to take the oath. Busia woman Rep Florence Mutua backed the move by the youth saying Western Region is more than ready to host the swearing in ceremony. Mutua said Raila's swearing in will be a relief to over 70 percent of registered voters whose will was overturned by IEBC. We want you to be sworn in as soon as possible so that our country can progress and move on. We don't care where our statehouse will be, even if it will be at the garage we don't care as long us we have as president," she said. Mutua said, "We wish you could take the oath before you officially launch the Western people's assembly. But Raila calmed the chanting crowd and told them the day of the bible was coming. "You have all seen them giving me a bible, but I have told them that will be another day. For now I want to assure all Kenyans that our journey to Canaan is on course whether they like it or not," he said. Raila said the coalition is intact and focused to achieving electoral justice to end tyrannical type of leadership that has cost the country its development. He said it is unfortunate president Uhuru Kenyatta's regime has neglected some regions in terms of resource distribution and development yet they pay taxes. His sentiments were echoed by Senate Minority leader Moses Wetangula who said Jubilee's regime has failed in terms of providing a leadership than can foster the country. "This government has a tendency of celebrating mediocrity at the expense of talent and that is why you see the kind of leadership they have subjected us to," he said. He said, "That is why we in NASA say it is not yet over until it is over. Unless we stand together and walk the talk, we shall continue to be subjected to the philosophy of lets accept and move on". ANC's Musalia Mudavadi dismissed claims that there was a rift in the coalition following the oath taking plan. Claiming some parts of the country have been sidelined, Mudavadi said the coalition will continue to rally behind Raila to ensure electoral justice is achieved. Also Read:Raila to be sworn-in on January 30          