Human rights activist Ken Wafula has died. Wafula, 45, died of high blood pressure on Wednesday at St Luke's Hospital in Eldoret where he was admitted. He was diabetic. He was Director at the Center for Human Rights and Democracy (CHRD). Kipkorir Ngetich, a programmes officer at the centre, said the activist had been well until last Saturday when he complained of being sick. "We talked to him and he appeared well but on Tuesday he complained that he was feeling unwell." "We organized for him to be taken to hospital where doctors said he his blood pressure was too high," Ngetich said. Wafula was widely involved in the ICC cases which followed the 2007/08 post-election violence.  He helped in the protection of some of the witnesses. Related: ICC case crumbled because I’m clean, not for lack of evidence Read: Ken Wafula seeks to testify over ICC witness payments claims The father of three had developed breathing problems and doctors tried in vain in save his life. Wafula has had a long history in human rights activism within Eldoret and was also involved in politics through Ford Kenya. In the last elections, he vied for the Trans Nzoia Senate seat as an independent candidate but was defeated. Before the polls, he tried unsuccessfully to remove Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetangula from the position. His wife Miriam, who is eight months pregnant, was overwhelmed on learning of the death. She described her husband as a loving and courageous man who loved fighting for the rights of others. "Despite the many issues he was involved in, Wafula was a loving husband and father to our children. He always protected us and it’s sad that he has left us," Miriam said. Wafula was also extensively involved in the search for the body of ICC witness Meshack Yebei who was killed in Eldoret. Yebei's body later found at Tsavo National Park in coast region. Lately, Wafula was preparing to sue county governments over skewed hiring of staff which ignored minority groups in some of the regions. He was born from a humble family and at one time he lived on the streets of Eldoret. "It’s on the streets that I witnessed a lot of injustices that led me to partner with friends in setting up CHRD," he once said. He will also be remembered for his fight against FGM in Kerio Valley. His wife is director of the Institute Women Rights, which is based in Eldoret. The family said a postmortem will be done on his body at a date that they are yet to disclose. Click here for the latest political news