As
a police service we are apolitical and we would not want to be drawn into a political
contest. We have to work within the law. When it comes to things like
elections, we as police only provide security. We are not involved in the
electoral process. Our day-to-day duties are enforcing law and order and we
cannot be drawn into the political contest. When
someone says he is going to be sworn in, we cannot be party to it because we
are officers of the law. The
laws say there shall be an election every five years and we had an election,
this election was contested in court, it was nullified, there was a repeat
election; during the repeat, the person who now wants to be sworn in withdrew -
did not participate, a person who did not participate says, according to him,
he won the first election, which he contested and it was nullified - he
contested that election which he now says is his basis for his being sworn in.
But it was nullified. From
where we sit, there was an election process and that process was concluded. We
as the NPS do not declare anyone the President it is done by the chairman of
the IEBC, so to us, the person whom the IEBC declared the President was Uhuru
Kenyatta. Some
people went to court after this declaration and said that the election was
aboveboard. As
the NPS, we are not the IEBC, we are not the Supreme Court, we only enforce law
and order and we are apolitical. The
person the IEBC and the Supreme Court have declared and confirmed is President is
Uhuru Kenyatta, so any other process that comes now in law is an illegitimate process
and it is a political issue and we don’t deal with political issues. We cannot
provide security to an illegitimate process in law. We
are officers of the law and work strictly within the law. You cannot contest us;
you cannot throw your tantrums at the police the way you throw them at the
IEBC, at the Supreme Court. We
provide the law, are apolitical and we don't want to be thrown into political
issues and our duty is to protect the lives and property of the Kenyans. The writer is the Director, Corporate Affairs, National Police
Service Click here for the latest political news