The Kenyan team recorded wins in the penultimate matches of the ongoing Eastern Africa Junior Championships to inch closer to picking tickets for the African Junior Championships. Kenyan players in either age categories (14 and 16) extended their spectacular run yesterday, picking invaluable wins to maintain their unbeaten run in the tournament at Nairobi Club. In the boys’ 14 and under category, Kenya saw off Burundian opponents 3-0 to set a date with Rwandese opponents in the final match. Jayson Mbogoro beat Abdilla Ndashimiye 6-0, 6-0 with Kael Shah replicating the result against Kashindi Mussa. In doubles, Kenyan pair of Braydon Sagala and Jayson Mbogoro overcame resistance from their Burundian pair of Kashindi Musa and Abdoulnoor Ndiwumana to win 7-6, 6-1. Despite Shah playing with a heavy bandaged calf, the Spanish-based youngster exuded confidence that he will win the final match against Rwanda. “I hurt my leg on Friday but that could not stop me from playing. Personally, the opponent I am playing today is no a stranger to me as we met in last week’s singles, where I beat him. I hope to replicate the same and help the Kenyan team to the continental finals. We are ready as a team and confident of wins.” Kenya tops the boys’ U-14 table with 12 sets earned from four matches. The Kenyan girls for the same age set will play Uganda in their final match today. Kenya also top the girls standing with six sets gained from two matches. In the boys’ under -16 category, the home boys reaped a 3-0 victory over Burundi. Derrick Ominde slapped Aboubakar Ndayishimiye with a 6-2,6-0 defeat while Ryan Randiek ran over Salum Mutabazi 6-0, 6-1. In the doubles, a Kenyan pair of Suhail Hooker and Randiek struggled to beat Ndayishimiye and Cerfe Kagoma 6-1, 4-6,10-1. The Kenyan boys stand a chance of representing the region in the African finals should they beat Rwanda in their final match today. Kenya top the log with nine sets collected from three matches. In the girls’ U-16, Kenya also recorded a 3-0 win over Tanzania. Angela Okutoyi saw off Victoria Ndossi 6-0,6-0 while her counterpart Sheha Kotecha humiliated Esther Nankulange with a similar set margin. In the doubles, Okutoyi and Claire Muthoni overpowered Tanzanian pair of Nankulange and Beatrice Kimaro 6-0, 6-0. Kenya will play Burundi today in their final match. The home boys will face Burundi’s Aisha Niyonkuru and Hoziane Kitambala. The two countries top the standings with nine sets collected from three matches. “The Burundian girls are likely to trouble us since they are experienced but I am confident our players will deliver. Generally, Team Kenya is strong and disciplined in all categories and as a team, we are hopeful of representing the region in South Africa,” said coach Allan Atola.