Governors of Laikipia,
Baringo, Isiolo and Samburu counties are set to
launch a joint economic initiative that will end resource-based conflicts in
the region and propel it to economic prosperity.  The
initiative is anchored on modernising pastoralism through the establishment of feedlots and
fodder preservation and synchronisation of the development of water sources,
roads and learning institutions.  It has a
major backing from key development partners and the national government. “There
is a big donor and the national government interest in the initiative after
the counties showed their seriousness by incorporating their county integrated
development plans into the initiative,” Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi said
yesterday in a statement. Under the initiative called the Amaya Triangle Initiative, each governor is
expected to commit his county to conserve and grow enough fodder as a drought
mitigation measure. This is expected to end movement of livestock in search of elusive
pasture. On
Wednesday, Muriithi will host governors Stanley Kiptis of Baringo, Moses
Lenolkulal of Samburu and Mohammed Kuti of Isiolo in Nanyuki town, where they will
meet the technical team which has been working on the structures of the
initiative. The
technical team with membership drawn from each of the counties has been
identifying areas of common interest in their county integrated development
plans and manifestos.  “The technical team has already identified the
shared areas of interest in the manifestos of respective governors, who are expected
to commit themselves into developing them,” Githuku Mwangi, Muriithi’s economic
and political adviser, said. The
Wednesday meeting is a culmination of several consultations by the county
bosses on ways to bring to an end constant conflicts triggered by search for pasture,
water and cattle rustling. They
first met on the sidelines of the governors’ retreat in Diani, where they agreed to set up the technical teams
to work out the structures of the initiative. The
four governors say if they work as a team, they can easily lobby for more funds
from the national government and development partners to achieve the goal. Mwangi said there is a consensus among the planning team members on the
need to commercialise pastoralism by raising the value of livestock though modern technology. The technology include establishment of feedlots and fodder
reserves as well as investing in the entire value chain. “We
cannot continue keeping livestock the way we have doing it for ages. With diminishing pasture, our only survival is to modernise and commercialise pastoralism,”
Mwangi noted. The Laikipia
government in partnership with the National Drought Management Authority and
IlNgw’esi Group community ranch are piloting on a 100 acres of grass in Nandung’uro, Laikipia North subcounty. Also
on the table is a plan to introduce a joint artificial insemination initiative to improve on
the cattle breeds and beef quality. This will allow the counties to venture into
joint livestock or beef marketing.   Also in
the offing is the development of some economic centres on the common
borders like Mugie Corner, Louniek, Oldonyiro as well as the establishment of joint
feedlots and water dams.    