Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter insists he is Labour committee chairman yet his Jubilee Party counterparts removed him in a vote of no confidence on Tuesday. Keter told a press briefing that the manner in which the MPs voted him out was unconstitutional. "It is wrong. It is immoral and we are not going to allow that. We will not relent. We are still the chairmen and vice chairmen. There is no way the Labour team can balance Kenya," he said. More on this: No confidence vote: Alfred Keter ousted as Labour committee chair The embattled MP accused president Uhuru Kenyatta's party of allowing cartels to take control of parliamentary duties and committees. "I know why they want us out. It is because the cartels are in control and are using the presidency as an institution to coronate puppets to run the committees." Keter added that the cartels want to continue stealing from Kenyans but emphasised he will not allow this. "If they can control committees then they can control parliament. It is very unfortunate. It's not about us losing ... nobody here is losing ... it is the people of Kenya losing," he said. "If there is a party that wants to have its members de-whipped, there is a process in the constitution and there are standing orders. What happened was wrong, illegal and immoral." The legislator said the party expected the National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi to be neutral because he is a referee but noted that he was disappointed. "They went to State House and it is good that even the speaker was in State House. We expected the speaker to be neutral because he is a referee but he was there," he said. Keter was voted out earlier today after nominated MP David Ole Sankok moved the motion claiming they did not take into consideration the requirement of regional balance. Majority leader Aden Duale later said he can run and make noise on TV stations but the die has been cast. Duale defended Jubilee Party legislators in his address to the media moments after the controversial vote. It had been said that the ruling coalition wanted to tame four rebel MPs but Duale, who is in charge of Garissa Town, said their choices were based on equity and inclusiveness. "I told Keter two days ago that Tuesday was his D-day but he did not listen. He went ahead and assembled with members of parliament who have trade union backgrounds to back him up." Click here for the latest political news