First of all, let me thank the police for allowing NASA to hold the so-called swearing-in ceremony in Uhuru Park and also for protecting the business of other Kenyans within Nairobi and other parts of the country. Secondly, I want to point out that what happened at Uhuru Park was the beginning of end of NASA - it was the burial ceremony of the coalition. I also want to point out from the outset that the 2010 Constitution has provided clearly how the MCA, MP, Governor and the President, among other constitutional office holders, are elected and, or picked. It also provides the swearing-in procedure, the time it is conducted and who administers the oath of office to both the President and the Deputy President. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission conducted the General Election in August 2017, we had several presidential candidates, including Raila Odinga, and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kenyatta won, but some people went to the Supreme Court to challenge his victory. The court nullified the Presidential results and ordered a fresh election, where we all know Raila chickened out. Then yesterday he was purporting to be using the nullified results to swear himself in. We have President Uhuru, who is legally elected and in office with the support of Kenyans. What is purported to have taken place at Uhuru Park was no more than a scene of out of the shooting of a movie, and was also very unconstitutional. It is the Joke of The Year! It was a sham. It is high time Raila should search his soul, relook at his team of advisers. This thing has shamed him both locally and internationally. He should have quit the political stage gracefully, without having to embarrass himself that much. So Kenyans should not worry; his alleged swearing-in has no constitutional implication, is not supported by any law. Raila has just been installed as the leader of the Opposition and the people behind the ceremony were trying to use the event to reinvent Raila for the 2022 Presidential election. Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, who are all eying the NASA ticket, realised it early enough and they took off. And, therefore, what the country will be witnessing in the next few days is the terminal infighting and blame game in the Opposition outfit. The writer is the Majority Leader in the National Assembly