A section of Nairobi MCAs are expected to hold a meeting in efforts to resolve the row between Governor Mike Sonko and DG Polycarp Igathe. Majority Leader Abdi Guyo said the meeting will employ mediation mechanisms with a view of making the deputy governor retract his resignation. Igathe resigned as the Nairobi deputy governor on Friday citing failure to earn Governor Sonko's trust. Read: Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him The MCA's,
especially Jubilee members, say there is need to find any possible ways the two can
still work as a team. Guyo asked Nairobi residents to remain calm as leaders look into the best way of handling the matter. He said despite Igathe's exit, Nairobi was well catered for under the leadership of Sonko and Senator Johnson Sakaja. The Matopeni MCA said the city county has intellectuals who can fill the space left by Igathe, further dismissing claims that City Hall was being run by State House operatives. "Let
people stop cheap propaganda, Sonko is only a loyal supporter of
president Uhuru Kenyatta and that does not mean that all he does is
directed by state house," he said. Also read: Courageous or cowardly? Kenyans ponder Igathe's resignation The deputy county chief said the move to resign was for him to avoid abusing or betraying his oath of office. "Dear
Nairobians, it is with a heavy heart that I resign my seat as elected
Deputy Governor of Nairobi City County effective 1 pm on Jan 31, 2018." "I
regret I have failed to earn the trust of the Governor to enable me to
drive Admin & Management of the county," he said via twitter. "Without
fear, favour or ill will I step down to avoid abusing or betraying my
oath of office to Kenyans, Nairobians & my family. Thank you for the
encouraging support given to me so far." Before his resignation, Igathe had denied claims of a fallout with Sonko. A
section of youth expressed their disappointment saying the DG should have considered all options in his bid before such a move. Calling
on Jubilee Party leadership to move swiftly and solve any political
feuds, the youth said Igathe has made them look like quitters. Read: Igathe made us look like quitters, youths says after split from Sonko Click here for the latest political news