Most recently, and following conclusion of the 2017 election, the 2010 Constitution has come under political attack as well as misrepresentation on what a party or an individual can do when pursuing a political issue. To that extent, Thirdway Alliance Kenya has received numerous calls from Kenyans asking about our perspective of the right position on two questions: The planned swearing-in of yet another “president” by the NASA coalition, specifically the NRM wing, and whether that swearing in is constitutional. Does it offend the Constitution? Whether TAK can play effective opposition without elected members. Who can claim to be the lead opposition party or leader? In summary, the above two questions have been asked because those asking them may not have understood the Constitution. TAK has always promised to protect and enforce the implementation of the Constitution as well as the rule of law. If Kenyans would recall, protecting the Constitution was one of our campaign pillars in the 2017 election, and we promised to pursue this call beyond the 2017 elections. Educating Kenyans on the right position on the 2010 Constitution is part of the TAK agenda. This is a call for all in Kenya pursuant to Article 3. To this extent, TAK offers the following perspective on the two cited issues. Our pride is to shed light rather than political heat for Kenyans on matters rule of law and the Constitution.  SWEARING-IN OF ANOTHER ‘PRESIDENT’ We have noted with concern that a section of the so-called NRM have threatened to swear-in NASA leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka as parallel “president” and “deputy president” of the Republic of Kenya respectively. They have also said they will nominate their own Cabinet secretaries to form a parallel government. They have argued they are guided by Article 1 of the Constitution, as they establish a parallel government. Therein lies an outright, deliberate and misleading interpretation of Article 1, probably for political expediency. We would like to urge them to read the Constitution ‘mutatis mutandis’ [ comparing two or more cases or situations] and stop misleading the public. Article 3( 2 ) clearly states, “Any attempt to establish a government otherwise than in compliance with this Constitution is unlawful”. This automatically makes it treasonable to form a parallel government in this country. If the swearing-in is for a “president” of something else other than the Republic of Kenya, I guess it may be within anyone’s fantasy to do so. However, since the intention has already been communicated to include the formation of a parallel government, then that is outrightly unlawful and offends our Constitution.  CAN TAK CLAIM ROLE OF OPPOSITION LEADER? Kenyans would recall that TAK conceded defeat in the repeat presidential polls. However, TAK also promised Kenyans that it shall put President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government in check. We will do this while offering a non-violent opposition by, inter alia, pursuing a legislative agenda via Article 119 of the supreme law. Some people have scoffed at this idea without having understood the basis of our position. Those laughing off the idea of TAK playing opposition lead are wrong that we cannot pursue any legislative agenda just because we have no members in Parliament. One does not have to be an MP to participate in a legislative process. Article 119 ( 1 ) directly provides, “Every person has a right to petition Parliament to consider any matter within its authority, including to enact, amend or repeal any legislation” In fact, since there is already claim and desire for two governments, someone has to play the lead opposition role. TAK will not allow a lacuna to exist in our body politic.  FORMING A SHADOW CABINET To help TAK pursue an alternative leadership role as the opposition, we shall form a Shadow Cabinet as soon as President Uhuru appoints all his ministers. We have already received over 130 applications from the public of persons interested in joining our Shadow Cabinet, mainly on a volunteer basis. We still urge Kenyans to send their CVs to leader@thirdwayalliance.org. We are particularly encouraging women, youth and people living with disabilities to apply because we believe in them to be the majority of Kenyans who must form the bulk of any government. We believe in inclusion of all Kenyans in governance. Our job, as the Kenyan opposition, is well cut out and we are not interested in any power deals that will put our country onto a political warpath. We are only interested in playing the opposition role by offering alternative solutions to the daily problems affecting Kenyans. We believe it is time for non-violent opposition in our country and any dialogue must be that which will involve the Mwananchi in solving his or her daily struggles. Our resolve, as a party, is to ensure all Kenyans are happy and live a comfortable life. We will not relent until this is achieved either by the government of the day or when we will eventually form the next responsive government. In the meantime, we are here to play meaningful and effective opposition to the government of President Uhuru.    