Rift Valley Region Secondary Schools Sports Association’s ruled the 2017 season as Kenya retained the overall title at the East Africa secondary school games. RVSSSA topped in Term One, Two ‘A’ and ‘B’ games, together with cross country, decathlon and heptathlon leaving Nairobi, Western, Nyanza, Central, Eastern and Coast to fight for the remaining positions as North Eastern propped the eight-region standing. In addition to bagging team and individual accolades at the East Africa games, swimmers, lawn tennis, rugby 15s and girls hockey teams led the way as others followed in Kenya’s quest to extend regional glory. Kenya won 28 medals (11 gold, seven silvers and 10 bronze) out of the available 69. They beat hosts Uganda to second place as Rwanda settled for bronze with nine medals. Burundi, South Sudan and Tanzania finished the tournament at fourth, fifth and sixth respectively. Kenya won two more gold medals than Uganda. The boys’ aqua team collected 14 of a possible 16 gold medals, while in the girls’ class Kenya, harnessed nine of the 16. This excellent feat counted for two gold medals in Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association’s basket. To crown the medals, 2016 SOYA Player of the year Hadassah Gichovi and Emmanuel Ndonga were named the Most Valuable Players. Petty Andanda and Albert Njogu led Kenya to win their first ever boys’ team title in lawn tennis as Faith Nyabera inspired the girls to the top. Boys’ rugby 15s and girls hockey sides too did well, sweeping all podium places. Laiser Hill, Kakamega High and Upper Hill finished in that order in the rugby 15s, while Sinyolo Girls led the hockey sweep in an unbeaten run. Laiser Hill’s Clinton Kioko and Sinyolo’s Alice Owiti were voted the MVPs. Other disciplines where Kenya reaped gold medals are girls’ football (Wiyeta), volleyball (Kwanthanze) and boys’ rugby Sevens (Muhuri Muchiri), hockey (Kisumu Day) and athletics. However, disappointments were registered in boys’ volleyball where no Kenyan outfit reached the semifinals as national champions Sengera SDA and 2016 regional holders Malava settled for the fifth and sixth places respectively. Other disciplines which posted similar results are boys’ basketball and handball as Uganda commanded authority in badminton and table tennis. The season ended with the tragic death of KSSSA chairman Kimutai Ng’etich through a road accident two days after Team Kenya arrived from Gulu, Uganda.  