FORMER
Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdullahi is a man basking in glory. He won a court
petition against Jubilee Governor Mohamud
Abdi last week and was seen in a top-end Nairobi hotel on Friday evening
where he celebrated the victory with his supporters and close allies. A huge
crowd of supporters turned up at the hotel, located in the CBD to celebrate his
hard-won victory following the ruling by the High Court on Friday. The staunch
ODM official thanked supporters for prayers and moral support too. ***** DID a section of Jubilee MPs walk out on DP William Ruto’s meeting last week? Well,
our mole told us that the meeting convened by Ruto at a hotel in Nairobi turned
into a shouting match after some MPs protested against the DP. Some of the MPs
walked out in a huff, leaving the DP behind with a handful of lawmakers. The
bone of contention was allegedly the result of a directive by the DP to one of
the MPs to drop his position as the chairman of an influential committee in
Parliament. The MP, from the DP’s Rift Valley backyard, is said to have gone
against a power-sharing deal within the ruling alliance. ***** KNC party leader Manson Nyamweya has stoked political
fireworks in Kisii County, following his latest approach to succeed Governor James Ongwae in 2022. The former South
Mugirango MP and a staunch supporter of NASA leader Raila Odinga has sent
tongues wagging after he vowed over the weekend to launch vigorous and early
campaigns from March. The business tycoon has already crafted a campaign
machine led by two former MPs from the county to spearhead his bid for the top
county seat. A scheme by an influential county official to woo him has hit a
dead end after Nyamweya resolved to maintain a protracted and uninterrupted campaign
ahead of 2022. ***** AN influential governor from Nyanza has panicked as the
ruling on a petition challenging his victory draws nigh. The governor – who
recently constituted a small team of advisers – has been spending most of his time
at a five-star hotel in Kisumu as he awaits the moment of reckoning. Last week,
the governor ferried all his 10 advisers to the lakeside city to evaluate the
impact of the ruling expected in a few weeks after filing closing statements in
court. It is apparent that the ruling could throw the residents into a
by-election after the defence miserably failed to counter serious allegations
in the petition involving mass rigging of votes. *****