The three AIPCA bishops who perished on Friday in an accident on the Embu-Makutano road, Kirinyaga, were great peacemakers, Meru politicians and clerics have said. They said their deaths were a big blow to the region, the Christian family and Kenya at large. The African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa bishops — Philip Kubai of Igembe North, Stanley Karuru of Igembe Central and Moses M’Eruri of Igembe South — died on the spot after the car they were travelling in collided with another car. Three other travellers, including drivers of the two cars, sustained serious injuries. The accident occurred at around 8.30pm. The bishops were travelling to Nairobi from a church function in Embu. Bishop Stanley Muthomi, the administrative secretary of the AIPCA, eulogised the deceased as great servants of God. The bishops championed peace and harmony in Meru county and Kenya as a whole, he said. The chairman of the church where Bishop Phillip served until his demise said they will be remembered for their great work in promoting peace and unity. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said the bishops will be remembered for their great service to residents. “I’ve been saddened by the untimely demise of three senior clerics of the AIPCA through a tragic road accident in Embu,” he said on Saturday. “On my own behalf and the good people of Meru county and its government, I take this early opportunity to convey my heartfelt condolences to the families of the three bishops — Kubai, Karuru and M’Eruri. “I knew the three great men of God personally and their untimely death is a big blow to the entire AIPCA fraternity, Meru county and the entire Christian family.” Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi on Saturday said the three were a unifying factor in the Nyambene region. “The loss of the spiritual leaders who were crushed to death in Wamumu Village on Friday night has left a big gap within the Igembe Christian fraternity. “They played a vital role uniting our community. The three united the whole Nyambene region. It’s a big loss to our nation,” he said in Riaka village.  Tigania East MP Gichunge Josphat urged drivers to exercise caution on the roads. “Drivers should not drive recklessly or gamble with people’s lives. They must be careful,” he said at St Angela’s Girls’ Secondary School in his constituency after presiding over a wedding ceremony. Igembe North MP Maoka Maore said, “The loss of the three Igembe AIPCA bishops at a go is a shock to all. I condole with the families, churches and our community.” Former Meru Woman MP Florence Kajuju also sent her condolences. “We pray that the Lord grants their families divine strength. May we exercise more caution on our roads. God protect thy people as we usher in the New Year,” she said.