I’m female. This may come as a surprise to a few askaris and police officers who have addressed me as ‘Sir’. I’m used to hearing things such as ‘But why where you there?’ and ‘What were you wearing?’ So Police Chief Japheth Koome’s helpful suggestion to not walk alone in the CBD in order to avoid getting mugged is therefore, structurally, not a great surprise to me. Women have heard this in some shape or form for ages. Don’t be there. Also, don’t wear that. But don’t wear a burka either because even that will not protect you from getting harassed. Depending on where you are, it might get you some anti-Muslim harassment as well. Best just stop being. Mind boggled. Mind boggled, heart broken: The stories that came out of the Kenya National Hospital from women who were sexually harassed and raped when they tried to see their newborns. The thing is: these stories aren’t new. They were known. But as so often, they weren’t told until there was critical mass, until something conspired to give women critical mass – and even now, women prefer to tell them anonymously. So as a side show, we get, yet again, something that we routinely hear alongside ‘Why were you there?’ and ‘What were you wearing?’: ‘Why didn’t you report it?’ Or, in the words of Lily Koros, KNH CEO: ‘Why didn’t you put it in the suggestion box?’ What did she expect? ‘Liked the tea, didn’t appreciate the rape in the lift, maybe change the detergent for the sheets as it made my skin itchy’? I have little to say on this that doesn’t involve swear words, and my heart goes out to the women who had to go through this. And I keep wondering: Who on earth runs this place? No, not the hospital – that’d be Ms Koros who seemingly believes in quality management by suggestion box. Maybe also not Nairobi City. Our governor, with his anti-mugging squad and habit of shooting into bar ceilings, would do well in a Nollywood movie, but has no concept of building and turning around the institutions that you need to run a county. Who runs this place? Who is in charge? Who stands by while the head of the police tells us to walk in groups? Who stands by while we’re told to write down rape experiences on a piece of paper to stick in a suggestion box? What happened to the spirit behind ‘Beyond Zero’? What’s the point of free maternity services if it comes with a helping of rape? The writer is an independent country risk analyst 