Jubilee and NASA leaders are planning to bulldoze their MPs to approve the disputed list of members to champion the lawmakers welfare in the Parliamentary Service Commission. The leaders have said they will not bow to MPs demands to have three nominees to the nine-member commission replaced. MPs accuse the three of failing to fight for their welfare in the 11th Parliament when the Salaries and Remuneration Commission slashed their pay and other privileges.  Eldas MP Adan Keynan and nominated Senator Beth Mugo, both of Jubilee, and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga (NASA) are the three whose nomination have been opposed. NASA’s other nominees are Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. Jubilee also nominated Taveta MP Naomi Shaban, and Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot.  STANDOFF National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, Minority Leader John Mbadi and Minority deputy Chief Whip Chris Wamalwa yesterday told the Star that none of their nominees will be replaced. A major standoff occurred in Parliament last month, forcing Speaker Justin Muturi to indefinitely suspend the debate and approval of nominees until members agreed. Duale described as “fake news” reports Jubilee was considering replacing Keynan and Mugo. FINAL LIST Washiali said names of the Jubilee nominees to the PSC were agreed upon during their parliamentary group meeting at State House last month. The meeting was chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The list of Jubilee nominees we agreed on with the President and his deputy is final. The names will be brought back to the floor of the House and members with concerns will have an opportunity to raise them,” Washiali said. “Those claiming the retained commissioners did not fight for MPs welfare are not sincere because members would not be getting their Sh5 million car grant back.” PSC has successfully challenged the SRC directive that scrapped car grants for the 416 lawmakers in the bicameral Parliament. Mbadi said the NASA leadership had made its decision and it is upon members to make their determination by either supporting or rejecting the coalition list. “There is no decision we have made on replacement and we are not intending to make any. If members have any issue, they will have an opportunity to vote,” Mbadi said. Read:Muturi suspends PSC list after NASA, Jubilee oppose nominees He said it would be a sign of weak leadership if NASA bowed to the MPs pressure and changed. MISSING NAME The Suba South MP said the coalition will only replace its nominees when they are rejected through voting. Wiper MPs want Wanga replaced by Borabu MP Ben Momanyi. The standoff in the National Assembly over the approval of the nominees was also caused by Momanyi’s name missing on the NASA list.  “There has been disquiet in NASA over the sharing of the House leadership positions. We demand some revocation. We have instructed our party leader Kalonzo to present the matter at the summit with a view that the positions will be shared as earlier agreed,” Wiper chairman Kivutha Kibwana said. EXECUTIVE GATEKEEPER Wamalwa said the same nominees will be presented in Parliament again for members to examine them individually, in terms of their performance, record and qualification. “They are to champion the welfare of members not Jubilee or NASA. We want people who are competent and have capabilities to deliver,” Wamalwa said. “The general feeling among members is that they are uncomfortable with Keynan, whom they say has been in the PSC for too long. They also feel that Mugo is a gatekeeper for the Executive, forgetting her advocacy for members.” Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria defended the retained nominees, saying they have managed to reverse almost all SRC directives that were against the welfare of MPs. “The list we were given by the President as Jubilee should be passed without any amendment. PSC has fought for us,” Gikaria said. INSULTED UHURU Nandi Senator Cherargei Kiprotich told Star that Jubilee members are against Wanga and Khaniri because they had shown disrespect to Uhuru by insulting the President at NASA public rallies. Gikaria said they should be approved because Wanga had apologised. “We will recommend the setting up of a tribunal against particular commissioners who go against members’ demands. If they fail us, we remove them,” Gikaria said. The MP accused first-time lawmakers of being coerced by senior MPs to reject the nominees. Also Read:Standoffs in Jubilee and NASA as MPs differ on PSC nominees Click here for latest political news