One time in 1977, I had a very bad nightmare. I found myself trapped in a forest of big trees, in a jungle of thick fog, heavy rain, frightening lightning and thunder. It was totally dark in this jungle until lightning struck, felling big trees among shivering men, women and children, who were running away in every direction, taking cover at the base of every tree. When the big trees were struck, they fell on people, crushing many to death, and pinning others down. They could hardly escape. Every one of the big trees in the jungle had a name – hunger, disease, malaria, corruption, prison, detention, negative ethnicity, unemployment, cancer, accidents, murders, torture and so forth. While these trees would fall when they were struck down, they controlled the jungle and terrorised the people in it. When the people were struck by the falling trees, they would scream but nobody would hear them and when they could not free themselves, they died while others were terribly crippled. All these people were enveloped in the same jungle, in the same darkness and in the same danger without exit. They huddled together seeking protection at the base of the trees that still stood, only to scatter in all directions, when they, too, came crashing down. Frightened and now shivering, these people didn’t talk neither recognised one another. In fact, they never came together to plan for their escape from the jungle because the trees of negative ethnicity would strike, scatter and divide them. I, like everybody else, felt completely cornered, hungry, wet and cold, yet I sweated with fear and fright. I seemed to know no one. As I lived in this jungle, I run from one falling tree to another, until one day when one tree crashed down on me, pinning down one of my legs. Frantically, I did everything to free myself and screamed from pain, but no one heard me or asked me how they could help. As I struggled and screamed, I suddenly awoke, sweating and panting. Believing I was still in the jungle, I heard laughter and startled myself out of the nightmare world. An askari was watching me through the judas of my prison cell. Why are you screaming? The askari asked. Get lost, I told him. Have you no shame watching me when asleep? I am doing my job, he said, laughing and walking away. It was four in the morning. I sat on my sisal mat, thinking, until I slept again. When I woke up, I told my fellow detainees about my scary dream. “I had a terrible nightmare,” I told them. “I was stuck in a jungle of terrible trees that called themselves all our terrible problems. One of them struck and pinned me down. I feared it would kill me until I freed myself and woke up.” Then one detainee told me. “You are wrong because you have not freed yourself from any tree. The tree of detention is still pinning you down and your nightmare is far from over.” It immediately became clear to me, that even as one nightmare tortured me in the prison cell, a bigger one was waiting for me outside prison. Indeed, the bigger nightmare of the endless jungle is still with us, killing and maiming as hunger, poverty, negative ethnicity, diseases, accidents, murders, torture and lack of jobs proliferate. Tragically, badly run and corrupt society is not our only jungle or nightmare. Indeed, the majority of Kenyans move from one jungle and nightmare to the other, getting more and more mired in hunger, diseases, cancer, unemployment, despair, corruption and death. From the jungle of big trees that crush and kill us, there is another jungle of carnivores that attacks, chases and kills herbivore animals for food. And like the jungle of big trees, that is ruled by carnivores – lions, leopards, cheetahs, leopards, wild dogs, hyenas and all other carnivores – live and grow fat on animals that eat grass and never hurt the meat eaters. Unfortunately, while it is possible for grass eaters to protect themselves from meat eaters, the carnivores never allow herbivores to unite and protect themselves against them. Tragically, meat eaters do not just eat grass eaters in the carnivore jungle. They also protect and keep the jungle of big trees for supply of grass eaters. To be free from the trees of poverty, unemployment, oppression and exploitation, the grass eaters of all jungles must unite and protect themselves against all jungles and their beneficiaries.        