A woman and her family has described her visit to Diani, Kwale county, for the festive season "hell".  This was after she was conned by online fraudsters who posed as hotel owners. Explaining the incident to the Star yesterday, Waithera Kamau said she found herself in the hands of online conmen as she tried to make reservations for a hotel room during this festive season at the Asins Holiday Inn. “I was booking online and I confirmed with two sites for the same hotel,” she said. Impostors were making reservations for hotel rooms for those who wished to book via travel sites. Asins Holiday Inn is one of the hotels affected by the fraudulent online scam indicating that the impostors could have pocketed millions of shillings. Due to the increased flow of visitors to the coastal town this festive season, most of the hotels in Diani were fully booked.  This forced Waithera to book reservation online, which was the beginning of her being robbed of her money. She made her reservations, paid a down payment of Sh19,000 and invoices and receipts were sent to her via email. The fraudsters seemed to be well-informed with the hotel operations and they managed to convince her to pay through mobile money transfer.  “I was called by a woman who confirmed that my rooms were booked and sought to know whether I would want an airport transfer, but I said I was fine,” Waithera said She said later she checked the email she had used to book and realised something was amiss. “Checking on their email, I noticed that it was a Gmail account and Asins Holiday Inn being an established hotel should have a domain email address. That is when I started doubting,” Waithera said. Her doubts prompting her to make a directory query of the hotel from Safaricom. “Safaricom gave me the genuine number for Asins Holiday Inn and on calling them, they said they don’t have my details and that I was the fourth person to lay such claims,” Waithera said. She travelled to Diani with the family and luckily she got accommodation in the same hotel, but had to cough more money. Five holidaymakers have complained of having been conned of their money through online bookings. “There was also another couple who was coming for honeymoon and they have been conned the same way. Snother family had been robbed of Sh42,000,” Asins Holiday Inn manager George Baya said. The matter was reported to police in Diani. Msambweni police boss Joseph Chebusit said police are investigating.