Women lawyers have asked the government to take over security services at Kenyatta National Hospital and other major health facilities. Currently, security inside KNH is mainly provided by guards employed by the hospital. The call by Federation of Women Lawyers came as the Directorate of Criminal Investigations began probing claims that mothers at the maternity wing are raped at night. “Fida calls upon the government and the management of KNH to beef up security in the hospital and its surroundings and other public facilities,” chairperson Josephine Mong’are said yesterday. More on this : Why rape breastfeeding mothers? KNH on spot after public outcry She said patients should expect the highest standard of care and must feel protected while vulnerable as inpatients. “Fida Kenya firmly believes this particular trend is attributed to several factors which require urgent fixing by the government,” she said in a statement. DCI investigations began on Saturday after chief executive Lily Koros on Saturday asked the police to help. No suspect has been arrested and police have not said if anyone has recorded a statement. Koros said KNH is conducting its investigations and will hand over its findings to Health CS Cleopa Mailu by close of business today. Koros said no incident of insecurity has been reported to the hospital. She spoke on Saturday as women MPs visited the hospital. Led by parliamentary health committee chairperson Sabina Chege, the MPs said they established security loopholes and administrative negligence. Also read : KNH CEO Lily Koros writes to DCI for probe into rape claim Others were woman reps Irene Kasalu, Esther Passaris, Liza Chelule and Gladys Wanga. Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuda was also present. The MPs said unlit corridors and the distance between the new mothers’ wards and the nursery puts them at risk when going to breastfeed at night. The mothers’ wards are on the third floor, while the newborn unit is on first floor. “The mothers come at night and they are not accompanied by any security guard. The few who are around are always asleep,” Chege said. The mothers must nurse their babies every three hours. They visit the newborn unit at 6pm, 9pm, midnight and 3am. “They [mothers] say they have had incidents where they meet mortuary attendants ferrying bodies at 3am,” Chege said. Click here for the latest political news