Prior to the August 8 General Election the NASA rank and file could be heard chanting in many of their rallies “wakiswear tunaswear” (if they swear in [Uhuru] we will swear in [Raila] too). NASA vowed to swear in their leader Raila Odinga and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka should President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President Willilam Ruto take the oath of office. NASA successfully challenged the results and the Supreme Court nullified Uhuru’s victory. The court ordered a afresh poll on October 26. Read : Uhuru Park is the only option, Magaya says as Raila supporters arrive Raila pulled out of the repeat poll, citing failure by the IEBC to institute reforms. NASA accused the electoral agency of being reluctant to open its servers for scrutiny. Their attempts to be enjoined in petitions challenging the President’s victory were thwarted, after the Supreme Court dismissed two petitions on November 20. NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya said they have a range of options including swearing-in Raila. The push to swear him in began to gain traction. Raila’s supporters refused to recognise Uhuru’s victory, calling his government “illegitimate”. Read : Uhuru Park closed indefinitely with days to Raila swearing-in County assemblies in NASA strongholds passed the People’s Assemblies motion. NASA had planned to swear in Raila on the same day with Uhuru. They also planned to hold a requiem mass for 58 supporters they claim were killed in the post-poll chaos. The event was thwarted on November 28. Police lobbed teargas and blocked NASA supporters and leaders from accessing Jacaranda Grounds where the oath was to take place. Raila later announced he would take the oath on December 12, but called it off. This was to give way for talks. Religious leaders and envoys led by US envoy Robert Godec and former Nigerian leader Olusegun Obasanjo offered to broker talks. NASA insisted on electoral reforms and fresh polls. For Raila, today’s event is a personal determination to register his protest of election theft in 2007, 2013 and 2017. For other NASA principals, it is about their presidential bids in 2022. Click here for the latest political news