The cause of the death of a 9-month-old baby after receiving a measles injection at Mogogosiek Health Centre in Konoin, Bomet, will be known in one week. Government pathologist Titus Ngulungu, who conducted an autopsy at Tenwek Hospital on Thursday, said he will sent the samples to the Government Chemist. Addressing the press after the procedure, Ngulungu said he had conducted a thorough examination. The specimens are in the custody of security officers and will be forwarded to the chemist, he said. Bomet health officers led by director of medical services Bernard Sawek, Konoin subcounty health officer Nixon Mutai, Konoin DCIO Felix Mutua supervised the exercise. Family members were present. Officials from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board and the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency where the vaccines were sourced, were also present. “We will wait for the findings and inform the concerned parties what killed the infant,” he said. However, Ngulungu said all findings for toxicological and biological studies will take time since the examination was being done elsewhere. Mutai allayed fears that the vaccines had expired. He said county health officers checked the expiry dates of all bottles. “We have the bottles of all used and unused medicine and we can confidently announce that they have not expired. We have even kept them safe... their expiry date is 2021,” he said He went on, “This is a rare condition. We cannot say it is only happening in Bomet since there was a similar incident in Kapenguria some years back over the same vaccines.” Sawek said the County Government of Bomet will assist the families of all the children affected. “We are going to support the family who lost their chi until they bury and also all the other families who have their children hospitalized at Tenwek and Kapkatet hospitals,” he said. He further said immunization of all children will continue in all the health facilities in the county as planned and has not been stopped as reported noting they only recalled the particular medicine. Click here for the latest political news