The acute water shortage and rationing in Thika and its environs will end once a Sh850 million water project is completed in two years. Thika Water and Sewerage Company chairman Joseph Mukora yesterday said the project will ensure unlimited supply. Mukora said the company is undertaking the project near Mary Hill Girls High School. It will provide 15,000 cubic metres per day.  the project is project is funded by the World Bank through the Water Services Regulatory Board. The project is in the procurement stage and once completed it will enhance water supply in Kiandutu, Kiganjo, Kianjau, Muthara and Athena, which have been greatly affected by the current water shortage and rationing.  Mukora said the company has been struggling to fill water demand in the region whose population has vastly increased. He said the company supplies 37,000 cubic metres per day against a demand of 45,000 cubic metres.  “We have a deficit of eight million liters of water per day to supply to Thika residents but this will surely be cancelled once the project is completed,” the chairman said. For the past few years, Thika’s population has surpassed 200,000, thereby outstripping existing capacity for water supply and sewage collection. “We have started projects to overcome this shortfall,” Mukora said.  The company has earmarked eight boreholes that will be drilled, equipped and upgraded to add 6,000 cubic metres per day in the system.  They include the boreholes at Kimathi Estate, Victory Plaza (CBD), Makongeni, Maryhill, Bendor, Maki and Section Nine estates.  The Maguguni and Gatuanyaga borehole reticulation system will be upgraded with interconnection work done to the Kimuchu and Thika Primary School boreholes.  “We are doing everything possible to ensure that our clients have enough water for domestic use,” Mukora said. Managing Director Moses Kinya said they have initiated the Mobile Field Assistance programme in meter reading to improve transparency and accuracy in billing. This follows numerous complaints from a residents that the company has been inflating bills. “Residents have been paying bills calculated on estimates and not the actual meter readings,” Kinya said.  “This means many of them have been undercharged for services. The new billing system will ensure locals will not be overcharged or undercharged,” Kinya said.