Uniqueness is the root of confidence.
The understanding of your difference from others, how your difference works,
the advantage it gives you and how it empowers you to positively impact the
world – would change your perspective about confidence. The study of uniqueness
opens you up to insights into the subject of confidence. Your confidence is
first established within you before its seen outwardly. Self-confidence is
trust in your uniqueness (or, difference). Since confidence is based on uniqueness,
a good place to start growing in confidence is to explore your uniqueness.
Remember, self-confidence is discovered, so explore. Dig deep into yourself and
find out more about your superpower. Confidence is not a feeling – yes, you
eventually feel it. But, its source is knowing who you are. Appreciating
yourself on a deep level. Here, you don’t need things. You are enough. Another confidence booster is knowledge.
A narrow mind is seldom confident, especially in our modern world. So, take
steps to expand your scope about life. Read books, travel, meet different
people, try out new things – explore the variety that life offers. Go beyond
the limits of your family, culture, profession – live more. As your mind grows
in scope, insight and experiences, your confidence grows. Furthermore, build your life on
principles or laws. Universal laws do not fail, and this gives confidence. For
instance, we’re safe when we respect the law of gravity – it never fails. So,
what principles or laws govern your thinking? What principles govern your life?
The application of these laws produces specific results without fail. They are
results you can always count on. Hence, a life built on specific fail-proof
principles will be a life of confidence. If your confidence is consistently low
over a prolonged period, check your association. The saying is true that,
“birds of a feather flock together.” Eagles fly with eagles. So, who are you
flying with? Who do you spend time with? If they are chickens, you won’t have
eagle confidence. That’s for sure. The people around you boost or burst your
confidence.  Email:
etoolbox@theyouideology.com