HAS President Uhuru Kenyatta adopted a new policy? We
are told that the Head of State has told all those around him that there is
only one Commander-in-Chief, one government and one ruling party. The new
mantra, we are told, is what is informing the President's daily decision-making
process. It is understood that Uhuru wants to assert himself and personally
deal with anyone who may want to sabotage his Big Four agenda and legacy.  JUST why did Nyeri Town MP Wambugu Ngunjiri tell off Gatundu South
MP Moses Kuria regarding Central
Kenya's support for Deputy President William
Ruto in 2022? We are told the first-time MP was speaking for many when he
said the region's support was not automatic. We hear that many leaders from the
region are unhappy with Kuria because he purports to speak for them when no
consultations have taken place.  THAT 13 Cabinet Secretaries do
not know their fate is no secret. It is, however, secret what some of them are
doing behind-the-scenes to try and get their jobs back. Three Cabinet ministers
have been telling whoever they think can help them secure their jobs that they
will pay back handsomely if those people convince the President and his deputy
to retain them in Cabinet. If you are a broker, this is the time to make your
kill.  SO what happened to the
construction of a 700km wall to separate Kenya from Somalia? These are the
questions that some rights activists were heard asking after the Shabaab raid
in Lamu last week. They wondered why President Uhuru Kenyatta has failed to unveil a roadmap for the return of
Kenyan soldiers from Somalia yet the ragtag militia has internally turned Kenya
into a playfield. Al Shabaab reportedly roam around Lamu without much hindrance
and last weekend even had the luxury of sitting down some Lamu villagers to
administer a radical lecture. It’s also reported that they took over a police
station and hoisted their flag for hours after they had ambushed Kenyan Police
on patrol and laid waste two patrol vehicles.  A former flamboyant MP from
Western Kenya is the talk of the town. Reason? A female MP was heard
complaining that his wife is no different from socialites who post all manner
of things about themselves on social media. The woman is reported to have
posted her pictures with her belly exposed to show her pregnancy. It’s said
that before her husband lost badly in the last election, she would accompany
him on parliamentary committees abroad and even ask questions on official
legislative work. That is when she was not swimming.