 IS there a stand off in the Presidency concerning the naming of the remaining Cabinet Secretary positions? We are told that while President Uhuru Kenyatta was ready to complete the exercise on Tuesday, the announcement was held back after Deputy President William Ruto arrived in State House. The two held discussions that are only known to them that have sparked off speculation that the two are not agreeing on who should be appointed to what position in the Cabinet. STILL on matters Cabinet, an outgoing Cabinet Secretary is very stressed. The woman, who was at some point “very tight” with an influential State House operative, does not know her fate despite assurances by the operative that she will return to Cabinet. We are told that the CS believes the operative is no longer influential enough to guarantee her a job at the high table and so has resolved to lobby other people. A legislator from Nyanza is haunted by his holiday activities. Corridors learnt that the MP, who has been unreachable to his constituents for the past one month, was on holiday with a university student who was engaged to a son of a popular leader from one of the four Luo Nyanza counties. The leader has launched a manhunt for the first term MP and vowed to teach him a lesson whenever he sets his eyes on him. Our mole says the MP is aware of the cat-and-mouse chase, and rarely comes out in public places. He has also been avoiding his constituency office, something that has his constituents worried. TALK of unity of purpose. Four Rift Valley MPs, who went against their Jubilee leadership’s directive to land parliamentary committee chairmen positions, are more united than ever. Word has it that the lawmakers, led by Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, are always spotted moving together, especially at Parliament Buildings, as they plot how to fight their bosses moves to discipline them for going against their wishes. Our mole has told Corridors the MPs are always seen consulting in low tones on their next course of action in case their predators pounce again.  IS former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale still on the same page with his NASA chiefs? Well, Corridors attention has been drawn to his conspicuous absence from the last NASA People’s Assembly rally on his Kakamega home turf. Moments after, he took to his Twitter handle to express his disappointment with Raila Odinga’s oath-taking, which he claimed was being handled casually.        