The quarry broker who murdered his wife and three children before dousing himself and burning their house in Malaba estate, Juja, had financial problems. Patrick Ndiritu is also said to have been involved with another woman. Tabitha Njeri, a close friend of the family, said she had known them for six years. They stayed together on Kenyatta Road before moving to Malaba. Njeri said on Sunday Ndiritu’s wife Rosemary Kanini called and asked her to visit for prayers. Kanini was overwhelmed with stress and thought prayers would help. Njeri did not make it as she was busy in church. The two had been praying together from the time they lived together on Kenyatta Road. “Kanini and I believed in prayers. That is why she used to call me whenever she had problems,” Njeri said. love triangle Kanini recently told Njeri that Ndiritu was seeing another woman. Another family friend said Kanini had approached her, requesting for Sh300,000. The money was unavailable. A neighbour said Kanini had told her Ndiritu needed Sh1 million to supply bricks and make Sh4 million. The cash was not forthcoming. On Monday, Ndiritu killed Kanini and their three children Joe Muraga aged seven and four-year-old twins Jeff Mutua and Joy Wangui. Kanini had complained that the woman her husband was seeing had been calling her. An investigating officer said Ndiritu attacked his family with a blunt object, killing them on the spot. One of the twins had a cloth stuffed in their mouth to probably stop them from screaming. set himself ablaze The police said after killing his wife in the bedroom, Ndiritu went after each child in their bedroom and killed them. The man then doused himself in petrol and set himself on fire, burning the house as well. Rescuers who climbed into the compound could hardly save anything. Chief Muiruri Muchui and Witeithie AP commander James Dawai were at the scene. Residents jammed the compound to have a glimpse of the scene described as a “site of death”. Muchui urged Kenyans with family problems to pray and seek counselling, instead of killing each other. He said there has been an increase in such cases, which is a worrying trend.