Reading the body language of President Uhuru Kenyatta announcing his final Cabinet, the impression was one of a tired boss shoving away a frustrating memo. It was reminiscent of former President Daniel Moi cynically appointing George Saitoti VP on the roadside and telling those pestering him “to take it and see if it will increase your sufurias of ugali”. Or was Uhuru weary from talking censorship with some media simpletons willing to be shut down for daring live coverage of Raila Odinga’s swearing-in? Moi at least had the decency to insult with humour. Uhuru did not bother with such niceties. His was the image of an angry player about to snap in the pull-and-push of a corner kick. The player, blocked whichever way he positions himself, eventually gives in or feigns docility, then pounces to head the ball home. But Uhuru’s wasn’t the pouncing kind. It was lacklustre, uninspiring and lacking in conviction. A dull Uhuru convincingly went through seemingly handwritten notes with little enthusiasm and angry detachment. Eager to spin a ‘face of Kenya’ fable, he threw caution to the winds and selected ethnic men and women with no communal credibility or integrity. Unable to accommodate but eager to avoid the deceit label, he erroneously inserted the Chief Administrative Secretary post into a constitutionally ring-fenced executive structure, and tossed it to hungry politicians. Uhuru has committed constitutional larceny. He does not have the powers to reassign constitutional functions. There simply isn’t a supporting law to create a state office. To create an office in public service, he must religiously follow the Public Service Act. The cruel joke on Kenyans is that the CAS is a return of assistant ministers by fiat and unconstitutional usurpation of the functions of Cabinet Secretaries and Principal Secretaries. Barring court stoppage, this cruelty will haunt Uhuru in equal measure when the CAS monster begins to forage. The CASs will not assist the CSs when they are angling for the CS goodies, while the PSs are unlikely to accept ‘interference’ from illegitimate CASs. Five years will zoom by in catfights. The CAS is ill-positioned between the Cabinet and PSs. The “consultations” with the PSC should have meant enacting a law on state offices or following the Public Service Act in creating and advertising CAS positions. That the positions weren’t filtered by the PSC and their names forwarded to Parliament for vetting smacks of contempt for the law and pious impunity. That notwithstanding, the preeminent theory on Uhuru’s dull Cabinet denouement is the altercation over it with Deputy President William Ruto, who has suspiciously kept off the supporting cast role. Merely being away has cast aspersions on the temerity of the President to act alone and on the authenticity of the Cabinet. And true, these matters shine through the colourless ensemble. But that isn’t the issue. Analysts are blindsided by Ruto, who’s perfecting capturing the state, controlling power axes and state systems levers from the shadows. In Uhuru I, Ruto played crude, contesting for appointments; for every Uhuru nominee Ruto was granted an equivalent. This aroused vindictive conflict with Kikuyu power brokers who saw in it an ungrateful herdboy angling for gatekeeper of state resources. Assuming the next five years are all about Uhuru’s legacy and not Ruto’s succession is dead wrong. In Uhuru II, Ruto has smartly pulled back from the limelight, feigning disinterest in the Cabinet choices. Unlike in Uhuru I when he zealously stood by his Kalenjin brethren, Ruto is playing proxy cards, fronting names from other ethnic groups in the knowledge his Kalenjin and the larger ‘pastoralist’ vote bloc is intact. Within the bureaucracy, Ruto stealthily captured the system; his buddies control key institutions. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet was untouched in recent security sackings. From majority leaders to whips, Parliament is in the DP’s grip, notwithstanding the speakers are Uhuru cronies. The DP is moving to head off Kikuyu betrayal and losing nothing of value. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com