A row has erupted between Butere ACK Bishop Tim Wambunya and Butere Girls High School board over a suspicious land deal. The bishop is alleged to have entered into an agreement with developer Julius Mwale to build apartments on school land. Proceeds would be shared with the school for 25 years. As part of the deal, Mwale, who is the brother to Butere MP Tindi Mwale, will contribute Sh85 million for construction of a new cathedral in the diocese.  The bishop denied the allegations. He said. “I don’t wish to comment until we have a meeting to clarify issues,” he told the Star on the phone yesterday. He said the controversy was being stoked by a group of people fighting development. Construction stalled 10 years ago, despite successive fundraisers. It is estimated to cost Sh150 million. Efforts to reach principal Damarice Atieno and Mwale, bore no fruits. They did not answer calls or respond to text messages. Sources told the Star the apartments are meant for doctors and nurses who will work in the 5,000-bed hospital under construction at the Mwale Techno City, Lunza.  Trouble over the land began early last year, leading to the transfer of principal Dora Okaal. She resisted division of the land.  “The bishop wanted part of the land for development, but the principal told him to ask the board. Instead, he came with surveyors who planted beacons,” Harry Wamubeyi, the church’s finance committee chairman, said. The board uprooted the beacons, angering the bishop. The developer cut trees and build a road through the school without consent.  Wambunya wrote to the TSC last year seeking the principal’s transfer, but the commission found no compelling reason to do so. “He asked Deputy President William Ruto’s wife, Rachael, the school’s Old Girls’ Alumni chairperson, to intervene,” Wamubeyi told the Star. Her involvement triggered many changes. Wamubeyi accused Wambunya of being a dictator. He said he has not shown them the agreement.  Marama South MCA Willice Opuka said local leaders will not allow conversion of a public land into commercial property.  “Butere Girls’ is a monument set up by missionaries as their headquarters in 1911. It is a national school and has a lot of significance to the community,” he said.