I have just played the recording for the prude. He has incriminated himself on tape and I have him by the balls. It’s only a matter of time before he gives in to my demands. “I’ve heard enough!” he snaps. “What do you want?” “I told you,” I say calmly. “I want Sh 2 million in cash.”  “You’re a real piece of work,” he says quietly and lights another cigarette. He looks at me above the curling smoke, his eyes slowly darkening with rage. This feeling of intense, violent, growing anger will not turn him against me. Not here. We are in a public place after all, what can he do?  “It’s very simple, really,” I say. “Get me the money and I’ll delete the recording.”  “What will you do with it if I refuse?” he asks.  “I’ll send it to your wife,” I say. “And I’ll put it all over social media to accompany the sex tape.”   “You bitch!” he spits out.  I lean back into my chair, confident that I have him where I want him. They always get like this, angry at first and then they pay. It worked the same way with the VIP and GG. “Do we have a deal or not?” I ask, sounding bored.  He stands up. “We have a deal. I’ll have your money in an hour.”  I suppress a smile. “Meet me here. I’ll wait,” I tell him. I’ve pulled it off. Again. I’ve gotten quite good at this. I watch as he walks away looking defeated. Poor fella. Time to give Mr N a call. He’ll be happy.  “It’s done. He’s getting the money,” I tell him. “Good,” he responds and hangs up.  Good? That’s it? You’d think he would have more to say considering I’ve just made him a million. I beckon the waiter and order a drink. Might as well celebrate.  Two hours and three drinks later, the prude has not yet returned. It’s now 4pm. Where is he? I’m beginning to get worried. I keep my eyes glued to the door, willing him to walk through it. I notice a lady walking in. She seems around 45 years old. She’s well put together and quite elegant-looking. She looks around, spots me and makes a beeline for my table. She sits, uninvited.  “Hello, Samantha,” she says. “Hi,” I say. “Sorry, but have we met?” I ask, confusion masking my concern.  “No, but I believe you’re waiting for my husband,” she says. “He tells me you have a recording of something you’d like me to hear?”  Wait. What? “I-I’m not sure what you mean,” I say.  “Oh, come now, dear girl,” she says. “You’ve just threatened to expose his infidelity to me and to the world so we thought we’d spare you the trouble of trying to find me. Here I am.”  Oh, my dear Lord. He has called my bluff. What do I do now? She continues speaking.  “What, you didn’t take into account is that I’m the one with the money, not him. He couldn’t pay you that kind of money if he wanted to.” Why didn’t Mr N know this? This is his friend! It sounds like the prude has confessed everything to his wife. I’m still speechless and feeling exposed, like a deer caught in headlights. The prude’s wife, however, is totally in control. “Go ahead. Play me the recording,” she says. “And thereafter post it wherever you like. I don’t care. You don’t get to screw my husband and get my money. No way. Not one damn shilling!” 