Kenya Police and Telkom sealed this season’s Kenya Hockey Union men and women Hockey Premier League titles respectively over the weekend. Telkom humiliated Multimedia University 6-0 at City Park to lay hands on their 20th title without tasting defeat and with two matches to spare. The evergreen Jacky Mwangi was on target four times as her race to winning the golden stick remained on course. Mwangi netted in the 21, 23, 33 and 37th minutes to complete as Audrey Omaido and Jane Ofula added a strike each in the 30 and 60th minutes respectively. Telkom head coach, Jos Openda, has now shifted his focus on the forthcoming Africa Club Championships to be held in Ghana. Openda said his side is prepared for the task ahead and mostly importantly, to defend their crown. “It’s good we have won the league although our mission to finish the league without conceding a goal was not achieved. We now shift our focus to the club championships where we are going to defend our title. The girls are ready and soon our final traveling squad will be out,” said Openda. On the other side, Kenya Police were crowned the new champions on Saturday following a 6-1 win humiliating of Kenyatta University Vultures. Police head coach, Kenneth Kaunda, said: “We are happy to be crowned new champions although we wanted to win it without losing a single game.” Police recaptured the title from Strathmore University Gladiators. In other matches played yesterday, Butali Warriors beat Kenyatta University 3-0 while Vikings played Kenyatta University to a barren draw in the ladies tie. Meanwhile KHU Chairman Nashon Randiek retained his seat in the federation’s elections held over the weekend. After long court battles and controversy over external interference, the delegates re-elected the incumbents in an event where the media was unwelcome. Randiek bagged 12 votes to floor Inderjit Matharu, who had five. Mike Malungu will deputise Randiek after beating Bernard Mwangi to the deputy president’s seat. Godfrey Bill retained his treasurer’s seat following a 13-5 win over Ruth Wangeci. Wycliffe Ongori also retained his secretary general’s post with 12 votes, seeing off Thomas Olal who had five. Jane Nyamogo retained her fixtures secretary’s post where she got 12 votes, seven more than her opponent, Jap Akweri.