    Less than 50 per cent of the 2,000 Kwale students who qualified to join Form One have been enrolled in various schools, education director Brigit Wambua has said. Wambua said enrollment was still low despite the one-week extension for Form One admissions. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Wambua said they were concerned about the poor rate of transition to secondary school. “The deadline
extension had near zero impact. Some schools have admitted less than five students," Wambua said. At Madago Secondary School in Msambweni, only two students had been admitted to Form One. The school has a student population of 60. Parents in the area have been blamed for not prioritising their children's education. Most parents told the Star they do not have fees to take their children to school. Golini resident Kache Mangale said his daughter Rebeka Mwaka was yet to report to Mazeras Girls due to lack of fees. "Only those who score 350 marks and above get bursaries," Mangale said. Rebeka got 309 marks. She is expected to pay Sh20,000 upon admission. Said Mwarahani also failed to join Form One due to lack of fees. The boy who scored 323 marks at Kinarini Primary School was called to join Kwale Boys High. His mother cannot raise the fees.   She claimed to have failed the first term fee of
Sh20, 000 and shopping expenses that are why her daughter has not yet reported
to school. She pledged to the government to allow head teachers
have form ones admitted without insisting on clearance of fees as most parents
are poor. “If they say that we take our children to school
even today and we will clear the fees in installments, I am ready as they will
have helped us a lot,” she said. Mangale said that her small scale business of
selling boiled maize cannot fully cater for her daughters fees as her elder
child is at the university and she pays the fee with the same business. “I went to seek bursary but we filled application
forms and we were told to wait. But that is not enough since what we will get
for secondary school is not more than Sh10, 000,” she added. The situation was the same to Said Mwarahani who
scored 323 marks. His hope to go to school has totally dimmed. Mwarahani scored 323 marks at Kinarini primary
school but her mother cannot afford to pay for his school fees. However, some parents have said that students have
not reported to the other schools yet as they are waiting for a selection to
the two nationals schools in the county as they are termed as the best. “Most of the children called to join the extra
counties schools are still at home as they wait for opportunities at Matuga
Girls and Kwale high as they are the best schools in the county,” Mwanapili Nyawa
said.