There is no vacuum in Nairobi's leadership, Senator Johnson Sakaja has assured residents after the deputy governor's resignation. Polycarp Igathe resigned on Friday saying he couldn't get governor Mike Sonko to trust him. Members of the public wondered if his was a bold move or one that signaled doom for the capital. More on this: Courageous or cowardly? Kenyans ponder Igathe's resignation Also read: Igathe made us look like quitters, youths says after split from Sonko Noting leadership comes with resignations and marriages with differences, Sakaja said the matter will be addressed. "The positions we hold are never for our own comfort or convenience but for the people we serve," he said at Gathiruini Primary School on Saturday, during the funeral of the mother of Mt Kenya University chairman Simon Gicharu. The lawmaker said the Senate will review unclear sections of the law and come up with ways to fill the positions of Nyeri and Nairobi deputy governor. Nyeri's Mutahi Kahiga was sworn-in as governor after the death of Wahome Gakuru. Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu caused laughter when he said he and his deputy James Nyoro won't resign despite a relationship that is not cozy. Since Igathe resigned, there has been speculation that the same fate awaits Kiambu. But Waititu said: "Deputy wangu hataresign hata kama tuko na shida hapa na pale. Tutatoboa tu (My deputy will not resign even if we have problems. We will make it)." At the funeral that deputy president William Ruto attended, Waititu, Senator Kimani Wamatangi and MPs Gabriel Kago, Jude Jomo, Moses Kuria, Kimani Ichungwa and Nganga Kingara promised to back him in his bid to take over from president Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. The leaders eulogised Alice Wambui as a hardworking, prayerful and dedicated mother whose children make great contributions to the country. "The greatness of people is known by the kind of children they bring up," said Sakaja. Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, his Energy counterpart Keter and Energy PS Joseph Njoroge also attended the ceremony. Click here for the latest political news