The year 2017 was very eventful year characterised by the holding of two presidential elections motivated by the annulment of the presidential election held on 8 August 2017. As we closed the year the fractious environment in the national body politic emanating from the highly competitive elections defined the national fabric. Deep-sited emotions betraying mistrust along the political formations underpinning the NASA and Jubilee party brigades mirror the state of the nation. This is not healthy going by the fact that the entrenched feelings of legitimacy and illegitimacy of the governance dispensation define the political divide. The political rifts emanating from the elections were evidenced on the floor of the house. The political impasse derailed the house business when the NASA coalition dilly-dallied in the nomination of members to the various committees and house leadership. This greatly affected the legislative agenda and the house was moribund attributed to the political uncertainty and lethargic approach to issues. The second round of the presidential campaigns coupled with the withdrawal of the NASA coalition equally plunged the country into more upheaval and unrests. The secession talk by the NASA coalition negatively impacted on the political scene and attracted negative sentiments from the Jubilee leaning side and stoked embers of excitement on the proponents. The judiciary suffered the credibility test in the eyes of both political formations entailing NASA and Jubilee. When the petition seeking the annulment of the August 8 elections was made, the judiciary had to prove its mettle going by the fact that it had become a punching bag to the NASA coalition following the 2013 verdict. The pitch was the petition was a chance for the judiciary and the Supreme Court in particular to redeem itself. The annulment of the presidential elections based on the premise of the mode of transmission opened a new war front with the Jubilee leaning political formation. The famous ‘we will revisit ‘statement by the president was a pointer to the feelings of disenchantment towards the institution. An affirmation of the presidential vote win in the petitions filed against the October 26 th elections changed the tide but the deep undercurrents defining sentiments towards the judiciary cannot be ignored going forward. The executive has had entrenched uncertainty in the year 2017. The practice of having the cabinet secretaries and principal secretaries being political appointees makes it a delicate balancing act. This is because most of the members of the executive holding the positions spent most of their time campaigning for the government for an assured retention of their positions as opposed to service delivery. The formation of a new cabinet is already in the cards and much remains to be seen in terms of the lucky members who will be retained and those who will be dropped. Indeed one of the tasks that President Uhuru Kenyatta has to carry out in the beginning of the New Year is the formation of a new cabinet. This will be the defining moment for the country in terms of making and shaping the legacy that the president seeks to leave the country. Kenyans are anxiously waiting for this there are speculations that some of the serving cabinet secretaries could be dropped while others could be retained. The need to inculcate professionalism, the political arithmetic influencing the choice of the office holders and related persuasions may influence the face of the new cabinet. The risks of political backlash emanating from the appointments and the gerrymandering accrued from the feelings of entitlement and related causes may open up new war fronts politically. For the president and his deputy, it will be a delicate balancing act to entrench the presidents’ legacy and at the same time bolster the deputy’s case in the 2022 general election. The four-point agenda unveiled by the president during the Jamuhuri day celebrations whereby he promised to dedicate focus on food security, housing, manufacturing and healthcare will define the medium-term plan of his last presidential term. The president will ultimately seek to work towards attaining his plans and vision for the nation. He will seek to cover the lost ground in the wake of the protracted electioneering period and the uncertainties around the election years whereby we have depressed economic activity and the politics taking centre stage. The ideals of the four-point agenda for the nation can only be realized at the event of reduced polarization politically and simmering of the temperatures. Much focus will thus be trained on the political front as a measure of economic stability and the holding together of the country as a united nation. The hardline position taken by the NASA brigade of swearing in the people’s president and the secession talk bandied around at the behest of having a people’s republic and the Republic of Kenya stoke the embers of political uncertainty. How long it is that the crusade and clamour for the swearing in of the people’s president can hold is also in question. This is because other than giving hope to the restive support base of the NASA political formation, even the proponents of the idea know it is not feasible. The failure to provide a common agenda appealing to the members of the NASA parties and their affiliates beyond the secession and the “assumption” of power talk may be the Achilles heel of the formation. This is because of the lack of a common cause the party may risk disintegration.  Going by the signs of the times whereby some members of parliament have questioned the feasibility of the idea and the internal political competition amongst the NASA member parties the risks of fallouts in the forthcoming year may be imminent.   In the Jubilee party formation, succession politics are bound to take centre stage. With the exit of the president from competitive politics by virtue of the constitutional demands, a void will be left in his traditional support base of Mount Kenya region. Many politicians will naturally start positioning themselves to catch the deputy presidents’ eye for consideration from the region. Cutthroat competition by other political formations keen on making some imprints in the area may be rife. A measure of politicians trying to assert themselves with a view of winning favour and good standing with the establishment will ultimately take root in the region. In the western region whereby we have high population density and numbers in terms of the registered voters, we are bound to experience a lot of political activity especially so by the jubilee party. This is after the fairly good showing in the August 8 elections. The deputy president may tend to entrench himself politically in the region and he may play the guessing game of political machinations of dangling carrots as a measure of making inroads in the area. Activities geared towards turf protection in the pastoral areas, the Central, South and North Rift will also ultimately be enhanced by the ruling party. This may occasion the risks of an overbearing sense of entitlement by the leaders in the areas and they may try to extract capital in form of seeking “development’ in their regions for assured support and related practices. The lower eastern, parts of Nyanza entailing the Kisii and Nyamira regions may equally experience political realignments. New entrants may be born and other politicians may switch allegiances with the future in mind. This is because the regions do not have the traditional hard line positions deeply entrenched in the populaces as regards political support. Much may occur in the year 2018 but the defining mark will be, how will the president deal with political dissent especially at the event of deterring detractors in his final term? Will he employ kid’s gloves or will he play hardball? At the legislature in the two houses of the senate and the national assembly, the defining moment will emanate from the ability of the leadership from both political formations giving direction to their lieutenants. Will the parties sacrifice the entrenched positions and persuasions for the greater good of the nation and legislate objectively or will the divisions and rifts continuously be a source of friction? Time will tell but in politics, the players have a way of closing ranks when they want to. The judiciary is the hallmark of dispute resolution and interpretation of the law. The question is will the public sentiments from both sides of the political divide wane and have the nation appreciate the institution? Will the judicial officers enjoy the goodwill from the political players and other members of the society? Ultimately 2018 will be a defining year for the Republic of Kenya and the tenacity and resilience of the people of Kenya will be tested as regards healing the nation and living up the cheer and goodwill despite our political differences.   The writer is the current Muranga county Senator and Deputy Chief whip know the Senate. 