Per statistical data from the Kenya National Bureau
of Statistics, used cars make up about 80% of the vehicles on our roads. Further, about 99% of vehicles imported on an annual basis are used cars. While
over the past five years an upward trend has been noted in the car market, with
more cars being imported year over year, the statistics pertaining to used cars
have remained largely the same. Looking deeper, the
cost of importing a vehicle, particularly in relation to the attendant taxes being duty, excise and value added tax is relatively high, with import
duty standing at 25 per cent, excise duty at 20 per cent and VAT at 16 per cent. All factors
considered, the attendant cost of importing a vehicle brings the total cost of
the vehicle to almost double the CIF price. With this in mind, it is
no surprise that Kenya’s car market is dominated by low-priced second-hand
vehicles. This large appetite for cheap used cars,
however, comes at a cost. With the average age of vehicles on Kenyan roads
at 15 years, maintenance is definitely an issue. Older cars require
frequent, and sometimes costly repair. Further, low fuel efficiency due to wear and tear serves to increase the day to day costs faced by consumers. Even more critically, our environment is also in harm’s way, with older vehicles producing higher carbon emissions. To reduce the number of unroad
worthy cars, import rules state the criteria to be met in
order to import a vehicle. The vehicle must pass a safety and mechanical
inspection, be a right hand drive, and less than eight years old. While it has been argued that the eight year limit is fair to the middle and
lower class that may not afford newer cars, this is still little too old. With this in mind, earlier last year Kenya proposed to reduce the age limit to
five years across the East African Community region. Unfortunately, other EAC members rejected this
idea, noting that Kenyans have higher purchasing power and therefore can import
new vehicles, as opposed to our neighbours. In the Kenyan context, given the
high tax rates imposed on imported vehicles, reducing the limit without
reducing the tax would make the cost of vehicles unreachable to most Kenyans. In the interest of ensuring that vehicles
on our roads are road worthy and not pollution hogs, focus must be placed on
ensuring that newer vehicles are accessible to the average Kenyan. To this
effect, import taxes could be cut down, thus enabling vehicle age limits to be
effectively lowered. Further, by introducing carbon emissions taxes on
vehicles, older, pollution hungry vehicles will naturally be phased out.