A resilient Albert Njogu registered a 6-4,7-5 win over Great Britain’s Matthias Ross to sail to the quarter-finals of the ongoing Nairobi International Junior Championships staged at Nairobi Club. On a day where his counterpart and eighth seed Ryan Randiek went down fighting to Luca Castagnola of Italy, Njogu posted a crucial win which ensured there was at least a Kenyan representative in the last eight. Njogu, who recently featured in the pre-Davis Cup tournament over the weekend, where he downed the reigning Kenya Open champion Duncan Mugabe, proved is recent feat over the Ugandan was no fluke as he floored the skilled Briton to book a place in the quarters. Njogu, a former East Africa junior champion, had a turbulent qualification to the quarters as the Briton put a spirited fight in either sets. The home boy had to race from two games down in the opening set to level matters in the fourth game before adding two more for a 4-2 lead. He lost the subsequent two games for a 4-4 all before settling for the final two games to clinch the set. Proceedings were stiffer in the final set as the Briton returned with vigour, determined to restore parity. Exasperated by the set he lost, Ross claimed the first three games but the winning tempo was cut short by Njogu, who reduced the deficit to a game by winning two games for the Briton’s 3-2 lead. Ross picked two more games and was set to win the entire set but Njogu showed his class by forcing the game into a tie break at 5-5 all. The break was Njogu’s defining moment as he outclassed the Briton to sail to the final eight. Following the win, Njogu expressed his desire to win the tournament as well as improve his ranking. “It was really a tough one for me as my opponent kept on pressing. The Pre Davis Cup gave me confidence in facing any opponent and I want to keep on winning and hopefully, I will win the tournament. I want to improve my ranking and the best way is to keep on winning.” While it was sweet victory for Njogu, it was a bitter pill to swallow for another Kenyan Ryan Randiek as he lost 7-5,6-2 to Luca Castagnola of Italy to crush out of the tournament. Randiek couldn’t improve his first leg record, where he bade farewell to the tournament at the third round and fortune was not on his side as he lost the second leg at the third round. He said: “Once again, I am disappointed that I could not make progress to the final eight although I learnt a lot. It’s the nature of the game and I hope to come back stronger in the third leg.” The sole Kenyan girl remnant in the tournament Angella Okutoyi was due to face Ksenia Shikanova of Russia yesterday evening.