Kenya Premier League (KPL) debutants Wazito have unveiled their new playing unit ahead of their maiden top flight season. The runners up of the National Super League had their preseason activities wrapped yesterday before releasing their playing unit with all new signings in the mix for the new season. Earlier on, the club had acquired the services of Sammy Itemere as their patron, replacing the long-serving Solomon Alubala. Bringing Itemere on board was viewed as the best bridge to the corporate world for sponsorship and remedy for financial sufferings. The University of Nairobi affiliated team released a 29-man squad for the domestic league and the KPL top eight tournament with the chief executive officer, Luthers Mokua, hopeful of starting the top tier with a bang. The administrator said: “It’s a great team for us. We replaced players who left for other clubs and those who retired.” A statement from the clubs official website read: “ Wazito are determined to compete strongly in all competitions they will be involved this season and beyond. At the end of the season, the team lost the services of Dennis Gicheru, Zachary Gathu and Johnstone Omurwa to other teams. Bob Mugalia, John Mabia, Paul Karuri, Cresten Mwanzo and Reuben Munyao were released. Moreover, Kenne dy Okanda, Wycliffe Wanjie, Sekou Dore, Dickson Ihaji, Milton Onyuna and David Otieno retired from competitive football.” At the technical bench, Manager Frank Ouna will be assisted by Ahmed Mohammed, Abdul Salim, George Midenyo, Marcel Oile and Zachary Ogada. The club administrator and team manager remains Bramwell Makotsi, Psysio is Dominic Asio and the kit/equipment manager Eric Obare. Wazito will kick off their campaign againist Sony Sugar this weekend. Full squad: Goalkeepers—Philip Odhiambo, Eric Ogwade, Steve Njunge, Edwin Mukolwe; Defenders: Marvin Onyango, Emmanuel Tienan, Athman Buki, Brian Odhiambo, Luis Tumba, Mark Odhiambo, Oliver Kilonzo, Dan Owino, Dominic Oyando, Ricky Obiero; Midfielders: David Oswe, Samson Ndegwa, Patient Lukige, Eric Odhiambo, Haron Nyakha, Moses Otieno, Salim Akatha, George Owiti, Chris Opondo, Joakim Omollo; Strikers: Francis Ochola, Ibrahim Mao, Joe Waithira, Kenneth Wendo, Kennedy Ayako Pistone Mutamba.