The government will next month begin updating data in the class one laptops with E-content that is relevant to the new curriculum. It will include the soft copies of books and illustrations to be used under the new curriculum. This comes after more than 160,000 teachers handling the pre-primary and lower primary pupils were trained on the rolling out of the digital learning skills. According to the Deputy President William Ruto more than 700,000 Class One pupils out of 1.2 million have received tablet computers under the digital literacy programme. Speaking to the Star, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru said the ministry was working with content creators to inculcate learning materials of the new curriculum into the tablets. Mucheru also noted that Jomo Kenyatta University of Science and Technology (JKUAT) had partnered with Kenya Private School Association (Kepsa) to ensure private institutions also benefit from the laptops project. The deal with JKUAT will see the university manufacture about four million devices for the next three years at a fixed price of Sh15, 000 per device. The devices will be distributed to over 11,000 private schools throughout the country and are expected to benefit over 1.8 million pupils. Mucheru said learners needed to be prepared for a successful adulthood in a world increasingly saturated with digital technologies. “E-content will provide a foundation for teachers and learners that connects theory and practice to cultivate their understanding of digital pedagogy and support their development of digital literacy skills." Mucheru said. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development CEO Julius Jwan said the new technologies adopted in the new curriculum will not only change how students learn, but how teachers teach. “As digital immigrants, we have to figure things out as we go along. The good news is that we also happen to be the first generation of teachers with the unique opportunity to shape how our students - digital natives - use and engage with digital tools and technologies in positive ways that can help them become successful digital citizens,” Jwan said. The Digital Learning Programme (DLP) was initiated by the Government of Kenya in 2013. The programme is targeted at learners in all public primary schools and is aimed at integrating the use of digital technologies in learning.