Kakamega county has halted the disbursement of the ward development fund and education bursaries to needy students. The move could likely put Governor Wycliffe Oparanya at odds with MCAs. He is said to have met MCAs last week and told them there will be no more disbursements to wards for development as well as education bursaries. “The governor was categorical that those in need of bursaries should approach the national government because only early childhood education was devolved and that is what he wants to concentrate on,” said a source who attended the meeting. Oparanya could not be reached for comment, but his adviser, Musa Chibole, said the government will concentrate on its devolved functions.  No ward fund Chibole said the county has never had a ward fund. He said what exists are ward-based projects which are identified by committees in the wards and forwarded for implementation by the executive. “What the governor is trying to encourage everybody to do is to have things done as per the rules,” he said. The county spends Sh120 million on education bursaries. Each ward receives Sh2 million. The current financial budget allocated Sh10 million for each of the 60 wards for development.  No bursaries? Other MCAs said the governor feels that after NASA and Jubilee promised free education and it is being implemented, there is no need for bursaries. The scrapping of the two disbursements will affect MCAs as they have been using the funds to reward political supporters and the ward projects for visibility.  Projects in wards will now be implemented by the executive and overseen by the ward administrators. MCAs have started formulating a law that will guarantee the ward fund. Lurambi Central MCA Liston Ambundo has drafted the Kakamega County Ward Development Fund Bill.  The bill seeks to compel the county treasury to allocate at least 15 per cent of the county budget to the Kakamega County Ward Development Fund annually for implementation of ward projects.  Exercise in futility The bill establishes the Kakamega County Ward Development Fund Committee. However, the ward rep’s fresh attempts to protect the ward fund could be a mission in futility after Oparanya declined to assent to a similar bill passed by the previous assembly in 2016.