Poor patients will continue to suffer at 78 county hospitals that lack drugs and other essential medical supplies. The hospitals have been operating without medicine for more than six months after the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority stopped supplies because of a Sh285 debt. City Hall says it will not clear the dues until the bills are audited. Last month, Health executive Hitan Majevda said he would negotiate with Kemsa to resume supplies as the county prepared to clear part of the debt. But yesterday, Majevda said the county leadership had decided to first audit all pending bills to determine if they are genuine before paying them. “All pending bills will be audited. This was the position even yesterday [Monday] when the governor talked in Mombasa,” he said. It is not clear how long the audit will take.  patients referred Meanwhile, the 78 public hospitals have been referring patients to private facilities for laboratory tests and medication. Most residents have complained that services at private hospitals are too expensive. On Monday, the county government moved to court, seeking orders to be allowed to audit all pending bills before it pays its creditors. It is represented by lawyers Elias Mutuma and Thomas Letangule.  3 million lack cover City Hall’s liabilities on June 30 last year stood at Sh56.52 billion. This includes debts to statutory bodies, suppliers and contractors, long-term loans, contingent liabilities and employee benefits. Dilapidated structures, poor management and staff shortage have plagued county facilities for years. More than half of residents — about three million people, mostly slum dwellers — have no medical cover. They pay for their medication out-of-pocket and rely on public health facilities. Last year, Majedva initiated talks with the National Hospital Insurance Fund to introduce special health cover for the three million poor residents. This was meant to reduce payment for the scheme to Sh200 from the minimum Sh500 monthly subscription. Most residents have been avoiding county facilities because of poor services. Some go to Kenyatta National Hospital, a national referral facility. In 2016, Health CS Cleopa Mailu said his ministry would support City Hall to improve its facilities to ease congestion at KNH.  