New divisions are rocking NASA following some of its MPs’ move for all members to sign affidavits to affirm their commitment to Raila Odinga’s swearing-in. Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC secretary general Barack Muluka has been criticised for terming the signing of the affidavits blackmail and assault on parties’ freedom. NASA chief executive Norman Magaya and the coalition’s western coordinator Khalid Njiraini said Muluka’s position won’t derail them from having Raila take oath on  Tuesday next week. Read: 100 MPs sign up to support Raila oathing sympathiser and sycophant Muluka on Saturday wrote an opinion in a local newspaper questioning the procedure and legality of signing affidavits by NASA members yet none of the four affiliate parties were consulted. Njiraini yesterday demanded Muluka to apologise to NASA within 24 hours. They accused Muluka of being a Jubilee “sympathiser and sycophant.”“It is time he makes up his mind whether he is in NASA or Jubilee. We as NASA demand total loyalty. We believe he is one of the proponents angling dialogue so that they can be given slots in this illegitimate government,” Njiraini said. He dismissed Muluka’s claims that there is divergent opinion in NASA on Raila and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s swearing-in.Some 120 MPs had signed the affidavits by yesterday afternoon. Read: Why NASA swearing-in affidavit is futile and laughable“Signing of this document acknowledges that one understands the Constitution, fully supports the People’s Assemblies and recognises Raila and Kalonzo as the President and Deputy President of the People’s Republic,” Njiraini said. Magaya termed Muluka’s position as “useless sideshows and gossip” and that NASA is focussed on having their leaders sworn in.“Even when we got Raila as the presidential candidate, there were divergent opinions, but we had one candidate and moved on. This is useless sideshow. We have a project on electoral justice to execute. We have no time for anything else,” he said. Muluka, however, told the Star he stands with what he wrote and that he will not apologise to anyone.“An institutional document I must sign together with others must be one whose origin is known, whose origin must be institutional and whose origins are formal,” he said. Read: NASA MPs have up to Monday to sign affidavit Click here for the latest political news