Four embattled Jubilee House committee leaders will be removed next week after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto bulldosed their members to dismiss them. Jubilee leadership in the National Assembly yesterday said members of four committees will pass a vote of no confidence in the three defiant committee chairmen and a vice-chairman on Tuesday to allow fresh election. The election seeks members to rubber-stamp names of Uhuru and Ruto’s four preferred MPs. They will lead the committees in what they term the party’s commitment to regional balance in sharing government and parliamentary positions. Alfred Keter (Labour), Silas Tiren (Agriculture), James Kaguya (Library and Broadcasting) and Environment committee vice chair David Bowen are to be voted out. MP Keter (Nandi Hills) defeated Ali Wario (Bura), Gakuya (Embakasi North) floored Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Tiren (Moiben) defeated Adan Haji (Mandera West) and Kangogo (Marakwet East) floored Sophia Ali (Ijara). Majority leader Aden Duale defended the plan to remove the four following State House orders after Uhuru and Ruto summoned them on Thursday. “Jubilee believes in inclusivity in the leadership of Parliament. We are following the procedures of the law. Documents to remove the four are already with the clerk,” Duale said.  no confidence A vote of no confidence in a committee chair or vice-chair, according to the provision in the Standing Orders, must be supported by a majority of members. They need to state grounds for the sacking for the clerk to conduct the election. “They are entitled to remove their chair or vice chair at any given time through a majority vote. Regional balance in sharing the position is the reason members have signed the motion,” Duale said. The members have been told to dismiss the defiant chairs on the pretext that they were not in their “right senses” when the voted them in. “The members desiring to make a resolution ....shall, through the clerk, serve the chairperson or vice-chairperson with a written notice citing grounds for the intended vote of no confidence,” the Standing Orders say. Clerk Michael Sialai shall identify a venue, date and time for the committee meeting within seven days and conduct the election by a secret ballot after the Speaker allows the motion to proceed.