In the lead-up to the 2008 US election, Barack Obama started to make headway in snatching victory from the then favoured Hillary Clinton. Obama was a little-known first-time senator from Illinois, who had made a political splash during the 2004 Democratic Party Convention. And being a Kenyan living in the US, and one who served in a Washington, DC, fundraising committee for Obama when he was running for the US Senate, I did not believe he was ready for election as President. Along many others, I threw my support behind Clinton during the Democratic primaries. This was a very uncomfortable and awkward position for anyone, especially those who strongly believed Obama was destined for the US presidency but simply needed time to get the chops on how Washington works before diving into the race. Put another way, while Obama and those who were rooting for him from the very beginning believed he had what it takes to win, many others believed Clinton was the more qualified candidate, besides having a chance to become the first female US President. As the primaries wore on, things got from contentious to worse between the two camps, and eventually to outright hostility. So much so that there was so much bitterness after the Obama candidacy morphed into an unstoppable tsunami, that a section of the Democratic Party women calling itself “Party Unity My A**” said they would actively campaign against Obama in the general election. Obama not only went on to win the primary against all this bitter opposition from within, but also floored Senator John McCain at the election.  Clinton bitter loss at the 2008 Democratic primaries set the stage for her return in 2016. But this time round, she was not as popular, both within and outside the party. She had essentially overstayed her welcome, aided by a relentless smear and torturous campaign against her, centered around the use of a private email server for official business, which Republicans, among other things, milked to death in paving the way for Donald Trump to win the presidency. Democrats who did not vote for Clinton are now whining and suffering like everyone else for helping elect Trump. Like Obama in 2008, RailaOdinga handily defeated his main opponent at the August 8 election. And, unlike Obama, Raila’s election was stolen, leading to the historic nullification of the presidential election. However, rather than participating in the fresh election ordered by the Supreme Court, Raila boycotted and asked his supporters not to come out and vote. NASA has now called for, and are determined to establish, a parallel government, albeit one without the instruments of national power. In so doing, Raila and NASA have created a very awkward and uncomfortable situation among some of their supporters akin to that that existed among many of Obama supporters in 2008 who liked him and wanted him to be president but felt he was prematurely forcing the issue rather than waiting his turn. Fortunately for Obama, he tore the playbook and embarked on and completed a campaign strategy that not only saw him win the primary, but did so convincingly even those who were initially reluctant to support him, including this writer, saw the writing on the wall and backed him. Unfortunately for Raila, and the opposition, his otherwise superb strategy before and especially right after the August 8 robbery gave away the historic decision, and certainly removes every prospect of his having any meaningful impact other than what he can aget as a token from Uhuru. But he still has a formidable role in shaping the politics of 2022, which should now be the priority. With a legally sworn government in place, it’s impossible to imagine how not allowing UhuRuto to try and govern does not harm the country as a whole.     Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States