Meru Senator Mithika Linturi has moved to court to stop his possible arrest or prosecution over a fake university degree. On November 30, 2017, the University of Nairobi de-registered Linturi, days to his graduation, and revoked his law degree, following claims that he presented fake papers during his admission in 2014. Linturi, who sought court protection on Friday, wants conservatory orders staying the UoN’s decision, issued. He also wants the court to bar the Director of Public Prosecutions, police and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission from either investigating, arresting or instituting criminal prosecution against him. Read:Mithika Linturi asks court to stop arrest over fake UoN degree Through lawyer James Orengo, Linturi said he was apprehensive that he will be taken to court and charged before the truth comes out. He recently lost a bid to bar the university from de-registering him, just days to his graduation. Linturi was admitted to the University of Nairobi on January 3, 2014 and was to graduate on December 22, 2017 with a Bachelor of Law degree. Earlier, he accused his political opponents of the troubles facing him. Linturi told the court that police and the DPP were planning to institute criminal cases against him, based on incomplete and scanty investigations. ULTERIOR PURPOSE The aim of the proceedings is to annul his election as Meru senator. He said the move to drag him to court is also meant to deny him an opportunity to hold public office in future. “The intended prosecution has ulterior and extraneous purpose whose predominant objective is to end my political career as a senator and to close any opportunities for me in future,” Linturi said. He told the court that he was afraid of losing the four academic years during which he undertook studies at the university and the chance of furthering his education. “There’s a likelihood that I will not be able to pursue higher academic qualification or undertake courses at the Kenya School of Law in order to be enrolled as an Advocate of the High Court,” Linturi said. Linturi accused rival Mugambi Imanyara, a respondent in the case, of using state organs to harass and intimidate him with the ultimate objective of benefiting from his removal from office. He wants the court to stop the police from summoning and declaring him as unfit to hold public office. Also Read:Linturi loses bid to graduate with UoN Law degree Click here for latest political news    