Four years ago as the county governments settled down, many rushed to seek out foreign investors. Many costly trips were quickly organised targeting the industrialised nations in Asia and the Americas, ostensibly to make contact with wealthy investors. Many counties staged spectacular investment conferences and invited hundreds of local and foreign investors to showcase the best of their county resources and opportunities. In one of the investment conferences organised by the Kisii government, deals worth millions of shillings were signed by visiting investors that by now would have turned around the prospects of one of Kenya’s fastest-growing counties. Homa Bay, Machakos and Meru counties all organised their own investment conferences. Unfortunately years after spending millions to host top-notch investor parades there is nothing to show for the money. While many investors want to make deals with the county governments, it has become difficult to move deals signed to the next level following a bureaucratic blockade erected by the national government on how counties and foreigners should relate. Some of the initiatives by investors who have attempted to return to follow up on the deals signed with the counties have been sabotaged by powerful individuals in the national government. These individuals suggest diversion of some of the projects to other counties, thus dampening the spirit of the sponsoring investors, who take their bids elsewhere. I agree that it was a good idea to have the deals between the counties and foreigners regulated to keep the devolved governments from falling prey to tricksters. In our midst we still have individuals, including leaders in the national government and at the counties, who believe that every White man they come across is an investor. We have painful stories in some of our counties where the governments’ have initiated deals with unscrupulous business people introduced to them by local conmen and ended up losing millions. However for the country to move forward, investment by foreign businessmen must be encouraged. Borrowing new ideas and wealth of experience from the other side is the easiest way to spur growth and industrialise. Through intergovernmental relations, the national government must come up with a way that will allow seamless interaction between the counties and investors. The county governments should be guided to come up with an internal mechanism of engaging foreign investors to avoid falling prey to swindlers. The national government should not be a hindrance to a relationship between the counties and foreign investors. Recently some Chinese investors who have shown interest in the fisheries sector in Kisumu are said to have become reluctant after national government functionaries contacted them and tried to discourage them. The national government must put in place structures to make the counties accountable for all public funds spent in initiating investments. The other day I took a trip to Vietnam, China and later Taiwan. In Taipei I met a Kenyan, Prof Kennedy Ondieki, who has established a brewery in the Republic of China together with his Taiwanese wife. Prof Ondieki was among the hundreds of investors who participated in the Kisii county investment conference in 2016. His brewery makes one of the most expensive wine brands in Taipei. I was shocked to learn that the wine made by Prof Ondieki, which is favoured by the rich residents in the city, is made from green tea leaves from Nyamache, Kisii county.