THE conspicuous absence of Raila Odinga’s elder brother, Oburu, at State House when EALA members
met President Uhuru Kenyatta on
Monday has raised more questions than answers. Many are asking why Oburu
skipped the meeting, yet the ardent ODM die-hard humbled himself before the
Jubilee bigwigs for the support of their MPs to join the hotly contested East
African Legislative Assembly. Oburu’s absence has elicited varied reactions;
some say his presence would have been a betrayal to NASA, which has said it does
not recognize Uhuru’s presidency. Others say, hilariously, that Raila barred
him from going to State House.  IT was Benjamin Franklin who said that tricks and treachery are the
practice of fools that don't have brains enough to be honest. Well, some Kenyan
elites seem to have learnt nothing from the saying. Sources tell Corridors that
some powerful people bought large tracts of land to push for the construction
of the second phase of the SGR on it. Maybe the President was aware of it or
not. But a pen pusher at the Lands Ministry who got drunk at a famous CBD
restaurant was overheard shouting that the powerful people bought the land to
sell it back to the government at exorbitant prices. Some even dictated the
prices to maximize the profits. Later, they mobilised people using part of the
proceeds to defend the construction of the SGR.  HAS Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula endorsed the
reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta
against NASA's will? The Bungoma Senator and NASA co-principal caused jitters
among coalition members after he allegedly appealed to Uhuru last week to
constitute an all-inclusive Cabinet. The remarks are said to have been made by
Wetang'ula during a meeting with the Ford Kenya women’s league on Thursday in
Nairobi. Some NASA politicians are now putting his commitment in doubt, amid
reports that he has kept on referring to Uhuru as President in his speeches in
the Senate. The opposition pundits have also accused him of double-speak and
casting doubt on his commitment to the scheduled end-month Raila Odinga and Kalonzo
Musyoka swearing-in.  A second term NASA MP from
Kisii is under siege. This is after the man surprisingly pledged his loyalty to
President Uhuru Kenyatta and
dismissed NASA Chief Raila Odinga's
swearing-in ceremony. The legislator was forced to leave several WhatsApp
groups after an unrelenting tirade over his flip-flopping character. Despite
quitting, the villagers have vowed to teach him a lesson. Sources whispered to
Corridors residents are never getting tired of adding him back to as many
groups as possible, just to express their anger. 