George Kinoti was on Friday sworn in as Directorate of Criminal Investigations director, while Edward Mbugua and Noor Gabow as Deputy Inspector Generals in charge of the National Police Service and Administration Police respectively. The National Police Service Commission on Thursday interviewed five people to fill the vacancies. For the DIG in charge of the Administration Police Service, the NPSC interviewed all the three applicants - acting DIG Gabow, director of planning and external linkages Dr Vincent Makokha and assistant IG Musa Kakawa. Read: I did my best as DCI, Muhoro says as Kinoti takes over The commission interviewed Mbugua and Kinoti as the lone candidates for their positions. Mbugua and Kinoti have been holding the offices in acting capacity since January 5, when Uhuru redeployed their predecessors Joel Kitili and Ndegwa Muhoro. NPSC  chairman Johnston Kavuludi said the two were the only qualified applicants. “We will submit the names to the appointing authority, who is the President, to determine who among those we have recommended gets appointed,” Kavuludi said. Other applicants for the position were lawyer Milka Cheptinga who applied for both DIG of the KPS and the DCI director. Cheptinga is an employee of the Uasin Gishu county government and a part-time legal consultant for an NGO. Other applicants were Nairobi-based police constable Bernard Ombati and psychologist Bernard Ngumi, who works with the Kenya Red Cross Society in Embu. Also read: New top cops start work with many unresolved cases Kavulundi said the NPSC invited applications for the the three vacancies on January 11, but only nine sent applications. He said Cheptinga, Ombati and Ngumi’s applications  were rejected because they are not police officers of the rank of assistant IG and above so are not qualified. He dismissed claims of Uhuru’s meddling in the appointment of the top police chiefs. Senior cops kept off the jobs and said they knew the recruitment was over immediately the President appointed Mbugua, Kinoti and Gabow in an acting capacity. Click here for the latest political news