Raila Odinga has no option but to be on the ballot in the 2022 presidential election, Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo has said. The NASA leader had himself sworn-in as the people's president on Tuesday and says he will not give up his quest for electoral justice in Kenya. His running mate Kalonzo Musyoka did not take his oath but he and Raila have dispelled speculation of differences and instability in the National Super Alliance. Kalonzo, chief campaigner Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula later said they remain "strong and united". In their statement yesterday, the politicians said they will continue to pursue electoral reforms and that they will meet within two days to address some of their challenges. More on this: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent Also read: Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth But Odhiambo said the absence by Raila's co-principals showed none of them is worth support in the next State House race. He noted ODM members "cannot afford to support cowards in 2022 when it's crystal clear that they are not up to the task". The legislator further said the three politicians demonstrated "the highest level of betrayal Kenya has seen since independence". "Why should we elevate cowards to the highest office in the land when our heroes Raila Odinga and [Mombasa governor] Hassan Joho are still alive?" he posed in a phone conversation with The Star on Tuesday. Related: Mombasa NASA supporters celebrate Raila's oath, want Joho to replace Kalonzo Odhiambo further said the absence should not be taken lightly as the three are positioning themselves for the 2022 election. "Kenyans have seen who they can trust with their votes and who can [go to any lengths to] champion their agenda." He added the inauguration showed who the people's president is and that the absence of the three co-principals scaled up Raila's prominence. Should Raila vie again, he will face politicians including deputy president William Ruto, who is to become the Jubilee Party candidate as Uhuru is ruling for his second and final term. Others who have declared interest in the race are Kalonzo, Wetang'ula, Joho, Machakos governor Alfred Mutua, Kilifi's Amason Kingi, former Meru boss Peter Munya. Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda said the other NASA leaders put up a bad show yet there is a desperate need for unity. Ochanda wondered why the three "had to lie to the public" in Homa Bay on Sunday, by insisting on Raila's swearing-in, "only for them to chicken out". They have shown the public that they are not genuine with voters, he said, adding: "Its regrettable that leaders of such stature can take Kenyans and Raila for a ride." Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi said Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have dug their own political graves. He said they should not be allowed to address any political rally. Mutua, who had warned that an illegal oath-taking would taint Kenya's reputation, mocked the Opposition on Twitter saying the event was bound to fail. "It's now crystal clear to all that Kalonzo Musyoka can never be trusted ... trust him at your own peril," reads part of his message. Also read: Raila oath will show world that Africa is a shithole, says Alfred Mutua Click here for the latest political news 