Kalenjin elected leaders, especially MPs and Senators, deserve condemnation and rebuke for betrayal of the community interests. The renewed gradual disowning of Deputy President William Ruto’s bid for the Presidency in 2022 by some Mt Kenya leaders refers. It is reminiscent of playwright Professor Francis Imbuga’s famous Betrayal in the City. Our legislators have buried their heads in the sand and sewn their lips as their Central Kenya counterparts shamelessly and arrogantly begin a chorus of denouncing the 2013 election pact between the Kalenjin and Mt Kenya blocs ahead of 2022. It would only be logical for the Kalenjin MPs, who support the DP, to remain alert and vigilant over the UhuRuto deal on the Presidency. The Kalenjin nation expects the MPs to readily rollout quick mobilisation and forceful rebuttal and condemnation of the Central Kenya antagonists behind this building betrayal. The unprovoked denunciation of the deal by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu mirrors similar past ones by former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and former Jubilee nominated MP Paul Njoroge. These people could not be madmen shouting empty words. Could they be on an assignment sponsored by the Mt Kenya top leadership to test the waters in preparation for the final assault? Why are they not being reprimanded, stopped or punished by their bosses, including President Uhuru Kenyatta? Some of us have always refused to blindly support the UhuRuto power pact that saw the Deputy President and his allies in Kalenjinland herd our community to abandon the opposition and support Uhuru’s election in 2013 and the 2017 reelection on the promise of reciprocation in 2022. From the beginning, it had all the hallmarks of betrayal in the offing. Our MPs are once more proving to be clueless, or at worst political weaklings, afraid to stand up for the community during critical moments. They should be at the forefront confronting their Mt Kenya counterparts, now reconstructing the political betrayal of other Kenyan communities, which has roots in misplaced belief in a section of their politicians of eternal entitlement to the Presidency, to the exclusion of other tribes. They should have energetically engaged in this matter to try and bring it to an end, otherwise it will aggravate and lead to bitter and crude betrayal and sidelining of Ruto in 2022. Similar political thuggery has been unleashed upon other senior Kenyan leaders from other communities and has bred the current ethnic bitterness and political tension in the country. Notable cases of Central Kenya tribal betrayal still haunting the country involved Jaramogi Odinga (Luo),Tom Mboya (Suba), Raila Odinga (Luo), Kalonzo Musyoka (Kamba) and Musalia Mudavadi (Luhya). And there were attempts to block Daniel Moi (Kalenjin) succeeding Jomo Kenyatta. So, it is time Kalenjin leaders led by the MPs stood up and spoke the truth to their partners in Jubilee and warn them loudly: “Kalenjins did not support Uhuru’s election and reelection to perpetrate political apartheid, discrimination and Presidency capture in Kenya!” That will earn them widespread respect not only in Kalenjinland but also amongst other Kenyan communities, who are angry at the tribalisation of the Presidency and the political torture unleashed by Central Kenya on leaders from other communities who vie for President. But again, DP Ruto should shoulders part of the blame. Many warned him many times in the past but he would not listen. He remained focussed on his selfish pursuit of the money being thrown his way by hissuitors. It blinded him from reality. However, it is never too late to make amends when something goes wrong. Ruto must now “smell the coffee” and return home. Like the Biblical prodigal son, the Kalenjin will forgive him and receive him to start afresh; though concerned and unhappy that he and Uhuru abandoned and neglected the development, welfare and security needs of the Rift Valley and Kalenjinland between 2013-17. And President Uhuru should be ashamed of the sorry state of affairs and tension his Presidency is subjecting the country to. Under him, a brazenly stolen election has shaken the country’s foundation, almost threatening to throw Kenya into a civil war and ethnic strife. In fact, it is only maturity, sensitiveness, foresightedness and remarkable restraint by the opposition leadership that Kenya has not degenerated into what we say in 2007-08. Unfortunately, the well-intentioned opposition olive branch to him to hold a national dialogue to save the country from looming ethnic and security disaster has arrogantly been snubbed. Why reject the best panacea that can save and heal the country? If Kenya tips and falls into an abyss, President Uhuru should be the biggest culprit. It is sad the President is recklessly fiddling and with the very vital national dialogue issue and the DP Ruto betrayal agitation at a dangerously delicate time in the country’s political history. His attitude is a clear case of “tempting fate”!   The writer Is a Nairobi businessman, deputy ODM branch leader and 2017 Keiyo South MP aspirant   