The one month stand off between Football Kenya Federation (FKF) and Kenya Premier League (KPL) over the composition of the country’s elite football league opened the year’s football calendar with the two bodies jostling for supremacy. The stand off, which was marred by several court injunctions saw the kick off dates pushed back to March 11 unlike in the past where the league would serve off in second week of February. FKF were anticipating for an 18-team league while their counterparts KPL were fighting for the retention of the 16-team format. FKF, however, had the last laugh as they got their way. However, the move led to the exit of the then broadcast partners SuperSport who closed shop, citing breach of contract. Besides the ugly contest between the two, the league was also delayed by clubs who had not fully complied with the club licensing requirements. The dramatic exit of the South African-based pay TV company brought to an end the airing of live matches in a move that hit KPL hard, having penned a 10-year long contract with SuperSport at an estimated Sh300m a year. Currently there is talk of betting form SportPesa—raising the question: Are we staring at another delay? With the supremacy battle between FKF and KPL solved, the league kicked off albeit on a low note. The electioneering period, however did not make matters any easy as the league was postponed twice, leading to fixture pile up in the second leg.  The then defending champions Tusker were humiliated 5-2 by debutants Nzoia Sugar beginning their title defence campaign on the wrong footing. Under the tutelage of a new coach George Nsiimbe, Tusker faltered in their subsequent matches, prompting a investigation into sabotage claims due to alleged lack of transparency in sharing dividends gained in winning the league. Complacency then became the order of the day at the Ruaraka-based club and hence finished sixth and failed to defend the league and the GOtv Shield. Nsiimbe paid the ultimate price of failing to match the standards of his predecessor Paul Nkata and was shown the door last October with his contract terminated last month.  The dip in form by Tusker lightened up Gor Mahia’s way of recapturing the title they had forfeited to the brewers. The fall of Tusker also saw surprise package Posta Rangers under Sammy Omollo, emerge and subsequently commanded the lead for the better part of the first leg. Gor, under the stewardship of Brazilian head coach Jose Maria Ferreira, had a successful first leg where they finished on top. In June, Gor crossed the border to Tanzania for the SportPesa Super Cup, where they beat their traditional rivals AFC Leopards 3-0 in the finals. The win granted them the golden opportunity to play English side Everton in a friendly match, which Gor lost 2-1 to Merseyside club. Weeks after claiming the Super Cup, Ze Maria resigned from Gor and headed to Albanian side, FK Tirana, leaving his assistant Zedekiah Otieno in charge. Gor subsequently brought Dylan Kerr on board to guide the boys in the remaining part of the season and the Briton played a key role in delivering the 16th Premier League title. Gor finished with 74 point— 19 ahead of second-placed Sofapaka. Second-placed Sofapaka but behind their pre-season woes to rise to title contenders. Prior to the start of the season, Sofapaka were facing relegation threat to Nationwide league after failing to comply with the club licensing statutes but secured souvenir licensing to guarantee them safety in the league. There was massive exit of senior players from the club, who protested unpaid allowances leaving a largely inexperienced playing unit. The exodus saw Sofapaka stay at the relegation zone for the better part of the first leg but things worked their way in the final leg after sealing an estimated Sh50m deal with betting firm, Betika. The move turned around their fortunes as the club brought in quality players who restored the fading image of the club with wins and eventually finished second with 55 points. From the three clubs promoted to the top flight, Kariobangi Sharks defied odds to finish third with 52 points. After receiving a rough welcome to the league from Gor Mahia in their first match, where they suffered a 3-1 loss, Sharks never lost hope and their patience paid them with a third place finish as well as runners up in the then Gotv Shield Cup. The club produced the year’s best goalkeeper John Oyemba and the league top scorer Masoud Juma. It was a year to forget for senior clubs Tusker, Ulinzi Stars and AFC Leopards, who finished sixth, seventh and eighth respectively. However, there was reprieve for Leopards who finished runners up in the SportPesa Super Cup and claimed the Gotv Shield to represent the country in the CAF Confederations Cup. Leopards began the season under Stewart Hall but the latter resigned in June after posting unsatisfactory results. His place was taken by Dorian Marin who handled Leopards for a week before paving way for Robert Matano who saved the club from the jaws of relegation. Finishing fifth was also a remarkable achievement by Kakamega Homeboyz. The latter, under Mike Mururi, finished fifth with 50 points. At the end of the season, Western Stima and Muhoroni Youth ended their ten and five-year stay in the top league as they dropped to second tier. The duo finished 17th and 18th respectively as their positions were taken up by Vihiga United and Wazito FC. Juma finished as the league’s top scorer netting 17 times—three more than Gor’s Meddie Kagere. Jacques Tuyisenge and new faces at Sofapaka Stephen Waruru and Kepha Aswani found the back of the net 13 times. Kagere bagged the Most Valuable Player of the league, receiving the button from teammate Kenneth Muguna. His club captain Musa Mohammed was named the defender of the year while George Odhiambo won the midfielder of the year gong. John Oyemba of Sharks was named the best goalkeeper of year with Sofapaka head coach Sam Ssimbwa being voted the best coach of the season.