Mobile operator Safaricom has failed to reach the minimum network coverage target of 87.5 per cent in atleast eight of the ten regions analysed by the Communication Authority. The eight regions include Nairobi, Western, Central, North Rift, South Rift, Northwestern, Lower Eastern, and Upper Eastern as revealed in the 2015/2016 Quality of Service (QoS) performance report by the authority that was made public on Friday last week. Of these eight, Western, Lower Eastern, Northwestern, and South Rift regions scored 50 per cent on network coverage. The rest scored between 62.5 per cent and 75 per cent. This means that chances for a subscriber to experience stable network signal strength from the base transmission station are lower compared to other operators. Telkom Kenya was the best performer, with full compliance in four regions that include Nairobi, Central, Nyanza and Western. Airtel came in second with full compliance in three regions which are Nyanza, Western and Nairobi. While that’s the situation on network coverage, the regulator also evaluated the call completion rate, call drop rate, call block rate, speech quality, call set-up time, handover success rate, and call set-up success rate. The evaluation saw Safaricom score 62.5 per cent, while Airtel and Telkom Kenya Ltd were rated at 75 per cent each against the required 80 per cent minimum threshold. Having attained below the minimum for the fourth year running, the three operators were fined a total of Sh311 million for poor quality of service in the period under review. Safaricom was the hardest-hit, with a total fine of Sh270 million. Airtel and Telkom Kenya were each fined Sh26.6 million and Sh14.9 million respectively. The fines are a sum equivalent of 0.15 per cent of their individual latest financial returns for the period prior to 30th June 2017. They were also issued with warning notices for non-compliance. “It should be noted that we, along with the other Kenyan mobile network operators, have expressed concerns regarding the quality of service measures used by the authority, we continue to engage them with expectations that our concerns will be met,” Safaricom said in its 2017 sustainability report. In November last year, the authority revealed that a new QoS framework came into effect at the beginning of the 2017/2018 financial year replacing the framework and methodology that has been in place since 2009. A look into the new framework reveals that in two years’ time, the operators will be required to send hourly updates of their services to the authority in two years as part of the regulator’s framework to monitor quality of services rendered to users. The telcos must also send their data on customers’ interaction with and quality of SMS, voice and internet to the regulator in a new framework to be implemented progressively in three years in line with the set Key Performance Indicators.    