Savvy traders dealing in T-shirts and caps branded 'Resist' made a kill in Homa Bay town on Saturday ahead of NASA leader Raila Odinga's rally. Opposition supporters bought the commodities in large numbers as preparations to welcome Raila and other NASA leaders hit a high gear. The ODM leader is expected to meet the coalition supporters during the Nyanza region People’s Assembly convention at a hotel in the town. This is ahead of the coalition's swearing in ceremony slated for Tuesday next week. Read: NASA to hold Raila pre-oath fete in Homa Bay on Saturday Speaking to the Star at the venue, Ogallo Aketch - a Nasa supporter, said they were buying the T-sirts and caps to show they are solidly with Raila. Aketch said they still observe calls for products and commodities' boycott as they were advised by NASA. "We don’t care about their prices of a t-shirt or cap. What we want is ensure we comply with what he (Raila) and co-principals advise." Aketch said they support Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka's swearing in as President and deputy president of the People's Assembly. "The high rate at which people are buying the t-shirts and caps show how much we love Raila," he said. Traders Jackline Atieno and Rita Nyasumbi said they are looking forward to making a good sale at rallies attended by Raila. Atieno said they sell a t-shirt at Sh1,000 with a cap trading at Sh500. "We normally go to public rallies attended by Raila and sell the caps to his supporters who always buy owing to their love for him," Atieno said. Nyakasumbi revealed they make a lot of sales in areas where Raila has strong support. "I have sold more than 700 T-shirts and 300 caps since morning and I hope to remain with few stocks at the end of the convention," Nyakasumbi said. The meeting draws political leaders and supporters from Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu and Siaya counties. The convention was moved to Homa Bay after stakeholders realised the lakeside town was centrally placed. Also read: August election results irrelevant, Uhuru tells Raila on oath plan Click here for the latest political stories      