NASA leaders have maintained that the planned swearing in of Raila Odinga cannot be stopped unless President Uhuru Kenyatta cedes ground for dialogue before January 30. The leaders, who addressed a rally in Machakos, said the oath will happen on ground there was no legitimate election on October 26. "We are following the August 8 outcome. Uhuru competed with himself in the October 26 poll," Raila told NASA supporters in the county. "We all know that most Kenyans boycotted the polls which showed that it was not a legitimate process," he added. Read: Ex-Nigerian President Obasanjo arrives for Uhuru-Raila ‘dialogue’ His sentiments were echoed by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka who stated there will be consequences of the government does not hold talks with them before the planned oath date. "I am warning all of us that if we do not hold dialogue between now and January 30, we will be forced to hold it when things are tough because there are consequences," he said. The former Vice President further cautioned that if there is active violence, Uhuru will be to blame for the same. He dismissed the state's threat against the oath saying the Supreme Court had ruled that capital punishment is unconstitutional. "Raila has seen jail and nobody is a stone. The cry for justice cannot and will not be washed away,"  Kalonzo said. Co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford-K) were present at the meeting. The crowds cheered as Kitui woman representative Irene Kasalu led a mock swearing in of both Raila and Kalonzo. Also read: UN sent Obasanjo to stop Raila oath, quell political tension The alliance is set to hold other meetings on Sunday for the Mombasa People's Assembly to bring together people in the Coastal regions. NASA has planned similar rallies in Kisii, Migori, Nyamira and Narok between January 22 and January 28. David Ndii, NASA’s chief strategist and Norman Magaya, NASA’s CEO have both insisted the coalition's supporters will witness their leaders take oath. Uhuru, in past remarks, ruled out engaging Raila in electoral reforms dialogue. He urged opposition leaders to stop politicking and spearhead development. The push for dialogue dominated discussions at a special session to deliberate over the Kenyan political situation at the European Parliament . The majority of members of the EU Parliament asked the two top politicians to demonstrate leadership by engaging in talks aimed at bringing the country together. They vouched for an end to the divisions that followed last year's presidential election. Read: EU Parliament to discuss Kenya's election during Tuesday debate Click here for the latest political news 