ARE there last minute efforts to persuade NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka from being sworn in? We are told that a number of
overtures were being made last night to get the two to drop their plan in
exchange for talks. Those in the know claim that although some Jubilee leaders
have indicated that they are willing to speak to NASA, we are told the
Opposition leaders are not taking any of them seriously. The only person whom
NASA want to talk to is President Uhuru
Kenyatta and the talks will be based on “electoral justice”. ***** IT
is an American songwriter and rapper
who once remarked that life is a crazy ride, and nothing is guaranteed. Yes,
nobody knows about tomorrow. Look, seven
former Cabinet Secretaries will now report to Ambassador Monica
Juma, who was a junior officer a few
weeks ago. Juma, who takes over as the CS for Foreign Affairs and International
Trade, was the PS. This means that if approved by Parliament, she will be boss
to the seven. These include former Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu, Jacob
Kaimenyi (Lands), Phyllis Kandie
(Labour), Judi Wakhungu (Environment),
Hassan Wario (Sports), Willy Bett (Agriculture) and Cleopa Mailu (Health). ***** STILL on the Cabinet, a CS
who survived by a whisker President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s radical surgery is in trouble. A group of activists are
planning to file in Parliament a detailed dossier that was prepared when the CS
was in her previous ministry. The allegations in the report range from
undermining of the National Bank, through acquisition of a huge loan from the bank,
largely owned by the State. It is believed that the dossier was prepared by the
NIS, but the State has refused to act on it. The only salvation for the CS, the
activists have vowed, is if Jubilee succeeds in ring-fencing a serving CS from
fresh vetting by Parliament. ***** THE police have capitalised on the spiralling insecurity in Nairobi to
make money and destroy the evidence of the organised criminal cartels operating
in the CBD. A top officer at a police station in the CBD was complaining that
despite hundreds of young men arrested, no one is prosecuted. They are all
released after bribing the police. And Corridors can quote him, “In fact, those
who are found mugging people are killed and yet the police have
always protected them in the lucrative business of stealing phones in
Kenya and selling them in Tanzania .” Click here for the latest political news