Land owners along the Lapsset corridor will be compensated starting February as the government moves to begin work on the eagerly awaited Vision 2030 flagship project. Residents have been given a 15 day notice to vacate their land as efforts to recover over 197,000 hectares of land for the massive project kick off. Already, some 28,500 hectares of land have been secured, with appropriate paperwork already with Lapsset management according to chief executive officer representative corridor development authority Silvester Kasuku. He spoke during the signing of an agreement between Lapsset and National Land Commission to pave way for relocation of those whose land will be acquired. The transport corridor is expected to drive economic transformation and mainstream northern Kenya into the national economy. The corridor will also play a role as an economic enabler targeting to open up the north to investment and trade while linking up the same to local and offshore markets in line with aspirations of the economic pillar of Vision 2030. Kasuku said the project will kick off after an equitable full compensation to land owners, after which project implementation agencies will enter the relevant sites to start surveying. According to LAPSSET, 97 per cent of the land set for acquisition is un-occupied since it is mostly communal land. They expressed optimism that the process of shifting present occupants will not be slowed down or lead to forced land acquisition. “The vacating of these people has not been without challenges,including entry of cartels who claim to have plots in the earmarked areas. We have to be extra vigilant when compensating. There are defiances by some residents who would rather remain in their lands than to see developments in their lands brought down,” NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri said. Investors in the Sh62 billion project are a consortium of international investors led by Development Bank of South Africa. Construction will including the Lamu port and ancillary facilities, Lamu special economic zones, Lamu international airport, Lamu resort city, Lamu port industrial zone, Isiolo resort cities, Isiolo International airport, Turkana resort city and Turkana international airport.