Three Murang’a MCAs have been taken to court following their arrest on Tuesday evening, hours after they allegedly brawled in the county assembly. Kimorori Wempa MCA Amos Murigi was arrested at Kenol town and taken to court that evening. Township MCA Jecintah Ng’ang’a and Kagunduini MCA Peter Mburu were locked up in Kahuro police station and taken to court yesterday morning. Earlier in the day MCAs led by Murigi, who was elected majority leader two weeks ago, attempted to assume office. They were confronted by current majority leader Eric Kamande. Chief magistrate Margaret Wachira ruled that Murigi be held in remand for two days to give prosecution time to complete investigations. She rejected Murigi’s plea to be released on free bond to seek medical attention for injuries sustained during the scuffle.  what chairman? The magistrate issued a warrant of arrest against six MCAs who were involved in the fight. They were Ng’ang’a, Mburu, deputy speaker Samuel Kihurunjo and nominated MCAs Stephen Chege, Beth Waithera and Joyce Wambui. Murigi was elected leader of majority to replace Kamande at a Jubilee Party assembly caucus meeting in Kiambu county two weeks ago. Wambui was elected chief whip to replace Simon Wamwea. The caucus turned violent. Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju yesterday nullified the changes. He said the party does not recognise county chairman Simon Gikuru and any changes he has overseen are null and void. Tuju spoke in Murang’a town, when he visited Governor Mwangi wa Iria. He said the party’s disciplinary committee will decide what action to take against MCAs who have engaged in three fights in seven weeks. He dismissed the caucus meeting. “The Kiambu meeting is null and void as it was convened by a chairman that is not recognised in the party,” Tuju said. He said Gikuru lost a lawsuit he filed to challenge his removal as county chairman. Tuju said the current party leaders are serving on an interim capacity, but Jubilee will hold a national executive council meeting next week to decide when to hold grassroots elections.