The Constitution of Kenya and various pieces of legislation thereunder provide a clear framework for the definition of the Republic; the process of election and swearing in of a president; the exercise of the sovereignty of the people and their representative structures; and the procedure for grievance settlement. Consequently, public discussions or indeed actions contemplated in this regard, must be undertaken within the four corners of the Constitution and the law. Any other contemplation would be unconstitutional and against the vital tenets of democratic governance. This view is guided by Article 2( 1 ) of the Constitution which provides that “The Constitution is the Supreme Law of the Republic and The President of the Republic of Kenya is elected pursuant to Article 138 of the Constitution. Following the constitutionally mandated repeat presidential election with Article 141 of the Constitution and the Assumption of the Office of President Act, notwithstanding the constitutional and legal outcome above, there are some misguided propositions being made, suggesting to hold an unconstitutional and illegal “swearing-in” of the NASA presidential and deputy presidential candidates in contravention of Article 3 of the Constitution. For the avoidance of doubt, Article 3( 1 ) provides that every person has an obligation to respect, uphold and defend this Constitution. Article 3( 2 ) provides that any attempt to establish a government otherwise than in compliance with the Constitution is unlawful. Further, any person acting in violation of Article 3( 2 ) commits a treasonable offence under Section 40 of the Penal Code. This also includes being an accessory after the fact to treason and failing to give information to designated public bodies for the purpose of preventing commission of the offence. It is derisive for a candidate who boycotted the presidential poll to seek power through the back door in total violation of Article 2( 2 ) of the Constitution, which states, “no person may claim or exercise State authority except as authorised under the Constitution”. I reiterate that any attempt to swear in any person as President other than one elected in line with the Constitution and in a manner provided for in the law is unlawful, illegal, null and void ab initio. People’s Assemblies have no legal basis in Kenyan law and as such they remain unlawful, illegal, null and void. Any action by county assemblies to establish a “People’s Assembly” is illegal as it is not anchored in any known law nor legally mandated within the framework of Kenyan law. Indeed, the creation of People’s Assembly is a claw back of the sovereign right of the people. The citizens of the respective counties vested their sovereign rights to their elected representatives during the General Election. By establishing People’s Assemblies, the respective county assemblies may be deemed to have rescinded their elected representative roles, as they have handed back to the people their sovereignty as initially delegated through Article 1( 3 ). Members of the said county assemblies may be construed to have vacated their seats, and the attendant consequences thereof. County governments and individual county assembly members enacting illegal, unconstitutional motions of this nature also stand the risk of suspension in line with section 123 of the County Governments Act and the possibility of fresh election in line with Section 130 thereof; the stoppage of funds to counties in line with Section 93 of the Public Finance Management Act for serious and material breach of the Constitution and the law for any and all expenditures incurred in pursuit of the illegal motions; the loss of representative capacities having ceded their representative mandate back to the people who elected them, and the calling of fresh elections thereof; and citation as being unfit to hold public office for material breach of the Constitution and the law under the Leadership and Integrity Act. The rule of law and functioning legal institutions are vital for good governance, which is essential to peace, security and development. The rule of law is the foundation of our Republic. We urge all parties to adhere to the rule of law and the pursuit of a greater calling. Indeed the High Court at Kitui in Petition. No. 7 of 2017, Counties Development Group vs the AG & 49 others issued an interim conservatory order pending inter parties hearing on January 25, 2018 restraining the county assemblies from constituting a special college for the appointment or election of members, delegation and observers to the People’s Assembly or in any way participating in the People’s Assembly implementing the motions tabled and moved before the county assemblies in any way changing the Constitution without complying with Article 257 of the Constitution. On October 26, 2017, an election was held and the result was affirmed by the Supreme Court. On November 28, 2017, the President-elect was sworn into office.