Kenyatta National Hospital workers clashed with women activists at the facility on Tuesday amid a fiery storm on allegations of rape. The allegations were raised last week but hospital boss Lily Koros said they do not have records of complaints. She said they asked the DCI to investigate but no woman has reported any incident to police. Read: Details: I didn't deny KNH rape claims, says Lily Koros Kenya National Hospital staff members during their protest against allegations of rape at the facility, January 23, 2018. /Rhoda Odhiambo  Activists who led a protest from Freedom Corner in the Nairobi CBD to Kenyatta National Hospital, January 23, 2018. /Rhoda Odhiambo As the probe continues, the workers have threatened to down their tools by close of business today if women who have accused them of sexual harassment don't file reports with police. The employees issued the threat as they faced the activists who want swift action to be taken. The groups sang while trading accusations, forcing police intervention. The protesters had marched from Freedom Corner in the Nairobi CBD to Kenyatta National Hospital with signs on the "shithole" state of healthcare. They noted it is difficult for victims of sexual assault to go to police and demanded that Koros and Helath cabinet secretary Cleopa Mailu resign. Mildred Owiso, a social media activist who made the allegations public, read a petition outside the hospital. It was later presented to the Ministry of Health. More on this: Activists want Koros, Mailu to resign over KNH rape claims  Police officers prevent women activists from getting into Kenyatta National Hospital during a protest that followed rape allegations, January 23, 2018. /Rhoda Odhiambo  Activist Mildred Owiso leads a demonstration on claims of rape at Kenyatta National Hospital, January 23, 2018. /Rhoda Odhiambo The workers are members of Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Educational Institutions, Hospitals and Allied Workers. They waved placards that read 'Bado mapambano' (The struggle continues) and demanded an apology from the organisers of the protest and the media. "Punda amechoka. Mmetuzoea sana (The donkey is tried. You have gotten too used to us)," workers committee chairman Pius Liboi told reporters outside the hospital. "If police say no one has come out [to report the claims], who is this who is making these allegations?" The workers shouted 'Mmelipwa! Mmelipa (You have been paid off)!' at the activists who shouted back 'Hatulipwi! Hatulipwi (We are not paid off)!' The medics noted they are professionals who should not be branded rapists and murderers. They further want the government to pay allowances detailed in their 2017 central bargaining agreement. Click here for the latest political stories  