NASA leader Raila Odinga is expected to make a "heroic entry" to Uhuru Park at 12.30 pm for his swearing-in as "president of Kenya". It had been said that he and Kalonzo Musyoka would become leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya but NASA chief executive Norman Magaya noted on Monday that they will become president and DP. National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi said that after the "heroic entry", Raila will give the way forward after being sworn-in as "President of the Republic of Kenya". "This is the day we have been waiting for. At 1 pm, Raila will take oath of office. He is going to give direction for this country. I don’t want to speculate," Mbadi said. Supporters of the National Super Alliance started arriving at about 6am, some having walked all the way from places such as Huruma and Kibera slums, which as Opposition strongholds. More on this: Raila supporters ecstatic as leaders arrive for oath, bees set ablaze Mbadi, who is Suba South legislator, did not disclose the whereabouts of the ODM leader but emphasised NASA will inaugurate their leaders minutes before 1 pm on Tuesday. The programme will start at exactly midday with prayers and entertainment and Raila is the only leader who will issue a speech - on the direction NASA will take. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto were sworn-in for their second terms on November 28 last year. This was the day when Raila announced his oath plans. Some leaders had asked the NASA principal to shelve his plans, as Kenya already has rulers, to prevent a crisis. Raila said he is ready to face arrest and treason charges, and even die, for the sake of a free country with a just electoral system. Read: I'm ready to pay for treason, Raila says after meeting envoys He spoke at the Nairobi park which he and several Opposition MPs inspected. But by 10.30 am, a public address system was yet to reach the venue and there were decorations as has been the norm. Nairobi streets remained deserted for the better of the morning with some shops closing their doors. Police patrols are at their minimum and none are at the park as they were withdrawn earlier today. However, The Star has seen close to 20 police and water cannon trucks parked at the Kenyatta International Convention Center, a stone's throw away from the venue. Mbadi condemned the government’s shutdown of television stations - Citizen, Inooro and NTV - just hours to the swearing-in. “This is very unfortunate. The Kenyan constitution, 2010 provides for media freedom," he noted. Details: CA shuts down Citizen, NTV ahead of Raila swearing-in Click here for the latest political news