Homeboyz utility back Oscar Ayodi will miss the Sydney and Hamilton Sevens legs slated for this month after undergoing surgery on his knee. Ayodi, who captained the squad for the two opening legs of the circuit in Dubai and Cape Town in the absence of regular skipper Andrew Amonde, underwent a minor procedure on his knee and will be available for the Las Vegas and Vancouver legs in March. The injury is setback to Ayodi, who missed huge chunks of last season, with similar injury problems. Team manager, Eric Ogweno, said the team resumed training in late December and last week and have intensified preparations for the upcoming legs of the world series. “We are back in training and we are gearing up for the next leg of the world series as we look to bounce back after not under-performing in Cape Town last month and attaining ten points as per our target,” added Ogweno Kenya face Argentina, France and Wales in Pool ‘B’ in Sydney and Ogweno said some of the issues addressed in training include game management which was sorely lacking in Cape Town. “You saw in France game, we were up 14-0 but we failed to control the tempo of the game and ended up losing 21-14. The margins in the game are very tight. We had an issue with our half-backs due to injuries so hopefully in Australia and New Zealand, we will have a settled paring ,who can control matches and win,” added Ogweno. He said competition for places in the 13-man squad is intense. Herman Humwa of Quins, Sam Muregi (Menengai Oilers) and KCB’s Arthur Owira are some of the players who earned their debuts in the opening two legs of the series and Ogweno was pleased with the progress the trio had made. “It was good blooding new young players and they have seen the rigours of Sevens rugby, which will aid in their development,” he added. The team will be named next week on Wednesday with departure to Australia set for January 20. Shujaa lie 11th on the standings with 13 points and have set themselves a target of 100 points and two tournament victories in the ten-leg series.