Since 2016, Lake
Baringo has been less and less bountiful to fishers. Despite
being the second largest lake in Rift Valley after Lake Turkana, it is facing
an acute shortage of fish. The lake
harbours five fish species, including tilapia, lung fish and cat fish. Tilapia
is the species commonly consumed by residents, but as climate change persists, it
is slowly disappearing from their menu. Talaa
Chepkong’a, 55, no longer feeds her family fish or pays her children’s school
fees from the proceeds of its sales. Her life has worsened after she closed
down her fishmonger business at Kampi ya Samaki trading centre, situated right
at the shore of the lake, in October last year. Speaking to
journalists on a fact-finding mission, she said fishermen no longer supply
fish, “forcing me quit my one-time booming business. Since then, I have just
been ‘hanging’ because I have never landed any income generating activity”. Chepkong’a
is among over 30 fishmongers, mostly women, bowing out of fish selling in Lake
Baringo due to the shortage. Another trader,
Zipporah Chelimo, said she used to sell 200-300 tilapia fish daily to local
consumers and tourists. “Today, I am struggling with the business. I only
sell 10-20 fish per day, earning money that cannot cater for my daily
needs and pay secondary school fees for my two children,” Chelimo said. She also threatened to
quit the business like her colleagues. She used to sell a tilapia fish at Sh50
when the supply was still high, but she is now forced to hike prices to Sh150
per sizable fish. Chelimo
said the new prices are scaring away her customers. Normally, the traders used
to export their fish surplus to big markets in Nairobi, Nakuru, Kabarnet,
Marigat and Eldoret towns, but now the supply has diminished. The poor, worried and
tired fishers have kept casting their nets in vain, without a bumper harvest in
two years. Ilchamus
resident Josphat Olekajos, 75, said the harvest used to be bountiful since
1961. “I don’t blame it on low water levels because since then, there has not
been an alarming reduction of water in the lake. Maybe it is something serious
about climate change,” he said, urging specialists to research. Olekajos said the
situation is getting worse by the day, while most people whose lives solely
depended on fish are getting desperately poor. “If the
situation is not addressed in the next three months, then I am worried about
the fate of most people in Kampi ya Samaki town,” he said. Olekajos said
there are many crocodiles wandering the lake, but they have never cleared the
population of fish.  ‘PANGA’ SOAP BAIT Due to
poverty, fishermen in Lake Baringo are notably spicing their fishing nets with Panga
soap detergent instead of meat to bait fish. “This has polluted
the water and kills the young fish in the lake,” Olekajos said. He said
this is always experienced when one eats the fish and feels the fresh taste of
the soap perfumes. Olekajos urged
the government to take strict measures to keep off fishermen doing careless
fishing. Baringo Fisheries
director Dickson Ongwai blamed the scarcity of fish on water pollution, climate change and emergence of water hyacinth, which covered
up to 40 per cent of the lake. “The county government has invested in clearing the
rapidly growing weed, but more needs to be done to eradicate it and control human pollution in the lake,” he said. He said the
lake is among the major tourist attraction sites in Baringo county. “We need to
fence around the lake to keep off water pollution caused by human activities,
and to protect people against crocodiles and hippos,” he said. Ongwai said
the department is urging residents to take up fish farming. He said residents should
diversify their economic resources from livestock. Thanks to the campaign,
more than 700 farmers, including institutions, are now running their own
private fish ponds.  CROCODILE
THREAT Apart from fish and other submarine species, Lake Baringo also harbours
crocodiles that put the lives of residents and their livestock at risk. On December
2, Joseph
Losute, 45, was hospitalised after being attacked by a crocodile at Katuit. “I
thank God I am alive. I was afraid I would die,” he said from his hospital bed. Losute said he was bathing
alone at the shore at around 8am. “All of a sudden, I felt a sharp grasp on my
right leg and I saw a big crocodile trying to kill me by pulling me into the
water,” he said. Losute engaged in a 10-minute
struggle, trying to free himself from the jaws of the wild, hungry beast. Nobody
even heard him scream. “I took a stone
and hit the crocodile in the head, and it finally freed my leg,” Losute said. Despite the
piercing pain, he pushed himself back to the lakeshore, where he screamed until
some people heard and came to his rescue. He was rushed
to Kabarnet Hospital, where he nursed some deep cuts and bruises on his leg. Medical
Superintendent Dr Stephen Kalya said he is now in stable condition. Kenya
Wildlife Service Baringo warden Dickson Tanui said he is not aware of the
incident. “I will task someone right away to go and follow up the case in the
hospital for action,” Tanui said. A secondary school boy,
Kemoi Nenengole, 14, was not so lucky. He was attacked at the same place, killed
and eaten by a crocodile in 2014, while trying to wade through the overflown
lake. The
deceased boy’s father Samuel Lengule, 70, said KWS is yet to compensate them
for the loss of their son, who was then in form two. Furthermore,
over 200 pupils of Katuit Primary School from Chepkenyon Island on the lake
risk their lives every day, as they cross the lake to and from school. Some use
temporary wooden canoes to cross the water, which equally risk being overturned
by crocodiles. Hundreds of livestock are
also killed and eaten by the reptiles. Lengule says hardly a day passes by before
locals report at least 10 to 15 goats, sheep or calves eaten by the water
beasts.