Turkana MPs on Saturday joined their colleagues in congratulating former Senator John Munyes following his nomination as Cabinet Secretary.  The legislators Christopher Nakuleu (Turkana North), James Lomenen (Turkana South), and Daniel Nanok (Turkana West) said they are happy with the development. President Uhuru Kenyatta, while unveiling changes in his administration, named Munyes, ex-Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani, and former DPP Keriako Tobiko as CS nominees. More on this: Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko and Ukur Yatani Also Read: Wamalwa, Kiunjuri among 13 CSs in limbo after Uhuru retains six "Having a Cabinet Secretary from Turkana is a good start for the county's development. I am sure Munyes will work to end the suffering of Turkana people," Lomenen said. He singled out water shortages as one of the key challenges they expect the minister to tackle once his nomination is approved by Parliament. Nakuleu said Uhuru made the right decision to appoint a cabinet secretary from the region saying this will see residents get services from the government. Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok has also congratulated three newly appointed Cabinet secretaries saying they deserve it. Munyes said its the honour to the people of Turkana county and a confirmation of the trust and confidence the president has to people of Turkana. "The people of Turkana will support your government in its endeavour to deliver services to all Kenyans, irrespective of party affiliation."  Read:  Separately, a section of
Elgeyo Marakwet leaders hailed Uhuru's move to retain National Treasury CS Henry Rotich in the newly reconstituted Cabinet.
 They
said the re-appointment is a sign of the president's confidence in
Rotich's work at the Treasury. Keiyo South
MP Daniel Rono said the CS showed his ability when he stabilised the
country's economy during the turbulent political
times occasioned by the August and October 2017 polls. "We expected Rotich's re-appointment. Our
only worry as leaders from this area was an inter-ministerial transfer during the reconstitution," Rono added. Deputy governor Wesley Rotich said the re-appointment was a reward to
the county after voting 98 per cent for Uhuru and DP William Ruto during the 2017
election. "We thank
the President for considering Rotich on his second term. These are the fruits
of voting 98 per cent for the president," Rotich said. Micah Kigen,
a key ODM and NASA point-man in Elgeyo Marakwet also congratulated Uhuru for
retaining Rotich. However, he asked the head of state to embrace dialogue with the
opposition to unite the country after the hotly contested elections in 2017. Kigen said
the President may not achieve his five-year Big Four agenda which include food
security, affordable housing, manufacturing, and affordable healthcare for all.
 "Please
embrace dialogue if you want you big four agenda to succeed,” Kigen who
contested for Keiyo South MP in an ODM ticket in 2017 said. Also read: Retain Matiang'i in education docket, KOT asks Uhuru as CS changes twitter profile Click
here for the latest political news  