Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo has ordered the immediate reopening of five schools in the terror-prone Basuba ward, Lamu East. The schools were closed in 2014 after teachers fled frequent al Shabaab attacks. They are Basuba, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe primary schools, and all border Boni Forest. They are located in areas occupied by the Boni minority community, which is considered marginalised. Kitiyo on Wednesday said security has been restored in Basuba and there is no reason why the schools should remain closed. Arrangements have been made to deploy teachers to the schools by Monday. Kitiyo urged parents to take their children back to school and warned of dire consequences for any parent who ignores the directive. He also directed the immediate reopening of Ishakani and Pandanguo primary schools in Lamu East and West. The two were closed recently following al Shabaab raids. Operation Linda Boni director Joseph Kanyiri said the areas are fairly safe. “Kenyans are entitled to government services and any one dithering in service delivery shall be dealt with. People should stop fretting, panicking and being timid to work in the name of security concerns,” he said. Kanyiri said he will appeal to the Teachers’ Service Commission to deploy teachers in Basuba. “Public servants shouldn’t hide behind insecurity so as not to report to work,” he said. sympathise Early this month, the marginalised Boni community in Basuba accused teachers of using “non-existent” insecurity to turn down jobs. Led by chief Yusuf Nuri, Boni elders said teachers were “over-emphasising the state of insecurity in the villages”. “As much as al Shabaab are a real challenge in the area, teachers need to show some sympathy for pupils,” Nuri said. He said the government has taken enough measures to improve security in Basuba and other parts of Lamu. So why is the education of Basuba children was still uncertain? Nuri asked. The elders said the government should come up with measures to post teachers to schools in the area. “I still don’t understand why schools here have remained closed while in the rest of Kenya, people are learning. There is excessive security in this area at this particular time,” Nuri said. 