Doctors who are not employed by the Ministry of Health or the counties cannot benefit from last year’s Collective Bargaining Agreement. The CBA doubled the salaries of all medics employed by the two institutions. It gave them new allowances, raising the highest pay to close to Sh700,000. Lecturers employed by universities medical schools complained they are also qualified doctors and wish to earn similar salaries. Health CS Cleopa Mailu said the CBA was signed between Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union, the Ministry of Health and Council of Governors. It applies to doctors employed in the two levels of government. “Lecturers in medical schools are not party to the CBA and we advise that they raise their concerns through their union to their respective employers [University Councils or the Ministry of Education],” the CS said in a statement. “The ministry has fully implemented the return-to-work formula and signed CBA for doctors and remains available for consultation, advice and guidance.” KMPDU threatened to call a strike next month, saying universities and medical colleges must also comply with the CBA they were not party to. Secretary general Ouma Oluga said the universities should also pay medical risk and emergency call allowances in arrears from January last year. Oluga said the will give the institutions up to January 31 to pay, failing which they call a strike. “Numerous engagements with the universities, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of health have not yielded fruit. That leaves the union with no option but a collective action of strike,” Oluga said in a press statement. There are more than 600 doctors teaching across various public universities and medical colleges. Some are full employees of the universities while others work on short contracts. Some of them double as consultants in referral hospitals, including Kenyatta National Hospital and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Last year, doctors went on strike for 100 days to push for higher salaries and allowances.