Only divine intervention will keep Kenya from taking the Sudan and Somalia routes, Kalonzo Musyoka has said. The NASA principal and Wiper party leader noted on Thursday that leaders must prioritise dialogue. The Opposition is planning to swear-in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya before January 31. More on this: [VIDEO] NASA, Jubilee talk tough ahead of Raila swearing Also read: NASA dares State to stop Raila oath President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto have been urged to hold talks with the two and their co-principals Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Kalonzo said: "I feel really pained about my country but I do not want to make any other plea. I think I have spoken enough. I am only but a Kenyan leader who feels concerned," he said. He noted he had pleaded many times for the top leaders to dialogue "but it appears I have been ignored". "Even the European Union met in Laxemberg and said dialogue among Kenyan leaders was not an option. I do not know why people are allergic to the truth. Kenya has gotten to a point where I throw my hands up and ask for God's intervention."  Edith Vethi with Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka after her clearance by the IEBC for the Kitui West by-election, January 25, 2018. /Dennis Kavisu Last Tuesday night, members of the European parliament debated the EU Observer Mission report on Kenya’s 2017 elections. The MEPs noted that sharp divisions following last year's elections still persist and the country remains divided. Marietje Schaake, the EU EOM Kenya 2017 chief observer, later urged Kenyan leaders and international partners to prioritise issues such as stronger rule of law, separation of powers, respect for independent institutions and the rights and freedoms of Kenyan people. Read: EU Parliament raised key issues on Kenyan polls Kalonzo said only God can save and hold Kenya together. "I I know God is going to do his things," he said, but added that it was wrong for the media to make it seem like he had issued the president an ultimatum to force him into talks. The Wiper boss added that dialogue is necessary at this time as it will be too late in future. "It will not be useful to hold dialogue in Kenya after things go haywire," he told a rallies at Kwa Mukoma play grounds in Matinyani and Kabati trading centre in Kitui county. It was reported on January 20 that former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo might have left the country without meeting Uhuru when he shuttled into Nairobi to broker a deal with Raila. But State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu told The Star yesterday there was no meeting request from Obasanjo. Details: Uhuru snubs Obasanjo call for dialogue Kalonzo earlier accompanied the widow of Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze to present her Wiper nomination papers to the IEBC at Matinyani. Edith Vethi was cleared. Three other candidates - Robert Mutiso Leli (Narc Kenya), Elijah Kilonzi (Chama Cha Uzalendo) and Dennis Muli (independent) were also cleared by returning officer James Mbai. Ekuru Aukot, who was Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate, took Muli to present his papers and said his party will support him as their manifestos complement each other. In his address to journalists, Aukot dismissed Raila and Kalonzo's inauguration saying: "That is just an irrelevance and pure crap." The politician further said NASA's plan was laughable because the original election was nullified by the Supreme Court and another one held on October 26, 2017. The Opposition withdrew from that election claiming the outcome had been pre-determined. Voting did not take place in strongholds such as Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori counties and Uhuru got 98 per cent of votes cast by 38.84 per cent of the population. Aukot said: "They are insisting on the swearing-in to manage the expectations of their supporters. If anything, I do not see that swearing-in taking place. I will not be surprised if they will be out of the country on that date." Click here for the latest political stories