Thika United head coach Nicholas Muyoti is seeking to strengthen their striking and defence ahead of the next season following the recent trials. “We mainly suffered in our finishing in our previous season and we have invited a number of players who will try out with us for a few days before we make a decisions. On the defence, we shall only beef up where necessary to add more depth in that department since two or three defenders will be leaving us,” said Muyoti on the club’s official portal. The tactician also warned that only those invited will be given a chance for trials. “As you know, we have a short time to prepare and we shall concentrate on only the two departments. We want to maintain a manageable squad of 26 to 27 players as the playing unit,” added Muyoti Thika expect to sign around six new players and part with about the same number or more, in a renewed effort to have a better season having finished at position 16th and forcing a nail-biting playoffs to secure a place in 2018 edition. The Kenyan Premier League (KPL) is scheduled to kick off on February 2 with Thika United slated to host Kakamega Homeboyz February 5 in their first match. Elsewhere, County champions AFC Leopards Youth were among the four teams feted by the FKF Nairobi West branch during the awards ceremony held at Cardinal Otunga Plaza. Others were regional champions Kibra United, women’s Division 2 champions Sunderland Samba and sub-county winners, Uthiru FC. Branch chairman Bashir Hussein praised the rising levels of competition but urged for better preparedness from teams. The four were recognised for having clinched their respective championships in 2017 with Kibra United earning special mention for going the whole campaign unbeaten thus pocketing Sh100,000 and a trophy. Boniface Ambani’s Leopards Youth were awarded Sh50,000 while both Uthiru and Sunderland Samba collected Shs 30,000 each. At the event, Football Kenya Federation vice-president Doris Petra revealed that Kenya has been selected as a pilot of a Fifa women’s development project beginning next year. About 160 million female players globally have been earmarked to join the game by 2026 and Kenya will be amongst the few to have the honours on trial basis.  According to the FKF second in command, Kenya’s 2016 foray in the Africa Cup of Nations Championship in Cameroon sold the country. “We are developing well with our women football affairs and it is no surprise that Fifa have taken note,” she said. Petra added that the Harambee Starlets will soon go to camp in readiness for the Afcon qualifiers. “The girls will be heading to camp once all logistics are in place. We want them to have ample preparations so that we improve on our last outing. We are also talking to some firms to come on board and help support the team.”