The Sh8 billion expansion of Outer Ring Road has fallen below residents' expectations. Lack of bus stops and dust on the section near the NCPB depot are some of their concerns. Matatu drivers drop off passengers on the expressway from Taj Mall to Doonholm, causing massive traffic jams. Ordinarily, motorists are not allowed to obstruct others, especially on expressways. "We neither have passenger stages nor a service lane in Taj Mall, forcing us to pick passengers and drop them on express lanes," Embasava Sacco driver Mwangi Gitau told the Star. "When police arrest us, we either part with Sh3,000 or face the judge, who in most cases wants us to prove whether [the accusation] is true or false and not explanations." Gitau, who has been a driver for 35 years, had just been arrested near Taj Mall for picking passengers illegally. "We have endured this dust for sometimes now and we do not know if the authorities are aware," resident George Mwebi told the Star. Outer Ring Road serves the populous Eastlands, which has about 2.6 million residents (60 per cent of the city's dwellers) and Nairobi's most active workforce. Last July, the Kenya Urban Roads Authority announced that the expansion was on course and 83.1 per cent of the project was already done. Kura said the project would be completed by this coming April. Last month Kura said construction stood at 87 per cent done. The Star yesterday found no walkways and cycle tracks on some sections of the road, with traders scrambling for space with pedestrians. At Taj Mall, drivers use an underground tunnel to access the former Airport North road before getting on the express lane. Driver Mutaya Mwaura urged the contractor to build a service lane from Taj Mall to Doonholm. "Our passengers have been complaining because [there are no bus stops] or U-turn lanes, which forces motorists to drive long distances," he said. Mwaura has been a driver for 10 years. Residents want the Kenya Urban Roads Authority to build U-turn lanes and link roads, as it did on Ngong Road. "On our estates, we do not have amenities such as supermarkets and hospitals. It makes no sense to drive all the way to Doonholm and come back to buy things just across the road," one resident said. Meanwhile, matatu drivers continue to try to outdo each other in picking passengers, causing massive traffic jams. Kura chief communications officer John Cheboi urged residents to be patient as they address their concerns. "The service lanes are a work in progress set to be finished by July," he told the Star on phone. Motorists driving from the Eastern Bypass have to go all the way to Taj Mall Roundabout. During the project's initial stages, Taj Mall was among buildings that were to be demolished, having been put up on road reserve. Taj Mall is built on two amalgamated parcels of land (one is two acres and the other 1.7 acres), one of which the government said was illegally appropriated from a road reserve. The National Land Commission revoked the title deed, but the Lands ministry suspended the revocation. Whenever there is a heavy downpour, the underpass near the mall that motorists use to access Outer Ring Road gets flooded. Click here for the latest political news