Kiambu residents have lashed out at Woman Representative Gathoni wa Muchomba for suggesting an accused rapist should be released to care for the child he sired. Wa Machomba on her Facebook page called for release of a 43-year-old man accused of raping and making a 15-year-old girl pregnant nant. Wa Muchomba denied the post and denied posting a photo of the minor. She said heR enemies want to tarnish her name. Kiambu youth leader Peter Mwangi  said he will go to court to  petition wa Muchomba to be removed from office, adding she is “insane and not fit to lead”. Mwangi said this is not the first time wa Muchomba has failed the electorate because of her “incompetence”. ‘i should be paid well’ Before she had even been sworn-in, the first-time legislator opposed pay cuts for MPs as required by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. During a TV interview, she said, “Let us slash or raise salaries the right way. I want to be paid well. I want to be honoured for who I am.” Mwangi said, “Our Woman Representative is incompetent. Before she was sworn-in, she said she should be paid well just like the votes she garnered.” He also said she promised toenrol women for karate lessons so they can fight their violent husbands. She is also agitating for more funds to the Affirmative Action Fund, “yet we haven’t seen what she has done with the already awarded amount. social media On social media, wa Muchomba has not been spared. On the United States of Kiambu page, which has more than 200,000 followers, members lashed out at wa Muchomba. Anthony Muhia said,  “We voted in a controversial woman. How do you expect a teenager to marry her rapist? I think mheshimiwa’s dark past is truly haunting her.” Jayden Tiona said, “What kind of a leader is this? She only thinks about the addition of her salary. What do you expect?” Zipporah Wanjiru said, “The Woman Rep should protect the girl and baby. She should not throw her back to the hyena. We in the community will fight for that girl through many organisations.” Before joining politics, wa Muchomba was a media personality. The 42-year-old owned a digital vernacular television channel,  Utugi TV.          