Security agencies in Transmara subcounty in Narok have arrested a murder suspect. The suspect is said to have had a hand in the death of a man who worked in a ranch that belongs to former President Daniel Moi’s son Jonathan. There was no immediate response from the Moi family.  Kirindon deputy county commissioner Hesbon Kayesi said the worker was shot and killed by a gang that invaded the ranch on New Year’s Day. “Some unknown people broke into the ranch near the Masai Mara Game Reserve and killed the worker,” Kayesi said. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Kayesi said the police swiftly responded, but the worker had already bled to death. Police are investigating. The body was taken to Kilgoris Hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem. Kirindon assistant chief Nelson Sairowua said the worker was shot in the chest during the 3am incident. He said the gang also assaulted other workers and made away with chickens. “After the shooting, the assailants ransacked a few houses and beat up other workers,” Sairowua said. He added that a suspect arrested at Olgos Sopia at the Transmara West-Trans Mara East border is being questioned by officers from the Trans Mara criminal investigation office in Kilgoris. “His accomplices are on the run but we will arrest them,” the administrator said. Residents of Kirindon area have raised alarm over rising insecurity in the area. They urged the government to intervene. Resident Kilera Koyianto said they live in fear following a spate of robberies.  “Many shops have been broken into in the past month, making traders lose property worth thousands of shillings. We are pleading with the government to increase the number of security officers,” she said. In April 2016, Deputy county commissioners Mercho Maina and Wesley Koech urged elected leaders to support their peace efforts and stop incitement. The government will involve elders to end conflicts between communities in Trans Mara West and Kuria East subcounties, they said. Trans Mara West deputy county commissioner Mericho Maina and his Kuria East counterpart Wesley Koech urged all elected leaders in the two subcounties to support peace efforts in the volatile areas. Many people have been killed and property worth millions of shillings destroyed in clashes. Maina and Koech chaired a meeting in Kegonga town, Kuria East. “We would like to appeal to members of the Maasai, Kuria and Kipsigis communities who live on this border not to allow a few individuals in their midst to cause bloodshed for their own selfish interests,” Maina said.  The two administrators said they will work closely with all parties to ensure no violence occurs under their watch.