 A top Jubilee operative is concerned that the heaps of
rocks, stones and other building materials scattered in Nairobi will be a boon
to NASA supporters’ self-defence measures during the planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga on January 30. To make
matters worse for the police, who are expected to confront “one million” NASA
supporters expected to assemble at Uhuru Park, Nairobi, Governor Mike Sonko has added some concrete
building materials in the park, just in front of the dais.  Now, the
operative says he has seen an opportunity to earn some bucks from Jubilee
mandarins. “I will come up with a good plan to clear all the streets and ensure
that NASA supporters won’t find any stones to fight the cops back with.” ***** AFTER dropping local sports sponsorship like a hot potato,
our mole tells Corridors that one of the local betting companies is mulling
over sponsoring football’s most popular two — AFC and Gor Mahia. Sources say
that the top bosses were heard discussing that if they still sponsor two
leading clubs in a neighbouring country, it would still be vital to sponsor
Kenya’s top two community clubs, which they believe have a strong following
with the clients of the betting industry.  It is just a matter of time. ***** STILL on support for local sports, the Jubilee government
spinners were everywhere to defend the higher taxes on betting activities in
the country, arguing that even European countries tax the betting industry
highly. But a shareholder in a betting firm was heard dismissing the argument
at a restaurant during Happy Hour: “The countries tax the betting industry
to support the sector by building stadiums, marketing local leagues abroad and
bringing into their countries foreign expertise to develop the sport. They
actually support sport, unlike here where most public funds end up in
individual pockets.” ***** THE policy by the National Police Service of transferring
police officers after six months is not solving rampant corruption in the
force. In the small village of Ebuyangu in Vihiga County, some officers were
allegedly heard “handing over” the criminal racket networks used to the new
ones. In Vihiga County — especially in Emuhaya and Luanda
constituency— shops have been closing due to criminal activities the
Police have failed to rein in. ***** A top officer at the OP was bragging that most
institutions of governance created by the Constitution of Kenya 2010 have been
cannibalized and crippled by the Jubilee administration. He said the Office of
the Director of Public Prosecutions was the one remaining, but Keriako Tobiko stepped down. He added:
“We are officially  in power now.” 