Radio Jambo presenter Annitah Raey survived a three-hour carjacking ordeal over the weekend. The midmorning show host told her fans on social media she and her brother were traumatised by the 1am incident. Speaking exclusively to Word Is, Annitah said she is grateful they made it out of the incident unhurt. "I had an incident on Friday when I was going back home late into the night, and as a result I won't be on air for a while, since I want to relax a bit and take some time off," she said. "My brother and I live in Kinoo and on our way home, we got followed at some point but we assumed it was just another taxi, so we stopped at around Kinoo bus terminus to grab some food and the same guys were still following us. "As I got off the car we saw a number of men get off their car and approach our car, with one of them brandishing a pistol. They asked our taxi driver to surrender the car but he refused and instead rolled up the car windows and sped off, only for him to reach a dead end, where they caught up with us. "They broke into the car and ordered us to sit at the back of the car, and at the back of my mind, I thought they would rob us and let us go. "But soon as the commotion attracted sirens from the neighbouring houses, they decided to take us with them all the way to Ruaka, where they robbed unsuspecting Kenyans as we watched." As lucky as the presenter, her brother and their taxi driver were to escape unhurt, the same can't be said for one unlucky guy. As fate would have it, the vehicle the carjackers had stolen was running low on fuel, and so they saw an opportunity to get another vehicle. Whose vehicle was this? The unlucky man who was opening his gate. So they saw an easy target and proceeded. "At around 4am, we were in Zambezi, where they decided to pounce on some guy who was driving into his compound. And weird enough, these guys ordered us out of the vehicle and made us watch the entire drama," Annita said. "When his wife opened the gate and saw the men, she locked the gate and raised an alarm to alert the neighbours. They asked the victim to hand over the car keys and when he declined, they got agitated and used a huge rock to hit him on the head. "So they panicked and got back into our vehicle and drove off with us and dumped us near Astrol petrol station at around 5.30am, after striping off our car for parts. Thank God they never harmed us," she said.