A case challenging Taita Taveta governor Granton Samboja's election has been dismissed over an investigation into his academic credentials. Voi High Court judge justice Eric Ogola said they had no powers to investigate and determine the authenticity of Samboja’s credentials in a timely fashion. County residents Armstrong Kiwoi and Thomas Jumwa challenged validity of Samboja’s Kenyatta University degree. The court ruled on two preliminary objections by Samboja and the IEBC, for the case to be dismissed on grounds that the election court could not undertake an inquiry as the petitioners prayed. They noted only the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission can probe integrity matters. Ogola said: “All election cases should be heard and determined by the end of February, and therefore this court hasn't enough time to determine the matter before then.” He directed the EACC, attorney general and director of public prosecutions to pursue the case against Samboja, at Milimani Law Court’s constitutional division. EACC filed the case on August 1, challenging Samboja's nomination to vie for county boss. The commission accused the electoral agency of clearing the politician despite the existence of questions about his degree. Ogola termed the case a waste of the court's time and a replica of the case before the Milimani court. “The only issue to be determined by both courts is whether Samboja holds a valid degree. The petitioner did not raise issues of election irregularities. The petitioner also filed this case being in full realisation that a similar case had been filled by the EACC at Milimani. I therefore dismiss this petition.” The judge also said the cased posed the risk of contradictory rulings. “Putting into consideration that the sole denominator in both cases was to determine the validity of a university degree, this court might give a decision that is central to that of Milimani.” The two petitioners will share the cost of Sh500,000. In his preliminary objection, Samboja’s lead counsel Odiek Ayuka had said that only the EACC had the power to investigate the case. The IEBC and Samboja's lawyer Edwin Ayirpo had applied for the case to be struck out on grounds that the court was only mandated to hear and determine election petitions. They said the case was on integrity but justice Ogolla said the High Court had the full mandate to investigate and rule on the matter. Lawyer Edwin Sifuna, for the petitioners, argued that the electoral agency had violated the Election Act by clearing an unfit candidate for the general election. “An election is a process that starts right from voter registration to declaration of a winner. The IEBC contravened the law by clearing Samboja to vie," he said. The governor’s documents indicate that he acquired certificate, diploma, and degree courses at Kenyatta University between 2002 and 2009. But through an affidavit, the university's legal officer Aaron Tanui denied reports that Samboja studied there. Click here for the latest political news 