The Energy ministry has denied reports that Kenya Power has been backdating customers’ bills, leading to inflated charges. Energy CS Charles Keter noted on Monday that this can only be sanctioned by the Energy Regulatory Commission through 45 days of public participation. Keter said the billing fluctuation most likely resulted from the transfer of 2.4 million customers from the analogue to the digital billing system over the past three months. “Beginning July, Kenya Power went into an upgrade of their billing system. The upgrade will have been finalised by the end of this month,” he told the press in his office at Nyayo House, Nairobi. The minister said the power supplier has a total of 6.4 million customers, about 6,000 being large scale industrial companies whose meters are read real-time online. Keter said the problem of inflated bills may also have been brought about by estimations of meter readings, which translate to high charges when actual readings are done. But he noted Kenya Power has introduced gadgets that meter readers must use to record accurate figures. “The gadgets work within a radius of 50 meters, so that person (meter reader) must be within the premises of the building when recording readings." Noting the gadgets were used in December, he assured bills will not be estimated in January. The CS further revealed that the supplier was working on a mobile application that will allow customers to upload pictures of their readings onto its system for accurate billing.  “Kenya Power will announce that within this month…I don't want to preempt... you just take a photo of your meter and transfer that data to their billing system," he said. “We have also given Kenya Power a directive; from today, as they work on that, there will be no estimation ... your actual bill or no bill." There had been uproar by customers who said their bills had been inflated. Some reported figures that were 100 per cent higher that their average costs. Click here for the latest political news      