New Tusker tactician Sam timbe will be seeking to start his tenure at Ruaraka when he faces Ugandan Premier League champions KCCA this afternoon. The Ugandan side went down 4-2 to Gor Mahia in their first friendly encounter over the weekend and will be hoping to redeem themselves. KCCA are camping in the country chasing high profile pre-season matches in preparation for their CAF Champions League preliminary match against Madagascar champions CNaPS next month. An injured KCCA will turn its wrath to the Breweries today before facing AFC Leopards on Wednesday. The match will see Timbe assume his duties officially, hour prior to his unveiling tomorrow. The experienced Ugandan head coach will face a side well known to him and would not wish to kick off his tenure with a loss. Tusker chief executive officer, Charles Obiny, has expressed his confidence with the playing unit as they seek to be in a position to wrestle for silverware in the forthcoming campaign. “It’s a match in which we expect Timbe to begin his duties officially although we will be unveiling him on Tuesday, where we will also reveal the goals we have set for him,” said Obiny. “I can confirm that our new signing,Lawrence Kasadha will not be facing his former side since he has a knock. We just want the boys to beat the competition and win a trophy come the new season. That’s the aim of playing football.” Assistant head coach, Francis Baraza, who had been at the helm since the suspension of the then head coach George Nsiimbe, said the friendly match provides the best yardstick to test their readiness for the new season “We are ready for the match. The boys are in good form for the match and the new season. It’s a good friendly. KCCA is a great team with great players and it’s a good test for us,” said Baraza. Tusker have beefed their squad for the new season with new signings expected to make their debuts with the 11 time Kenyan Premier League champions. Tusker have acquired the services of Timothy Otieno from Gor Mahia, Erick Ambunya from Kakamega Homeboyz, Western Stima duo of Robert Achema and Robert Tayo, Apollo Otieno from Chemelil Sugar, Paul Muchika from Muhoroni Youth and Kasadha.