President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday unveiled the first members of his next Cabinet, retaining six and nominating three new Secretaries. Uhuru retained Henry Rotich (National Treasury), Najib Balala (Tourism), James Macharia (Transport), Charles Keter (Energy) and Fred Matiang’i (Interior) and Joe Mucheru (Information) and re-assigned them accordingly. Thirteen Cabinet Secretaries from the last term were not mentioned. Read : Uhuru directs Cabinet Secretaries to prepare handover reports The most conspicuous was Dr Fred Matiang’i, who now becomes the substantive Interior CS and acting CS for Education. The President also nominated former Marsabit Governor Ukur Yattani, former Turkana Senator John Munyes and DPP Keriako Tobiko to the Cabinet. Uhuru said he had submitted the names of the nominees to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for vetting. There was no woman named in the whole list of appointments, prompting the National Gender and Equality Commission to warn it would take action to ensure that women, people with disabilities, the youth and those from marginalised communities are appointed. (see separate story) “There is a precautionary notice issued by the Commission in good time to guide the appointments in both the counties and the national government. We expect nothing less than what the Constitution states,” Wachira said.  According to Article 152 (2) of the Constitution, the President nominates and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appoints Cabinet Secretaries. Among the few who got the President's nod to continue was Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua who had been expected to retire as he has reached 60 years. He will deputised by immediate former Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Wanyama Musiambu. Nzioka Waita was promoted from deputy to become the new Chief of Staff and Head of Presidential Delivery Unit. As predicted, the President rewarded former Nakuru Governor Kinuthia Mbugua to Controller of State House, replacing Lawrence Lenaiyapa, nominated as ambassador to the Netherlands. Uhuru also replaced the heads of the country's police arms in what he said was aimed at improving service delivery. The three deputy Inspectors-General will be redeployed to other duties by the Public Service Commission. Kenya Police Service's Joel Kitili was replaced by Edward Njoroge, while Noor Gabau took over from Samuel Arachi as the Commandant of the Administration Police. Also read : Uhuru to sack ministers in big clear-out Former National Police Service spokesman George Kinoti replaces Ndegwa Muhoro as Director of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. The three will serve in acting capacity, pending vetting. Uhuru said he nominated the security bosses after consulting Police IG Joseph Boinnet and the National Police Service Commission. Unlike the first Cabinet, Uhuru has resorted to piecemeal appointments to constitute his long awaited second administration. “Over the next few weeks, I will be making further announcements to fill CS and PS positions as we continue to populate the government with those charged with the responsibilities of executing our agenda for the next five years,” he said. The appointments drew immediate criticism. ODM chairman and National Assembly minority leader John Mbadi told the Star the nominations were laughable, saying NASA is demanding serious discussions on how Kenya should be governed.  “As far as we are concerned there is no President Uhuru,” Mbadi said.  “We are waiting for Raila Odinga to be sworn-in as President and make appointments. It may seem far-fetched but that is what we know.” Last year, Mbadi had stated NASA would not participate in vetting a Cabinet constituted by an "illegal administration". The parties' MPs had boycotted taking up committee and leadership positions in Parliament. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony hailed the President for retaining Keter, saying he had delivered as Energy CS.  "More Kenyans have been connected to the national power grid and many towns lit up through streets lights," he said.  But Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo said the President exhibited impunity. “The President has unconstitutionally essentially sacked the DPP; hired Deputy IGs in usurpation of NPSC powers and appointed persons in acting capacity, contrary to the Constitution. More interesting, take a look at the imbalance in ethnic distribution.”  New Comptroller Mbugua's appointment had long been expected. He dropped out of defending his seat as Nakuru Governor to support Jubilee’s Lee Kinyanjui in a deal brokered by the President and DP William Ruto. Mbugua, former AP Commandant, had lost to Kinyanjui in the Jubilee primaries and opted to run as an independent. It was a rewarding comeback for John Munyes, the Ford Kenya chairman who ditched the party for Jubilee months before election. He effectively replaces former Senate Speaker Ekwe Ethuro at the high table. Munyes said: "This is an honour to the people of Turkana and at the same time confirmation of the trust and confidence the President has in the Jubilee team in Turkana.  Munyes had filed a petition at the Lodwar High Court, seeking nullification of the re-election of ODM governor Josephat Nanok. Former governor Yattani said his nomination was an honour to the people of northern Kenya. "I pledge, when appointed, to work hard to advance the Jubilee administration’s agenda,” he said. Yattani decamped from the Raila Odinga-led party in March last year, together with four MPs, 25 MCAs and more than 300 elders representing the county's 15 communities. It was confirmation for Rotich, Balala, Macharia, Keter, Matiang’i and Mucheru who will continue in their ministries. Hand-over? It was not clear what will follow next for those who were not tapped to continue. In December last year, Uhuru directed all CSs to prepare handover reports, to facilitate smooth transition in dockets with new CSs. Yesterday's announcement did not make reference to those who were not picked, though the President said he will continue to fill the positions. Analysts opined that the unusual absence of Ruto at his side was a sign that negotiations were still ongoing on the full list of the nominees and appointees. Uhuru announced on New Year's Eve he will appoint "men and women to serve Kenyans without partiality and with the very highest standard of integrity and efficiency." No women were mentioned. Click here for the latest political news 