The door of President Uhuru Kenyatta's car hit him after he stepped out to meet his South African counterpart Jacob Zuma on Wednesday. For some this was normal but for others it was a security breach. A South African agent opened the back left door for Uhuru and then released it to let him pass through. After the 'breach', another agent pulled the door from the opposite side. Some Kenyans were agitated by this turn of events and said the agents should be fired immediately for being unprofessional. Oliver Twist tweeted:  "The guy who opened the door is unprofessional. He was supposed to open it from the side." His sentiments were echoed by Samuel Nguyo who said the aide was unprofessional. "That bodyguard needs to be fired.That's not how to open a car door for a VIP." Lameck the Patriot noted the process should have been flawless. "Nonsense. The president is okay but in no world should such a mistake happen again in this century. The president is not any other person who can be hit by a car door. An armored car has heavy doors." Uhuru didn't seem to mind and walked off to his meeting without stopping. The president travelled to South Africa on Thursday morning for talks on trade, security and infrastructure development with Zuma. Deputy President William Ruto and other government officials saw the president off at the JKIA in Nairobi. So far, the president has met officials of the African National Congress. His Jubilee Party was represented by vice chairman David Murathe and secretary general Raphael Tuju while ANC deputy president David Mabuza led his party's team. The president later attended a dinner to mark ANC's 106th anniversary. Uhuru will also meet the Johannesburg business community and Thomas Schaefer, the Chief Executive Officer of Volkswagen South Africa which set up an assembly plant in Kenya in December 2016. More on this: Uhuru in SA for trade, security talks with Zuma Also read: Uhuru, SA deputy president Ramaphosa discuss open borders, stronger ties Click here for the latest political news