Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria wants the county assembly not to resume until the MCAs iron out their differences. Two MCAs and one Jubilee official sustained injuries after fights erupted during a meeting convened by party chairman Simon Gikuru to change the assembly leadership. Wa Iria said some of the MCAs seemed to have had plans to kill their counterparts. The governor said they should not be allowed to reconvene back in the assembly until the matter is fully investigated. Three people were assaulted at a hotel in Kiambu after they opposed the changes to the assembly leadership. They were first locked out of the venue for two hours. They were only allowed in when the meeting was concluded, with disagreements ensuing when they demanded to know why they were locked out. The three were attacked by scores of youth said to have been hired by the MCAs. Gatanga MCA Nahashon Gichuhi sustained head injuries after being hit by a stone. “MCAs resort to physical fights and may end up killing each other in the assembly over differences,” Wa Iria said. He asked the DPP to prosecute the MCAs who planned to have their colleagues attacked. The governor said the faces of those involved in the incident can be clearly identified in videos making rounds in social media. “I have talked to the party headquarters in Nairobi and they did not know about the purported meeting called by the county chairman,” Wa Iria said. His sentiments were echoed by Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau who said it is unfortunate that the MCAs are consistently in the headlines for the wrong reasons. He also condemned local politicians who fuel fights among MCAs. “There seems to be people who are happy when the MCAs are fighting and are giving money to sustain the conflicts,” Kamau said. The county party officials have, however, suspended their chairman for overseeing the chaotic meeting. He was replaced with Francis Muheria, the deputy treasurer. They accused Gikuru of conferring upon himself powers to call the meeting that should have been organised by the party’s assembly caucus chairman Charles Mwangi, who was also suspended for failing to give proper guidance to the MCAs. Gikuru said the party officials exercised powers they do not have and that they are under investigation. He said the officials who suspended him violated the party’s constitution.      