Writing
about the US in 2015, BBC’s New York correspondent Nick Bryant said, “Standing on
the Washington Mall at the turn of the new millennium, it was impossible not to
be struck by America's power and global pre-eminence”. Victory in the Cold War made it the hegemon
in a unipolar world. Bryant notes that few argued when the 20th
Century was dubbed the "American Century", a term first coined in the
early 1940s, when the country was still overcoming its isolationist instincts. Even the New Year's fireworks, which
illuminated the obelisk of the Washington Monument in a way that made it
resemble a giant number one, projected the country's supremacy as the world's
sole superpower, Bryant observed. Over the past 15 years to the point Bryant
was making this observation in 2015, Bryant noted America's fortunes changed
with dizzying speed. First came the dot-com bust and a disputed
presidential election in 2000. Then came the destruction of the Twin Towers in
2001 and the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, leading to a near total
collapse of the American economy. With that decline in US might, world
leaders started to feel confident they can provoke the wrath of the White
House, confident that it will never rain down on them. This, according to Bryant, explains why the
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, after unleashing chemical weapons against his
people, continues to bombard them with barrel bombs. It also explains, says
Bryant, why Vladimir Putin annexed Crimea, and also offered a safe haven for
the National Security Agency whistleblower Edward Snowden. And also why Benjamin Netanyahu thumbed his
nose at the Obama administration, by accepting an invitation from the
Republican congressional leadership to address a joint session of the Congress,
a platform he used to lambast the Iran nuclear deal. All these observations by Bryant back in
2015 were right on, and nobody serious could dispute any of it then or now;
however, little did Bryant or anyone making these observations at the time know
what would follow a year later with the election of Donald J Trump. According to a Quinnipiac
University survey of 1,078 voters across the nation last April, words such
as incompetent; liar; leader; unqualified; president; strong;
businessman; ignorant; egotistical; and asshole are
some of those most commonly associated with the President. The top three words (idiot, incompetent,
and liar) were given as response 39, 31, and 30 times,
respectively. Were that survey to be done now, the numbers would be worse, as
Trump has gotten worse, not better, and seems determined to get worse each day
to the day he’s booted out of office or resigns in the face of impeachment,
which is likely. The now outright despising and ridiculing
of Trump as an embarrassment of a President by a growing number of people in
both the US and across the world, especially among world leaders, comes with it
further declining of respect for the United States and, therefore, her further
decline as a power to reckon. This is good news for despots and incompetent
leaders across the globe as they laugh saying, “See, we are not that bad: Look
at Trump!” But it’s not an excuse for serious leaders
or those who want to be taken seriously not to rise above this mediocrity, and
do good for their citizenry. That’s the call beckoning Uhuru Kenyatta,
notwithstanding the fact his legitimacy as President is rejected by a large segment
of the Kenyan population: For Uhuru to recognize this fact and say to himself, “Rather
than serving another term with little of nothing to show for his
accomplishment, I can put together a government of national unity with diverse,
knowledgeable and experienced individuals to include those from the opposition
to deliver an agenda that can not only unite the country, but ensure all Kenyans
finally enjoy the fruits of Independence that has alluded them all these years”. Key among those fruits of Independence is
the right to have their voices heard in who serves them in government through
credible elections, which we’ve not had since 2002. If Uhuru does that, Kenya will once again
shine in Africa and become a darling of world admirers, who would want to come
visit bringing with them much needed dollars. If he doesn’t, Kenya will no doubt continue
the path akin what the US is.   Samuel Omwenga
is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States      