Gambling machines have turned Malindi school-going children into slaves, the Kenya Film Classification Board has said. KFCB regional manager for Coast Bonventure Kioko on Tuesday said gambling had put the children’s education under threat. Kioko said children as young as 13 were being forced into immoral activities to raise money for gambling. He said young girls were offering their bodies in exchange for money for gambling. “Children are spending more time in gambling dens than in classrooms. The evidence is in the results they posted in the KCPE and KCSE exams,” Kioko said. He was speaking in Mombasa after touring schools in Malindi and Kilifi over the weekend.  CRACKDOWN Last week, acting Education CS Fred Matiang’i ordered a crackdown on illegal gambling machines. Most of the machines are owned by foreigners, Matiang’i said. Kioko confirmed that the foreigners own the machines and usually collect their dues during the weekends. He said they will crackdown on gaming dens, whether they were operating legally or illegally. “The interest to protect underage children supersedes any regulation,” Kioko said. The Institute for Human Rights executive director Eric Mngoja said gambling has had a negative effect on education. He said they conducted a study in Kilifi, where they established that most pupils were addicted to gambling. “Children concentrate more on gambling than on their studies. On average, we got that they spend about four hours a day in the dens. Truancy is rampant,” Mngoja said.  MEETING Kioko said Maweni, Kisumu Ndogo and Mayeye were the most affected areas. “The children are totally distracted. Their mind is always on how to get the next coin for gambling,” Mngoja said. Kilifi county director of education Moses Karati and Coast regional education coordinator Abdikadir Kike were not immediately available to comment on the matter because they were engaged in a meeting with Matiang’i. Governor Amason Kingi had requested a meeting of education stakeholders and the CS to find ways of improving learning standards in the county. Kingi said education had deteriarated, with just a handful of KCPE candidates enrolling in secondary schools to continue with their studies.