Questions have arisen about the whereabouts of IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. This is after IEBC acting chairperson Connie Maina signed a rebuttal statement to NASA claims that Raila Odinga won the August 8 presidential election. The Star has however established that Chebukati is in Israel for two weeks on an official mission, according to a source at the electoral body. "The vice-chair is acting," the source said. On Friday, the coalition released what it termed as the true figures of the polls indicating that Raila Odinga won with 8.1 million votes against President Uhuru Kenyatta’s 7.9 million votes. They said an analysis of data in IEBC servers by their IT experts revealed that Raila won in 26 counties while Uhuru won in only 21. Maina disputed the results as misleading. Read: NASA poll results misleading, a non-existent reality, says IEBC “We note that this is not the first time such claims have been made. Indeed, on August 10, 2017, NASA presented to the commission figures allegedly obtained from the IEBC servers showing that Raila Odinga had won the election,” read part of the statement. Naturally, any official communication from the Electoral body is supposed to be signed by IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati. Chebukati has been missing in the public limelight since the October 30, 2017 after declaring President Uhuru Kenyatta winner of the October 26 repeat presidential election. Read: NASA claims Raila got 8.1 million votes, met 50% plus one condition Privy to this information, a section of Kenyans on social media started raising questions about the whereabouts of the soft spoken chairman. Using the hashtag #WhereIsChecbukati, they sought answers from the IEBC. @GeorgeObera twitted, “Connie Maina Acting Chair Person, IEBC #WhereIsChebukati.” Another user @Khalif_A_Abdul followed it up with, “Anxiety mounting as Kenyans ask #whereischebukati” @BeenieAlpha, @Medrynekwendo and @ArokoKevin also posed the same question. Read also: August election results irrelevant, Uhuru tells Raila on oath plan Click here for the latest political news  