Kitui West voters today will pick the candidate to run on the wiper ticket in the March 26 MP by-election. The seat fell vacant on December 6 after MP Francis Nyenze died. Seeking the ticket are his widow Edith Vethi and Maluki Kitili, the son of former Cabinet minister Nyiva Mwendwa. The Wiper nominations are crucial in the picking a suitable successor, because it is the dominant party in Kitui and Ukambani at large.  DIVIDE KITUI WEST Whoever — Vethi or Kitili — clinches the Wiper ticket will be a frontrunner during the by-election. Last week, the two declared they were running. But the Wiper nominations are likely to divide the Kitui West voters into two groups — Mutonguni and Matinyani. Vethi comes from Mutonguni, while Kitili is from Matinyani. Vethi, whose campaign name is Mama Shabik, launched her bid at Kauwi Primary School grounds on Sunday. On Saturday Kitili declared his candidacy in Kwa Mukoma, Matinyani, next to his rural home. Both candidates sought “divine intervention” to emerge victorious.Clergymen prayed for the two. Vethi is supported by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua. Senator Wambua is Vethi’s brother. She is expected to ride on the popularity of her departed husband, who was known as Shabik among the voters. This is believed to be the reason Vethi has adopted the name ‘Mama Shabik’. Besides, she has been urged to seek to inherit her husband’s seat, not only by notable leaders but the majority of Kitui West voters.  RAN SHOW IN BACKGROUND MCA Jane Mutua has said Vethi fits the bill to inherit her husband’s seat. “You people know she has what it takes to win the seat and deliver to the people of Kitui. Ahead of the August 8 General Election when her husband was ailing, she mounted a vigorous campaign and he was reelected,” Mutua said. Vethi added, “I’m the person who ran the show from the background. I interacted with people and even gave financial support to the needy on behalf of my husband. I need no introduction.” She said she is running at the request of residents. “God and my late husband want me to be MP,” she says.  I’m a son of the soil On the other hand, Kitili comes from an influential political family. His mother Nyiva and father Kitili Mwendwa had in the past been MPs of Kitui West constituency. On Friday he said he is not riding on his family’s name and fame. He said he has what it takes to stand on his own and win the seat. “Let people detach me politically from my mother or other family members. I’m Maluki Kitili and people should see me from that perspective. I will serve the Kitui West people as Maluki Kitili and as a son of the soil,” Kitili said. He enjoys the support of three elected MCAs — Sylvester Munyalo of Matinyani, Felix Baridi of Mutonguni and David Thuvi of Kwa Mutonga. The three have been campaigning for him.  spend MP salary on bursaries “As a newcomer in politics, I represent a renewed hope for the future. I’m confident I will win the Wiper ticket. I urge the voters to pick the candidate who can deliver the seat to NASA,” Kitili said. He said although he is a newcomer in elective politics, he is keen to introduce a new “servant leadership” concept in Kitui West. Kitili also promised to offer his MP’s salary for bursaries for the poor and to fund other development projects. Kitili said his candidature represents a new dawn in the management of the constituency. 