 Commentaries about Kenya’s current crisis invariably compare it to the one that followed the deeply flawed 2007 presidential election, but none of the comparisons have looked at the role the two declared presidents played in resolving, or perpetuating, the calamites that rigging produced in each case.   The shattering 2007 crisis saw a resolution begin to emerge within a month. President Mwai Kibaki, while determinedly denying that rigging made him the winner took steps that indicated he recognised the obvious — a genuine contention about the election’s outcome that needed to be dealt with politically.  The result was a Kofi Annan-mediated dialogue between ODM and PNU led to a political accord, which saw extraordinary accomplishments in the next five years, including the new Constitution, and Kenya emerged much stronger than it had ever been as an inclusive nation. Thanks of course to Raila Odinga’s agreeing to sacrifice his own ambition and withdrawing his demand for the presidency he had won. President Uhuru Kenyatta must act as President Kibaki did, by taking political steps that will give hope for a resolution to the alarming situation that prevails. Its seriousness can be gauged by his Attorney General, Githu Muigai, regularly threatening death by hanging of the immensely popular NASA leader if he is sworn in. Uhuru a is imperilling Kenya by trivialising this crisis, and pretending that whatever is wrong can be fixed by unleashing threats against leaders, as he himself did again at the Council of Governors late last year at the Coast. He also keeps emphasising his commitment to preserving the integrity of our institutions, when in fact he led the charge against two fundamental ones, compromising the IEBC comprehensively, and undermining the Supreme Court by abusing and threatening the Justices for having nullified his election. Uhuru lives in a world of his own. It is important to repeat what Raila and the other NASA leaders have highligted as the only way out of this confrontational environment — a serious dialogue to be initiated between President Uhuru and NASA leaders on the basis of equality. The dialogue should include all key issues that each side wants, which means electoral justice must be on the agenda. Without that dialogue, Kenya’s politics will remain volatile and explosive, disrupting economic activity and governance for months to come.  Nearly two thirds of Kenyans do not recognise Uhuru as President, and are determined to not let this stand. They are passionately demanding that Raila be sworn in as President or secession be pursued for our aggrieved populations. Self-determination, including secession, is a cardinal principle of international law enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The UN, the US and the world helped our neighbours Ethiopia and Sudan successfully achieve self-determination for aggrieved populations that wanted to secede. No serious person advocates secession blithely. Raila has repeatedly said this, advocating that the woes of aggrieved populations be heard seriously if that demand is to be averted.  The issue of swearing in is also not about to disappear any time soon. We saw how NASA supporters erupted in anger against a leader they passionately love, when Raila’s swearing-in on December 12 was postponed. In his long political career, Raila has never been confronted with such opposition from his supporters. Kenyans are convinced that if they allow the third straight election theft to stand, there will never be another honest election in Kenya again.  President Uhuru’s refusal to initiate a serious dialogue is of course abetted by America’s support, which was evident again at US Acting Assistant Secretary of State Donald Yamamoto’s teleconferenced press encounter. He praised Raila’s long history for democratic inclusion and progressive political reforms, and urged a dialogue as well — but one without electoral justice in its agenda! As Raila said on December 19, we are not beggars seeking crumbs that might fall from the table.  Most Kenyans are convinced Raila won the August 8 presidential election, not merely because the Supreme Court nullified it but because the evidence of wrongdoing was overwhelming. The IEBC also refused to provide access to its servers that the Supreme Court had ordered, making it clear the servers showed that it was Raila who won the election. As the opposition leader pointed out sometimes back, the Supreme Court annulled Raila’s victory but not the election result. The server logs now in NASA’s possession clearly reveal he won by over a million votes.  Uhuru is imperilling Kenya by trivialising this crisis and pretending whatever is wrong can be fixed by unleashing threats against opposition leaders. Salim Lone, Adviser to NASA leader Raila Odinga