Five suspected bandits were shot dead during a fierce gun battle following an attack on a village in Marakwet East on Friday. The armed cattle rustlers
were shot dead in two separate incidents at Chesegon on the border of Elgeyo
Marakwet and West Pokot counties.
 Authorities said
on Saturday that six people were injured during the renewed clashes in Kerio Valley.  Wilson Tangus, Marakwet
East assistant deputy county commissioner, said the suspect Marakwet bandits crossed the border and stole an unknown number of cattle. He said
three West Pokot herders were killed during the shootout which followed after the herders sought to recover their stolen cows. "Pokot herders launched a hot pursuit killing one Marakwet bandit and injuring three others during
the gun fight at 12.30pm." He said the
Marakwet bandits managed to escape with the cows but were later ambushed by another group in Kapkobil village near Tot trading centre. "At about
6pm, the Marakwet youth drove the cows away towards Marakwet but were accosted
by a group of attackers from Baringo."  "We suspect that the West Pokot
herders sought for reinforcement from their Baringo counterparts," Tangus said. Read: No Christmas until all stolen cattle are recovered, DP Ruto tells Baringo security chiefs "Police
officers have been deployed on the ground to prevent further retaliatory
attacks and to arrest those involved the fighting," he added.
 Those
injured in the fight were rushed to Iten county referral Hospital for treatment. Locals said the area is still tense following the incident that happened months after calm returned in the
troubled valley. Wilson Kiptoo said the bandits, drawn from different villages in Marakwet East,
stole at least 40 cows from a village in West Pokot. The fresh
attacks happened in the wake of peace meetings spearheaded by West Pokot Governor
John Lonyangapuo and his Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos. No banditry
attack has been recorded in Kerio Valley since August 2017. Click
here for the latest political news     