The ramifications  of the  recent decision by the high court to uphold the government’s intended 35 percent tax on betting revenues are starting to be felt with Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Eachier the first to voice his fears over their sponsorship deal with leading gaming firm Sportpesa.  “It is with utmost regret that the sports fraternity has been plunged into chaos as key investors - gaming companies - face a bleak future in a new era of excessively high tax. While we are appreciative of the fact that the government wants to set up a sports fund with the increased revenue from these companies, we are wary of implementation and modalities of this fund,” Rachier regretted.  “Gor Mahia has been through thick and thin over the years. Before SportPesa came into the picture, we struggled. This is an open secret. We went from selling bread to raise funds for the club to remain operational and pay players’ salaries, to setting up an M-Pesa paybill number.” He revealed that these methods, as evidenced by the state of the club then, were and are not sustainable.  “As champions of the 2017 SportPesa Premier League we know how close to the bottom we came and what it takes to remain on top; sacrifice and massive support,” said Rachier. He added that to have sponsors like of SportPesa, who not only offers financial support but also capacity building, is a big plus for any club not just Gor Mahia. “SportPesa has gone the extra mile to ensure the club and the players as well as other Kenyan football players get several opportunities to showcase their skills to the world and train and play with the best. Kenyans were full of pride when Gor Mahia took on Everton in the friendly match played in July in Dar es Salaam. These are the kinds of initiatives that bring pride to the nation and build sports careers of our young men and women,” he added.  He further disclosed that with Gor set to go into  the preliminary round of the CAF Champions League next month, the club cannot afford on their own even though the matches are a source of pride for the nation since participation in the tournament raises Kenya’s profile.