With his new side Mathare United having struggled for goals and barely escaped relegation last season, new signing Clifford Alwanga is hoping to rediscover his form after re-uniting with his former coach at Tusker Francis Kimanzi. The experienced goal poacher, who joined the slum boys on a two-year contract after parting ways with the brewers, said on the KPL official portal that he’s already settled in the team and looking forward to an exciting season. “I had several offers on the table but I chose to join Mathare United since I have previously worked with the coach and I understand his philosophy. He also understands me as a player and that makes it easier for me to work on the pitch,” Alwanga said . “My objective at the moment is to rediscover my form, get more playing time and bang in the goals to help the team finish in a respectable position. My target is to score at least 15 goals this season,” he concluded. Apart from Alwanga, the club has also signed left-back Mike Simiyu from Gor Mahia on an 18-months deal, midfielder Francis Omondi from second-tier side Modern Coast, on a three-year contract, Gilbert Osonga from Posta Rangers on a four-year contract, defensive midfielder Johnstone Omurwa also joins the slum boys on a three year-deal while Samuel Ndungu comes in from AFC Leopards on a two-year deal. The team has also promoted young custodian Job Ochieng from their U-20 squad and handed him a four-year deal. Cliff Nyakeya, Daniel Mwaura and Derrick Onyango have renewed their contracts as well. The team has parted ways with goalkeepers Mark Kioko and Levis Opiyo; Erick Nzosi, Musa Oundo, Harrison Mwendwa, Brian Nyakan and Victor Ashinga. Elsewhere, Top flight debutantes Wazito FC have turned on the experience of Abdul Iddi Salim to sharpen their goalkeepers ahead of the grueling 2018 season. Iddi revealed that he is equally determined to help Wazito custodians achieve their potential. “I have a gentleman’s agreement with the club to work with the goalkeepers and so far, I have really enjoyed my time. The team might be young but it is run very professionally and the atmosphere is ripe for success,” Iddi said on the league’s official portal. “The coaches welcomed me very warmly and I am looking forward to enjoying my time at the club. I have four custodians at my disposal this —Eugene Mukolwe, Steve Njuge, Philip Odhiambo and Eric Ogwade—and I must admit they are all good. Goalkeeping is a very important department in modern football and my target is to ensure all of them are at the best level possible before the season kicks off,” he said. The former Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards and Harambee Stars goalkeeper trainer says he has gained valuable experience especially after venturing out of the country to work with MFK Topolcany in Slovakia and Simba SC in Tanzania. “Goalkeeping has really changed over years and the custodians now have to learn the latest trends and get involved heavily in build-up play. A good goalkeeper is very important to a team and I have learn't a lot recently. I want to use my experience to sharpen the custodians at Wazito to help the team finish in a respectable position,” he added. “I am still weighing a few options out of the country and working on paperwork but even as I do that my focus at the moment is fully at Wazito and I am very eager to see the team do well in their debut season in the Kenyan Premier League,” he concluded. Wazito earned promotion to the KPL after finishing second in the National Super League (NSL) with 80 points from 36 matches.