Former Irish rugby star Alan Quinlan called on Kenya to put emphasis on youth development if they are to make strides in the longer version of the game. Quinlan, who was in the country courtesy of invitation by the Rugby Patrons Society, said players need to be introduced to the game at a tender age hence get the right coaching. “If Kenya is to succeed, they have to work with kids and the young coaches. This will enable kids to have a better understanding of the game and learn new skills. Kenya needs to have programmes and train young coaches, even though they will need a lot of finance. However, the long term results will be there for all to see,” he added. Quinlan hopes Kenya will qualify for the Rugby World Cup next year in Japan after coming close in the last round of qualifiers in Madagascar in 2014, where they fell to Zimbabwe 27-10 while needing to lose by a bonus point to qualify for their debut in England. “It will be fantastic if Kenya qualify for the World Cup. World rugby needs to see small nations compete in bigger competitions. It will be a dream come true for Kenya though they have tricky qualifiers. I would love to see Kenya play in the World Cup,” he said. Kenya’s preparations for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers received a major blow last month after parting ways with South Africa’s Jerome Paarwater, who had served the national team for five and half years. The Simbas face promoted Morocco, Zimbabwe ,Uganda, Tunisia and champions Namibia. Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) suspended their hunt for new coach following the termination of the SportPesa sponsorship last month. Elsewhere, Homeboyz will start their Enterprise Cup campaign from the pre-quarters stage. The move come after they were deemed to have fielded ineligible player in their semi-final loss to KCB last season. The draw will take place on Friday. Champions KCB, Kabras and Impala Saracens have received a byes to the quarters. Mwamba, Kenya Harlequins, Nondies, Blak Blad, Nakuru RFC, Kisii and Mombasa will be drawn for pre-quarters. KCB are the defending champions after beating Kabras 27-23 last season.