Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe has resigned. On Twitter, Igathe said on Friday that he had failed to earn Governor Mike Sonko's trust.  Sonko and Igathe were supposed to be the dynamic duo — one the brash politician beloved by the people, the other the experienced manager who would run the city day-to-day. Sonko would do politics, Igathe would manage. The diminished role for Sonko didn't work out. On December 14 the Star exclusively reported that Sonko and Igathe had fallen out, claims Sonko denied. "Dear Nairobians, it is with a heavy heart that I resign my seat as elected Deputy Governor of Nairobi City County effective 1pm on 31st Jan 2018. I regret I have failed to earn the trust of the Governor to enable me to drive Administration & Management of the county. Thank you for the encouraging support given to me so far," he wrote on Twitter. "Without fear, favour or ill will I step down to avoid abusing or betraying my oath of office to Kenyans, Nairobians & my family. Thank you for the encouraging support given to me so far."  He becomes the first deputy governor to resign. Sonko and Igathe were elected on August 8. Before his resignation, Igathe had denied claims of a falling with Sonko. Read:Sonko and Igathe fall out as State House takes charge of City Hall Also Read:Sonko dispels reports of a rift with Igathe There were leaked screen shots of conversations with the governor that were based on the county's affairs.  Both leaders however denied reports of discord. A meeting called by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year saw Igathe and Tourism CS Najib Balala appointed to co-chair a technical committee of a special task force on programmes to improve Nairobi's social and economic sector. The task force was focussed on land, information and communications technology, housing and settlement, infrastructure and transport and energy. Also water resources, environment and solid waste management and services to youth, women and people with disability. However critics argued that it was wrong for State House to interfere with the affairs of the county.  Igathe's resignation also comes after massive complaints from Nairobians that the two have not been able to do a better job in the city.  According to Article 182 of the Constitution, Igathe must now submit his resignation letter to the speaker of the county assembly.  The law is silent is silent on how a deputy governor is supposed to be appointed if resigns.   Click here for latest political news          