Kenya may not meet budget targets for the current financial year 2017/2018, exerting pressure on the country’s fiscal policy. According to the draft 2018 budget policy statement released last week, total cumulative revenues including appropriations in aid collected in the first five months of the financial year up to November, were Sh558.4 billion against a target of Sh611.0 billion, an aspect that has been attributed to under performance of the main revenue tax heads. Kenya Revenue Authority is lagging behind in collection by Sh27.9 billion while ministerial A-i-A has a shortfall of Sh22.9 billion. ‘’The shortfall in ordinary revenue was on account of under performance in all the broad categories of ordinary revenues except import duty which remained constant at 1.2 per cent to Gross Domestic Product,’’ the statement read Excise taxes by November where at Sh183.6 billion against a target of 197.3 billion while income tax was behind by Sh56.4 billion against the budget target of 765.6 billion. In an effort to boost domestic revenue mobilization, the government is planning to undertake a combination of policy and administrative reforms to bolster ordinary revenue yields that have since declined about 1.6 per cent of GDP from 18.1 per cent in 2013/14 to 17 per cent in the last financial year. It rolled out the Integrated Customs Management System to seal loopholes at customs to prevent concealment, undervaluation, misdeclarations and falsifications of import documents. It is also planning to implement Regional Electronic Cargo Tracking to tackle transit diversion. Other measures include expansion of tax base by targeting the informal sector, betting lotteries and gaming, pursue nonfilers and increase focus on taxation of international firms and enhance investigations, intelligence capacity and KRA capacity to support revenue collection. Budget policy statement shows the national government overspent on recurrent budget but spent less on development projects. Statistics show that the state used Sh510.2 billion on allowances, salaries and administrative expenses against a target of Sh494.8 billion. The faster spending was in operations and maintenance which accounted for Sh35.6 billion and higher than programmed domestic interest payment of Sh12 billion. The total expenditure and net lending amounted to Sh720.2 billion against a target of Sh 824.2 billion falling below target by Sh104.0 billion at the end of November 2017. This shortfall in expenditure was attributed to lower than projected disbursements to county governments due to the delayed enactment of the County Revenue Allocation Act as as well as below target absorption of development expenditure. The country is however moving in the right direction is sealing fiscal deficit. The combined effect of the revenue and expenditure performance at end of November last year resulted to an overall fiscal deficit excluding A-i-A of Sh161.8 billion against a target of Sh213.3 billion. Including grants, the fiscal balance recorded a deficit of Sh164 billion below a target of Sh193.1 billion. 