NASA leaders will not allow anyone to derail their boss Raila Odinga's swearing-in, Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga has said. Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka are to be inaugurated as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya on January 30. More on this: Raila to be sworn-in on January 30 Rasanga said not even the few NASA individuals with dissenting opinions will thwart the plan. He said everyone knows there were no elections on October 26" for Jubilee to purport that they are in office legally". Rasanga's sentiments comes a few days after information emerged that some NASA leaders were divided when it came to the swearing-in. Those with different views argue that the coalition should champion for talks on election malpractices or push for a referendum to adopt the Bomas draft constitution. But Rasanga insisted that if Raila is not sworn-in, election malpractices are bound to escalate in future. He asked NASA leaders to remain united and not to listen to Jubilee's "voice of distraction but ensure they reach Canaan that is a stone's throw away". "This is the only opportunity to change the system of oppression that comes with every election year and allow voters, not computers, to have their way," he said in Siaya town on Saturday, during the burial of Dr Mary-Gorrety Ofafa. Related: NASA's radical plan for Raila's swearing-in Also read: We don't fear being sworn-in, Raila and Kalonzo say over January 30 oath Rasanga said the opposition is ready for the worst for the sake of free and fair polls. "Since independence, there has never been a free and fair election. Mzee Jomo Kenyatta never conducted an election and president Daniel Moi stole all elections for the more than 20 years he was in power." The governor emphasised that election malpractices will not be tolerated this time round even if it means paying the ultimate price. Rasanga asked his supporters in the county to prepare to accompany him to Nairobi for Raila's swearing-in. "My supporters have never disappointed me. When I asked them not to vote they didn't turn up. When I asked them not to go to work during the weekly demonstrations, no one reported to work. This time round I know they will accompany me in more than 10 buses." He added that if Jubilee leaders think they can always "threaten Nasa with death, anytime they hear about swearing- in Raila", they should fulfill the threats. Click here for the latest political news