Bosses of state corporations are on the spotlight for not remitting staff pension contributions amounting to millions of shillings. A National Treasury circular to CEOs of at least 102 corporations requesting them to submit their 2018-19 budget estimates to parent ministries by January 31, warns that government agencies withholding staff contributions are breaking the law. “These state corporations have accumulated huge arrears of staff pension contributions contrary to laws and government policies,” Treasury CS Henry Rotich says in a circular dated December 7. Read : Kenyans to pay retired MPs Sh3.1 billion as pension Rotich, who does not menetion the affected state corporations, wants them to honour their staff pension obligations including arrears after receiving funds for workers’ annuity.  Thirty two public universities are among state corporations on the spotlight.  Dons were recently indicted for “habitually” failing to remit statutory deductions such as income tax, pension contributions, NSSF and NHIF subscriptions, despite deducting cash from their salaries. The Senate is expected to grill university and Education ministry officials from February 14 when they return from recess.  Lecturers presented a petition to the House last November over the matter and controversy surrounding implementation of their 2013-17 and 2017-22 Collective Bargaining Agreements by the government.  The Universities Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga said failure to remit the workers’ statutory contributions is among factors that have led to low retention and massive brain drain of dons to foreign countries. Wasonga yesterday told the Star on the phone Senate Clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye wrote to the lecturers’ union informing it the petition was committed to House committees on Education and Labour. Also read : Pension reforms needed to allow wider savings ”There are many universities that have not remitted statutory contributions. We are waiting for the union to be invited to present its position when senators resume from vacation,” Wasonga said. He promised to give the figure of workers’ deductions universities have not remitted. Government agencies are required to submit the estimates to their parent ministries and Treasury for approval in line with the budget making calendar. The corporations are also on the spot for not disclosing all their internally generated revenues from public assets and services. Click here for latest political news