Wars between operatives allied to different Jubilee  factions are to blame for the fall-out at City Hall. The struggle for control of county affairs, pending payments and mega tenders forced Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe to resign, sources at City Hall have told the Star. Igathe, who was a direct nominee of State House, is said to have been at constant odds with proxies of Deputy President William Ruto.  face of state house Governor Mike Sonko is said to have stood his ground in exercising his authority to the dismay of Igathe, who was considered as an emissary of State House. It was not a secret when he was seconded to be Sonko’s running mate and given the impression he will be the de-facto administrator while Sonko politicked. Igathe quit on January 12 in what he called his failure to earn Sonko’s trust. The resignation is effective at the end of the month but it is emerging that he did not intend to resign, but to send a warning to Sonko and Ruto’s camp, that he would exit if his demands were not met.  SONKO RULES OUT TALKS It is said that soon after he sent the resignation, he began sending emissaries to Sonko and text messages, seeking a face-to-face meeting. Sonko has ruled out any talks, and seems to be enjoying the president’s support. Igathe’s allies said he complained of frustrations by acting county secretary Leboo ole Moritant,  a Sonko confidant,  and Finance executive Vesca Kengogo, allied to the Ruto-Sonko wing. “He complained that he had been reduced to nothing. He could not award tenders or sign for their payments,” one source said. Citing frustrations, Igathe reached out to county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi and county secretary nominee Peter Kariuki. “They advised him to give notice of resignation to presure Sonko to rein in his allies to allow him take charge of management. But Elachi denied advising Igathe to resign. “I went to Naivasha for a workshop on Wednesday, two days before Igathe resigned, so I did not talk to him,” she said.  county secretary ‘imposed’ Elachi won the seat after President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Jubilee MCAs, who are the majority in the house, to elect her. Kariuki was seconded by State House to be the new county secretary but is yet to assume office. The county chief even tried to create the position of deputy county secretary, which does not exist in law, to checkmate Kariuki if he gets the job. Kariuki was vetted by the appointments committee of the assembly in December but the MCAs went on recess before the panel chaired by Elachi could table its report.  DP WANTED KENNETH OUT Majority leader Abdi Guyo downplayed the matter, saying it was not urgent to approve Kariuki. Sources say Sonko is indebted to Ruto for his Jubilee primary and August 8 victories. The DP supported Sonko so he could edge out former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth, considered a  threat to the DP’s 2022 bid. Ruto is believed to have influenced Sonko’s victory in the primaries when he pitched camp at JP House in August and bankrolled his campaigns. Kenneth, who ran as an independent, blamed the DP for his loss. He said, “We did not lose the nominations. My opponent was assisted by somebody high up in the party hierarchy who wanted to down to size.”