Towards the end of last year, a young man was thrown out of a moving Karen-bound matatu at the Ngong Road-City Mortuary junction by the crew. The dispute arose from change of route as earlier announced by the touts as people boarded the matatu. As the touts wooed passengers, they said they would take the Southern Bypass route, which appeared more appealing to some if not most of the passengers. However, the crew chose to take Ngong Road instead, to the disappointment of the passengers, leading to a bitter argument and the unfortunate incident. The passenger was later rescuexd by a Good Samaritan who took him to hospital, where he is recuperating. Shortly after, and as if taking the cue from their Karen counterparts, Marimba Sacco touts descended on a motorist and beat him senseless. The driver, who later succumbed to injuries, had come out of his car to complain about being hit from behind by the matatu, whose crew were very rude and appeared intoxicated. These two events demonstrate how the matatu industry has become the law unto themselves.  EMERGENCE OF MATATU INDUSTRY The matatu industry has grown from humble but bold steps in the 1960s to be a dominant player in the transport sector with boundless influence on our culture and social affairs. When the founders of the industry sought and got protection from President Kenyatta against a petition by the owners of bus companies, it was hoped they would plug the gap in transport demands and provide employment. But the complaints from the owners of the buses should have provided a glimpse into the unruly character traits that were being nurtured then. It was a sector being championed by influential people interested in the emerging formal business club left by the departing settlers after Independence. The movers here were people who considered themselves freedom fighters but lacked the necessary sophistication to engage in white-collar business. They were political players in the nascent Kenyan state but were not well schooled in the dynamics of modern trade and commerce. So, once they received the presidential backing, the sector picked up and grew on parameters that borrowed heavily and more from the political norms of a guerrilla movement. As the economy was being Africanised and local Independence elites replaced the White settlers or formed joint ventures with those who stayed on, the matatu sector developed side by side. Its culture reinforced the political patronage from where it emerged in the first place. It is a culture that is characterized by lawlessness tethered to criminal gangsterism.  MATATU INDUSTRY POLITICIANS While the emerging political elites of independent Kenya appeared to imbibe the Western culture and mannerisms in politics, the matatu industry developed and equipped another class of political operators who admired the class status of their opposite numbers in the political chess game. While they envied their brothers, who had been better prepared by the departing colonial administration, they were aware they lacked the necessary networks to challenge them in a leadership contest. In any case, the successors of the colonial masters were now firmly in control of the reins of government. But they understood that what they lacked in Western education and sophistication could be mitigated by primitive accumulation of wealth. They, therefore, focused on building a strong financial war chest, while testing their entry into the political fold by seeking some posts that appeared less glamorous — to infiltrate the political leadership by controlling the substructure and appearing harmless and inconsequential. They infused the matatu practices in their politics and organised themselves in traditions unique to themselves. Since they occupied the lower strata of the political system, the main players and especially the pioneer political leaders chose to ignore them but to their peril. They opted to go for positions in the county councils, cooperative societies, farmers’ associations and land-buying companies, while their sophisticated counterparts were buying shares in stock exchange listed blue chip companies.  ENTRY INTO COUNTY COUNCILS As such, a unique culture began to evolve in the county councils, where debates were settled more easily by the fists than by the power of rhetoric through oratory skills. While the elites were grabbing prime beach plots at the Coast and parcels in the major regional towns, they went for large swathes of abandoned quarry land and parcels of wasteland that were quite unattractive to the ruling elites. They subdivided these parcels into smaller portions and allocated some to their hordes of supporters to secure their political bases. They sold the rest to land-hungry urban lower class almost at throwaway prices but maximising on economies of scale to leverage on raw revenue. With time, they became immensely wealthy and liquid to an extent they commenced on a programme of takeover with considerable success. This revenue would come in handy in their political endeavours. As they took over bit by bit the political pulse of the country, they brought along with them the matatu culture, traditions and practices to bear on the political processes. Politics became a dirty game, where the end justified the means and the public good no longer mattered as Charles Njonjo and Prof Josephat Karanja would discover later in their political careers! Soon enough, the country’s political landscape was littered by numerous immensely wealthy semi-literate leaders, whose modus operandi defied hitherto known rules of engagement. Their business empires now competed favourably with the blue chip conglomerates, which bankrolled the political activities of the pioneer national elites. The fortunes of these multinational corporations also began to dwindle with the collapse of the Berlin Wall, and the onset of tight iron-fisted control of the Bretton Woods institutions. Political leaders who previously would campaign and get elected on a platform of national development could no longer maintain their support bases against the onslaught of matatu politicians’ handouts to the marauding youths and impoverished women. Violence soon emerged as a vital and preferred currency of political exchange. The economic decline occasioned by the gripping Structural Adjustment Programmes helped to entrench the lawlessness in politics as best understood by the new kids on the block. Before long, there were more former councillors in the National Assembly than was anticipated. They consolidated their previous political support to run roughshod over their more suave colleagues.  BANDIT ECONOMY Since most of the Western-styled businesses were collapsing under the weight of bad internal governance structures and hostile external economic factors, the matatu politicians became emboldened and introduced their previously underworld business activities to the fore. The business practices of this class were more clandestine, mirroring the mafia style of organisation, employing banditry tactics for efficiency. The bandit economy thus became an acceptable means of wealth creation, though it was more of a wealth accumulation system. The Kenya Bus Service was pushed out of the city, while on its knees in spite of having been the envy of our neighbouring countries as an efficient and effective urban transport system. The termini were taken over by Mungiki as the Traffic police and City askaris gave way and, more often than not, offered ancillary armed support. The City Environment staff were replaced by street children, who, having evolved into organised crime groups and recognised as city CBD families, now charged for use of public toilets. In the outlying estates and emerging informal settlements, the matatu politicians established cartels that pushed out the City Council from the control of the supply of essential services. Water connection and meter reading were done without the knowledge and authorisation of the Council officials and bills paid to these cartels. Those residents who still had some faith in the authority of the Council and relied on their supply ran without water for days. On the other hand, those who subjected themselves to the authority of the cartels had uninterrupted water supply and were charged at rates lower than formal ones. For electricity, power was connected without formal approval of Kenya Power officials, but with their tacit support. The cartels would levy monthly charges and collect appropriate fees regularly. Tenants who sought these services from Kenya Power would make countless visits to Electricity House without much success. If and when Kenya Power gave its formal approval for connection, the fees charged would be so prohibitive that the tenant would be forced to seek fraudulent means of connection. At this point, there would be Kenya Power brokers lurking in the vicinity to help the applicant get assistance in revision of the levies charged and fast-tracking the connection upon payment of unreceipted fees. These cartels were syndicated and formed closely knit networks with the matatu politicians as their patrons and who for their protection regularly receive commissions at the chain end. The matatu politics and the bandit economy have now become two sides of the same coin and reinforce each other in the ever dynamic and always growing Kenyan democracy. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga once said, “Kenya is run by mafia-style cartels of political chiefs in cahoots with corrupt business people similar to the Al Capone mob in 1920s America and this cartel collects millions every day.” These cartels have since morphed into more sophisticated business leaders of counterfeit trade, expanding their networks by controlling the illegal supply of social services and thus subverting the county and national government activities. According to the Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the counterfeit economy is worth Sh1.2 billion annually, and the proceeds of this illicit trade are used to support politicians in a big way. “These businessmen are the ones moving the economy but outside of the Kenya Revenue Authority regime and have a stranglehold over other government enforcement agencies.” The political class operating on the rules of the matatu culture are at their beck and call. The alliance between the matatu politics and the bandit economy patronise the tenderpreneurship enterprise as the dominant mode of business operation in this country. The symbiosis is thus the bedrock of money laundering and underground crime. To sustain the unpredictable counterfeit market and maintain a steady cash flow, the cartels have now introduced the narcotics trade to their stable. They have established safe havens for storage and clearing and created secure corridors for carriage and forwarding of high-end narcotic products to middlemen and consumers in the region. Once in a while, the drugs are intercepted and suspects taken through the never-ending court processes until ordinary citizens forget about them. The drugs and the insidious illicit liquor help to establish a patron-clientele network that supports a dependency syndrome for all the players. Today, there are more leaders in Kenya who owe their true allegiance to the matatu-bandit politico-economy than those who stand for a national agenda. They are Cabinet secretaries, MPs, governors, MCAs and members of other government agencies such as the armed forces. Unless some brave nationalist leader emerges to challenge the hegemony of this cartel, Kenya will sooner than later drop any pretenses to the Independence vision and warmly embrace the allure of the bounties of this criminal syndicate.  