IT was John F. Kennedy who said that the time to repair the roof is when
the sun is shining. Some Jubilee insiders think that Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja could be a student of
this wisdom. His recent dalliance with NASA leaders, particularly his
involvement in the release of Embakasi MP Babu
Owino, is quite telling, they say. For a man whose aim was to become
Nairobi Governor, some believe that Sakaja has begun a strategic offensive to
expand his political base. Whether he would jump ship to NASA is not known.
What is clear however is that the once-TNA chairman is an ambitious politician –
but also among the most tolerant politicians the country has. **** WHERE did firebrand Mbita North
legislator Millie Odhiambo go? This
is the big question her supporters are asking themselves. She was very active
outside the Supreme Court during the hearing of the petition challenging
President Uhuru Kenyatta’s August 8
election, but has since then faded from the limelight. On Wednesday night, she
re-surfaced on KTN's Big Story, defending the controversial pay perks for MPs
as “money going to my people”. Well. ***** A Jubilee governor recently
found himself in an awkward position. It is said the county boss leaves home
for office fully dressed up in a suit and tie but on arriving at his office, he
changes to just a pair of shorts and a vest. Blame it on the hot weather
conditions across the country, perhaps. According to our mole, the well-known
politician has been meeting MCAs and other visitors while dressed down in the “Coastal
attire”. Not so last week, when a Western diplomat paid him a courtesy call.
When the secretary called to alert him that the ambassador was waiting in the
VIP room, the governor, who had already changed to his shorts had to hurriedly
jump into his suit and tie. ***** THE Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission's routine release of investigations reports seems to
have moved from bad to worse since the dramatic exit of former chairman Mumo Matemo three years ago. The
commission now led by a man of the cloth, retired Archbishop Eliud Wabukala, no longer releases
monthly and quarterly graft reports for the public and media to know the status
of investigations as used to happen during Matemo's reign. Although the two
reports were not uploaded promptly on the EACC's website, manual copies were
often deposited in Parliament on time for MPs and the media to scrutinise. It
seems the current EACC leadership has not embraced the much-hyped Jubilee
government's digital programme. The last monthly investigations progress report
posted is for August 2013. Click here for the latest political news