Late last year, the Kiambu and Kilifi county assemblies passed bills seeking to restrict 70 per cent of all private and public jobs to the ‘dominant ethnic group’. This purportedly to prioritise employment of those who belong to the counties over perceived outsiders. The bills are a blatant misinterpretation of the essence of devolution in terms of conceptualisation and objectives. Article 174 of the Constitution provides that devolution is meant to give powers of self-governance to the people. It enhances their participation in the exercise of the powers of the state and in making decisions that affect them. But the Constitution also provides that devolution is meant to foster national unity. It specifically recognises diversity and explicitly seeks to protect and promote the interests and rights of minorities and marginalised communities. Tribalism threatens our very national fabric. It has led to perennial conflicts. Parliament created the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to monitor and investigate individuals and issues that threaten cohesion. Ideally, the NCIC should move to the High Court to have these laws declared unconstitutional. Article 56 requires the state, which includes the county governments, to put in place affirmative action programmes to ensure that minorities and marginalised groups participate and are represented in governance and other spheres of life. However, a closer look at the last county governments and the new ones after the election shows blatant disregard of the constitutional requirement on inclusivity in appointments and opportunities. The jury is still out whether it simply reflects the Kenyan realpolitik, meaning that they are based on practical rather than moral or ideological considerations. Tribalism and ethnic-based policies put merit, skill sets and qualification on the back burner. Instead, incompetence, graft, parochialism and favouritism ensure that good and honest service delivery remains a mirage. When qualified individuals are employed then the people of that county will reap the true benefits of devolution. Competence translates to good services in hospitals, the best infrastructure, well-informed and prudent investments. These will in turn foster and encourage entrepreneurship and increase jobs. Choosing from the dominant tribe narrows a county’s choices in terms of merit and competence. Does it benefit the dominant group if one of their own loots or mismanages county resources? Would such an official even invest in the county and risk being discovered? Wouldn’t he spend or invest the proceeds of his plunder in a faraway county, thus developing another economy? Kiambu and Kilifi have started a dangerous trend that, if not checked, might be used to further aggravate sentiments against nationhood in an already deeply divided country. It will trigger an avalanche of similar laws that will legitimise most counties as tribal territories in a patchwork of this state called Kenya. What happens to the millions of Kenyans who were born in counties they are not native to? Are they to seek jobs where their grandparents were born? Is their legal status different from, say, an ethnic Nandi residing in Nandi county or a Luo in Homa Bay? Maybe Kiambu and Kilifi’s actions are a true reflection of what is already unofficially happening throughout most, if not all, of the counties. This is an opportunity to examine why some parts of the Constitution are treated as essential whilst others are simply ignored or treated like calligraphic text. Chapter Six on Leadership and Integrity and provisions on inclusivity, affirmative action and even the two-thirds gender rule come to mind. Devolution, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalised, patriotism, national unity, the rule of law, democracy, human dignity, free expression and access to information, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability are different sides of the same coin. Without any of them, then Kenya does not work for all its people as it should. Senior legal officer, Article 19 Eastern Africa demaslaw@gmail.com www.demasvox.com @kipdemas  