Two top Jubilee politicians, critical of NASA leader Raila Odinga, threw an expensive bash on Tuesday night at a popular high-end club in the leafy Muthaiga suburb. Objective? To celebrate the ‘aborted’ swearing-in ceremony. The lawmakers, who were accompanied by a wealthy business magnate, ordered expensive liquor for any patron who cared to indulge, toasting each other in utter mockery of Tuesday’s inauguration fete. Some broke into Kikuyu traditional song and dance as they drank the night away, swearing that Raila will never be President. “This was the last nail in Raila’s coffin, he is finished!” yelled one of the MPs. ****** Attempts by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to reach NASA chief Raila Odinga on the phone on Tuesday night hit a dead end as his calls went unanswered. The Wiper leader, who claimed yesterday morning that his Karen home had come under attack, tried unsuccessfully for hours on end to call his coalition's Number One. A close aide to Raila said he is yet to come to terms with the betrayal by his colleagues at the hour of need and their boycott of the swearing-in ceremony. Raila was reportedly happy and feeling relieved that he had taken the oath he had promised his supporters. For Raila, it was a debt he had paid to his supporters and ancestors. The Bible he swore upon is reportedly the same one his father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga used when he took the oath of office of founding Vice President in 1964. ****** A NASA governor from Nyanza who is facing a petition challenging his election has panicked after a section of MPs accused him of sabotaging Opposition programmes in his county. The county chief, who has been restless since the petition advanced to full hearing, was missing at the Uhuru Park swearing-in of Raila Odinga. His opponents are plotting to deny him the ODM ticket should he lose the petition and a by-election is ordered as part of his punishment for forsaking Baba. Since the petition hearing began, the governor has never set foot in his official county office. He has been conducting official business from a private office. ****** A rebel Jubilee MP is not about to toe the line any time soon. The vocal MP, who has differed with DP William Ruto on many occasions, now says he is ready to pay the ultimate price as long as he continues fighting for the welfare of his electorate. The outspoken MP was overheard within Parliament Buildings telling his colleagues that politics is not for the faint-hearted. Our mole tells Corridors he even told them not to rely on handouts or on any personality to succeed politically.