Jubilee yesterday told off NASA leaders over threats that the country will plunge into chaos if President Uhuru Kenyatta will not accept dialogue by Monday next week. Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju, Majority Leader in the National Assembly Aden Duale and a host of MPs said the remarks were reckless and irresponsible. Read: Forget 'chaotic' Raila oath, focus on beating Ruto in 2022, Kuttuny tells NASA They said the threats amounted to blackmail aimed at attempting to force Uhuru to form a coalition government. NASA principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka on Sunday warned of a possible civil war if Jubilee does not accept dialogue. “The government is in place and we have the President and Deputy President who are legally in office. There is no need to engage them,” Tuju told the Star on phone yesterday. Duale said Kenyans “held dialogue in the August 2017 election and another will be held in 2022 through ballot.” He said Raila and Kalonzo should use Parliament to champions any reforms they wish to implement. Read: NASA, Jubilee talk tough ahead of Raila swearing REFORMS “Raila and Kalonzo should take their time and read the mood of Kenyans. No one is with them. The country has moved on and Kenyans want to see the Jubilee manifesto rolled out,” Duale said. “It is sad that he [Kalonzo] wants to be the President of a country in which he is calling for civil war. They should know that Jubilee will not be intimidated or blackmailed.” The Garissa Township MP said Parliament - both the Senate and the National Assembly - was ready to listen to all Kenyans, including Raila and Kalonzo, on any reforms they wish to see in the Constitution. Read: Sober up or plunge Kenya into chaos, Sapit warns politicians On Sunday while presiding over a People’s Assembly in Mombasa, Raila and Kalonzo gave Uhuru a seven-day ultimatum to accept dialogue, failing which the country will go to civil war. “This country is headed for a civil war and I am telling Uhuru to call Raila in the next one week or things will go bad,” Kalonzo said. “There will be no elections in 2022 if the 2017 issue will not have been resolved,” Raila said. MPs Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Nelson Koech (Belgut) and David Pkosing (Pokot South) asked police and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to take action against the NASA leaders. DEMONS Wangari asked Kalonzo to apologise to Kenyans, saying women and children will suffer in case a civil war breaks out. “It is unfortunate that the remarks were made by a high ranking leader in this country. Kalonzo saw what happened in 2007/08 and he should not be allowed to cause tension,” Wangari said. Pkosing said he was shocked by Kalonzo’s statement. “We know him as a God-fearing man. I think bishops should pray for Kalonzo because the path he is taking is dangerous. He may have been possessed by demons,” Pkosing said. Click here for the latest political news  