The sole heroic nurse treating patients under an acacia tree at Baringo’s Riongo dispensary quit a well-paying job at a prestigious children’s hospital in Karen, Nairobi. “I wanted to give back to my rural community,” Stephen Saban, 30, told the Star. “Otherwise, I wouldn’t be working in this harsh, dehumanising environment.” He holds a diploma in Nursing from the Kenya Medical Training College. Saban treats poverty-stricken patients of Riongo dispensary in drought-stricken Tiaty subcounty. The structure is unusable, so he treats them at his own home, a few metres away. He works amid snakes and scorpions. Saban’s colleagues fled, citing intolerable working conditions after a storm blew off the roof of the dispensary eight months ago. It has not been repaired. The wind destroyed Sh5 million property, including equipment, medicine, supplies, beds, fixtures and furniture. The facility has no water. Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony promised the county would rebuild the facility once the assembly allocates funds. Saban thanks his father, Solomon Cherindis, who insisted he go to school, despite the Pokot culture that values cattle rustling and early marriage. Now he lives with his father. More than a year ago, Saban walked out of Gate-Root Children’s Hospital in Muthaiga estate, Nairobi, to go back to his people. He used to earn Sh100,000 monthly, plus allowances. Now he earns half. “Today, I have nothing to celebrate in terms of pay after getting the government job. Instead, it’s the personal calling that pushes me to give back to my community. IMPROVISES When the Star met Saban on Saturday, he was braving the scorching sun to attend to patients — mostly pregnant women, children and the elderly. He was attending to three malaria patients, others suffering from respiratory infections and another group from diarrhoea. Poor hygiene and water shortage are to blame for some ailments. Typically, he works outside his house under an acacia tree. Saban constantly grapples with problems. “I have to improvise some equipment, even to store drugs and keep my documents. Sometimes wind blows away my writing materials,” he said. It is unethical to serve patents in an open place, as it violates their privacy, but I can’t do anything about it because they have to be helped, he said. In a month, Saban tends to more than 250 patients, including about 180 pupils from the neighbouring Riongo and Naudo primary schools. The place is home to many snakes, scorpions and spiders. Saban has been bitten twice by scorpions while treating patients. “I thank God I survived. I braved the painful bites twice. I injected myself with anti-venom drugs, locked myself up in my room for a few days and later returned to serve my people,” he said on January 25. He uses a nearly collapsed structure for emergency cases and drugs storage. LONG DRY SPELL Saban appealed to the Baringo county government to fast-track renovation of the health facility. He wants two nurses hired to help him. He also urged the county and national governments to improve education standards in the subcounty so more students can join secondary schools and colleges. “We need to hire more professionals from the area. They can easily stand the harsh weather here to serve their people,” Saban said. The entire subcounty relies on one doctor. Sapan said the doctor is burdened because he struggles to meet the needs of more than 150,000 people. Because the facility also lacks water, every week Saban digs deep into his own pockets to buy it from a bowser. It supplies water from the Chemolingot or Ng’inyang rivers 40km away. He spends as much as Sh2,000 each time. “The drought is real in Tiaty. I frequently receive patients who are physically weak because of dehydration,” Saban said last month. Resident Hosea Kipkukat appealled to the county to hire more staff to help. Chebokamarmar Lomadei said many pregnant women rely on home delivery by unskilled midwives because the dispensary is in a shambles. Mothers suffer. Many cannot withstand the scorching sun to get help from Saban. They suffer dehydration that undermines their health. “We need sufficient water to carry out deliveries and support expectant mothers,” he said. Saban has urged the county to supply water to schools. He blames some of the diseases on water shortage, which leads to unhygienic conditions in schools and homes. Silale MCA Nelson Lotela has urged Governor Stanley Kiptis to use emergency cash to put on a new roof, do basic repairs and buy equipment. He also told the county to supply water to public facilities in the drought-ravaged subcounty.  