Kenyatta National Hospital has refuted claims that it has dismissed the rape allegations against the facility CEO Lilly Koros on Saturday told reporters they only said they had not received any official complaint from the victims. She said that there is a file where such incidences are reported and by the time the matter was raised there had not been any incidence recorded. "We have not dismissed the claims that is why we have invited the DCI to conduct thorough investigations and take necessary action. Only that by the time we came to the press yesterday there was no single incident that had not been reported," she said. Koros further appealed to Kenyans to stop baseless speculations and let the DCI handle the matter. "All I can say is for us to allow the various security agencies investigate the matter so that at the time we are presenting our report we base it on facts and not speculations," she said. So far the CEO has been summoned by the Parliamentary Committee on Health to explain the allegations of rape cases at the facility. Koros is expected to appear before the Committee to give a report on the outcome of the investigations of the chilling rape claims. She will also be expected to give a detailed status report of equipment at the hospital in the meeting scheduled for Friday 26 next week. Read:CEO Lilly Koros summoned by House Committee over KNH rape allegations Also Read:KNH CEO Lily Koros writes to DCI for probe into rape claims The summon comes just a day after the hospital was put on the spot over claims of breastfeeding mothers being allegedly raped. The reports indicated that mothers who go through Cesarean are at a high risk when they go to breastfeed their newborns. Read:Why rape breastfeeding mothers? KNH on spot after public outcry Earlier in the day women parliamentarians led by Nairobi Woman Rep Esther Passaris and her Murang'a counterpart Sabina Chege visited the facility for a fact finding mission where they were held in several hours of closed door meeting. Passaris said there is need for the hospital to employ more women guards to protect women especially along the maternity wards. She also appealed to any women who might have been harassed in anyway at the facility to come out and boldly speak her ordeal so that the issues can be amicably handled. Sabina Chege on her side said they had established that overcrowding in the wards might also be one reason why some women decide to take leave and get fresh air. For instance she said the ward that is supposed to hold only 19 mother has been forced to hold 93 an issue that he say county governments must strive to upgrade their referral facilities so that KNH only handles serious cases. She also hinted that some of those taking advantage to harass the women are male employees who have been discharged but detained due to medical bills. Also Read:Rape claim by nursing mum at KNH sparks social media uproar