This year, Kenyans will be watching what governors will do to meet expectations. From a macro perspective, what happens in the counties in 2018 is crucial because successful implementation of the third Medium Term Plan ( 2018-2022 ) of Kenya Vision 2030 requires collaboration with and active participation by the devolved units. The national government says it will focus its development agenda on four main areas — growing the manufacturing sector, expanding access to universal health coverage, providing affordable and decent housing and enhancing food and nutrition security. In these areas, the counties have a role to play, especially in the health function, which is largely devolved, and in food security. Positive relations between the two levels of government is crucial for success of devolution and the national government agenda. It is imperative to evaluate implementation of the first Cycle County Integrated Development Plans and address problems bedevilling devolution since 2013 to address emerging strategic issues. Analysis of the challenges, lessons learnt and performance gaps should inform development of the second cycle CIDP for 2018-2022. Key challenges facing counties were weak governance framework and inadequate operational capacity. The latter has had detrimental effects in most counties, the major one being inability to absorb and optimally utilise their budgets. On one hand, reports from the Controller of Budget and the National Treasury indicate most counties underutilised their budget. On the other hand, the counties blame Treasury for limited funding or delayed funds release. But undoubtedly, challenges such as low performance of own-source revenue, poor quality of policies and laws, and poor services can all be attributed, largely to the weak technical and institutional capacity. Capacity building is therefore a key area governors need to focus on. It should also be an area for complementary support by the state, for several reasons. First, improved capacity enhances policy, planning, budgeting and programme execution continuum. This will not only improve absorption of development funds, but also enable them conform to fiscal responsibility principles spelt out in the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012 — ensuring at least 30 per cent of allocations go into development — not more than 35 per cent into salaries. Capacity building would also improve the quality of CIDPs, the core policy blueprints guiding development. Better quality CIDPs translates to more effective functional Strategic Plans and Annual Work Plans guilding day-to-day operations of county departments, hence, better services.   Better human resource capacity means improved policies and laws, hence, better utilisation of resources and improved services. Addressing capacity challenges will enhance revenue collection and management, as well as improved assets management. What are the capacity-building they need to exploit? First is to appreciate a mix of public servants. The first category are those inherited from the national government and have a relatively good level of skills and understanding of operations. However, they still need to be capacity-enhanced to adopt best practices. The other category are those employed in 2013, mainly to reward political supporters. Most of these were largely employed based on regional dynamics, clannism, nepotism and other non-professional factors. They require greater training support than the first category. Capacity-building programmes should be tailor-made to address specific capacity gaps identified through capacity needs assessment. However, some cross-cutting capacity-building areas would be applicable to all the counties. These include Training Needs Assessment, approaches to public engagement in policy and budgeting, application of county profiles in planning, medium-term expenditure framework budgeting, organisational design, strategic planning, performance management They also include job evaluation, staff rationalisation, resource mobilisation and project management; monitoring, evaluation and reporting, labour laws; law drafting;internal auditing;and cross-cutting issues such as gender, HIV-Aids and disability mainstreaming, among others. Most important is the need for demand-driven training programmes based on the mandate and core business of the counties.