Kilifi county will be too hot to sustain any vegetation by 2030, the weatherman has warned. The meteorological department said the county will be hit by a severe drought if proper measures are not taken now. Ganze and Magarini Sub Counties are most affected by climate change as they are synonymous with charcoal production. Read; Climate change makes farmers turn to pulses The department has called on the national and county governments, and other non-state actors in environmental matters, to urgently come up with proper strategies to address climate change. Kilifi Met services Ramadhan Munga said heat levels in the county have been escalating while rainfall diminishes due to human activities that have led to massive destruction of trees. “For more than 30 years now, the level of heat is increasing at a high rate and the level of rainfall is decreasing year after year," he said. "This has changed our rain patterns. The rains are now short and start much later than expected. Trees are being cut down yet a very small percentage of our land is covered by trees. Low vegetation cover has led to high dehydration of the soil. "By 2030 the level of heat will have increased beyond our control and the amount of rainfall that we will be expecting in Kilifi will not support and sustain food production." The official noted that in 2017, the county recorded the highest temperatures (33 to34 degrees Celsius) and a low of 26 degrees. “This shows the least heat level is diminishing while the highest heat level is increasing. This means that if we do not take proper action to control the heat, the county will not be able to produce enough food to sustain its people," he said at Pwani University on Monday. Also read:Culture and climate change are key components of France’s diplomacy Munga noted the vegetation cover in Kilifi is low so there is need to plant more trees in accordance with scientific findings. He advised farmers to invest in tree planting and dig dams. The officer said the metrological department was in the process of setting new, fully equipped weather centres in order to collect the needed data. “We have automatic weather stations in Ganze and another one will be in Marafa. If no proper measures are put in place come 2030, the level of heat will be very high according to the focus,” he said. Kilifi's NEMA officer Isaac Kimitei said they were implementing the County Environment Action Plan. . They are also working to ensure the plan is factored into the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP). “If it is factored into the CIDP for five years, we will know the priority areas to work on." Click here for the latest political news