Tension remains high on the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties after bandits continuously shot in the air in preparation for revenge attacks. Locals at the border in Kerio Valley said hundreds of locals spent the night in the snake-infested Kerio escarpments on Sunday night following the night of gunshots. At least five people were shot dead after suspected Marakwet bandits raided Chesegon, West Pokot county on Friday. The raid sparked a fierce shootout as Pokot herders mounted a retaliatory attack after more than 300 cows, 663 goats and 16 sheep were stolen. “There were reports that Pokot bandits were regrouping in a plan to raid several villages. The raiders have been shooting in the air every night since Friday,” resident Wilson Kiptoo said. Kiptoo said women and children spent the night in caves on the escarpment for fear of retaliatory attacks. spoiling for fight He said bandits from both sides of the two warring communities are spoiling for a fight since the stolen livestock has not been recovered. The body of one Marakwet man killed during the Friday attacks on the border has not been recovered. “People only travel during the day because of fear of ambush by bandits during the night,” Kiptoo said. Yesterday, security agencies in Marakwet held meetings to find ways to restore calm. Marakwet East deputy county commissioner Stephen Sangolo said, “The situation on the ground is calm today.” Efforts to recover the body of one of the victims were futile after bandits repulsed police officers in an armoured personnel carrier on Sunday. The deceased, Nathan Korir, 19, from Marakwet East, was killed alongside three Pokot herders in Cheptulel, West Pokot. Elgeyo Marakwet leaders, led by Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich, visited the area on Sunday for a series of peace meetings and called for urgent measures to restore peace. Rotich urged Pokot neighbours to release the body for burial as leaders engage in dialogue in an attempt to recover stolen animals and restore peace. Kapyego MCA Evans Limo said Pokot and Marakwet locals living in Kamelei on the border met to seek a truce after 18 cows were stolen on December 31.      