MPs will push for transfer of non-performing school heads when they meet CS Fred Matiang’i next month to discuss the region’s poor education performance. The lawmakers have identified absenteeism among teachers, poor infrastructure, insufficient tutors and insecurity as the major factors in students’ poor performance in national exams. No student from the region scored a straight A in the KCSE exam. Coast Parliamentary Group chairman Suleiman Dori said on Wednesday they will propose tough measures to force teachers to either perform or be transferred. Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo said they will also push for employment of more teachers, especially in counties like Lamu and Tana River with a low teacher-student ratio The two counties have faced problems of terrorism, community clashes and crime. “Teachers sought to be transferred because of insecurity. Some students were forced to lose a whole term because of insecurity. We want these challenges addressed,” Mbogo told the Star on the phone. He said lawmakers want funding to build new national schools and upgrade existing ones to the level of Alliance High. Matuga Girls, Shimo la Tewa, Kwale Boys and Bahari Secondary are among the region’s national schools. Kilifi Women Representative Getrude Mbeyu said teachers are obliged to attend too many meetings, leaving them with fewer hours for lessons. “The meetings have to be reduced for teachers to stay in school and do their primary work,” she said.  FORGIVE PETTY OFFENCES Mbeyu said they support the crackdown on gambling dens to allow children to concentrate on their studies. She accused principals of wrongly forcing students to drop out of school because of petty offences. “Principals who give heavy punishments and those sending students away for balances of Sh100 or Sh500 should be arrested,” Mbeyu said. In a meeting with the Coast MPs on Wednesday in Mombasa, Matiang’i said stern action will be taken against heads charging tuition fees in day secondary schools. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said there were not enough teachers in the region. “Most schools have to employ teachers through their Boards of Management. That cost is passed on to parents,” he said. He also asked the CS to ensure schools have the well-equipped laboratories. 