Kenyans posted mixed performance in the first round of the Eastern African Junior Championships held at Nairobi Club yesterday. Alicia Owegi and Nicole Agufana were triumphant in the girls’ category after edging out Mosimam lia-Kishiki of Uganda 6-3, 6-1 and Tanzania’s Shana Mao 7-5,4-6, 7-6 respectively. The two were joined in the second round by their counterpart Radha Raja, who cruised over Uganda’s Hananny Wanjiku with a similar set margin of 6-0. Cynthia Cheruto floored Aziza Manirakiza of Burundi 6-1,6-1 to advance to the second round. However, Kenyan Hamida Rajab lost 6-0,6-0 to Esther Paulo of Tanzania to end her quest of the East African championship. Jocelyn Chepngetich also lost 6-4, 7-6 to Arielle Horpinitech of Seychelles. In the boys category, Samuel Urasa advanced to the second round after beating Burundian national Aboubakar Ndayishimiye 6-2, 6-2. Urasa was joined in the second round by compatriot Subai Hooker, who overcame stiff resistance from Rwandese opponent Emmanuel Ishimwe to win 6-4, 6-4. Kennedy Musembi beat Ugandan Arnold Jurua 7-6,7-5 while Mwendwa Mutuku lost to Salum Mutabazi of Burundi 6-4, 7-5. In other results played at the same venue, Nicholas Hamisi of Tanzania saw off Humprey Ouma of Uganda 7-6, 6-1 while Rashid Ramadhan of Tanzania beat another Ugandan national Elijah Mudanga 6-0, 6-0. Ugandan duo of Joel Mwisuke beat Tanzanian opponen Jordan Leringa 6-2,6-4 while and Marvin Kiriwo eliminated Damasi Kinabo also from Tanzania 6-1, 5-7, 6-0. In the girls’ category, Patience Athieno of Uganda humiliated her Tanzanian opponent Victoria Ndossi 6-1, 6-0 while Rwandan national Belyse Irakoze edged out Burundian national Mariam Bigirimana 6-2, 6-1.  In London, three-times grand slam champion Andy Murray underwent hip surgery on Monday but he is optimistic about his chances of returning in time for Wimbledon and believes he can still challenge for major titles. The 30-year-old Briton has not played a competitive match since hobbling to defeat by Sam Querrey in the Wimbledon quarter-finals six months ago and last week he withdrew from the Australian Open. “Today I underwent successful right hip surgery at the St Vincent Hospital in Melbourne,” Murray said on Facebook. “I’d like to thank Dr John O’Donnell and all of the staff for looking after me. I look forward to returning to competitive tennis during the grasscourt season,” he added. “Thanks to everyone for all the well wishes and support over the last few days. I’ll come back from this.” Murray, who ended 2016 as world number one, has slipped down to 19th in the rankings but the Scot is confident he can return to the top of the sport. “I’m not finished playing tennis yet. I’m going to be competing at the highest level again,” Murray was quoted as saying by the BBC. “I’m very optimistic about the future - the surgeon is very happy about how it went.” Murray is expected to return home in a week or two to continue his recovery and rehabilitation. The twice Wimbledon champion and reigning Olympic champion has made it back from surgery before after having an operation to his lower back at the end of 2013. He went on to win a second Wimbledon title in 2016 and played arguably the best tennis of his career.