MAYBE EACC Chairman Archbishop Eliud Wabukala should hear this. A
senior official from the EACC has been overheard swearing that a former
politician thought to be ranking highly in President Uhuru Kenyatta's list of preferred Cabinet nominees will not be cleared
and appointed CS. The politician is seen as one of the few leaders who
performed well during their tenure. But the EACC official, also interested in
being elevated to a Cabinet Secretary, is said to have launched a vicious war
against the politician, who comes from his home county. It is said the
anti-graft agency official believes both of them cannot make it. What happened
to professionalism?  THE relationship between
Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko and his
deputy Polycarp Igathe could be
irreparable. Why? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that the no- nonsense
Sonko has changed the locks of Igathe's office and allegedly fired his
secretary. Those in the know say the flamboyant city politician is ready to go
it alone and is not keen on the truce being spearheaded by politicians, mostly
allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta.
Call it Things Fall Apart! Igathe was to quit by the end of the month. But with
Sonko determined to move on fast, it appears Igathe has no access to City Hall
anymore.  A member of NASA’s People’s
Assembly organising committee is now cursing why he accepted to take up the
position, claiming some principals are out to frustrate their effort by
constantly reneging on the swearing-in plot. The architect claimed their
committee is in the dark after last week's cancellation of the Machako's People’s
Assembly forum with no solid reason. He is blaming two NASA co-principals who he
claimed are more interested in finding a truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta than pushing the
opposition agenda.  NATIONAL Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale rarely has any kind words
for his former party ODM. But the Garissa Township MP recently shocked
onlookers in Parliament after he openly backed the Orange Party on the NASA
House leadership row. Duale was heard speaking loudly, saying just like a
company, political parties only get dividends depending on their share. This he
said to imply that the other three affiliate parties cannot ride on ODM's back
to get slots in the House when they don’t have the numbers. Well, it’s said
that the truth does not change according to our ability to stomach it.  Click here for the latest political news