Expert witnesses will be called to shed light in a case seeking to decriminalise a section of the Penal Code that makes it illegal to have consensual same sex. Senior counsel Paul Muite, representing the petitioner, told a three-judge bench they will call a psychiatrist to explain sexual orientation and why the government should not regulate matters of intimacy. “The witnesses will table reports before the court to demonstrate the biological and even social conditions that explains sexual orientation,” Muite said. Eric Gitari director of the National Gay and Lesbian Rights Commission, filed a case to decriminalise Sections 162 and 165 of the Penal Code. He argues that the sections are discriminatory and violate various provisions of the Constitution. These include right to equality, freedom from discrimination, human dignity, freedom and security of the person and right to privacy.  gross indecency Section 162 states that “Any person who - (a) has carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature; or (b) has carnal knowledge of an animal; or(c) permits a male person to have carnal knowledge of him or her against the order of nature, is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for 14 years”.  degrading Section 165 states that any male person who, whether in public or private, commits any act of gross indecency with another male person, or procures another male person to commit any act of gross indecency with him, or attempts to procure the commission of any such act by any male person with himself or with another male person, whether in public or private, is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for five years. Gitari argues that his petition has nothing to do with same sex marriage, does not seek the legislation of same sex marriage and will not, if successful, have the effect of mandating or requiring Kenya to recognise same sex marriage. He argues that the law criminalising relevant conduct such as unnatural and grossly indecent are degrading. The bench consolidated the case with another petition filed by John Mathenge and four others, who are also seeking the same orders. “The petition only concerns the criminalisation and severe punishment under the criminal law of a whole section of Kenyan society on account of the fundamental and innate characteristic of the sexual orientation,” Muite said. The case will be heard on February 22.