Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has proposed the merger of NASA affiliate parties to curb a possible fallout.   He said the political differences being experienced in NASA are a result lack of a solid command structure. Speaking in Siaya, Malala said this hampers the coalition’s attempt to reach a consensus on a number of plans. “What is appearing as a possible fall out in NASA is due to conflict of interests. Party officials want to front their own opinion,” Malala said. Read: NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny He added that by collapsing NASA into a single party, command will come from one source. Malala said it is the only way to restore sanity in the coalition. “We should have sworn in Raila Odinga a long time, were it not for the dissenting opinions from affiliate parties,” Malala said. The senator said the coalition will easily read from the same script if his merger proposal is adopted. Malala was backed by three ODM legislators. They said merging would revitalised the coalition. Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda, who weighed in on the issue, said the proposal is an idea whose time has come. He said it’s healthy to have few political parties as opposed to many small ones that  breed disquiet. Ochanda said the direction Jubilee took to merge its affiliates helped unify its members His Gem counterpart Elisha Odhiambo said merging will bring harmony and stability.  Odhiambo said the plan should be looked at in the context of the Constitution to avoid denying anyone               his -her democratic right. The MP said the proposal should be implemented in a way that will created more democratic space. Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala said the proposal to merge NASA should have been done like yesterday. Wanjala regretted they lost many Western region seats to Jubilee because NASA affiliate parties competed among themselves “We would have secured many seats in both Houses had we merged  parties early before the last General Elections,” Wanjala said. Click here for the latest political news