Kenya Commercial Bank Chief executive Joshua Oigara has proposed introduction of sector caps to replace the intrest rate caps following increasing difficulties to access credit by some sectors. “We see a situation where sectors of the economy will have some sector sealing where you cant lend so much to them based on their ability to repay the credit,ultimately we will need to come up with a way to come out of the cap by providing concessions ” he said. Oigara also noted that it is not enough for industry experts and all involved stakeholders to say that the law capping interest rates deserves an amendment since it is adverse, and that what needs to be done is negotiations and the banks to provide leadership on the same. Some of the sectors put on the spotlight include Agriculture, Housing and the Small Medium Enterprises which might end up paying higher interest rates if the proposed risk-based lending comes into effect. While noting a possible delay in the review of the cap, the chief executive told journalists that the regime which imposed higher interest rates is long gone since the market trends have also changed. He also suggested that negotiations and concessions between the financial services industry and legislators should be carried out in order to find a quick solution on rising challenges rising from the interest rate cap. According to the bank, there is still demand for loans having posted a 14 per cent increase in loans in 2017 quarter three, with a huge demand for consumer loans which constituted 15 per cent of their total loans. The bank is however faced with a challenge on its non-performing loans which stand 7.9 per cent and 2 per cent on Mobile banking representing a total of Sh30 billion as of September 2017 against a total loan book of Sh450 billion. The industry NPL is currently at 10.9 per cent mostly registered by corporate firms. To resolve the issue, KCB has turned to auctioning vehicles as it seeks to play a lead on the rising NPLS caused by the tight economic conditions “This year alone, we have sold about 250 vehicles, mostly from county governments who have not been unable to pay SMES that we have lend out. It is something that we need to look out on and even introduce a policy on such scenarios,” Oigara said. Last week, the bank put out an advertisement in the dailies that sought to auction at least 67 cars in order to recover accruing debt. From the sale of these vehicles, KCB is set to net over Sh125 million . In partnership with other financial service providers, the bank is also looking at setting up a Special Assets Group of commercial banks that will be looking at early warnings in corporates that might experience difficulties in paying loans. 