The
matter of the importation of maize from Mexico later said to have come from
South Africa came up in the 11th Parliament. However, we could not deal with
the matter as it was towards the tail end of that Parliament. It
was unclear how the whole process was handled and I think in this Parliament,
we should be able to open up the matter and get to the bottom of it. Recently,
the government announced the end of the unga subsidy and immediately millers
hiked the prices. The ministry of Agriculture should have provided the number
of bags each miller was allocated and the total number of bags that were
imported into the country. Related: I'll expose names behind importation of maize from Mexico - Raila Through
that we would know if it is true the millers exhausted the maize that was
allocated to each one of them. There are a lot of loopholes in all this that
need to be looked at. The retail prices of unga should not have changed immediately
the subsidy was lifted. Another
thing that I need to point out is the issue of the cost production of flour.
The millers should be compelled to explain to Kenyans the exact cost of
producing the flour so that we know if the farmer is getting value for his or
her investment. Farmers and consumers are suffering at the hands of millers and
cartels in the unga industry. The miller is getting double profits from flour
and other products that come from the maize – including animal feed. Read: Mexican maize was shipped from South Africa, says Transport PS Therefore,
there should be a structured way of doing things, especially in a sector that
is the main backbone of Kenya’s economy. I
need to point out that it will be difficult for the committee on Agriculture to
investigate this matter, as the chairman is an appointee of the Executive. Considering
that I had institutional memory in the committee, I had promised Kenyans to
ensure that we streamline some of these things so that the farmers get value for
their investment and the consumer as well is protected from exploitation by the
cartels in the industry. The
public, especially farmers, should be proactive in demanding quality services
from both the national government and the counties. Let
us hope that one day we will get the truth about the maize and how it was imported
and from which country. The writer was recently
elected chairman of the Agriculture committee before he was removed Click here for the latest political news