Naheed Musa exited the helm of the Mombasa Inspectorate department upon retiring on Tuesday. His director post was taken by Mohamed Amir who has worked with the Canadian public safety and security department for the last 15 years. As he leaves, Musa's 18 month stint at the department has come under jagged focus, especially as he was once accused by police of "training militia in a secret shooting range". Police also alleged he was "selling guns illegally" or "leasing them to youth for use in intimidating "his master's' political opponents". He denied the allegations. In January last year, police appeared to be targeting people close to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Musa was not spared. During their purported crackdown on illicit substances, Musa's firearms store in Nyali was raided. On the same day - January 13 - the house of county speaker and Joho's ally Harub Kharti's was ransacked. The operation followed a county security and intelligence committee meeting whose proceedings and deliberations were well known to regional coordinator Nelson Marwa. After the raid, Marwa said Kharti, who was found in possession of three guns, might have gotten or "stolen" them from Musa's store. Related: [VIDEO] Joho wanted suspected drug baron released, was not arrested, says Marwa Kharti was arrested and detained at Mombasa CID headquarters, which Joho stormed to demand his release but remained inside for hours. But it latter emerged that Marwa goofed as Kharti and Musa were found out to be licensed to hold and trade guns respectively. After the police search, Musa said the heavy police presence at his shop was normal and that the operation was a routine inspection. “This inspection has come at the wrong time because of too much speculation out there. This thing is very normal." Musa said the officers arrived at his firearms store in Nyali at 10 am to conduct regular inspection which is done four times annually. Further, Marwa claimed that the inspectorate department the former national police reservist headed had recruited ex-military personnel ahead of the August 8 poll. The regional coordinator demanded to know why the employment of traffic marshals had exploded to numbers beyond what was required. He noted the marshals were absent from nominal roles and were apparently being paid cash. These individuals were even not uniformed, he said, and alleged they were to be used politically. But no marshal was reported to have intimidated Joho's political opponents ahead of the vote or interfered with the voting process. On Tuesday, Musa said he was happy with his departure from the department. "It is always sad to leave the place where you started but I have to move on. Age has caught up with me," he said. He added his successors' wealth of experience will be helpful to the inspectorate. Click here for the latest political news