A
cloud of uncertainty hangs over the country as we approach January 30, the day on which Raila Odinga is expected to be sworn in as
the “People’s President”.  No one really
knows what to expect. Political analysts are divided on whether to dismiss
Raila’s plans as an inconsequential political stunt or a serious threat to Kenya's
stability. The spectre of another year of turbulent politics frightens
many people. Yet every indication is that, regardless of what comes of NASA’s
plans, the country is still not out of the woods. The divisive politics of 2017 caused serious damage to Kenya’s psyche and image. Scores of
people lost their lives and many more sustained injuries or suffered untold
losses in the countless riots, demonstrations and strikes. Many people lost hope in the key institutions that make up
the national electoral system. The National
Police Service, IEBC, Supreme Court and the Presidency all came out looking
bad at one point or another. A few weeks into the new year, the two warring camps,
Jubilee Party and NASA, are still throwing punches at each other.
An unhealthy undercurrent of tribal animosity bubbles quietly under the surface.
In spite a barrage of calls for a ceasefire and dialogue, no one has actually come
up with a compelling proposal on how to restore hope and trust in Kenya’s
fractured society. The delay by President Uhuru Kenyatta to name his Cabinet has only
added to the anxiety. The behind the scenes power plays, which are more about
personal interests than about the future of the country, are hindering the
objective resolution of some serious national issues that require sober
reflection and bipartisan collaboration. For example, the Kenya National Union of Nurses and
university lecturers' union are threatening to go on strike again. The education system is in a state of
confusion. Al Shabaab is on the attack
again. Deaths from road accidents continue unabated despite drastic measures by
the NTSA. And, to add to all this, the
Treasury is dangling dangerously on the edge of bankruptcy. In my view, the ball is squarely in Uhuru's
court. The President has been given the
legal authority to organise and lead the government. In spite of the ongoing political pressures
from within and outside of his Jubilee Party, he has the responsibility of
pulling the country together and giving firm direction. More than anything else, the country needs
healing. Catalysing that healing process
may require the President to take some radical, bold steps that could cause
some discomfort in the short term, but whose intention and outcome would be to
finally place Kenya on a path toward nationhood. In a country as diverse as Kenya, nationhood does not come
naturally. It must be crafted and
nurtured intentionally by the country’s leaders. The
late President Julius Nyerere of Tanzania understood this challenge, and perhaps
his greatest gift to his country was his dedication to forging a sense of
national identity through language. Making Kiswahili Tanzania’s national language helped immensely in the
battle against tribalism in Tanzania. Former French President Nicolas Sarkozy also
understood the importance of nationhood.
In November 2009, he formerly launched a nationwide discussion over the
meaning of being French. “What does it mean to be French?” he asked the public. The question provoked a heated public discourse
and brought out a host of issues that had long been simmering under the
surface. Whether Sarkozy’s campaign
was a political ploy or a real exercise in nation-building, the effort to bring
the country to look at itself in the mirror and discuss the essence of
Frenchness was deemed by many people as very healthy. Uhuru begins his final term in
office with the country badly fractured and weary. The single biggest obstacle to his legacy is
not NASA per se, but finding a strategy to break
down the walls of distrust and division that have hindered Kenya from becoming
a nation. If he can unite us, we have a fighting
chance to become an incredible nation.
If we remain divided as we are, we most certainly will fall. The writer is a leadership and
strategy consultant pete.ondeng@gmail.com