The Kenyatta National Hospital plans to review the hours bodies are collected by morgue attendants. This is after rape claims were made against morgue attendants. The rape allegations were made on a Facebook group known as “Buyer Beware”, accusing the hospital of being “a hotspot of all kinds of criminal activities”. Appearing before the Parliamentary Health Committee, KNH chief executive Lily Koros on Friday said the hospital board recommended that bodies be collected at 2am and 4.30am, respectively, instead of the usual 3am. The hospital will also enhance periodic briefing of the mortuary attendants and procure modern body trolleys. On Tuesday this week, the morgue attendants threatened to down their tools until the women accusing them of rape file a formal report with the police. It is alleged the attendants have been instilling fear in mothers, who go to breastfeed their babies at the newborn unit on the first floor, using dead bodies. Koros told the committee the board, which met on Sunday, resolved to have more officers from the National Police Service deployed at the facility to boost security. “We invite the public affected by the rape claims to come out and report to the investigating agencies so we can deal with this issue extensively,” she told the committee. When the rape claims emerged, Koros said they formed a team to investigate the allegations. The preliminary investigations report indicates on the night of January 17, when the claims were made, babies belonging to 94 mothers from the reproductive health unit and 29 mothers from Paediatrics Level 3 were in the newborn unit. On average 120-140 mothers attended to their babies in the unit. None of the mothers from Level 3 had undergone caesarean section. But two mothers – both in postnatal and IA which is on the first floor – delivered through CS. “The two had attended to their babies on that night of January 17 and none of the mothers in reproductive health unit and Paediatrics Level 3 had raised any complaints,” she said. 