Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani has warned coast residents that they risk losing the much-needed development prospects if leaders continue politicking. Mwashetani said the focus should now be on what to be done for the Coast residents and not who should. "Politics is now over. It is time to work. If we will continue engaging in politics, five years will go by without any meaningful development in the region," Mwashetani said on Monday. Read: 'No backing down' Coast People Assembly says on Raila-Kalonzo swearing in Speaking at Junda ward in Ali Mbogo’s Kisauni constituency, the Lunga Lunga MP said all elected leaders at the Coast must work together regardless of party affiliation if the region is to prosper. "Whether you voted for Mbogo or not, he is the Kisauni MP. Whether you voted for Hassan Joho or not, he is the Mombasa governor. Whether you voted for Uhuru Kenyatta or not, he is the President of Kenya," he said. "Let us not waste time politicking with the leaders who are there now. Let us work with the leaders in the position right now," he said. He said party politics will only serve to derail the development initiative planned for Kisauni and other areas of Coast region. The region lags behind because of petty party politics, he noted, adding that the region risks lagging behind in development while other areas develop. "In education, for instance, 70 per cent of those who were to join secondary schools did not do so in Coast. This is something that should make us come together as leaders and ask ourselves why," he noted. He said the drop-out rate from school is increasing instead of decreasing and this needs the efforts and attention of all leaders irrespective of party affiliation. "Our expectation is for this rate to go down but t is going up. I don’t know why. I am a Coastal native and if any native anywhere in the region hurts, I also hurt," Mwashetani said. He said leaders should engage both parents and teachers to find a solution to the increasing dropout rates.  Click here for the latest political news