A section of DP William Ruto's allies in Rift Valley have defended the recent Cabinet nominations by President Uhuru Kenyatta. They denied claims of a split in Jubilee Party following the recent changes in government. Josphat Lowoi, chairman of County Assembly Majority Leaders, said they were satisfied with those appointed by the president so far. He accused the Opposition's NASA coalition of spreading claims that Jubilee is split over the appointments. "Some people in NASA hope they will create non-existent division so they can take advantage. It will not be possible," Lowoi said. He said they fully support Uhuru and the Deputy President and that they will work with the new ministers. Lowoi spoke at a time the president is yet to give a word on the fate of 13 cabinet secretaries who did not feature in his address on Friday last week. Read: How Uhuru named CSs minus Ruto Related: Uhuru drops 13 Cabinet Secretaries, fires cops No tribalism, political interference Separately, Muslim Preachers and Imams asked Uhuru not to be swayed by tribalism and political interests when nominating Cabinet members. Abubakar Bini, chairman of the preachers in Rift Valley, said the president should focus mainly on delivering his mandate, reviving the economy in particular. He noted those to be nominated should be people of integrity, professionalism, and have the capacity to deliver in their dockets. Some of the MCAs in the region also asked Uhuru and Ruto to come up with an all-inclusive cabinet for effective service to the whole country. MCA Peter Chomba of Huruma ward defended Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri saying he should be reappointed because he has done a good job. Chomba said non-Kalenjin communities in Rift Valley should also benefit, especially after backing Uhuru's re-election. The MCA said top positions in government aimed at benefiting residents of Rift Valley should not be reserved for the Kalenjin community. "We have the Kikuyu, Luhya and other communities who should get some of the slots," Chomba said on Tuesday. At the same time, Knut members in Rift Valley said reforms initiated by Education CS Fred Matiang'i must be implemented to improve education standards. John Borr said they want the president to replace Matiang'i with a person who is well-suited for the task. The CS was appointed to man the docket in acting capacity. "Matiang'i has done a good job in the education sector. His replacement should be someone who is reform-minded for the good of the country." Also read: Ruto speaks out on Uhuru Cabinet list Click
here for the latest political news  