Former DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro on Monday said he had done his best as the country's top detective. Muhoro has served as the DCI chief for seven years and three months. President Uhuru Kenyatta last Friday announced changes that saw Muhoro, DIG Joel Kitili and DIG in charge of Administration Police Samuel Arachi leave office. Read; DCI boss Muhoro fired as Uhuru reshuffles police bosses Muhoro, who did not have a written speech said he was walking out a proud man after seven- year’s service. He spoke during a ceremony to hand over to former police spokesman George Kinoti who was appointed as new DCI chief in an acting capacity. Muhoro asked Kinoti to complete the projects that he had initiated to make the directorate more effective in investigations. He also asked senior staff to support the new boss in discharging his new mandate. Kinoti on his part asked officers to embrace teamwork. Kinoti made a comeback to the directorate after 11 years – when he last served as a personal assistant (PA) to the then Director of CID Joseph Kamau.  Besides being the PA, Kinoti was also the head of the Kanga squad –an elite police squad that was disbanded in 2006 following public outcry. The squad was formed to deal with hardcore criminals in the country. He has served in various capacities including his last posting as the National Police Spokesman. Previously, Kinoti was the head of security at the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK). A similar ceremony was held at the Police headquarters, vigilance house where Edward Mbugua, a former Presidential unit Commandant took over as the DIG in charge of Kenya police. Noor Gabow similarly took office as the DIG in charge of APs from Arachi who will await deployment by the Public Service Commission. Gabow is the first officer from the Kenya police service to take the leadership of the AP. Top commanders of the AP have in the past been from the Provincial Administration. Grabow's appointment has been met with a lot of anxiety especially at the AP headquarters, Jogoo house. While some top commanders view him as an outsider, a section of the top brass is hoping that he will professionalize the unit. Also read: New top cops start work with many unresolved cases