Kisumu county leaders have been urged to stop politicking and instead focus on service, which they pledged to deliver during their 2017 campaigns. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili said on Friday that too much politicking is holding back services. He said residents want development, adding that leaders should unite and work together.  “Elections are over and it is time to shift focus to development that will improve people’s lives,” Owili said on Friday. He continued, “We have been given a mandate and we should fulfil the promises for residents to enjoy the services they have yearned for these many years.” Owili urged staff to serve residents and said the electorate will judge them on their development track record. He advised leaders to use funds prudently. “The best way to realise devolution is through proper implementation of projects to benefit our people. Give leaders time to deliver development projects,” Owili said. He said elected leaders should reject empty politics aimed at causing a rift among leaders.” “As leaders, we should embrace political tolerance and avoid confrontation. We should shift our time and energy to service delivery,” Owili said. He said the government will not be derailed by politics, adding it is committed to work better services and the county’s development agenda.  Owili denied claims he is undermining Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o’s administration to ascend to power.  He said the governor’s succession politics for 2022 is at play. “I am aware they are planning bad things which I will tell the public about it,” Owili said on Tuesday. accused of plot Senator Fred Outa and speaker Onyango Oloo accused the deputy governor of plotting to destabilise Nyong’o’s government. They said on Sunday that speculation about Nyong’o’s health is ill-intentioned and is aimed at enabling his deputy to take over leadership.  Nyong’o has had successful hip replacement surgery in the US and writes about it in the Star’s Siasa section on Saturday. His office had been saying he was in the US on official duties and denied any medical issues.