Kenya’s innovative spirit is blooming and Expo 2020 Dubai will be an ideal opportunity to showcase the impressive advancements and opportunities that we are witnessing there. Expo 2020’s theme, ‘Connecting minds, creating the future’, emphasising the invaluable opportunity that this global destination presents for Kenya, its citizens and businesses, is giving a platform to encourage creativity, innovation and collaboration in the areas of Opportunity, Mobility and Sustainability. More than 180 nations,multinational companies, organisations and education institutions will participate in Expo 2020, while 70 per cent of the 25 million visits are expected to be from outside the UAE, making it one of the most globally inclusive in the 166-year history of World Expos. Expo 2020 is the first World Expo in the Middle East, Africa and South Asia region, so we are approaching it from a new perspective, ensuring it is an Expo for all nations. One nation, one pavilion policy ensures that every participating nation has its own pavilion. Our policy supports Kenya to tell its unique story, demonstrating its achievements, knowledge and expertise, as well as the opportunities that exist within the country.This presents an opportunity to showcase how it is strengthening its position as an economic hub in East Africa, including through the USD 14.5bn smart city project Konza Technopolis, an initiative that resonates with the UAE as we also develop smart cities. Kenya will be able to share its expertise in significantly increasing financial inclusion for millions of previously unbanked and underbanked people through the success of its mobile money ecosystem, and creating a family of innovation hubs (iHub) across the country, which epitomise Expo 2020’s goal to encourage and facilitate collaboration that enhances creativity and supports ideas to reach their full potential. The decision to locate country pavilions according to their chosen Expo sub theme, rather than their location on the world map, will enhance Kenya’s ability to not only showcase its achievements but to create meaningful engagement with other participants and visitors.Our deliberate, and unique, strategy is based on Expo 2020’s belief that collaboration and communication between all, with mutual respect, is key to addressing global problems and advancing humanity. African nations are already signing up to participate in Expo 2020. More than one-third of the 29 countries that officially signed contracts for their participation during the International Participants Meeting held in Dubai in October were from Sub-Saharan Africa and the majority of all African nations, have either publicly or privately confirmed their participation. Our social impact and partnership programme Expo Live is already supporting start-ups that have demonstrated a social or environmental impact. During the first two rounds of Expo Live’s flagship initiative, the Innovation Impact Grant Programme, 13 of the 45 grants were made to start-ups that specifically operate in Africa – including two that operate in Kenya. Kenyan start-up Eco Fuels was among the first recipients of the Expo Live grant, for its project harvesting locally grown croton nuts to use as fuel and fertiliser, producing 78 per cent less carbon dioxide emissions while also tackling deforestation. We are also supporting Desolenator, which uses solar power to purify water for thousands of people living along Lake Turkana, in Kenya’s north. Its innovative technology accelerates the process and cuts the environmental impact, producing up to 10 times more clean water a day than traditional desalination processes. As well as a financial grant, the recipients receive business support and exposure to help them expand and potentially take their solutions across the world. They may also have the chance to exhibit at Expo 2020.  Her Excellency Reem Al Hashimy, is UAE Minister of State for International Cooperation and Director General of Dubai Expo 2020 Bureau