As the year 2017 draws to a close, one man, Education CS Fred Matiang’i, has been in the spotlight for his contribution to the calendar of events. Matiang’i, who also doubles as acting Interior CS, has received praises and criticism in equal measure. However, amid the criticism, Matiang’i remains a subject of attention with the Kenya National Union of Teachers describing him as “a bull in a China shop”. Since his appointment to the Cabinet in 2013, Matiang’i has always appeared like a man followed by troubles over his policy decisions. Among the policies that Matiang’i has implemented in the education sector are curbing exam cheating, ensuring 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools, cracking the whip on fraudulent issuing of university degrees and  pushing for curriculum reforms. Among the harshest criticisms thrown at the CS is the question of the integrity and accuracy of the marking process of the 2017 KCSE exams. Two teachers’ unions – Knut and Kuppet – and leaders from the opposition have said the KCSE exams results might have been flawed, following the rushed marking process. “The Education CS should not use the sector as a platform to shine and bring glory to himself. This is a delicate sector of public interest that should be handled with keenness,” Kuppet chairperson Omboko Milemba told the Star soon after the release of the KCSE exams results last month. Last week, some legislators called for the resignation of the CS. New curriculum Matiang’i’s plan to roll out a new education curriculum in January 2018 has also not gone down well with some stakeholders.  Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said the piloting of the curriculum that took place in the second and third term of 2017 in 470 schools was not enough. He warns the January rollout might leave the education system in a crisis. “This kind of curriculum has failed in South Africa, Malaysia and other countries. If it is not properly handled, it is a ticking time bomb, which is just about to explode,” Sossion said in Mombasa last month. However, National Parents’ Association chairperson Nicholas Maiyo says those fighting the CS are cartels who benefitted before the introduction of the reforms in the education sector. “Matiang’i should know that parents have his back and support what he is doing,” Maiyo said. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads’ Association chairman Indimuli Kahi also said radical changes in the sector will bear fruit in future. Interior docket Having been appointed the Interior CS in acting capacity a month to the August 8 polls, opposition, antagonism and discord continued to follow Matiang’i. Among the first things to spark controversy when he was appointed, was the move to ban protests in the CBDs of Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. The protests spearheaded by the opposition sought the removal of some IEBC officials for alleged involvement in the August 8 election irregularities. Matiang’i’s move to withdraw NASA leaders Raila Odinga’s and Kalonzo Musyoka’s security in September under unclear circumstances also faced objections from supporters. The CS was also criticised following alleged killings by police before and after the August and October polls. Political analyst Wesley Simba described Matiang’i as a “key fixer” in the Jubilee administration. “Matiang’i has been quite instrumental to President Uhuru Kenyatta and despite the criticism that surrounds him, he has delivered to his boss and his star will continue shining as long as Jubilee is in power,” Simba said. Click here for the latest political news