NASA's claims on August 8, 2017 presidential poll results is a deliberate effort to create a non-existent reality, IEBC acting chairman Consolata Maina has said. In a statement on Friday, the electoral agency official said it was not the first time the Opposition was making such claims. "Indeed on August 10, NASA presented to the commission figures allegedly obtained from IEBC servers showing that Raila had won." "The commission ably debunked this myth and that remains to be in the public domain," she said. Maina said a cursory of what NASA made public on January 26th reveals a total misunderstanding of how the results system worked in August 8. "The presentation by NASA totally misleads the public on the results pathway and the servers information on the public portal," she said. She said Kenyans should be given factual information that can inform their choices and not wrong information. "It is our hope that the Kenyans will be directed towards factual information to enable them make informed choices. This is the only way we can build strong democratic institutions," she said. Earlier, the Opposition presented a report on the results of the August 8 election, on which Opposition leader Raila Odinga's January 30 swearing-in will be based. NASA lawyer and Siaya senator James Orengo told the media that they have all the details of the poll. "This is it. This is the document that contains results of the election in 2017, in which more than 80 per cent of Kenyans participated," he said, adding only 25 per cent of registered voters participated in the October 26 re-run. The IEBC reported a 38.84 per cent turnout. "In this report, you will find all the details of polling stations including their codes." More on this: NASA releases elections dossier that 'validates' Raila swearing-in The Opposition said Raila got 8.1 million votes in the August vote but the IEBC "cooked" the results in the incumbent's favour. The coalition made this claim when the coalition announced that president Uhuru Kenyatta got 7.9 million votes. Read: NASA claims Raila got 8.1 million votes, met 50% plus one condition Click here for the latest political stories