The Garissa University College terror attack case in which 147 students were killed will resume on January 21. Scores of students were injured during the attack three years ago. When the case was mentioned yesterday, Milimani senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku said the hearing date remain unchanged before trial magistrate Francis Andayi. During the last hearing, a senior police officer tabled photos taken at the institution when students were butchered on April 2, 2015. Frank Anunda, based at Nairobi DCI headquarters, produced 159 photos of victims, four terrorists who were gunned down and that of one of the accused Rashid Charles, a Tanzanian. Anunda told the court two of the dead terrorists were lawyers from Mandera. They were graduates of University of Nairobi. He said the third terrorist was from South Sudan and another was a student in Mandera. Anunda was testifying in a case where Rashid is charged alongside Mohamed Abdikar, Hassan Aden Hassan, Sahal Diriye and Osman Abdi over the terror attack. Led in his evidence by senior state counsel Ducan Ondimu, he said the terrorists accessed the university through the main gate. They killed two security guards before storming Lecturer Room Hall where the students were having morning prayers. Anunda showed the court photos of the four terrorists Killed. They had AK 47 rifles and ammunition. The court was also shown 13 others photos of terrorists pursuing and killing students who fleeing to safety. Another set of photographs showed a second hall known as Tana River where many students managed to escape. The court also heard that Rashid was found by police officers who were rescuing students. He was found hiding under the bed, covered with a mattress. When interrogated, he lied he was a student at the institution and could not tell the police the course he was undertaking . Anunda said the attackers separated the students according to their religion. He got the information from one of the student who was found hiding in a wardrobe. She survived by drinking body lotion. Earlier another senior police officer produced in court four AK 47s, 713 live ammunition and 1,729 spent cartridges used by terrorists.