On Monday January 15, people in the US celebrated the 50th Martin Luther King Jr Memorial Day. It is to be noted that this is the only public holiday in the US that is only observed in the public sector: The private sector continues with its activities as if MLK was never assassinated. That is capitalist America for you. It has never recognised, nor appreciated, the millions of Africans who lost their lives across the Atlantic so that yet another couple of millions would reach the shores of America to lay the foundations for capitalist development in the US. And those who got there, if you have seen the film Twelve Years a Slave, were treated worse than the beasts of burden. Martin Luther King Junior was a Southern baptist minister who, from a very young age of 27, decided that though slavery had been abolished in the US towards the end of the 19th century, that only affected plantation slavery and not social, economic and political slavery. The African-American in the US, like all other Americans, was supposed to live in a nation where “we hold these truths to be self evident: That all people are born equal.” Notice the word “born” and not “permitted by another human being” to share the right of being equal. Yet, all the African-Americans who, after the abolition of slavery escaped to the North to enjoy this “equality”, found themselves only doing so under the patronage of the White capitalist society. In the southern part of the US, where Martin Luther King was born, this mythical equality was loud in its absence in the segregated “everything”. And that is why the young people started the Student Nonviolent Coordination Committee (SNCC); King and his fellow ministers started the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) and Medgar Evers and others the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured Peoples NAACP).  COVERT RACISM IN THE NORTH All these movements and organisations were focussed on one issue: The total liberation of African-Americans and other coloured peoples from political oppression and economic exploitation in capitalist America by, first and foremost, winning the battle of civil rights. That is why the period during which this liberation movement was most vibrant ( 1951-73 ) is called the period of the Civil Rights Movement. The Civil Rights Movement exposed overt racism in the South for what it was (lynching of black people, segregation in schools and social amenities and denial of the vote). The Civil Rights Movement also exposed covert racism in the North for what it was (housing segregation, gerrymandering of electoral districts to deny Black people the power of the vote and economic apartheid of all kinds). Challenging the citadel of White capitalist power with the March on Washington for jobs and freedom on August 28, 1963, attended by a quarter of a million people, King delivered his famous speech “I have a dream.” On November 22, 1963, hardly two months after that famous event, President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Texas.  SYSTEMMATIC ASSASSINATIONS You will remember Kennedy had, in April the same year, introduced a raft of civil rights legislation in the Congress. Men like FBI Director J. Edger Hoover were not amused. King’s head was perhaps already on the line. But others had to fall first. It is to be noted that before King was finally assassinated on April 4, 1968, followed closely by Robert Kennedy on June 6, 1968, (Bobby Kennedy was running for US President and had assumed his late brother’s civil rights mantle), a whole series of fighters for the Black man’s liberation had been systematically assassinated. Notably, NAACP leaders in Florida Harry and Harriette Moore were bombed in their home by members of the Ku Klux Klan in 1951. It was to take 50 years before these criminals were convicted. By that time, they were already dead. Medgar Evers, general secretary of the NAACP, assassinated as he pulled into his driveway on June 12, 1963, by a certain Byron De la Becksmith, a member of the White Citizens Council. It took 30 years for this criminal to be convicted. By that time, the American intelligence service already felt the Civil Rights Movement had been fully checkmated. Malcolm X, of the nation of Islam, assassinated on February 21, 1965, by presumably members of his own faith but people who, in reality, were undercover FBI agents. And finally Fred Hampton, leader of the Black Panther Party, who was assassinated by the police, the Kenyan style, while sleeping in his apartment in Chicago on December 4, 1969.  POLICE PERFECT LYNCHING My nephew, Dr Omondi Nyong’o, took my wife Dorothy and me to a neighbourhood bookshop on Monday night, where Dr King’s memorial was being held by a small community here in San Francisco. A veteran civil rights leader who worked with King, Holman Turner, writer and poet Jeanne Powell and my nephew were the keynote speakers that evening. Recalling the reality of his time, Holman noted that the lynching of Black people, by ignorant and arrogant White bigots, was something that infuriated the Civil Rights activists the most. The trouble, however, is that lynching still continues almost everywhere in the US today — perfected by the police. Racist America, Holman noted, has not changed much. Jeanne Powell, recalling the day Barack Obama addressed an audience in Chicago after his election as the first African-American President, observed how the Rev Jesse Jackson actually wept to hear Obama speak. The tears were really of joy as well as of deep sorrow: How far have we come and where are we likely to go with that victory? Donald Trump has probably answered part of the futility of that victory. My nephew, in his speech, made a very poignant point. He observed that the election of Trump was actually an expression of White racist anger at how “faulty” the democratic process can be to risk bringing real political change in America. To avoid such a tragedy, it would even be justified to sabotage the electoral process itself.   DEATH OF CONSCIENCE In the aftermath of his victory, Trump has liberated White Americans, who previously felt ashamed to appear racist in any way. Now they can come out legitimately and express their real feelings because the President can do so. Dr Omondi made a distinction between “shame” — which can be a shared feeling as a social thing — and “guilt” which is a purely individual feeling. The expansion of liberalism during and after the Civil Rights Movement made a good number of Americans feel “ashamed” of racism, even when as individuals they had never performed any act of racism. That shame is no longer necessary: The President has banished it from the conscience of the nation! A day after that bookshop discussion, my wife and I were taking a walk in the neighbourhood, as we are fond of doing from time to time. All of a sudden, a whole bunch of White youths, crammed in a Volvo station wagon like sardines, came driving fast past us shouting profane words and giving us the one finger sign! We were flabbergasted! This cannot happen in liberal San Francisco, I thought. Rather than drive and go on their way, these youths turned around a block and came back, literally following us to where we were heading, and this time they were even more explicit in their profanity, literally spoiling for some fight. We kept quiet, kept on walking across the next street, and luckily the heavy traffic left them behind us as we took our bus. Welcome to the fading power of liberalism and the fervent re-emergence of racism in capitalist America.