MCAs will secure Sh620 million set aside for their mortgage and car loans without having to surrender logbooks or title deeds as collateral. Governor Mike Sonko last Friday issued an executive order directing county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi to provide mortgage and car loans to the MCAs against their slips. This followed a meeting with the MCAs on Thursday at Rainbow Resort in Ruiru where the ward reps said they are unable to secure the loan because of “stringent terms”. Sh5 million per member Each member is entitled to Sh3 million for mortgage and a Sh2 million car loan. The scheme is provided for in the assembly budget. “The individual members will have to insure loans given to them,” Sonko said. On December 5, the MCAs boycotted a plenary session to protest a requirement that they provide security for loans. Attempts to reach Elachi on whether she would take the governor’s orders were futile. She is, however, under no obligation to obey the orders as the Constitution and other laws stipulate the county assembly and the executive are two distinct institutions. Neither the governor nor the speaker has the powers to instruct either side on what to do. Loans and Mortgages Regulations passed by the previous assembly require members to provide security for the loans. Political pundits say Elachi will have to follow the orders as the county assembly has no financial autonomy and relies on the executive for funds. Populist move? They view the governor’s orders as a populist move to pull the MCAs to his side in the wake of Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe’s resignation. There were reports Jubilee MCAs were planning to impeach the city boss over Igathe’s resignation but they rubbished the claims last week. Sonko also directed Elachi to pay the members a basic salary of Sh165,000 per month, not the Sh144,000 directed by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. He cited last Monday’s High Court ruling that stopped the commission from slashing the MCAs’ salaries until the case is determined. MCAs countrywide, who in total used to earn Sh8 billion per year before it was slashed, filed a case arguing that they were suffering as a result of the reduced package.