EACC detectives have received a report of fresh fraud allegedly engineered
by former and current Tana River county officials. They made the discovery amid a probe into claims the previous administration awarded fictitious tenders. The officers started interrogating 12 officials on Monday over tenders worth hundreds of millions of shillings for Garsen projects which were not implemented. More on this: 12 top Tana River officers under corruption probe On Wednesday, the team of detectives led by Coast regional director Simon Cherpa, received a report of two flagship projects in Kanagoni and Madogo. The documents show the county allocated Sh78 million to the construction of a weighbridge at Kanagoni along Malindi-Garsen highway and the establishment of an ultra-modern market at Madogo in Bura constituency. Payments were wired to the bank accounts of several people but none of the projects exist. The officers of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission have questioned senior officials who were named in the Garsen KWS fence case, following claims of irregular procurement processes. The commission is expected to finish the interrogations and give direction on Thursday. Among those who have been grilled are Fatma Zahra, who was a chief officer in the former governor's office, public works director Tom Chula, procurement director Issa Berhe and several officers from the finance and planning department. The process is taking place in the governor’s boardroom and detectives are reportedly perusing each official's documents before taking their statements. County officials are said to be in a panic. The EACC officers earlier visited the public works office in Hola town and recorded statements from employees. When he took office, governor Dhadho Godhana revealed he inherited a debt of Sh2.1 billion from
his predecessor Hussein Dado. Most of the money was owed to contractors so the governor launched a social audit to establish genuine and false contracts. He formed a team to lead the audit and promised to crack the whip on perpetrators. Reports indicate that the audit report was
presented to the governor before the end of 2017 but its contents are yet to be
made public. More on this: [VIDEO] I inherited Sh2bn debt, says Tana River’s Godhana Also read: Governor Dado should be in jail over Sh725 million loss - Mungatana Click here for the latest political news