Kalenjin elders in Nakuru county yesterday called on drivers using Salgaa-Sachangwan-Mau summit road to observe traffic rules. Speaking outside AGC Sachangwan, after a consultative meeting that brought together elders from the county and neighbouring counties of Baringo, Kericho and Bomet, Josiah Rutto who is Myoot council of elders chairman, said the accidents were caused by carelessness and asked the government to build dual carriage roads and also erect road bumps. Kapkoros council of elders chairman, Samuel Kiragu, hinted that elders from Nandi county were also meeting in a view to contact a tradional ceremony to cleanse the road. The elders ruled out any possibility of relocating the Sachang’wan fire tragedy victim’s mass grave that has been linked to a spate of accidents along the Kibunja- Salgaa stretch. Elders from Nandi however said they were still holding consultations over the myth that three cursed Nandi chiefs who died near Sachangwan is the cause of accidents in the area and issue a statement on the same once an agreement is reached. The meeting was convened by nominated MCA Rachel Maru, who says in the past five years, she has assisted of more than 45 accidents in the area. "We want to categorically announce that the accidents are caused by careless driving but nothing else" he said. Earlier, hundreds of locals and some elders were expecting a traditional kalenjin ceremony to be carried out. The elders ruled out any possibility of relocating the Sachang’wan fire tragedy victim’s mass grave that has been linked to a spate of accidents along the Kibunja- Salgaa stretch. The chairman said that those are just beliefs whose authenticity cannot be verified. Elders from Nandi said they were still holding consultations over the myth that three cursed Nandi chiefs who died near Sachangwan is the cause of accidents in the area and issue a statement on the same once an agreement is reached. The county has continued to face several disasters including Lake Nakuru helicopter crash that saw five people perish. Three bodies were retrieved and two missing to date, fire disasters, drowning amongst others thus need to set up such. The meeting was convened by nominated MCA Rachel Maru, who has been a frequent volunteer to help victims along the stretch. "There have been circulated stories with people associating historical events to the recent accidents. So I called on elders to guide us," she said. Maru says she has assiated casualties of more than forty accidents in five years.    