The National Police Service Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi yesterday defended the agency for shortlisting acting DCI boss George Kinoti and Deputy IG Edward Mbugua as the only ones qualified as interviewees for their position. Four people including Mbugua, Bernard Nguma, Bernard Ombati and Milka Cheptinga had submitted applications for the position of DIG. Read: I did my best as DCI, Muhoro says as Kinoti takes over  Cheptinga, a lawyer, also applied for the DCI director’s job. “The law says one should be a police officer not below the rank of Assistant IG. She might be a very good lawyer, but is not a police officer of the rank of AIG and above,” Kavuludi said. NPSC shortlisted Mbugua and Kinoti as the only candidates for the interviews today. Other applicants did not meet the qualifications as required by the law, Kavuludi said. He said two of the applicants are police and prisons constables. Kavuludi said all applicants from the Administration Police Service job Noor Gabow, Dr Vincent Makokha and Musa Kakawa were invited for the interviews as they all qualified. Mbugua and Kinoti were appointed acting KPS and DCI bosses by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He sacked their predecessors Joel Kitili and Ndegwa Muhoro on January 5. Uhuru also fired former DIG in charge of APS Samuel Arachi and replaced him with former Kenya Police Training College Gabow. Senior AP officers said Uhuru by-passed highly educated and experienced officers within the service to pick Gabow, an “outsider”. “He [Uhuru] should understand that APS is paramilitary in training and operations unlike KPS, which is more of a civilian institution,” said an officer. “The person who can come to APS and understand our operations can only come from the military or be a person who has grown within the service and who has knowledge of the institution. Also read: New top cops start work with many unresolved cases “We are not opposing people coming from outside to lead us, but our operations mainly border control and counter-terrorism are paramilitary and can only be overseen by a person who understands that,” a senior AP officer told the Star. ”We feel discriminated and sidelined. There are more than 5,000 APs with degrees and we expected that one of them would be given the job,” he added. Click here for the latest political news