Former Moyale MP Roba Duba has told off Marsabit governor Mohamud Mohamed for criticising President Uhuru Kenyatta's nomination of Ukur Yattani to the cabinet. Roba chided the governor for dragging local politics into Uhuru's positive gesture to the region. He said the governor should instead strive to work with the government because the President has shown his willingness to support the region. Read: Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko, Munyes and Ukur Yatani The former lawmaker said the gesture by the President to pick Yattani, former governor, should be appreciated by all. “They lied to Marsabit residents that President Uhuru cannot appoint one of their own to a senior position without the governor's consent. Now they are licking their wounds,” Roba said. He noted it is the President's prerogative to chose whoever he deems fit to serve in his cabinet and nobody should expect to be consulted by the President. “We respect his Excellency the president and the powers conferred upon him by the law and thank him most sincerely for nominating Amb Ukur Yatani.” On Thursday, nine Marsabit elected leaders led by the governor opposed Yattani's nomination citing his 'dark' past. The leaders in a statement claimed Yattani's career repeatedly demonstrated 'contempt for rule of law. They said the former county boss thrives on politics of division and exclusion, the cultivation of suspicion, fear and mistrust amongst the communities'. “Such politics is toxic to our national integration and cohesion and appointing Ukur would, therefore, reward his efforts to create ethnic divisions and social disharmony in Marsabit County and beyond,” the leaders said in a statement. “We, the leadership of Marsabit County are of the view that this appointment is tantamount to celebrating impunity and divisive politics.” The leader's threatened legal action to block Yattani's inclusion in the Jubilee's cabinet. They included governor Mahum, area senator Godana Hargura , Canon Naomi Wako (nominated senator), Safia Sheikh Adan (Women Rep, Marsabit County), Dido Rasso (Saku MP), Musa Arbele (Laisamis Constituency), Qalicha Gufu (Moyale),Mathew Loltome (Speaker, Marsabit County Assembly) and Halkano Konso (Majority Leader, Marsabit County Assembly). On January 5, President Uhuru appointed John Munyes, Ukur Yattani and Keriako Tobiko to the Cabinet. The nominations to the posts which are yet to be revealed will be subject to vetting and approval by Parliament. Click here for the latest political news