Football clubs which ply their trade in the Kenya Premier League (KPL) are set to incur additional costs in honouring both home and away matches in the forthcoming season. The clubs save for Tusker FC, who have their own home ground, will have to dig deep in their coffers for travelling costs to honour both their home and away matches as the country’s two main stadia Nyayo and Kasarani will remain unavailable till mid June. The clubs, who initially used to play their home league matches at Nyayo and Kasarani stadia will have to scratch for additional finances to cater for the travelling costs for both home and away matches. AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia, Posta Rangers, Sofapaka, Kariobangi Sharks and Mathare United will have to seek for alternative venues for their home matches at their own cost. The move which compounds their miseries after the reduction of grants from KPL and the withdrawal of SportPesa as sponsors to some clubs. KPL chief executive Officer, Jack Oguda said the affected clubs will bear the costs as the league’s governing body has no an alternative way of providing remedy to the closure of the venues. “As you are aware, Nyayo and Kasarani are closed for renovations and the earliest they can be ready is mid June. Regrettably, Nairobi-based clubs will have to bear the costs of both home and away matches since we have no other choice. I know it’s hard but that’s the situation we are in.” Oguda further revealed that his team was working on the broadcast partners, who had tendered for the rights to air the Premier League matches. “We received tenders in September and we are still whittling the list down. Soon we shall announce our broadcast partner.” The closure of the country’s two main stadia has inconvenienced Nairobi clubs in the past, forcing most teams to host their home league matches at the bumpy Ruaraka and Thika Stadium. The closure was also blamed on the fixture congestion witnessed in the second leg of the 2017 season. Gor recently said their home CAF Champions League matches will be played at the newly refurbished Bukhungu Stadium—meaning the reigning KPL champions will be forced to incur additional costs as opposed to hosting the matches in Nairobi. Sofapaka confirmed Narok Stadium as the venue for their home matches.The development was confirmed by the club’s assistant coach John Baraza. “We have no other option other than playing there. We have huge support from Narok fans and we will be playing our home matches there until our original home ground is opened.”