Starehe MP Charles Njagua aka Jaguar has sued Governor Mike Sonko over his directive banning boda boda riders from Nairobi city centre. Jaguar, in an urgent application filed at the Milimani law court Wednesday, said the decision was reached without any consultation. The county government issued a notice on January 22 warning of hefty fines, arrest and long jail terms for riders found contravening the directive. The government stated in a gazette notice that riders will no longer access the central business district except those offering courier services. "Pursuant to the provisions of the Traffic Act CAP 403 of 2014 of the Laws of the Republic of Kenya, the county government of Nairobi wishes to inform all motorcycle operators ferrying passengers to and from the CBD that such activities have been banned with immediate effect," the notice by acting County Secretary Leboo Morintat read in part. Read: Sonko bans boda bodas from Nairobi CBD The notice also stated: "Any operator and passenger found contravening this law will be arrested for an offence punishable by hefty fines and long jail terms as provided for in the Traffic Act, 2014." The ban was imposed as a measure to curb the rising rates of crime in the CBD. But Jaguar says the move is ill-informed, was unilaterally made, and is also based on irrelevant considerations. "The boda boda ban may result in more harm than good as the operators will be left frustrated and without a source of livelihood and may easily be indicted into the very criminal activities the ban seeks to curb," he argues. On Tuesday, the county impounded several motor vehicles and arrested operators following the ban. The MP says the ban is curtailing the economic rights of many riders who rely on ferrying passengers to and from the CBD. He wants the court to quash the notice by the government. Also sought is an order to compel the county government to release motor vehicles that have so far been impounded all facilitate the immediate release of all the riders arrested following the ban. Click here for the latest political news 