Governor Hassan Joho has nominated 18 individuals for the positions of chief officers in various departments. Mombasa County Assembly has already listed them for vetting. Joho also nominated two others to be vetted for the fourth and fifth member of county assembly service board. Read: Garbage collectors blamed for disease outbreaks in Mombasa The Assembly clerk Salim Juma said chief officers will appear in committee room one on January 22, while board members will present themselves a day later in the same venue. Abdulrahman Mbarak, should he be approved, will be Trade CO while Asha Abdi has been considered for Finance and Economic Planning Department. Tuni Mwakulumbi was nominated for Education. Joho nominated Abdirahim Farah to be Youth and Gender department's CO as well as Jeophita Mwajuma for Energy, Environment and Solid Waste Management. Mwajuma's docket is crucial. She will need to come up with an effective plan to clean the stinking Mombasa. The department's executive Godfrey Nyongesa is overwhelmed and has been unable to tackle waste threat after taking power. His two months stint has been riddled with challengess - impounding of garbage trucks, deaths because of cholera and chikungunya outbreak due to waste pile ups and illegal dumping. Other COs are Francis Kombe (Water), Albert Keno (Transport), Thomas Moyo (Infrastructure), Uzel Mazera (Fisheries) and Justina Mwikya (Devolution and Public Administration). Juliana Cherera has been nominated to be governor's office chief officer while Khamis Kurichwa, Khadija Shikely and Rajab Babu's departments are Culture, Medical Service and Sports respectively. Other COs are Aisha Abubakar (Public Health), Rozina Wasoi (Agriculture and Livestock), Ilhan Abbas (Investments) and Jaffar Mohsen (Housing and Physical Planning). The two county assembly board members, Swabir Abdalla (fourth member) and Lynette Kamadi (fifth member) were selected from a pool of applicants who were interviewed November 6-7. "The successful two nominees are now hereby invited for the vetting exercise by the Assembly's Appointment Committee," Juma said Friday.   Click here for the latest political news 