Disquiet has rocked Jubilee in Western over Cabinet appointments, with Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka denying claims he is behind Water CS Eugene Wamalwa’s woes. Five MPs from Bungoma county have threatened to quit Jubilee if Wamalwa is kicked out in the ongoing Cabinet changes. They are Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), John Waluke (Sirisia), Didymus Barasa (Kimilili), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula). Waluke, however, absolved Lusaka of blame, saying he is not the appointing authority. Read:Waluke demands Mudavadi apology for 'stupidity' against CS Wamalwa Also Read:Organisers apologise to CS Wamalwa over Maragoli fest drama On Tuesday, Lusaka denied he is using his “proximity to power” to wage a political war against the CS. “I have never used my proximity to power to fight anyone for any reason whatsoever,” Lusaka said in a statement to newsrooms. He continued, “I have instead used it to build the capacity of our people and harness the resources of our community. My record can be checked throughout my 28 years of public service, a signature of dedication and humility.” Wamalwa, previously seen as the senior-most Jubilee politician from Western, is staring at a possible sacking from the Cabinet. He is among 13 CSs who did not make it to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s first batch of CS nominees last week. Wamalwa has declined to comment on the matter. However, his close allies have jammed Bungoma and Trans Nzoia social media groups, attacking Uhuru and Lusaka for what appears to be a looming dismissal. Barasa said Western MPs are not begging Uhuru to appoint Wamalwa. “We know how much Wamalwa has sacrificed for Jubilee. He even dissolved New Ford Kenya party to join Jubilee,” he said. He said Jubilee convinced Wamalwa not to vie for Trans Nzoia governor, “only to turn around and dump him in the cold”. Lusaka is widely seen as a right hand man to Deputy President William Ruto while Eugene is believed to be in the Uhuru axis.  Click here for latest political news      