Pain and sorrow: that is the story of the survivors and relatives of the 38 people who died in the Migaa accident at the Salgaa-Sachang’wan black spot on Sunday morning. “I’m lost for words. What did I do to deserve this? Where did I go wrong?” wondered Phoebe Achieng’ amid sobs as she narrated the ordeal to the Star at Nakuru Level 5 Hospital on Monday. The 35-year-old lost her husband and four children in the accident. Read more  : BLOODY DECEMBER: 36 perish in another Salgaa accident on New Year's Eve Her two-month-old and two-year-old babies were pronounced dead on arrival at Nakuru Level 5 Hospital, while her two other sons died on the way to Molo Hospital. Achieng’s husband died in the ICU. Achieng’, a survivor in the horrific crash, said she could not trace one of her sons hours after the accident. She has fractures on her limbs, lower abdomen and chest. The mother of four boys was travelling with her family from Kisumu to Nairobi when the bus they were in rammed into a truck, killing 38 people. “My family and I had travelled to my husband’s maternal home in Kisumu for the Christmas holiday. We had hoped to travel back to Nairobi on Sunday in order to prepare the children for the schools’ opening day on Tuesday,” Achieng said. She continued, “We had boarded the ill-fated bus four hours before it left the Kisumu stage. It took time to get full but finally left at around 11.30pm. After an hour, the driver started speeding. On reaching Total petrol station, a few kilometers to the black spot, the traffic police stopped the bus. The driver stopped and boarded after two minutes. He seemed to have ‘sorted the police’.” Achieng’ said the driver started speeding again, but the passengers shouted at him, saying he should drive at the required speed but the cries fell on deaf ears. He continued driving carelessly, overtaking vehicles finally ramming unto a trailer. Forty-year-old Jecinta Mbinya also narrated the same story of the driver speeding despite of passengers pleading with him to slow down. Also read : The horror of serial crashes on the Sachangwan to Salgaa road Click here for latest political news