The engine behind the controversial inauguration of NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the People’s President and Deputy President is ignited and fuelled by influential individuals within the alliance. NASA CEO Norman Magaya, self-appointed General Miguna Miguna, strategist David Ndii and strategy committee member Koitamet ole Kina are part of the broader team polishing today’s swearing-in ceremony to be held in Uhuru Park, Nairobi. Other architects of the long-awaited event that have been in the public limelight issuing updates are ODM CEO Oduor Ong’wen, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala (ANC), Wiper CEO Jared Siso and Wiper secretary general Judith Sijeny. Despite the alliance declining to unveil the Assumption of Office Committee, the team has been holding frequent meetings and updating the public on the oath-taking plans. Ceo Magaya Magaya — a lawyer — rose to fame when Raila appointed him as CEO of the Cord Secretariat, replacing Eliud Owalo. He was later appointed NASA CEO. He is a law lecturer at the Catholic University of Eastern Africa. Magaya joined lawyers James Orengo, Otiende Amollo, Paul Mwangi, Antony Oluoch, Okong’o Omogeni, Pheroze Nowrojee and Jackson Awele in challenging President Uhuru Kenyatta’s August 8 victory. The dream team represented Raila and Kalonzo at the Supreme Court and successfully had the vote nullified. Magaya yesterday boldly affirmed that the swearing-in ceremony slated for today will be done in accordance with the Assumption of the Office of the President Act. “We are swearing-in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the President of the Republic of Kenya and not the People’s President. As stated before, we have a qualified judge who will undertake this process,” Magaya said during an interview with KTN News. Strategist Ndii Ndii, an economist and NASA strategist, was at one point picked up from a hotel in Diani in Kwale by officials from the Flying Squad, leading to protests on social media, with the majority of his supporters claiming he was arrested and detained for spearheading Raila’s swearing-in ceremony. He has a PhD from Oxford University and holds doctorate and master’s degrees in Economics from the same institution. He also has a master’s and bachelor’s degrees from the University of Nairobi. General Miguna The former Nairobi governor candidate has selfishly defended Raila by maintaining that he won the August 8 election and his swearing-in would be constitutional. The lawyer, who recently branded himself the National Resistance Movement general, urged NASA supporters to boycott Haco Tiger Industries products, saying the company had a hand in bungling the annulled August 8 presidential election. Ong’wen Ong’wen is a political strategist and Raila’s long-time adviser. He clinched the top position in ODM after former Kipkelion MP Magerer Lang’at was ousted from the party after wrangles emerged between him and several officials. “We will open with the National Anthem, followed by prayers led by various religious leaders. Then there will be a formal declaration of the congregation gathered,” he said of the event recently. “The fourth item will be adoption of the agenda. The fifth item will be the inauguration of the leadership and the sixth will be the address by the leaders of the assembly.” Raila was to be sworn in on December 12, but the event was put off to the dismay of NASA supporters. Chief Justice David Maraga presided over the swearing-in of Uhuru on November 28 in accordance with Article 141 of the Constitution. Senator Malala Malala was has been mobilising NASA parliamentarians to sign up an affidavit recognising Raila as the duly elected People’s President and backing the National Constituent Assembly “We’ve given them up to Tuesday evening to make sure they sign. Then on Wednesday, we will have a list of shame,” he said. He recently gave Raila a Bible as a birthday gift. Click here for the latest political news