Jubilee leaders in Busia have thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for nominating former Budalangi MP Ababu Namwamba as a Foreign Affairs chief administrative secretary. The group said that they believe Ababu is up to the task, further asking him to work closely with Governor Sospeter Ojaamong' regardless of their divergent political views. Read: Chief Administrative Secretaries: Was Uhuru rewarding 2017 election backers? Bunyala Central MCA Felix Omanyi, who is also the Busia Minority Leader, however, urged the president to consider appointing two or three more politicians from the region in various capacities. "As much as we appreciate the appointment of our very own Namwamba, Rashid Echesa from Mumias, and Eugene Wamalwa, we need more since the government is big." "Let the president consider and give us two-three more appointments from this region," Omanyi said. He urged all leaders in Western region to go back to the drawing board and work in unity with Uhuru’s Cabinet nominees to develop the region. They cautioned locals against politicising the matter asking them to instead appreciate the little offered to them as a county. The leaders slammed critics who are dismissing Ababu's position. Locals, in various social media groups, criticised the former legislators' position equating it to an office messenger with "imaginary powers". "And who says office messenger is not a job? Try and see if you can get it, even as a cleaner in any ministry,"John Wandera, a user, partially read. David Ogea, Busia JP organising secretary, said the nomination is an eye-opener. He called upon all leaders to work with the government and ensure that the youth from the county secure employment. Labour Party chairman William Maende said that they partied all night after news of Ababu’s appointment, saying they are happy that Uhuru has faith in their leader. "Ababu is a performer. He traversed the county during campaigns drumming up support for Jubilee so he deserves it." "Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma also worked tirelessly and we are optimistic that the president has secured something for him to," he added. On the opposition NASA's planned swearing in ceremony slated for January 30, the leaders termed the move as an endless drama adding that time for politics is over. "Election is an event that happens and ends, we can only have one president as per the constitution," they said. Read: Pokots laud Uhuru for proposing ex-Governor Kachapin as Education CAS Click here for the latest political stories    