Parliament yesterday started the process of reconstituting the Salaries and Remuneration Commission against the backdrop of a vicious fight-back by lawmakers over lower perks. The Sarah Serem-led commission’s term ended last December. Now the Parliamentary Service Commission - the agency that employs MPs - and the Senate have invited applications from qualified Kenyans amid the salary row with the SRC. Angered by the SRC’s decision to reduce their princely salaries and allowances, MPs have vowed to pick ‘friendlier’ representatives at the helm of theagency in a bid to influence their higher pay. They have previously accused the Serem-chaired commission of unfairly scrapping their Sh5 million car grant, Sh5,000 per committee sitting and House plenary allowances. The SRC also reduced their salaries from Sh710,000 to Sh621,250. The PSC as one of the 13 nominating agencies has one slot in the SRC, while the Senate is also required under Article 230 of the Constitution to nominate one person to represent the 47 county governments. Those interested have until February 2 to submit their applications to Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye and the secretary to the Parliamentary Service Commission. Thereafter, interviews will be conducted and both the Senate and PSC will pick two nominees each and forward the names to the CS Public Service for onward transmission to the President. The President will then pick one from each for appointment as SRC commissioners. Article 230 of the Constitution provides the SRC should consist of a chairperson, one person each nominated by the Parliamentary Service Commission, Public Service Commission, Judicial Service Commission, National Police Service Commission, Teachers Service Commission the Defence Council and the Senate on behalf of the county governments. Others are one person each nominated by an umbrella agency representing trade unions, an umbrella body representing employers and a joint forum of professional bodies, the Cabinet Secretary for Treasury and AG and CS for Public Service. Read:SRC nominee approved by Parliament          