In countries with natural resources
like oil or gas, the government often implements local content policies in efforts to create jobs, spur local industries and
tame ‘Dutch Disease’. These kinds of policies aim at promoting a system where
international companies work with locals or ‘buying local’ products or services.
The Local Content Bill 2016 is a great start. Local content policies have their origins
in the writings which outlined the ‘Infant Industry Argument’, an argument that
was first articulated in the 1790s. Local content is a topical issue, and has
become a hot issue in the natural resource industry in general, and oil and gas
in particular. In developing countries like Kenya, local
enterprises are the drivers of economic activity and development. Since the
discovery of commercially viable quantities of oil in Kenya, efforts have been
made to promote inclusivity and local participation in this emerging sector,
and local content as a whole. The Local Content Bill policies aim towards
maximization of the national value creation by means of the oil and gas value
chain through employment, value addition, technology transfer and the acquisition
of knowledge. The pre-requisites for enhancing local content are the rule of
law, skilled workforce, and investment-friendly atmosphere. However, on their
own, these policies are not a silver bullet. Two issues come to mind; First, skills gap are typically the most
prevalent barrier to meeting local content requirements. These gaps creates a
void which is bridged through various technical assistance and training
initiatives. Oil and gas exploration companies have noted that local suppliers
who bid for procurement opportunities often fall short of meeting industry
requirements in areas such as information technology, systems management,
environment, health and safety standards. This is not surprising given that
Kenya is a new entrant in the upstream sector. I would argue that for the
technical initiatives to be sustainable in the long term, the government must
take the lead. One such program is Kenya Petroleum
Technical Support Project (KEPTAP), a USD 50M credit facility from the World
Bank whose aim is to strengthen the
capacity of the country to manage its petroleum sector and create wealth for
sustainable development. It is also worth noting that Kenya Pipeline
Company (KPC) has taken the initiative to bridge this gap through their
Morendat Oil and Gas Training Institute. Secondly, the implementation of the local
content regulation will promote the growth of the small and medium-sized
enterprises across the value chain.  The
procurement of local goods and services is very important as it establishes a
multiplier for local economic development through contribution to employment,
skills strengthening, supplier and local enterprise development. Oil and gas exploration companies expend up
to 80 per cent of their investments on products and costs that are supplied
from without. Thus, indirect employment in the sector accounts for a large
proportion of total employment and value addition. The opportunities available however have
not been sufficiently usurped by SMEs due to the information gap on how to create
business partnerships, requirements of the industry and actors in the industry.
This is serious challenge given a National Economic Survey report by the
Central Bank of Kenya indicated that SMEs constitute 98 percent of all business
in Kenya and creates over 80 percent of jobs In conclusion, if these regulations are
implemented effectively, they can have great impact on the Kenyan  economy. For example, since Brazil, a giant in
the offshore oil industry, passed its local content rules, an estimated 875,000
jobs have been created, and the value of domestic purchases has reached USD 14
Billion (Kshs.1.4 Trillion). With the envisaged creation of the Local
Content Training and Development Fund, the bill is very futuristic in ensuring
that the local content requirements will be implemented in full. Joe
Watson Gakuo is the Chief Executive Officer at Upstream Oil & Gas Ltd.