Capital Markets Authority and Nairobi Securities Exchange have been urged to diversify products offered on the Nairobi bourse to increase the country’s market capitalisation. This will increase investor sentiment both locally and domestically, says the Barclays Africa Group Financial Markets Index. The report shows that Kenya’s total outstanding bonds and market capitalisation stood at $28 billion (Sh2.88 trillion) in 2017 while pensions and insurance funds assets reached $13 billion (Sh1.34 trillion). Barclays MD and head of markets for Africa George Asante said there was need for industry players to move from fixed income and equities to the derivatives market which are products that have a value dependent on underlying assets such as currency, security or a commodity. “Financial markets in Kenya are dominated by cash transactions; everything about tradable products is about the cash instrument,” he said. In the Kenyan capital market an investor can carry out a bond, equity and money market cash transactions. “Beyond that, we have not really seen much. The derivative market is non-existent and therefore other products have not been able to build up from the cash market,” he said. Last year, CMA took major strides in a bid to diversify products offered at the NSE. This is part of implementing its 10-year Master Plan (2014-2023) by crafting new regulations to facilitate development of new products in a bid to diversify Kenya’s capital markets. Some of the products launched last year include the Exchange Traded Funds and government’s retail infrastructure bond, M-Akiba. The authority also approved rules for the listing and trading of global depository notes and receipts. NSE chief executive officer Geoffrey Odundo said plans were currently underway to introduce the derivatives market at the exchange before the end of the year. “We have actually been working closely with CMA and the Central Bank of Kenya to bring to life the derivatives market this year,” he added. Asante also raised an issue the country’s market liquidity. He said that despite Kenya having one of the deepest exchange rate markets on the continent, liquidity is significantly low. This, he said was stunting the development of new products. He said that the Nairobi bourse also needed to bring in large institutions with a strong capital base citing that NSE is currently driven by brokerage. “What is lacking there and not deepening liquidity for the entire market is the lack of market makers to augment the strong brokerage culture,” Asante said. Kenya is ranked fifth out of 17 African stock markets scoring the highest in East Africa. The rank was based on Kenya’s strong contract enforcement policies, market depth as well as the capacity of local investors.