Luhya supremacy battles between NASA and Jubilee politicians are expected to dominate the burial on Saturday of Yvonne Wamalwa, widow of the VP Kijana Wamalwa. She will be buried in Milimani Estate, Trans Nzoia county. She died on Friday in Nanyuki. Family spokesperson Matthews Wamalwa yesterday told the Star preparations were in top gear so Kenyans can pay their last respects. Political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche told the Star, however, the funeral will offer a platform for the region’s politicians to outdo each other. “Just as has been the norm with past events held in memory of the late VP Wamalwa, I foresee a showdown between Luhya politicians allied to NASA and those allied to Jubilee,” he said. Already, politicians allied to Jubilee have been meeting in Nairobi to plan for the day. They are CS Eugene Wamalwa, who is a brother-in-law of the deceased, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Ababu Namwamba, former Cabinet minister Musikari Kombo and former Kwanza MP Noah Wekesa. Wanjekeche said Eugene might likely want to take revenge for the incident in which he was chased from the Maragoli Festival in December. The event was attended by NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi. Wamalwa later led other Jubilee leaders from the Mulembe Nation in castigating Mudavadi for allegedly planning the incident. NO POLITICS AT FUNERAL Kombo is chairing the funeral committee. Yesterday, he told the Star on the phone that he does not expect politicians to play politics at the funeral. “We will bury the wife of a former Vice President, a career civil servant. We expect every politician to be dignified in his speech and behaviour,” he said. Politicians must allow the family to mourn, he said. Anybody bringing politics during the funeral will be completely out of tune, the former Webuye MP said. He said a requiem mass will be conducted at the Consolata Shrine, Nairobi, tomorrow. DIED A POOR WOMAN Already, Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa (Ford-Kenya) caused a storm when he said Jubilee was to blame for Yvonne’s tribulations before her death. He issued a statement early in the week, blaming the Jubilee administration for firing Yvonne, who had been the Kenyan Ambassador to Australia. He said Yvonne died a poor woman because of Jubilee frustrations. But Kombo, who was also the best man during Yvonne and Kijana’s wedding, dismissed the Kiminini MP’s statement as “utter garbage”. “Yvonne has died while being taken care of properly by the Foreign Affairs ministry. At no point was she fired by the Jubilee administration. She was a senior civil servant at the time she died,” he said. Chris had accused Jubilee of deceiving the public that the late VP’s wife was still in office when she died. “President Mwai Kibaki appointed our departed sister as an ambassador. But when Jubilee took over, she was sacked. Yvonne died a poor woman,” he said. “Because of her poor status, she could not afford medication. That’s why she decided to go and stay with her sister in Nanyuki.”The previous events in honour of the late VP Kijana have been marred by supremacy battles, which sometimes turned violent. Wanjekeche says the upcoming ceremony could also showcase rivalries He said this happens because since VP Wamalwa died, Luhya politicians have always fought to replace him as the community’s supremo — a battle he says has yet to be settled or won. “Every successful Luhya politician has always wanted to associate themselves with the success of the late VP. That’s why such occasions are characterised by all manner of drama,” he said. Click here for the latest political stories