Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has been caught up in a row over the violent eviction of hawkers in Eldoret. Video clips showing forced evictions and destruction of property outraged leaders and residents. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri accused Mandago of discriminating against the Kikuyu community, many of whom are hawkers. They said on Sunday the hawkers’ problem might cause ethnic animosity if left unchecked. Kinyanjui said some Eldoret residents now live in fear because of the violence meted out to hawkers. Ngunjiri wants the NCIC to probe Uasin Gishu county officials for ethnic profiling. County officials dismissed claims of harassment and said the hawkers refused to relocate to a new market built for them. Mandago’s spokesman Silas Tarus and his security adviser Paul Rutto yesterday denied the county is targetting Kikuyu hawkers. Rutto said no excessive force was used, “as the operation was only meant to restore order”. Mandago is expected to meet local leaders and county officials over the evictions, sources told the Star. 12 traders injured More than 12 hawkers were injured last week after they were attacked by county askaris and AP officers. Three had gunshot wounds. Five victims were rushed to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in critical condition. The small-scale traders, who included vegetable vendors and M-Pesa attendants, said they lost goods worth more than Sh300,000. Some traders have said they will lodge complaints with Ipoa. Trader Kimani Wanjohi said they have been harassed for a long time but it got worse on Friday last week. He said the county leadership has refused to engage in dialogue with them to get an amicable solution. But Tarus said the operation by security teams was “a complex issue” that involved the county and state agencies. “We have a major security problem in Eldoret that must be understood, instead of some individuals seeking to blow up nonexistent issues,” he said.  WEAPONS, BHANG SEIZED Criminals masquerade as hawkers and some have taken over some streets where they mug residents and pick their pockets, Tarus said. Rutto said during the operation, askaris seized weapons and marijuana and arrested more than 50 suspected criminals. He said so-called hawkers had refused to obey county regulations and turned violent. Human rights activists, led by Nick Omito and John Njenga, said there was no justification for the brutal attack on hawkers. They said goods were destroyed without a good reason and said the crackdown was inhumane.  Activists to file suit “We will sue the county and police for injuring more than 12 people and destroying goods belonging to many other residents during evictions,” Omito, the executive director of the Centre for Human Rights and Mediation, said. He said they will ensure the county ends frequent violation of traders’ rights. He urged victims of police harassment to report to their Eldoret office before they file a suit against the county administration. “We have enough evidence to sustain the case to its conclusion and ensure justice is served,” Omito said.