Evidence of collusion between police and criminal gangs has emerged after guns missing from Kiambu police station were found in a senior officer’s house. The man, who has gone into hiding, is a senior sergeant attached to the Kiambu police station. Five pistols kept in a safe, intended to be exhibits in criminal prosecutions, appear to have been handed to police officers  on duty. Such guns are normally under lock and key and are not given to police. Two pistols and 95 bullets were recovered from the house and office of the senior sergeant. He is accused of renting his guns to criminals. Officers from the Special Crime Prevention Unit have been hunting for the cop after a gun issued to him was recovered from two criminals shot dead in a robbery in Industrial Area on Friday last week. On Tuesday night, Kiambu police commander Adiel Nyange and DCI chief Amos Teben broke into the officer’s house at Kiambu police station. They found the two pistols, which had been reported stolen. bullet proof vest They also found a bulletproof vest, two pistol magazines and five bullets. The items don’t appear in any police records at the station and their source is being investigated. Ninety bullets and a Ceska pistol magazine were found in the cop’s office. They don’t appear in the inventory of weapons at the station. spent catridges A report by police chiefs to their seniors in Nairobi stated that some spent cartridges had also been found. Officers were investigating possibilities that the weapons recovered could have been used in a robbery. “The officer has since gone underground. He is believed to be armed with the missing firearm,” the report reads in part. Investigations have been widened to include an audit of the station’s firearm records. There is strong suspicision the cop on the run was renting guns to criminals. But police spokesman Owino Wahongo downplayed claims that police were colluding with criminals. “We cannot entertain any criminals among police. Any officer giving guns to criminals knows the consequences,” Owino said. eye of the storm In Nairobi, police chief Japheth Koome, in brief to officers on Tuesday hinted at possible collusion between police and criminal gangs. Koome is in the eye of a storm for the upsurge in violent robberies and muggings. “Police know all criminals in this city, I don’t understand why they can’t arrest them,”Koome told the Star via a police radio phone  