Over seven years working as a CEO and leadership coach, I have gained invaluable lessons into what makes a phenomenal leader. 2017 was for me a journey that culminated in polishing my expertise both through success and failures. Here are six fundamental lessons I learnt as a CEO and how I plan use them to better myself in 2018. 1. Be open to change Change has been said to be constant and sure enough it is. In 2017, I observed that some changes I implemented did not directly translate into the results I had expected and anticipated. On the flip side, I realized that I was rigid in terms of taking a new idea on board when in essence it would have had a positive impact on the organization. In 2018, I have become more intentional about accepting change even when it seems to be outside of the scope of the organizational mandate. Additionally, I plan to be more open-minded in terms of receiving new ideas especially when they appear unconventional. 2. Success is built upon a vision, strategy and commitment The process of attaining success cannot be done haphazardly. It is a thorough process that should involve a clear vision, a strategy of attaining the vision and an unrelenting commitment to the vision. Last year I came to understand that as a CEO, it is not enough to have a vision; you also need a comprehensive well detailed strategy of attaining that vision. Also, my commitment to the vision and strategy saw me attain new levels of success at a career and personal level. 3. You must have a strong and driven team 2017 reiterated that in my position as a leader, I am required to energize the team and constantly keep them motivated. In my career, I have been privileged for the most part to work with a team of diverse members who all have different personalities. In 2018, I am more prepared to take up more team members who possess a good deal of technical and ideal soft skills that will contribute towards obtaining the organizational goal. 4. Remain focused; keep your eye on the prize As a HR professional in a reputable recruitment firm, I have learnt that there are a lot of distractions in the world. There is need to remain focused. I work in a firm that offers services tailor made for employers and job seekers, I have noted that I need to exhaust all possible opportunities in my field. In 2018, there is no room to stray or remain mediocre. 5. Become more technologically savvy The world is becoming more and more digitalized. With competition increasing every other day, the importance of being adept with new technology cannot be over-stated. One of the crucial things I needed to learn in digitization was the intricacies of digital marketing and technological tools such as Google analytics and Search Engine Optimization. 6. Encourage feedback mechanisms As a CEO you need to encourage feedback. I learned that this is how you make informed decisions that not only affect you as a leader but your team members, your clients and ultimately your organization. In 2018, I have been purposeful about encouraging my team to offer me feedback that is bent on bettering the organization. Draw personal lessons and become a resourceful and successful CEO. Perminus Wainaina is CEO and Managing Partner at Corporate Staffing Services Ltd, a HR firm based in Westlands, Nairobi.  Over seven years working as a CEO and leadership coach, I have gained invaluable lessons into what makes a phenomenal leader. 2017 was for me a journey that culminated in polishing my expertise both through success and failures. Here are six fundamental lessons I learnt as a CEO and how I plan use them to better myself in 2018. 1. Be open to change Change has been said to be constant and sure enough it is. In 2017, I observed that some changes I implemented did not directly translate into the results I had expected and anticipated. On the flip side, I realized that I was rigid in terms of taking a new idea on board when in essence it would have had a positive impact on the organization. In 2018, I have become more intentional about accepting change even when it seems to be outside of the scope of the organizational mandate. Additionally, I plan to be more open-minded in terms of receiving new ideas especially when they appear unconventional. 2. Success is built upon a vision, strategy and commitment The process of attaining success cannot be done haphazardly. It is a thorough process that should involve a clear vision, a strategy of attaining the vision and an unrelenting commitment to the vision. Last year I came to understand that as a CEO, it is not enough to have a vision; you also need a comprehensive well detailed strategy of attaining that vision. Also, my commitment to the vision and strategy saw me attain new levels of success at a career and personal level. 3. You must have a strong and driven team 2017 reiterated that in my position as a leader, I am required to energize the team and constantly keep them motivated. In my career, I have been privileged for the most part to work with a team of diverse members who all have different personalities. In 2018, I am more prepared to take up more team members who possess a good deal of technical and ideal soft skills that will contribute towards obtaining the organizational goal. 4. Remain focused; keep your eye on the prize As a HR professional in a reputable recruitment firm, I have learnt that there are a lot of distractions in the world. There is need to remain focused. I work in a firm that offers services tailor made for employers and job seekers, I have noted that I need to exhaust all possible opportunities in my field. In 2018, there is no room to stray or remain mediocre. 5. Become more technologically savvy The world is becoming more and more digitalized. With competition increasing every other day, the importance of being adept with new technology cannot be over-stated. One of the crucial things I needed to learn in digitization was the intricacies of digital marketing and technological tools such as Google analytics and Search Engine Optimization. 6. Encourage feedback mechanisms As a CEO you need to encourage feedback. I learned that this is how you make informed decisions that not only affect you as a leader but your team members, your clients and ultimately your organization. In 2018, I have been purposeful about encouraging my team to offer me feedback that is bent on bettering the organization. Draw personal lessons and become a resourceful and successful CEO. Perminus Wainaina is CEO and Managing Partner at Corporate Staffing Services Ltd, a HR firm based in Westlands, Nairobi.  