MPs in the three watchdog committees in the National Assembly are divided over a proposal from the DPP’s office to have representatives of the office and the EACC included in them. The proposal has been in place since the 11th Parliament but has not been discussed extensively. It seeks to have the office of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and that of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission embed representatives in the parliamentary committees. Some MPs say this will benefit the committees which will have more expertise in investigations. Others say it is tantamount to interference from the Executive. Read: No confidence vote: Alfred Keter ousted as Labour committee chair Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir says having representatives from the DPP’s office in committees makes their work easier and investigative reports more credible. But he cautioned that if not well implemented, the move will reduce the autonomy of Parliament. “This will give Parliament more teeth. However, the DPP should come in as an invited guest and not necessarily part of Parliament,” Nassir said on Wednesday. He is the chairman of the Public Investments Committee. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa told the MPs some of their recommendations are ignored by the DPP, who orders a fresh probe when they recommend someone for prosecution. “This makes our work useless. We need to come up with a framework where we can work together,” the MP said. Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito said having the DPP send his representatives to parliamentary committees is suspect. He said Parliament may lose its autonomy. “We don’t want to mix. We don’t want people to come and check what we are doing. The DPP should sit in his office and wait for reports from us. “Committees belong to Parliament. Let him stay in his office. Everybody should do their work,” Kizito said. Nassir said representatives from the DPP, EACC and DCI sitting in parliamentary committees would not mean the Executive will be interfering. South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi, the chairman of the Special Funds Accounts Committee, said parliamentary committees will be better placed to come up with water-tight evidence to prosecute. “Once we come up with audit reports and realise somebody is culpable for the loss of public funds, our evidence from the committee is not enough to prosecute that person,” Murungi said. Click here for the latest political news