The European Union has called for enhanced dialogue to end conflicts between the government and Sengwer community over ongoing eviction in Embobut forest. The sengwer community was evicted from the forest in 2014 but started resettling in the water tower in 2017. According to Amnesty International, at least 50 huts belonging to the indigenous community have been torched in the ongoing eviction exercise. Read: State trying to wipe us out, say Sengwer group EU Head of delegation to Kenya Stefano Dejak said the union is planning to fund conservation of Cherangany and Mount Elgon water towers, on which Embobut forest is included. Dejak said rights of indigenous communities should be respected in the ongoing evictions. He said at meeting in Eldoret on Wednesday that the eviction is a Kenyan issue, but must be handled with dignity. “EU strongly supports the conservation of water towers. The eviction going on is a Kenyan issue and we don’t tell Kenyan authorities what to do,” Dejak said. The ambassador said the world closely monitoring the eviction, urging the state to set an example in observation of human rights. Sengwer locals claimed that they have been harassed by rangers effecting the eviction. They called on EU to suspend the funding until the eviction is stopped. A community member Paul Kiptuga said the state has deployed a contingent of security agencies to violently remove the indigenous community from the forest. “My home was burnt down and all my property was destroyed by KFS rangers. The government is evicting the community just because it is targeting funds from the EU,” he claimed. He said the forest is the community’s ancestral land, noting the community will not move out. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said the Sh410,000 compensation awarded to each of the 2,700 Embobut forest evictees in 2014 was inadequate to enable the evictees to purchase land to build houses. “There is a need for structured dialogue. We no longer want to read in the media that people are suffering in Embobut and we as leaders are not aware,” Tolgos said. Also read: KFS, EU clash over indigenous communities' return to forests Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Wilber Otichilo [Vihiga] and Kisumu deputy governor Mathews Owili said there is need to conserve the forest, calling on KFS to enhance dialogue to foster relations with the community. Environment CS Judy Wakhungu who presided over the meeting said she had no powers to stop the evictions. Wakhungu said the eviction is a security issue, arguing that the ministry of interior was in a better position to suspend the exercise. The CS said a county dialogue forums will be formed to oversee the conservation of the water towers. Marakwet East deputy county commission Stephen Sangolo said security agencies are currently undertaking an operation to flush out armed bandits hiding in the forest, remarks opposed by community members. Sangolo said some illegal settlers are cultivating sections of the forest.   Click here for the latest political news 