Water CS Eugene Wamalwa has demanded NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi apologise for the JP official’s heckling at the Maragoli Cultural Festival. Wamalwa was forced to flee when youth turned rowdy in Mbale on December 26. His bodyguard shot in the air as he fled the scene. The CS has received a written apology from Maragoli elders and the organisers of the event. Wamalwa on Monday spoke to the press at St Cecilia Misikhu Girls in Webuye West during the 9th Chris Cup Football Tournament. Elgon Express from Webuye West won the title after beating Chelekei from Kimilili. “I was shocked over what happened in Vihiga. A Bukusu delegation from Bungoma and Trans Nzoia had gone to celebrate with fellow Luhyas at the cultural festival that has been held for the past 38 years,” the CS said. Wamalwa said it was his first time he attended the event, which celebrates culture, unity and diversity. “What happened is regrettable and uncalled for. I received an apology from Maragoli elders and the organisers of the event,” he said. Wamalwa said it was wrong for some leaders to hijack the event and turn it into a NASA affair. He said they showed Bukusus were unwelcome. “As much as I have receive an apology, I don’t accept ANC leader Mudavadi’s position in a TV interview on what happened,” he said. Wamalwa wants Mudavadi to apologise to him and the Bukusu community. “I have had a lot of respect for him since 2013 when I supported him to run for President. He was like an elder brother, and he knows that well,” he said. Wamalwa said Bukusus will welcome Mudavadi when he visits but will never support him. The CS said he will be back in the political fray in 2022, and Bukusus will not support Mudavadi. “Cotu boss Francis Atwoli crowned him Luhya spokesman, but we don’t want him,” Wamalwa said. “When the late Masinde Muliro declared his candidature for presidency in 1991, Cyrus Jirongo, Musalia and Moses Wetang’ula, who were in Kanu, didn’t support him. “Neither did they support my late brother Kijana Wamalwa in 1997,” he said.