The Sh90 maize flour could be available until mid this month as retailers still have large stock to clear. The subsidy programme, which brought a two-kilogramme maize flour to Sh90, officially ended on December 31. However, large retailers, including supermarkets in Nairobi, informed the Star they still have large stock to clear before prices rise. A spotcheck at Naivas and Uchumi supermarkets shows maize flour is still retailing at the subsidised price. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Willy Bett said Kenyans should not worry because there is enough maize in the market. “Maize is plenty in the country now, making the import subsidy scheme unnecessary,” Bett said in Nairobi. However, the ministry says farmers in the fertile North Rift region will harvest less maize this year because of the armyworm invasion and erratic weather. The pests have destroyed several hectares of the crop in Baringo, Kericho, Kitale, Bungoma, Nandi, Embu, Kakamega, Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Busia and Nakuru counties. The ministry estimates farmers will harvest 32 million 90kg bags, down from 37.1 million bags, a 20 per cent drop in maize yield. minimal increase Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe says the price of the packed flour is likely to rise to a maximum Sh120 once the subsidised stock is exhausted. “But the price increase should be very minimal,” he said. Lesiyampe said the subsidy programme was extended until end of December to ensure there is enough maize in the Strategic Grain Reserve, and this has so far been achieved. He said the National Cereals and Produce Board bought about a million bags of maize from the farmers at the cost of Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. In October, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government will set aside Sh6 billion to buy maize from farmers at the cost of Sh3,200. Titus Maiyo, the NCPB spokesperson, said delivery of maize to the depots has picked up in the recent past. “We have so far been able to buy 945,000 bags of 90kg from the farmers, and with the reduction of the short rains in the last few weeks, farmers have increased deliveries to the depots,” Maiyo said recently. sufficient food Anthony Kioko, the Cereal Growers Association CEO, said the government and the private sector should ensure in the future the country has sufficient food sourced locally, not from imports. The maize subsidy was introduced six months ago when the price of a two kilogramme of packet maize flour hit Sh180.  