The second selection of Form One slots will be conducted on Friday. The drive will involve school heads seeking to fill slots of students selected to join various institutions, but who failed to report. In a statement on Saturday, Education PS Belio Kipsang said students who will be selected during the replacement drive will be expected to report to school by January 23. “Consequently, the replacement exercise will be carried out on January 19 and not on January 17 as communicated earlier by the ministry,” the letter reads. Read: Ministry extends form one admission deadline Speaking to the Star, National Parents’ Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo urged the government to ensure strict measures in the process to prevent parents’ extortion by rogue school heads. “We know some teachers might use this opportunity to make money, because the exercise does not follow the same criteria as the first selection. But if the process is well-managed, it will help those having a problem to secure schools of choice,” he said. However, Kenya Secondary Schools Head’ Association chairperson Kahi Indimuli dismissed the possibility of extortion, saying the shortlisting will be purely on merit. Meanwhile, the government has extended the reporting date of Form One students by four days. The reporting was to end last Friday. It has been extended to Wednesday. Kipsang said the decision was informed by the contrast in the number of students who have reported to schools in different regions. “The Cabinet Secretary has authorised the extension of the reporting deadline from January 12 to January 17,” a statement signed by the PS reads. On Friday, acting Education CS Fred Matiang’i blamed the low turnout of the number of students who have reported in the coastal region to the drug menace. only 754 reported The CS said low numbers of Form One enrolment at the Coast are alarming. He cited Kwale county, which has a Form One student capacity of 5,568, but only 754 have reported, which is only 13.4 per cent. At Kwale High School, which has a Form One capacity of 240 students, only 55 have reported, representing 22.92 per cent. At Malindi High School, which has a capacity of 240, only 57 have reported, or 24 per cent. The CS urged county education officials on the ground to establish the cause of the low enrolment and look for solutions. “The Constitution and the Basic Education Act provide for compulsory basic education,” Matiang’i said. Click here for the latest political news