Most companies will have to part with hefty investments on technology, advancements in 2018 if they aim to remain relevant, technology firm Cisco has said.  According to the firms digital acceleration managing director for European, Middle East, Africa and Russia region Gordon Thomson, this is the only assurance of increasing value as digital evolution keeps unfolding. Thomson outlined top five tech trends to watch and invest in 2018. Artificial intelligence and machine learning: In 2018, more firms will be required to put their data to work since they collect more data than a human brain could possibly process in a lifetime. By adapting Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, banks will be able to fix issues with their mobile apps before users call in, Hospitals can track if nurses and doctors are maintaining the right levels of cleanliness, and museums can see which attractions people visit most frequently. This trend is likely to increase rapidly in 2018 as firms move towards making smart decisions. Intent innovations: Thomson said that for the last 30 years, networks have worked in much the same way. "You needed an IT army to manage network settings manually, but no more. This is the year we’re moving away from manual, and we’re shifting to intent," he said. 2017 saw the introduction of driverless cars, but before this, a car needed a driver to move from one point to another. Comparing the two scenarios, the self-driving car is an intent-based innovation. You tell it where to go, and it gets there by itself. Automation of virtual assistant: Cisco notes that in 2018, virtual assistants will be smart enough to figure out what you need before you tell them. For instance, you walk into a smart meeting room big enough for six people. The room can tell from your phone that you’ve arrived. Behind the scenes, the video conference tool talks to your calendar, sees you have a meeting in two minutes, and starts the call on time. The room also notices that you’re the only one here, so it raises the temperature by a few degrees to keep you comfortable. That’s automation of virtual assistance. Investing in cloud: With increased Cyber attacks, more firms will be required to save their data and applications to the cloud. Cisco forecast an increase in public cloud pick up from Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. This will ensure security and effective management of customer and company data. Embedding Security in everything: “In 2018, you’ll be able to embed security in everything you do. You can watch how people or things behave, learn their patterns, and get alerts if something changes,” Thomson said. If security is embedded in everything, company systems will automatically notice changes in staff behaviour. This will help the Security team to attend to breaches before they happen.