Funding of crucial CDF projects including bursaries for needy students has been disrupted due to a delay by the Treasury in releasing money. Lawmakers are now appealing to Treasury CS Henry Rotich to disburse Sh30.9 billion CDF money without delay to implement the programmes after meeting all lawful procedures. All 290 constituencies have set up Constituency Development Fund committees and members officially gazetted in addition to involving the public in identifying projects. Read : MPs unhappy over delay in CDF money release Kibwezi East MP Jessicca Mbalu yesterday confirmed to the Star on the phone that her constituency is yet to receive funds. “National Treasury should act fast and release the funds because we have already met the procedural conditions. My priority is education for the constituents and needy students need bursaries as schools reopen,” she said. Mbalu, also Public Accounts Committee vice chairperson and a committee member on the speaker’s panel, said the House leadership is in touch with Treasury for legislators to get the funds soon. “Everyone knows the social impact of CDF money on residents. We (House leadership) are pushing to have the money disbursed fast to constituency bank accounts,” she said. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, also a commissioner in the Parliamentary Service Commission, confirmed to the Star the 47 Women Reps are yet to receive Sh2 billion for affirmative action programmes. The CDF chief executive officer Yusuf Mbuno yesterday told the Star the process of identifying projects to be funded is ongoing among the constituency CDF committees across the country. “The disbursement of CDF money is based on approved project proposals and Treasury will release the funds once the process of identifying the projects is through,” Mbuno said. Also read  : MPs told to quickly nominate CDF board members He blamed the delay on the long election period and confirmed his office is working closely with the Treasury for the funds to be released. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale had assured MPs last month before proceeding on a two-month recess until February 14 that Rotich was to disburse the CDF money mid-last December. Duale made the assurance after lawmakers demanded answers from him after Treasury failed to release the funds by December 1.  Click here for latest political news