Nairobi Hockey Association are protesting machinations being advanced by the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) incumbent as they seek to return to office during next Saturday’s polls at the Sikh Union Club in Nairobi.  NHA secretary general, Tom Olal said KHU have already started playing dirty and they risk not having a level playing field. Contrary to the constitution, Olal said the KHU incumbent are keen on increasiung their vote by bring in outsiders serving in the FIH and AHF board. “It has come to our attention that the current KHU board has included members serving in various capacities at the FIH as voters contrary to their statutes,” he said. According to Article 1.4(c) of the statutes, FIH shall purpose to protect and ensure autonomy of its members, including the protection of the right of democratic elections free from outside influence.  “Moreover, Article 7.2(b) states that those serving under the board shall serve in their personal capacities and not as representatives of any member of the FIH,” he added. It is a requirement under the Kenya Sports Act, 2013 and the KHU Constitution that any person who wishes to vie for a position at KHU or participate in their elections must be a member through various associations and shall be nominated by the members, which are the various county associations. “We are concerned that the FIH and AHF are prone to interfere with upcoming elections as they shall be required to nominate Kenyan citizens working under the two boards to be eligible for elections and also cast votes in the same,” he noted.  “Your Statute seeks to promote independence on national country members’ elections but here in Kenya, we have the members under the boards not complying with the written provisions of the FIH Statutes. We wish to kindly request that you address us on the matter urgently and take the appropriate measures to ensure the promotion of Article 1.4(c) and 7.2(b),” said NHA secretary in letter to FIH.  NHS will field former national hockey player Inderjit Matharu for presidency, Doreen Otieno (first deputy president), Tom Olal (secretary), Wangechi Gachuhi (treasurer), James Akweri (match secretary) and Kalpesh Solanki (public relations).