Business resumed in Kisumu town yesterday after experiencing disruptions during the swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga as the ‘peoples president’. The town looked busy as most traders who had closed their shops during the function resumed business. This is compared to Tuesday, there was minimal business and traffic flow within the lake side city before things later came to a standstill as residents celebrated Raila’s oath. Hundreds of supporters from Nyalenda, Kondele, Migosi and Manyatta took to the streets with dance and songs soon after Raila took the aoth as the people’s president at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. They marched along the major streets chanting anti-President Uhuru Kenyatta slogans saying that their dream of getting to Canaan had finally been realised. Others marched to the gates of Kisumu State Lodge while the rest defaced sign posts along Jomo Kenyatta Highway. They said everything in Kisumu should be named after Raila. Speaking to the Star, they said they are now waiting for instructions on the way forward from their leaders after the swearing-in ceremony. “We are waiting for ‘baba’ to tell us the next line of action. Now that he (Raila) has been sworn in, we expect him to be quick with forming his Cabinet that will him deliver services to the people,” businessman Wyclife Onyango said. However, most of the residents registered their disappointment after the other three principals failed to show up for the swearing-in ceremony at Uhuru Park on Tuesday. “This was a betrayal and at least 'baba' is free from them because he currently owes them nothing come 2022, no amount of explanation or reasons they give that will justify what they did,” resident Mary Musonye said. “We will not let Kalonzo Musyoka's disappointment ruin our celebration. Raila is the new people’s president,” resident Mark Oluoch said. Raila earlier said he won the August 8 poll and does not recognize President Uhuru Kenyatta's leadership, adding he was determined to lead Kenyans to ‘Canaan'