Music and dance have the ability to transport a mortal to a world of infinity, where there are no problems and life is pure bliss, if only for that moment when the rhythm is playing and your hands and feet are moving. For those who want to take a break from a hectic week at work, a popular destination is a club to drink and dance the stress away. There, no formula is needed to the dance steps. After all, nobody may remember you had two left feet the following day because everyone was high on alcohol, the music and life.   A COUPLE’S AFFAIR But for those who value the art of dance, they might decide to take a few lessons to learn one of the many professional dance styles – be it salsa, merengue or other Afrocentric dances, including kizomba, Afro latin and Afro beat. Dancing kizomba is an art and is a couples’ affair. It is sensual and slow, with many hip rotations. It is believed to have originated in Angola in the 1970s. For those who appreciate the art that is dance, Marion Munga, the founder of the Dance Factory, has just the solution. Although Marion studied finance for her Bachelor’s degree, she moved away from the world of numbers to the field of music because that is where her passion lies.   TEAM BUILDING SESSIONS The Dance Factory Kenya believes dance is an expression of your inner being. The company organises dance events that include dance training for team building sessions, which it says equips executives with people skills that complement technical expertise and make them all-round performers. The factory also organises dance theme parties, wedding dance classes and dance therapy, which is meant to heal physically, mentally and spiritually. Let’s not forget dance can be used for fitness, and the dance factory helps people get into shape through fitness programmes tailored to one’s needs.   CHILDREN CLASSES, TOO The Dance Factory Kenya offers classes for children and adults. Its next event is a monthly dance party – the Nairobi Afro Latin Social – at Tree House, Westlands, on January 20 and every third Saturday of the month. So the next time you want to dance, you could probably take a class and learn the art that is dance.