A special team of crime busters has been established to crack down on criminal gangs targeting bank customers withdrawing huge sums of cash. Daring criminals have been trailing traders inside banking halls and to the city streets where they kidnap, carjack or rob them of their money. The gang has resorted to shooting and killing victims who put up a fight. Police are yet to solve a majority of the reported cases. Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende has since the beginning of the New Year held three meetings with the new team but no tangible results have been seen so far. Yesterday, the team that includes officers from the Flying Squad and Special Crimes Prevention Unit held its fourth meeting at the Nairobi county DCI offices. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet yesterday promised action on the gang. “A major operation is under way,” said the police chief in a message to the Star. The gang has not spared the high and mighty, including senior city police commanders. Assistant Inspector General of Police Francis Njiru lost close to Sh400,000 to the gang in December. Njiru, an Israeli trained commando, once headed the Flying Squad unit. He was walking to his Railways Headquarters office when he was attacked and robbed. The robbery is one of the cases under investigations. The same gang has been blamed for carjacking and the murder of 35-year-old businessman Frankline Mugambi in Kasarani on January 6. The criminals forced Mugambi into their car soon after he walked out of the banking hall where he had withdrawn Sh600,000 in Kasarani. Mugambi was the proprietor of three eateries in Nairobi, among them the prominent Red Office Restaurant in Kasarani. Last Saturday, Sylvester Kisuki, a military officer based in Gilgil and ex-convict James Kalelu were arrested by Ruiru police in connection with the murder of Mugambi. They were charged before a Thika court on Monday. Police were allowed to continue detaining the suspects as they conclude investigations. Moses Maina, a spare part dealer in Nairobi was on November 23 robbed of Sh800,000 by criminals posing as police officers. Maina had withdrawn Sh800,000 from a bank in Ruiru which he hoped to use to boost his business. Men claiming to be officers in civilian clothing trailed the taxi he was driving and caught up with him at PCEA Kasarani. They had radio calls and guns. Click here for the latest political news