 Human Resource
professionals should always be on the lookout for opportunities to add
commercial value to their organisations. For far too long, CEO’s, unwilling to
get to grips with the face-to-face reality of managing staff issues, have
delegated far too much to HR. In a kind
of arms-length exercise they have expected HR to deal with hiring, firing and
all the messy bits in between. Thus, HR people are often focused entirely on
the internal geography of the organisation. But modern
CEO’s, with brands to deliver, now have a right to demand more. And one major
step forward would be the hiring of people who are a natural fit with what the
company is trying to do. If your company brand is restless, find restless people.
If it is ingenious, look for people whose ingenuity amazes you. Do not try to
shoehorn a random Business Degree holder from the University Bangalore into a
role that requires very specific personality attributes. You won’t
find such attributes in any CV, and you’d have to be something of a lay
psychologist to identify them through interview. That’s why so many wrong
candidates are hired on gut instinct. 
Gut instinct is what you employ when you have no objective indicators to
hand. And despite what may entrepreneurs tell you, using gut instinct in people
choices is wrong. Research shows that
cognitive aptitude and personality profile tests are twice as predictive of job
performance as interviews, and three times as effective as resumes. So, it’s a relief
to discover at least one East African recruitment business using robust testing
methods. By Appointment Africa (www.byappointmentafrica.com) walks the corridors of several of my clients’
offices. They never hire without understanding the working environment and culture
of a business. Then they apply international pre-employment tests, as an
efficient and objective way to gather data that predicts employee performance. The
tests are tailored to specific job descriptions and character requirements. They tell me this all
results in bottom line improvements through increased workforce productivity; and
reduced staff turnover and repeat hiring costs. BAA’s Managing Director Vanessa
Strong says, “Character synergy in the vetting process is as important as
technical skills assessment.’ If you run a small business,
you will know this already. The introduction of the wrong personality can
disrupt or destroy the culture you are building and it will lose you customers.
It’s just the same with big companies. Only you can’t see the damage being
done, because it’s happening way below Board level. We can’t deliver brands
without people, so we’d better assemble the right cast of characters. Chris Harrison leads The
Brand Inside in Africa www.thebrandinside.com 