Withdrawal of the poll petition by former Senator Hassan Omar against Governor Hassan Joho was a calculated strategy to secure Omar’s interests ahead of 2022, the Star can confirm. Omar is understood to be considering another run for Mombasa governor in five years, sources close to him told the Star. He would need support from the popular Coast kingpin Joho and his support base. On Tuesday, he filed notice to withdraw his poll petition. A deal had been brokered much earlier between Joho and Omar, in which the former Wiper secretary general would drop the case, sources close to Omar told the Star. Details of the deal are scant, but it is believed several emissaries were involved. Omar’s claim that Justice Lydia Achode was biased and should recuse herself was just a smokescreen, the sources said. Omar cited that as a reason to drop the petition. The former senator, who defected to Jubilee, said on Tuesday he wanted to withdraw the petition because he could not get justice and the outcome was predetermined in Joho’s favour. Kalonzo asked about PROGRESS In the application to withdraw, Omar denied a deal. “To the best of my knowledge and belief, no agreement or terms of any kind has been made and no undertaking has been entered into in relation to withdrawal of the petition,” he said. Last Saturday during the launch of the Mombasa People’s Assembly, attended by NASA leader Raila Odinga, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka asked Joho how far the case had advanced, a source close to Kalonzo said. Joho said the petition would be withdrawn and his team had met with Omar who agreed to drop it, he added. DIVISIVE CASE During the rally, Raila was seated between the two, and due to the noise, Kalonzo had to raise his voice to be heard by Joho. The source overheard Kalonzo talking to Joho. It is understood Omar was convinced he stands a better chance of winning the governor’s seat if he does not pursue a divisive case against a popular governor. Prior to the August 8, 2017, election, efforts failed to have Wiper’s Omar step down in favour of former Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, also running for governor. Both refused to cede ground and both lost to Joho. Awiti, formerly of Wiper, defected to the Vibrant Democratic Party and ran on its ticket. Sources close to Joho and Omar said discussions to withdraw the case started weeks ago, when Omar filed to have Justice Achode recuse herself from the case. Omar’s intention to drop the petition did not surprise those following court proceedings. Some observers also said withdrawal will also paint him in a bad light. Political analyst Philip Kalulu yesterday said withdrawal would be a win for Joho and a loss for Omar. He said Joho will be seen as a strong person, while Omar will be viewed as a weaker politician, who easily lost his own petition. “People will not see he withdrew the petition. They’ll view him as someone who lost to Joho,” Kalulu said. He said Omar would have to go back to his supporters and convince them he withdrew the petition in good faith. Omar must take advantage of events leading to the withdrawal to explain his situation, if his supporters are to take him seriously, Kalulu said. petition The basis of Omar’s petition, filed in September, was that there were massive irregularities, with Joho being declared winner without Forms 35B from the constituencies. He also cited name confusion (both are called Hassan) and voter intimidation. He also revived the question about Joho’s academic credentials, saying he was not qualified to run for governor. Omar’s theatrics in court was dismissed by observers, who said the matter was near conclusion. Final submissions are to be made on February 3. Omar was the first person to testify and was considered rude to Joho’s lawyers. At one point, his own lawyer Yusuf Abubakar forced him to apologise to Mohammed Balala, Joho’s advocate, for rudeness. When Joho testified, Omar rushed to court seeking presiding Judge Lydia Achode’s recusal. Omar cited open bias, double standards and said he lacked confidence in Justice Achode. He said it would be hypocritical for him to proceed. “I no longer have confidence in the neutrality of the presiding judge and I believe I will not get justice,” Omar said. The application to have Achode recuse herself was thrown out last Friday, when Achode called it emotional and lacking “legs to stand on”. Achode said, “The petitioner has never appealed any court ruling to express dissatisfaction. It was not enough for the former senator to make mere allegations. He should have given reasonable grounds that there is bias.” She said on several occasions, Omar’s lawyer had agreed with court decisions. It was unfair for the petitioner to term her decisions biased, yet she had always portrayed a fair ruling, Achode said. The application to withdraw will be argued on February 2. Joho’s lawyer Balala expressed confidence that they will win. “Looks like they are on the run and scared of losing. We are intent on staying the course and not running away as the petitioner is now seeking to do, having sensed imminent defeat,” he said.