Defending champion Geoffrey Kamworor leads a star-studded Kenyan team to the World Half Marathon Championship slated for Valencia, Spain in March. Kamworor will be targeting to win the crown for the third time after bagging titles in Cardiff in 2014 and Copenhagen in 2016. The reigning world cross country champion geared up for the event by winning the Kenya Police service cross country event over the weekend at Ngong racecourse and said he is in good form to go for third consecutive title. Kamworor has been in fine form having clinched the New York City marathon in November last year. “ I am more than ready to defend my title. I want to win for third time and I hope to intensify my preparations in the next couple of weeks,” added Kamworor. Others in the men’s team unveiled yesterday by Athletics Kenya (AK) include runners up from the last year’s event in Cardiff, Bedan Karoki, 2017 national cross country champion Leonard Barsoton alongside Barselius Kipyegon and Joram Okombo. World Half Marathon record holder Joyceline Jepkosgei, who had a stellar 2017, leads the women’s field for the one-day event. Jepkosgei, who also holds the 10km record, will be one of the race favourites in the Spanish city, owing to her stunning performance in road races over the past one year and has set her sights on breaking the world record in Valencia this year. “I have run at Valencia a couple of times and I know the course very well. I can attempt to break the world record again,” she was quoted as saying. The rest of the women’s line-up include Fancy Chemutai, Ruth Chepngetich, Pauline Kaveke and Mary Wacera. Meanwhile, little known Kenneth Mburu, Nicholas Kamakya and Julius Nderitu will form the men’s marathon team for the Commonwealth Games slated for April 4-15 in Gold Coast, Australia. The women’s team comprises of Shelmith Muriuki, Hellen Nzembi and Sheilah Jerotich with the trio entrusted with defending Kenya’s gold and silver medals won by Flomena Cheyech and Caroline Kemboi respectively in the 2014 games held in Glasgow, Scotland.