Twins Angela Okutoyi and Roselida Asumwa will square it out in a thrilling final for 14 years and under category after winning their respective semi finals in the ongoing Eastern Africa Junior Championships at Nairobi Club. Okutoyi eliminated compatriot Alicia Owegi 6-1,6-4 while Asumwa saw off another Kenyan Cynthia Cheruto 6-2,6-1 to ignite a sibling rivalry in the final. Odds were in favour of Okutoyi in the semis against Owegi as she dropped a single game in the opening set to ease pressure on her side. In the final set, Owegi returned stronger, where she claimed the first three games before surrendering the fourth to Okutoyi. She bagged the fifth game for a 4-1 lead but could not replicate the grandeur form in the successive games which she bitterly lost to Okutoyi, ending her finals dream. Upon learning of a final which pits her against her sister, Okutoyi could not hide her joy, saying: “It’s amazing that I’ll be playing her in the finals. I feel it’s going to be a tough match since I have never played her in a competitive match before. Today’s match was a bit tough especially in the second set but I am happy I won.” Her sister Asumwa also expressed her shock after being pitted against her twin sister in the final. “ I have never played her before in a competitive match but I understand her playing style well. I at least want her to get one set from me so that the winner can be determined from the third set. Generally, I am happy to make it to the final and equally shocked to face my twin sister in the final. Asumwa had an easy encounter against Cheruto where she won 6-2, 6-1. The rookies are likened to world’s renowned tennis figures Serena and Venus William and their head coach Allan Atola describes them as players harbouring exceptional capabilities. Atola, however, tipped Okutoyi to carry the day considering her vast experience in the ITF legs and other tournaments “They have exceptional skills but I think Angela will carry the day. She has played many matches as opposed to Asumwa. She also has the experience and exposure at the international level.” In the girls’ U-16 final, it will be a Burundian affair as Aisha Niyonkuru tackle Hoziane Kitambala. Niyonkuru, who doubles up as the Karen Open runners up thumped Belysie Irakoze of Rwanda 6-1,6-0 while Kitambala send Tanzania’s Esther Paulo packing 6-0, 6-3. The winners in both age sets will represent the Eastern Africa region at the Africa Junior Championships. A slip by Kenyan Derrick Ominde spoiled Kenya party in the boys’ U-16 as the latter was set to play Ryan Randiek in the final. Ominde lost 6-0, 6-2 to Seychelles’ Damien Laporte to crush out of the tournament. On the other hand, Randiek smacked Bertin Karenzi of Rwanda 6-2, 6-3 to book a final clash with Laporte. Randiek will be out to extend his dominance against the Seychelles’ opponent, whom he beat in the 2016 edition. “I have played Laporte before in 2016, where I beat him and in 2017, I retired in the semis where I had a convincing lead by the time I sustained an injury. I understand his playing style and tactics and I am hopeful of victory in the finals.This time round, I want to advance further in the African Junior Championships and surpass the 2016 semis records. Its a huge task but I believe with practice and the right mindset, I will make it.” In the boys 14 and under, the Kenyan duo of Karl Shah and Jayson Mbogoro will face off in the final.The Spain-based Shah beat Abdoul Nuru Ndiwimana 6-0,6-0 while the United States-based Mbogoro ruined Tanzanian Kanuti Alagwa’s quest for a final slot. Shah expressed his confidence of rolling over Mbogoro in the final.