Form will go out of the window as Quins host Impala Saracens in the highlight match of the weekend in the Kenya Cup at the RFUEA grounds today. The Ngong Road derby is arguably one of the oldest fixture on the rugby calendar and fireworks are expected in what will be bruising 80 minutes. Traditionally, derby matches are always too close to call and this one will be no different. Quins have had the edge over Impala in the last six encounters, winning five, with Impala lone success coming in a 33-22 scoreline in 2014. Last season, Quins completed the double, beating Impala 28-10 in intermittent rain at the latter’s backyard and winning the return leg 36-26. Impala are third on the standings with 20 points from five while Quins are fifth with 17 points. The two sides come in to the derby on contrasting form. Quins lost 22-13 to Kabras Sugar in Kakamega while Impala demolished Resolution Kisii 77-0 in last weekend. The hosts have made three changes to their starting XV. Kangethe twins Joseph and James miss out after a sub per performance in the match against Kabras with Brian Obwoya and Paul Kioko starting alongside Edward Aseko in front row. Flanker Peter Misango and Ronald Musajja are replaced by Kenya 7s international Herman Humwa and Brian Okwomi. In the backs, Aaron Ofoyrwoth starts in place of Lyle Asiligwa at scrumhalf with Isaac Adimo, Cyprian Kuto and Solomon Okia the key actors in the backs. On their part Impala have made two changes to their side for todays fiery encounter. Ian Minjire starts at fullback with the experienced Dennis Karani starting at tight head prop. Key players for the visitors include captain Sam Onsomu and Nato Simiyu at half back alongside Derrick Mayar and Billy Omondi in the backs with Davis Makori, Duncan Ekasi and Harritone Munai the pick of the forwards . In other fixtures of the day, Mwamba host champions KCB at the Railway Club. Nakuru entertain Homeboyz as Blak Blad meet Kisii. Strathmore Leos have a date with Mombasa Sports Club at the coast as Nondies battle Kabras. The matches kickoff at 4pm.