Learning has been paralysed in a number of Kerio Valley schools following fresh bandit attacks at the West Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border. Several families, school children and teachers have fled from villages in the area following the killing of five people last week. Read: Five bandits killed, six injured in renewed Kerio Valley clashes  Some of the affected schools are Kayla, Kameli, Liter, Chesogon, Kapkain primary schools; Liter and Kameli secondary schools among others. KNUT officials and area MCAs, led by Evans Limo (Kapyego)
and Paul Kipchumba (Embobut),  urged leaders from both sides to meet
and dialogue for lasting peace.
 "Activities such as those of 10 schools have been affected by insecurity. We call for calm
and restraint from communities in the region," Limo said.
 The two MCAs spoke to journalists in
Eldoret  on Wednesday. Marakwet West KNUT secretary John Cheberi said many children and teachers have kept away from schools in fear of repeat attacks. Cheberi asked the government to take the insecurity situation in Kerio
Valley seriously and deploy adequate security teams. "The government must intervene urgently and deploy adequate security to restore normalcy so that our children can go to school." However, several schools reopened on Monday in some locations where security has improved. Government officials are also going on with distribution of text books to form one students in schools in the North Rift region. Thisincludes parts of Kerio Valley where security has been beefed up. On Monday, political leaders from West Pokot
and Elgeyo Marakwet met to enhance the peace process in the region and vowed to eliminate banditry. West
Pokot Senator Samwel Poghisio, Governor John Lonyangapuo, Elgeyo
Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and his deputy Wisley Rotich were at the meeting held at Kameli in West
Pokot. "We have vowed to work together
to end the cattle rusting menace that has affected the region economically and
socially," Tolgos said. Read: Kerio locals hide in snake-filled caves for fear of bandit attacks  Click
here for the latest political news 