EACC has warned that MCAs who engage in fights and activities that breach peace could soon lose their seats and a by-election called. The agency and County Assemblies Forum on Wednesday proposed a legislation that will see combative members recalled. This is in the wake of recent fist fights witnessed in various county assemblies. The anti-corruption body says it has put Trans Nzoia, Murang’a, Kericho, Taita Taveta, and Nyeri on its watch list. Related: EACC summons 18 Murang'a MCAs over assembly fights Read: Fist fights in Murang'a as Jubilee MCAs disagree on assembly leadership EACC vice chairperson Sophia Lepuchirit said Chapter Six of the Constitution prohibits unethical behaviour as that witnessed in Murang'a. "Wrangling members are required to follow channel of command to resolve their differences," she said on Wednesday. "Chapter Six will hunt you down; it is equally dangerous and can trigger prosecution."  Their members have exchanged blows over “trivial” matters as a means to iron out their differences. CAF chairman Johnson Osoi said the “ungovernable” members must be held to account. "We want civilised leaders in assemblies. This is not yesteryears where councillors would have a fight with chairs," he said. Osoi said CAF will be “happy” to see brawling MCAs lose their seats. "We are keen to hand over these members upon request from the Commission. Growing old is not a choice, growing up is. MCAs should grow up," he said. Among other issues, the Leadership and Integrity Chapter states a State officer shall behave, in a manner that avoids demeaning the office the officer holds. Murang’a MCAs were the latest to brawl. It was the third fight in seven weeks, following a change of leadership in the assembly. Osoi said standard test for every MCAs will work. "We call upon the membership to carry themselves with decorum. The era of fighting with chairs is over," he said. Osoi who is also the speaker of the Kajiado assembly said a future war will compel them to write to EACC for stern action. "Majority of MCAs behaves well, there are minorities who think they live in the law of the jungle," he said. Also read; [VIDEO] Murang'a MCAs fight for the third time as leadership row deepens Click here for the latest political news 