Governor Mike Sonko has warned his cabinet he will not hesitate to fire anyone found engaging in corruption. Sonko on Wednesday told the 10 members of his county executive committee he will not sit and watch as his name is tainted by their greed for quick bucks. Read: [Statement] Serve Nairobians with integrity, Sonko tells freshly sworn-in CECs  The governor said top among his priorities will be fighting corruption and the cartels that have infiltrated the Nairobi county government before. “Fighting corruption is a collective responsibility. On my part, I will spare no one found engaging in corruption,” Sonko said. He spoke during the official opening of the five-day induction seminar of the executives at the Sun n Sand Beach Resort in Kikambala, Kilifi county. The induction seminar started on Monday and will end on Friday.  Nairobi governor Mike Sonko with county secretary Morintat Leboo , Larry Wambua(devolution) ,Chief of staff Brian Mugo and Charles Kerich (ICT)during induction workshop of county executive committee members at Sun and Sand beach resort in Kilifi county on January 10th 2018. BRIAN OTIENO The governor narrated how he fought land cartels in the city-county while he was the Senator and said he will not tire if it means making life easier and more enjoyable for Nairobi residents. He, however, noted that this calls for cooperation, sacrifice and bravery. “Upon assuming office, I received the status reports from all the departments of the County Government which revealed shocking levels of waste, mismanagement, corruption and Nairobi governor Mike Sonko with county secretary Morintat Leboo , Larry Wambua(devolution) ,Chief of staff Brian Mugo and Charles Kerich (ICT)during induction workshop of county executive committee members at Sun and Sand beach resort in Kilifi county on January 10th 2018.The governor demonstrated that county executive members should works round the clock to change lives of Nairobians towards effective and efficient service delivery/BRIAN OTIENO. “I challenge you to take a bold move to put in place policies to countercheck the above mentioned,” Sonko said. He listed the lands, finance and the human resource departments as the most infiltrated by the cartels with some employees personalizing some offices because they have worked in them for over 15 years non-stop. The governor pledged support for the executives provided they help make life better for Nairobi residents. He said land grabbing is still rampant and warned the lands executive to expect a lot of pressure from the public and himself in case he strays from his and his deputy Polycarp Igathe’s vision for the city-county. “You must, therefore, work overtime to ensure that all public utilities are protected and grabbed ones repossessed,” Sonko said. He told the executive in charge of Finance to speedily ensure cartels at the Rates Departments are dismantled. “The cartels have been terrorizing helpless widows and Nairobians in general through fraudulent transfers of properties through a well-planned syndicate,” Sonko said. “I am confident that with improved revenue collection, delays in the payment of salaries and service delivery will be a thing of the past under my administration,” he noted. He, however, said revenue collection has improved in the last five months and this goes to show they made the right choice in picking the 10. The trade executive will have to ensure that the cost of doing business for small-scale traders is reduced to an affordable minimum. Thirty per cent of the county budget must go to development, he noted, adding the former administration failed to meet this constitutional requirement. “I don’t want a repeat of that,” he said.   Click here for the latest political news 