Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni has said he stopped drinking soft drinks after he was introduced to KCC milk. He gave the example to illustrate the need for integration of the East Africa Community during the second sitting of the 1st Session of the Fourth Assembly in Kampala, Uganda, on Tuesday. Museveni told the EALA members that free movement of goods in the region will strengthen integration. “In 1965, Kenyans liberated me from Coca-Cola. The beverage was the only decent drink one would find then. One day, I came across packed milk, KCC, from Kenya. I stopped drinking Coca-Cola and also began contributing to the prosperity of Kenyan farmers by consuming their milk,” he said. Read: Museveni in state visit for talks with Uhuru Museveni, also the chairperson of the Summit of EAC Heads of State, wants the EA countries to go full throttle and unite the markets for the prosperity of their citizens. “We need a situation where all producers in the partner states are able to freely sell their produce,” he said. Museveni said the region stood to gain much more as a unified front. “This integration is not about the leaders, but the people who produce wealth. Why do we talk about hunger while in Uganda, for example, we have sufficient maize — about five million tons capable of sufficiently meeting our needs?” he said. The EA communities are linked by culture, language or history, hence socioeconomic development is key to the region’s integration, he said. Museveni also cited strategic security as an element key to integration. “Africans need to solve their own problems. In this world, you cannot survive if you are weak — and this is of our own making. Why can’t we make Africa strong?” he said, calling on the continent to speak in one voice. He urged the EA countries to take advantage of their common natural resources such as Lake Victoria to spur growth. “This, among other resources, should be managed on an East African basis. We have the ability to manage the resources collectively. Such [resources] might save us in future,” Museveni said. Read: KOT, Ugandans go wild after Museveni lecture on how not to get sick He praised the EAC forefathers for their vision in uniting the region in the 1960s. The collapse of the envisaged union led to some of the present-day challenges and catastrophic events, the leader said. “In Uganda, for example, we could not have had the Idi Amin challenge, had we succeeded in forming a unified government. The genocide in Rwanda could also not have happened if there was a unified East African Community union,” Museveni said. He congratulated new EALA Speaker Martin Ngoga for his election. Click here for the latest political news 