IEBC has refuted NASA's claims that Raila Odinga won the August 2017 presidential election saying the Opposition's allegations were false and meant to disgruntle Kenyans. The electoral agency, in a response to allegations made by NASA leaders last week, said President Uhuru Kenyatta was the winner of the cancelled poll. The polls body has maintained that Uhuru won with 8.2 million votes against Raila's 6.7 million, results which were annulled by the Supreme Court on September 1 last year. But on Friday
last week, NASA presented a report on the results through which they said Raila's January 30 swearing-in will be
based. The report showed that Raila got 8.1 million votes compared to Uhuru's 7.9 million. The electoral agency, on its part, declared Uhuru the winner
with 8,203,290 votes against Raila's 6,762,224 but the ODM leader said
he won by over 1.4 million votes. Read: NASA claims Raila got 8.1 million votes, met 50% plus one condition "This
is it. This is the document that contains results of the election in
2017, in which more than 80 per cent of Kenyans participated," Siaya
Senator James Orengo said. The NASA team claimed that only 25 per cent of the registered voters participated in the October 26 re-run. Also read: Influential faces behind NASA’s planned swearing-in ceremony IEBC acting chairperson Connie Maina said: "This was based on the interpretation of the Maina Kiai civil appeal which ruled that the presidential results declared at the constituency level are final." She further castigated the Opposition saying Nasa Chief agent John Walubengo accessed RTS servers more times compared to all other agents of the presidential candidates. "Walubengo attempted to log in 54 times, had 34 successful logins and 20 failed logins. Therefore, it is clear that the NASA agent had the highest number of logins." "This is a fact that NASA has always deliberately failed to inform Kenyans," the poll agency official said in a paid up newspaper advertisement on Tuesday. She said it was wrong for NASA to continuously mention the names of the agents of their political opponents to give an impression that they were the only ones granted access. According to IEBC, Jubilee Party chief agent Davis Chirchir had attempted 24 logins, 10 of them were successful and 14 logins failed. But during their presentation at Hotel Intercontinental, Orengo said the document has details of how Raila was elected as president, thereby gives reasons why he must be sworn-in. Click here for the latest political news