Eldoret businessman Barnabas Kiprono wants to take over part of the multi-billion shilling estate of the late Nicholas Biwott over an unpaid debt. Kiprono, who has already moved to court, said he entered a financial bailout deal with Biwott and that the former Keiyo South MP had not paid the debt when he died last year. The millionaire estate developer in Eldoret, Nakuru and Nairobi said the deal was worth millions of shillings. “I gave him the money to develop a tea factory and also sought out his other financial obligations. He was to repay but unfortunately, he passed on before we cleared,” Kiprono said. He said he has all the documents and details of the deal. Kiprono said efforts to get Biwott’s widow, Hannie, to resolve the matter had yielded no fruit, hence his decision to move to court. Read: How Biwott weathered controversies surrounding him THREE WEEKS “I have tried all avenues to resolve the matter with her but she has been uncooperative. I had no option but to move to court,” Kiprono said. The High Court has given Biwott’s family 21 days to accept or reject letters of administration over Biwott’s properties. Biwott is survived by three family members - Rhoda, Hannie and Johana Biwott - who are administrators of his estate. Kiprono wants to be named the fourth administrator of the estate.Through Kalya and Company Advocates, Kiprono said he was the deceased’s creditor and one of the people entitled to a share of his estate. ”This is to direct that the three family members make an appearance, within 21 days, to be entered by either the principal registry or the Eldoret registry, and accept or refuse letters of administration of the whole estate, which by law devolves to and vests in the personal representatives of the deceased,” the Eldoret High Court said. HUGE AMOUNT They will be required to show why Kiprono’s request should not be granted. The court warned that should the relatives default, it will grant letters of administration to Kiprono. Read: Ultimatum for Nicholas Biwott family as trader goes for billions Click here for the latest political news