City streets and bus terminus which were jammed by travellers during the Christmas fete were nearly deserted yesterday as the festive mood wears off in the first week on the year. The chaotic and crowded bus and matatu stages which were packed with frustrated passengers after the NTSA banned night travel has seen demand drop. Stranded travellers and PSVs that were barely able to cope with demand as schools reopened can now breathe easy. Major terminus Machakos Country Bus stage by yesterday was calm with the crowded and chaotic lanes jammed with students and parents having virtually disappeared.  Easy Coach offices at the Kenya Railway's godowns off haile sellasie avenue where scenes of shou which had witnessed high octane drama from angry and frustrated travellers, was in a slumber mode as there were no many people scrambling to board their buses. “Things are now back to normal after days of pressure from our customers. You can see that there are countable passengers waiting here compared to the crowd which was here yesterday and the day before. In fact, they are below 15 in number,” said Kennedy James, a supervisor at the company. James added that by 10am, they had cleared the backlog of the travellers who had made advance bookings and currently they are allowing advance bookings again after stopping them for the past three days. “We are now done with those who had done advance bookings and we are now allowing advance bookings again but for only day travels,” he said. At the Guardian Angel office, which was a beehive of activities on Wednesday, only three travellers were at the booking office and no stranded passengers were in sight, a far cry from the crowd that had been a common feature in the area for the previous three days. A similar situation was also witnessed down at the Machakos Country Bus station, where the number of travellers had drastically reduced and you could see some touts fighting for passengers once again, a contrast from the previous three days when passengers had to fight to get a space in the buses even with hiked fares. “The number of those traveling has reduced. We have now even been forced to reduce the fare from Sh1,500 to Sh1,000 as they are not there,” said a ticket vendor with Nyamira Express going to Kendu Bay through Oyugis.  