Kuppet wants a review of university entry points to accommodate candidates who failed. Secretary general Akelo Misori said on Thursday that the high number of candidates who scored below C+ could result in a disaster if they are left without options. “There needs to be a debate about the revision. If we let this go, we will have to close all private universities," he said. “Even the police force may not have candidates because entry requirements are higher. We don’t want to have such wastage." He spoke on Wednesday on the sidelines of a meeting by the national steering committee on curriculum reforms at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. In the results released by Education CS Fred Matiang’i on December 20, 540,428 (55.49 per cent) candidates scored below the minimum university entry grade of C+. Another 438,914 (37.31 per cent) scored D+ and below, meaning they cannot join mid-level colleges for diploma courses. More on results: KNUT rejects 'fraudulent' KCSE 2017 results, demands audit Also read: NASA MPs mull impeaching Matiang'i over 'shocking' KCSE failures Only 142 candidates scored straight As, an improvement of just one candidate compared to 2016. Overall, only 70,073 qualified to join university down from 88,929 who managed this last year. The number of A-s dropped by more than half to 2,714 from 4,645 in 2016. “So we still insist on the need for a debate around the way examination are administered,” Misori said, adding questions on the validity of last year’s KCSE also need to be answered. In the national tests, the results of 10 schools were withheld pending investigations on cheating. The schools will know their fate on January 18. Further, five candidates were disqualified before the tests after they were caught engaging in malpractices. Some 40 teachers were also found to have been involved in irregularities. “We need to answer the question of whether the examination was reliable and valid ... validity requires meeting criteria." The question of has also been raised by a number of MPs. “If Knec was forcibly guided by any individual inside or outside the council, it should come out and tell us,” Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said on December 28. Walter Owino of Awendo and Uriri MP Mark Nyamita claimed the Teachers Service Commission influenced the marking process. Click here for the latest political stories    