Andy Murray has undergone hip surgery which he hopes might allow him to be back competing in time for Wimbledon. The 30 year-old Scot spoke on Monday of how his withdrawal from this month’s events in Australia helped persuade him that he needed to have an operation after painstaking efforts at rehab had failed to yield the desired results. Murray described the procedure, performed in Melbourne, as having gone ‘very well’, and while there are no certainties it offers the prospect of him being back hitting balls within two months. “My plan is to be back playing around the grass court season – potentially before then, but I’m certainly not going to rush anything,” he said. “I’ve been quoted times for how long it’s taken for players to get back from the surgery I’ve had, and I’ve been given up to 14 weeks. Most likely that will be around the grass court season, maybe slightly before.” “I’m not going to put a date on it, because there’s no need for me to do that. I want to come back when I’m fit and ready to play, not to get into a situation like in Brisbane or New York (last year’s US Open), where I’m unsure when I turn up at a tournament how fit I am. I want to know when I come back that I’m ready.” Seven days ago Murray tapped out a heartfelt message on Instagram following his withdrawal from Brisbane, pointing to his sense of inner hurt and turmoil. On Thursday he pulled out of the Australian Open, and in the official accompanying statement said that: “I’ll be flying home shortly to assess all the options.” By then he had, in fact, made up his mind to undergo surgery performed by Melbourne-based specialist John O’ Donnell, one of the leading hip experts he has been consulting since Wimbledon, and someone he has visited before on trips to Australia. He met with him rather than head straight home to England, and it was decided to operate on Monday (yesterday). Having imposed an almost total news blackout over the past two months, during which he postponed his planned early arrival in Australia and then made an unscheduled visit to Abu Dhabi, he was keen to open up and address what he feels have been misconceptions. Murray relatively poured forth in providing a much sunnier update. He explained that the consensus view he had received since limping out of Wimbledon’s quarter final was that it was worth trying to rehab the hip due to the uncertain outcome of surgery. He did not feel there was any alternative but to pursue that option initially, but it appears that the surgeon was happily surprised when he got a proper look inside the damaged area. “When you look at my hip on an MRI scan just now, it doesn’t look very good. Most tennis players’ hips if you scanned them wouldn’t look particularly good,” said Murray. “The potential is that the time out is a long time and also there is a good chance you don’t recover to a level to play tennis.”