Most primary schools in West Pokot county have not started using laptops and the Digital Learning Programme is a mirage. The schools have received the tablets and laptops, but most can’t use them since they do not have classrooms. Digital literacy is a flagship project of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Lopalekwa Primary School received 36 tablets last year but the pupils cannot use them as they sit on the ground in the dust. “We have been forced to lock the laptops in a cupboard, since we cannot work with them in the dust,” head teacher Mathew Chomil told the Star on Monday. He said the school with more than 200 pupils has only three classrooms, which are dilapidated, incomplete and dusty. The school has only two teachers employed by the Teachers’ Service Commission. The other three have been hired by parents. The school that started in 2008 has only 20 desks and lower class pupils sit on the ground or on stones under trees. “My deputy and I have been trained to use the laptops but we are unable to teach the children for lack of a conducive environment,” he said. Chomil said the school has many problems and asked well-wishers to help set up permanent classrooms. No cash from CDF Standard seven and six pupils share one classroom. Standard five and four another, and three and two share one class, Chomil said. The head teacher said the school has only two latrines and male teachers share the boys’ toilet. Parent Leonard Linakou said the school had not received anything from the Constituency Development Fund since 2008. Linakou said they had requested MP David Pkosing to help set up permanent classrooms through the CDF, but they have not received any money. Yesterday Pkosing said he helped connect power to the school. “These are mere politics. I have helped the school,” the MP said. Only one classroom is connected with power. Parent Linakou urged the TSC to send more teachers to the school, since parents are unable to pay them.“Most parents are poor and cannot afford to pay them. The government should remember our school when employing teachers,” Linakou said. He said they are unable to transfer their children to other schools as the nearest school is five kilometres away. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo asked MPs to ensure equitable distribution of funds to all schools, without bias.