IEBC chief executive Ezra Chiloba yesterday resumed duty after 45 days leave, as the commission gears towards conducting an internal audit of the two elections held last year. In the run-up to the October 26 repeat presidential poll, Chiloba took leave amid demands from NASA leader Raila Odinga and his team to have him axed from the commission. Chiloba confirmed to the Star he is back in office and ready to continue working in the commission. He said the agency will conduct self-evaluation on the August 8 and October 26 polls and update Kenyans on their next steps. Read : Ezra Chiloba, two others take leave from IEBC ahead of polls “Yes, I am back in office,” he said. “We just started a new year and we should be providing updates on next steps after the conclusion of the two elections last year.” Last year, Chiloba told the media he made a personal decision to take leave in light of the opposition’s demands, without giving more details. He gave an assurance that his leave would not deter the election since all arrangements had been set in place as ordered by the Supreme Court. “This is the first time I am taking leave since my son was born. He turns two years old in two-weeks,” Chiloba said then. After leading his supporters to weeks of mass protests demanding that Chiloba be fired, Raila bolted out of the repeat poll race, saying their irreducible minimums were not met. The NASA brigade alleged that Chiloba was facilitating rigging to favour President Uhuru Kenyatta in the repeat election. Raila later said the CEO is still in office, contrary to reports that he had taken leave. “Chiloba is in office and he is still in office as we speak. We will not be treated as fools,” he said at a rally in Nyamira. “No reforms, no election. Do not board that Jubilee bus that is taking you to hell. Wait for the Canaan Express, but that will be NASA.” In a leaked IEBC internal audit of the 2013 poll, the commission confessed that some BVR kits crashed before data of registered voters were backed up. “Some Biometric Voter Registration kits crashed before data was fully backed up. Moreover, no data was recovered from the laptops that were sent to Safran Morpho in Nairobi,” the audit noted. Click here for the latest political news