Overall inflation is expected to remain within range in the near term despite an increase in fuel prices. The Monetary Policy Committee has attributed the positive projections to sustained macroeconomic stability, increased optimism on the economic growth prospects, an improving business environment, and continued strengthening of the global economy. In a statement on Monday, MPC said a downward trend in overall inflation is expected to remain within reasonable range. It attributed this to low food prices which played a big role in lowering inflation in December last year. "Month-on-month overall inflation fell to 4.5 per cent in December 2017 from 4.7 percent in November 2017. This decline was due to lower food prices reflecting improved supply of key food items, particularly cabbages, Irish potatoes, tomatoes, sugar, and maize flour," CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said. Njoroge, who chairs the committee, said the decrease in food prices outweighed the increase in fuel and electricity prices and the rise in transport costs during the festive season. He also noted that non-food-non-fuel (NFNF) inflation remained below 5 percent which shows that demand driven inflationary pressures remained muted. Njoroge said strong diaspora inflows, resilient tea and horticultural exports and a recovering tourism sector ensured the foreign exchange market remained relatively balanced. He said the current account deficit is expected to narrow to 5.4 percent of GDP this year down from an estimated 6.2 percent in 2017. He said this will largely be influenced by lower food imports and lower imports in the second phase of the SGR project. A steady growth in tea and horticulture exports, strong diaspora remittances and continued growth in tourism arrivals are also touted to lower the current account deficit, Njoroge said. A current account deficit is when a country imports more goods, services and capital than it exports. According to Njoroge, the banking sector remained stable in 2017 despite an expected decline in profitability. He said the sector pulled through despite uncertainties regarding particularly the US economic policies, the post-Brexit resolution and the pace of monetary policy normalisation in advanced economies. Njoroge said average commercial banks’ liquidity and capital adequacy ratios stood at 43.7 percent and 18.5 percent respectively in December 2017. He said the ratio of gross non-performing loans (NPLs) gross loans remained unchanged at 10.6 percent between October and December 2017. "The sector’s return on assets and return on equity reduced to 2.7 per cent and 20.8 per cent, respectively in 2017 from 3.2 per cent and 24.4 per cent in 2016," Njoroge said. Overall, the CBK boss said Kenya’s economic growth averaged 4.7 percent in the first three quarters of 2017 compared to 5.7 percent in a similar period in 2016. He noted that the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) played the biggest role in accelerating the growth. "The economy is expected to pick up strongly in 2018 supported by a stable macroeconomic environment, a resurgent private sector, recovery in agriculture, and sustained public investments in infrastructure," he said. The MPC Private Sector Market Perception Survey conducted in January this year showed an upsurge in optimism by the private sector for the year’s economic prospects. More than 90 percent of the respondents expressed optimism about the projected economic prospects compared to 65 percent in November 2017. "These respondents attributed their optimism to a stable macroeconomic environment, improved business environment and investor confidence, continued public investment in infrastructure, and expected commencement of direct flights to the US," Njoroge said. Kenya’s maiden direct flight to the US is scheduled for October 28. Click here for the latest political news 