Nakuru forward Oscar Ouma will skipper the Kenya Sevens squad at the Sydney and Hamilton legs of the World Rugby Series later this month. Ouma captains the squad in place of Oscar Ayodi, who underwent surgery last month following a knee injury. Menengai Oilers’ Eric Ombasa has been drafted into the squad for the two legs with Quins forward Herman Humwa missing out due to academic commitments. Former skipper Andrew Amonde returns to the side after sitting out of the opening two tournaments due to a hernia injury. Kenya Sevens top try scorer Collins Injera misses out as he recovers from a hamstring tear sustained during the Dubai leg last month. Coach Innocent Simiyu said he is expecting a competitive performance in the two legs. “We have trained well and we are certain the players will give a good performance. Our key focus is to meet our set standards consistently. We have a few injuries which gives an opportunity for the young players, who have earned the right to wear the jersey, to represent the country and keep the pride up there. We know they will make us proud,” said Simiyu. Kenya face Argentina, France and Wales in Pool B at the Sydney tournament. Shujaa are ranked 11th on the log with 11 points from two tournaments. Meanwhile, uncertainty still surround the players’ salaries and allowances for the next couple of months after the termination of sponsorship by Sportpesa early this month. Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela said they are yet to receive any money from the Ministry of Sports despite sending their budget last week. “We haven’t received anything yet and I have instructed some of the board members to chip in something for the team,” said Omwela. Speaking at the Soya Awards on Wednesday, Deputy President William Ruto said they were going to support federations affected by the withdrawal with Sh500,000m to cater for their international assignments. The team depart the country this morning and are expected to arrive in Sydney tomorrow evening. Shujaa squad: Oscar Ouma (Top Fry Nakuru, Captain), Samuel Oliech (Resolution Impala Saracens, Vice Captain), Dan Sikuta (Kabras Sugar), Willy Ambaka (Quins), Andrew Amonde (KCB), Arthur Owira (KCB), Eden Agero (Quins), Brian Tanga (Kabras Sugar), Jeff Oluoch (Menengai Cream Homeboyz), Nelson Oyoo (Top Fry Nakuru), Erick Ombasa (Menengai Oilers), Samuel Ng’ethe (Menengai Oilers), Augustine Lugonzo (Menengai Cream Homeboyz).