Kajiado county warden Dickson Korir on Saturday refuted claims that Maasai
morans have killed 16 Amboseli jumbos that strayed into Imbuko location on
Friday.  Korir, who spoke to the Star, said the only two elephants died.  “We are investigating the cause of death for the two
jumbos found in Imbuko location on Saturday morning. It is too early
to apportion blame,” Korir said.  The warden confirmed the eastern part of the county has
recently seen invasion of jumbos from Amboseli National Park into private
farms where they destroy property and trees.  “This ongoing drought has forced wild animals to wander to private farms in search of
water and grazing,” he said.  He said local morans on Friday
threatened to kill all elephants straying in to their farms, adding that
the wildlife body was determined to participate in moving them back.  “The local people should also appreciate what the KWS is
doing for them in terms of mitigating drought effects in the region by
providing them with water. We repair damaged water wells and provide them with
fuel for pumping water from established boreholes,” he added.  On Friday, an estimated 400 Maasai morans in Imbuko
location, Mashuuru Sub County, were refrained from killing stray elephants by
local deputy county commissioner, Stephen Nyakundi. The men who were armed with spears had vowed to kill all the
elephants estimated to be in a herd of more than 70 jumbos. But before they could attack the first bull said to be leading the
herd in destroying crops and other vegetation in people’s farms, Nyakundi
pleaded with them against doing so. Nyakundi managed to convince the morans against attacking the
elephants but they gave KWS two days to drive the jumbos back to the park. The area borders Amboseli
and the Tsavo National Parks. Nyakundi said he agreed that elephants from
the two national parks had caused damage to property and were a threat to
humans. “When the schools are open like now, these elephants can be very
dangerous to our children. The KWS have agreed to drive the jumbos in the next
two days failure to which the morans said they will kill all of them,” Nyakundi said. Our spot check revealed the KWS officials started arriving in
Imbuko location in the afternoon of Friday to start the exercise, which might
require helicopters so as to beat the time given by the morans.    