The WPP-Scangroup share on the Nairobi Securities Exchange blinked green, after news that its subsidiary, Ogilvy & Mather Africa BV has settled a five year partnership dispute in Nigeria. The firm's share yesterday returned to a month high of Sh18.60 after shedding 27 basis points on Friday. In a media statement, Ogilvy & Mather Africa BV said that it had reached an amicable settlement with the a Nigerian communication agency, Prima Garnet Communications Limited over previous affiliation dispute which was under litigation for several years According to the statement, the two parties yesterday confirmed the dispute settlement agreement which they had applied for in the High Court of Lagos State on December last year. The judge had given both parties two weeks to execute the terms. WPP-Scangroup CEO, Bharat Thakrar termed the settlement as mutually beneficial which provides an opportunity to recommit WPP-Scangroup’s investment into the Nigerian advertising industry. “Nigeria is an important market for our expanding Pan African business. It is imperative that we harness and customize our top-drawer marketing services solutions for one of Africa’s largest and most dynamic markets,'' said Thakrar in a statement. WPP-Scangroup has an existing presence in Nigeria through its public relations and consumer research subsidiaries H+K Strategies Nigeria and Millward Brown Nigeria respectively. Following the settlement, WPP Scangroup is poised to announce a partnership with a local Nigerian firm to pave way for the establishment of the Ogilvy & Mather Africa operations and the group's media operations in Nigeria. In late 2012, Prima Garnet Communications enjoined Scanad Nigeria, a subsidiary of Scangroup, in a legal battle with Ogilvy Africa which it accused of having an interest in the Kenya-based firm and a breach of their exclusive dealership. The court action saw Scangroup business incur a 89.2 per cent drop in profits to Sh43.6 million in six months to June 2013. Scangroup bought 51 per cent Ogilvy Africa in 2010 in cash and stock transactions worth $2.3 million that gave it minority stakes in eight media agencies across South and West Africa including Prima Garnet Communications Limited.      