Education officials in Elgeyo
Marakwet have warned secondary school heads against forcing parents to purchase uniforms from select dealers. Joseph Wamocho, county
director of education, said parents must be allowed to source uniforms from preferred suppliers without any coercion by head teachers. He said the ministry will be on the lookout to ensure they are not asked to buy them at high prices from suppliers hand-picked by principals as form ones report next Tuesday. "Don’t ask
students to pay any fee for school uniforms. Principals should refrain from
involvement on the same. Purchase of uniforms should be dictated by market
prices." Wamocho said security agencies were deployed to monitor and possibly arrest
those involved in the uniforms racket. "Security
agencies will be on high alert to ensure parents are not exploited when buying
uniforms," he said on Wednesday, further asking school heads to implement the government's free secondary education programme without introducing
unnecessary fees. The education boss said
unapproved levies will not be allowed and that disciplinary action will be taken
against heads who will flout the free education guidelines. Wamocho said students joining day schools will only be required to pay an
agreed fee of not more than Sh5,000 for lunch per term. He said the government will provide Sh22,000 cash for every student as
soon as the ministry finishes updating enrollment
data. "We are
processing data so funds are released according to enrollment," he
added. Related: Parents warn schools against illegal fees, praise Matiang'i for reforms Wamocho also
directed principals to stop collecting fees for school projects
without following the due process, which includes consulting widely with parents
and school boards of management. "We will
ensure free education is implemented to the latter by sticking to the fee
guidelines. This will be without addition of a single cent that is not approved by the ministry of
education."  He urged head teachers to ensure that fee arrears are cleared in a structured manner without having to send students home over fees arrears. Also read:  Elgeyo parents protest poor KCSE results, want head teachers moved More on education: New curriculum not hanging in the balance, says Matiang'i Click
here for the latest political news 