Nakumatt’s landlords have said they are no longer interested in having the retailer clear its rent arrears. Instead, they want the firm out of their property. Ailing Nakumatt will know next Friday whether it will be evicted from its countrywide premises after an application by the landlords was heard yesterday. The landlords, through their lawyers, told Justice Fred Ochieng they are seeking an order to be allowed to repossess their premises, “as Nakumatt is unwilling to pay rent arrears”. “We seek leave to repossess our premises — not rent arrears — because Nakumatt has failed to deal with fundamental issues. The landlords should not be used in the proposed merger or administration,” they said. Nakumatt had made an application stating there was an offer by Tuskys  to pay rent for a period of three months starting from March to May. “We’re not certain that we will be paid our rent arrears. Tuskys may discontinue to pay after the three months, as they have no single application on payment of the arrears,” they added. Tuskys merger was only to pay for the months going forward — not the arrears, they said. Nakumatt sought re-entry into the premises as they wanted to continue with business. “Without the premises, there is no business and no income generation to pay the arrears,” it said, adding the business is viable. Last week, the court heard the application for administration by Nakumatt. It will deliver a ruling on January 22. The embattled retailer filed the application in December and sought an administration order after the judge who was hearing the case disqualified himself. Last year, Justice Joseph Onguto dismissed its application, saying he was concerned that the level of indebtedness had not been clearly stated by Nakumatt. “I’m concerned and unable to ascertain if the company will maintain levels of trading as before,” he ruled. Nakumatt had applied for an administration order, proposing the appointment of Peter Kahi of PKF Consulting Limited as an independent administrator to perform its functions in the interests of its creditors. Nakumatt’s lawyer Kamau Karuri said if the company is put under an administrator, it will be able to come back on its feet and pay its creditors “To benefit from liquidation will only be the secured creditors, as opposed to unsecured creditors. We want a solution that will benefit all the creditors alike,” he told court. Nakumatt CEO Atul Shah last year said the enactment of the law severely restricted the supermarket’s ability to access key short-to-medium-term financing that it relied upon to meet its obligations to creditors. He said Nakumatt has made a lot of efforts to recapitalise business to overcome its current financial crisis.