The attack believed to have been carried out by assailants from West Pokot brings the death toll to eight since January 5. Kimoi
Betaki, 63, was shot dead barely
two days after Peter Komen, 50, a fisherman was killed in Arror, Marakwet West
on Thursday. Kerio Valley
belt is a drought-prone region, dominated by pastoralist communities including the Pokot, Tugen, Marakwet and Turkana. “Women and children are spending the nights in caves along the Kerio escarpments. There are fears that bandits will raid the area,” resident Wilson Kiptoo told the Star. Marakwet East police boss Lemmy Njiru said the attackers crossed the border and opened fire on travelers on a boda boda, seriously injuring the woman, before fleeing back to Pokot Central. The attackers did not steal any livestock. Marakwet KNUT treasurer Jeremiah Biwott said teachers, pupils and their parents are fleeing the area for fear of attacks. Tension remains high amid claims that bandits are planning to carry out more attacks in the area. Efforts by governors John Lonyangapuo of West Pokot and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos to restore peace have not borne fruits. The state deployed more than 300 police officers in 2016 and 400 police police reservists in 2017 but peace is yet to be restored. Baringo deputy speaker Makali Selamoi urged youth to stop social media intolerance, saying they are propagating hate on social media platforms, thus fueling tension. Biwott, a
teacher in the Kerio Valley said local teachers are now calling for closure of
schools in the area, noting the attacks happening near schools have disrupted
learning. “I have met
several teachers and they are telling me that schools should be closed because
they are no longer safe for the children and teachers,” Biwott said. He
continued: “There is tension in this area. We are getting reports that bandits
are planning to raid the area. We call on the government to act swiftly to
restore calm.” The attack
happened as deputy speakers from Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo and West Pokot
concluded a meeting to find a lasting solution to the runaway insecurity. Elgeyo
Marakwet deputy speaker Christopher Kibor told elected leaders from the
affected areas to unite in search for a lasting solution to the cross-border
attacks. Baringo deputy
speaker Makali Selamoi urged local youths to tone down social media
intolerance, saying the youths are propagating hate on social media platforms, fueling
tension in the Vallley. Efforts by governors
John Lonyangapuo [West Pokot] and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos
to restore peace have not borne fruits. The state deployed at least 300 police officers in 2016 and 400 police police reservists in 2017 but peace is yet to be restored. 