A form four student, who left home in Embu for Nairobi after Christmas, has disappeared.  Derrick Murithi, 17, left a note telling his parents not to worry because he could take care of himself. He had never been to Nairobi before and has no relatives or known friends in the city, 127 kilometres away from their home in Embu.  “You should not worry about me, I'm now an adult and I can take care of myself. I have gone to Nairobi,” he said in a handwritten note, which his parents found on his bed at night.  Murithi is the firstborn son of former councillor Josiah Kivuti, aka Njamba Mbithi.  They live at Kiarimui village, close to Runyenjes town.  “We don't have any relatives in Nairobi and we are worried because we have called all his uncles, cousins and even checked with all the friends we know. He has not visited any of them,” his father says.  Murithi will be 18 years in August and was this week expected to continue to Form 4 at Gitare Secondary School in Embu, where he is a student.  He does not own a mobile phone and his parents believe he is not on social media platforms like Whatsapp and Facebook. “He is quite reserved, quiet and is in good terms with everyone in the family. In fact, he was very jovial on Christmas Day and spent the day before he left assisting his mother in the house. He was even sent to Runyenjes town and came back,” his father narrated.  He left the compound on Friday, December 29, around 5pm. The father says they became worried when he did not return by 8pm because that was unusual of him. "We began searching the house and found the note on his bed,” he says. His mother, Marion Njoki, says they have reported the disappearance to Runyenjes Police Station and were told the police would investigate. “The schools are opening this week and he is not among those reporting. He is well-behaved. His performance in class average but has been improving,” she adds.  Njoki wants her son to know they are happy with his education and to return home.  Derrick is about 5ft tall and has fair complexion. He was wearing a black trouser and black shirt with white patches, and red sports shoes when he left home.