The price of a 2kg packet of unga could rise to Sh200 by March, millers have said. Currently, it retails at between Sh110 and Sh115. United Grain Millers Association chairman Peter Kuguru yesterday said maize supply from the North Rift is declining. The available maize will only last to the end of February. “We currently have only two million bags of maize at the Strategic Grain Reserve against a monthly demand of three million. This means millers will have to rely on imports from the neighbouring countries like Uganda and Tanzania,” Kuguru said. Read: Cost of living to soar as maize flour prices go up, report shows Some farmers could be hoarding maize in anticipation of better prices. A 90kg bag sells for between Sh3,000 and Sh3,200, but a report released last week by the Famine Early Warning System Network shows the price is likely to increase to Sh3,900 by May. This might push up the cost of living in the next four months. Consumers already have been forced to dig deeper into their pockets to buy basic commodities. Assessment next month Kuguru said even though the National Cereals and Produce Board is buying maize from farmers at Sh3,200, some prefer to sell to traders for Sh2,700 because they will get cash immediately. The board does not pay immediately. Kuguru said maize from Uganda is of poor quality, while that from Tanzania is slightly expensive because of border expenses. Agriculture CS Willy Bett said the current stock of maize is not enough to sustain the country until the next harvest. The NCPB is expected to buy 2.5 million bags of maize from farmers this month. “Most of this maize will be taken up by the large-scale millers, who control about 40 per cent of the market,” Bett said. The rest will go to posho mill owners. Bett said the government is monitoring the situation with a view to institute measures to avoid a crisis. Last year, the government ordered the importation of duty free maize following a severe shortage. “The government will undertake an assessment by mid-February. The outcome of the evaluation will inform action to be taken to ensure the market is stable,” the Cabinet Secretary said. Also read: Millers alone ‘can’t sustain’ the Sh90 maize flour price  Click here for the latest political news