In our view, the process has now taken the direction we anticipated and meets the standard in all curriculum reviews. You do not just do a pilot project, abandon it, then engage gears to roll it out. What we anticipated has taken place and we are in total support of what CS Fred Matiang'i and the Steering Committee have agreed to adopt — that is what is there in terms of roll out. This year, it will cover grades 1 to 3; by 2019 the roll-out will go up to grade 4 and by 2022 we shall do away with the last group of Kenya Secondary Education. It is a perfectly designed approach. Secondly, the reason we have no negative comments is that there's a calculated approach to ensure stakeholders' engagement is enhanced. Teachers' preparedness has also been introduced. What was not clear previously was how teachers were prepared. Some studies have shown 90 per cent of teachers wanted these changes but at least 55 per cent indicated they were not prepared. With this roll out, teachers will have sufficient time to train. Already the number of trained teachers has been in primary section. Issues were also raised about Early Childhood Education and Development teachers. Assurance has been given that they will be taken on board. Therefore, we are seeing a collective approach in moving everybody forward, which is very good. One reason the 8 4 4 system was criticised was the hast with which it was adopted and they old one removed. When it started having problems, there were a lot of mutilations of that system. Therefore, what we have now is not even the original 8 4 4 curriculum. In this new curriculum, you can see universities, teachers, the TSC and ministry of Education, among others, have all been involved. Everyone who should be involved is taking part in the process. This is very good. As for availability of training materials when schools are opening, I think there was lack of communication. The piloting did not happen in all schools. Only 470 teachers from the 47 counties were involved. Clearly not everybody understood the whole thing. Piloting should be in all public schools so teachers have a taste and a feel of the training materials. So to us, there is sense of satisfaction that we are heading in the right direction. The writer is Kuppet secretary general