Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka won a major reprieve yesterday after the High Court said a decision by the NGOs Board freezing his foundation’s bank account was illegal. The court said the board has no powers to freeze bank accounts. Handing the politician a victory, Justice Roseline Aburili said the board, through its executive director Fazul Mahamad, acted outside its core mandate when it ordered the freeze of all accounts belonging to the Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation over money laundering claims. The judge said a court cannot block relevant authorities from probing the organisation, but forbade the board from interfering with the foundation’s day-to-day operations. “An order is hereby issued prohibiting the respondents from freezing the firm’s accounts, deregistering the foundation or infringing on the rights of the applicant’s employees,” Aburili ruled. The board had accused the charitable trust of failing to account for Sh146 million and failing to explain how it had spent Sh50 million it had received from China. On May 2 last year, Fazul directed the Central Bank of Kenya to freeze the foundation’s accounts, pending further instructions. The foundation also faced allegations of operating secret accounts, both local and foreign, contrary to the provisions of the NGOs Coordination Act. Kalonzo went to court, however, protesting against the move, which he said was unlawful and meant to frustrate his political career. The directive affected the foundation’s philanthropic activities, he said. Aburili said the board gave the foundation a certificate of compliance three weeks before the decision was made. “I find an explanation by the board that the clearance letter had been issued, awaiting verification, as dishonest and an afterthought,” she said. The judge said the foundation had a legitimate expectation to continue carrying out its business when the certificate was issued. Aburili also faulted the board for failing to accord the KMF a fair hearing, saying it should have been given at least 14 days to defend its operations. If the board was suspicious of illegal transactions, it should have sought a court order first, she said. The judge said failure to accord the organisation a chance to defend itself violated the rules of natural justice. “Such [a violation] calls for prohibition although a court cannot stop the board from carrying out its mandate,” she said.