The Director of Public Prosecutions yesterday failed to persuade the High Court to increase bail for NASA supporter and businessman Jimi Wanjigi. He has not been charged with anything after police raided his house and said they found firearms. But he was granted anticipatory bail of Sh50,000 on October 17 last year. Justice Chacha Mwita said no basis has been laid down to warrant issuance of such orders. He said the application by the DPP has no merit. “As it stands, the applicant has not been charged and it is not clear whether he will ever be charged,” he said. Police have been after the businessman, a close ally of NASA leader Raila Odinga. In October last year, police raided the businessman’s palatial home in Muthaiga and said they found guns hidden on the ceiling. They also said they found five rifles and 93 bullets from a property linked to Wanjigi in Malindi. During the dramatic raid, Wanjigi allegedly hid in a bunker in his house, only to emerge after police left. He later went to court and success obtained an order barring police from arresting him or destroying more of his property. The court also gave him anticipatory bail of Sh50,000. But the DPP argued the Sh50,000 bail was “inordinately low”, compared to the gravity of the offences being investigated. Through assistant Victor Mule, the DPP and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet also asked the court to order Wanjigi and his wife Irene Nzisa to deposit their passports in court. “Due to the seriousness of the offence allegedly committed, Wanjigi should be ordered to post substantial securities together with sureties,” the lawyer told court. But Justice Mwita said police were just seeking to limit the businessman’s freedom of movement without raising any basis. The judge said it was not clear ifwhether the businessman was being investigated and when he will be charged. He said there is no evidence to suggest Wanjigi will abscond. Wanjigi and his wife are accusing police of violating their rights by forcibly breaking into their home. The couple said the raid was calculated to inflict psychological torture and harm to his family, because he supports NASA. The businessman is being represented by a team including senior counsel James Orengo (Siaya Senator), Julie Sowero, Otiende Amollo and Harun Ndubi. Soweto opposed the prosecution’s applications terming them insincere since police have never questioned Wanjigi.