A less volatile political environment drove up Kenya’s
private-sector activity which improved for the first time in December since
April 2017.  The Markit Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers’ Index
released yesterday shows that private-sector economic activity rose to 53.0. Panelists reported that reduced political tensions and improved
customer demand were the key factors behind greater output. The monthly indicator which is based on activity in the
manufacturing and services sector shows that readings above 50 signal an
improvement in business conditions, while any lower readings indicate poor
performance in the private sector.  The survey shows that this was the fastest expansion since
December 2016 when business activity was reported at 54.1.  The prolonged electioneering period and tighter access to
credit resulted in reduced consumer spending throughout most of 2017. Less cash
movement in the economy consequently led to a decline in output, new orders,
employment and stocks of purchase.  Evidently, the monthly survey shows that private-sector
activity plunged to a record-low in October at 34.4 points.  The seasonally adjusted PMI has been operating below the 50
points line since May, when it posted 49.9. In June, it dropped to 47.3 before
gaining to settle at 48.1 in July.  In August, it dropped to 42 points before shrinking further
to 40.9 in September, from which the health of the Kenyan private sector began
to rebound in November rising to 42.8.  The report cited that a less heated political climate
encouraged greater customer turnout during the period. As per the survey, new
export orders also shot up for the first time in five months indicating more
demand for Kenyan products in international markets.  “In response to greater output requirements -and subsequent
capacity pressures- firms increased their payroll numbers during December,” the
report stated.  The report also indicated higher consumer prices during the
period as a result of increased cost of production.  “Subsequently, firms added to their pre-production
inventories, thereby ending a four-month sequence of depletion. Overall, the
rate of accumulation was the most pronounced since January,” the report stated.
 Stanbic Bank
regional economist for East Africa Jibran Gureishi said going forward the
private sector would recover, backed by increased activity in the agriculture
and tourism sectors.  “Looking ahead, we
remain optimistic that growth will recover over the coming year supported by
the agriculture and tourism sector, while a resumption in public spending will
also add some much needed stimulus,” he said.  In 2017, Kenya’s
private sector was also hit by poor credit access as a result of the interest
rate cap law and a prolonged drought period. 