Fred Matiang'i surprised many Kenyans after he changed his twitter handle minutes after he was retained as the Interior CS. The no-nonsense CS, who was holding the portfolio on an acting capacity, updated his account immediately he was nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. "The Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Interior & Coordination of National Government; and the Acting Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science & Technology – Kenya," the handle reads. On Saturday, the CS thanked the president for retaining him in the position saying he is humbled by the move. "I thank His Excellency for retaining me in his Cabinet and for reassigning my duties. I am humbled by the faith and trust he has bestowed upon me," he said. Matiangi pledged to do his best by the grace of God to contribute to the delivery of the government agenda's. The CS handled the Interior Ministry as he continued to serve the Education docket which is set to be handed to a new person soon. Kenyans on Twitter said they preferred the CS in the Education docket more that at the Interior ministry. "I wish you were retained in the education sector. We needed you more there," @Sam_shokist said. @48WaweruMartin said: "You 're a true hero who knows your area of work! Every ministry you work it excels. Congratulations for your reappointment! Make security department shine most as you have done in education." "We honestly needed you more in education," @MagiWambui said. @WAWA13040 said: "We request Mr President as he makes further changes to retain you in the main Education ministry."  He added: "You have set good strategies you need more time for implementation and review , Good work Fred keep it up." @kiguruwise said: "Dear Mr. @UKenyatta @WilliamsRuto kindly retain Matiangi CS for Education. Let him continue cleaning the mess that was in education sector since independence. How i wish he can streamline it for only 3 yrs." During his address, Uhuru also retained Charles Keter in the Energy docket while Joe Mucheru will still steer the ICT portfolio. Other CSs who will continue with their current jobs are Henry Rotich (National Treasury), James Macharia (Transport), and Read: Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko and Ukur Yatani Also read: Cabinet Secretaries not named in Friday changes to remain in office - State House Click here for the latest political news 