Kenya Under-19 cricket team suffered an eight-wicket loss to Canada in their first warm-up match of the 2018 Under-19 ICC World Cup at Christchurch, New Zealand on Tuesday morning. Kenya, who had earlier beaten the same team by three weeks in Australia on Saturday, were unable to gather any momentum throughout the innings after being sent in to bat. They eventually played into Canada’s hands with a target of 165 runs. Opener Randhir Sandhu made the most of his opportunity—scoring an innings-high of unbeaten 78—as the Americans easily pounced on Kenyan bowling to win the match in 32.1 overs. Sandhu and Emmanuel Khokhar gave the chase an opening stand of 39 runs in 7.2 overs. The dismissal of Khokhar by Maxwel Ager opened up a second wicket stand that yielded 62 runs between Sadhu and skipper Arslan Khan. The two were crafty in their stand—scoring only five boundaries with most of the runs coming from singles. In the entire 13 overs, the two were together and capitalised on gaps in the Kenyan field to win comfortably. Abhishekh Chidambaran, who had conceded 10 runs from his first two overs, ended the stand with the dismissals of Khan. Khan had scored 38 balls off 30 balls, which included three boundaries. Akash Gill joined Khan in the middle as the two took 21 overs to seal the match and avenge on the earlier loss in Sydney. After winning the toss, Kenya gave Rene Were the opening mandate alongside regular opener Aman Gandhi, but the gamble didn’t work as Kenyans were a wicket down after 15 balls when Were was dismissed for a duck. Gandhi (12) and Sukdeep Singh (7) were also dismissed in quick succession to leave Kenya on 22 for 3 after 7.3 overs. Aveet Desai (40) and Thomas Ojijo (10) got the scores to 45 in a stand of nine overs before Ojijo’s stay was brought to an end. Skipper Sachin Bhudia gave Desai the much needed stand and the two got the scores to 88. Desai looked poised on getting half a century but in the 39th over, Khan brought his brilliant knock to an end. The Canadian captain had Desai caught after facing 92 balls which yielded three boundaries. Jasraj Kundi (39) looked good too with the bat with 39 from 55 balls and together with Ankit Hirani (16), Kenya surged to 129 for 7 but a number of poor shot selection saw Kenya lost wickets at regular intervals before finally folding on 164. Kenya are set to play India in their second and last warm up match tomorrow at the same venue. Kenya and all other 15 countries are using the matches to prepare for the 2018 Under-19 ICC Cricket World Cup set to bowl off on Saturday.