City Hall and the Ministry of Water are yet to complete the
drilling of 40 boreholes meant to serve as emergency water
points, almost a year after the project was launched. The Sh200 million project launched by Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and former Water executive Peter Kimorion April 4 last year was to be completed in three
months. The project, which was being implemented by Athi Water Services
Board, was funded by the county government and the ministry. The
boreholes were expected to add 20 million litres to the city. Acting Water executive Mohammed Dagane said 22 have been contracted
already. Sites handover for 21 of the boreholes has been done. He said the 22 contracted boreholes will cost Sh150 million. Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company acting managing director
Nahashon Muguna, in a text message yesterday, promised to respond to
our questions on the matter before 1pm. We, however, did not receive
his response by press time. Water PS Fred Sigor said 25 boreholes have been drilled out of which 21 have been equipped and 5 are operational. He added that power connection is on going for the 16 boreholes that have been equipped but not yet operational. Tanks have been erected in 10 sites while seven sites already had reservoirs. Target completion date is end of Feb 2018. The PS further added that the project was delayed due to challenges faced. In some place like Kibera, water was salty and the special equipment  and processes had to be undertaken purify it. This, he said, took time. He said the Sh200 million budget may not be enough to drill the 40 boreholes as earlier budgeted. "We are actually seeing ourselves doing only 25 out of the planned 40 because we have a fixed budget," Segor said. In November, Muguna said 14 of the 40 boreholes had been drilled
and added that 24 others would be operational in two months. He had said that the implementing agency- Athi Water services
board- had run into challenges in some of the sites, a matter that
affected the initial budget of the project. “They found out that in some areas they needed to dig deeper to
reach the water table,” he said. According to Muguna, the wells had been sunk at Kenyatta
University, Kibera Primary School, Joseph Kangethe, Gikomba,
Makongeni and other areas. But the Star's independent investigations that the project run
into trouble after the county government failed to meet its side of
the agreement. The county was to contribute Sh100 million for the project, while
the Ministry was to provide the rest of the amount. Already NWSC has warned of tighter water rationing in the coming
weeks due to the reduction in water level at Ndakaini dam, the main
reservoir that serves the city. Currently, most estates receive water supply at most most three
times a week while other parts go without the commodity. Residents
have been forced to dig deeper into their pockets to buy water from
vendors.