The weatherman has issued the first warning for a possible heatwave in Kenya. Peter Ambenje said bursts of extreme heat will hit northern Kenya counties this month and could trigger the weather condition. “The expected high daytime time temperatures (30 - 40°C) in Northwestern and Northeastern parts of the country may give rise to heat waves that are a potential health risk,” the head of the meteorological services said yesterday in a month-long forecast. This would be the first time Kenya has experienced a heatwave. Ambenje said drought in these areas will worsen and sandstorms may also occur in some areas. The regions affected by the warning are Moyale, Marsabit, Wajir, Mandera Garbatulla, Garissa Lodwar, Lokichoggio and Lokitaung. Ambenje said the Coast strip will also experience high temperatures throughout the month. A heat wave is a period of abnormally and uncomfortably hot and usually humid weather. Elevated heat can kill when the body is unable to cool itself effectively. Normally, the body can cool itself through sweating, but when humidity is high, sweat will not evaporate as quickly, potentially leading to heat stroke. When there is no break from the heat at night, it can cause discomfort and lead to health problems, especially for the poor and elderly. Last year, the weatherman discounted reports of heatwave in Mombasa but nonetheless advised people to shield themselves from the extreme temperatures. The January weather outlook shows the entire country will remain generally sunny and dry. “A few areas in western Kenya, especially those to the south of the Lake Victoria and the southern parts of central Rift Valley are, however, likely to experience occasional light to moderate rainfall that may occasionally spread to the central region including Nairobi,” Ambenje said. Mt Kenya region is expected to experience generally sunny conditions throughout the month. “However, there is a possibility of one or two days of light to moderate rainfall that may emanate from western Kenya,” the weatherman said. Southeastern lowlands, which include Machakos, Makindu, Voi, Taita, Taveta and the Coastal strip will likely to remain generally sunny and dry throughout the month. Ambenje said water levels in the Seven-Folks hydro-electric power generating dams are likely to reduce due to the forecasted sunny and dry conditions in the River catchment areas. He noted the poor October-December short rains season resulted into poor crop performance over most parts of the country. There was also reduced water resource for domestic use, drinking and sanitation in various parts of the country including the counties in Northern, Northeastern and Southeastern parts of the country.  