Despite Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia deploying inspectors from the state corporations to probe airlines flouting the cargo carriage rules, some of the aircraft have continued to fly with impunity. On Saturday two aircraft, which had been grounded, flew miraa to Mogadishu. They are passenger aircraft. The question many are raising is why the KCAA not enforce the law and deal with the airlines which are risking the prospects of Kenya Airways flying to the US directly? ***** Were there last-minute efforts yesterday to try and get NASA to drop its plan to swear in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka? We are told that some government functionaries were engaged in shuttle diplomacy for most of yesterday with a view to getting NASA to cancel the event. It is not clear what they offered NASA in return, but we hear the Opposition stood its ground and told the emissaries, “No thanks, time for negotiations is up”. ***** A former governor from Central Kenya is a man under pressure. After his attempts to takeover a prime plot in Westlands failed, he went to court with the hope that the court would rule in his favour. But the court shocked him when it threw out the case and slapped him with a huge fine. He appealed only for the Court of Appeal to uphold the lower court’s decision and enhance the fine from Sh30 million to Sh100 million! ***** That the Chinese bugged the African Union Headquarters in Addis Ababa for five years is an issue that has shocked African leaders and AU staff meeting currently in the Ethiopian capital. We are told that the Chinese, who constructed the multi-million dollar AU Headquarters placed hidden microphones and transferred server data to Beijing each night. It was five years before the mics and backdoor access were identified. Algeria has since taken charge of AU cyber security! ***** The nomination of former Kisii Senator Chris Obure as Chief Administrative Secretary in the Cabinet excited worshippers at a local church last Saturday. In his usual style of thanking God whenever he secures a major State job, a delighted Obure was going though the motions in his home village last weekend. Little did he know what awaited him. From one worshipper to the other, the faithful took turns in extensive prayers thanking God for the appointment. “We have been clothed from our nakedness,” worshippers said of the nomination to Uhuru Kenyatta’s second administration. Obure must be a happy man indeed, unless activist Okiya Omtatah blows his balloon.