President Uhuru Kenyatta has finally revealed his Cabinet lineup for the 2017-22 term. There were no real surprises, save for the new post of Chief Administrative Secretary in all ministries. The jury is still out regarding both the efficacy of many of those appointed and the legality of the CAS position. There appears to have been a deliberate attempt to appoint more politicians than technocrats as Cabinet Secretaries. Truth be told, most of the technocrats in the last government were ignorant, naive and clueless when it came to matters of politics. This had the effect of leaving the presidency dangerously exposed politically, with the Deputy President constantly playing the role of firefighter in defence. Matters were made worse by the see no evil, hear no evil and do no evil nature of Chief of Staff and Head of Civil Service Joseph Kinyua. Unlike his predecessors Francis Muthaura and Francis Kimemia, he rarely came out in defence of the presidency. In the Kibaki presidency, Muthaura acted as a powerful bulwark against Opposition leaders, particularly Raila Odinga. Muthaura was so adept at checkmating Opposition moves that they nicknamed him ‘Prime-Minister’. The Opposition eventually lobbied for Muthaura’s removal from office when he was named amongst the ‘Ocampo Six’. The post of CAS appears to have been created to fill the former position of Assistant Minister or Deputy Cabinet Secretary. It is common knowledge that Cabinet Secretaries have been spending inordinate periods of time answering Parliamentary questions at the expense of fulfilling their core mandate of service delivery. As a consequence, the performance of the Jubilee government in its first term has been below par. If this position has been created to improve service delivery and is not a creation to reward political failures or to fulfil campaign promises, then it deserves the support of Kenyans. The new CAS can now bear the responsibility of attending ministerial issues in Parliament, thus freeing Cabinet Secretaries to attend to their core mandate of efficient, available service delivery. President Uhuru appears to be determined to leave a distinguished legacy at the end of his term and has appointed a fairly nationally inclusive team. This is in many ways a good thing, yet achieving that legacy whilst ignoring Opposition leaders may be a tall order as they will remain a thorn in his flesh for the remainder of the term. The leader of the Opposition, Raila Odinga, flourishes in this kind of situation and will continue goading and challenging the President to duels to eternity. A way ought to be found to accommodate and somehow appease the Opposition. Government ought to look at the bigger picture and not look at the Opposition as thirsty power-grabbers. The African Union Obasanjo initiative should not to be ignored. Finally, government in the new term would be well advised to complete existing mega projects that have made our external debt spiral and concentrate on people-oriented issues. Available free health and education top the list. There have been many promises to this effect but more often than not medicine(s) are not available or head teachers charge fees through the back door. Affordable housing and better pay for public service and a reduction in the cost of fuel and electricity would be a definite plus. South Africa has achieved all these admirably and as a consequence her citizenry enjoy a better quality of life. Kenya can and must do better. Better or increased agricultural/dairy/livestock production and storage of produce would result in lower food prices. Once citizens are liberated from the tyranny of the basics of human survival, then they will appreciate government services better and respect leaders. Currently some areas feel that they would be better off without a government due to high of corruption involved in accessing basic services. All eyes are therefore on the President to wage a war on corruption or earn himself the dubious distinction aiding and abetting it.