Despite the 29 per cent subsidy on school fees for boarding schools, parents whose children have been admitted to secondary schools will continue paying extortionate fees for their children’s upkeep. The subsidy largely favours day school students who will not be required to pay any extra sum. The subsidy is equivalent to secondary day-school fee, which is Sh22,244 per student. The first tranche of the Sh29 billion cash has been released to schools. Subsequent disbursements are expected in April and August. Boarding schools Students admitted to national and extra-county schools are required to pay Sh53,554 per year, while those in boarding schools in county and subcounty schools have to pay Sh40,545. Read:Government releases Sh29.5 billion for free day secondary education This is an adjustment from 2016 when national and county boarding schools were required to pay a maximum of Sh66,424 per year, and day schools Sh9,374 per year. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association national chairperson Indimuli Kahi said the charges are attributed to the high cost of running boarding schools. “The cost of maintaining facilities such as dormitories and buying resources needed for the students to be comfortable in schools and paying for bills such as water and electricity is high, thus the amount quoted by the government addresses these expenses,” Kahi said. The amount subsidised by the government is distributed across the three terms and is disbursed in the ratio of 50:30:20. Warning to school heads While visiting schools that began receiving Form One students yesterday, Education CS Fred Matiang’i warned principals over extra charges to cater for expenses not covered by the free secondary education programme. Matiang’i warned head teachers against flouting the guidelines. Denying students an opportunity to study in their schools of choice will lead to disciplinary action. “Principals should not add any extra charges on those who are being admitted to day-wings. It should be absolutely free,” Matiang’i said. National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo urged the government to ensure principals adhere to the government-set school fee guidelines, saying the amount was fair compared to the cost of living. Some parents who spoke to the Star decried the large sums spent on books, uniform and other requirements for the first term. Moses Mulama, whose son was admitted to Alliance High School, said he used more than Sh70,000 to purchase uniform, books and school fees. “The prices of commodities have been hiked, but we have no option but to purchase them so that our children can go to school,” Mulama said. Day-wings opened For the first time boarding schools within Nairobi will have day scholar streams. The opening of day wings is part of the government’s plan to have a 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school. Matiang’i said most of the institutions listed had extra classes to address the increased number of students they were expecting. The schools that will admit the day scholars are Kenya High School, Starehe Boys Centre, Moi Forces Academy, Nairobi School, Lenana School, Pangani Girls High School and Moi Girls Secondary School, Nairobi. Some parents have told the government and school managements to enforce strict measures that will help govern the day wings to prevent indiscipline. Also Read:Free secondary education in January as promised – Uhuru Click here for latest political news      