At least 20 houses have been torched in Marakwet East as villagers avenged the death of a man suspected to have been killed. Burning of houses is a cultural practice used to avenge killings among the Marakwets, they said. The man, 31, was shot by an arrow in Kessom, Kapyego location, on Monday, and died at Kapsowar Mission Hospital in the evening. Kessom assistant chief Edwin Kemboi said the man was shot in the chest by a fellow villager after they disagreed. “The suspect turned himself in at the Kapyego AP camp after committing the offence and the police are still interrogating him,” he said. CULTURE Kemboi said villagers burnt four houses belonging to the suspect’s relatives on Monday night and razed another 16 on Tuesday morning. He said efforts to stop the furious villagers were futile. Marakwet West police boss Apollo Onyonyi, speaking on behalf of his Marakwet East counterpart Lemmy Njiru, said officers have been deployed to stop the arson. He said culprits will be arrested and charged in court. Onyonyi warned residents against destroying property. The aggrieved must follow the law and report to the police, he said. The Kessom incident happened barely two days after residents of Kasui, another village in Marakwet East, torched houses belonging to a killer and his relatives. This came after a drunk man shot his friend dead. LWABREAKERS WARNED Christopher Komen, 27, is said to have differed with Raymond Chesir, 35, before shooting him three times on Sunday. He killed him on the spot at 7.30pm. After news of the killing spread, some youths retaliated and torched the suspect’s house and other houses belonging to his relatives. Marakwet East assistant deputy county commissioner Wilson Tangus said the police arrested the suspect moments later. He said they were looking for the arsonists. Resident Hosea Kanda said the deceased and the suspect were friends. They had been herding their cattle together in Mogil before they went out for drinks in the evening. “The suspect asked the deceased to escort him to his home after drinking, but he refused. That is when he shot him. I don’t know if they had other differences,” Kanda told the Star on the phone. Tangus said, “Police officers are investigating to establish whether the gun used is legal.” Click here for the latest political stories