Jubilee Party officials in Murang'a have suspended the county's party chairman Simon Gikuru following the fracas that marred an MCA's meeting on Friday. Francis Muheria, the current deputy treasurer, was appointed acting chairman as the team formed a 7-member disciplinary team to probe the incident. See: [VIDEO] Fist fights in Murang'a as Jubilee MCAs disagree on assembly leadership Samuel Macharia, the party secretary in the region, said the names of the disciplinary committee were forwarded to the Jubilee party secretary general Raphael Tuju. Macharia further noted that the committee will be charged with the responsibility of handling all disciplinary issues amongst party members in the county. "The committee will not hesitate to take action against any member who engages in gross conduct and violation of party laws such as the violence seen on Friday." Macharia also said during the Saturday press conference that the party has requested Tuju to appoint an official chairman to steer the newly-formed committee. This came a day after two MCAs and a member of the party sustained injuries after a fight erupted during a caucus meeting held in a hotel in Kiambu county. The three were against the change of leadership and were assaulted by scores of youths who are said to have been hired by the MCAs. The meeting had been convened by Gikuru to discuss the party leadership in the county assembly. Some 18 party officials accused the chairman of conferring undue powers upon himself to call for the meeting. They said the same could have been convened by the chairman of the party’s assembly caucus Charles Mwangi, who was also suspended.  Mwangi was sent packing on grounds he has failed to guide the entire caucus and for facilitating an illegal meeting that resulted in the change of House leadership. Macharia said the party will write to the assembly speaker to inform him that the party had suspended the assembly caucus chairman.  He noted that the chaos had portrayed the party negatively and that they had put the measures in place to ensure leaders would not continue to contravene party laws. More on this: Prosecute Murang'a MCAs behind Kiambu hotel fracas, Wa Iria tells DPP Click here for the latest political news  