Kenya Wildlife Service has congratulated the British government on its plan to shut ivory markets in the country. In a statement on Monday, the agency noted this will end illegal trade of ivory and its products. "The ban will obliterate any chances for opportunists who were using the market for antique ivory as a cover for the illegal trade," KWS said. UK’s Environment Secretary Michael Gove said the decline in the elephant population, fuelled by poaching for ivory, shames the current generation.  He vouched for the need for radical and robust "action to protect one of the world’s most iconic and treasured species."  "Ivory should never be seen as a commodity for financial gain or a status symbol – so we want to ban its sale," Gove said. "These plans will put the UK front and centre of global efforts to end the insidious trade in ivory." Read: Britain to end trade in ivory as Kenya keeps up pressure  His sentiments were echoed by UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson who said they will remove opportunities for criminals to trade illegally-poached ivory. "My aim is to make 2018 the year of British leadership in defeating the ivory trade." The official described ivory poaching as an "abhorrent crime" that is "shocking" in the 21st century where the slaughter of thousands of elephants every year is still being witnessed.  "It is mankind’s privilege to share the planet with these wonderful creatures but their treatment is heartbreaking. We are committed to tackling this problem and are playing a key role in building global consensus to stamp out the illegal wildlife trade." Effective January 1, 2018, China banned the mainland domestic sale of elephant ivory and related products, a significant move toward slowing the annual slaughter of the largest land animals on Earth.  The success of the ban will be guaranteed by strong legislation and implementation frameworks that support the intended national and global objectives.  Previously, the UK only prohibited the sale of ivory pieces produced after 1947, a loophole that concerns law enforcement experts. The number of elephants has declined by almost a third in the last decade. Around 20,000 a year are still being slaughtered because of the global demand for ivory. Also read: China's ban on ivory trade comes into force  Click
here for the latest political news  