The National Cereals and Produce Board has assured farmers that their dues will be paid immediately it gets money from the National Treasury. The NCPB has yet to clear a Sh1.2 billion debt owed to North Rift maize farmers. “The board has been consistent in paying money to farmers immediately we receive the money from the government. We have as of today [yesterday] paid Sh5.7 billion to farmers and hope to clear the remaining Sh1.2 billion,” spokesperson Titus Maiyo told the Star. Read: Farmers sell maize to traders at cheap price as NCPB delays pay “This has been a good season with less complaints from farmers — compared to other seasons. We’ve not had many complaints from farmers, compared to past seasons where payments took longer.” Meanwhile, Agriculture CS Willy Bett last week said the country is likely to have a maize shortage by the end of February, but he was quick to add that the government will from March waive duty to enable traders and millers to import more maize to stabilise the local market. He said the current maize stocks in the Strategic Grain Reserve will not be enough to feed the growing population. Last year, Tegemeo Institute said there would be a drop in the country’s maize production from 37 million bags to 32 million. But Bett has said that coupled with various factors, including the Fall armyworm, post-harvest losses, erratic rainfall and the prolonged drought last year, there will be a deficit of 10 million bags, which would be resolved through imports. Read: Second maize dryer in Eldoret catches fire By yesterday, the NCPB had only purchased 2.3 million 90kg bags, against a monthly demand of three million. Bett said they are targetting 2.5 million bags by February, but they have yet to release the current stock detailing what farmers and traders have. “Uganda has a surplus of maize and we’ll be allowing traders and millers to import from Uganda and Tanzania to avert price increases of flour like what was witnessed last year,” he said. Some traders have been importing maize from Uganda through the Busia border, as a 90kg bag of maize in the country goes for between Sh1,800 and Sh2,500. In Kenya, the bag retails for between Sh2,700 and Sh4,500. East African Grain Council executive director Gerald Masila has said they are planning a business-to-business forum in Uganda next month to expose Kenyan traders to the benefits of getting the surplus from the neighbouring country. “The council encourages crossborder trade,” he said. Click here for the latest political news