The Nzomo family funfair saw Samurai recapture the Maria Bencivenga Cup at the Nairobi Polo Club yesterday. Samurai, comprised of team patriarch Raphael Nzomo playing off handicap 2.5, his daughter Hiromi Nzomo (0), sons Jadini Nzomo (-1) and Amani Nzomo (-1) narrowly beat Royal Salute 5-4 in the finals to reclaim the title. Luck wasn’t on Royal Salute’s (captain Vishal Somaia 2, Mike du Toit 1, Louis Romeguere -0.5 and Magda Jurkoweicka -2) side. Even after being awarded a record 11 penalty shots, the scotch whiskey-sponsored squad only converted four and failed to secure any field goals. Once again, Jadini took to man-mark former Nairobi Polo Club captain and two goaler Somaia, and he did his job very well as Amani shouldered the ‘dirty work’ in the defensive role. Jadini opened the scoring three minutes into the seven and a half-minute first chukka. Running to the second goal, Jadini missed a shot five metres in front of goal, his sister Hiromi too missed but their father cleared the mess, giving Samurai a 2-0 advantage. Seconds after the replay, The Nzomos gained possession and Jadini was strategically positioned, 50m to goal for Amani’s neat pass to find him. His shot at goal traveled at a relatively slow pace but Raphael who streamed from centre at a terrific speed connected and scored. However, Roumeguere reduced the gap at the bell when he converted a penalty. Hiromi was on target for her side early in the second period before the two outfits played to a fruitless six-minute period until the end the chukka. After the breather, Royal Salute piled pressure on Samurai but father and his children pushed for a foul to be awarded a penalty which Jadini slotted in. Somaia almost replied through a 60 yards dead ball shot but Hiromi blocked it in front of goal and launched an offensive stream that ended with du Toit bringing the game to 5-2. Samurai played to a barren fourth chukka as Royal Salute piled misery on them. Captain Somaia gave Jadini a hard time marking him and managed to notch in a double, but the team’s efforts were not adequate to win them the title as the duel ended 5-4.