Tribalism is as racist as President Donald Trump’s shithole comment. And the leaders who deceive us in the name of nationalism and African pride do not mind using tribe when it suits their needs, which is often. In the West, the word tribe is representative of savagery and primitivity. Yet in our country, it is the basis of “leadership” or politics. Belonging to the right tribe at a particular time can mean occupying the House on the Hill regardless of your integrity (or lack of it). Our politicians exploit the tribal card at every opportunity they get. They use their tribes as political bargaining chips. Our political demigods auction us to those who will do their bidding and grant them power, be it financial or political, regardless of whether those they support benefit from these arrangements. The irony lies in the ordinary mwananchi out there hating and sometimes even killing the other because of tribe. Reason being? They belong to the enemy tribe. Heck, we won’t even marry the people we love because they belong to the wrong tribe. Yet, looking at the people who decide for us which tribe is currently considered the enemy, they do not mind marrying into and from “our enemies”. In 2002, the Kikuyus and the Luos were bedmates as they sought to send the oppressive Pressident Daniel Moi, who is a Kalenjin, home. Then, the Kalenjins were “the enemy”. This so-called enmity went on to 2007 and led to one of the country’s darkest moments in history. Fast forward to 2013 and 2017, and these two rivals are suddenly bosom buddies. The Luos were now the common enemy. The chances of this newfound love surviving 2022 are minimal. Why? Because, once more, our leaders will sit and decide for us who is the enemy this time round. The evils of Jubilee thrive today mainly because of tribalism. Mention any one wrong done by Jubilee and the attention is drawn from the act to your name and how much it disqualifies you to comment on anything the government does. If you are from the Jubilee friendly tribes, you will be silenced with the phrase, “Choices have consequences”, and how ineffective it was or how elections are about numbers — the Tyranny of Numbers. The pro-Jubilee will immediately label you a traitor while the anti-Jubilee will decide that you voted them in, so you have no right to question anything. Being the sycophants they are, the political class does not miss the opportunity to hide under the claim, “My tribe/community is being targeted”. They shamelessly steal from public coffers and hoard the loot, not for their tribesmen but their families. Our leaders (I feel pained referring to them as leaders; nothing they have done qualifies them to that title) use us as bargaining chips in their unquenchable quest for power. Take, for instance, the political elite from areas considered marginalised such as Northeastern. These regions remain pro-government, yet the state has not in the past addressed their problems. They promote clannism yet it is undemocratic. The leaders from these areas are elites who prefer the status quo. With their communities marginalised, they stand out, for instance, as the only CS from community X. Based on this they use negotiated democracy for their gain. The Kalenjins continue to suffer from high poverty rates despite having leaders in government for over six decades. Their leaders are still selected for them and the corrupt rigorously defended. The Kikuyus, who proudly claim to defend “uthamaki” can trace their woes to the tribal leaders they have. The level of poverty in some parts of Central Kenya is alarming. Currently, learning has been affected in some regions of Nyandarua since some families cannot even afford a meal a day. Odingaism is one of the reasons that Nyanza’s development is slow, despite the available resources in the region. Yet you cannot convince the residents that their tribal leaders do not care for them and they should try alternative leadership. The situation is not made easier by the disillusionment amongst honest Kenyans about the helplessness of the issue. The rational Kenyans are forced to choose between two evils based on the tribal divide. There is a prevailing feeling that it is hopeless to get a good alternative. The irony, however, comes in when a peasant teacher in Kiambu thinks he has more in common with President Uhuru Kenyatta as opposed to sharing common problems with a Luo colleague. Such is the mentality that politicians have exploited. It is time Kenyans woke up and realised their tribe is only important in providing them with a heritage they can enjoy. No tribe is the other’s enemy, and none has caused the suffering of the other. We should take lessons from the doctors in their unity of purpose. They had legitimate issues that they needed to be addressed. The government, as usual, decided that looking into the grievances raised by the medics would save the lives of ordinary Kenyans and decided it was not worth it. It would mean a few individuals responsible for oiling their campaign machine would miss out on the massive income from the privatisation of the health sectors. Kenyans could die in their hundreds. What were a few deaths compared to the billions the few make? It was propaganda time. The pay issue got to Kenyans. The mention of the union’s secretary general’s name suddenly caused a shift on the ground. The strike was turned political. The government tried to divide the union along tribal lines. The leaders would not budge. The only tribe they knew is their profession. My proudest moment was watching a Korir team up with an Olunga as they sought better lives for Kenyans. But who are we as Kenyans? We could not support people who were fighting to save our health sector because of tribe.  Wachira is a communications strategist