A rowdy group invaded Rongo's CDF office on Wednesday demanding removal of officials who supported former MP Dalmas Otieno. Otieno vied independently on August 8 and lost to ODM’s Paul Abuor. Campaigns were marred by violence by people who pledged loyalty to ODM leader and NASA principal Raila Odinga. The protesters further accused receptionists Peter Osodo and Nancy Akinyi of sabotaging work by leaking information about the office to rivals, for use in social media attacks. “We have been treated to an online onslaught with the composition of CDF officials being leaked online. We want the two out." The receptionists, who locked themselves up in the office, said they were rightly in office since the proper transition process was not followed. “We are in office since we have not been paid since August last year. We will quit after proper communication and remuneration,” Osodo told the crowd. He and his colleague denied the sabotage allegations and threatened to take legal action against the protesters, saying they personally knew some of them. They noted the political season was over and asked the youths to embrace their rivals for the sake of development. In an address to the press after the chaos, Rongo constituency fund manager Enock Nyasende said Osodo and Akinyi will get their dues from the CDF board in Nairobi. “We urge the youths to remain calm as all legal processes for transition are yet to be followed. The process has been hampered in most boards in the country." But Rongo CDF chairperson Morine Auma denied claims of tension at the office saying the protesters overreacted and that the transition process was smooth. Auma further said the receptionists were given termination letters and that they would leave in no time. “Their terms in office ended ... their positions will be soon be advertised. The issue is not political ... they are allowed to apply for the positions in the new term." She said all vacant posts will be advertised and that the hiring process will be transparent and based on merit. "Applicants will be considered regardless of their political affiliation." Rongo MP Paul Abuor was not immediately available for comment. Click here for the latest political news  