The majority of Kenyans say President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration will perform poorly in the war on corruption, but hope the high cost of living will be lowered. In their expectations for 2018, 44 per cent of respondents in a survey feel the Jubilee administration will do worse in combating corruption, while 38 per cent believe it will improve compared to last year. According to the survey released by Ipsos, Central has the highest cost of living at 35 per cent. The study shows 28 per cent of Jubilee supporters interviewed believe the high cost of living is the main problem facing the nation compared to NASA’s 31 per cent. High cost of living, hunger, unemployment, poverty, crime, corruption and poor roads infrastructure are some of the key issues the respondents want Uhuru to tackle in his second and final term in office. The majority of NASA supporters interviewed say the high cost of living has been one of the most serious problems facing the country, whereas their Jubilee counterparts have a contrary opinion. “Perhaps most striking, Kenyans across the political divide largely share the same concerns about the status of the economy. But this is less evident in terms of political alignment,” reads the survey. It was conducted between December 20 and 22.  The study shows Coast is the most corrupt at six per cent, while Northeastern leads with ethnic tensions at seven per cent. The majority of respondents – 62 per cent – feel Kenyans will adhere more to the rule of law, while 17 per cent feel the situation will worsen. “Since the data was collected, several developments have occurred whose impact may not be reflected in some of the results reported in this survey,” read the study released by Ipsos lead researcher Tom Wolf. The survey also shows 57 per cent of respondents are optimistic the country’s political climate will improve while 24 per cent think it will get worse compared to last year when the country held two presidential election. NASA leader Raila Odinga recently said corruption has over the years been an impediment to better governance. He has called for structured dialogue to end electoral injustices. “Kenyans are eagerly waiting for the naming of the additional members of the President’s Executive team,” he said.  