The Kikuyu community will back Deputy President William Ruto in his 2022 Presidential ambition, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has reiterated. Kuria on Monday said the Mt Kenya region will not betray the DP as he has always supported President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kuria told the Kalenjin community not to be worried over claims that the region has a tradition of not backing other Kenyans for the top seat. “We have had the very difficult year 2017 politically but we thank God that its over and we will not have the same problems in Kenyan again this year,” he said when he joined residents in Eldoret to usher in the new year. Read: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate He said the common belief that Kikuyus, the Embu and Merus will later abandon DP Ruto was not true because they had already decided that come 2022 they would back him to succeed President Uhuru. “On behalf of the people of Mt Kenya, I want to thank you for the support you gave President Uhuru in two elections last year. We guarantee the DP Ruto our support in 2022. Our support for him is like a cheque that we have already written and signed ready for banking”,  Kuria said. He said following the conclusion of the last election, the Kikuyu community was already doing a countdown as they wait for 2022 to back DP Ruto. “That political cheque for DP Ruto is already written and I am the one keeping it safe for him,” Kuria said. He accused the opposition NASA leader Raila Odinga of rejecting provisions in the constitution he fought for. “Instead of fighting for national unity, they are now talking of secession and resistance. That will not work for them but if they want they can go ahead and do so,” said Kuria. He said Raila had lost in the previous elections and even if he decides to vie against the DP in 2022, he would still not win. “God should give him long life so that he will be able to see William Ruto inspecting a military guard of honour as head of state”, said Kuria.  Present were Governor Jackson Mandago and more than 10 MPs from the North Rift. Mandago and the MPS  called for unity and peace in the New Year and that the country should start a new chapter after a difficult 2017 political year. The governor said the New Year would be a period for youth in his county to benefit from several programmes he will unveil. “This 2018 is the year of youth in our county”, he said.  He announced that the first 600 youth would be put on a paid-up internship programme within the county departments and in other private sector areas.  The governor also announced that youth groups will receive loans to engage in business at a five percent interest. Also read: Ruto’s 2022 bid in doubt as he faces mutiny in Mt Kenya   Click here for the latest political news