Attorney General Githu Muigai wants the Chief Justice to constitute a three-judge bench to hear the constitutionality of the People’s Assemblies that have been passed in 14 counties. Charles Mutinda, acting for the AG, told Justice John Mativo that they intend to convince the court to recommend the file to be heard by a bench. Mativo directed, however, that they appear in court today morning to argue their case. Mutinda asked the court to remove the Mandera county assembly from the petition, saying they wrongly put them in the case, as they have not passed the motion in their assembly as alleged. Similarly, the court declined to include the Litigants Association of Kenya in the case. It said they have not convinced the court why they should be part of the case, adding the AG represents all Kenyans in all legal cases. The AG has challenged the constitutionality of the People’s Assembly motions that have been passed by county assemblies in the NASA strongholds. He wants the court to quash all resolutions passed by the 14 county assemblies, arguing the People’s Assemblies are established against the Constitution. “The Constitution has established structures and institutions within which any grievances can be addressed within the law. Any other mechanism other than that which is provided in the law is an attempt to overthrow the Constitution and is null and void,” the petition reads. Muigai also wants the court to issue an order prohibiting any other county assembly from passing a motion establishing the People’s Assembly. He argues that the People’s Assembly is not envisaged by the architecture and framework of the Constitution. The case will be consolidated with a similar matter that was transferred from the High Court in Kitui, which had issued orders restraining the county assemblies from passing the motion. This was after all the parties agreed that the matters are of similar nature. The AG requested for the file to be transferred to Nairobi. Meanwhile, the case that was filed by Bunge la Mwananchi to stop NASA from swearing in Raila Odinga as the People’s President will be mentioned on February 19. This is after their lawyer told the court they had managed to serve NASA on Monday.