Police bantamweight Benson Gicharu has been named the captain of the national boxing team to the forthcoming first Indian Open Championship slated for January 28 to February 1 in New Delhi. Kenya will enter a full squad of 10 men and five women. The team will be under the tutelage of coach Patrick Maina, who will be assisted by KDF head coach Sammy Magima, David Munuhe of Police, Black Moses Mathenge and William Okumu of Kongowea. SK Macharia will serve as team manager. Gicharu, who defeated Isaac Meja of KDF 3-0 in the recent trials, will be assisted by light heavyweight Nickson Abaka, who has been picked as the Commonwealth Games captain. “I feel honoured and duty bound to captain the Kenya Hit Squad in the run up to the Commonwealth Games. I have a feeling that our boys and girls will do us proud,” said Gicharu. Mohammed Ali from Kongowea is the new face in the men’s team replacing Simon Mulinge of KDF. The Kongowea boxer took over the national team slot when Mulinge couldn’t play in the recent trials after sustaining a deep cut on his eyebrow. Stylish Nick Okoth (fly) is also in the mix and so are Shaffi Bakari (light fly), ELly Ajowi of Police and Edwin Okongo of KDF. Meanwhile, national team coach is happy with the progress of the women’s team which is being led by Olympian Elizabeth Andigo. The national team is shaping up at Police Deport and departs to New Delhi on January 26. The tournament has attracted top boxing nations including Kazakhstan, Cuba, Tunisia and Morocco. Kenya will be using the event as the final build up towards the Commonwealth Games slated for Gold Coast. “I am happy with Andiego at the moment although she never played in the trials due to lack of an opponent,” according to Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) chairman John Kameta. Andiego became the first Kenyan woman to play at the Olympics when she was handed a wildcard for the London 2012. Kameta added that Gicharu and Abaka will provide the much needed experience in the team given their distinguished service to the nation. Kameta added that they have been given assurance from the Ministry of Sports that funds will be availed to the BAK’s bank account in due course. “We have held talks with the ministry and they have assured us of our travel plans,” said Kameta. India Open bound squad: Light-fly: Shaffi Bakari (Police), Fly: Mohammed Ali (Kongowea), Bantam: Benson Gicharu (Police), Light: Nick Okoth (KDF), Middle: Edwin Okongo (KDF), Light welter: Victor Onyango (KDF), Welter: Jacob Kimathi (Prison), Middle: Edwin Okongo (KDF), Light heavy: Nick Abaka (KDF), Heavy: Elly Ajowi (Police), Super-heavy: Fredrick Ramogi (KDF); Women: Light welter: Lonah Kusa (NRB); Fly: Christine Ongare (Nrb), Veronica Mbithi (Dallas); Middleweight: Elizabeth Andiego, Elizabeth Akinyi.