Kakamega County Government has refuted claims that they have hired former Harambee Stars and Tusker FC forward Allan Wanga as sports director. Gender and sports minister, Robert Sumbi, said he is not aware of such a move and the information is not correct.  He said the appointment would not have been possible without following the right procedure—in this case, going through the county’s Public Service Board “As the minister in charge of sports, I’m not privy to such information. There are procedures to be followed before such an appointment. As for now, I am not aware of such an appointment and I’m not in a position to comment,” The CEC stated.  The Kakamega County human resource Officer, Laurence Omuhaka, also refuted the claims. “Wanga has not been appointed as a director of sports in Kakamega County, but it is true that he is set to join Homeboyz as a player. The County Public Service Board will soon take him through a suitability interview and if he is found suitable he may be offered some job commensurate to his education and experience. Please note that nobody can be employed without passing through the CPSB and Wanga is therefore not an exception,” Umukaka stated. Information has been rife on social media that Wanga had been appointed the Kakamega County sports director, a role that would have seen him manage the development of sports in the county. Wanga was recently released by his Tusker after his contract expired last month. The information on social media had also claimed that Wanga was will to see off his career at Kakamega Homeboyz before retiring. Wanga was quoted thanking Kakamega County governor Wycliffe Oparanya for offer. “I am very happy and feel privileged to land this role at the County. It is an honour for me and comes in the line in which I am very passionate about. It has always been my ambition to serve my community and this is a great chance for me,” he was quoted as saying.  “We met with the Governor (Wycliffe Oparanya) sometimes last month where we had these discussion and I could not decline the offer. Hopefully, I will use my experience and passion to help grow sports in this county,” he added.