The Judiciary plans necessary reforms to avoid unnecessary imprisonment of petty offenders. Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday said he will work with the government to decriminalise certain offences such as loitering. He said such offences are petty and should not warrant jail-term convictions. This will also help ease congestion in prisons, Maraga said. The number of people jailed for petty offences is alarming, he said during the launch of the Criminal Justice Committee at the Supreme Court, Nairobi. The 34-member committee will comprehensively review the whole criminal justice system and forward its recommendations before December. It will cover arrests, investigations, policing, prosecution, adjudication, sentencing, incarceration, aftercare and reentry. Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu, Attorney General Githu Muigai and Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru accompanied Maraga. Waiguru, who is the deputy chair of the Council of Governors, welcomed the move and said the counties will work with the Judiciary to have a reformed criminal justice system. Muigai said the government will review substantive criminal offences in a reform bill. “There is a great need to urgently correct some of the embarrassing features within the justice system,” he said. Maraga said the current legal framework does not meet the needs of the young generation, who find themselves in conflict with the law as they socialise and earn a living. “We’ve established that 75 per cent of those sent to prison are aged between 18 and 35. The majority are poor and their only offence is lack of business licence or being found drunk and disorderly,” he said. It is worth noting that there is a low rate of prosecution of serious offences, the apex court president said. Only five per cent of sexual offences have been determined, with offences such as organised crimes and capital offences recording the highest acquittals and withdrawals, he said. This means freedom is being procured at the expense of justice. Maraga expressed concern that more children are being remanded in adult prisons, instead of children’s remand homes, and their cases take abnormally long periods before they are resolved. “Detention conditions are very inappropriate, especially to people living with disability, pregnant and nursing mothers and the elderly. Most prisons are congested, with prisoners being clamped together,” he said. Click here for latest political news