Hundreds of residents of Kijiji slum in Lang'ata were on Sunday night left homeless after a fierce fire destroyed their homes. Star reporter Rhoda Odhiambo who was on the ground said firefighters from the Nairobi fire brigade arrived at the scene but ran out of water. "The fire is continuing to spread and it's spreading really fast. Lang'ata is in total blackout because the lights were switched off at around 9:30 pm," she said. Odhiambo said some residents were trying to salvage their property although there were fears that people could be trapped in some of the houses. Kijiji slums is opposite the upmarket Southlands estate.  Residents and fire fighters are overwhelmed by the fire at Kijiji slums in Lang'ata /RHODA ODHIAMBO "The fire has spread and it has even affected power poles. Explosions can be heard from where I am and I think those are gas cylinders exploding," Odhiambo added. National Disaster Management Unit Deputy Director Pius Masai told the Star on phone that four fire engines were trying to put out the fire. He said it was impossible to tell as yet if anyone had been injured or if people were trapped in some of the houses. "The fire is big and the fire engines are not enough, those that came ran out of water. We are waiting for extra engines from NYS. We are also appealing for more engines from agencies like the KDF, G4S." He went on: "People are saying there could be people (who are trapped) inside but the fire is too big to establish what has happened inside."  Residents fetch puddle water to try and put out the fire. /RHODA ODHIAMBO Residents gave conflicting accounts of what may have started the fire that broke out around 8:30 pm. "This fire started from inside one of the houses. I don't know whether it was started by an exploded gas cylinder or a faulty power cable. When I got out of my house, three houses were already on fire. Fire engines arrived about an hour later," Duncan Kivuva said. "I was on my way home then I heard that there was a fire, when I got here I found my house on fire," another resident, Pauline Filani said. "I have rescued all my children, one aged one year and seven months and another one who is in standard eight. But I don't know who has taken the young one," a mother said. Area MP Nixon Korir told NTV on phone from Mombasa that the fire spread so fast because fire engines could not access the area. "It's a big problem and I talked to the governor (Mike Sonko) an hour ago and we are trying to find extra fire fighting machines because those from the County government that are there are overwhelmed and they have run out of water," Korir said. "What we need to do is to prepare in advance. We cannot have firefighting engines coming from the CBD. The county government needs to prepare," he added.  Fire destroys houses at Kijiji slums, Lang'ata, January 28. /RHODA ODHIAMBO The MP, who said he was attending a parliamentary committee meeting in Mombasa, said he will fly to Nairobi on Monday morning to asses the situation and see how the affected families will be assisted. "I hope and pray that we don't lose any life so that we can help them tomorrow (Monday)," Korir said. More to follow... Click here for the latest political news 