On Tuesday night, Members of European Parliament debated the EU Observer Mission
report on Kenya’s 2017 elections. The
MEPs discussed the political situation in the country noted that sharp divisions
following last year's elections still persist and the country remains divided.
This is the situation that remains. In fact, releasing the final report Marietje Schaake, the EU
EOM Kenya 2017 chief observer, at a press conference in Brussels said,
"The general election and later fresh presidential election brought many
disappointments and confrontations”. She urged Kenyan leaders and international partners to
prioritise issues such as stronger rule of law, separation of powers, respect
for independent institutions and the rights and freedoms of Kenyan people. While I have in the past written, questioning the ability and
commitment of international election observer missions in ensuring free and fair
elections and strengthening democracy in Africa, Schaake report raises important issues
that need to be fixed ahead of the 2022 election, which is already being
discussed. Key among them are respect for the rule of law, independent
institutions — the IEBC and Judiciary — and human rights. It is an open secret that soon after the unprecedented
nullification of the August 8 presidential election, President Uhuru Kenyatta
referred to the Supreme Court justices as wakoras and promised to “revisit” the
determination. He was joined by other Jubilee politicians, among
them Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, who happens to be an officer
of the law. As former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga said in a past article published in this paper, the Judiciary
continues to endure vicious attacks on its independence whenever elections
take place: It is the punching bag, just as the electoral commission. This has to
stop if decisions as the Maraga’s on September 1 are to be made based on
evidence presented in court. Second is respect for the rule of law and human rights. Some of
us raised concerns over the conduct of the police as early as during Cord’s
anti-IEBC demos, in which may opposition supporters were clobbered and dozens
shot dead by officers. I have always argued that the role of the police is to
maintain law and order, protect lives and property. They can’t do that by
committing the very crimes they are supposed to prevent. And the attitude we saw during anti-IEBC demos were repeated and
intensified after the August 8 election and during and after the repeat
presidential election. According to a joint report by the Amnesty
International, police killed at least 33 people, possibly as many as 50, and
injured hundreds more in some parts of Nairobi in response to protests
following the August 8 election. Many others were killed during and after the
repeat polls. This came up in the MEPs debate, and a United Nations agency had earlier discontinued Sh800 million financial support to the Kenya Police over brutality during the election. The funds are channeled to the police reform basket through the UN
Office on Drugs and Crime and other aid agencies of US, UK, Norway,
Netherlands, Britain and Germany. Regardless of the political affiliation, these are issues Kenyans
must address if we are  to move on as a nation.