A public inquest to establish the killers of baby Samantha Pendo will start on February 16 when the case will be mentioned at a Kisumu magistrate’s court. A file was opened at the court as ordered by former DPP Keriako Tobiko. He directed that senior officers in command during the incidents to face disciplinary action. The DPP ordered compensation of the bereaved family for emotional and physical torture experienced after the attack on the six-month-old baby. The case was to be mentioned on Monday before chief magistrate Julius Ng’arng’ar but was moved to February by resident magistrate Beryl Omollo. The inquest was directed by the office of the DPP after investigations by police failed to bear fruit. Ipoa recommended disciplinary action against Kisumu county commander Titus Yoma, OCPD Kisumu East Christopher Mutune, DAPC Kisumu Central Benjamin Koima and OCS Kisumu Central John Thiringi. “The National Police Service Commission should institute disciplinary proceedings against the commanders in question for being negligent and particularly for failing to coordinate the police operation, making it difficult for the identity of the police officers who committed criminal acts to be known,” the report said. Baby Pendo died in August last year after she was reportedly clobbered on the head by police in her parents’ house. The officers were quelling chaos that rocked the lakeside city after President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner of the presidential elections. In the case, 21 witnesses are set to testify, including the baby’s parents Joseph Abaja and Lenser Achieng. Others are nine civilians, including their neighbours. Top four officers within the county and others who will testify include General Service Unit officers who were deployed at Nakumatt, Kachok and areas bordering Nyalenda estate. Two others to testify are attached to the Recce Company Ruiru. Also to testify is Nzioka Mutune, a GSU commander attached to the headquarters, and who was the lead officer for all the GSU platoon units deployed in Nyanza in the period. All the witnesses have recorded statements and are waiting to appear in court.