Transport CS James Macharia has deployed investigators to probe claims some aircraft operators at Wilson Airport and the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport violate cargo carriage rules. He made the decision following exclusive reports by the Star that exposed the illegal practice that has the potential to hurt Kenya Airways’ expected direct flights to the US. The International Civil Aviation Organisation will be in Kenya for an audit in July, amid concerns the country may fail and get blacklisted like Uganda. The ICAO banned all planes registered in Uganda for safety reasons. Kenya could face the same problem if the current situation is not corrected. Any blacklisting will automatically affect Kenya’s planned launch of direct flights to the US. Every aircraft has its own operation guidelines contained in the Aircraft Flight Manual. But some Air Operator Certificate holders who provide freight services locally and in the region have blatantly disregarded regulations that guide cargo carriage. “This is a serious matter and I want to get to the bottom of it so we can take decisive action,” Macharia told the Star yesterday. The CS said the investigators were expected to start work yesterday and present their report in two weeks. “We are taking these reports seriously and any operator who will be found culpable will face the law,” Macharia said. The operators remove seats from passenger aircraft and load cargo without following the procedure. Last week, Kenya Civil Aviation Authority director general Captain Macharia Kibe issued a statement denying the reports, which he himself had warned airlines about last year. In a letter addressed to airlines dated December 18 last year, Kibe said it is an offence for airlines to use passenger flights to carry cargo. “It has been observed there has been disregard of the law and the regulations as regards the carriage of cargo by aircraft by Air Operator Certificate holders that provide freight services,” the letter in possession of the Star reads. The worst-hit are the airlines that ferry passengers and cargo, especially miraa, to Somalia and they include Capital Airlines, Skyward Aviation, Bluebird Aviation, Silverstone Airlines, Buffair Airlines, Rudufu Airlines and Bushair Services.