Over 16,000 farmers who supply tea leaves to Kiptagich factory, which is owned by the Moi family, have protested after the firm paid them Sh6.80 bonus per kilo. They complained after KTDA, which is located two kilometres from the factory, paid those attached to the firm Sh34 for every kilo that they supplied during the same period. The group asked Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to intervene and pay them, further threatening to campaign against the legislator should he run for the presidency in 2022. The hundreds of locals met at Kiptagich chief's office on Thursday and told Kuresoi South MP Joseph Tonui and area MCAs to get a solution to the problem. Edna Bii, a farmer, said they are also given fertiliser at Sh3,600 per bag while KTDA offers its farmers the same quantity for Sh1,900. Joseph Mutai, another farmer, said the firm has over time frustrated them through poor pay, lack of payment slips, nepotism, and ethnicity. The locals accused the factory of not paying them bonuses for 2016 and 2017. "We will burn the lorries that ferry tea leaves to Mombasa since our children have not reported back to school," one John Koech said. The factory is accused of underpaying locals and apportioning better rewards for employees who hail from Baringo. Four MCAs Anthony Rotich (Keringet), Rose Mutai (Kiptagich), Wesly Martim (Amalo), and Caroline Kilisha (nominated) attended the meeting. The lot, who are members of the Committee on Agriculture at the Nakuru county assembly said the factory risks losing the licence to operate in the county. The locals said they will stage protests in the push for the factory's closure if the managers do not respond to their complaint in seven days. "We will hold protests to push for the factory's closure and decamp to KTDA," one of the farmers said. Kiptagich MCA said they will rally all farmers to exit the factory if the "oppression" persists. "We will make sure the factory is closed and we go to KTDA," Rose Mutai said. Rotich, for his part, accused the factory owners of being mean since they have not sponsored any needy children from the region. "Their failure to initiate even one CSR project is loud enough that the factory is robbing locals," he said. Kilisha asked the company to organise a meeting to address the farmers' plight. Peace chair Joseph Sang said there is a farmer who died recently as he could not get money to go hospital yet the factory owed him Sh2.5 million. Area CDF chair Wilson Leitich said: "We are aware that Gideon Moi is now heading the factory and if he continues like this, he will mess up with the legacy of Mzee." Kiptagich chief Joseph Kimetto claimed that one old man collapsed after checking that his payment was not reflecting in his bank account. MP Tonui asked the firm's management to be fair to employees and build a school, a hospital, and a church for the employees who reside within the estate. Stanley Kirui, general manager Kiptagich tea factory, said farmers were being underpaid even before he started working at the firm two years ago. "Most of our machines are obsolete and we used the profits to order a new boiler so as to minimise the high cost of fuel," the manager said. Kirui said the factory has generated the payment slips but were not handed to the farmers. He pledged to communicate the farmer's grievances to the top management. Click here for the latest political stories