To the
thousands of residents around Boni forest in Lamu county, nothing demonstrated
the failure of the war on al Shabaab more than the invasion last Tuesday by more
than 100 heavily armed insurgents. Pitching tent
at Ishakani Village in Lamu East, they preached radical teachings for an hour, hoisted
their flag at a deserted local police station, and strolled back to their
hideouts, sparing lives they could have taken at will. And this three years
after Operation Linda Boni was launched to wipe them out! Tough-talking Interior
CS Joseph Nkaissery has since died and been replaced by the even more
tough-talking Fred Matiang’i, but the initial optimism that terror attacks and
raids would finally end are dead and gone. More than two
years down the line, hundreds of civilians and security officers are still
dying at the hands of al Shabaab, despite constant assurances from Linda Boni
operations director Joseph Kanyiri that the operation is succeeding. The
militants have now changed tack and openly attack security vehicles and
security camps. In July last
year, more than 3,000 residents of Jima, Poromoko, Pandanguo and neighbouring
areas in Witu division fled to IDP camps in Katsaka Kairu and Witu AIC church,
following the killing of nine people. Kanyiri was
quoted as saying, “The IDPs should stay put. We shall ensure they are taken
care of and also protected while there. In the meantime, we are still clearing
their villages of terror elements so they can finally come home to a safer
environment.” In August,
Kanyiri gave a 48-hour ultimatum for those staying close to the Boni forest to
vacate and pave way for the bombing of the Boni forest to destroy al Shabaab
hideouts. It is, however, not clear whether or not the bombing ever took place. Kanyiri said
at the time, “With the kind of bombing that will happen, it will be too hot for
anyone to stay inside. They will have no option but to come out, and then we
will be waiting. They have done enough.” Then in
September, Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said the operation had been
80 per cent successful, since it had infiltrated al Shabaab’s modus operandi
and left security forces a step ahead of the terror group. WAR A FAILURE? Questions linger
on what exactly the Linda Boni operation has achieved, since the militants seem
to be getting bolder by the day. Kanyiri has often
said security units have destroyed al Shabaab hideouts and camps inside the
Boni forest, but has always remained tight-lipped on the number of al Shabaab
militants killed or those arrested and prosecuted, if any. This has fed
speculation that the terror group is giving the soldiers a rough time, having
outwitted them on many occasions. Kanyiri has insisted on all occasions that
security forces are in control and shall not tire until the county is rid of al
Shabaab elements. But that has become a cliché, with little or no results to
show. Coast regional
coordinator Nelson Marwa has questioned why the operation is taking so long to
achieve its objective. Speaking in Lamu on September 10 last year, he
said: “I can’t seem
to understand why people still die at the hands of al Shabaab daily, yet there
is a very expensive operation going on in the same forest, where the militants hide
after killing people. What’s happening? The Linda Boni operation has been here
for over two years. We need to see changes, or else we reshuffle you guys.” However, last
week’s lecturing of residents by al Shabaab has left many wondering just how
effective the security operation is. By the time security officers arrived, the
militants had already disappeared and the entire village was fleeing to Kiunga. The previous
day, the militants had waylaid and ambushed a security convoy that was
escorting buses from Lamu to Malindi and Mombasa. They killed a woman and
wounded five police officers, and torched two police land cruisers. They had also
planted an IED that blew up a military lorry that tried pursuing them shortly
after the incident. WHAT SHABAAB SAID When the
militants raided Ishakani village, they warned residents against cooperating
with the government. “They also asked us to stop taking rides in security
vehicles, lest we die when they bomb them. They said they are only interested
in killing the KDF and police officers and not civilians. Later, they left and
headed for the Boni forest. That’s when people began emptying out their houses.
We are scared,” resident Shahibu Mohamed said. Each time a
raid occurs, the security bosses tell the media security officers are in hot
pursuit, but not a single arrest has ever been made public. The militants seem
to have perfected hotspots from which they launch attacks on security vehicles
and border areas. Terror
hotspots along the Lamu-Garsen route include Nyongoro, Gamba, Mambo Sasa
corner, Lango la Simba and Milihoi. Those on border areas include Ishakani,
Kiunga, Basuba and Ras Kamboni. These areas
have little or no network coverage, inhibiting efforts to call for help,
coupled by a decades-old poor road network that makes it impossible for vehicles
to move faster past the hotspots. Nyongoro has
especially become a thorn in the flesh of security officers, following the
numerous terror attacks and ambushes it suffers. In mid-June
last year, three al Shabaab hideouts were discovered and destroyed in the area,
and an undisclosed number of al Shabaab militants killed. However,
Kanyiri said all areas considered hotspots have already been identified and
marked, and that enough security barricades has been set up. He says
reinforcements in various departments are also being made to ensure hotspots
are well managed and the enemy eliminated. “Intensive
investigations concerning the attack are also underway. In the meantime, we
have requested the government to provide more military vehicles to boost the
war on terror in this region. We will not tire. It’s an enormous task that
calls for sacrifice,” the Linda Boni director said. “Just like any
other cause, there are challenges, which we are confidently handling to achieve
our objective. Terrorism is a complex affair but the government has put its
right foot forward and we are in control, despite everything.” RESIDENTS’ PROPOSALS On Monday last
week, Lamu residents held a crisis meeting to deliberate on strategies they
feel could help outsmart al Shabaab. They proposed
that KDF officers escort passenger buses instead of police officers, since
they are well equipped and have better training to deal with the terrorists,
arguing that the usual police escort has become very predictable. Residents also
called for the regular rotation of KDF officers, KDF bosses and senior police
officers in Lamu to give way to newer and prompt tactics to deal with al
Shabaab. They also proposed
that the Lamu-Gamba road be cleared at least 500 metres on each side to give
clearer visibility while on the road. “We need a
change in tactics. We know rotation of the KDF and police officers, especially
the seniors, will work. The current security strategy seems not to be working,
and therefore, we are calling on the government to go back to the drawing board
and get a lasting solution. The people of Lamu are tired of living in constant
fear of their lives and property,” resident Mwangi Githinji said. Residents also
want the NIS to work extra hard to ensure the security officers are supplied
with all the necessary intelligence promptly to curb future terror attacks. They also want
the Lamu-Garsen road tarmacked faster to enable smooth travelling on the route.