NASA yesterday affirmed it will swear in Raila Odinga as the People’s President, a day after he said that if the state blocks the event, he will take the oath in another country. The scheduled date is January 30. NASA strategist and renowned economist David Ndii yesterday told opposition supporters all arrangements are in place to have Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka take the oath as President and Deputy President. The NASA principals said they will be sworn-in based on the August 8 General Election presidential results. The opposition says it won a resoundig victory. Read: Wanjigi, Miguna pushing Raila to take Jan 30 oath Speaking at the Okoa Kenya offices yesterday, Ndii dismissed claims of divisions among the principals. He said the NASA house is intact and remains focused on the swearing-in. “We assure our supporters and all interested parties the swearing-in is on as announced earlier and all arrangements are in place to make it the most significant event our citizens have ever organised for themselves to secure their interests, rights and dignity as a people,” he said.  GOVERNMENT OUTSIDE KENYA? The swearing-in will reclaim NASA’s victory and return “power to the people,” Ndii said. On Wednesday Raila told the Voice of America in a Kiswahili interview it was possible to work as a government, with a cabinet outside of Kenya. NASA denied the Daily Nation report on that VOA interview, saying he would form a government in exile. “Never did Mr Odinga say anywhere in the interview he will form the government from exile...,” ODM communications director Philip Etale said. Raila was quoted out of context, he suggested. Also read: [AUDIO] Raila escalates oath plan, says will run government from exile  Attorney General Githu Muigai has said taking the presidential oath is treason and is punishable by death. Raila told VOA, “This is not a joke. On January 30, we will be sworn into office using the August 8 results. An illegitimate government is in power. The true government, the one Kenyans voted for is outside,” Raila said. Ndii dismissed claims NASA is using the swearing-in as a bargaining chip for dialogue or mkate nusu. Click here for the latest political stories