The High Court has urged law makers to come up with laws on retirement of public servants to avoid succession vacuums in state corporations. "The government needs to come up with laws which should be enacted in issues relating to public servants' retirement so that by the time the executive attains the age of 58, there should be a potential successor," Employment and Labour Relations Court Judge Nelson Abuodha said yesterday. He spoke in a case in which activist Okiya Omtatah wants Kenya Revenue Authority board compelled to send Commissioner-General John Njiraini on terminal leave pending his retirement. He considered the argument by Njiraini's lawyer Waweru Gatonye stating that his client was on a three year contract which will expire on March this year and it remains valid until it expires. The court said some positions are a preserve of the executive to decide, and only strong laws can change this by including public participation. "I will hear the petition fully and give out a judgement on the case before Njiraini retires from KRA on March," the judge said. He directed all parties to file and serve any other responses within 20 days before the main petition. The case will be mentioned on February 7 for directions on the main petition, before a final ruling on the suit is made. In the petition, Omtatah argues that Njiraini reached the mandatory retirement age of 60 years on December 19 and should therefore be serving a six-month terminal leave. He claims that by refusing to appoint an acting commissioner and sending Njiraini on mandatory six months terminal leave pending his retirement, the board and Henry Rotich have neglected their duties, and are poised to breach the law on the 60 years' mandatory retirement age for public officials. Omtatah moved to court challenging Njiraini’s tenure at the helm of the KRA, saying the authority failed to send him on terminal leave pending his retirement. He had asked the court to order the KRA board to send Njiraini on terminal leave, pending his retirement in December. KRA on its part said that Njiraini had not sought an extension of his contract as the commissioner general. It further argued that the allegations concerning mandatory retirement and that Njiraini should be sent on compulsory leave for six months are baseless and were made prematurely.