Former director of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations Ndegwa Muhoro yesterday said he had done his best as the country top detective. Muhoro had served as the DCI boss for seven years and three months until last Friday when President Uhuru Kenyatta dropped him. Uhuru announced changes in the police service with Muhoro, Deputy IGs Joel Kitili and Samuel Arachi fired. Yesterday, Muhoro said he was leaving office with his head held high. He spoke during a ceremony to hand over to former police spokesman George Kinoti. Kinoti has been appointed the new DCI chief in acting capacity. Muhoro asked Kinoti to complete the projects he had initiated. He said the projects will make the directorate more effective. He also asked senior staff to support their new boss in discharging his mandate. Kinoti urged officers to embrace team work. Kinoti made a comeback to the directorate after 11 years. He last served as a personal assistant to former CID director Joseph Kamau. Besides being Kamau's PA, Kinoti was also the head of the Kanga squad - an elite police unit that was disbanded in 2006 following a public outcry. The squad was formed to deal with hardcore criminals in the country. Since then, Kinoti served in various capacities, including his last posting as the National Police Spokesman. Previously, Kinoti was the head of security at the Central Bank of Kenya. Meanwhile, former Presidential Unit Commandant Edward Mbugua also took over as the new DIG in charge of Kenya Police. The ceremony at police headquarters in Vigilance House was also attended by Noor Gabow. Gabow took over from Arachi as the DIG in charge of Administration Police. Arachi will await deployment by the Public Service Commission. Gabow becomes the first Kenya Police Service officer to take charge of the AP. Top commanders of the AP, have in the past, been from the Provincial Administration. Gabows appointment has been met with mixed reactions at the AP headquarters in Jogoo House. While some top commanders view him as an outsider, others are hopeful that he will professionalise the unit.                        