St Joseph Boys’ High School, Kiambu, parents are against the transfer of the principal. Moses Muiruri has been transferred to Kaheti Boys High School in Nyeri county. He revived the school’s performance, making it top in the subcounty KCSE exam results last year. The parents on Monday took to Githunguri streets and headed to the education director. They staged a peaceful demonstration questioning the criteria used to transfer Muiruri. “We are told in Githunguri it is only the St Joseph principal that was transferred, yet he has only been in the school for one and a half years,” said parent Mary Muthoni. She added, “He has transformed the school academically yet in other schools in the locality there are school heads who have stayed for more than nine years but were not transferred.” Parents and Teachers Association chairman Paul Karume said the head teacher had improved discipline. Cases of drug abuse, which had become rampant in the last five years, had dropped to zero because Muiruri provided a good teaching and learning environment. Karume said Muiruri headed the school for less than two years and it is unfair to transfer him. The Education ministry had directed that only teachers from that county who had served in their respective schools for more than six years should be transferred. “Muiruri had served here for less than two years and he is not a resident of the county. We suspect his transfer was engineered by a TSC official who is a relative of the new head teacher,” he said. Karume added that if the transfer is not cancelled, parents would withdraw their children from the Catholic-sponsored school.The school was the best in last year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam in Kiambu, which parents attributed to Muiruri’s hard work. Parents said the school had transferred six head teachers in five years, which hurt performance. The school’s board of management chairman Martin Mburu said the board sought the intervention of Cardinal John Njue and the TSC to address the matter. “We asked the Cardinal to intervene because it is the church that sponsors the school,” he said.      