Elgeyo Marakwet's Sh30 billion Arror dam project will resume as governor Alex
Tolgos and KVDA boss David Kimosop have buried the hatchet. At a meeting last Thursday, deputy president William Ruto asked the two to end  their differences for the project by the Kenyan and Italian governments to begin. Tolgos
acknowledged that they met the DP, whom he said was concerned about the compensation of locals who will be evicted for the dam to be constrcuted. “We support the project but with a condition - that our people are well compensated,” Tolgos said, adding Ruto wants the people compensated before the project kicks off. Tolgos and
Kimosop had differed sharply over the establishment of the
multipurpose dam. In September
last year, the governor said public participation would not be allowed in Kipsaiya, where the dam's site located, if the Kerio Valley Development Authority
did not consult Elgeyo Marakwet county leaders. Read: Big Read: Arror dam row stalls Elgeyo’s plan to promote farming and end banditry Also read: Tolgos, KVDA compensation row halts Sh30 billion Arror Dam project But during a meeting with Kimosop and community elders in Iten on Tuesday, he said differences over compensation had been ironed out and that they were ready to embark on public participation. “Some
community members have not supported this project. We, as county leaders, have decided that we are going to listen to them," he said. “The whole issue is about compensation. This project will not
start until all community members speak in one voice.” The governor
said community elders were asked to look into a truce between the community and the government. Kimosop
said KVDA, which is implementing the project., will reach out to those
opposing the project as it forges inclusion. The managing director noted fears about compensation and resettlement among locals living on the
proposed site. He said leaders from national and county government will jointly meet the community to persuade opponents of the project to get on board. “This is a
key project for Elgeyo Marakwet. We need to engage everybody to ensure a good community bind,” Kimosop said. The construction of the mega dam was to be launched in February but it was delayed following opposition by
locals and disagreement among their leaders. Click here for the latest political news