Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang has been arrested in an ongoing police crackdown on individuals linked to Raila Odinga's oath on Tuesday. Kajwang was arrested at Milimani Law Courts by Flying Squad officers and taken to the Nairobi PCIO. In a text to the Media, Kajwang said he is ready to pay the ultimate price for his role in swearing in Raila. "I have just been arrested by eright Flying Squad policemen. If my arrest and prosecution will be the ultimate price I must pay for my role in Swearing of the People's President, so be it. That will be a small price to pay compared to what Raila Amolo Odinga has paid all his life for political justice in this country," TJ Kajwang said. More on this: Duly elected my foot, Raila says of Uhuru's presidency Read: Raila to be sworn-in at 1pm, give NASA way forward Police are planning to charge him with attending the unlawful assembly and administering an unlawful oath. The Raila oath was administered by Kajwang and former Nairobi governor candidate Miguna Miguna on January 30. The MP had gone to court in a matter that PSC is challenging the slashing of their parks by SRC. Homabay Town MP Opondo Kaluma accompanied TJ Kajwang to PCIO Milimani where Kajwang was held before being moved to DCI headquarters along Kiambu road. None of the MPs or his lawyers was allowed to accompany him to Kiambu road. This comes just over an hour after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i announced that authorities were investigating yesterday's events. "What was witnessed at Uhuru park was a well-choreographed attempt to subvert or overthrow the legally constitutional government of Kenya," Matiang'i said. The second term MP was dressed in a complete advocate robe and wig during the Tuesday's function which the state had termed treasonous. At the Milimani PCIO where Kajwang was being held, opposition legislators were locked out with police saying they were acting on orders from above. "We have been here for almost one hour. Legal representation is guaranteed even to murderers," protested Mbadi. The National Assembly's minority leader was accompanied by lawyers Otiende Amolo (Rarieda), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North), Ong'ondo Were (Kasipul), Elisha Odhiambo (Gem), Gladys Wanga (Homabay MP), Sam Atandi (Alego Usonga), Rose Nyamunga (nominated Senator), Moses Kajwang (Homabay senator), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated MP), James Nyikal (Seme). Police head to lobby teargas at the legislators to disperse the large crowd that was fast building up. Speaking to journalists, Otiende disclosed that police were considering pressing two charges on Ruaraka MP - administering an unlawful oath and attending an unlawful assembly. "Police have decided to move him (Kajwang) to DCI headquarters in Kiambu but we are not sure if that is the final destination," said Otiende.  Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent  Click here for the latest political news