There are four MPs who had to eat humble pie after Jubilee instructed its members to remove them from various House committees. The four, Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, Moiben MP Silas Tiren, Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen and Embakasi North MP James Gakuya, had defied the party position to take up the parliamentary posts in the key committees much to the chagrin of party honchos. So, the party set to have them removed. Under ordinary circumstances, the individuals would have been well-favoured since they represent the ethnic groups of the two top principals – President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto.  REVERSE ETHNICITY OR HORSE-TRADING? However, Jubilee instead wanted other individuals to take up the positions, claiming regional balance, inclusivity and equity. This, in other words, is reverse ethnic particularism, preferring that others benefit other than those of your own tribe. But before you celebrate a positive step by Jubilee, the move has been cited as undermining the independence of Parliament, which is equally as grave as ethnic particularism. In this, the Executive stands accused. But for the moment, they have displayed a positive trend in championing regional balance, which even NASA itself is struggling with. The dominance by the ODM wing in the distribution of House committee positions has left a bad taste in the mouths of many NASA supporters. Reverse ethnicity is a good thing given the history of this nation. However, DP Ruto in particular has been seen as championing this type of reverse ethnicity as part of his 2022 game plan. He is hoping to consolidate his influence in regions that he deems important for his 2022 quest. Already, Kalenjins have accused him of turning down their business proposals in favour of those from other communities. One frustrated Kalenjin businessman intimated that he had discovered that the best way to get DP Ruto to back your plan, is to have it fronted by members of a certain community he deems crucial in his 2022 plan. It will go through.  TAMING THE SHREW Jubilee is facing perhaps a monumental challenge in trying to unify a politically divided country. It is yet to name its Cabinet as we approach February. It is clear that there is a problem it is dealing with regional (read ‘ethnic’) balance which, other than being important in achieving the elusive national cohesion, is necessary in spreading the party influence and support across the regions. Since it controls the National Assembly and the Senate, House committees are seen as important means of distributing the national cake and (at the same time) rewarding individuals who represent party interests nationally. Jubilee, therefore, lined up a list based on these lines and bade their members to vote accordingly. However, Keter and the three other individuals went against the grain and contested. Through machinations and utter scheming, they got their way (largely with the support of opposition players, who wanted to deny Jubilee its preferred positions). A fire-breathing party leader, Uhuru ordered the MPs removed in what has raised questions on exactly how independent Parliament is.  INDEPENDENCE OF THE LEGISLATURE The Legislature is an independent arm of government. Ideally, the Executive should not be seen to influence any appointments in the House. But this is Kenya. We have probably just witnessed a great reversal in parliamentary independence, which has been a thorn in the flesh in our Legislative development over the years. At a House speech on March 2, 1966, Tinderet MP Jean-Marie Seroney, a fierce proponent of parliamentary independence, said, “We are supposed to be elected to represent what we consider to be the best interests of our people and to use our judgment as far as any issue is concerned, but here we are having a tradition being established which, the way I see things, is going to end up by the Lower House of Kenya being another Reichstag.” The comparison with the Weimar Republic’s puppet parliament was well fitting. The Kenyatta One administration basically treated Parliament as such. In fact, Parliament was merely a department in the Office of the President and it was whence the MPs got paid. Seroney, who comes from the same region as Keter, fought against such and made Parliament’s independence his flagship political objective. On another occasion, on March 20, 1970 Seroney said, ‘Parliament is not only supreme, but it must be seen to be supreme.” He said so during a House debate on his motion to make Parliament a self accounting unit (which after many years, eventually led to the Parliamentary Service Commission). In many ways, it is disturbing that Kenyatta Two would repeat the mistakes of his father’s administration but it is probably the giant loop of history repeating itself. The only saving grace in the decision to fire Keter was that it was held against the background of reverse ethnicity. And that is a good thing anytime. But then again it was probably the person of Keter that was the problem.  KETER AND CONTRARIANISM Another reason Keter was asked to step down was the fact his fellow Nandi and neighbouring MP in Tinderet Julius Melly was already heading the crucial Education committee. It was felt that two MPs from the same county should not head two substantive committees. But that was probably not the real reason. Keter has actually been a divisive character known to shoot from the hip, often taking contrarian opinions against party positions. Nobody is too big for him. In the last Parliament, he led a spirited fight against the awarding of the SGR contract to a consortium led by China Road and Bridge Corporation. It was said that he was doing the bidding of a prominent Nandi businessman, who was fronting another (unsuccessful) consortium. Keter fought very hard against the SGR and the battle at one point became personal as he targeted his firepower at DP Ruto. At a public rally, he once likened DP Ruto as one man sent by his friends to climb a tree to see of the honey was ready for harvest. Once on top, the man kept silent despite calls from below to confirm if the honey was ready. The team below soon discovered that the man was busy eating the honey alone when chewed honeycombs landed below. Keter offered to bring down the tree altogether so that we could ‘share the remainder of the honey…’  SWEET REVENGE Perhaps his targeted criticism of members of his own party has returned to haunt him. Keter is on record as having called for the resignation of fellow Jubilee legislators Aden Duale and Kipchumba Murkomen after being mentioned in the multi-billion shilling NYS Scandal pitting former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru and various (rogue) NYS staff and businesspersons. For Duale, it seems that being castigated by a member of his own party, was too much to bear for, indeed, he applied his energy to ensure Keter was removed from the same Committee that oversights the very same NYS that brought them on a collision course.  GOING FOR THE IRON THRONE Since the Kenyan Parliament moved from the Westminster tradition and adopted the Congressional tradition (which emphasizes business through Committees), Departmental Committees have been seen as pedestals from which one can spread their political wings. The chair of a key parliamentary committee is seen as the ultimate Iron Throne, desired by many but achieved by few. Other than the obvious financial rewards, it can open doors with important movers and shakers in various sectors of the national economy. A parliamentary committee can also be a stew-pond, where ideas go to die and the status quo, particularly for a ruling coalition, is preserved. This was the reasoning behind placing the Public Accounts Committee in the hands of the opposition, which gives them the ammunition to fight government, especially on public spending. It is, therefore, necessary to ensure you have the right person in a strategic committee. In this, Keter, as unpredictable as he was, was probably considered the wrong man — particularly for the strategic Labour committee.  LABOUR AND SOCIAL WELFARE COMMITTEE The LSW Committee is indeed one of the most sought-after parliamentary committees. It is one of 15 Departmental Committees of Parliament (there are a total of 33 Parliamentary Committees of various types, the majority of them being Departmental Committees). The LSW oversights such powerful labour market institutions as the National Social Security Fund, Retirement Benefits Authority and the upcoming County Pension Fund, which control hundreds of billions in employee remittances. It also looks at policy issues regarding human resources in all sectors of the economy, and, as you know, this makes for interesting engagement. Then you have to deal with such people as Cotu boss Francis Atwoli and his almost orgiastic passion for workers’ rights. Matters of gender, youth, social welfare and social security are under its docket, including special interest welfare such as children, persons living with disabilities and the elderly. Then there is the NYS and its multi-billion budget. Now you begin to see why this is a crucial Committee could not be headed by an unpredictable person such as Keter. Already, Jubilee has committed itself to create over six million jobs in its second term and for that, the Labour Committee comes in handy in its strategy.  TAMING KETER POLITICALLY However, on the deeper level, an MP can use committee membership to leverage his political position. In the previous Parliament, Keter was a member of the Agriculture Livestock and Co-operatives committee. Not satisfied at merely being a committee member, he decided to go for the chairmanship of the Labour Committee. It is not clear if he wanted to use the position to right the wrongs in the NYS, including the removal of its former boss Jasper Rugut, who comes from his constituency. But whatever his motivation, it seems the winds were too strong for him. It may be that Ruto, whose side of the political divide controls the Labour ministry, would not want so much power for a person from his backyard — particularly one who has challenged him before. Through the LSW, for instance, a member could quickly find placement for jobless youth in their constituency, which is always a thorny issue for many MPs. One is often judged by how many youths he found jobs for. Controlling the LSW would have made Keter the first to know who is recruiting and you can, therefore, line up young people and place them there leaving behind many happy parents and constituents. But Keter is not considered overally important in the core of Jubilee, given his utterances and so there was no incentive to build him politically. Other than the stated political benefits, there are also potential financial benefits, particularly if one is able to muscle their way into cash-rich bodies that control workers’ trillions. The NSSF is one public body that has in the past treated the public to internal intrigues that have seen workers lose billions. Committee members can use their position for influence-peddling in these organisations. In short, there are many ways for the unscrupulous MP to benefit from this position.  PARLIAMENTARY INDEPENDENCE VS REGIONAL BALANCE Would you say then that Keter was a victim of reverse ethnicity? Perhaps so, perhaps not. Keter has since moved to court, and now awaits its ruling. On a more serious note, we should probably be thinking more of what would be the lesser evil — parliamentary independence or regional balance? It seems for now, we need both but we can’t have both. Listening to Keter vociferously defending his position he blamed everything, including his ethnicit,y as a consideration in his removal. But he really cant blame anyone for looking at him based on his tribe. He was one of the leaders who actively lobbied against the appointment of Prof Laban Ayiro as Moi University VC, rooting for fellow Nandi Prof Isaac Kosgey. This painted him in very bad light. However, as the brush must turn left, it also must turn right if we should say the picture was well made.