You will need my support to be President, NASA leader Raila Odinga told DP William Ruto yesterday. Without explaining his statement, Raila said Ruto will not win the presidency in 2022 if the current election system is not overhauled to guarantee free and fair elections. “The political tribulations I went through in 2007, 2013 and 2017 will not help Ruto become President,” Raila said. The NASA chief spoke in Kedowa village, Kipkelion East, during the burial of Kipkelion East ODM chairman William Koech. Raila has been pushing for what he calls electoral justice and has refused to recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as President. Read: Ruto, Raila rivalry reignited over 2022 showdown Yesterday Raila repeated his earlier remarks that Uhuru never won the presidential election in 2013 and 2017. He was accompanied by Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, Kericho ODM secretary Nicholas Tum and Bomet ODM chairman Ronald Ng’eny. Junet said Kenyans are ready to swear-in Raila as the people’s president on Tuesday in Uhuru Park and no amount of threats will stop them. “He had been jailed for nine years before and this one will not be new to those who support him,” the MP said. Atwoli urged Uhuru to extend an olive branch to Raila by holding dialogue before Tuesday. “The only thing I’m asking Uhuru and Raila is to meet and dialogue over the stalemate they are locked in to avert a situation similar to the 2007-08 post-election violence,” Atwoli said NASA yesterday announced it will hold the crucial launch of nationwide pre-inauguration festivities in Raila’s home turf of Nyanza on Saturday. Read: I'm done talking about politics, wait for Ruto in 2022, Uhuru tells Raila A committee in charge of the swearing-in of Raila and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said the festivities to be held in Homa Bay will culminate in the planned Tuesday oath-taking in Uhuru Park. Early this week, Uhuru Park was closed indefinitely for renovations. Nairobi county issued a notice on Tuesday saying no gatherings will take place in the park. The Nairobi county administration started the renovation of the park yesterday. However, NASA People’s Assembly Organising Committee strategist David Ndii said they booked Uhuru Park and no one will stop them from using it. “We wish to reassure our supporters and all interested parties that the swearing-in is on as scheduled,” Ndii said. But he declined to disclosed the judicial officer who will swear-in Raila and Kalonzo. Ndii dismissed Governor Mike Sonko’s move to close the park as “old and colonial tactics” that were used to deny Kenyans their constitutional rights and freedoms. Read: Without talks Raila and I will be sworn in, Kalonzo tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news