While admitting that road accidents spiralled out of control in December (some 250 people were killed), Transport CS James Macharia says the government is introducing technologies that will stop the bloodbath.  He spoke to the Star about phasing out matatus, extending the SGR and building an infrastructural legacy that will leave Jubilee head and shoulders above its predecessors. When you stepped into office after being appointed, what was the status of infrastructure? Under infrastructure, we deal with four subsectors: roads, railway, aviation and sea ports. Since Independence, we had only about 14,000km done by way of tarmac. That is what we found when we got into office in 2013. There was a big gap as to roads required to be upgraded to tarmac level (or what we call bitumen standards) and what was on the ground. The government decided it was important to have a very aggressive programme to tarmac the new roads. We gave ourselves a target of 10,000km to be done between five to 10 years. I’m glad to say so far, the roads done or are under construction total about 7,000km, and the balance will be done in the next five years. So if you can do 10,000km in five to 10 years, compared to say 14,000km which was done in 100 years, that is a major achievement by the government. That is why if you go to every county, there are roads being done. We have a catalogue in the ministry that lists counties alphabetically and all the roads under construction. In the railway subsector, for the first time, we are doing a new railway project after 122 years. The last time we initiated a new railway project was in 1895. And so it was important to fast-track phase one of the railway project from Mombasa to Nairobi. That was completed ahead of time and launched on May 31 last year, which was ahead of time by 18 months. We are now doing phase two, which is Nairobi to Naivasha. We anticipate to complete it by June 2019, which is also less than the anticipated period. We are also doing airports. JKIA now has new terminals to create more capacity. We are currently progressing on procurement to get a second runway. At the sea ports of Mombasa, we had a capacity of only 800,000 containers when we came into office. Today, the port can handle 1.75 million containers, more than double what we found. Lamu is being developed as part of the Lapsset corridor. We are currently doing three berths, and the first one will be completed in June.  Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni made a state visit on December 19, where he held talks over the SGR with President Uhuru Kenyatta. What transpired? Yes, we were called into that meeting in State House and the key thing was to brief Museveni on the progress being made on the SGR on the Kenyan side. The SGR is one project covering four countries. The presidents of four countries — Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan — signed what they call SGR protocol some few years ago. Obviously, the presidents of the other countries are keen to see what is happening in Kenya, because without Kenya completing the SGR, those other countries cannot have it. Museveni was very happy with the progress and he appreciated the efforts being put by Kenya to lead the way in terms of completing this project. Critics say the country is over-borrowing to fund these projects. What is your response?  These projects are expensive and we do not have the money as a government to fully finance them. What Kenyans must note is that these are investment projects. They will give a return on investment, as they are not consumer projects. For any shilling or dollar that has been invested, there will be a big return. For example, with the completion of the SGR, we anticipate it will enhance the GDP of this country by about 1.5 up to 2.5 per cent, which means it will pay for itself. We just did the mathematics of SGR and confirmed that if it carries about 5 million tonnes of cargo, then it will break even. The total cargo coming to Mombasa is 28 million tonnes for a year, meaning the SGR will have a very big headroom to make profits. This is money ploughed back to the Exchequer, and so Kenyans should see this as a positive investment, just like the way if you build yourself a house, it is not a waste.  What are some of the challenges you have faced in rolling out these projects? The main one is funding, and because they are huge projects, you have to negotiate proper funding to make sure it is affordable funding. The other problem is about land. If you take roads and railways, those two require a lot of land to be acquired. And you see land in this country is a very emotive subject. And we have hard issues to do with compensating people for the land. From Mombasa to Nairobi, for instance, the total cost of land compensation was about Sh25 billion — land alone, before you do anything. So compensation eats into the total package we have for financing these projects. The third challenge is coordination of these projects. These projects require good coordination and that is why the SGR has an inter-ministerial committee comprising about 12 ministries, which I chair myself. That inter-ministerial committee reports to a Cabinet subcommittee chaired by the President.  Talking about compensation for land being expensive, what is the progress for the second phase?   What we have done is we have marked where this rail will pass through, all the way from Nairobi National Park going to Ngong then to Naivasha. That alignment has been completed. Compensation could not be done because there was a court case brought by one activist, which prevented construction and therefore gazzettement of the land. I believe that case is coming to a close but in terms of alignment, where the rail will pass through has been agreed upon.   With an increase of Mombasa’s handling capacity and the new container depot, how many jobs do we anticipate? If say you are having the port of Mombasa handling 1.75 million containers, then you have these inland container depots, those facilities will be employing Kenyans. We anticipate about 5,000 to 6,000 Kenyans will get jobs as we expand the port of Mombasa and open this new container depot in Embakasi.  SGR trainees had made some complaints about the SGR contractor China Roads Bridge and Corporation (CRBC). Have you addressed them? We have two sets of trainees .We sent about 60 trainees to China to get degrees in railway engineering in what they call Beijing Jiatong University. They initially had some issues that were addressed when we visited them. Then those who do not travel to China go to Railway Training Institute, which so far has trained more than 300 local personnel.  When do we expect Kenyans to run the SGR?  The key thing was first of all was to make sure we have trained Kenyans. We needed to develop the skills to manage the train itself, and what we did was sign a contract with the Chinese to manage it for five years, which we extended to 10 years. I believe that after 10 years, Kenyans will be able to manage it both commercially and technically.  There were plans to phase out 14-seater PSVs. What progress has been made? We were very sensitive to the needs of the people [matatu stakeholders]. We did not want to bring regulations that will phase out by law. But what is happening is as a commercial consideration. Investors in the sector are actually bringing in bigger buses. We have been talking to the Matatu Owners’ Association and they have even agreed to be part of what we call the bus rapid system. Now that includes bringing new big buses, which we shall then create dedicated lanes for within certain lines in the city. And that makes more commercial sense. As old matatus fall off the roads, then we shall be bringing in these new buses.  You have announced measures to reduce the spiralling rate of roads accidents. How long will these changes take to come into effect? Some of those measures take effect immediately. For example, the directive given by the National Transport and Safety Authority in terms of surveillance and collaboration between traffic police and the NTSA is immediate, because you cannot wait as people lose their lives. Many of the measures are very immediate. If there are saccos causing accidents or not complying with the law, they will be de-registered immediately. Medium-term measures are like introducing this smart driving licence, because we are saying drivers’ history will be captured in a computer chip. That way, we can weed out rogue drivers and make sure their licences are withdrawn. That will start this month.  Will the age of a driver be limited? Those are some of the things we shall be looking into. If you look at countries, for example, the UK, if you are given a driving licence, it goes on until you are 70 years old. Thereafter, you have to apply on annual basis. The good thing with that is that we can check the health of the driver. Some people at 80 are still very strong, so you can give them the licence. But if people get difficulties beyond the age of 70, then we can review their health status with a view to withdrawing their licence. As the CS for Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development, how would you describe your achievements? I would say it is very commendable because we have gone through a major transformation. If you look at the four areas we have talked about, even the matatu sector which is very difficult, we have done a lot. Overall, there has been major transformation in doing new airports, doing a new rail, having new sea ports and major progress in terms of roads within five years. This is a major achievement.  In terms of road accidents, it is only December that has been a very bad month. But we are managing in terms of making sure we introduce new technology. We shall be introducing new gadget which will be stuck on the windshield indicating the profile of somebody’s driving. If say you exceed certain limits,it will be captured and then information relayed to the police so that in the next stop, you will find a police officer with all the records. We have to make sure the entire sector is digitized to make sure that we are able to manage it much more better. A Cabinet reshuffling is in the offing. Should you be retained, what will be your priority areas? The priority areas will be to complete those projects because what we do not want is having them being left behind as white elephants. We will have to ensure that those roads, airports, seaports and the SGR project are completed. Secondly is to make sure that Kenyans get the skills that will define the future of this country. For example, there have been complaints that we are giving jobs to the Chinese in big road construction. This is because we do not have capacity in this country. If you see, for example, we are now starting to do a major express highway from JKIA to Limuru, the one they call double decker, with phase three starting from Kangemi to Limuru. Those kinds of projects, we do not have local companies with the capacity to do them. If you talk about the airport, doing the second runway, we do not have local companies that can manage it. So one of my key priorities will be to enhance partnerships between foreign and local companies, to ensure they transfer skills and capacity to our citizens.