The National Police Service Spokesperson Charles Owino says the prolonged political stalemate is to blame for the recent robberies and muggings in the CBD. Owino said most youth are now idle after the elections, forcing some of them to turn to crime. Read:Police pledge to contain muggers sprawling Nairobi CBD "We have to get to know the cause of these muggings. We have experienced the longest political period in the country and now it is over. These youth had been kept busy by politicians who were paying them to run their campaigns but now after either winning or losing they have left the youth with nothing,' Owino said. Owino in an interview with the Star said the surging numbers of street children is also partly to blame for the crime. He said the service has got intelligence that some people are disguising themselves as street children with the motive to rob people. "We have asked the county government to collaborate with the police and identify genuine street children from the imposters. Those genuine should be settled somewhere for rehabilitation as we look for better ways to deal with the imposters," he said. This comes amid a public outcry of increased robberies in the CBD sometimes on a broadday light. So far, more than 35 suspects have been arrested and arraigned in connection with robbery with violence. The county has marked Temple and Hakati roads as well as Moi and Haile Selassie Avenues as the hot spots for the muggings. Other areas include the lower CBD, OTC Racecourse road, Uyoma road near St Peter's Clever Church and the junction of Ronald Ngala and Racecourse roads towards River road. The thieves cause injuries as they target phones, watches, laptops, handbags, fancy spectacles, earrings and chains. Most of them hide in a garage at the junction of Ring road and New Pumwani roads, and in Globe roundabout culverts from 4 am to 6 am and from 7 pm to 11 pm. Read:Five arrested for CBD robberies as Sonko forms anti-mugging squad Owino further asked the county government through their inspectorate department to look at humane ways to get hawkers out of town. This he said will play a key role in identifying those taking advantage of the congestion in the CBD to rob people. "You can imagine the congestion in town mixed with hawkers on every street and the street children. Sometimes this gives our officers a hard time in dealing with these criminal elements as they disappear in the crowds,' he said. He said more plain clothe officers have been deployed specifically to monitor these gangs and bring them to book.  Also Read:Sonko bans boda bodas from Nairobi CBD  Click here for the latest political news