Police are pursuing two businessmen allegedly engaging in tax evasion through illegal importation of rice and Sugar from Pakistani. The two are being investigated for assisting unscrupulous foreign businessmen engaging in transitional crime in the country Senior detectives believe Ali Abdi Mohammed and Ismail Omar are assisting 11 Pakistanis arrested on Tuesday in connection with terrorist activities. Read: [VIDEO] Mombasa cops arrest 10 Pakistanis over terrorism The eleven were arrested within Kizingo and Nyali estates after an intelligence report of their unlawful presence in the country. “The two Kenyans are working in cahoots with the foreigners to register companies, processing of work permits for the foreigners, who are engaging in unlawful business in the country,' said one of the detectives. The lead investigator said two companies Dot.com Ali Mustaqim and air Menzies international are being investigated by the DCI officers and Kenya revenue authority. Preliminary police finding indicates the foreigners repackage the imported rice and sell on subsided prices, affecting local dealers. Police said the repackaging takes is conducted at Kinjaro and new ways godown all situated within Shimanzi area. Dci officer said “it’s well-orchestrated cartel that involves senior officers including immigration department who facilitate their stay in the country. "They use Mombasa as a dumping site and deny KRA millions of tax,’’ he said. In their submission, the prosecution led by assistant DPP Yamina Jami said the police were probing if their businesses are used in the funding of terror activities in the Country or globally. Jami said if the suspects are released, there was a possibility of them interfering with investigations. Mombasa police commandant Johnston Ipara said the detectives are investigating if the foreigners are engaged in money laundering and drug trafficking. "We are still interrogating the suspects, we suspect they are illegally in Kenya and carrying out commercial activities without permits," Ipara said. The senior police officer leading the operation said Kenya authorities raided residences of the foreigners within Kizingo area. "None could give a satisfactory account of their status in Kenya," said Ipara Police suspect the proceeds of their business could be funding terrorist activities in Pakistan.   Click here for the latest political news 