Sources in Parliament indicate there is rare consensus about who should be commissioners of the Parliamentary Service Commission. Both NASA and Jubilee MPs have unanimously settled on Rosa Buyu (Kisumu), Catherine Wambilianga (Bungoma), Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Taveta’s Naomi Shabaan (pictured) from the National Assembly and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) and Eng Mahmoud Mohammed (Mandera) from the Senate. Voting for PSC commissioners will be the first business when the Houses resume. State House had given a line-up which elicited uproar, forcing the MPs to shelve approval of the names. ***** An IEBC official has just bought in cash a prime property at Amagoro Park in Kitale. The gated community is the new found home of who-is-who in Kenya’s political and corporate world.The one acre plots at the exclusive residence go for Sh3 million and those who have seen the drawings and bills of quantities for the house say what the IEBC official plans to put up is not going to cost anything less than Sh20 million.The contractor is said to be under instructions to finish the house by June this year and has been told money is not the problem; he should use the best building and finishing material in the multimillion-shilling project. If you thought overnight millionaires are only made from gambling, you are wrong. Look around. ***** Who is behind the upcoming illegal dumpsite opposite St Francis Hospital along Kasarani Mwiki Road? Residents are calling on Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to rescue them from health risks and the foul smell emanating from the garbage which sits on land reportedly owned by KPLC. All garbage collectors operating in the area wait for nightfall to offload tonnes of solid waste in the fenced property. Patients visiting the health facility have constantly complained of air pollution from the dumpsite, which is being operated by some well-connected and known garbage collectors from the area. ***** The decision by a Rongo Magistrate’s Court to send home 12 ODM reps nominated as gender top-up to the Migori County Assembly yesterday has shocked 14 Nyeri counterparts to the core. The High Court stayed the swearing-in of the Nyeri MCAs but it was lifted to allow the ceremony to take place. The Migori ruling left them worried, with some of their critics in social media telling them to ‘prepare for the same treatment and start packing’. Some of the 14 MCAs, our mole said, were irregularly selected from relatives and cronies of some powerful Jubilee Party leaders from the region.