Champions Kenya Pipeline will do without the services of Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) Most Valuable Player Violet Makuto at the 2018 women’s Africa Club Championships set for March 5-18 in Cairo, Egypt.
The want-away middle blocker-cum-opposite hitter is not part of coach Japheth Munala’s plan for the continentals. Makuto left the champions earlier this month for Dubai, United Arab Emirates for trials but she is yet to pen a deal with any club.
As confirmed by the head coach, Pipeline will dearly miss Makuto’s services given she was unanimously voted the MVP in the Kenyan league last year. “Makuto has been an integral part of the team and I must admit that we cannot replace her fully. But I am happy that other players have stepped up and we are doing well in our preparations,” noted Munala, whose side started their preparations on January 3.
Makuto is the second player from the Pipeline camp to seek professional stints abroad after Gaudencia Makokha left for Poland in October 2017.
As the team vowed to reclaim the African title come March, the Embakasi-based oiler boosted players’ morale by issuing each of them with medical cover cards.
“With this, every player is entitled to in and out-patient medical services anywhere and anytime together with their attached family members,” intimated KPC managing director, Joe Sang when he feted the reigning champions for winning the league title four times in a row (2014-2017).
The company will also upgrade the seven-time Africa holders’ training grounds to a state of the art pitch after the board approved its budget on Wednesday. Sang once again urged players to further their education. He said: “Let’s go back to school and improve ourselves so that in your lives after volleyball, you can get into the top management levels in the company,”
Team captain Trizah Atuka vowed to recapture the trophy in Cairo. “We are so used to collecting the local trophies so we want to challenge ourselves to grab the continental crown and go for the worlds,” she said.
KVF president Waithaka Kioni was proud of the team he once served as the team manager. He wished Munala’s charges the best in their preparations and applauded KPC for giving the players medical cover. Kioni was flanked by NOC-Kenya president Paul Tergat who encouraged the team to believe in themselves as they venture out to conquer the continent in March.