Recce Squad officers ridding Lamu of al Shabaab terrorists have warned that they will down their tools if they don't get risk and hardship allowances. Members of the elite GSU squad have also demanded immediate evacuation from Boni Forest as their period of duty lapsed in August last year. Those who spoke to The Star on condition of anonymity claimed their bosses threaten them with job loss whenever they ask to leave the area. They noted in Lamu town on Tuesday that they signed documents on rotation procedures when they embarked on the operation. "We are willing to lose our jobs since efforts for our bosses to pay the allowances and rotate us haven’t borne fruit," one said. Operation Linda Boni was launched on September 15, 2015 by the late Joseph Nkaissery who was Interior cabinet secretary. The objective was to drive the militants out of their bases in the forest following many attacks on police and civilians. The operation's name later changed to the Boni Enclave Campaign. The Recce officers claimed they are each owed Sh226,000 for the eight months they have been in the region under attack. They termed the lack of pay one of the main reasons they do not want to deal with the many al Shabaab attacks that are still taking place. “Why should we continue risking our lives fighting al Shabaab when someone else is 'eating' our risk allowance? We don’t have the morale and that’s why we don’t really do anything when we hear of an al Shabaab attack around here," another said. "We do all we can to go there late. Nobody should die for nothing. They should pay our allowances and take us out of here." More on terror war: Sexy al Shabaab spies lure Linda Boni cops for tips Also see: [VIDEO] 'Many' al Shabaab killed during Boni bombings, guns found - Kanyiri The protesters noted it was unfair for KDF soldiers and NIS officers to get paid each month as they continue "wallowing in misery". They said it is time to leave the operation in the hands of the Kenya Defence Forces and National Intelligence Service since they are the only ones getting recognised while they "slave for nothing". “We feel shortchanged. Ours is the only unit in the operation that is being sidelined and denied allowances," said another officer. "The KDF and NIS are well-sorted each month and on time. Let the government release us so the KDF and NIS can continue with this operation. "We are not recognised so we want to be moved out of here or else we will be forced to quit our jobs. This [the operation] is more important than any amount of money." They added their families suffer since they cannot provide sufficiently for them without their pay. Reached for comment, operation director Joseph Kanyiri dismissed the complaints by the officers as "petty". Kanyiri said they are not entitled to any risk or hardship allowances and that as far as he was concerned, their salaries had been paid. He lashed out at the officers for being "crybabies" and asked them to stop complaining and work. “Those complaining should understand it’s not a must for them to get allowances. They must be aware that they are doing the job as per their call," he noted. "Hardship allowances are always featured in their pay slips and are paid every month. I don’t understand the allowances they are demanding. They should come forward to explain who promised them such allowances rather than going to the media. It won’t help." Click here for the latest political stories