This
national dialogue has to be structured just like it has been in an appeal from
the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops. The
religious leaders should be at the forefront in facilitating such dialogue in
order to make it homegrown. As Catholic Bishops, we managed to help in finding
solution for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and the
Electoral Laws last year. Our
role will be to consolidate the agenda both from the Opposition and Government
and lay it out for discussion. All stakeholders should be invited to present
their issues on an open forum that is well facilitated and favourable to all
parties. Principally,
from where I stand, members of the clergy and the business community should
form a committee that will lead in bringing together all stakeholders at a
discussion table. The
role of foreign diplomats is very important in any country in the world. We
should not wish the diplomats away because they are not playing the central
role in the dialogue, just shepherding the groups embroiled in conflict. I
 is we, Kenyans, who should find a
solution to our problems – but that solution is not in our politicians. It
has to be clear about the role of the diplomatic call. Diplomats are accredited
to a country, they don’t say much but usually help in promoting peace whenever
conflict arises. But
in the long run, the solution of any conflict is found by the citizens of a particular
country. This is similar to how we found the solution to our Constitution. As
a Church, we see there is a solution that needs to be facilitated in the form
of a conversation, leading to a dialogue. The Church has already placed a theme
that entails reconciliation, peaceful coexistence and national integration. When
we say national conversation, it is drawn from persons who are accepted by both
sides who put all their skills and energy into the key issues raised and tabled. The
facilitation for dialogue has to be a neutral ground and the leadership taken
by leaders drawn from across the board. Of course, the leadership should later
on include politicians, who also have a crucial role. As
I said, we did our best as the clergy last year in unifying various constitutional
institutions involved in the election. We are consolidating instruments to
include all stakeholders. The writer is Bishop of
the Catholic Military Ordinariate 