COTU has urged the government to intervene and lower the cost of essential commodities whose prices have shot up as a result of high fuel prices. Secretary General Francis Atwoli said on Monday the cost of production has gone up and businesses are now passing the extra cost to consumers. "The increases in the cost of energy trigger inflation thus lowering the purchasing power of workers and Kenyans as a whole. Failure by the government to cushion workers against these increases then let it prepare for direct confrontation from workers in demand for pay increases from the entire labour fraternity and all sectors of the economy," Atwoli said. Read: Poor households to suffer more as fuel prices soar in latest twist On Sunday, the Energy Regulatory Commission said fuel prices have gone up by more than Sh2 per litre. Super petrol and diesel increased by Sh2.13 and Sh2.39 per litre respectively while kerosene went up by Sh3.36. A litre of petrol now costs Sh106.30 in Nairobi up from Sh104.17, diesel Sh94.82 from Sh92.44, while kerosene goes for Sh74.78 per litre. The ERC attributed the increase to “weighted average cost of imported refined petroleum products”. The hikes come when a 2kg packet of maize flour is at Sh120 up from Sh90 following the end of a government subsidy on the staple product last month. Read: 2KG packet of maize flour to hit Sh200 by March The price could rise even further if projections by Famine Early Warning System Network (FEWS NET) are accurate. The report projects that a 90-kilogramme bag of maize is likely to increase to Sh3,900 by May. A 90-kg bag of maize currently goes for between Sh3,000 and Sh3,400 but it will shoot to between Sh3,400 and Sh3,900 by May. This represents a 27 per cent increase above the average price. FEWS NET said maize imports will not make things any easier as they are expected to be 75 per cent above average. These projections have the COTU boss worried and he is now threatening stern action. "If the government has no capacity to intervene and take immediate remedial actions to lower the cost of commodities, COTU will be compelled into convening its National Delegates Conference to strategize for a uniform action against the increases and demand for higher wages to compensate the daily high prices on essential commodities." Atwoli noted that stability of oil prices is essential for economic growth and its increase directly leads to a high cost of living. He said it’s only a matter of time before the public transport sector takes advantage of the increase in fuel prices to hike fares. "COTU wishes to remind Jubilee government of its campaigns promises to Kenyans for affordable energy, housing, free primary and secondary education and control of commodity prices. "We are yet to witness a fully constituted government and the situation is already hurting poor Kenyans and as workers, we are keenly watching these unfolding situation against their campaign manifesto," Atwoli said. Click here for the latest political news  