I’m not seeking the Kitui West parliamentary seat in the name or influence of my mother or family, I’m my own man, former Cabinet minister Nyiva Mwendwa’s son has said. Maluki Kitili said he has what it takes to vie for the seat and his ambitions and aspirations are not attached to anyone. “Let people detach me politically from my mother or other family members. I’m Maluki Kitili and people should see me from that perspective. I will serve the Kitui West people as Maluki Kitili and as a son of the soil,” he said. Kitili will tomorrow faceoff with former MP Francis Nyenze’s widow Edith Vethi at the Wiper primaries. Kitili was cleared to seek the Wiper ticket amid attempts by some party operatives to block him. two to fight for wiper ticket Wiper nominations coordinator Agatha Solitei said the names of both Vethi and Kitili have been forwarded to the IEBC as the only persons who will square it out for the Wiper ticket in Kitui West. She said the party gave enough time for others to register for the Wiper nominations, but only the duo came forth. Kitili on Saturday launched his bid during a rally at his home in Matinyani. He was endorsed by eight Kitui MCAs. The ward representatives, led by Sylvester Kitheka, said Kitili is the best candidate to take Kitui West to the next level of development and, as the grassroots leaders, they had an obligation to guide the electorate in making the right decision. “We have many candidates running, but, considering all factors, Maluki is the best in terms of ability, exposure, temperament and accessibility by all people,” Kwa Mutonga MCA David Thuvi said. He urged voters to elect Kitili during tomorrow’s Wiper nominations, saying he has the best credentials to articulate the issues affecting the constituency at the National Assembly. Kitili promised to serve all people without bias or favour, adding that his candidacy represents a fresh start in managing the affairs of the constituency. “As a newcomer in politics, I represent renewed hope for the future. I’m confident of winning the Wiper ticket and I urge voters to pick a candidate who can deliver the seat to NASA,” he said. seat fell vacant The seat fell vacant after MP Francis Nyenze died at the beginning of December last year. Nyenze died while undergoing treatment for coronary cancer. He had been ailing since 2008. On August 31, Nyenze went for the swearing-in at the National Assembly with an oxygen tank. He arrived at the assembly dragging the tank behind him, with the tubes snaking up his back. The former Wiper MP caused a storm when he left the Opposition to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election on October 26.