IS the Wiper party the target in the move to compel all NASA members to
sign affidavits of commitment to the controversial swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the People's President?
Well, word has it that the Ford Kenya, ODM and ANC parties are suspicious of
Wiper's commitment to have the oathing, slated for the end of this month. Our
mole tells Corridors that some ODM lawmakers were heard in the corridors of
Parliament saying that the affidavit is the best strategy to separate the chaff
from the wheat – and will determine if the NASA marriage will last up to 2022,
or not.  A female Opposition MP who
was recently elevated to a powerful position in the House is staring at a
possible jail term. The lawmaker is being sought by police over fraud for
obtaining money from two people with a promise to get them jobs at her local
county government. However, the deal went sour after the MP refused to answer calls
and even declined to refund the Sh2.2 million she pocketed as part of the deal.
The MP has gone underground, fearing arrest and prosecution and could lose her
position if charged.  A Principal Secretary who
was embroiled in a multi-million-shilling scandal is the talk of the town. Reason? The
man is said to have poured money, literally, to fly the flag. Its said the PS
is reaching out to influential figures around President Uhuru Kenyatta to get a
Cabinet appointment. However, those in the know say his file is still alive at
the EACC and marvel at the ambitions of the man, whose meteoric rise in the
Civil Service is equally puzzling.  DOES it matter which morgue
you are taken to when you die? Well, some worshippers from a church in Kisumu
are in shock, following a decision to airlift their spiritual leader who died
last week to a high-profile morgue in Nairobi, overlooking 10 modern facilities
offering mortuary services in the lakeside city. The believers, speaking in low
tones after yesterday's meeting to plan the cleric's funeral, wondered what is
in the Nairobi morgue that is lacking in other facilities. The morgue is a preserve
of who-is-who in the country.  SO, which between Jubilee and
NASA is more dictatorial? Well, two MPs from the two sides seem to concur. The
ODM MP claimed Jubilee was the despotic party as it had de-whipped four MPs
validly elected to head parliamentary committees. However, the Jubilee man said
ODM, and, by extension, NASA, was more authoritarian for coercing MPs to sign
an affidavit supporting the swearing-in of Raila
Odinga. 