Community members from the three largest clans in Garissa county have resolved to unite and work together this year. The decision was made during a meeting organised by the county government in Garissa town on Monday. It was attended by security personnel and county officials. The meeting was meant to heal the rift caused last year during the highly charged political campaigns and elections. There is usually a rift among the Abduwak, Auliyahan and Abdala clans after every General Election resulting in clashes with those defeated feeling shortchanged. Former Governor Nathif Jama withdrew his petition against incumbent Ali Korane last month and advised his supporters to work closely with the county administration to bring about development. According to the Agriculture and Livestock executive Issa Yarrow, similar forums will be organised for youths to equip them with skills to earn a living. He said the county government will create a conducive environment for business that will encourage the youth to venture into self-employment instead of joining extremist groups including al Shabaab. Although neither Korane nor Jama attended the peace meeting where six camels and 14 goats were slaughtered, the elders present said the two support reconciliation and had in fact initiated the process. Health executive Ahmed Abdinadir said the reconciliation of communities will ease tension and hasten development as the new year unfolds. Attendees later shared a meal and local Imams conducted prayers. Clan-based politics play a big role in Garissa county. Korane picked his Cabinet last month. Leaders and activists in Garissa raised concerns over the failure by the county executive to meet the two-thirds gender rule in the appointment of chief officers. There has been a hot debate about gender imbalance in the appointments. Out of 22 appointees, only four are women. It was the same case in Wajir county, where out of the 25, only four are women. Although Korane and his Wajir counterpart Mohamed Abdi have blamed clans for failing to nominate women for such positions, activists and opinion leaders say the buck stops with the governor.