At least 100 traditional dancers say they have not been paid for entertaining guests during the Kimalel goat auction in Baringo county on December 21. The chief guest at the auction was Deputy President William Ruto, who raised Sh25 million in a record 25 minutes. “We curse the day because after travelling over 20 kilometres from Loboi in Marigat, I was left stranded without any payment after entertaining the guests,” Sokome Chesang told the Star yesterday. Ruto paid Sh12 million in cash for 1,000 goats he said he would share with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Each goat was sold for Sh12,000. Ruto said he no longer wanted to hear of goat farmers being in debt. On Friday Governor Stanley Kipits paid 300 farmers who provided 2,080 goats for sale. Kiptis said the money will go a long way in helping the farmers to pay school fees and meet their basic needs. Chesang led a team of 15 groups of 100 traditional dancers. “How come we were invited to entertain guests who dished out millions of shilling yet we go home without any?” Haron Kipsaita from Baringo North subcounty said. Kipsaita said it has become routine for them to be used by county leaders to entertain during public functions and thereafter to be left without any pay. “We even suspect the DP might have left the organisers with some amount to give us, but then they sneaked away with it,” he said. The dancers threatened to trek all the way to Nairobi to tell Ruto “if the county government of Baringo does not heed our plight and pay us our dues”. County director of culture Wycliffe Maritim said the 15 groups were not invited to the auction. “We only invited some 20 groups who participated in entertaining the guests and we paid them,” he said. Among the leaders who paid cash during the goat auction were Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, Water PS Fred Segor, Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru, Baringo Woman Representative Gladwell Cheruiyot and Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. 