Title: First Daze of Winter - EP Artiste: Maleek Berry Genre: Afro-pop, Hip-hop Release: January 12  In the era of great African musicians, Maleek Berry better known for his 2016 hit Kontrol, ranks somewhere as one of the most promising recording artistes. Remember, the British-born star is also a remarkable record producer, and with that pedigree, it's expected that he will constantly offer his fans something new occasionally. The artiste, who was in the country not long ago, recently dropped a new EP, "First Daze of Winter", which presumably is a sequel to his 2016 release "Last Daze of Summer".  While the latter was a lively, ebullient and high-spirited project, his latest release, as the name insinuates, is a moody release. The 19-minute, six-track project kicks off with Been Calling, which highlights the story of a girl Maleek loves so dearly but she's not interested. Maleek goes on to express vulnerability with his second track, Pon My Mind. On Own It, he expresses his love for his girl, dropping intimate lyrics on the essential track. If the conceptual bent in "First Daze of Winter" is indicative of where Maleek Berry is at the moment, then it is a good place to be. The second half of the EP continues to propel him to a new level of brilliance. He certainly does justice to Sisi Maria, What If and Pulling Me Back. The appeal of Maleek Berry's work has been between a push-and-pull of staying current and expressing himself to his fans. He's capable of creating tunes that will get you moving and thinking hard about things at the same time. From what we gather from this release, it's certainly a good thing for the artiste to be in love, because it has him creating some memorable tunes. We can agree that not too much thought is placed in the creation of this EP. Maleek plays safe; the EP is simply basic. But maybe the beauty is in the minimalistic approach the artiste decides to take. It's the kind of effort you'll want to have on repeat for not more than two weeks, then probably listen to the next time you accidentally bump into it.  Star rating: 3/5