Yatta residents will know the fate of their MP Charles Kilonzo on January 19 as parties have finished making submissions. Petitioner Francis Mwangangi
challenged his election on August 8 and hearings had been going in until Monday. Parties made their final submissions before Machakos court judge Aggery Muchelule. “I will deliver my judgement [that Friday] at 10am," Muchelule said. Related: Court dismisses application to strike out Yatta election petition Mwangangi went to court to challenge the process of
the election which he said was marred by irregularities and illegalities. Through his
lawyer Andrew Makundi, he asked the court to nullify the election and
award Sh2.5 million as costs to the petitioner. He submitted that the IEBC returning officer in
the constituency was not properly mandated by law to conduct the election, since he was a voter in the area. RO Nicholus Kalimi was first
gazetted to preside over Masinga constituency elections. The electoral agency argued that he was
moved to Yatta through a corrigendum notice since his home was in Masinga. The petitioner also claimed IEBC colluded with Kilonzo by training agents, while Mwangangi's were not taken through the same process. Makundi added that results were declared on August 10, not August 9 as submitted by IEBC.  The commission was also faulted for not
complying with an order to provide access to information concerning the
election. IEBC also reconfigured the KIEMS kits without
authority from the court. There were also alterations and cancellations on some forms and they were not countersigned as required by law, the
petitioner argued further. More on this: Yatta MP results were altered at tallying centre, court told Also read: KIEMS kits reconfigured after August 8 polls, court told Kilonzo, who
was represented by lawyer Bernard Mung'ata, said the petition should be
dismissed for lack of sufficient proof of irregularities. He further argued that the petition was filed a day after deadline. Click here for the latest political stories 