It
is common knowledge that all the three NASA principals besides Raila Odinga
have presidential ambitions and that Musalia Mudavadi did not run last year
because the college of the presidential ticket hopefuls thought Raila would be
best placed to run. That
left the possibility that the remaining three would be still in contestation at
the next election. And the ANC leader is one of them. The coalition contract
recognizes that the 2017 flagbearer would carry the flag only for one term and
that in 2022 the field would be wide open for the three to compete for the NASA
flag. The
ANC leader would naturally revamp his team, his party and his political
environment generally with a view of making a very serious and meaningful shot
at the presidency when we come to the next roadblock. So there is no doubt, in
fact, it is not a matter of speculation, because we will be cleaning our
structures, strengthening the branches and cleaning NASA as well to ensure
there is cohesion and integration within the party. We will ensure there is
commonness of focus and agenda and that the party has got stalwarts who are
going to take it forward. Regarding
the other principals, it is our understanding that there are only two other
principals in NASA as we are concerned in that context because the
understanding was that the fourth one was the flagbearer in the last election.
During the next five years, if there will be an election, as NASA has continued
to push for, it has to be a snap election. And the flagbearer would naturally
be Raila Odinga. But
if the current situation resolves itself and we find out that we are going into
2022, then we would have a different team. Our principal would be the frontline
contestant and we would be able to persuade the other principals to see that he
was better placed. In
all political contestations, you must believe without needing to apologize that
you have a candidate who is going to win and that this candidate has the
necessary assets and a wide appeal to the electorate and that he has endeared
himself to the electorate in the context of the kind of political agenda he
embraces and comportment. In this context the country needs to be fixed and the
person to fix that is the ANC leader. The writer
is the ANC secretary general Click here for the latest political stories