Kenyans on Twitter want politician Kipchumba Murkomen to mind his business and not comment on NASA's plan to swear in Raila Odinga. The Opposition's journey began in August last year with the rejection of results of the presidential election. NASA leaders want thorough reforms, especially in the electoral system, and have been employing tactics as part of a national resistance movement. The grand plan is for Raila and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka to be sworn in on January 30 as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya. Read: Raila to be sworn-in on January 30 But the Opposition has been postponing the function since December 1, so via Twitter on Tuesday, Murkomen wrote: "Why is NASA delaying the 'swearing in ceremony'?" KOT grabbed the opportunity to tear into the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator who is also Senate Majority leader. 'Why has Jubilee delayed naming CSs?' '@jobmwita' laughed off the comment saying Murkomen still wants to ride on NASA's event to get his house in order after getting "dumped". '@apelago1' wrote: "Concentrate on Jubilee affairs. NASA will never be distracted by jilted couples." A user named Rhymes Intellect wrote: "Didn't your mother ever teach you to mind your own business?" Francis Limera brought up President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's choices of cabinet secretaries. He told the Senator: "Watengeza kwa mwenzako, na kwako je (You are cleaning another's house, what about your own)?" Fazul Pamba told the lawmaker to stop "talking smack" while unga prices are on the rise. "I thought you had a government to run," he said. Justus Walobwa said NASA has delayed the ceremony for the same reason the ruling coalition has delayed naming its full Cabinet. Read: How Uhuru named CSs minus Ruto Senior CadMan said: "Mr Senator, as leaders you should preach peace despite political differences. It's you, our leaders, who are putting Kenya in a comic state." '@PNemuel' added: "Don't poke your nose into NASA affairs. Jubilee is burning up and Uhuru [may] take [Baringo Senator and Kanu chairman] Gideon Moi as his VP,"  David OcholaJnr said Murkomen should not speak of the swearing in ceremony "with concern" as he said it was none of Jubilee's business. "I have no polite response to political criminals," he added. Muthoni Wanani asked the Majority leader to "deal with the myriad of problems your government has promised to solve, please". "If possible, try to find relevance beyond being JP’s barking dog focused on NASA." Walter Saina wrote: "Are you losing anything because of the delay? Mind your business." Fred Malovah added: " ... because NASA is an outfit that carries out activities at its own pace. Why is Jubilee delaying to implement free secondary education?" Related: Raila oath will give equal footing for talks with Uhuru - MP Nyamita 'NASA employing delay tactics' But other Twitter users said the National Super Alliance is afraid of inauguration. "Baba [Raila] was given the Bible during some rally over the weekend but aliogopa (he was afraid)," Isaack Cheboiwo said. Bennie Kiplangat said: "No swearing in ... delay tactics ... they think Jubilee will call for dialogue." On Monday, Raila told the President that together they can lead Kenyans to the 'promised land of Canaan'. He noted Uhuru has a golden opportunity to break with the past and make a decision centred on the people. Several local and international leaders have asked Raila and Uhuru to hold talks following two elections that stretched the season from August to November 2017. In the past, the two have said they do not want a coalition government. More on this: Work with me to change Kenya into Canaan, Raila tells Uhuru Also read: Form parallel government after oath, advisers tell Raila Robert Alai said: "Hawana Bible (They don't have a Bible)." '@m_kitolo' said" " ...because they know it has no place in our constitution. They will swear in and go back home to watch TV just as normal citizens." Click here for the latest political stories