Residents of Limuru have asked the national government to investigate construction of a Sh100 million technical institute, which has stalled. They say the future of the Limuru Technical Training Institute, and many young people, is uncertain after the contractor a left the site before completing the project. They say the building materials are at a risk of being stolen, since watchmen left after workers departed. Kamandura resident Anne Wanjiku said people wander around the construction site, since there is no one to guard it or question them. “People walk in and out. What do you think will happen when they realise construction work is not going on, and they see metal, stone, timbers and poles? They will definitely loot. Who do we blame?” she asked. The technical school is one of the institutes the Jubilee administration promised to build in all constituencies. They are supposed to absorb school leavers so they can study technical courses and later find jobs. Project contractor Moses Mukira of Springs Company declined to comment when the Star contacted him. Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology principal Michael Njugu, who is mandated to oversee construction, blamed the contractor for leaving the site. He said the company was awarded the tender after fulfilling all the requirements. “We have provided everything required, including finances, to the contractor and I am disappointed to learn that the project has been abandoned with no security to secure the materials,” he said. Njugu said appropriate action will be taken against the contractor, including cancelling the tender and awarding it to a different company. The government allocated Sh40 million towards the project, while the National ConstituencyDevelopment Fund provided Sh10. The government will provide Sh50 million equipment. Area MP Peter Mwathi said he was following up on the state of construciton and will ensure the project is completed.  “We cannot sit and watch as the project stalls. We want to know why it stalled,” Mwathi said. Community representative Sakina Karanja urged the state to take immediate action and ensure the project is completed.            