What criteria did Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and Teachers Service Commission CEO Nancy Macharia use in transferring principals across the country? Our mole has told Corridors numerous teachers including principals targeted in the transfer were overheard during a meeting in one prestigious hotel in Western claiming that there is mischief in the transfers. The teachers for instance demanded the ministry and TSC to explain why principals from a particular community were moved to the best performing high schools in Western yet outgoing principals from the region have been transferred to under-performing ones. They claim politics is at play in the changes which take effect today. *****    What is happening at Ahero Police station in Kisumu County? Residents were stunned last week after a junior police officer from the station helped a motorist who had assaulted another motorist to escape in broad daylight as members of the public watched in disbelief. The two (police and the motorist) are said to be long time friends and when the officer who first at the scene found that it was his buddy who was on the wrong, he hugged him and quickly whispered to the friend to speed off. Two years ago, culprits escaped from the same police cell under mysterious circumstances. Angry residents are now demanding that Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet personally intervene restore some order at the station. *****  A number of politicians from Central Kenya feel that President Uhuru Kenyatta has neglected his backyard in terms of distribution of top appointments in his administration. Corridors has learned from the disgruntled leaders the growing feeling that the Kikuyu community has been left out in majority of State jobs and the recent Parliamentary House leadership positions. They also claim that government development projects are being launched in large scale in other regions yet the Head of State received abundant votes and support from Central Kenya. “Leave alone the numerous businesses owned by some Kikuyus, just look at how poverty has stricken majority of them at the grassroots. We deserve to be considered this time round by this regime,” one of the politicians told corridors. *****   Just who is this tenderprenuer behind the recent expose and legal battles at the Ministry of Transport’s Supplies Department. The Supplies department had established that a greedy tenderprenuer who was previously involved in the NYS tender scam has focused his attention on the Education ministry and Special Programmes food supplies and seeks to scare competition away. The trader who also fought NYS officials thrives in controversy. Click here for the latest political news