Is there any change really? I have not seen any. Uhuru just said he has retained six Cabinet Secretaries. I don't know what he was doing. What happens to the rest of the CSs? Then he has pushed Keriako Tobiko to resign, clearly signalling he does not want him as DPP. He coerced him to resign so he can replace him. If Kenyatta wanted to demonstrate he is exercising the power and authority of the President, by how he should have given a full Cabinet list. Not this confusing communication from State House which has no head or tail, just telling us he is retaining six ministers. To me it is clear Uhuru lacks the mandate to make any appointment. He needs not be told that we, NASA, need serious discussion on the way this country is to be governed. As far as we are concerned, there's no President Uhuru. We are waiting for Raila Odinga to be sworn-in as President and make appointments. This may seem far-fetched but that is what we know. None of those Uhuru purports to retain is worth retaining. None can justify their stay. What has Fred Matiang'i done? If anything, he has brought a lot of instability to the ministry of Education with unnecessary arrogance. Examinations cheating should not occupy the mind of a whole Cabinet Secretary. He is exposing our students to a bleak future. You cannot tell me only 10 per cent of our students can pass exams Why retain Henry Rotich? He's leading this economy to collapse in a short while. The signs are there. The level of borrowing is alarming even to the IMF and World Bank. The worst part is we have a Treasury that borrows and cannot put a finger on projects that the borrowed money financed. They talk of borrowing money for general budget support — which country will do that? You only borrow for specific projects because that's when you know you're getting value for money borrowed. James Macharia? The so-called SGR? Is this what Kenya bargained for? We were promised 10,000km tarmacked road. It's not there. Ndegwa Muhoro should have been removed from that position way back. Tell me any serious investigation of crime with a conclusive outcome? None. Even in a simple case, the outcome will be no evidence. You can't blame the Judiciary, it is the CID.