Kenya wants to use the East African Legislative Assembly to push for free movement of skilled labour and integration in the region. Nine representatives at the EALA’s Fourth Parliament are currently on a four-day retreat in Naivasha to iron out Kenya’s top agenda ahead of sittings resumption next Monday. MPs Simon Mbugua, Kennedy Kalonzo, Oburu Oginga, Wanjiku Muhia, Mpuru Aburi, Fatuma Ibrahim, Abdikadir Aden, Aden Noor and Florence Jematiah are attending the orientation retreat, which started on Sunday. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Mbugua, the chairman of the Kenyan chapter at the EALA, said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda will be pushed through liberalisation of free movement of skilled labour. “Uhuru has set the pace for other Presidents in the East African Community,” he said. Read: Quash differences and champion Kenya’s interests, Uhuru tells EALA MPs   Customs Union Mbugua said they will also push for the consolidation of the East African Community Customs Union with the aim of expanding the list of goods under the Single Customs Territory to cover all imports and intra-EAC traded goods. He said Kenya wants the implementation of the common market and enhanced efficiency in utilisation of natural resources. “We want improvement of agricultural productivity, value addition and facilitation of movement of agricultural goods to enhance food security in the region. This fear that Kenya stands to benefit more if the region is opened up should be cast away completely,” Mbugua said. “Once the House resumes next week, we will check if there are pending Bills from the Third Parliament and ensure there is smooth continuity.” During his inaugural speech in November last year, Uhuru announced that all Africans visiting Kenya will receive a visa on arrival with no reciprocity conditions. “From today, you [EAC citizens] will be treated like Kenyans. Like your Kenyans brothers and sisters, you will only need your ID card,” the President said. Uhuru said issuing visas on arrival will underscore Kenya’s commitment to pan-Africanism. “You shall be treated as Kenyans. If you wish, and find a willing partner, you can marry and settle in Kenya,” he said. On March 27 last year, Kenyans in Namanga demonstrated, saying Tanzanian President John Magufuli had deported their counterparts. Magufuli threw out Kenyans working and doing businesses in the country for lack of requisite documents. Several Kenyans, including those who were born in Tanzania before Independence, were told to leave if they could not provide documents validating their stay. The situation took a turn for the worse after Tanzania burned alive 6,400 Kenyan day-old chicks and auctioned 1,300 cows.  Epassport Mbugua also appealed to the six member-states to adopt the ePassport so as to enhance faster clearance at points of entry and exit. “It is my humble appeal to all the other EAC partner states through their elected representatives at the EALA to ensure each of their countries reciprocates this bold move by Kenya of embracing the ePassport,” Mbugua said. The EALA is an organ of the East African Community established in 2001 with a mandate of legislation, representation and oversight. It is constituted of nine elected members from each of the partner states. The Third Assembly wound up its tour of duty on June 4 last year. Click here for latest political news