Security agencies are hunting for five al Shabaab abductees who escaped from cells in Somalia. Sources within the security circles said the five were due to be executed by the militants for communicating with al Shabaab fugitive Ahmed Iman Ali. They suspect the five have sneaked into the country to seek refuge from the terror group. Ali, who was a vocal Al Shabaab propagandist, fell out with the leadership of the terror group in mid last year. This was after several Kenyans were executed allegedly for over spying and leaking information to Ali and the Kenyan government. Ali was against the executions as it targeted mostly Kenyan fighters, most of which he was responsible for their recruitment. Read: Residents desert border village after al Shabaab attack, put up flag The five militants, who are originally from Lamu and Malindi, are said to have been taken into custody towards the end of last year. Reports indicated that Ali is seeking asylum from the government amid several attempts by al Shabaab to kill him. Animosity and hatred has been rife within al Shabaab with intelligence reports indicating that Kenyans in the group are the most affected. At stake is that local Somali fighters, who consider Kenyans as moles for the security agents, have isolated the Kenyan foreign fighters. Al Shabaab has been fighting for years to try to topple Somalia’s central government and rule the Horn of Africa country in line with their interpretation of Islamic Law. The terror group has in the past publicly executed Kenyans who they accuse of collaborating with the Kenyan troops. Those killed in the last one year include former Moi University student Jared Mokaya Omambia, Faraj Abdulmajid, Ahmed Yusuf Hassan, Ahmed Nur Abdi Osoble, Abdullah Talal Musa, Hashim Othman Selali among many others. The mistrust between the native Al Shabaab Somali fighters and other foreign fighters has also seen the eruption of several splinter factions emerging from the group. The indigenous Somalis are in support of the establishment of ‘Somali only’ Al Shabaab group while foreign fighters have threatened to join a splinter group pledging their allegiance to the Islamic State. Also read: Police intensify search for al Shabaab who attacked Lamu buses Click here for the latest political news