The mother of a 14-year-old girl, who disappeared from a witness protection unit, wants the agency to explain her daughter 's disappearance. The minor was placed under the witness protection unit in October, following claims that she had been defiled by a police officer at the Murang'a police station. The girl had been remanded at the station after being arrested for stealing clothes at the Murang'a University of Technology. Constable Laban Njogu was accused of defiling the minor on September 30. He was on duty at the report office on that day. The officer has since been charged with the defilement. He was released on a Sh400,000 bond. The hearing of the case has been set for January 29 after the defence applied for a DNA test to be conducted and the results produced in court. The girl, whose theft case has since been dropped, was made a witness in the case. She was placed under the witness protection unit in October. The protection agency said she disappeared on December 2. “The minor walked out of the home after writing a message on her exercise book, thanking the home for taking care of her. She had expressed her dissatisfaction at being defiled and wanted to go back home,” the agency said in a statement. The mother now wants police to reveal her daughter's whereabouts. "I want the police to find my daughter because it is their responsibility to protect her. If they are unable to do that, then should bring her to me to keep her safe," she said. There have been claims that the woman is colluding with the accused officer to have the matter resolved out of court. The two were seen conversing in court on November 16. They later left the courtroom together. Police are also investigating claims that Njogu visited the woman at her home. The prosecution reprimanded and warned her against interfering with the case. The mother has since dismissed the claims. She said Njogu approached her, asking if she could have her daughter released from the witness protection unit for the matter to be resolved out of court. She said she declined the request. The minor had been arrested on suspicion of stealing clothes from Murang'a University of Technology when she was allegedly defiled by police constable Laban Njogu who was on duty at the report office. The issued was made public by a whistle blower who gave a detailed account on social media of how the police officer went into the women's cell and defiled the minor at night promising to release her if she gave in. He said he witnessed the ordeal while he was being held in the men's cells. The police scrapped her theft case and made her a witness in the defilement case against the police officer. But her mother wants the police to explain how the minor disappeared from the witness protection agency where she was to be under full time surveillance. She said her family is wondering whether there was external interference in the case that forced her daughter's disappearance but noted that the police have given her scanty information. She demanded to know the location where her daughter was being kept before she disappeared to help her retrace her daughter's steps. Speculations are however rife that the mother may be colluding with some police officers to frustrate the investigations. This is after she was seen conversing with the suspect on November 16 during a mention of the case in a Murang'a court. The two then left the court room together with the mother said to be in a seemingly good mood. The prosecution is said to have reprimanded her over her actions as she was asked to not dare interfere with the case. Sources within the police department indicate that the police are investigating claims that the accused person visited the mother at her home at St. mary's village. The minor's mother has however dismissed the claims saying that tje only time she talked to the accused was in court.  She said he approached her asking if she could have her daughter released from witness protection so that the matter can be solved out of court which she declined. "I want the police to find my daughter because it is their responsibility to protect her. If they are unable to, then I will keep her safe," she said. The hearing of the case was postponed to January 29 next year after the defense applied to have a DNA test done and results produced in court. The police officer was released on a bond of a Sh. 400,000 bond and a surety of the same amount on October 11 chief Magistrate Margret Wachira warned him against threatening the victim’s family in any way. The witness protection agency however released a press statement indicating that minors are not housed in their safe houses and that they were working with a children’s home to protect her. “The minor walked out of the home after writing a message on her exercise book thanking the home for taking care of her. She had expressed her dissatisfaction at being defined and wanted to go back home,” the agency said. The statement further indicated that the home reported that she had gone missing on December 2 and made a report in a nearby police station. The agency said that it was later discovered that she had stolen Sh. 200 and assorted clothes from other children at the home.    