Kajiado leaders
have lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for nominating former DPP  Keriako Tobiko to his Cabinet. The nomination was positively received in the county as residents said it followed their undying support of the ruling party. Keriako,
who is a brother of Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko, is among senior government
officers from the region.
 Governor Joseph
Lenku, while speaking at his Lenkisim home on Friday, thanked the president for
remembering Kajiado people. He said nomination
of Tobiko, who is a long serving government officer, is a big honour to the Maasai
community in the county.
 "Tobiko is well
qualified for a position in the cabinet. The first batch of President Kenyatta nominees
is individuals who shall steer the country ahead into development." Also read: Uhuru tricked Tobiko into Cabinet job - Mutahi Ngunyi More on this: Uhuru drops 13 Cabinet Secretaries, fires cops Kajiado West MP
George Sunkuyia said the President has
picked the right man for a Cabinet position despite massive lobbying by some
individuals. "For the last
nine years Kajiado has held the coveted position of Interior CS position that
appeared to have slipped their fingers after the death of Joseph Nkaissery but we
are now happy that the Jubilee administration has remembered us this time
round." The leaders
were at the memorial service of governor Lenku’s
father, Lenku ole Mpaa, who died three years ago. Former Kajiado West
MP Moses Sakuda in a separate statement, said he is overwhelmed by the
President’s decision. In
Mashuuru town, where Tobiko was born, the locals celebrated the
nomination with bars remaining opened throughout Friday
night. Former
assistant minister David Sankori, in a separate statement, said Tobiko’s nomination
is a big honour to the Maasai fraternity. He thanked the
President for the honour adding that Kajiado Maasai support for the ruling party
was not in vain. The immediate former DPP hails from the Orokiteng’
clan of the Kajiado Maasai. He is a lawyer who
previously served as a commissioner on the Constitution of Kenya Review
Commission. Lobbying for a
CS position started in Kajiado as early as November last year soon after
President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in to office.  A section of the leaders
in the county said the Orokiteng’ clan should be allocated a position for
voting for Uhuru in the last general election. Sankori and
nominated senator Mary Seneta lobbied for their clan saying the neighbouring Odomong’i clan
supported opposition’s Raila Odinga. The leader's statement
at that time appeared to have irked the likes of former governor David Nkedianye and former senator
Peter Mositet, who are from the Odomong’i clan. Nkedianye came
out in protest after the media highlighted the concerns of the Orokiteng’s
clansmen ahead of the Cabinet nominations. The politician, who was beaten in the August 8 governor elections, accused the media of driving a wedge between the Maasai clans. Read: Black Cows and Red Cows clans fight for Uhuru Cabinet positions Click
here for the latest political news 