MPs from Rift Valley want the government to release Sh2 Billion owed to farmers by the NCPB for maize deliveries within a week. Hundreds of farmers are still queuing at the NCPB depot in Eldoret to deliver more maize. The board has so far bought 1.3 million bags of maize from farmers. MPs from the region led Moiben MP Sila Tiren demanded that farmers should be paid the cash before January 10 so that they can use part of the money to pay fees. Read : Farmers tell NCPB to pay up Sh800m owed for maize “We promised farmers that they will be paid promptly for maize deliveries. We should not let them down especially at this time when they need money for fees and other issues”, said Tiren. He said Treasury should give the board all the Sh6 Billion that has been set side for maize purchase. Farmers say they were last paid on December 5th and promises that more cash would be given have not yielded anything. So far the board has paid out Sh 1.6 Billion to the farmers since the purchase started in November. CS for Agriculture Willy Bett two weeks ago visited the NCPB depot in Eldoret whe he said the government had adequate money to buy all maize from farmers as directed by President Kenyatta. “We want farmers to deliver all their maize to the board and we will ensure that they are paid as quickly as possible”, said Bett. The board is buying the maize at Sh 3,200 per 90 kg bag and Bett has discouraged farmers from selling their produce to middlemen. Yesterday Director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said farmers were getting impatient because there was no clear communication from the board as concerns the payments. Also read : NCPB buys 300,000 bags of maize “Some of the farmers may now be forced to sell their maize to middlemen at lower prices because they need money at the moment as schools reopen and they also need to start planning early for the new planting season this year”, said Menjo. NCPB CEO Newton Terer was expected to meet Bett and Treasury officials over the payment to avert threats by some farmers to carry out demonstrations demanding payments.  Click here for latest political news