In a field one summer’s day a grasshopper was hopping about, chirping and singing to its heart’s content. A group of ants passed by, bearing with great toil an ear of corn they were taking to the nest. “Why not come and chat with me,” asked the grasshopper, “instead of toiling and moiling in that way?” “We are helping to lay up food for the winter,” said the ants, “and recommend you to do the same.” “Why bother about winter?” asked the grasshopper, We have got plenty of food at present.” But the ants went on their way and continued their toil. When the winter came the grasshopper had no food and found itself dying of hunger — while it saw the ants distributing corn and grain from the stores they had collected in the summer. Then the grasshopper realised: There is a time to play and a time to work. Many who have read my column in the past know that I am a greater champion and supporter of devolution. This is because I have seen devolution at work, transforming the lives of Kenyans step by step. As we start 2018, we must look at the second lot of county governments as a stepping stone to development and prosperity, especially of local economies. Over the last couple of weeks, a large number of Kenyans have been singing the praises of one of the 47 governors — Kivutha Kibwana of Makueni. This month alone, Kibwana has shown that devolution can indeed work and to the benefit of the local mwananchi as was the intention of the drafters of our Constitution and Kenyans in general. Kibwana commissioned the Makueni Fruit Processing Plant, which will see the farmers in the county reap direct benefits. Mangoes are a major produce in Makueni and most farmers always ended up throwing them away due to lack of markets. Days after this launch, Kibwana launched the Kikima Dairy Plant, which is producing and packaging the milk branded ‘Makueni Fresh’. This has also opened a new market for the farmers in Makueni who at times had to waste the milk or sell it at throwaway prices. Local economies must learn to sustain themselves as independent entities so as not to be overly reliant on national government funds. The governors must evaluate the strengths of their economies to ensure that they prioritise programmes that build these areas. These priorities must be aimed at directly benefiting the local mwananchi through job creation and economic empowerment. Devolution should work during this second phase given the teething problems experienced in the first phase have been largely been addressed. There is no reason why locals should lack markets for their produce or clean water to drink and cook with. Access to healthcare must also be a priority for the county governments as should improving education facilities. Once the county governments prove they can use the little they have to prioritise human development, attracting assistance from development partners will not be a hard thing to do, which will see them prosper. Voters have a bigger role to play in all this. Wananchi must realise that it is their votes that put the leaders in the positions of power and hold them to account. When called for public participation, we must take part and make our voices heard to ensure our priorities are known. Locals must push their senators to reexamine laws on devolution and seal gaps so county government policies meet the goals of devolution. The second batch of senators must rise to the occasion and focus on enhancing devolution and protecting it. Members of the county assemblies have an even a higher calling on devolution. They must provide oversight to the governors and their executives to ensure that all that is done is aimed at uplifting the lives of the local mwananchi. There is no reason why devolution should not work for the betterment of the local mwananchi. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda