The 2018 Kenya Open Golf Championship will have an increased total prize kitty of 500,000 euros (Sh62.5m). This represents a 127 percent increase from last year’s kitty of 220,000 euros, making the Kenya Open the most lucrative event on the European Challenge Tour calendar. Making the announcement yesterday, the Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) chairman Peter Kanyago, said the increase followed a directive by His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta during the 2017 tournament. At the conclusion of the 2017 Barclays Kenya Open, His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that his government would work together with the Kenya Open Golf Ltd, partners and sponsors to raise the standard of the Championship and by extension the standards of golf talent development in Kenya. The President’s directive was aimed at raising the bar of the Championship, increasing participation of local players and attracting a higher calibre of players from across the globe. The President was also keen on development of the junior golf across the country. Following the directive, KOGL held consultations with the ministries of sports and tourism, Nairobi City County, Kenya Tourism Board, Brand Kenya Board and Sports Kenya. KOGL is also having consultations with other sponsors including Barclays Bank, Kenya Breweries, Safaricom and Coca-Cola among others. “As a board, we have worked very hard to maintain the standards of this event for 50 years now, and I must thank the KGU, our sponsors, our host clubs, the volunteers and the golf fraternity for supporting this event tirelessly. As we celebrate 50 years, we are opening a new chapter in 2018 and beyond, and we will once again call on all these stakeholders to continue supporting us as we work together to deliver an even bigger championship for the benefit of golf in Kenya,” said Kanyago. Speaking at the same function, Sports Principal Secretary, Ambassador Kirimi Kaberia said that the Government is committed to supporting the growth of golf in Kenya. “As the Ministry of Sports, we remain committed to support the Kenya Open Golf Championship and the various development programs of the KGU,” he said. “We also commend the KGU and KOGL for hosting the Kenya Open for 50 years now. This is a great milestone that is built on the back of good governance and accountability,” he added. Tourism Principal Secretary, Fatuma Hirsi, said the Kenya Open has contributed immensely to the promotion of Kenya as a golf tourism destination, adding that it continues to play a critical role in positioning Kenya as the preferred golf destination in the region. “Kenya offers a unique golf tourism product. We have international standard golf courses and resorts, magnificent weather throughout the year and affordable green fees at our golf courses. The Kenya Open has played a huge role in showcasing golf to the world and for that reason, it remains an important event for the Ministry of Tourism, KTB and our country,” she said.