Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici was on Saturday elected the Kenya Women Parliamentary Association (KEWOPA) chairperson. Roza Buyu, the Kisumu woman representative, was elected the vice chairperson in the National Assembly while nominated senator Miliscent Omanga was elected vice chairperson in the Senate .  Ngirici takes over from Cecily Mbarire while Buyu replaces Zainab Chidzuga for a five year tenure. Omanga takes over from Naisula Lesuuda (now MP for Samburu West) as vice chairperson in the Senate.  The elections were conducted during the 12th KEWOPA Parliament Induction workshop at Enashapai hotel, Naivasha. "I wish to congratulate the newly elected chairperson of @KEWOPA Hon.Purity Wangui Ngirici and the entire Executive Committee.I wish you well as you take KEWOPA to the next level," Mbarire tweeted.  Millie Odhiambo was elected vice chairperson in charge of Women Caucus while Mishi Mboko was elected secretary. Charity Chepkwony was elected vice secretary while Tecla Tum was elected treasurer. Others are Beatrice Adagala (vice treasurer), Alice Wahome (chair, Leading Women Caucus), Lilian Tomitom (Youth) and Getrude Inimah (PWDs). Also elected are Abshiro Halake (chair, Senators), Prof Margaret Kamar (chair, elected senators) and Prof Jacquline Oduol - chair, nominated MPs.    KEWOPA is a membership association of all women parliamentarians drawn from across all political parties - both elected and nominated- in the Senate and National Assembly. The mission of the association is to promote the advancement of parliarmentary democracy by enhancing knowledge and understanding of democratic governance. The group also facilitates the networking of women parliamentarians for the socio-economic and political development of Kenya. KEWOPA achievements in both houses include contribution towards the realization of the family Marriage Act 2014 and the Matrimonial Property Act 2013 and Protection Against Domestic Violence Act. The association is also credited for spearheading the push for the realization of the two thirds gender principle as proposed by the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2015. Other achievements include the development of the gender responsive budgeting guidelines for Parliament and the development of a Members Handbook on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights. Click here for the latest political news    