The role of tourism in Kenya’s social and economic development cannot be gainsaid. Next to agriculture, tourism is the second-largest source of foreign exchange revenue. In 2016, travel and tourism contributed 9.8 per cent to the GDP. Tourism has many facets. It has considerable impact on the growth of sectors such as agriculture, fishing, transport, banking and financial services. Overall, it is a source of both direct and indirect employment. Tourism was identified as one of the major sectors in the Vision 2030 economic blueprint, which aims at transforming the country into a newly industrialising, middle-income country in a clean a secure environment. Projects under this banner include development of niche products, development of resort cities, cradle of mankind, premium parks initiative and meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions. The number of tourists fluctuates every year depending on the prevailing security atmosphere, much of which is influenced by politics or terrorism. Tourism numbers peaked in 2011 at 1.8 million. The preceding period was quite lean following the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in Nairobi. In the aftermath, Western nations, which comprise the core source markets, issued travel warnings against Kenya. Kenya’s tourism potential has barely been scratched. It beats explanation how Spain, a country much smaller than Kenya, with no comparable flora and fauna, gets tens of millions of tourists every year. Kenya is yet to reach the two million mark. In 2016, for instance, 75.3 million tourists visited Spain, contributing 11 per cent of its GDP. The answer lies in ingenuity, innovativeness and how we package, market and sell our tourism products. It is only with decentralisation that Kenya is now working towards diversification, away from the staple tourism offer consisting of wildlife safaris, sun and sand. Each of the 47 counties is now trying to leverage on its uniqueness in a bid to get a big number of tourists, particularly the previously ignored domestic market. For example, Kirinyaga county has contemplated the development of a multibillion-shilling resort city to boost the hitherto dormant tourism market. The resort is expected to open up Mt Kenya National Park through the development of high-end tourism facilities, including water sports, amusement parks and an 18-hole golf course. Indeed, we need to move away from the beaten track. One way of doing this is to be adventurous, to think as a tourist does in searching for an ideal destination that offers value for money. What thrills can we offer that can make tourists want to undergo the same experience every year? We need to identify holistic experiences that capture both the imagination and intellect of our visitors. The Kenya Tourist Board has started the Magical Kenya initiative, which attempts to capture this idea. It involves identifying niche attractions at the national and county levels. And this is not just for the foreign market. The continued interest by Kenyans in savouring the delights of their country has been a boon for the domestic tourism market. Kenyans now yearn to discover the natural marvels of their country and are patronising their own hotel establishments. Kenya has forests that have unsurpassed flora and fauna. Tourists can visit Kakamega Forest in Western as part of trekking safaris. Our major lakes can be developed for water sports such as yachting and fishing. We can even establish farm tourism, where visitors can live in cottages next to active farming communities in Central and Rift Valley. Tourists do not have to go to the Coast simply to enjoy the sun and sand. Some of our pristine beaches are ideally suited for competitive beach sports such as volleyball and football. The Sports ministry can work towards attracting international tournaments for such activities. Kenya must cast her net wider. We are not leveraging enough on our development cooperation with the Far East, especially China, with whom we seem to have established a mutual chemistry. We have spent billions of dollars procuring Chinese goods and services, and I believe that China would not hesitate to encourage its citizens to come and enjoy the efficiency created by its infrastructural projects.  The writer is the
Senator, Kirinyaga County, and Chairman of the Standing Committee on Tourism,
Trade and Industrialisation. He is also a member of the Sessional Committee on
County Public Accounts and Investments. 