George Orwell predicted 1984 would be the year when authoritarian rulers were going to take over the running of our lives, and civil rights would all be put in the coolers wherever democracy had existed. It was in 1949 when he wrote his dystopian novel called 1984 soon after the Second World War. In our own generation, the real 1984 came and went, and many ruling classes have become increasingly intolerant of democracy, whether these top dogs have emerged from the left or the right. But citizens have not given up. News on popular struggles for democracy litters the screens of television channels in diverse languages spoken on this earth almost on an hourly basis.  The question is: who watches? And if some watch, do they really care? And if they care, what actions do they take? One would have thought that the revolution in media outreach and penetration should have had an equally important revolution on popular awareness on the ills of bad governance, and hence, more effective popular organisation to deepen democracy and the rule by the people.  But the opposite effect of massive bombardment of sitting rooms with news and information of all kinds is that a large mass of people only pay attention to or enjoy, trivia for instant gratification. The modern citizen has become a global person, an artificial creation by the media in terms of taste, culture, values, priorities and, sadly enough, political choice.  What Raila Odinga recently called “vifaranga vya computa” may not be peculiar to Kenya’s 2017 presidential elections. It could very well be a major subject to be studied by political scientists in terms of “political engineering in authoritarian states” from now on. Aldous Huxley’s artificial citizen may have arrived earlier than he had earlier predicted. Aldous Huxley, an English author, wrote another dystopian novel in 1931 predicting a Brave New World by 2540, when science and technology will completely take control of human beings from reproduction to psychological conditioning, division of labour in society, etc.  If society wanted to get brilliant lawyers, by 2540 there would be no need to teach a whole bunch of people law, some of whom have no natural acumen for legal argument: Not at all. Society would simply select some gene types and breed them as lawyers. That is, genetically modified people (GMPs) will be the way to go in the scientific and technologically efficient societies of the future. Still worth reading, and noting that we are yet 522 years away from 2540, you will be surprised at how this horror story, hatched out of the macabre mind of Huxley, actually predicted some of the things we are experiencing today — at least five centuries before their predicted birthdays!  But these artificial citizens are not being produced by genetic engineering: Not at all. They are the products of media, social media, trinkets, gadgets, mobile phones and all that paraphernalia that passes for popular culture.  The mobile phone is a marvellous thing. But the software behind it, or those softwares that express themselves through it, are even more amazing! Just imagine how many things you can do today sitting in your house the whole day and going nowhere. Do your banking, pay bills, call a friend abroad, order food to be delivered to you, have a vital board meeting, etc. You could not have done this 20 years ago. Fine.  Now think about what your nine-year-old child can do with her mobile phone at lunch break while at school, away from the watch of her teachers. Befriend some 47-year-old creep on the phone, watch pornographic videos, subscribe to some gambling club, quarrel with some friends and abuse them, send a ‘love you’ message to mummy, etc. Then you pick the kids up from school and you are driving them home. You have your phone on the dashboard. The eldest child is sitting in the passenger’s seat next to you texting, texting. In the back seat the other two nursery school children are playing some games on their laptops. When they came into the car you did not even see them since you were also busy on your phone booking a flight to Mombasa. It takes about 20 minutes to reach home. All that time, there has been no family interaction except at the gas station where you fill up the car and buy the kids some ice cream. The conversation is simply a question and a chorus of an answer. “Kids, what flavours do you want today?” The kids say, “Vanilaaa!” The scene does not change much at home as the kids disappear into their rooms, watch TV there, and may perhaps come to the dinner table with mobile phones in their hands. You don’t know how well your kids are doing at school but you expect them to get good grades and make it to university. You make it very clear to the teachers on parents’ day that as parents, you will not tolerate poor performance at school.  Teachers are intimidated. They give everybody good grades, from the last one to number one. They all get prizes, from the best student in mathematics to the most improved student in keeping the desk clean. Of course, the desk is clean because the kid rarely uses it for any serious work! When all these kids get to university, they arrive with the attitude that hard work does not really matter and grades make no difference. The lecturers see so many such cases that it becomes gradually accepted that what matters is to get these guys in and graduate them in the end. And since these guys are so smart at using their phones to Google everything, there is really no exam they can fail. They go into the exam room and Google all the answers. The lecturer is not wrong to pass all of them. At the work place, things are different. A guy arrives with a First Class honours Bachelor of Commerce degree, specialising in marketing. He arrives in Accra to represent his company in an international conference and is too scared to read and discuss his company’s contribution. When his turn comes he fakes sickness and asks the company’s public relations officer to do his job in exchange for one extra day’s travel allowance.  On getting back, the guy is too ashamed to stay on the job. He resigns only after one month explaining to his parents that he cannot work in a company where it is impossible to make any changes! “Daddy, I can’t make any impact in this company. I can’t make any difference. I can’t take it any more”. And that is only after one month! Nobody is really thinking, neither the kids nor ourselves. We are all WhatsApping, like Huxley’s genetically modified human beings.  Don’t you get it, Dear readers? Machines are running and ruining our lives because we are not in charge of the machines: They are taking charge of our time, our priorities, our family interactions and communication and our national ethos.  We are crazy about instant gratification. Whoever told you that civilisations are built that way? And that is the problem with Kenya today. We are involved in a process of change we have not taken charge of. We have been unable to domesticate the wonderful achievements of science and technology into a “Project Kenya” that identifies us as human beings with shared values, knowledge, culture and identity. I only see, running hither and thither, Huxley’s artificial citizen chasing instant gratification everywhere. Money for money’s sake, or for power, pomp and ‘difference — not for building a civilisation. The internet and social media seem to be setting the agenda everywhere. Things come up instantly and disappear instantly. We feel the urge to keep up with the conversation, from one idea to the other. “What’s up mehn?”  When I was a graduate student in Chicago in the 1970s, this was the language of our Black brothers and sisters. It was meant to solicit conversation not to be the conversation itself. Now we may be in danger of doing nothing else but inviting conversation every second of our lives. And the invitation never ends as if life never begins. Machines, trinkets, mobile phones and iPads are giving birth to the artificial citizen that Huxley dreamt of under authoritarian regimes, where meaningful political discourse is also an endangered specie!  Are we living in Huxley’s 2540 or in Kenya of 2018?    The writer is Kisumu Governor