Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny has warned that NASA risks causing chaos with its plan to swear in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. The opposition, which is laying claim to the presidency after rejecting the October 26 election, has planned an oath ceremony on January 30. Read: NASA, Jubilee talk tough ahead of Raila swearing But Kuttuny warned against the move asking NASA leaders to respect President Uhuru Kenyatta and his "legitimately elected government". "A clever NASA team member
should be planning on how to battle with William Ruto in
2022," the MP said on Monday. He spoke at Chepsiro-Kiptoror ward, Trans Nzoia county during Abraham Biir's homecoming. "Where will
you sleep after the oath? It is automatic the president should occupy
the state house which Uhuru is already in. We are tired of this nonsense." Kuttuny exuded the confidence that the government is stable adding that NASA's activities will not destabilise
it. He said the
Jubilee team's focus is on how Ruto will succeed Uhuru in 2022 and asked NASA to also focus on the same. "You cannot
continue threatening the government of the day. If there is any issue over the
government, there are procedures to be followed," the MP said. "Remember, some us come from cosmopolitan areas and NASA’s planned oath can cause
animosity." Kuttuny urged Uhuru to continue with his
work and not to be intimidated by any force. "IEBC
announced him (Uhuru) the winner and gave him the certificate. The procedure was
followed by him taking the oath before the Chief Justice." His
sentiments were backed by MPs Caleb Kositany (Soy), Robert Pukose (Endebess), and Michael
Mbito (Senator Trans Nzoia). Kositany asked NASA to name their presidential
candidate to fight it out with Ruto in 2022. NASA, on the other hand, has maintained that Raila and Kalonzo's January 30 oath will proceed as planned. The
alliance is planning to use August 8 election results, which they claim showed that Raila defeated Uhuru.  Click here for the latest political news