If this was meant to be a fight for electoral justice, it probably achieved more than it set out to. It also brought out a truth that we always ignore; that Raila's slum-level supporters understand him much better than his middle and upper-class supporters, who may be witnessing a serious revolution, but instead get busy asking why there are no chairs at the venue; why the PA system is not as good as Rihana's during her last performance in San Diego! Simply put, the vanity of a perceived educated supporter is mind-boggling, at a time when the low-level supporter just comes out and supports the cause unequivocally. Anyway, several things were firmly dispensed with on Tuesday that made the Raila swearing-in a complete success. Raila finally took charge of his support base in a formal covenant. This base is reputed to be in the region of 60 per cent of the country, a potent, multi-tribal mass that no politician, past and present, has ever built up. The meaning of this is that even without a State House and State largesse, President Raila can now determine what his half of the country does, from whether to pay taxes to an illegitimate regime or not, whether to chart a secessionist path or how to redefine our choices. No other election will ever be stolen. Simply put, the consequences for stealing elections have become too grave. Two unrelated things: The police failed to show up but the media was shut down! I celebrate these two. Both of them manifest a collapsing system. They are testimony to the fact that the police wouldn’t be of help, so let’s stop the world seeing it! Imagine that, for a moment. That the regime didn't want the people to see Raila taking the oath! You are onto something here: The only reason a regime stops you seeing anything is because it has lost control of the population! If there was any perceived support that Raila received via his co-principals, that myth was buried yesterday. By proceeding with the oath alone, Raila used a gentle but Machiavellian move to consolidate all his support by “direct loyalty”. Tuesday confirmed that Jubilee has no formula to deal with Raila. And this means that if Raila chooses, he can finish Jubilee within the coming months. Raila is untouchable! And Joho is the Heir Apparent. The writer is a political commentator