The High Court has ordered Brazilian brown sugar importer Sony Sugar to deposit Sh2billion as security for a consignment of 50,500 metric tonnes. Justice George Odunga made the ruling after an application by activist Okiya Omtatah last week asking the court to order the company to pay the KRA the amount equivalent to the consignment. “I order that Sony Sugar company pays Sh2 billion as the security duty within 14 days and appear before court on January 22 for complaisance of the payment,” Odunga said. Last Thursday, Justice Roselyne Aburili declined to review orders in the suit challenging the importation of Brazilian brown sugar by Sony Sugar, saying she lacked jurisdiction since the matter is being handled by another court. Omtatah had asked the court to allow him to file further affidavits to support the main petition, saying he had discovered massive fraud in the importation of the brown sugar. He also wanted to amend the list of respondents. Omtatah stated that on December 18, 2017, a consignment of 50,500 metric tonnes of Brazilian brown sugar under the name of Sony Sugar was shipped in, “but the documents on record have been falsified to show the consignment was loaded on the ship on October 9, 2017 and sailed on October 12”. “The respondent tries to evade payment of the import duty by squeezing their fraudulent operations under the period which they backdated the documents to October 12, 2017,” he said. Omtatah said despite being the petitioner, Sony Sugar has not served him with any undertaking the sugar will be safe despite being offloaded. He has also not been told in which warehouse the sugar is being held. “Since there is no security offered to ensure compliance, I ask the court to revisit the varied orders and order Sony Sugar to provide security in the amount equivalent to full duty payable to the entire consignment calculated by the KRA,” he said. Omtatah alleged the KRA, Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Authority and Kebs committed fraud by approving and clearing the customs entry lodged by Sony on December 18. Last year,Justice John Mativo granted temporary prohibitory orders that the sugar aboard the MV Holy, should not be processed, cleared or released pending the hearing and determination of the case.            