President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday joined fellow leaders at a summit of the African Union Assembly. The opening of the 30th Ordinary Session of the Assembly at the AU headquarters in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, was preceded by hours of closed-door talks centred on AU reforms. The reform measures, crafted by a panel led by Rwandan President Paul Kagame, centre around enhanced financial contributions and greater efficiency at the AU Commission in Ethiopia. "Kenya strongly supports the reforms at the African Union as that is the surest way to ensure the Union, its Commission, organs and agencies are fit for purpose and well-equipped to deliver on the ambitious aspirations of the African People as spelt out in Agenda 2063," Uhuru said. Read: Uhuru appeals to African states for more funding, military backing to fight terrorism The closed session also endorsed progress on a Continental Free Trade Area. Kenya is among the leading campaigners for free movement of people and goods in Africa. "I'm encouraged to note that more than 20 countries, including my own, are currently implementing the 0.2 per cent levy on eligible imports as reported. Equally encouraging, is the fact that the Commission and the Reform Implementation Unit have customised flexible financial options in recognition of individual country circumstances," Uhuru said. Guinea’s President Alpha Condé also emphasised on the need to consolidate the Continental Free Trade Area to promote intra-Africa trade.President Condé also said Africa needs to address its chronic budget deficit. “We cannot continue to depend on financial aid for our programmes. It is important for Africa to take its destiny in its hands and fund its transformation agenda,” he said.African Union Commission chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat urged African countries to work together and support peace initiatives in South Sudan, Somalia and other countries experiencing turmoil. “Africa must work together to entrench integration and guarantee speedy reforms of the African Union,” Faki said. UN Secretary-General António Guterres said he is working on strengthening the partnership between the AU and the UN, especially in peace and security in Africa. In South Sudan, Guterres said the UN has aligned its position with the AU and IGAD. He said the partnership is important to build a safe world. “UN fully supports Africa’s initiatives for peace and reconciliation across the continent,” he said. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta is also in Addis Ababa to attend the 20th General Assembly of Organization of African First Ladies Against Aids. Related: Trump eats humble pie, lauds African nations after ‘shithole’ remark Click here for the latest political news