Kenya 15’s team will hold their training camp mid next month in readiness for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers later in the year. The training camp was supposed to start last month but was delayed after the Kenya Rubgy Union (KRU) parted ways with South African tactician Jerome Paarwater. The sponsor, SportPesa exit also forced KRU to restructure their operations and delay some of their programmes. Further trainings camps will be held in March, April and May with the qualifiers set to kick-off in June. Kenya face Morocco on June 23 before hosting Zimbabwe a week later on June 30. They will then host neighbours Uganda on July 7 and meet Tunisia on August 11. They take on Namibia away on July 18 in their final match. KRU secretary genral, Oduor Gangla, said they are still on course with their targets for the team’s preparations ahead of qualifiers. “We are still on course as you are aware and we are undertaking some restructuring at the union. That has delayed the assembling of the national team for the World Cup assignments but I think we will be good to go in mid February.” Gangla remained tight lipped on the appointment of a new coach for the Kenya Simbas. Sources familiar with the situation have hinted that the union have approached—Wales, France, South Africa and Australia for a coach, who meets the criteria set out for national team. Gangla could not confirm or deny the bit. “You will know in due course. We must follow the right channels in regard to appointment,” he hinted. Gangla hailed the performance of the Kenya Sevens team after reaching the quarter-finals of the Sydney Sevens last weekend. “I must congratulate the boys considering the kind of environment the union is operating. The boys have been patient and fully understand the challenges we face in regards to sponsorship,” added Gangla. In matters regarding the ongoing strike between the union and the Kenya Rugby referees Society (KRRS), Gangla was hopeful a solution will be reached by both parties soon. There has been a hue and cry by some of the Kenya Cup clubs over the standards of officiation in the past fortnight with questionable calls by some of the replacements referees who have been handed duties for matches.