The Nyayo National Stadium will be ready for its first match in the first week of April. The facility was initially set to be ready in December before the country was deprived of the rights to host the Chan Championships. Following the decisiion by Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) Executive Committee to take the hosting rights to Morocco, Sports Kenya’s momentum in having the facility ready in December slowed down with sports Principal Secretary, Kirimi Kaberia blaming poor weather and the long electioneering period. The contracted company awarded the tender to refurbish the facility, Laxmi International, guided Kaberia thorough different areas they are working on and confirmed that the venue will be ready by the first week of April. Kaberia inspected the ongoing works and later expressed his delight at the pace at which the work is being executed. “I am impressed with the work the company has done so far and they have confirmed to me that the packing lot will be ready by the end of the month. Generally, the stadium will be ready by the end of March and ready for the first match in the first week of April. There were delays in September as you are aware it was a period of showers which slowed the momentum of the job.The electioneering period also slowed the human labour as the contractor could not get enough man power. Nevertheless, he has assured me the facility will be ready by April. Nyayo Stadium was closed for renovations alongside Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, Kinoru Stadium Meru and Kipchoge Keino Stadium Eldoret. Further, Kaberia said he had met the federations affected by the withdrawal of SportPesa from all local partnerships and assured the affected of the government’s support. “We had a successful meeting with the affected federations and advised them accordingly. We agreed on how the federations will enter into agreements with sponsors in future. I assured them of the government’s support. Even the affected clubs will get support from the government.” The PS also confirmed the government’s plan to pay the entities who delivered goods and services for the IAAF World U-18 Championships in last year. Kaberia said the three remaining firms will be paid their dues once their payments are processed. “There are three entities, who are yet to receive their money and I can confirm they will be paid once the money is processed. Payments will be done to firms who were contracted to either do supply or render services.”