As the sporting fraternity struggles to take their sponsorship woes into their stride, Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) have been compelled to move the Commonwealth Games trials from Kenyatta International Convention Centre (KICC) to Nairobi’s Kaloleni Social Hall. BAK President said the decision has been occasioned by the withdrawal of their title sponsors Sportpesa from all sporting sponsorships. BAK were among thesports entities which benefited from the long term sponsorships from the betting giants. Others were the Kenya Rugby Union, AFC Leopards, Gor Mahia, Super 8, and Kenya Premier League Limited among others. “It’s quite a tough decision to make but again we have to soldier on and take it in our stride. It’s quite unfortunate that we lost our major sponsorship and we appeal to the government to re-consider the tough tax rules on the betting firms,” said Kameta. Kameta announced that the event will serve as trials for the Team Kenya to the 2018 Commonwealth Games to be held in Australia in April this year.  “Four finalists from each bout category of the league will have equal opportunity to proceed to the next level of the selection process,” said the boxing supremo. Nairobi, who directly benefited from the three-year BAK/Sportpesa partnership through logistical support also recounted their disappointment. Nairobi BAK Official and technical expert, Musa Benjamin, said Nairobi’s participation in the BAK organised events also hang in the balance. “The tough decision by Sportpesa and the recent night ban on public transport now puts us in a catch 22 as we can hardly meet most of our monetary and logistical obligations,” said Musa who is also a former Kenya junior team coach. Among boxers expected to participate in the trials are Harrison Mathuku of Prisons, Kenya Defence Forces trio of bantamweight Isaac Meja, flyweight Simon Mulinge and middleweight Nick Abaka. Abaka, a longstanding Kenya team mainstay, has had to play second fiddle to Elly Ajowi of Police since moving up to light heavyweight class. He will be at it to redeem his image and indeed fight for a national team slot. Former Kenyan international Black Moses Mathenge of KDF will be seeking to make Team Kenya team “Hit Squad” slot.  The trials will pick four boxers in each of the 10 men’s weight category and women’s classes, who will be whittled down to a final squad well in time for the games slated for Gold Coast.