Courts order a recount of votes in 131 poling stations in a case challenging governor Khaemba’s victory after a lawyer questioned certainty of DRs report on previous scrutiny There was a heated debate in Kitale high court today during the hearing of a petition case challenging Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba’s reelection. Peter Wanyama an advocate representing Governor Khaemba had filed an application to have a recount of votes in 131 polling stations. This comes after the court in December 7 had ordered a scrutiny of forms 37A, 37B and 37C. The petitioners in the case through their lawyer Stephen Gitonga had issued an application to have a recount of votes, but the court through justice Anthony Mrima ordered a partial scrutiny of forms 37S, 37B and 37C that were used to declare Governor Khaemba the winner. However lawyer Wanyama dismissed the Director of Registrars scrutiny report before the court saying that it had a lot of uncertainties, therefore issuing an application to have recount of votes and scrutiny of form 37A,37B and 37C in 131 poling stations. Wanyama also wanted the court to allow IEBC to conduct the recount as the deputy registrar supervises the process. “My Lord I am not undermining anyone but we lawyers cannot handle the process of recount, I suggest if we do the recount then it should be conducted by the IEBC,” he told the court. But the lawyer representing the petitioners Stephen Gitonga argued that the constitution permits only the DR to conduct such exercise. Another Key issue raised by Wanyama challenging the Deputy registrar’s report was that, she did not conduct the tallying of the forms in the presence of the parties. It emerged out that during the last day of the scrutiny process, there were threats of a planned attack on the officials conducting the process which made them to leave the center earlier to unknown destination. “My Lord there were threats during the last day of the process of armed men who had planned to attack the center, this made the deputy registrar and her officials to leave and we were not part of the tallying process therefore we are not sure of the report ” said Wanyama. According to the deputy registrar report in the 131 polling station there were ballot boxes that had missing form 37A and some of the forms were not signed by the Presiding officers and some 37A were pested outside the ballot boxes. Wanyama argued that if the forms are not signed it is not a violation of law, he also argued that the court does not understand under what circumstances were the forms not put inside the ballot boxes saying that such will not only affect his client but all candidates. He also raised question on the deputy registrar report that indicated that there are 643 poling stations in Trans Nzoia instead of 639. In his application Wanyama wants a recount of 131 poling stations where according to the dr report form 37A are missing so as to confirm if the votes garnered in those particular ballot boxes are similar with entries in form 37B and 37C. “Also in those that form 37A is completely missing I wish the entries in the tallying forms to be used in comparing the results against form37B and 37C if they tally,” he said in his application. The lawyer representing 1st and 2nd respondents Zephaniah Yego argued that the deputy registrar went beyond her mandate. “The report is only supposed to assist the court and not to unleash irregularities,” said Yego. In his ruling justice Mrima ordered the deputy registrar to conduct a recount of the valid votes, disputed votes, rejected/objected to ballot papers and rejected ballot papers in the ballot boxes. He also ordered for the deputy registrar to ascertain if there was proper transposition of the entries in forms 37A, 37B and 37c. Justice Mrima said that the Trans Nzoia County Commander administration police and police service shall jointy provide adequate security during the exercise. The highlighting of written submission will be heard on 7 February. Click here for the latest political news