Pushed out of the CBD, hawkers have taken over key roundabouts and roads, worsening already serious congestion and traffic jams. They are moving away from the city centre to avoid clashing with City Hall askaris who have been ordered to drive them out of the CBD. The newly built Outering Road has been turned into a new open-air market. Hawkers have occupied the Thika Road-Outering Ring Road, causing massive traffic gridlock. Juja Road-Outering Road, Jogoo Road-Outering roundabouts and the area near Taj Mall in Embakasi are a hawkers’ paradise. They have also taken over Sonko Road near Mutindwa in Buru Buru. The vendors sell their wares on the roads. Hawkers have occupied an entire lane on Haile Selassie Avenue near Wakulima Market. Movement on the stretch is virtually impossible. “I have been stuck here for more than two hours. Hawkers should be removed from here,” Rembo Sacco matatu driver Francis Nzioki said. The hawkers sell bottled water, toys, CDs, fruits, vegetables, second-hand clothes, jewellery and second-hand cutlery. Licensed traders protest “Nairobi belongs to all of us. We have to survive. The county government must look for a way of accommodating us, otherwise, we will continue like this,” hawker Tom Njuhia at Juja Road-Outering roundabout said. County inspectorate officers have been cracking down on the vendors in the city centre, following an outcry by licensed traders and the public. But a spot check by the Star in the past week showed it is business as usual for the hawkers. A majority come to the streets in the evening to evade askaris who clock off at 5pm. Askaris overstretched The hawkers occupy Moi Avenue, Tom Mboya, Ronald Ngala, River Road and Mfangano Street. They spread their wares on the pavement near the fire station on Tom Mboya and in front of shops along the streets. County director of operations Peter Mbaya said the crackdown has pushed many hawkers out of the CBD, but said he is not aware of new markets near roads outside the city centre. “I have to talk to out commanders to confirm this. But I can assure, we will follow them wherever they will be,” he said. Concerning Wakulima Market, Mbaya said he has stationed askaris there, but they leave in the afternoon to maintain order in the upper CBD. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has been in the spotlight over his failure to tackle the hawkers’ menace. Last week, he promised to kick vendors out of the CBD in 30 to 60 days. Sonko said he is still engaging stakeholders, among them the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on how to relocate the hawkers.