More than 5,000 pupils have not returned to school because of banditry in Baringo county. A number of schools remain closed. A series of bandit attacks prompted the shutdown early last year. Meanwhile, 180 pupils of Mukutani Primary School in Baringo South have sought temporary enrolment in Ol Samburmbur Primary School in Marigat. They stay with their parents at the Eldume IDP camp. The pupils were among more than 800 Ilchamus residents who were displaced after Pokot bandits launched a retaliatory attack on Mukutani Full Gospel Church on March 14 last year. During the attack, 11 people were killed, several others were injured, more than 1,500 livestock were stolen, shops were looted and more than 100 houses torched. Marigat-based human rights activists Amos Olempaka yesterday said more than 5,000 pupils and more than 10,000 families have yet to be resettled after they were displaced.  widespread anxiety Kenya National Union of Teachers branch executive secretary Joshua Cheptarus said although some schools have opened, pupils and teachers still fear for their lives. He urged the national and county governments of Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot to fix the problem. Schools that have not opened in Baringo South are Rugus, Mukutani and Noosukro. Some schools have opened but still face security threats. They are Nyimbei, Kasiela, Kapndasim, Chebinyiny, Arabal, Chemorongion, Kapkechir, Keon, Kapkechir and Sinoni, Ramacha and Karma. Others are Katilimwo, Kapndsum, Chemorongion, Embosos, Arabal, Chebinyiny, Sosionte, Nyimbei, Kasiela, Tuiyotich, Lamaiwe, Karne and Kabel, Rugus, Noosukro and Siarata in Baringo South, In Baringo North, Chepkesin and Chepkew remain closed. Others have opened but face threats of attacks. They are Yatya, Chemoe, Kagir, Ngaratuko, Toboroi, Barsuswo and Lokorotabim, Moinonin, Loruk, Chepkesin, Kapturo, Kalabata, Sibilo, Rondinin, Chepkew, Kinyach, Chapin, Chemintany and Barketiew.  CALL FOR RESETTLEMENT I had a total of 330 pupils back in Mukutani. We have yet to resettle back, as we fear for our lives,” Mukutani Primary School head teacher Jackson Lecher told the Star yesterday. Teachers in the most volatile zones fled last year and have yet to return. The security situation is unsettled and the government should act swiftly to resettle the victims, Olempaka said. He said he was in Nairobi to book an appointment with Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi so a delegation of Ilchamus and Tugen residents can see him about the violence. Kiptarus said, “If Matiang’i applied the energy here that he used in the Education ministry, this menace will be a thing of the past.” He urged Tiaty MP William Kamket and county leaders to launch a crackdown on cattle rustling — the cause of insecurity. He said this would ensure peace and harmony. “As Knut and the entire teaching fraternity, we’ll lead the way and go an extra mile to ensure peace and harmony prevail,” Kiptarus said. He urged youth and clerics to back the initiative. 