MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town) have been termed political brokers fuelling division in Jubilee Party. The accusation came a day after MPs clashed at a church service in Nyeri, about Mt Kenya’s support for Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 bid for State House. James Mwangi, chairman of the Kenya Coalition for Political Progress, claimed Ngunjiri is a NASA mole who was sent to stir up trouble in the ruling coalition. “Ngunjiri was once NASA leader Raila Odinga’s spokesperson. He is not Mt Kenya region’s mouthpiece and should desist from issuing remarks that stir unnecessary excitement among the people,” Mwangi said. Read: DP Ruto rebukes Kuria, Wambugu over 'useless' 2022 succession politics  In his address to journalists in Thika on Monday, he said the succession debate is ill-timed. Businessmen Lukas Ndegwa and James Murimi said traders were unhappy with the "reckless" remarks.  Ndegwa said President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP need support as Kenya heals from a "brutal" election. “It seems these people never learn. Didn’t they see what prolonged politics and campaigning did to the economy?" he said. "We are trying to unite Kenyans. Our leaders should lead in such initiatives instead of continuing to make things hard for a nation that is trying to move forward." On Sunday, the Gatundu South legislator criticised his Nyeri Town counterpart for suggesting that the Deputy President was not guaranteed Central Kenya’s support in 2022. Ngunjiri has been a staunch supporter of Jubilee Party. Debate on succession politics emerged after Wambugu hit out at Kuria on social media saying it was too early for discussions. The DP criticised a section of Jubilee leaders for prematurely initiating 2022 discussions, in an apparent reaction to Kuria's remarks that the region will back his presidential bid. The legislator said the Mt Kenya region will not betray the DP as he has always supported President Uhuru Kenyatta. Click here for the latest political news