Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has asked the government to consider totally waiving secondary school fees to lessen the burden on parents. The MP noted parents are still being forced to pay school fees amounting to up to Sh50,000, especially in national and extra-county schools. The high figures are locking many bright but needy students out, he noted on Wednesday, adding parents are forced to take them to day schools. “A school asking for Sh30,000 per term or Sh60,000 annually is asking for too much and causing parents not to feel the effect of the new free secondary education programme." In June 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta said secondary education will be completely free in three years.  He noted this will make the transition from primary to secondary school possible for all KCPE candidates. More on this: Secondary education to be free in 2019, says Uhuru Also read: How free is free secondary education? - MP Ali Mbogo Nyoro said many parents are suffering following the reopening of schools so the government should find ways of making secondary education fully free. He also requested feeding programmes for day schools so parents don't have to pay the Sh3,000 they are charged. The lawmaker spoke while issuing CDF bursaries amounting to Sh3 million to 200 needy students in the constituency, who were called to national and extra-county schools.  “I was forced to only consider the two categories because they are charged the highest fees and the money available was too little." The students were picked from the lists of sponsorship programmes such as Wings To Fly as they did not secure the help. Nyoro said when the CDF money is released by the government, more students will be considered and that the help will be sustained. He reported that many of the parents who benefited were worried that they would be unable to sustain their children in the national schools after admission. The students received amounts ranging from Sh10,000 to Sh33,000 depending on their schools' demands and their parents’ financial status. “Three students admitted to Kahuhia Girls' High School have received Sh33,000 because their families are extremely poor. Giving them half the fees would not have helped them,” the MP said. He also challenged the government to consider setting up a kitty to sponsor needy children admitted to national institutions. This will encourage other needy but less fortunate children, he said, and promised that students who can now report to their national and extra-county schools will learn uninterrupted. Also read: UhuRuto lied about free education to get votes, says Kisauni MP Click here for the latest political news