Nakumatt’s Nanyuki branch yesterday was closed at dawn, the tenant evicted over debt and goods looted. The branch had not been operating for about two months. Property was looted after people arrived at Nanyuki Mall at 3am and started tossing out food and merchandise. Police officers arrived later and fired in the air to disperse the looters. An officer at the scene said police had not been notified of the impending eviction.  This was despite the proprietor of the building having obtained a court order to evict Nakumatt over Sh36 million rent arrears. “People believed to have been hired by the owner of the mall arrived around 3am, gained entry and began to throw out the goods without involving police officers,” a police officer told the Star. The officer who declined to be identified by name because he is not authorised to speak to the media. He said the looting started immediately goods were thrown out.  The remaining goods scattered outside were ferried to a store two kilometres away.  It was not immediately established if they would be auctioned. By the time the supermarket chain was temporarily closed on November 6 last year, 42 workers had not been paid for six months. “The property owner had obtained a court order to evict the tenant over the arrears. The shopping mall had been closed for two months,” a source said. In December last year, the government denied claims it was planning to bail out Nakumatt. Huge debt The supermarket is reeling under debt estimated to be close to Sh36 billion. Speaking exclusively to the Star, Trade CS Aden Mohamed dismissed reports about an intended bailout as a rumour. “I have not heard about that. You could have gotten it from me,’’ Mohamed said.  His ministry declined Nakumatt’s request for a government bailout in June last year. Nakumatt took advantage of the government’s concern about the closure of some of the retailer’s branches to ask for bailout. It blamed the state’s past actions and negligence for its financial difficulties. In a letter dated May 9, 2017, Trade PS Chris Kiptoo expressed concern that Nakumatt’s poor performance could trigger panic in the retail sector chain and hurt the general economy. ‘State failed us’ In a letter responding to Kiptoo, Nakumatt Holdings managing director Atul Shah recounted various instances over the years in which he said the state had failed the retailer.  He said state actions had cost the retailer more than Sh35 billion. Shah cited the 1998 contaminated canned beef scandal that led the government to close all its stores countrywide. The beef, which had originated from the UK, was contaminated with mad cow disease. According to Shah, the closure was forced by people who wanted to snatch the family business.