Two MPs and the Tana River senator on Sunday asked the government to arm Kenya Police reservists and youth with automatic rifles to fight al Shabaab. Garsen lawmaker Ali Guyo, alias Ali Hanshaka, his Galole counterpart Said Hiribae and Senator Juma Wario said residents should join the fight against the terrorists. Speaking during a fundraising at Laini in Tana River county, they said residents have been intimidated for a long time and will not allow more attacks. They said the only solution is to arm the residents and get into the forest to flush out al Shabaab since police have failed. The politicians condemned the Nyongoro attack that left one woman dead, two police vehicles burnt and several officers injured. The Garsen MP accused the government of failing to assure residents of their security. “It is time for residents to prove they can assure the government of security. We demand to be given automatic rifles so that we go for the terrorists,” he said. Guyo said al Shabaab have no right to identify as Muslims as their actions are not in line with Islamic teachings.  islam not an excuse The MP said the terrorists should not use Islam as an excuse to kill innocent people. The Galole legislator said he has met with Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet over security and assured him that residents want to be armed. Hiribae pledged to table the issue in Parliament to demand that residents be given firearms. Wario said the terror attacks have made it difficult for politicians to travel to other parts of the county.  series of attacks “I will meet the President in person to discuss more about the issue,” the senator said. At Nyongoro on the Garsen-Witu Road, there have been a series of attacks and killings executed by al Shabaab. On Saturday the militia ambushed and burnt two police vehicles escorting buses to Malindi. On Sunday the terrorists raided Ishakani village that borders Somalia and pulled down the Kenyan flag at a police post before replacing it with their own. During the county’s New Year’s Eve celebrations, Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana urged the government to supply residents with firearms to help in the war against al Shabaab. 