The demolition of unsafe buildings in Huruma has been delayed after the multi-agency committee set up to oversee the exercise failed to meet. National Buildings Inspectorate secretary and chief government quantity surveyor Moses Nyakiongora yesterday said he is on leave and the task force could not meet on Tuesday as scheduled without him. The committee was to meet and review reports on whether the owners of the buildings have complied with notices issued after assessment of their property. “I am still on leave and they [multi-agency committee] can’t meet without me, but we shall compile the reports of what has happened. We shall begin to demolish houses that have not been attended to by their owners,” Nyakiongora told the Star on the phone. Nyakiongora said the demolitions will be carried out before the end of this month. “It will be done, not long from now. We have enough time before the end of this month and a few buildings must come down before the end of the month,” he said. Nyakiongora continued, “In wetlands we don’t have to give legal notice to the owners because those are illegal buildings. We only give notice to the tenants to move out. The buildings are illegal, so even if you go to court you don’t have papers. We can assume it [the building] is a tree.” Nyakiongora said the committee, which brings together officials from the National Construction Authority, county government, Ministry of Lands and the National Environment Management Authority, will meet on Tuesday next week. “After reviewing the reports [on the status of compliance], we will mobilise logistics and security to begin the demolitions,” he said. He said the agency will not make public the time of demolitions because owners could hire gangs to disrupt it. “You know one time we had issues in Huruma and police had to fire in the air. So sometimes we don’t announce the day we ask police to be there in the morning.But we give enough notice and when it expires, then from there we don’t have to tell them that we are coming tomorrow because if we do they may hire gangs to pelt people with stones,” Nyakiongora said.        