Close to 70 passengers escaped death after a bus they were travelling in was involved in a road accident on the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. The Guardian bus was heading to Western Kenya from Nairobi. It rammed into an oncoming pick-up before losing control and veering off the road. During the early morning incident in Kayole estate, Naivasha, three passengers in a pick-up were injured; two of them seriously. Related content : BLOODY DECEMBER: 36 perish in another Salgaa accident on New Year's Eve They were taken to Naivasha Subcounty Hospital. The accident caused a major traffic jam on the highway as the public rushed to assist the injured. The accident occurred after the driver of the bus that was going downhill veered off the road to avoid a head-on collision with the pick-up. Witness Simon Kiarie said the driver of the pick-up was overtaking a fleet of vehicles when the accident occurred. Kiarie said there was heavy traffic on the road which had been worsened by poor visibility caused by heavy rains that pounded Naivasha and its environs the previous night.  “The bus literally flew from the highway after hitting the pick-up and miraculously missed hitting some residents and shops,” he said. The wreckage was towed to Naivasha police station, leaving the passengers stranded. The bus management made plans to ferry the passengers to their homes. Earlier, four passengers were injured; two of them seriously, following an accident involving three vehicles along the same highway.  The accident near Naivasha Flower Business Park involved two trucks and a personal car travelling in different directions. Witness Abel Gitau said the personal car heading to Nakuru hit a flower truck before losing control and rolling several times.  Gitau added that another lorry rammed into the rear of the stalled flower truck trapping the driver for more than an hour. Also read : The horror of serial crashes on the Sachangwan to Salgaa road “The accident involved three vehicles and the occupants of the personal car were the most affected and they have been rushed to Naivasha Subcounty Hospital,” he said.  Naivasha subcounty commissioner Isaac Masinde confirmed both incidents and cited careless driving in both accidents. “The accidents were caused by careless overtaking. We are calling on our drivers to be cautious while on the roads,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news