Tourism CS Najib Balala has criticised government agencies for ‘frustrating’ investors and potential investors by banning shisha. He on Saturday took issue with the ban on the importation, manufacture, sale and use of Shisha, saying the decision was rash and could be detrimental to a section of the tourism industry. Outgoing Health CS Cleopa Mailu imposed the ban on December 28 and anyone found contravening the rules will be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh50,000, imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both. During the induction workshop of the National Assembly Committee on Sports, Tourism and Culture in Mombasa, Balala suggested the ban was rash. He said the ban should have been done “in a better way”, noting some government agencies are now taking advantage of the ban to harass investors by closing night clubs and other entertainment places. “Kwani they didn’t know all these years they were making noise? Overnight, they wake up and they take the owners, who have put a lot of money in the country employing people, and take them to jail, thinking they doing their job,” Balala said. He continued, “You wake up from nowhere, and arrest people. That is not acceptable. I’m sorry to say, even the ban of shisha. You don’t just wake up... The whole world has shisha. Why are you banning it in Kenya?” Balala said there are other ways of addressing health issues. “Why don’t you ban cigarettes? Why don’t you ban alcohol? I’m not a smoker, so I’m not defending shisha for shisha smokers,” he said. Big money Balala said a friend of his has a shisha restaurant in Monaco, France and he makes €100 million (Sh127 million) annually out of the sale of shisha. “If we get 10 or 20 per cent of €100 million from one restaurant, si it’s money for the government?” Balala noted. He said lack of enforcement rules should not cause government agencies to make investors suffer. “This is not government. You become an obstacle,” Balala said. He also said many projects by the government are started but never completed. Working for camera “Even if we allow the private sector to do something, we go around and frustrate them and they take too long.When you see a hotel or any project in tourism ready, that investor must have been frustrated through the process. By who? Us in government collectively,” Balala said Pretending that one is working for the cameras is wrong, he said. Shisha has been said to be equivalent to smoking 10 cigarettes. It is an activity many youths engaged in before its ban.