Senior police officers in both the Administration and Kenya Police departments have kept off the positions of Deputy Inspector General for fear of "President's men." A majority of the senior officers did not apply for the vacant positions, despite an advertisement by the National Police Service Commission calling for applications. The application deadline elapsed on Monday. the NPSC had also called for applications to the position of the director of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. Sources within
the National Police Service said the decision by senior officers not to apply for the positions was an indication that they were certain the recruitment
exercise would be formality. They said there were presidential appointees already earmarked for the jobs. The appointees would emerge tops in the interviews, the sources said. Only nine officers from AP department applied for the positions. They include Noor Gabow and Edward Mbugua, both of who were appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to act as the DIGs in charge of the AP and Kenya Police respectively. Acting DCI director George Kinoti also applied. From the Kenya Police Service, senior assistant IG King'ori Mwangi, director of operations at the police headquarters Benson Kibui and Kenya Police Service spokesman Charles Owino did not apply for the vacant positions. Mwangi and Kibui are the second and third in commands respectively, at Vigilance House. The outspoken Owino holds the rank of assistant IG and is one of the senior officers at the KPS. He is doing his second Masters degree at the University of Nairobi. Similarly, in the AP, principal assistant IG Fred Mwei and AP training college commandant Peter Murithi did not apply. However, director
of planning and external linkages Vincent Makokha, former APS
spokesman Masoud Mwinyi and assistant IG Dhadho Kakawa applied. "We applied because we believe the appointment is a competitive process," an AP officer, who who did not want to be named, told the Star. DCI deputy director Joseph Ashimala confirmed to the Star that he did not apply for the positions. Uhuru sacked former DIGs Joel Kitili and Samuel Arachi alongside DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro on January 5. He said the three will be redeployed by the Public Service Commission.   