President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged leaders of the AIPCA church to end their power struggles and unite the congregation, Archbishop Julius Njoroge has said. Speaking at the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa in Rurii, Ol Kalou, on Sunday, Njoroge said Uhuru spoke to him during the burial of three Meru bishops who recently perished in a road accident. “The President told me he had given me the mandate to unite the church. I know his words were not in vain and he is watching to see if we do as he requested,” Njoroge said. He said he has talked with all bishops and the church board and all have backed his efforts to start peace talks. Leadership wrangles have rocked the church following the retirement of Archbishop Amos Kabuthu in January last year. This led to the consecration of both Fredrick Wang’ombe and Julius Njoroge as archbishops. ELECTION RIGGED Kabuthu stepped down in January, following a High Court court order to hand the mantle to Wang’ombe. Church members, however held elections on January 9 last year whenNjoroge was elected archbishop. Rivals said the vote was rigged. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto are among leaders who have unsuccessfully tried to resolve the leadership row. Ngoroge said on Sunday the peace talks will involve bishops, representatives from all congregations, government representatives and lawyers. “We hope they will come up with an agreement to unite the church. Their decision will be final and binding,” Njoroge said. Also invited are Njoroge’s rival Fredrick Wang’ombe and Meru Bishop Samson Muthuri. “We want them to tell us what they want with the church,” Njoroge said. He said he is the recognised because he was elected in accordance with its constitution. “I am an old man and I have been in church leadership for 38 years. I have never been part of the group that divides the church. The current division is a heavy burden on me, but I pray that God will help me leave behind a united church when my term ends.” Click here for the latest political news