Fist fights erupted at a hotel in Kiambu county after Murang'a MCAs disagreed over the change of leadership in the assembly. The meeting organised by Jubilee party Murang'a chairman Simon Gikuru degenerated into fights after a section of MCAs opposed the changing of leadership in the house. Sources who so Fist fights erupted at a hotel in Kiambu county after Murang’a MCAs disagreed over the change of leadership in the assembly. The meeting organised by Jubilee party Murang’a chairman Simon Gikuru degenerated into fights after a section of MCAs opposed the changing of leadership in the house. Sources who sought anonimity indicated the meeting had been organised to change the leader of Majority Eric Kamande, chief whip Simon Wamwea and deputy chief whip Ruth Wambui. The sources said MCAs who are affiliated to the three were first locked out of the meeting for two hours and when they were finally allowed in, they demanded to know why they were locked out. “When we asked why they locked us out, they ganged up against us and beat us,” one MCA said. Gatanga MCA Nahashon Gachuhi sustained injuries on the head and was rushed to the Aga Khan University Hospital. They recorded staments at Runda police station and obtained P3 forms. Charles Muthoni, an official of Jubilee in the county, also sustained injuries on the neck and head after being hit with a piece of metal. Muthoni, who spoke to the Star from his hospital bed, said a section of the 28 MCAs who were in the meeting had hired 15 youths who ganged against them and assaulted them. “We were only three, so we did not have a chance to defend ourselves,” he said. He said they suspect they were locked out of the meeting to ensure they did not participate in the meeting and oppose the agenda. But the chairman denied there were any fights during the meeting and said it was the three who caused a commotion and were ejected by security. He said the three ran away as they were being ejected and that they may have sustained injuries as they fled.