Two rival groups in the Kericho assembly yesterday clashed over whether the county government should expand and rehabilitate Kerenga Airstrip in Kericho town. Both groups held demonstrations in Kericho town. Thirty MCAs, led by Kipchebor’s Eric Bett and his Kapkugerewet counterpart Collins Biegon, on Monday led a group of Kericho town residents in support of the establishment of the airstrip. Another group of MCAs, led by Kapsoit MCA Paul Chirchir, held a parallel demonstration in Kericho town to oppose the construction, saying it is not a priority. Only six MCAs are opposed to the construction. They include Leader of Majority Hezron Ng’etich, Chirchir, Philip Rono (Kamasian) and Sammy Rono (Tendeno –Soget). Chirchir led a handful of protestors through the Kericho town streets as the group that supports the construction led its group to the site of the proposed airport and started clearing the bush. ‘misleading’ Biegon accused Chirchir’s group of misleading residents into believing funds meant for roads, water and health would be diverted to the construction of the airport. “Already money for the airport had been budgeted for. No funds will be reallocated from roads, health and water projects,” Bett said. The opposing group accused the executive, led by Governor Paul Chepkwony, of getting the county’s priorities wrong. They said the airstrip is a function of the national government. Carrying placards that read, ‘Basic things first’, the MCAs demanded the executive focus on provision of clean water, building roads and ensuring there are enough drugs at the health facilities. Chirchir’s group wants the sewage systems rehabilitated and expanded. They also accused the county of failing to collect garbage, adding many towns are filthy. “The issue of the airstrip is not a priority now and we demand it be shelved first until our residents have gotten all the basic needs. We have asked the governor to postpone the airstrip project, but he appears adamant.That is why we have resorted to this protest,” Ng’etich said. Chirchir announced there will be protests every Monday until Chepkwony withdraws the project. “We are not relenting until we achieve our objective. We will push the county administration until it stops plans to rehabilitate and expand the airstrip,” said Chirchir. 3.7km Another faction supporting the project vowed to push until it is implemented. It said it has the numbers. Chepkwony intends to expand the airstrip’s runway from 1.2km to 3.7km, but the move has been hampered following the MCAs to move to reduce the budgetary allocation from Sh100 million to Sh25 million. The county was to collaborate with the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority on the project. 