A man was lynched in Voi on Thursday evening for killing his lover after a disagreement. Protus Nyangasera,32, from Kisii was killed by angry residents in Mwanandunyi village, Tausa division in Voi. Taita Taveta County police commander Fredrick Ochieng said Nyangasera had come to visit the woman's rural home on December 29. Read: Recce Squad officer shoots lover 53 times, kills himself "The two had been living together in Nairobi before they came for Christmas holiday at the woman's home," Ochieng said. He said Nyangasera stabbed Teckla Shighadi,37, several times on her neck and chest before fleeing. She was a mother of three. Members of the public, however, launched a manhunt for the killer, arresting him seven kilometres from home. He was seriously beaten and burnt to death. Teckla's cousin Harrison Nyange said the two had frequent quarrels since they returned from Nairobi last week. "I advised them to settle their matter peaceful in the morning before I left. Hours later, I was alerted by neighbours that the two had locked themselves in the house and fought. Members of the public broke the house and found Shighadi dead." he said Her brother Charles Mwawaza said his sister had refused to travel back with her lover and that might have triggered the fight. "She wanted Protus parents to officially come to seek permission for marriage, but he had a contrary opinion," Mwawaza said. The bodies were taken to Moi County referral Hospital mortuary. The incident occurred barely a week after another man killed his wife by stabbing her 21 times in Ndombe sub-location, Tausa division after a disagreement. Ochieng advised young couples to explore alternative dispute resolution methods and shun from using violence to settle a dispute. "There are several ways that couples can pursue to solve differences that include seeking advice from parents, elders, friend and church leaders." Alos read: Gay Naivasha prisoner kills cellmate over lover   Click here for the latest political news 