 The High Court in Embu has ordered a vote recount in 19 polling stations in the Manyatta parliamentary seat petition. The Union of Kenya Civil Servants national treasurer Justus Mugo on Friday was granted the application against Manyatta MP John Muchiri (Jubilee). Embu High Court judge Robert Limo said inflation, swapping, doctoring, and stealing of votes were cited by all the parties. He said the applicant gave sufficient evidence, which convinced him to order for scrutiny of the specified polling stations. Limo, however, declined to order for a scrutiny of KIEMS, Forms 35A and 35B and ballot boxes.  He said the petitioner did not give enough evidence.  Irregularities cited The judge said the MP strongly opposed the application for recounting of votes and scrutiny of several other materials, but could not give enough ground for his objection. Limo said since there were irregularities cited in some polling stations and there are doubts over the votes each candidate got, he found it fit to order for a recount.He said this will help him make the final judgment. The judge ordered that the Embu deputy court registrar supervise the recount on January 23 to January 24. The parties of the suit will be represented by their lawyers or appoint two agents each. The case will be mentioned on January 26 when the report of the vote recount will be presented in court. Muchiri garnered 34,318 votes against Mugo’s 33,235 votes during the August 8 General Election. This is the second petition in Embu where a vote recount has been ordered. In a petition filed by former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti against Governor Martin Wambora, Justice William Musyoka on Thursday ordered a recount of votes in several polling stations. They include Manyatta, Runyenjes, and Mbeere South, citing claims of doctoring, swapping, stealing and exaggeration of votes. In the petition, the IEBC, Embu County Returning Officer Daniel Lenarum, Wambora and his Deputy David Kariuki are the first, second, third and fourth respondents respectively. Kivuti, who got 96,775 votes against Wambora’s 97,760, maintains the poll was not free and fair.