Last year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations marked another low for Uhuru Kenyatta: Never in our 54-year-old history have so few attended the country’s most important nationwide celebration. In some counties, including in a number of Uhuru’s strongholds, there were literally no crowds, only invited guests, journalists and policemen. There have been contested national day celebrations in Kenya before but never has there been such a massive washout against a President. It is clear that the issue of President Uhuru’s legitimacy will not go away anytime soon: It will continue even in the New Year. At the heart of his claimed legitimacy is the widely-circulated argument that the Supreme Court in September only found flaws in the electoral process, but not in the numbers of those who voted him, which the IEBC put at 8.2 million. This claim is of course profoundly contradicted by the Court’s actual judgement and the IEBC’s refusal to obey the court’s order to provide access to the server. But the hollowness of that legitimacy claim was sorely tested on December 12 for the second time, when Kenyans were treated to the astonishing spectacle of a President speaking to a virtually empty Kasarani stadium. “A largely empty stadium” greeted the President, said one major daily; the other reported, “Only a small section of the 60,000-seater was occupied.” Imagine the size of the crowd if Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu had not cancelled his populous Kiambu’s celebration, to allow supporters to go hear Uhuru in nearby Kasarani Sports Stadium. That was a repeat of the paltry turnout for Uhuru in the October 26 repeat presidential election, when very few of the original ‘8.2’ million turned out in response to a NASA call to boycott the polls. There was no NASA call to boycott the Jamhuri Day celebrations, but Kenyans still did not bother to show up, even more strongly than on October 26. Can one imagine the dramatically contrasting images of the massive crowds at Raila Odinga’s planned swearing-in if it had gone ahead? No wonder the Attorney General had to threaten treason and death sentences for all those who assisted in that event. Those threats of course had nothing to do with the postponement, and were intended to deter attendance. We know NASA supporters cannot be intimidated and would have attended in their hundreds of thousands. But we can be sure that the government would have used all- out force to prevent them gathering for the event. There could have been a bloodbath. Uhuru’s inauguration in front of some African heads of state had seen Kasarani Stadium packed, and this was portrayed as reflecting his popular support. But we know that hundreds of buses had ferried in paid supporters in chartered buses from various part of the country, the Rift Valley in particular, and of course from Central as well.