The fate of more than 200 medical laboratory students at King’s Medical College in Nyeri is in limbo after a regulator closed the institution for offering an unaccredited course. Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologists Board officers yesterday ordered its closure for failure to meet basic standards required for it to offer the programme. “Notice is hereby given that an immediate closure is in effect on the medical laboratory issued with this notice,” the closure notice reads. “The closure will be effected on 29/01/2018 to when the board revokes it,” it says. KMLTTB chief executive Patrick Kisabey said the institution was closed in 2016 after an inspection by the board showed it lacked basic requirements to offer the programme. “This is the time we are visiting this college. We were here in 2016, in November 2017 and today but the administration of this school has declined to comply,” Kisabey said. He said the College is not registered and its students are not indexed by the board are required in law. “We have been in an endless court battles with this College for a very long time and we won the case. So we are legally here,” Kisabey said. There was drama at the institution when a lecturer, said to be the son of the college’s director, blocked KMLTTB officers from addressing the students on the closure of the school. The College is owned by Embu Level 5 chief executive and former chief government pathologist Moses Njue. Njue’s wife, Lucy, and son Lamuel Mureithi, were at the institution at the time the officers, escorted by officers from Narumoru police station, raided the school. Mureithi blocked KMLTTB from addressing the students until his father, who was in Embu at the time, arrived. This forced the police officers to handcuff him, triggering protest by the students. “Why are you handcuffing him? He is our lecturer and we will not allow you to do that,” a student screamed. Attempts by the police officers to calm the students proved futile, forcing them to call for reinforcement from the station. Mureithi was whisked away by the students while his mother was arrested and taken to Narumoru Police Station. A ruling by Judge Teresia Matheka dated January 18, 2018 disallowed an application by the institution to block the board from closing it. Njue, together with Mureithi later went to the police station where he accused the KMLTTB officers of malice. “I am a former member of this board and I know what is happening here is pure malice. These are thugs,” Njue said. They were locked up at the station. A third year student said they pay Sh84,000 per year. Click here for the latest political stories