The CBK has been dealt a blow after after its award of a lucrative currency printing contract to a British firm was terminated. In a 77-page ruling yesterday, the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board accused the CBK of wrongful application of the law to tilt the tender in favour of De La Rue International Limited. In awarding the tender, the CBK applied a 15 per cent margin preference meant for local firms only, yet De La Rue International Limited is registered in the UK. In the ruling, the review board, led by Paul Gicheru, faulted the CBK for wrongly invoking the provision and concluded it “could only have been intended to tilt the tender process in favour of De La Rue”. “A declaration be and is hereby issued that De La Rue International Ltd was unlawfully awarded the tender for printing and supply of new currency and that the application of 15 per cent preference margin in its favour was unlawful and the award is therefore annulled,” the board said. The CBK was directed to undertake a fresh 14-day evaluation of all tenders submitted by the four bidders who participated in the process. swedish firm heads to court The case was lodged by Swedish firm Crane AB that was the least evaluated in price. In its defence, however, De La Rue International Limited claimed it intended to subcontract part of the deal to its affiliate, De La Rue Kenya EPZ Limited, registered in Kenya. “If the second respondent had intended to benefit from any preference scheme then it ought to have submitted its tender in joint venture with what it calls its affiliates or subcontractors, which it did not do,” the Gicheru team ruled. This is the second obstacle against De La Rue that could break its over 25 years of monopoly over currency printing in Kenya. In December last year, activist Okiya Omtatah moved to the High Court and successfully obtained temporary orders to stop the award until the case is heard and determined. use of images outlawed The matter is scheduled for hearing next Wednesday. The CBK is to issue the new currency in line with the 2010 Constitution that outlaws the use of images of individuals. Kenyan currency has the portrait of founding President Jomo Kenyatta.      