Human error, inexperience, stress and a faulty vehicle resulted in the accident that claimed nine lives on Nyahururu-Nyeri road last Tuesday evening. This is according to two survivors of the crash that involved a 14-seater Central Liners Sacco matatu on its way from a burial in Othaya, Nyeri county. Read: Nine mourners killed after matatu rolls in Nyandarua The matatu had 14 adults and two children, who were residents of Kiboya village in Leshau Pondo in Ndaragwa. Margaret Wanjira and conductor William Kihara survived the accident that took place at Equator area. In an interview with The Star during the mass funeral service on Tuesday, Wanjira said she was in the driver's cabin with driver Washington Kahoro's mother. Kahoro, a teacher at Baari Secondary School, was the owner of the vehicle. It is not clear why he opted to leave behind his official driver or whether he had a PSV licence. "He had been speeding so we kept telling him to slow down. He listened a few times but as we reached Ndaragwa, I don't know what happened. He accelerated and lost control," she said at Ngai Ndeithia Secondary School. Wanjira said her survival was a miracle as the vehicle 'flew' over her. "I saw the vehicle fly. By the time it touched the ground, I had been thrown out through the front windscreen. It flew over me as it rolled over a slope. I saw others being scattered on the road. Good Samaritans rushed us to hospital." The mother of two said the vehicle had a problem as Kahoro experienced challenges while shifting gears. "Every time he changed gears, the lever would get stuck and fail. Then it would work and we would proceed. My advice to drivers is that they should avoid carrying passengers if they know their vehicles have problems. They should advice the people to seek alternative means." Wanjira noted the driver was not drunk but alluded to stress. "No, he was not drunk. That I deny as I was seated with him and his mother and I did not notice it. However, I urge drivers that if you have a problem - people have family or job-related problems, you know - if people request you to take them somewhere, please don't to avoid these unnecessary deaths." She added Kahoro was not qualified to carry passengers. "I knew him as a teacher. I had never seen him driving. It was my first time." Kihara said Kahoro told him they did not need the official driver since both of them were attending the burial in Nyeri. He denied reports that Kahoro had quarreled with his driver prior to the journey and said that on the way back, Kahoro requested him to drive. "I declined. I don't know why. Maybe I would have saved the situation or died." The conductor confirmed that Kahoro, who died at the scene, had been speeding and that he lost control while negotiating a corner down a slope. "He could not negotiate the corner under that speed. He lost control. The vehicle flew." Related: Declare carnage national disaster, urge residents Kihara said the vehicle had been serviced at a garage in Nyahururu town the previous Monday. He told The Star that last Sunday, they got to Nyahururu from Malaral and found many Nairobi-bound passengers. They then proceeded to Nairobi and returned to Nyahururu the following day, where Kahoro told him to take the vehicle for servicing in preparation for a "private trip to Nyeri". "I serviced the vehicle and took it to him at Mairo-Inya," he said. Kahoro's mother is currently undergoing treatment at Nakuru General hospital. Click here for the latest political stories