About 2.2 million micro- small- and medium enterprises have closed in five years, resulting in 1.6 million job losses, the Kenya Bureau of Statistics reports. It says this is caused by dishonoured cheques and increasing unpaid invoices. This means reduced tax revenue and difficulties for the government to pay its debts. To address this problem, Stephen Mills, founder of Kenya’s first licensed Credit Reference Bureau, CRB Africa, has developed a cash flow solutions firm, Veri-Credit Trade Sector Bureau. It is registered as a trademark of PayIndex Limited. The firm will open in the first week of February this year. For 20 years, Mills has managed financial sector credit reference bureaus and their debt collection arms, in eight sub-Saharan Africa countries. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Mills explains what the Veri-Credit Trade Sector Bureau is, how it works and how it is important.  What happened to your first firm, CRB Africa? I started the credit bureau in Kenya [for banks] and we sold it to Trans-union in 2012. Last year a friend requested I bring back Veri-Cheque due to increased number of bounced cheques said to be caused by the interest rate cap. The caps led to an increase of bounced cheques and invoice since banks are a lot more careful who they issue credit to as they can no longer charge higher rates for increased perceived risk. So, if business have less access to credit, they are not able to borrow at a sustainable rate. They then tend to not pay on time. Central Bank governor is also on record acknowledging that rate cap has resulted in a credit crunch as banks ration credit had slowed down the economy.  Why did you get back into the credit reference business? After listening to grievances, we researched micro finances and businesses. We found about Sh300 billion or more invoices are not paid annually. Approximately 20,000-50,0000 cheques bounce every month. I decided to start sub-Saharan Africa’s first commercial credit bureau known as Veri-Credit Trade Sector Bureau because the credit bureaus I started many years ago are for banks servicing the financial sector.  Is this just for Kenya or other countries as well? As for the rest of Africa, that will be based on how quickly we can get things up and running in Kenya. Likely from next year onward we can think about launching in other countries.  Isn’t there already a national credit reference bureau, whats the difference with Veri-Credit? What is in the market is a financial sector credit bureau that targets the banks and other financial institution. There is no commercial credit bureau in Kenya and the Sub-Saharan Africa, we are launching the first one, and we will be targeting the trade sector. We intend to promote best credit practices between businesses and their suppliers, to improve cash flow between businesses and to drive a change in payment performance culture.  How does it work? We are a membership organisation. Through an online platform, members anonymously exchange information on Days Beyond Terms (DBT) of payment performance by their customers, compliance with credit terms. Through this, they can see how long they take to pay debts, enabling them to make decisions on whom to extend credit to.  How will this reduce bouncing cheques and unpaid invoices ? To accelerate cash flow, reduce DBTs and deter poor credit behaviour, we give all our members a Veri-Credit stamp. This is a time-proven means of letting their customers know that as a Veri-Credit member, you expect to be paid within the agreed time and credit terms.