Back in the day when I was young… I’m not any more, but sometimes I sit and wish I was a kid again…’ So went a line from a rap song I enjoyed listening to a long time ago. I can’t remember who the artistes were but I do remember the chorus used to go, ‘I remember way back when…’ It was a catchy tune, painting a bygone time with a nostalgic brush, and I loved it. We all do it — look back to a long gone past like it was better days. We look back and say things like, life back then was easier than it is today. It was safer, less stressful, less troubled. In our minds, there were a lot less bad things happening back then, and so we speak of those days as the good old days. Thing is, the good old days weren’t really that. It’s the mind, as usual, playing tricks on our perception. It’s for our own good, of course. What happens is the mind has this capacity to reconstruct memories of the past, cherishing only the positive. The idea is to reduce anxiety associated with the present and the future, especially the future that has to do with our own mortality. The world isn’t any more dangerous today than it was in the past. There aren’t more bad things happening now compared to decades ago. We perceive that we are living in bad and dangerous times because as humans, we are wired to see the bad, and invariably we’re drawn towards the negative. Psychologists call it ‘negativity bias’, which in layman terms is saying, humans have a collective hunger to hear and remember bad news. There have been experiments to show this. These involved showing a group of volunteers different sets of pictures. One set was pictures of a pizza, and a sunset, known to arouse positive feelings. The other was pictures of a mutilated face and a dead cat, which was certain to stir negative feelings. And then the final set of pictures, a plate, a pencil and a hairdryer, was meant to produce neutral feelings. What the researchers found was that the participants’ brains were paying a great deal more attention to the downbeat images, as opposed to the other images. The reason we have this in-built app that is sensitive to negativity, the theory goes, is we evolved this way because our survival as a species depended on our ability to avoid danger. As such, our brains are designed to unavoidably notice keenly, and remember vividly things that are bad and a danger to us. The past wasn’t any better than today. We just notice the bad more than the good because that’s how we’re built. But something Obama said recently made me reflect on the very real possibility that we’re living, right now, in the good days. ‘If you had to choose any moment in history to be alive, you would choose right now. The world has never been healthier, wealthier, or better educated, or in many ways more tolerant or less violent.’ — Barack Obama. The man has a point. I mean, life may not be easy for the average African in today’s world, but it’s sure as hell better than it was for the average African in the 1930s, 40s, and 50s in many parts of the world.