Back in 2015, the Obama
administration, in the interest of promoting uniform access to information
through the internet, passed the Net Neutrality rules through the American
telecommunications regulator, the Federal Communications Commission.  Netizens,
big tech and policy makers touted this as a win that solidified a decade old
informal policy of open access to the internet.  Through the net neutrality
provisions, internet service providers were barred from blocking,
slowing, or giving preferential treatment to particular sites and services.
 Supported by the fundamental principal that internet is a public good, net
neutrality ensured that consumers were accorded uniform access to information
on the internet regardless of their ISP, as well as protected against
differential pricing. Fast forward to 14
December 2017. The FCC, in a highly controversial and partisan move, voted 3 –
2 against net neutrality, scrapping the rules barely a year into Trump’s
administration.  This move has been met with sharp criticism, with the debate of
the day noting that the average consumer will lose as a result.
 Particularly, the narrative notes that without the protection of the net
neutrality policy, consumers will face steeper fees for access to quality
content.  Additionally, it has been noted that small scale start-ups will stand
to be adversely affected should they have to pay higher fees in order to have
their content accessed by the masses.  In contrast, well established companies,
while not eager to pay more to get their content out there, have the financial
muscle to weather fee increments. This shows the disadvantages posed by price
discrimination to small firms.  Debate on the other side
of the isle, however, notes that the repeal of net neutrality stands to
increase innovation through the power of the invisible hand – competition.
 Proponents of the net neutrality repeal note that regulation tends to stifle
innovation, arguing that it is only through de-regulation, and the operation of
a free and fair market, that innovation will stand to flourish.  Should
companies be able to pass down the true and accurate cost of their services to
the consumer, lower quality services will be weeded out with time, thus
ensuring that the end consumer receives high quality, cutting edge services. Despite the above, it may
not come as a surprise that this debate has not effectively reached our shores.
 While the Kenyan telecommunications regulator promotes a policy of fair access,
the same has not been formalised in any shape or form. Whether or not net
neutrality is necessary in the Kenyan context is a debate that we must have at
some point.  As our telecommunications sector continues to mature, it is up to
the regulator to ensure that the end consumer not only receives quality services,
but also has free access to information, regardless of the prevailing internet
service provider.