Jubilee Party has told rebel MPs that they are free to bolt out if they cannot adhere to the disciplinary action taken against them. Deputy chairman David Murathe told journalists that the executive was not involved in the ousting of the MPs from their committee positions. "Once a party has taken a certain position, you should abide by it. If you don't like it, then hit the road." "They should have raised their issues at the PG meeting but not through the media," Murathe said on Thursday. Read: No confidence vote: Alfred Keter ousted as Labour committee chair He was referring to Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Tiren (Moiben), David Bowen (Marakwet), and Alex Kosgey (Emgwen). The four MPs were ousted as chairpersons of various House committees on grounds they defied a directive by Deputy President William Ruto to relinquish the positions. They were ousted after Nominated MP David Ole Sankok moved the motion for their removal citing regional balance. But Keter has maintained he is still the chairman Labour committee saying the manner in which the MPs voted him out was unconstitutional. Read: Not shaken? Keter says he's still Labour committee chair Also read: Jubilee keen on equity, not Alfred Keter's TV noises - Duale National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has, however, distanced himself from allegations that he was part of the team that went to State House to plan for the MPs' removal. Muturi said the outer bid was purely orchestrated by the party leadership and that he was not involved. "When you engage in a fight with a pig, you will definitely expect to come out with mad. When you don't tore to your party policies, you shouldn't come running to me for refuge," he said. Muturi said political parties are allowed by the Law to instil discipline to its members independently and fairly. "If you don't allow political parties to discipline their members, then you will be killing democracy in this country. My work is only to check whether the party has taken the disciplinary measure as provided for by the Standing Orders," he said. Click here for the latest political news