Former US Ambassadors to African countries have written to president Donald Trump expressing their anger over his 'shithole' remarks. The ambassadors, 48, asked Trump to reassess his views on Africa and it's citizens, and recognise the important contributions Africans and African Americans have made and continue to make to the United States' history. They said America's endurance is a bond that will always be linked to the African States. Last week, Trump questioned why the United States would want to have immigrants from Haiti and African nations, referring to some as "shithole countries". Read:Trump questions taking immigrants from 'shithole countries' - sources The ambassadors, in a letter to Trump, said Africa is a continent of great human talent and rich diversity, as well as extraordinary beauty and almost unparalleled natural resources. They said it is a continent with deep historical ties with the United States. "As American ambassadors abroad we have seen Africa’s complex and rich cultures, awe-inspiring resilience, and breathtaking generosity and compassion. Even as some nations have faced challenges, we have counted among our contacts dynamic entrepreneurs, gifted artists, committed activists, passionate conservationists, and brilliant educators. We learned of novel solutions to complex problems, helped American companies find partners critical to their success, and counted on African military and intelligence officials who often assumed real risks to help achieve outcomes critical to our shared security," reads part of the letter. The Ambassadors said respectful engagement with these countries is a vital part of protecting America's national interests. "The United States of America is safer, healthier, more prosperous, and better equipped to solve problems that confront all of humanity when we work with, listen to, and learn from our African partners. We also know that the entire world is richer because of the contributions of Africans, including the many Americans of African descent," the letter says. Read:Botswana wants African countries to condemn Trump's 'shithole' remarks Also Read: 'Africa is no shithole': Proud immigrants take on Trump Click here for latest political news