President Uhuru Kenyatta has a "great opportunity" to either make of break with the past and transform Kenya, Raila Odinga has said. The NASA leader said this of the presidency on Monday, terming the opportunity historic and one that would lead to a new country. Raila, who was interviewed on Hot 96 radio, said: "We are willing to work with him in this regard and bring change. This will help him build his legacy. "Uhuru should agree that things must change. Kenya desires change and he can help in creating that change. "Kenya has great potential and we can turn this country into the Canaan that we have been talking about. We must march to Canaan." Several local and international leaders have asked Raila and Uhuru to hold talks following two elections that stretched the season from August to November 2017. In the past, the two have said they do not want a coalition government. On Sunday, Raila said he is not afraid to be sworn in despite repeated warnings that this would amount to treason. Plans are underway for him and his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka to be inaugurated on January 30. NASA has been pushing for electoral justice on grounds the October 26 vote, which they abandoned, did not reflect the will of Kenyans and that Jubilee Party controlled IEBC. More on this: I will be sworn in, arrest me if you want, Raila dares state During his interview, the  73-year-old noted the quest for change is still "alive and kicking" in the people's blood and that the new year is the time for this. Kenya has the potential to get rid of election malpractices, he also said, adding: "The force for change is so powerful that it is unstoppable. I am optimistic that 2018 is the year of transition and change in our country. "2017 was a terrible year but we must make 2018 the year of transition and that there is is hope. I can see light at the end of the tunnel." When the ODM leader celebrated his birthday on Sunday, his supporters prayed he becomes more courageous and continues championing Kenyans' rights. Raila said the hope the public have bestowed on him gives him energy and strength. "I still have so much energy, especially when I see young people with a lot of hope for Kenya. It keeps me going," he said. He further said young faces remind him of the colonial times when "Kenyans' spirit was very strong".  "When I see young people today, I think of the days when I was young. Kenyans are intelligent ..,. we can transform this country into Canaan." Read: You give Kenya hope and we love you, KOT tell Raila as he turns 73 Related: Take oath of office, supporters tired of waiting, Khaniri tells Raila Click here for the latest political news 