Fresh elections to replace four Jubilee MPs ousted from the leadership of House committees will be held this week despite the lawmakers appeal in court. National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai yesterday fixed the dates after the top House leadership committee approved the MPs’ ouster last week. National Assembly’s Liaison Committee yesterday said it was satisfied with the procedure followed to oust the four Jubilee rebel MPs. Sialai directed elections for chairperson of the Broadcasting and Library committee be held today while that for Labour and vice chairman of the Environment committee be conducted on Thursday. The election of a new chairperson of the Agriculture Committee is scheduled for Friday. Sialai asked interested candidates to submit their applications a day before the election. Committee chairmen Alfred Keter (Labour), Silas Tiren (Agriculture) and James Gakuya (Broadcasting) were toppled alongside Kangogo Bowen who was the vice chairman of the Environment committee. The High Court had granted them protection, blocking the Jubilee Party from dewhipping them unless they quit the positions. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto only retained the MPs in their various committees. Members however passed a vote of no confidence against the MPs, stripping them of their positions. Gakuya stepped down hours before the vote. Liaison Committee comprising of top Jubilee and NASA leaders told journalists that they were satisfied with the members resolution to vote out the four. “I can confirm that the processes and procedures have been followed for the purpose of conducting fresh elections in those committees,” Committee chairman Moses Cheboi said. He said the elections do not touch on the matter in court about dewhipping the MPs. Cheboi asked respective committee members to be ready to participate in the fresh elections. Jubilee has endorsed Ali Wario (Bura) for chairman of the Labour Committee, Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango) for Broadcasting, Adan Haji (Mandera West) for Agriculture and Sophia Ali (Ijara) for vice chair of the Environment Committee. Keter and his colleagues defeated the preferred candidates during the December committee elections. Last week, High Court Judge George Odunga allowed the ousted MPs to file an application for contempt of court against the Jubilee Party for instructing its MPs to kick them out of their positions.