The government has announced drastic safety measures to tame road carnage. It wants the 300 police officers currently attached to the National Transport and Safety Authority redeployed. The redeployment follows a directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta in December that NTSA officials be withdrawn from the roads to allow Traffic police to enforce the law. They have been blamed for runaway road accidents that soared fatalities to alarming levels in the festive season. In December 2017 alone, at least 330 people died in road accidents in Kenya while 3,500 deaths were reported that whole year. In a joint testament yesterday, Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang’i (Interior) and James Macharia (Transport) asked Inspector General Joseph Boinnet to include reduction of traffic fatalities in the regional commanders’ performance contracts. Those who don’t meet their targets will have action taken against them. NTSA officers conducting compliance inspections have been directed to do so at bus stops. This will ensure vehicles departing from the termini are roadworthy and drivers are not under the influence of alcohol. For trucks, NTSA will conduct checks at weighbridges. This means NTSA is not allowed to erect roadblocks along highways purporting to conduct compliance checks. “Enforcement of traffic laws is the responsibility of the National Police Service and they should ensure it is done. All the police officers attached to the NTSA should immediately return to the NPS for redeployment,” they said. As part of the radical measures aimed at curbing runaway road fatalities, the government directed police to step up clampdown on private cars ferrying passengers contrary to the law. These include low capacity vehicles among them Wish, Voxy and Sienta as well as Proboxes that carry up to 14 passengers instead of five. Under the raft of measures, the NTSA is expected to circulate its updated list of the targeted illegal PSVs to the Traffic police for immediate action. “Each county police commander, OCPD, Base Commander and OCS will be held responsible if illegal vehicles are found operating in their respective areas,” the statement reads. Regarding vetting and deregistration of Driving Schools, the government said a joint team will be set up by March 30 to conduct an audit in all the more than 400 institutions to establish the qualifications of instructors. “Those schools which do not meet licensing requirements will be deregistered,” the government said. Thereafter, the NTSA will implement the new driver training and testing curriculum in all driving schools.