The bodyguard of the Kiambu Deputy Governor is nursing wounds after he was attacked and his father killed at their home on Saturday in Kamugunga village, Kabete. Police are investigating. John Mungai, a 27-year-old GSU officer, was parking a car at their home, as his 61-year-old father Stephen Mburu closed their gate, when two armed thugs walked into their compound at around 8pm. Mburu’s brother John Gatonye yesterday said the gunmen brandished a pistol and ordered them to surrender the cash they had and their mobile phones. Upon getting the cash, the thugs said it was not enough. They ordered that they all get into the house to get more. As they entered the house, part of a staircase near the door obstructed one thug, who thought they were being attacked, Gatonye said. He immediately started shooting. “One thug asked them [my brother and nephew] why they wanted to attack them. They started shooting. It was at that time that they shot my brother in the chest and his son in the thigh,” Gatonye said. Mungai’s wife Loice Wangare, 26, realised later she had been shot. She said the thugs insisted they wanted money.  ransacked handbags “We gave them our handbags. We had started crying. My mother-in-law was so weak. She was crying. They ransacked the handbags and ran away,” Wangare said. “When they left, I saw blood on my arm. I didn’t know what had happened.” They were rushed to PCEA Kikuyu Hospital. Mungai was transferred to the Aga Khan Hospital while his wife was discharged. Police took Mburu’s body to the PCEA Kikuyu Hospital mortuary. Wangare said her husband had gone to a nearby shopping centre in the evening to buy meat for supper. “As he parked the car upon coming back, we heard their conversation was not between two people. There were shouts too. I suspected he must have come with friends,” she said. The thugs also demanded Mungai’s firearm, but did not get it, Kabete police boss Joseph Ongaya said. He said Mungai had left his firearm in the house as he left for the market and wasn’t armed during the attack. “No one has been arrested so far, but our officers are on the ground investigating,” Ongaya said. Mungai is the bodyguard of James Nyoro, the deputy county chief of Kiambu county.