A magistrate has ordered Two Western African businessmen who are charged with being in possession of Sh112 billion Dollas and Euros fake currencies to give their defence evidence on January 18 without further delay. Milimani senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku fixed the new date since the trial magistrate is on vacation. The accused Mohammed Sani alias Dr Mustafa and Ousman IbrahimBako who are both West African have a case to answer in all the 12 counts against them. While putting the accused persons on their defence,the trial magistrate Francis Andayi had said that the prosecution led by senior state counsel Daniel Karuri have proved the case beyond reasonable double that the accused committed the offence. They are being represented by lawyer Steve Kimanthi, while prosecution is led by Karuri who closed prosecution case at the DCI headquarters where the case was being conducted for purpose of producing huge exhibits. Earlier Justice Kimaru had made the orders the case be tried expeditiously after prosecution sought extension of time. Karuri said the case should be heard and disposed off since the accused are in custody and are a flight risk. In his ruling , Judge said that the court agrees with prosecution objection that the two accused persons are flight risk since they have no documents showing their fixed a bode and they should remain in the country until the hearing and determination of their criminal case. Justice Kimaru also agreed with the prosecution that the offence facing the accused is serious which may attract harsh punishment when found guilty of the same. The then trial magistrate Daniel Ogembo in his ruling when the accused first appeared before him said he has considered the magnitude of the case and when fake money enters into circulation it may create a problem to the economy. "I direct the two to remain in custody during the trial because they are a flight risk and a threat to the security," said Ogembo. The proceedings were being conducted at DCI following application by prosecutor, prosecuting the case on behalf of Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Keriako Tobiko that the case be heard at DCI headquarters because of sensitive of crucial exhibits prosecution is going to use as evidence in case. He informed the court that part of investigation was conducted by FBI based in US. During the last hearing the FBI expert Chris Goode,a US Secret Service agent who was one of the witnesses testify in the case which was held at the DCI Headquarters. He told the court that some of the counterfeit checked out by the US investigators were found to be fake. The witness said that they identified the notes from serial numbers and face value in counter-checking the serial numbers, the US government could possibly confirm age of paper and ink used on exhibits to reach that determination. He also produced a report on the quantity that was checked out, how investigation were conducted and the results found in the case. The fake currency was also displayed before the trial magistrate which was in large quantity. Police informed the court that the currency seized from the accused which was checked out had similar numbers. The two were charged with allegedly possessing forgery papers on January 14 and 15 at Diamond Park II Estate within Nairobi County. The court heard they had 6,931,000 pieces of paper intended to resemble and pass as US dollar currency notes. They were also charged with another count of possessing 739,200 papers intended to resemble the Euro currency notes on similar dates. They were accused that on similar dates and in similar places they possessed two scanners, two bottles of Iodine for producing figures and marks peculiar to those used in making US dollars and Euro currency notes.  