President Uhuru Kenyatta is yet to submit the list of the three Cabinet nominees to Parliament for vetting. On Friday, Uhuru nominated former Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko, former Turkana Senator John Munyes and former Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani to his Cabinet. Their names were expected to be forwarded to Parliament for vetting as early as yesterday. By yesterday evening, sources within Parliament told the Star that the "office of the speaker was waiting for the list from State House". "So far, no communication from State House has been received in Parliament. We are also waiting for it," the official, who is not allowed to speak to the media on behalf of Parliament, said. When he read out the names, in a televised press conference from State House, Nairobi last week, Uhuru said he had forwarded the names to Parliament. "By powers conferred upon me by article 152 (ii), I have nominated and forwarded the names thereof to the Speaker of the National Assembly the persons for positions of Cabinet Secretary," Uhuru said. Even if the three names were forwarded to the National Assembly, nothing much would happen as both Speaker Justin Muturi and Clerk Michale Sialai are out of the country on official duties. Once the office of the speaker receives the names, Muturi through the office of the Clerk will be expected to put an advertisement in news papers calling on the public to make their submissions regarding the suitability of the nominees. The advert will also contain the date, when each of the nominees will be vetted by the Parliamentary Committee on Appointments. The committee is chaired by Muturi. Former State House comptroller Lawrence Lenayapa, who was nominated to be Kenya's ambassador to Netherlands, will be vetted by the committee on Defence and Foreign Relations. Yesterday, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Dule said MPs had in December approved a motion allowing the speaker to forward names of Cabinet nominees directly to the Committee on Appointments, without recalling the House for a special sitting. MPs are currently on a recess until mid February. “It will take 14 days of public participation and scrutiny of the nominees before the Committee on Appointments starts the vetting. The House will then be recalled from recess to approve or reject the nominees,” Duale said. Cabinet Secretaries Henry Rotich (National Treasury), Fred Matiang'i (Interior and acting Education), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Charles Keter (Energy), James Macharia (Transport) and Najib Balala (Tourism), who were retained, need not to undergo a fresh vetting. Uhuru has kept the nation guessing on when he will name the remaining members of the Cabinet. State House had on Saturday said the President will "in the coming days" complete the reconstitution of his Cabinet. "His Excellency the President will complete the task of assembling the team to serve in his second term, guided by merit, integrity, commitment to service, and in terms of the Constitution," State House spokesman Monoah Esipisu said. All the current CSs are still required to report to work "until otherwise advised." Most of them reported to work yesterday.    