There shall, in the future, be no community with an illiterate family, nor a family with an illiterate person.—Fundamental Code of Education, 1872 [Japanese Government Document] Low secondary school enrolment at the Coast will hold back the aspirations of so many boys and girls and their families. It will also irreparably undermine prosperity and stability for the foreseeable future. Business and political leaders should agonise over this, even though education is the preserve of the national government. The quality and strength of the political, economic and social life and prospects of the counties will depend, in large measure, on a certain standard of intelligence of the masses. The nation and the counties cannot satisfy their goals and objectives without an educated populace. Conduct of government, administration, trade, industry and even governance require that the people have knowledge, skills, attitudes, habits of thinking and behaviour. It is schooling, it is basic education that has the capacity to nurture the literacy and numeracy skills necessary. People can achieve so much with these skills and achieve next to nothing without them. The ability to read, write and count are but foundations, the launching pad for acquiring what wider skills that people need to master their own lives. In principle and practice, secondary curriculum consolidates skills acquired at primary level and the development of positive attitudes, values, personality and interests. Further, secondary educational experience (in form three and four) strengthens knowledge, skills and values acquired at the lower secondary level. The curriculum focuses on the development of interests, personality, attitudes and values, with specialisation in some fields to cater to the needs of higher education and future careers. Secondary education improves children’s prospects. It helps them realise their innate potential and overcome the constrictions that a lifetime of minimal literacy provides. It will strengthen their influence on the increased political opportunities, thanks to devolution. They will make informed decisions as citizens during competitive electoral politics, as well as during public policymaking and implementation. In a nutshell, secondary education and hopefully post-secondary education training will make them their own masters. Child marriage, drug peddling and abuse stifle children’s potential. The shortlived sensual pleasure with tourists on the beaches is delusional. The investments the government is making in primary education is lost if children fail to take advantage of the opportunities for further schooling. The Constitution provides for free and compulsory basic education. Those who fail to enrol children in school risk arrest and imprisonment. The political consequences of children in any region not going to school are more devastating than the risk of arrest. “… Illiteracy can also muffle the political opportunities of the underdog, by reducing their ability to participate in political arena and to express their demands effectively. This can contribute directly to their insecurity, since the absence of voice in politics can entail a severe reduction of influence and the likelihood of just treatment of those who are kept on the wrong side of the gap,” Nobel Prize Economist Amartya Sen observed in a speech at the Commonwealth education conference in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 2003. Japan has used education to modernise its economy and military ever since it instituted universal and centralised education to all classes nearly 150 years ago. Communications officer, Education ministry