After over three months out of the game with career threatening knee injury experienced shot-stopper Wycliffe Kasaya is back in training in what will be a bog boost to Mathare United. Kasaya, who has been out of action since September last year, joined his teammates for pre-season training on Tuesday at the Goan Institute grounds after recovering from a first degree meniscus tear on his left knee. “It feels good to be back. It has not been easy with the surgery and the recovery. It has taken a lot of sacrifice to reach here. I had to train throughout the Christmas holidays to be ready to join my teammates this month. I thank God for the far I have come,” said Kasaya on the club’s official portal .  With only three weeks to go before Mathare begin their 2018 campaign with an away match at Vihiga United, it is unlikely that the Harambee Stars goalie will be between the posts for the season opener but this is something that is, evidently, not giving him sleepless nights. “I will be ready to play in two to three weeks. We have a target as a team but personally I will be fighting to be in the first 11 or the first 18. “I want to play more matches than last season. We have a new keeper Job (Ochieng’) who is a bright prospect in this department. I am the most experienced in the team and I want to use my experience to lead the rest,” added the Kenyan international. He will be competing for starting places with Ochieng and Mark Kioko. Meanwhile, Sofapaka new boy Vitalis Akumu is determined to succeed at the Batoto Ba Mungu camp in what will be his fourth season in the top flight league . The Kakamega High School (Green Commandos) product boasts a rare virtue of being a utility player and his performance at relegated Western Stima was there for all to see. “I may be mistaken for a braggart but I want to categorically point out that I can play in any position. That is Akumu for you and if I get a chance in Sam Ssimbwa’s line-up, I will make Sofapaka fans a happy lot,” said Akumu. Akumu was in the crack Green Commandoes squad that won the national finals in 2014 after a 1-0 win over Kisumu Day at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega, having joined Western Stima a year earlier while in Form 3. The affable player added: “I am here to play football and I don’t anticipate anything short of winning the league title with Sofapaka.”