A Nairobi court will today rule whether police will be allowed to detain a Muslim cleric arrested in Marsabit over links to terrorism. Milimani senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku yesterday adjourned the ruling after police had requested to hold Sheikh Guyo Gorsa for 30 days. Gorsa was arrested at a madrasa on Saturday. Police want more time to conclude investigations. Prosecutor Duncan Ondimu told the court that intelligence information had indicated that Gorsa was involved in terrorism. He said the suspect's phone was yet to be subjected to a forensic examination. Police confiscated the phone during the arrest. "The intelligence report shows the suspect has been in constant communication with a number of well-known terrorists based in Somalia," Ondimu said. The court heard that the suspect, together with associates had been planning attacks within the country. Conspiracy to commit a terrorist act, radicalisation, recruitment of members to a terrorist group and membership of a terrorist group are among the charges police are preparing against Gorsa. Violence erupted in Marasabit following Gorsa's arrest on Saturday. Three people were killed as protesters clashed with police. Ondimu said the violence was instigated by Gorsa's close associates who are being sought by police. He told the court that releasing the suspect would jeopardise investigations and the arrest of the associates. He said that at the time of the arrest of the suspect, riots were reported at Marsabit town by about 400 youths who attacked police officers, the group also tried to attack Marsabit police station but were successfully repulsed by police officers. The court heard that the same youth who were acting on the suspect instruction damaged a local Catholic Cathedral, several businesses were attacked and looted and several vehicles belonging to National Police Service were damaged extensively and one of the vehicle was burnt to ashes. Ondimu also told the court that several police officers sustained serious injuries and some are currently admitted in the hospital following the same riots. He said that National Police Service firearm was stolen by the group of riot youths. The court heard that pursuant to the violent riots that occurred there was death of one individual and the circumstances of the death are currently being investigated. "That the activities of the suspect who is an influential person in Marsabit and his associates pose a great risk to the National Security and security of the entire peace loving human race in the World and his action must be fully investigated," said Ondimu. In respond to the prosecution application Shiekh, through his lawyers led by Chacha Muita strongly opposed the application, saying that prosecution has not tabled compelling reasons to warrant the 30 days detention. They said allegation made by prosecution lack enough evidence as they are just mere hearsay based on intelligence information. They asked the court to released the suspect on bond since he is not a flight risk. Lawyers also urged the court to allow the ATPU hold him for more than two days as they have no sufficient evidence of him committing an offense. He also dismissed the allegation that Shiekh gave instructions to the youths to riot and damage to property, saying that the youths may have rioted because of the love they accorded him and it may also have instigated by police insisting on arresting him.