Book: Freshwater Author: Akwaeke Emezi Genre: Autobiographical Fiction  Nigerian author Akwaeke Emezi’s debut novel Freshwater explores the many layers of identity, told through the life of a Nigerian woman called Ada, who possesses several selves. This book is hard to review and frustrating to read at the beginning because it is hard to decipher exactly who is talking. Is it Ada, Saint Vincent, Asughara or any of the main character’s other personalities? It is no doubt a brilliant book, but certainly requires a lot of patience to get through and grasp exactly what this story is about. I found that some parts of this book didn’t make sense, the role of some characters wasn’t clear and the story would have still made sense without them, and the writing tended to be too cryptic at times. The narration is told from the various personas within Ada in a gripping layered tale that explores the metaphysics of mental health and self identity — it straddles that fine line between being and self. Already making waves as one of the new literary voices of her generation, Akwaeke’s book is much more than an artful blend that delves into everything from Multiple Personality Disorder, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, anxiety, suicide, panic attacks, lust, violence, sex, dysfunctional families and much more. It explores how past traumas can affect one’s mental well-being. Ada is born in Nigeria after her religious parents Saul and Saachi successfully pray her into existence, but the more troubled and volatile she becomes, the more apparent it becomes that something has gone wrong with this child. When she finally moves to America for college, the different selves within her finally become powerful. A traumatising assault sets off a chain reaction in which her alter egos Asughara and Saint Vincent become dominant, while Ada herself slowly fades into the back realms of her own mind. Her life begins to take dangerous turns. The book’s cover features an illustration by artist Ruby Onyinyechi Amanze, and while there really isn’t anything to compare this book to, you will just have to read it to find out.  Star Rating: 4/5