Fear of lawsuits for breach of contract and reversion to manual payments was the deciding factor in Governor Mike Sonko’s retention of WebTribe. WebTribe owns JamboPay, the online payment system launched in April 2014, and is in charge of revenue automation. The company was contracted by former Governor Evans Kidero to boost revenue collections. WebTribe has so far automated 92 out of 134 streams. During campaigns for the August 8 election, Sonko said he would terminate the contract with the “extortionist” firm within 100 days in office. “We will replace all irregularly and illegally obtained contracts, including WebTribe’s extortionist payment system, JamboPay,” he said in his manifesto. It had been said Sonko’s reluctance to replace the firm was one of the reasons for Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe’s dramatic resignation. Igathe wanted the contract terminated and a new firm contracted. SH5 BILLION But yesterday Sonko said the county would have lost millions of shillings for breach of contract. He said JamboPay had integrated systems at City Hall with those of key banks in town and it would have taken three months for another firm to do the integration. “So I would have lost revenue and I would have gone back to the manual system,” Sonko said. He said he introduced strict measures with the firm, including channeling all the money to the bank immediately it is collected. Sonko said the firm used to collect a maximum of Sh7 million per day, but this has since increased to Sh80-Sh90 million per day because of the strict measures he introduced. “Between November and December 31, I have collected Sh3.7 billion and since January 1 to date, we have managed Sh1.3 billion. We are using this money for salaries. Money from the national government is now going to development,” he said. Sonko said the firm’s contract will end in two months and it will not be renewed. The five-year contract documents seen by the Star show it will end in April 2019. It was signed in April 2014. WebTribe receives 4.5 per cent of money transacted through the system. WebTribe CEO Danson Muchemi attributed low collections during Kidero’s tenure to few automated streams. “We had done 14 streams but today we are hitting 100. That’s why we have increased collection from about Sh7m to Sh100m a day,” he said. It handles payment for single business permits, rates, parking, education, inoculation and garbage collection.  