There’s no digital learning, no promised tablets for pupils, laptops for teachers or electricity to power them. Instead, the pupils of Kotuga Primary School in Suna West, Migori, are struggling in a harsh, some say intolerable learning environment. Most classes are held under trees, others in collapsing mud classrooms. The floors are earthen and dusty, exposing barefoot pupils to jiggers. Tables and desks are rare. Kotuga Primary is barely 10 years old. It has 200 pupils and 10 teachers, including two for the ECDE classes. It had 75 pupils in 2014. Enrollment is increasing. Despite the odds, some pupils scored above average. Parents and teachers say pupils would perform better if there were a decent school. In its first KCPE exam in 2015, the best candidate scored 278 marks. In 2016, the leading pupil had 302 marks. Last year, its best score was 333. The Sh60,000 the school gets yearly from the government covers ‘maintenance’ and miscellaneous expenses. This is capitation for free education. LOWER CLASSES UNDER TREE Suna West MP Peter Masara said on Friday he is aware of the problems. “It’s in the plan for upgrade once the CDF team receives funding from the government. Similar schools will also be upgraded,” he said. On Thursday when the Star visited, teachers were seated under a mango tree, which serves as their office. All the ECDE and lower classes are conducted under another tree. Head teacher John Mathira Bita said many pupils no longer attend class. “Many children in lower classes, especially those in ECDE, drop out of school, with many others skipping lessons,” Mathira said. They have few teaching materials. EDCE teachers struggle to meet lesson objectives. “We don’t have adequate teaching and learning resources to implement the ECDE syllabus effectively,” Mathira said. “The free primary school money distributed per head is not enough to build a staffroom or make desks for pupils.” The school has had to use Mathira’s house, a few metres away, to store books and records. NO BLACKBOARD The last time Kotuga received cash from the CDF kitty was 2015. ECDE teacher Caroline Otieno said she has merged her pupils with Class One learners because they don’t even have a blackboard. “Before that, we had to teach orally or make drawings in the air. With conditions like that, how do you expect children to learn?” she asked. 