Game meat is being packed as ordinary parcels in gunny bags and ferried to Nairobi for sale. The uninspected meat lands in city butcheries and is purchased by unsuspecting residents. Drought has taken toll in most parks and ranches. This has prompted an exodus of wildlife. Many animals roam in search of food and water — only to fall prey to poachers. Buffalo, zebras, elands, impalas and warthogs are targetted. The Kenya Wildlife Service and security officers yesterday seized more than 500kg game meat from a matatu on the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road. The Nairobi-bound meat was packed in gunny bags. Police launched a crackdown on the highway, near Kayole estate after they got a tip-off from locals. Resident James Kiambi said the matatu was loaded with the meat before it headed back to the highway to collect passengers. The PSV makes weekly trips to the estate on the pretext of collecting parcels, he said. one suspect arrested “The security officers acted on a tip-off, blocked the vehicle as it got to the highway and arrested one suspect,” Kiambi said. One suspect escaped. Police are hunting for him. Investigations revealed the game meat was destined to Nairobi, the officer in charge of the Hellsgate National Park, Hapicha Ellema, said. She said the meat was packed in gunny bags and they suspected it was buffalo meat. “Our officers in a joint operation with officers from regular and the Administration Police managed to recover the game meat that was being transported to Nairobi,” Ellema said. rise in illegal trade KWS said many wild animals are leaving national parks and ranches to search for food because of drought and this makes it easy for poachers to kill them. There has been a rise in game meat trade on estates surrounding the national parks and ranches and in Nairobi, it said. “Naivasha and environs record harsh weather conditions and this makes wild animals stray from parks.” The worst-hit areas include Ol Morogi, Ol Suswa, Ndabibi, Manera Farm and Kasarani in North Lake. Last week, KWS officers arrested two suspects and recovered game meat in Elementaita, Gilgil, which was being ferried on a motorcycle to the market. “We suspect the meat is ferried to various joints in Nairobi,” Ellema said. She said they will intensify the war on poaching and prosecute culprits. In some areas, human-wildlife conflicts have increased. Residents complain that the animals invade their farms and destroy crops and property. They also expose motorists to accidents, as they cross the roads.  