Some Mandera MCAs yesterday accused Governor Ali Roba of doing little to improve residents’ lives. The MCAs spoke to journalists in Mandera town. They said they will not sit back and watch as public resources are wasted.  MCA Hillow Hassan said despite more than Sh1.7 billion going to the Health department, there is little to show on the ground in terms of quality healthcare. Hassan is also chairman of the Health committee.  He said out of the Sh1.7 billion allocated to department, the county only set aside Sh60 million for medicine for the whole year. “This is a case of misplaced priorities by the executive. It is unfortunate that a huge chunk of this amount goes to paying staff and building unnecessary structures that have remained unused,” he said. Rhamu MCA Kullow Alio said the MCAs will remain steadfast in playing their oversight role. “We assure Mandera residents that we will remain focused and play our role as enshrined in the Constitution. When we do this, it should not be misconstrued to mean we are fighting the governor,” Kullow said. Roba was elected on a Jubilee ticket and has had frosty relations with the MCAs. They are mostly aligned to the Economic Freedom Party, who are the majority. Recently Roba said he is solely focused on delivering on his campaign pledges.  He urged politicians to join him in developing the county facing numerous problems after years of neglect by the national government. Two weeks ago, some MCAs warned Roba against unprocedural sacking of county employees. In September last year, Mandera MCAs elected on the Economic Freedom Party walked out of the assembly chambers during the official opening by Roba. The 27 MCAs left immediately Roba began reading his speech, and only 16 members elected on the Jubilee ticket remained.  Speaking to journalists outside the chambers, the EFP members, led by then majority leader Abdi Ali, accused Roba of not involving them in forming the executive. They said this was despite their being the majority in the House. Roba’s speech was conciliatory, asking MCAs to bury their differences and serve the people. “Mandera is for all of us and everybody has a say in the running of the county affairs through public participation and assembly debates,” he said.