Three NASA MPs have accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of dragging the country back to the days of "the oppressive Moi regime". Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala, Peter Katana (Kaloleni), and Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) said this followed State House summonses to defiant MPs. The leaders claimed Jubilee MPs have on many occasions been summoned and given instructions on what to do in Parliament. Read: Defiant MPs summoned to State House Wanjala said Uhuru has been using different organs to try and whip MPs to tow his line. He said it is only in the Moi regime when MPs were deliberately made poor so they can easily be manipulated by money. "He bought an MP a Prado the other day. An MP can easily afford a Prado. But they had to use the SRC to try and reduce MPs salaries so they are easily bought off," Wanjala said. Katana, who is a first time MP, said Parliament should be left to do its work independently. "We want Parliament to be left independent to oversight how the government," Katana said. "It seems State House wants certain people who they can manipulate. We want MPs and committee to properly oversight how the government utilizes public money," he said. Wamalwa said Parliament cannot work under pressure from the executive. The three spoke at Sarova Whitesands Hotel in Mombasa on Monday during the joint induction seminar of the Public Accounts Committee, Public Investments Committee and Specials Funds Accounts Committee. The three are the main watchdog committees in the National Assembly. Their sentiments came in wake of a storm within Jubilee which has seen four of its MPs rebel against party leaders Uhuru and DP William Ruto. The four, Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Kipkoech (Moiben), David Bowen (Marakwet East) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North), have accused Jubilee of denying them their rights. This was after they were de-whipped from parliamentary committees for disobeying directives from Uhuru and Ruto not to contest for the chairmanship of the committees. Keter won Labour and Social Welfare Committee chairmanship, Tiren became the chair of the Agriculture and Livestock Committee, Bowen made it to the chair position of the Environmental and Natural Resources Committee while Mwangi got the Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library Committee chairman position. They got a reprieve after the High Court blocked the National Assembly from removing them from the committees. Read: MPs defy Ruto, refuse to resign On Monday, the NASA MPs scoffed at the National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai after he announced that some of the MPs at the retreat, who are also in the Agriculture committee, were needed in Nairobi for a meeting with government officials. Wanjala said the MPs should not be allowed to leave the induction retreat. Also read: Pressure on MPs to quit House positions may split Ruto's allies Click here for the latest political news    