A Nakuru businessman – Joseph Ng’era  has moved to court to halt the prolonged tussle over the ownership of St Mary’s Mission Hospitals. Ng’era who donated 58 acres of land at Elementaita in Nakuru where one of the hospital is situated, said he opted to move to court to end the suffering of myriads of patients due to paralyzed delivery of services. Ng’era told the media yesterday that decision to award the nuns the management of the troubled facilities based at Lang’ata in Nairobi and Elementaita was shocking.   “I am moving to Nakuru High Court to challenge the takeover of the hospital’s management by the Assumption Sisters of Nairobi,” Ngera said. Ng’era maintains he donated the land at Elementaita to Fryda who is also a medical doctor, but not to the ASN. The hospital’s Head Nurse Salesio Maragu said: “The process of analyzing destruction of property at this facility is ongoing but I hope the wrangles will end soon and operations return back to normal”. Recently, the Environment and Lands Court in Nakuru allowed the Assumption Sisters of Nairobi (ASN) to take over the management of the multibillion shillings hospitals located in Lang’ata and Elementaita. This was after a seven-year legal battle between William Charles Fryda, an American missionary who founded the hospital, and ASN. On Friday, fear gripped the hospital at Elementaita after members of staff halted provisions of services, fearing forceful evictions by the new management that had taken over. Police however thwarted any possible chaos at the facility led by Gilgil deputy county commissioner Mithike Ndambuki. Ndambuki said he opted to man the hospital after receiving reports that some staff had planned to steal property before handing over to the new management. Police barred relatives from admitting more patients to the facility, with some opting to transfer them to the nearby hospitals in the county.  “We came to try and quell the tension among the hospital staff who had paralyzed activities at the hospital for fear of their lives. We learnt that some of them had run away after they suspected that police would come to evict them at night,” Ndambuki said.