Embu Governor Martin Wambora’s agents have protested alleged bias in the vote recount ordered by the court. The agents yesterday stormed out of the counting hall in protest of abrupt changes in rules. Led by Embu county assembly’s majority chief whip Margaret Kariuki, they accused Embu court deputy registrar Vincent Nyakundi of refusing to give them signed copies of forms in which the counted and scrutinised results are entered. At a press conference, Kariuki said all agents, who are overseeing the scrutiny of the votes, had agreed they’ll given copies. She said they have been getiing them from Monday. Kariuki said they asked the deputy registrar why he changed the rules abruptly and he said, “I’m following orders from above”. unfair, suspicious Kariuki said it’s unfair and suspicious, adding that they would not accept the changes because they  want the truth. She said the will of the  people of Embu can only be ascertained if the recount and scrutiny are transparent. Kariuki said copies of filled and signed scrutinised votes forms are useful  for tracking results of the counted polling stations. swapping, doctoring claims Justice William Musyoka ordered a recount of the votes for the governor election and scrutiny of Forms 37A and 37B in 350  polling stations  on January 18. The recount is being done  in Manyatta, Runyenjes, and Mbeere South constituencies over claims of inflation, swapping, doctoring, and stealing. Musyoka, who is hearing the petition filed by former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti against Wambora, said during the hearing there was evidence votes of various candidates were exaggerated across board. He further said there was evidence, as submitted by parties, to the effect that there was swapping of results, resulting  in the figures submitted differing with what was recorded on the entry forms. Musyoka said  it was recorded from witnesses’ evidence that candidates were given more votes than they had actually garnered and that candidates lost more votes than they had actually got. Efforts to seek a comment from Nyakundi were futile, journalists are not allowed in the recount venue.