Producers in Kitui have protested against the ban on charcoal production and sand harvesting. The county government imposed the ban following environmental concerns. Patrick Kituku, the chairman of the Charcoal Production Network in Kitui, said yesterday said it was unfair for the county to make the decision without involving stakeholders. “We only heard about the ban on a local FM station,” he said on the phone yesterday. Kituku said his association will decide what action to take once it receives formal communication from the authorities. On Tuesday, following a meeting on the adverse effects of charcoal burning and sand harvesting between Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and county commissioner Boaz Cherutich, a total ban on charcoal production and sand harvesting was imposed.  ngilu writes letter After the meeting, Ngilu wrote a letter addressed to charcoal producing and transporting associations as well as sand harvesters in Kitui. It read, “Following a consultative meeting held today [on Tuesday] between the national and the county governments, it has been resolved there be a total ban on sand harvesting and charcoal production forthwith.” Ngilu and Cherutich raised concerns about the high rate of environmental degradation caused by the wanton felling of trees. They said the ban followed complaints from residents. “The county is losing millions of trees every year to charcoal producers while our rivers have remained dry year-round due to the high rate of sand harvesting. This trend must stop,” Ngilu said. She said her administration will support the national government’s efforts to reduce environmental degradation. She said the county government Inspectorate team will enforce the ban.  kitui south worst-hit Cherutich said the worst-hit areas include Mutha and Ngomeni locations in Kitui South and North subcounties. Many lorries with loads of charcoal find their way to Nairobi every day. He said sand and charcoal cartels have frustrated national security efforts to curb the destruction of trees. He welcomed the involvement of the county government, saying it will go a long way in containing the issue as many checkpoints will be established. Cherutich cited the Kitui South game reserve which herders from neighbouring counties have encroached on and turned to charcoal producers supplying tonnes of the produce to merchants from Nairobi. He said approximately 7,000 herders have established manyattas in the gazetted area and become charcoal producers who collude with transporters. 