A 13-year-old orphan who almost failed to join secondary school on Friday was happy after well-wishers, including the dreaded Flying Squad officers, paid her school fees. This was hours before the end of the reporting deadline. Anne Wanjiru reported at Precious Blood Kagwe Girls Secondary School, where she was admitted in form one. Well-wishers came to her aid after the Star published her appeal for help on Wednesday. They raised a little over Sh70,000. Wanjiru needed Sh41,855 to join Form One. Wanjiru said her dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon have been renewed after the generous contributions. Among notable contributors to her education kitty are two flying Squad officers who raised Sh26,400. The Flying Squad officers are head of operations John Njoroge and his deputy Mohammed Gosarr. The officers gave the cash to a Star journalist, who deposited it in the bank and accompanied the girl to her new school in Kiambu county. “I didn’t know we have such good police officers. I have always thought of police officers as brutal people, but now I know there are good officers,” Wanjiru said. The two officers have promised more support to the girl in her education. She scored 340 marks out of a possible 500 to secure a place in the school. Wanjiru almost lost her place at the school since her uncle, a casual labourer, was unable to raise the cash required for her to join Form One. Peter Ndung’u and his wife Monicah Ndungu, both casual workers, have been taking care of Wanjiru and her sister after their mother died in 2009. “My uncle works hard to feed us and buy clothes for my sister and I,” Wanjiru said. Wanjiru’s younger sister, Margaret Nyokabi is in standard two. The Lari community, who also read of the girl’s appeal for help also chipped in. Kirenga chief Tabitha Njeri raised Sh21,000. The Upendo Group contributed Sh23,335.  Yesterday, principal Joy Gitonga urged Wanjiru to work hard in her studies. Lari deputy county commissioner Aaron Koros thanked the well-wishers, saying education is the only asset a parent or a guardian can give to a child. Click here for latest political news