Students of St Mary High school in Kibabii went on a rampage on Sunday night to stop their new principal from taking over. The students smashed window panes and destroyed property of unknown value. Principal Nicodemus Ogeto was posted to the school during the recent mass transfers by the education ministry. Area county director of education Jacob Onyiengo visited the school in a bid to solve the crisis. But Ogeto said normalcy had returned and termed it a small misunderstanding that had been ironed out. "There is no cause for alarm the students are back to class and we are already teaching," he said. There has been resistance in several schools that have been affected by the transfers A recent case being that of Friends school Kamusinga where MCAS stormed the school and ejected the principal. They were arrested in a Bugoma court and charged. Acting Education CS Fred Matiangi told off those opposed to the transfer of school principals saying their actions reflect barbarism. The CS said one of the reasons Kenya is yet to achieve national integration is the notion that people must work in their home areas. "I don’t understand why a principal from Siaya cannot be a principal in Kiambu. I don’t understand why a principal in Loitokitok cannot be a principal in Kisumu," Matiang’i said last week. More on this: ‘Stop this foolishness': Matiang’i tells off teacher transfer opponents Also read: MCAs eject Kamusinga principal Earlier, Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati said his opposition to some of the principals was not tribal. He said he was opposed to some of them based on merit. "They can even bring a Ugandan here I have no problem, but you can't post a teacher who has been commanding less population in his former station and also with a lower mean grade with whoever was taking over,' he insisted He gave an example of Kamusinga whose Principal Alex Maina who had a mean grade of 5.9 and had come to head a school which had maintained a mean score of 9 and above. He was speaking at Naitiri secondary school during the school's Golden Jubilee celebrations.  Click here for the latest political news