The Cabinet system of government, which we inherited from the British, is predicated on the principle of collective responsibility. This principle holds that Cabinet decisions are collectively binding, regardless of the differing opinions of individual members. This governing principle tells us much about the fundamental function of the Cabinet, which is to make collective Executive decisions regarding policy. In our present presidential system of Executive government, the President, with approval of Parliament, appoints Cabinet members. Cabinet secretaries should not be MPs, but it does not necessarily follow that they should not be politicians. It should be remembered that the Cabinet should perform its function by engaging in robust and vibrant debate about the various political issues facing the government. Post this debate, it is expected to develop a decision, which shall be binding. It is at this decision-making level that the present relationship in Kenya between the Presidency (the institution, not the individual) and the Cabinet is unclear, at least to an outside observer. To what extent is the Cabinet designed to be an “implement-the-bosses-orders” institution versus a “we shall take a binding vote on this matter” institution, which the President can overrule at his or her own discretion and risk? The experience of the last five years suggests a leaning towards the former. This was reflected in the first Jubilee administration’s seeming obsession with “technocratic” Cabinet secretaries. Without in any way casting aspersions upon any particular individual, the holding of multiple degrees and an impressive professional CV in no way qualifies one to pass judgment as to how a particular policy decision will play out in Webuye, Wote or Wajir. There is a delusion amongst certain sectors of Kenya’s civil society and intelligentsia that policy is somehow a thing apart from politics, that the former is clean and well-defined, whilst the latter is dirty, reactive, and involves little more than dancing well in the village. Nothing could be further from the truth. Policy is the strategic approach taken to implement a particular political decision. It is these political decisions, expressed as policies, which the Cabinet fundamentally exists to make. This is why the principle of collective responsibility evolved, and why it is so important. A Cabinet, correctly formed, is the most powerful affairs-of-state-management tool available to the President. This is because a Cabinet, correctly formed, will include amongst its number the leaders of all the key constituencies and interest groups within the republic. As an aside, what we should disinherit from the British is the oppositional ruling-party-only approach to the Cabinet formation. It does not work for us. The same British formed a unified all-parties Cabinet in World War II, and are we not also at war with poverty and its siblings? The various key constituency leaders within a correctly formed Cabinet will no doubt clash and disagree repeatedly, but in so doing, they will enable and guide the President towards political decisions that are acceptable to a clear majority of citizens. Furthermore, once these decisions have been reached, the binding principle of collective responsibility will behove these same leaders within Cabinet to ensure their various constituencies fall in line behind the decision. This is the fundamental reason why a good Cabinet should and must comprise “political heavyweights”. Without the national weight given to it’s decisions by such membership, implementation of the decisions and policies that flow from it will begin and probably remain forever on the back foot. In Kenya’s case, a Cabinet of political heavyweights will of necessity be largely comprised of the leadership of a significant majority of, if not all of, the key ethnic groups in the country, and as such, will as accurately as possible represent the true range and variety of interests of all. Why anyone would want the Cabinet to be otherwise is quite beyond me. Armed and equipped with these heavyweights, differentiated in shades of opinion but united behind its decisions, the work of the President will be much easier, much more efficient and effective. However, in order for him to enjoy the benefits of such a Cabinet, the President must recognise his individual and unique responsibility to weigh the deliberations of the Cabinet with all seriousness, balance the conflicting interests within it, and ensure that its barons remain united behind a common goal. This is the loneliness of Kingship. As always, it is ultimately a matter of simple realpolitik. Even a country as ethnically homogenous as Iceland contains within it multiple strands of opinion. To attempt to manage this country without co-opting and binding the true leadership of these key groups within one’s Cabinet is an exercise in futility. It is a terrible and collective indictment upon our political elite that their failure to consistently form a reasonably unified and representative Cabinet from amongst their membership leads to repeated bloodshed on our streets every five years. This is a wilful act of the highest collective irresponsibility.     