The government will start importing certified seeds from Israel to distribute to local small-scale cotton
farmers as part of efforts towards reviving the industry. The high yield seeds are sourced from Hazera Genetics through Amiran Kenya Limited.  The country is using KSA 81M and
HART 89M commercial varieties available with a potential cotton yield of 2500
hectares under rain fed cottons and 3500- 400kg/ha under irrigations. Fibre Crops Directorate interim
head Anthony Muriithi confirmed
that only 10.04 per cent of total land, 384,500 hectares is under the cotton
crop with only 40,000 farmers farming the crop. Cotton farmers are currently producing about 30,000
bales against 368,000 bales of lint. Production of
cotton was at its peak in 1984 when 70, 000 bales of lint were recorded. In
1970s and 1980s when cotton farming was second in the country in terms of
employment after public service, Bura used to produce 30 percent of the
national production followed by Meru region. “We exported textiles worth over Sh22 billion mainly from EPZ to
the USA under the African Growth Opportunity Act in 2016,” he said. farmers will benefit from
bulking seed programmes by Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research
Organization, the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Services and
ginneries. During the last Jamhuri Day celebrations, President Uhuru Kenyatta assured cotton farmers of government support as part of government's big four plan to enhance manufacturing, food
security, affordable housing and health care for all. The country has six privately
owned operational factories with a capacity utilization of between 17 and 31
per cent with 80 per cent of raw materials used in the facilities sourced from
the external markets.  The active factories include
Rivatex, Thika Cloth Mills, Fine Spinners, Sung Flag, African Cotton, and TSS
Cotton Mills. Ginneries currently
buy the crop from farmers at Sh46 per kilogramme. He said talks are underway between the national government, county governments and other value chain players to revive Mpeketoni, Malindi and Nyanza ginneries in the medium term. Due to low production, Kenya
government imports substantial amounts of cotton lint and seed cake for local
textile mills and feed manufacture mainly from Tanzania that
produces 15 times and Uganda whose output five times of Kenya’s production respectively every
year.  The cotton industry
collapsed between late 1980s and 90s after the liberalisation of the
agriculture sector following introduction of Structural Adjustment
Programmes by World Bank and
International Monetary Fund, leading to the collapse of most operational
ginneries. Currently, there are only
five operational ginneries in the country in Makueni, Kitui, Meru, Mpeketoni and
Salawa out of an establishment of 22 factories.  He said countries including USA, Brazil, India, Turkey and China have
expressed interest in investing in the industry. “The renewed interest is due to Kenya's enthusiasm to institute reforms, mobilizing farmers to embrace again the crop to enhance
their economic set up,” he said, adding that Brazil has signed an MoU with Kenya and have already identified
sites for seed production in Kisumu and Homabay counties.