The three-month long water crisis in Kwale is as a result of a Sh10 million unpaid power bill. Executive Hemed Mwabudzo said the Kwale Water and Sewerage Company has owed Kenya Power the cash for years. They are now planning to settle the bill with Kenya Power as soon as possible. Mwabudzo promised residents would have running water before the day ends yesterday. “We are going to settle the bill as directed by the governor,” he said on Monday. Mwabudzo told journalists Governor Salim Mvurya ordered his department to help the water firm pay the bill. He said there are cases of illegal water connections which have hurt the company. Failure by residents to pay their water bills has also contributed to the high amount, Mwabudzo said. “We have sacked part of the management that was incompetent,” he said. Kwale residents have relied on boreholes and waterpoint areas for drinking water, but pipes have since run dry. Smallscale traders who cannot afford an alternative water supply have been affected. They buy water at a high price. The problem has persisted and forced politicians to threaten to lobby residents to demonstrate if water supply is not improved. “I will lobby for a massive demonstration if supply is not restored,” Waa Ng’ombeni MCA Juma Mwasera said. Mwabudzo criticised the move and instead urged leaders to work together and address the problem. “We are all government officers. Whenever an issue comes up we need to come together and consult to help the residents. Demonstrations won’t settle bills,” he said. Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari when contacted for comments, he said that he will follow up with the county government and see how he can help. In 2015, Kwale town was hit by a shortage of water for a week after Kenya Power disconnected electricity. Residents were forced to walk for many kilometres to fetch water in wells after all reservoirs and taps dried up. “We had a debt of about Sh7 million with Kenya Power so they disconnected power, making it difficult to pump water to our customers,” said Francis Nzai, the Kwale Water Board chairman. The county government has already paid Sh2 million and will clear the balance soon. “The debt is accumulation of money by the previous management,” Nzai said. 