Mbeere South police on Saturday arrested a former MCA and one another person. The two were accused of organising the torching of Tana River Development Authority’s property. Former Kiambere MCA Martin Mwangi and Joseph Muriuki were arrested on Saturday night.Residents protested the alleged exploitation and harassment by Tarda officials and burnt down a Cess collection booth and demolished another one.The residents were protesting against the alleged destruction of their crops on the land under the management of Tarda.They also cited harassment by officials. The residents descended on the structures at Mutuavare at around 4pm on Saturday.They burnt one of the structures and pulled down another one, demanding that Tarda stops collecting revenue from traders buying sand harvested from the land under its control.They said the officials have been charging Sh2,000 for every lorry of sand while they have not repaired the roads in the sand mines.The residents also said the Tarda officials manhandle them.Following the violence, the police hunted down Mwangi and Muriuki and locked them at Kiritiri police station.They were released yesterday morning on Sh20,000 bond each.They were asked to report to court today to answer to charges of incitement, damage to property, and arson. The police at the same time thwarted a plan by MP Geoffrey Kingangi who allegedly planned to lead a demonstration to the station to demand the release of the two.The police reportedly went to the MP and several other leaders and talked them out of the plan.The discussion is said to have prevented a confrontation with riot police who were on standby. Mbeere South subcounty police boss Ahmed Muhammed confirmed the incident and the arrest of the two.He added that they are required to report to court.Speaking to the Star, Muhammed urged leaders to refrain from inciting residents to take the law into their hands but advise them to follow the right procedure. He at the same time asked leaders who lost in the last election not to engage in activities aimed at discrediting the elected leaders. Muhammed said it is important for the poll losers to join the winners in development activities pending the end of another five years before they can try again. King’angi told the Star on the phone that the two leaders had not incited the residents to destroy the structures but that the residents were acting out of anger, owing to frustration by Tarda officers.He said sand harvesting has been banned in the area but Tarda and some Administration Police officers, working with cartels, continue with the trade. They exploit residents, buyers and also fail to account for the proceeds.