Consumer lobby groups have slammed Business Premises and Rent Tribunal, and Rent Restriction Tribunal saying they cannot be trusted to solve the rising tenant complaints. Misunderstandings between landlords and tenants have been on the increase, in some instances leading to forced evictions through uncouth means such as disconnection of power and water, and refusal to refund tenants’ deposits. Consumer Federation of Kenya- COFEK secretary general Stephen Mutoro said the tribunals are underfunded by the government. He also said those who serve in these tribunals and those in control are landlords, making it hard for justice to be delivered. He termed them as ineffective bodies that are too vulnerable to corruption while condemning the rising harassment of tenants. “Going by reports from recent incidents, it is evident that most people are suffering in silence. What we need is awareness of the existing laws that protect both the tenants and landlords, and clarification of their rights,” Mutoro said. COFEK has now called on the relevant stakeholders to invest in creating public awareness on the existing laws that champion the rights of both the tenant and Landlords. Consumer Downtown Association executive director Japheth Ogutu called for synchronization of the consumer protection act and the regulations used by the Business Premises Rent Tribunal saying the two bodies often have misunderstandings, leading to delays in solving cases. The association is now proposing the formation of a consumer court that will specifically deal with consumer complaints, noting that the two tribunals have a backlog of cases, but lack the manpower to deliver. Real Estate firm RE/MAX said it will suspend unscrupulous landlords as it announced its intention to fix the flaws in the market. It would not work with landlords, tenants and agents who do not operate under the laid down standards. According to the firm, the increasing misunderstandings are likely to cause long term effects on revenue performance if not fixed. Real estate agency RE/MAX chief executive officer James Muratha said that they will restore sanity and entrench professionalism in the sector that has long been run by cartels. “If a landlord does not live upto set standards, we will not continue working with them,” Muratha said, listing some practises and behaviour that a number of home owners employ against tenants. Other policies they intend to push through in a bid to streamline the sector include making registration of agents more transparent and less cumbersome, and fast tracking the acquisition of property sales in the market. The firm noted that most agents in the country need training to help them in understand real estate and be in a position to offer proper guidance to their clients during execution of real estate transactions. “We are also focusing on providing training and passing skills on international best practice to agents and thereby bring a fresh way of doing business in this industry,” Muratha said. Efforts to reach the two tribunals for comments were unfruitful by the time of going to press.