Nurses in 13 counties have threatened to suspend their services in health facilities beginning Thursday next week because of unpaid salary arrears. They are owed varying amounts of monthly salaries from June last year, which the counties withheld during their five-month-long strike. The strike ended early November and the counties agreed to release all the arrears by December 31. “We direct all our members who are owed money by the concerned county governments to prepare and start having daily salary parades at their respective governors offices daily with effect from January 11, 2018 till all outstanding monies are paid,” said Seth Panyako, secretary general of the Kenya National Union of Nurses. Panyako was speaking yesterday at a press conference in Nairobi. The affected counties are Bungoma, Nakuru, Nyeri, Homa Bay, Elgeyo Marakwet, Tharaka Nithi, Makueni, Kakamega, Wajir, Laikipia, Kirinyaga, Murang’a and Kericho. Panyako said the union understands some counties are facing financial challenges and urged them to agree with the branch officials how the arrears will be paid. He said the daily picketing was not a strike, but if need be, the union would issue a strike notice legally. “They should follow the example of Nyamira where the county has reached an agreement with workers, but if need be, we are ready to open the year with an industrial action,” he said. Council of Governors CEO Jacqueline Mogeni was outside the country yesterday and could not respond to our queries. Chairman of the Health committee Mohammed Kuti, also the Isiolo governor, said they were consulting with the affected counties. "The counties are handling the matter separately, and they should reach an agreement," he said through a spokesman. Panyako also accused the counties of stalling the collective barganining agreement. “It was supposed to be ready by November 30 last year, but we keep on getting postponement letters (from council of governors). I responded to the latest one today,” he said.  A return-to-work agreement signed by the two parties in November required that the CBA be ready by December 2 — 30 days after the signing. According to the return-to-work formula, nurses would initially earn an extra cumulative allowance of Sh3,416 every month, beginning June next year. The nurses were also promised that their existing Sh10,000 annual uniform allowance will be increased by Sh5,000 every year from next year until 2020. Sh3,000 will also be added to their existing monthly nursing service allowance next year. Counties were then given two months to release all the salaries they withheld during the five months strike. The nurses had demanded a Sh15,400 monthly risk allowance, Sh5,000 monthly extraneous allowance and uniform allowance be increased from Sh10,000 to Sh50,000 per year. The governors and salaries and remuneration commission rejected the figures as unaffordable.