TripAdvisor on Thursday ranked Nairobi among the top 10 travel destinations in the world. The capital came third after Ishigaki in Japan and Kapaa in Hawaii. Then came Halifax (Canada), Gdansk (Poland), San Jose (Costa Rica), Riga (Latvia), Rovinj (Croatia), Nerja (Spain) and Casablanca (Morocco). "The winners were decided using an algorithm that measures the year-on-year increase in positive TripAdvisor ratings for restaurants, hotels and attractions, plus the number of destination bookings compared to previous years," the company said on its website. This was attributed to the fact that the compact city centre is safe to walk in and taxis make other areas accessible, giving it a clean bill of health in security. "Music clubs pulse with life, shops and markets bustle, and a mélange of restaurants will tempt your palate in this former Maasai watering hole,” the site says. According to the site, top sought sights are the Karen Blixen Museum, Giraffe Centre and the black rhinos of Nairobi National Park. “Known as the safari capital of Africa, Nairobi is an energetic, modern city that serves as a fascinating introduction to both wildlife and nightlife,” the company's website added. On accommodation, TripAdvisor notes favourable rates at most hotels, the cost being about £80 (Sh11,127) per night. Ishigaki, the top destination, is an island in Japan’s Okinawa Prefecture. It has landscapes including sandy beaches, rare coral, mountains and mangrove forests. Kapaa is a small town at the base of Kauai's Nounou mountain with many hotels, shopping centres and restaurants. It's also popular with watersport fans who can go kayaking and skiing. On Wednesday, Governor Mike Sonko called for cooperation, sacrifice and bravery to make Nairobi the city of choice for both Kenyans and other people from around the world. “It is therefore my sincere hope that all the executive committee members shall collectively rise to the call of duty, and join the rest of Nairobi in this transformative journey to reposition the city not only as a city of choice to invest, work and live in but also as the gateway to Africa,” Sonko said while officially opening the induction seminar for CEC's in Kilifi. Commerce, tourism and cooperative executive Allan Igambi will be on focus as he handles the docket. Sonko said the environment has to complement the status of Nairobi as the city of choice. He said all tourist facilities must be easily accessible and attractive to locals and non-locals. He said the ‘Ngarisha Jiji’ initiative which seeks to make the environment safe and clean has already started producing positive results. “This is just but the first step of an elaborate plan to making Nairobi the cleanest city in Africa. However, much more needs to be done,” Sonko said.    