Police are zeroing in on two theories about the grenade attack and shooting at NASA leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s home — a stage-managed event and political revenge. The NASA brigade calls the Wednesday 1am attack an assassination attempt. Investigators tell the Star that one theory is that NASA supporters attacked Kalonzo’s compound because they were furious he was absent from Raila’s swearing-in on Tuesday. He was to be sworn in as DP. Another theory is that it might have been orchestrated to create sympathy and demonstrate that NASA is under political and other seige. Read : Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath “We woke up to another bizarre incident of an attack on our brother’s home. It comes hot on the heels after security of all NASA leaders was withdrawn,” NASA leader Moses Wetang’ula told a press briefing yesterday at Kalonzo’s home. Kalonzo was present but did not comment. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana was present as was Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo. Later in the afternoon, NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi of ANC supported his remarks. “The intention was to harm the family and send a message to intimidate us,” Wetang’ula said. At about 1am a grenade was thrown into Kalonzo’s compound followed by successive gunshots, Maanzo said. “The gunmen in two vehicles took off when neigbours appeared and police cocked their guns,” he said. Wetang’ula said the incident cannot be linked to failure by the three NASA principals to accompany Raila to Uhuru Park on Tuesday for his swearing-in. Read : Raila's only option is to vie in 2022, Kalonzo a traitor - MP Odhiambo He did link it, however, to their demand for electoral reforms. “It is only security agencies or criminals who have assess to such grenades,” he said. Wetang’ula urged reinstatement their security, saying it’s aconstitutional right, not a privilege. Kalonzo recorded a statement with DCI Karen later in the day. He is said have recovered a live bullet and grenade pin, which he gave police. At the residence earlier, police spokesperson Charles Owino confirmed recovery of an unspent bullet. “There was an alleged shooting. At the scene where the grenade was hurled there was no disturbance nor smoke. This must must be a stun grenade used to scare people and not a hand grenade,” he said. “But let’s not speculate. We are still recording statements, collecting evidence and reviewing CCTV from neigbours to help in investigations.” Bomb Squad Unit head Eliud Langat, the DCI’s Nicholas Kamwende and other top police officers are leading the investigation. Click here for the latest political news 