Sanjay Thakkar struck a quick-fire half century to steer last year’s  finalists Stray Lions to a six-wicket win over defending champions Swamibapa as the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 league entered the fifth round yesterday in Nairobi.Thakkar hit 52 off 49 balls as Stray Lions reached 152 for 4 in 18.2 overs after restricting the home side to 149 for 7 at Nairobi Jafferys. He joined the club last week to beef up their batting after the unavailability of regulars Abraham Vadada and Manoj Sai.Despite losing opener Nadeem Ahmed early in the chase, Stray Lions never lost their grip on the match as Thakkar and Roger Mukasa put on 71 runs for the second wicket. Ahmed scored nine before he was caught off Elijah Otieno on the last ball of the opening over.Thakkar then received a decent stand from Mukasa, which got them to 86 in only 8.2 overs. Mukasa hit two sixes and a boundary in his 21 ball 32 before he was run out.Thakkar, who smashed three fours and a six, was the last batsman to fall with the board on 110. His dismissal brought in an unbeaten stand of 42 runs between Neil Narvekar (26) and SH Srinivas, who scored 17.“I wanted to finish the match but it was not possible. I will try next time. But the good thing was that I was able to open my account with a half century. I hope I will have more of this in the coming weeks,” said Thakkar, who was dismissed by James Ngoche.Earlier, S.H Srinivas led the bowling attack with 3 for 25 as Swamibapa only posted 149. Srinivas dismissed Pankaj Sangani (14), Subham Patel (3) and Mitesh Sangani (2) to tame the home team’s middle order.Swamibapa had a slow start, scoring 33 in the first seven overs and even a late cameo from the middle order didn’t help the situation.  Maurice Ouma and Divyang Patel were the only batsmen to give the visitors something to ponder over with 36 and 21 runs respectively. Mayur Pindoria added on 14 runs too.At Nairobi Gymkhana, the hosts easily bounced back to winning way with a 52-run win over Sir Ali Muslim Club.After posting 138 for six, the home team bowled out their visitors for 81, thanks to three wickets from Raj Savaala. Nairobi Gymkhana reached their total mainly due to half a century from Abdul Najmi. Najmi scored 57 from 44 balls that included seven boundaries and a six. Kavi Dosaja too was impressive with the bat with 41 off 35 balls. The loss saw Gopal Joshi’s 4 for 23 go in vain.