A host of politicians from Luhya land have continued to pile pressure on Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and his former New Ford-Kenya supporters to quit Jubilee Party. They have cited mistreatment of people from the region serving in the government. NASA principal and Ford-Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula on Saturday said Jubilee plans on sacking top government officials from the region. He spoke at the funeral of David Wachana in Bumula constituency. Wetang’ula cited the recent removal of Communication Authority managing director Francis Wangusi, whom he described as innocent and hardworking. “I am telling all of those who were duped and confused by Jubilee in this region that they are not wanted in that party. You are already seeing the writing on the wall,” Wetang’ula said. He described Jubilee Party and Uhuru’s Cabinet as an illegitimate government that only comprises two communities. Speaking separately, Amani’s secretary general George Osotsi told Wamalwa not to look desperate, but instead marshal his troops who joined Jubilee to move to NASA. “My brother should not be duped one more time. His being left out in the half cabinet means they consider him a second-class politician,” Osotsi said. He said whether Wamalwa is picked or not in the remaining Cabinet, President Uhuru Kenyatta had already showed little interest in the Mulembe people. Osotsi described Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto as only interested in using the Luhya people during campaigns and dumping them. He said Wamalwa, former Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba, former speaker Kenneth Marende and UDP leader Cyrus Jirongo were only used to get a sizeable vote. “The likes of Jirongo were only used to vie for the presidency thinking he will divide the Luhya. People like Marende have been dropped despite jumping to be with Jubilee, against our advice,” Osotsi said. This comes even after the now-defunct NFK officials continue piling pressure on Wamalwa to quit Jubilee. Bungoma Jubilee organising secretary Martin Wanyonyi said they were duped into folding their party only to be treated “badly” after elections. “When we were campaigning they told us Jubilee was a big house with many rooms. It is surprising how they have discovered it is a party of two tribes,” Wanyonyi said. He said they were considering quitting if their grievances are not considered. Reached for comment, Wamalwa did not comment on the matter. “No comment,” he said.