Four Jubilee rebel MPs ejected from the leadership of House committees against a court order now want the party to be charged with contempt. MPs Alfred Keter, Kangogo Bowen, Silas Tiren and James Gakuya were all ousted from various Parliamentary committee positions. Yesterday, Keter told the High Court that the decision to remove them from the positions was in disobedience of court orders. Keter lost his Labour
committee chairmanship after members voted to have
him ejected. The other three MPs were also ousted from their positions in similar fashion during a heated meeting at County Hall. The motion, by nominated MP David Sankok, was passed despite a court order stopping the move. On December 27, High Court judge John Mativo though the court had on December 27 issued orders stopping the removal of the
four Mps from their new positions pending hearing and determination of the
case. The four were controversially
elected to head the Labour and Social Welfare Committee (Keter), Agriculture
and Livestock Committee (Tiren), Environmental and National Resources Committee
(Bowen) and Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library Committee (Gakuya) during
the election held on December 20, but which went against the party’s preferred candidates. The four through lawyer
Frank Welukwe argues that no elections can be held to replace them as the same
is not anchored upon any law. “In any event no cogent
and lawful reason has been given as to why a vote of no confidence would be
sufficient  against us other than the
fact that the executive would prefer certain individuals over us,” the argue. In court yesterday, the lawyer
asked the judge to intervene and stop further action from being taken against them,
but justice Odunga said they were at liberty to file a formal application of
contempt. Inspite of the spirited
fight, speaker Justine Muturi says the court has no jurisdiction to hear the dispute
as it relates between the party and its members. Muturi further says the decision by the court
allowing the MPs to pursue the case is a nullity   having been made without jurisdiction and the
orders ought to be set aside. Justice Odunga allowed Alexander
Kimutai Kosgey (Emgwen) to come on board as an interested party. The case will be heard
on   February 6