TSC has refuted claims that its decision to terminate the services of teachers who were either elected or nominated to political posts was politically motivated. In a statement on Monday, TSC communications director Kihumba Kamotho said the decision was based on the provisions of the Code of Regulations for Teachers. She said it was also based on the Teachers Service Commission Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Public Officer and Ethics, Act and the Elections Act. Read: Sossion, Milemba fired by TSC for joining politics "In particular, Regulation 187 (1), of the Code of Regulations for teachers provides that a teacher under the employment of the Commission who intends to contest for political office shall resign or retire from service in accordance with these Regulations." "Regulation 187(2) further states that Regulation 187 (1), "shall also apply to teachers released by the Commission to Trade Unions," Kamotho said. Related: I will not resign from KNUT, Sossion says in response to vacate notice KUPPET chairman Omboko Milemba claimed at the weekend that the commission terminated his services despite having resigned from his post in April 2017. Kamotho denied the allegations and said the commission never received such communication from the Emuhaya MP prior to him vying for the seat in the August 8 election. "Indeed, the letter through which he says his resignation request was acknowledged and granted is not part of the records held by TSC. Moreover, TSC does not have in its employment an officer by the name P. K. Ayiego, who is alleged to have authored the letter on behalf of TSC chief executive," Kamotho said. He said Milemba and KNUT secretary general Wilson Sossion are not exempt from TSC requirements for teachers and teacher union officials who join politics to resign. [VIDEO] Chaos at KNUT meeting as officials demand Sossion exit "Other teachers who vied as Members of County Assemblies, MPs, or Governors tendered their resignation as required by the law. Hon Sossion and Hon Milemba are not exempt.” Kamotho noted that TSC was not looking to interfere with the leadership of unions but was simply effecting the law. Sossion, who is a nominated ODM MP, stated that TSC cannot purport to sack him because he is not a member of the commission. On December 13, 2017, Labour CS Phyllis Kandie issued a gazette notice directing Sossion and other trade union officials in nominated and elective political posts to vacate office. Among those affected included Governors Mutahi Kahiga, the former Knut executive secretary for the Nyeri branch and Baringo's Stanley Kiptis. Others are Kuppet assistant national treasurer Ronald Tonui who won the Bomet Central MP seat. Bungoma woman representative Catherine Wambilianga, (Kuppet gender secretary), Nyatike MP Tom Odege (secretary general of the Union of Kenya Civil Servants) were also ordered to vacate their union positions. Mulei Mwalowa, John Mwamusi, Florence Bore, Richard Cheserem also received the vacate notice. Read: Sossion, 10 others to lose union jobs in new directive Click here for the latest political news