Anyang Nyong’o has praised High Court judge David Majanja for throwing out the petition that challenged his election as Kisumu Governor. Nyong’o, who is in the USA on official duty, said the ruling confirmed he was validly elected on August 8, 2017. “We thank God that we have started the new year with good news of Majanja's decisive ruling ... that there was nothing in the case that former Governor Jack Ranguma brought as a petition against us,” he said in a phone interview on Wednesday. “The judgment showed Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and I [got many votes from] the people of Kisumu." Nyong'o noted the time for politics is over and that leaders must now unite and work together for the sake of development. The Governor thanked county residents for standing firm and remaining united during the "trying times". “We are victorious. Let us continue with the foundation that we have laid so far to build Kisumu,” he said. “We are looking at a future that is bright with the eagles. Llet us stand together. Tichtire (work is done) He wished the people of Kisumu, Kenyans and NASA leaders led by Raila Odinga a happy New Year. Also read: Ruling on polls case against Nyong’o set for January 3 Ranguma asked the court to nullify Nyong’o’s win on grounds that the election was neither free nor fair. This, he argued was contrary to stipulations in article 81 of the constitution and section 39 of Elections Act, 2011. He raised concerns about the transmission of results; lack of impartiality, neutrality, efficiency, accuracy and accountability on the IEBC's part, lack of operational transparency and improper voting, counting and tabulation of results. But Majanja dismissed the petition the ex-county chief failed to prove his case against Nyong'o. He said petition was not complex and that the issues were fairly straightforward as manifested by the pleadings and submissions tendered, the number of witnesses and the nature of their evidence on record. Majanja ordered Ranguma to pay Sh5 million as the cost of the petition. More on this: [VIDEO] Blow to Ranguma as Anyang' Nyong'o petition dismissed with Sh5m cost Owili, Kisumu Senator Fred Outa and woman representative Rosa Buyu also praised the court. “Let us now deliver our pledges to the electorate. Elections are over ... we cannot build Kisumu with too much politics,” the DG said. Click here for the latest political news 