There is a potential outbreak of untreatable skin boils in some public universities, researchers have said. The warning comes after a large number of student were found to be colonised by drugs-resistant bacteria that cause hard-to-treat boils and a multitude of other skin diseases. The study published in the current edition of the East African Medical Journal revealed the students may have infected each other with the MRSA bacteria, commonly known as Staph. Kenyatta University microbiologist Osborn Khasabuli, who led the study, said they recruited a total of 237 healthy students residing within the unnamed university's halls of residence. The researchers are now calling for urgent measures to control the MRSA. “The study revealed the presence of MRSA strains, which are also multi-drug resistant, circulating among a healthy student population in a university setting within Central Kenya,” Khasabuli said after analysing the samples at the Kenya Medical Research Institute laboratories. “Analysis of genetic relations showed evidence of strain sharing among students.” Because MRSA is so antibiotic resistant, it is termed a "superbug" by some investigators. The bacteria are usually found in the human armpit, groin, nose (most frequently), and throat. It can be transmitted by direct contact through skin and body fluids and indirect contact from clothes, towels, and beddings to uninfected people. “These results indicate the existence of potential risk factors, thus necessitating a comprehensive surveillance on MRSA and studies on control measures to help in curbing the spread of MRSA strains,” the researchers said. The study is part of the growing evidence of antibiotic resistance in Kenya where many common infections are becoming difficult to treat. This week, the World Health Organisation reported bacteria that cause diarrhoea and urinary tract infections, pneumonia and meningitis were becoming resistant to drugs. The WHO's Global Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance System Report sampled antibiotic resistance among 500,000 people from 22 countries. Kenya did not submit data for the report, but some of these drug resistant bacteria have been reported in Kenya due to over-use of drugs. WHO said among the countries sampled, resistance to penicillin – the medicine used for decades worldwide to treat pneumonia – ranged from zero to 51 per cent. “Some of the world’s most common and potentially most dangerous infections are proving drug-resistant,” says Dr Marc Sprenger, director of WHO’s Antimicrobial Resistance Secretariat. “And most worrying of all, pathogens don’t respect national borders. That’s why WHO is encouraging all countries to set up good surveillance systems for detecting drug resistance that can provide data to this global system.” Kenya has developed and approved the National Policy and Action Plan on antimicrobial resistance and is building its national surveillance system. Outgoing Health CS Cleopa Mailu said, “Kenya is no exception to this threat, with increasing rates of antimicrobial resistance among infections contributing the most to human disease nationally, being reported in our hospitals and communities.”