Two hundred and sixty eight cases are still pending in court after 2017 general elections were conducted. In a poll status as at January 12, released by IEBC on Tuesday, 114 cases have been withdrawn or dismissed and five petitions which have been allowed. According to the notice, there are 24 petitions for the governor seat with 10 of them being dismissed or withdrawn. One petition has been allowed and 24 cases are still pending in the courts. This was after the High Court struck out the petition against Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's election for want of prosecution. Justice Msagha Mbogholi directed the two petitioners to pay Sonko and IEBC a total of Sh5 million as the cost of the suit. More on this: Court dismisses Sonko election case after petitioners 'lose interest' Also read: Petitioner in Sonko poll case fails to show up over ‘threats’ The Wajir governor election was also nullified on grounds that it was not conducted according to the law. Justice Alfred Mabeya said that governor Mohamed Abdi's academic papers were not complete since he doesn't have a genuine degree. Read: Wajir governor Mohamed Abdi's election nullified On senators petitions,15 cases have been filed in the courts with three being dismissed or withdrawn while five are pending in court. Woman representative positions attracted 12 cases in court with seven of them being dismissed or withdrawn. Five are still pending in court. During the elections, Member of parliament seat attracted 98 cases being filed at the Court. 17 of the cases have been withdrawn of dismissed while 81 are still pending. There were 139 cases that were filed for the Members of the county Assembly seat. 51 cases were dismissed, two petitions allowed and 86 cases are still pending in court. There were 88 cases that were filed on Party list.  26 cases were dismissed, two petitions allowed and 60 cases are still pending in court. The courts have up to February to determine the fate of petitions filed across the country challenging results of various elective seats. The window for filing of petitions challenging posts of Governor, Senator, Women Representatives, Members of the National Assembly and MCAs closed last year Sepetember. The law gives any person intending to challenge election results – apart from the presidential results – 28 days from the date of declaration to do so. For presidential candidates, the law allows seven days and a further 14 days within which it must be heard and determined. Read: Courts to clear 116 poll petitions before February  Click here for the latest political news  