International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 is live!  January 1st, 2018, the date touted as ushering in a new era in banking, came and went. With IFRS 9 solidly in place, and most financial institutions gunning toward ensuring compliance, it is worthwhile to take stock and establish ‘what next’, particularly in relation SMEs. Following the capping of interest rates in 2016, and the subsequent cash crunch in 2017, the year was not easy for SMEs. The prolonged political turmoil further exuberated this problem with most SMEs experiencing cash flow problems. On one end, the economic go-slow experienced in 2017 drastically affected sales proceeds. On the other end, financial institutions reaction to interest rate caps largely hampered access to credit with various banks opting to take a hard risk-averse stance following the amendment of the Banking Act. The expectation that perhaps the capping may be lifted left this space in limbo. IFRS 9, designed in the aftermath of the 2007/2008 financial crisis by the International Financial Reporting Board, seeks to ensure that financial institutions prudently recognise and account for financial risks. Particularly, and at the risk of oversimplifying, IFRS 9 seeks to change the manner in which credit risk is recognised by financial institutions. Prior to IFRS 9, financial institutions would recognise and provide for a loan’s risk at the time of default. Under IFRS 9, they are required to recognise this risk during the loan life cycle. Particularly, this risk should be recognised at the onset of the credit offering and monitored during the life of the credit offering. In effect, banks and other financial institutions will now have increased loan provision burden, which in turn may negatively affect their profit and loss statements. Further, due to the requirement to measure the risk at the beginning of the credit life-cycle, financial institutions are expected to require more information from potential debtors so as to build a robust risk profile. Ideally, the cost of credit should in part be determined by the risk profile of the attendant debtor. However, as interest rates are capped in Kenya, financial institutions do not have the flexibility of pricing a loan based solely on the risk profile. As a result, most financial institutions, notably banks, either shy away from providing credit to high-risk debtors or an attempt to recoup their risk, increase the cost of credit through hidden one-off charges at the time of offering the credit. In view of the above, banking sector analysts predict that in the face of interest rate caps and prudent reporting required by IFRS 9, SMEs may, unfortunately, be caught in the middle – with their access to credit woes expected to increase in 2018. The challenge we must address is how to de-risk SMEs or moderate the high-risk perception. - IDB Capital MD