Taps in Mombasa and Kilifi have run dry after Kenya Power disconnected supplies to Barchicho water pump over a Sh40 million debt. The supply was connected after Coast Water Service Board failed to settle the bill at the plant which supplies water to the two counties. Sureya Hersi, the CWSB chairperson, said the region's water service providers, who they sell bulk water to, have an outstanding debt of Sh3 billion. The board receives no funding from the National Treasury hence depends entirely on money from the said WSPs, who they said "are unwilling to pay". Kilifi Water and Sewerage Company Ltd and Mombasa Water Supply and Sanitation Services Company were affected because of their huge balances. Mombasa is yet to settle Sh1.2 billion debt while Klifi's is Sh1 billion. The WSPs in the remaining four counties - Lamu, Kwalu, Tana River and Taita Taveta share dues amounting to Sh1.8billlion. The water board has shut water valves at Marere, Mzima and Tiwi boreholes pumping
stations to force Mombasa and Kilifi to clear their arrears. Hersi said Kenya Power bills the board about Sh40 million monthly in costs of electricity adding that they have more problems paying the same since devolution. "If
the counties have budgets for water, why are they not paying their
bills? Either the money is being diverted for other things or the counties
just don't want to pay," she said. "The WSPs have neither been paying their bulk water bills in full nor have they been paying their lease fees," CWSB CEO Jacob Torutt said. Torrut said the six counties undertook to pay debts on behalf of their respective water providers, a promise none of them has honoured. The two spoke at the board's offices in Mombasa on Saturday. Last year, the board reduced its water tariffs by Sh5 to Sh20 per cubic meters while water providers on the other-hand increased charges by Sh30 to Sh100 per cubic metre. Despite the move that guaranteed an increase in revenue, the said providers still have humongous debts. Hersi, without giving evidence, said cartels have taken over water operations in the counties. Barchicho supplies 80 million litres of water to Mombasa and Kilifi per day. The former gets 40 million litres while Kilifi and Malindi receive 20 million litres each. Marere supplies 50 million litres, with Mombasa and Kilifi getting equal volumes; Mzima injects 40 million litres of which Mombasa receives 10 million. Tiwi boreholes supplies five million litres of water to Mombasa per day. Click here for the latest political stories