Political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has claimed that President Uhuru Kenyatta tricked former DPP Keriako Tobiko into a Cabinet Secretary appointment. Uhuru appointed Tobiko, ex-Senator John Munyes and ex-Marsabit governor Ukur Yattani to the Cabinet. The three were nominated to posts which are yet to be revealed and will be subject to vetting and approval by Parliament.   Read: Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko and Ukur Yatani But Ngunyi, who is a great critic of the Opposition, said what Uhuru did not do during the appointment was more important. "What Uhuru did not do as he appointed Cabinet is more important than what he did. He dissolved the Cabinet without saying it. Then he tricked Tobiko. Very clever," he said via twitter on Friday night. His post received mixed reactions from Kenyans who alleged that Tobiko delayed prosecutions. "Tobiko was a stumbling block in prosecutions. Wait and see how people will be prosecuted," @Charles50566568 said. @solo_ambuku said: "Indeed, Tobiko enjoys security of tenure, only way to make him walk the plank was to dangle the Cabinet carrot and swoosh, he's gone, only to be rejected by National Assembly."  Also read: Cabinet Secretaries not named in Friday changes to remain in office - State House "I think Tobiko was tricked long ago b4 the elections...... this is just the incentive [sic]," @sahmie92 said. @mungaikirathi said: "Well said Tobiko is backed I don't think parliament will approve of him. Kudos @UKenyatta for being unpredictable." "Tobiko has been anti-jubilee all along...tricked into leaving a job with security of tenure into one he can be fired any second or moreover not even assured during vetting. A+ for Uhuru," @bryan_fyas said. @jeremiah_ominde said: "With Tobiko out as DPP!.... Kenyans can now expect to see ruthless prosecutions especially on hectic politicians." "Tobiko destroyed innocent lives in any corruption cases. Useful idiot a professional duped to say good things about bad regimes. Go away," @wilson_shollei said. @toocate said: "You never disappoint in your analysis....I had been trying to crack the code of Tobiko and you have helped me." Another user claimed that the president was biased in the appointments which followed reorganisation of his administration for the second term in office. "Now you're clapping for him for work well done? he was just appointing his tribesmen and sidekicks in tenderpreneur business," @paulvictordesmo said. During his address, Uhuru said he had submitted the names of the nominees to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for vetting. There was no woman named in the whole list of appointments, prompting the National Gender and Equality Commission to warn it would take action to ensure that women, people with disabilities, the youth and those from marginalised communities are appointed.  According to Article 152 (2) of the Constitution, the President nominates and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appoints Cabinet Secretaries. Read: Uhuru drops 13 Cabinet Secretaries,fires cops Click here for the latest political news   