Witeithie
estate in Juja, Kiambu county, is well known to be a safe haven for ruthless
gangsters, with the crime rate reaching an all-time high. Gaza, the most
notorious gang from Kayole in Nairobi county, is feared to have relocated to
Witeithie, where it is terrorising residents. Resident Paul Njuguna, who has lived for 30 years in the estate,
said the land was once owned by Greeks. It was given back to the community, subdivided
into many portions and sold. “For along time, Witeithie was underdeveloped. It was seen as a
slum until recently, when commercial buildings were put up, housing people who
earn Sh200 per day or less,” Njuguna said. Njuguna recalls that the estate started being hit by crime 15
years ago, saying an increase in people moving to the area contributed to the
problem. No one would want to know who was their neighbour and what one does. “It was every man for himself, as all communities reside here. And
that is when crime started in the area, as there was no law and order,” Njuguna
said. Adiel Nyange, the Kiambu police county commander, says that since
he took charged, they have gunned down some of the notorious gangsters from the
dreaded Gaza gang. “We have made progress in getting some of the gang members, but it
is difficult, as the residents do not share information with us,” says Nyange. He said officers patrol daily and will get the rest of the gang,
which is said to be hiding in the area.  JOBLESS YOUTHS The estate has an estimated population of over 40,000 people, 75
per cent of them youths. It has no public utilities like health centres,
playgrounds, social halls and public nursery schools. Alcoholism and bhang
smoking top the social ills. The youth unemployment rate in Kenya is still at staggering levels,
despite government and private sector intervention. The UN Development
Programme in a survey reported that four in every 10 Kenyan youths of working
age are unemployed, making it the worst in the region. Another recently
concluded survey conducted in March 2017 showed that 39.1 per cent of the
Kenyan population of working age do not have jobs. When youths are idle, they plunge into crime and other social vices,
something that is not healthy for the community and the economy. Njuguna said it is the everyday harsh situation and lack of
employment and opportunities that leads the youth to indulge in alcoholism and
drug taking, as no one bothers to empower them. “You will find many young children indulging in teenage sex. No
one really bothers with the youths here. Everybody fends for themselves,” Njuguna
said.  TALENT SEARCH Youthful area MCA Julius Macharia, alias Taki, is trying to change
the estate through a talent search. He wants to transform the area into a
talent hub. “I know a lot of youths
here. We have come from far and I know they have potential. They just need someone
to hold their hands and show them they can do better for themselves, the
society and the country,” Macharia said. He set up a programme called ‘Chomoa Talanta Mtaani’, which looks
for talents in youths and afterwards finds sponsorship to nurture them. The
project has given many youths a platform to express themselves. “We want to show that Witeithie is not what it is perceived to be,
because we have talent. It is a hotbed of talent, and I’m glad that the youths
have accepted that call to showcase their talents,” Macharia said. The MCA was concerned his ward has no public utilities, whereas
there are many bars and wines and spirits outlets. He will push for legislation
to change the ways of the ward. “There are 65 licensed bars and there are 210 more operating
illegally without licences. I will not allow this. We have a law to build a
health centre, nursery school playground and any other public utility required,”
Macharia said. The MCA is also seeking to use the Sh30 million Ward Development Fund,
which is expected to be released in the next financial year, to build a
recording studio and radio station to employ the youth. “The old will not be left
out since the county government, led by Governor Ferdinand Waititu, has
programmes that will cater for their needs and also empower them economically,”
Macharia said.  HIDDEN TALENTS Rapper Chiwawa, real name Ken Mwai, also supports talented youths
in the grassroots. He said through his presence on the ground, the youths feel
appreciated and care to strive for more. “During our times when we were rising to be recognised, no one was
helping us or caring to see or hear what we got, but now I can go to the
grassroots and encourage the youths to come out. We have talent that many have
not seen and that needs a platform,” he said. Chiwawa urged more leaders to support talents, and not for
political gain but a sincere need to help out the youths. “You never know who is watching, and we need leaders who can give
the youths that platform. At the moment they are using social media to present
what they got and it is not enough. Many who have talents may not know how the
social media works to their advantage, and their talents can be stolen or copy-pasted,”
Chiwawa said. Chiwawa believes in the grassroots there is best of everything, as
there are dancers, rappers, poets, acrobats, models and many others, whose
talents are untapped and can be used to do good. “If only in every village there would be a talent search, you will
realise how much our youths have potential, and this is what we need to tap
before it goes to waste,” Chiwawa said. Artist Daniel Kinyanjui said he has been painting and selling his work
to the locals for over 10 years, and he has never gotten a platform where he
can showcase his talent. “This is a good and encouraging opportunity for us who have
talents, as now people have seen what I can do. Most think that I buy the
paintings and come to sell them,” he said. Kinyanjui said he sells his paintings for Sh1,000-Sh2,000, which
he uses to fend for his family. His challenges include not selling the
paintings for a week. “Every job has its up and downs, and I can go for long without
selling my work. Also, most do not appreciate local talents and want to buy
from the shops, whose paintings are processed,” Kinyanjui said. Kinyanjui hopes that someday, he will catch the eye of someone who
will appreciate his talent, as he believes he can do more, let alone paint on
board, but can also do interior designing with painting on wall.  CAUSE FOR OPTIMISM Poet Eric Munene, alias Manucho, hopes to inspire the youth. His
messages aim to promote peace and motivate the youths. “I want to use my talent to reach out to my brothers and sisters
to come out and grab the opportunities that will help their lives be better,
and also to tell them there is no life in crime or alcoholism and drug taking,”
he said. Youth for Change champion Stella Kiruku tries to help the youth
through social media. “We are reaching out to our fellow youths through social media
platforms, where one can start a clean hustle of uploading talents so they can
empower themselves financially,” she said. Many youths are optimistic that their talents will be noticed and
want to make a turnaround in their lives. Talent development in Kenya has been hampered by inadequate access
to quality training facilities and equipment. National and county governments
don’t adequately fund utilities that support and showcase talents. So Witeithie’s
move is a step in the right direction.