Three tourist vans were netted in a crackdown launched by the National Transport and Safety Authority on Saturday along Nyeri–Karatina highway in Nyeri. The drivers of the vans were arrested for bring drunk, Jackson Mutua, NTSA regional manager, said yesterday. “We were forced to make alternative travel arrangements for international tourists who were on board the vans,” Mutua said. He said two other tourist vehicles, which had earlier been impounded, were later released and tourists continued with their journey,” he said. The drunk drivers failed a breathalyser test. Mutua said they will be taken to court. The authority mounted an impromptu crackdown at Hohwe Dam, few kilometres to Karatina town in a new operation exercise dubbed ‘Fika Salama.’ “We are watching a matatu sacco known to have drunk drivers, we will not spare them. We need to end needless loss of lives as a result of road accidents,” he said The NTSA also netted speeding cars and impounded Public Service Vehicles which lacked valid licences and stickers. The agency is working with the Ethics and Anti- Corruption Commission to fight road carnage and ensure those flouting traffic rules are charged. Early last month, police officers who were absorbed into National Transport and Safety Authority, complained of unpaid allowances. They said their perks had dropped from Sh35,000 to Sh14,000 that most of them are currently paid. “We need a proper payment structure, even it means all of us get paid Sh10,000. The variations, together with a ‘shamble contract’, is discouraging,” an officer who sought anonymity for fear of reprisals said. More than 100 police were absorbed into the transport sector. Some of them accused their seniors of intimidation and harassment. “We work round-the-clock running after drunk divers in dangerous zones, but get nothing in return.  But NTSA director general Francis Meja dismissed claims of disparities in allowances.  Meja said he has not received any complaint from any of the officers attached to the regulatory body.  He added that cops have and know the right procedures to follow in the event they have grievances in line with their work.  