Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has attributed the acute water shortage in the county to poor engineering and substandard materials in the Sh2.1 billion project He on Wednesday said the Ndanu Water Project was shoddily done by the contracted engineers. He said virtually all pipes that distribute water from the reservoir to taps are worn out, barely one year after they were installed. The governor also accused the Lake Victoria South Water Services Board management of allowing substandard work. The project was co-financed by the Kenyan government and the African Development Bank. It started in 2015 and was completed last year. The aim was to end the perennial water shortage in Siaya county. “The national government and the African Development Bank made a noble decision in setting up the Ndanu Water Project, but the water management allowed faulty pipes to be used, making access to clean drinking water a mirage,” Rasanga said. Rasanga urged county MPs to ensure the Water ministry “punishes the rogue engineers” and forces them to repair the system. BOARD REJECTS CLAIMS “Since commissioning of the water project by Water CS Eugene Wamalwa in 2016, at least 16 pipes have burst, denying more than 5,000 Siaya people access to clean and safe drinking water,” the governor said. His claims were dismissed by Lake Victoria South Water Services Board CEO Petronilla Ogutu. She had led a delegation of water officials to the office of Deputy Governor James Okumbe to discuss the chronic shortages.Ogutu said the pipes are not faulty. Rasanga also asked the MPs to initiate water projects in their constituencies to ensure more than 800,000 residents have access to clean and safe drinking water. “It will be a noble gesture if MPs initiated water projects in their constituencies and help us contain constant waterborne diseases,” Rasanga said. That would help about 190,000 people, he said. The governor praised Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi for starting talks with the African Development Bank that led to the Sh800 million Nzoia–Madungu–Ugunja water project. Earlier, Wandayi hinted the water project will be tapped from River Nzoia and pumped to Ugunja and Madungu reservoirs before it is distributed to residents of Ugunja cubcounty. “Upon completion, Ugunja residents will no longer complain of water shortage,” Wandayi said. 