Kenya Police “Chafua Chafua” have been stripped off the National Boxing League title after being found guilty of match fixing. Consequently, the league title has been officially awarded to Kenya Defense Forces (KDF) on 122 points against Police’s 120. Making the announcement yesterday, Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) chairman John Kameta said the contentious match pitting Kaloleni’s Dennis Muthama’s lose to Maurice Ochieng’ was revoked paving way for KDF’s historic win. “The match was awarded to Ochieng based on a ‘biased computerised setting’ and as such we are hereby glad to announce Muthama’s victory and indeed KDF as the new champions,” said Kameta. What this means is that Police dipped to second position and Kenya Prisons retained third spot still on 37points. Kameta said BAK will from now henceforth advocate for a clean sport and warned against cheating in the amateur sport of boxing. “Any perpetrators of the vice will be dealt with accordingly,” he said, adding: “The decision was generated as per AIBA Competitions rules and collectively made by the Executive Committee of BAK. Kameta said they also considered the recent national trials at Kaloleni, where KDF piped Police 20-18. “The verdict was to indeed ascertain who won the match in Mombasa and that was actually confirmed by our match referees and judges. Secondly, we will not reprimand anyone until the verdict from AIBA is made and that is what we are waiting for. AIBA are still investigating the matter and once the verdict on computer tempering is out, we shall make an informed and drastic decision. Police coach George ‘Foreman’ Onyango couldn’t be reached for comment while Police assistant coach John Waweru declined to comment on the issue. “I will call you in due course,” said Waweru when prodded to explain the match-fixing fiasco by Police. Kameta said the league decision towards KDF victory is final based on the investigations and referees and judges report. “So Muthama wins and Ochieng’ is the loser,” he said. “It’s a good thing to bring honesty and sanity into the sport as cheating goes against AIBA ethics. What I want to see next is stern action against the perpetrators of match-fixing,” said Nairobi coach Musa Benjamin. “What happened in Mombasa was an infamous occurrence which sets a very bad precedence. It actually brought the sport into disrepute and I am glad BAK have taken action against Police. Let them also pin-point and punish those who masterminded the vice.” Meanwhile, Kameta announced that the naming of the final Gold Coast-bound Commonwealth Games team of seven boxers will be delayed to avoid complacency among boxers. “All the 10 men’s boxers will proceed to camp and we shall name the final team just before the boxers leave to Gold Coast,” Kameta added. The trials in Kaloleni served as the last leg of the league.