The High Court in Eldoret will on February 28th rule on the petition challenging the election of Trans Nzoia Senator Mike Mbito of jubilee. Justice George Kimondo made the directive after competition of the hearing from all sides in the petition filed by former Senator Henry Ole Ndiema of Ford Kenya. Lawyer Paul Momanyi representing the petitioner said a recount ordered by the court had revealed glaring irregularities during the August 28th elections. The recount in 11 polling stations led to the margin between Mbito and Ndiema to reduce by 351 votes. “We are very hopeful that as per the results of the recount and the other evidence we have table, the petition stands a chance to succeed”, said Momanyi. In his petition papers Ndiema argued that the August 8th polls were riddled with irregularities and illegalities that interfered with the will of voters in the region. He demanded a scrutiny of elections material used on voting day. Ndiema got 71,471 votes against 70, 846 votes. The two along with eight others vied for the seat. The former senator sued the IEBC, the returning officer in Trans Nzoia and Mbito. He claimed that the senatorial elections in the county were so badly conducted, administered and managed by the IEBC and its returning officer and failed to comply with the constitution and the Elections Act. “The senatorial elections were marred with irregularities in a way that I was denied my victory”, says Ndiema in his affidavits filed in court. He accuses the returning officer of failing to allow him to appoint his own agents as part of a scheme to deny him victory. He claims that the nature and extend of the irregularities significantly affected the results to the extent that the IEBC and its returning officer could not accurately and verifiably determine what results each of the candidates got. The IEBC and Senator Mbito however filed responses arguing that the polls were free and fair and that there were no irregularities that affected the final outcome that was the will of the people of Trans Nzoia. On February 27th the court will rule on the petition challenging the election of Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo. The petition filed by a voter Sammy Kemboi. Kemboi has claimed that the elections were marked by massive irregularities and rigging and that Kangogo did not win fairly. 