IS the National Transport and Safety Authority using different vehicles to nab drivers along major highways? It’s whispered that the vehicles have tinted windows and are fitted with cameras and sirens. There are claims the authority has hired a spy company to do the work for them. Some opinion leaders were yesterday heard protesting that while NTSA may have the best intentions, the methods they are using could be illegal. They argued the agency should do more supervision on highways to reduce road carnage, including ensuring roads are marked and clear speed limit signs by the responsible agencies. A powerful politician from Rift Valley opposed to Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential candidature is said to be behind the recent statements by leaders from Central Kenya that their support for the DP is not automatic or guaranteed. The leader, who is a fierce critic of the DP, Corridors has learnt, is on a mission to plant a narrative using his cronies that Mt Kenya owes the DP nothing regarding the 2022 election. Our mole told Corridors there is a good budget ahead to drive the narrative. WHAT prompted Ford Kenya deputy party leader Richard Onyonka to recognize and declare his support for Uhuru Kenyatta as the duly elected President of Kenya? Ford Kenya, which is led by NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula, has been insisting that Raila Odinga was elected President in the August 8 polls. Last weekend, Weta publicly joined other NASA affiliate parties in pushing for his (Raila) swearing-in slated for January 30. JUST when social media users had started to raise questions on who owns hundreds of cars leased to the NTSA, President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the agency off the roads. The President said the NTSA should give way to Traffic police officers to manage the roads. Some Kenyans praised the decision, pointing out that the country will save millions meant for leasing the cars. They alleged that the vehicles are owned by a certain politician, without giving any evidence. And, similarly without evidence, concluded that the President was fighting the politician. Well, social media is that place where many are declared dead even when they are alive. Even the drunk praised the President for his good gesture. DURING President Mwai Kibaki’s era, police trucks carrying anti-riot police would be stationed next to Jeevanjee Gardens and the Hilton Hotel in Nairobi on a day civil society and opposition planned protests. However, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime deploys Kenya Prisons reinforcements, who lock horns with protesters. When police activities are finally audited, the impact of the prison guards on the streets will be measured.          