The drive from Nairobi to Mbita took us seven hours (with a stop for lunch in Narok), after which we arranged for a 45-minute minute boat ride with a local fisherman to the island. You could also fly in to Kabunde Airstrip in Homa Bay county then do some sightseeing first and have the resort arrange for pick-up. To get to Takawiri by public transport, take a ferry or water bus from Mbita to Mfangano Island, which has four scheduled departures during the day.  Things to do Lake Victoria, also referred to as Nam Lolwe, is home to about 19 islands, but Takawiri is adjacent to Mfangano. We sailed past the area where the locals live, and the homes spotted were largely similar in structure and size, made of sturdy iron sheet and located right by the water. The side upon which the resort sits could, however, well be an idyllic location along the coast, with a picture-perfect white sandy beach, tall palm trees billowing in the wind and the clearest of fresh blue water. This would be a great spot to just go off-grid and idle in, but for action seekers, there is an array of activities available. Note that if you just want to take a day trip or pop in for lunch, you have to call beforehand to make a reservation since this is a private property, and you will likely pay a fee of about Sh500 just to dock there. There is no swimming pool but the lake water is so fresh, you can swim with your eyes open underwater. For birdwatchers, the lake attracts various species of wetland birds, such as fish eagles, white egrets, Egyptian geese, marsh harriers and the long-tailed cormorants. Take a boat and head out with a knowledgeable guide (ask for Dan, who comes highly recommended) for viewing, or simply laze along the beach for sundowners and watch them coming home to roost against the backdrop of a vibrant orange setting sun. For sport fishing enthusiasts keen on catching their dinner, fish for Nile Perch, catfish or tilapia you can bring your own lures and equipment and set off for the lake. You can try watersports like windsurfing, paddle boarding and snorkeling, or perhaps make like you are in Lamu Island and head out on a sunset sail with a couple of drinks and snacks aboard. Accommodation in the cottages costs Sh12,000 per person on full board, and while the resort can sleep about 10, the number can go up to 18 if you don’t mind sharing. For a cheaper option, bring your own camping gear. The menu is largely Kenyan, Indian and Continental, with the owner doubling as a chef.  Contact: +254-057-2024804. Book in advance.  Star Rating: 4/5