The 11th World Trade Organization ministerial conference held in December, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, attended by 4,000 delegates, ended in a stalemate, therefore no key multi-lateral outcomes. This raised questions about the 23 year-old trade body’s ability to govern increasingly disputed global trade. Ministers failed to agree on major trade reforms. This was because the Ministers were unable to bridge the gap left by the negotiators in Geneva on all the issues under negotiations. The results of a WTO Ministerial Conference are normally issued in a Ministerial Declarations or a Chairs Summary. The Conference held at least once every two years was last held in Nairobi in December, 2015. The objective of the conference was to take decisions on all WTO work including on the current ongoing negotiations on various issues. One of the positive elements in the Nairobi package is the decision to eliminate export subsidies in agriculture, decision on the implementation of the services waiver and the decision on market access for some cotton products. A Ministerial Declaration is preferred since it is legally binding as opposed to a chair's summary which is not binding and is normally issued by the chair of the conference under personal responsibility. Trade ministers did not also agree even on relatively minor proposals on e-commerce and fishing subsidy. The meeting laid bare the deficiencies of the WTO negotiating system, which requires unanimity among all 164 member countries. The divergence among the membership could not be bridged due to the dynamics that have taken place in international trade since the beginning of the Doha round of trade negotiations in December, 2001. The international trade dynamics and changes in the global political economy have made some members to review their positions on many issues under the negotiations making it difficult to advance the negotiations under the initial architecture earlier agreed upon. Some members especially those from developed economies feel that the current negotiations under the architecture agreed in Doha no longer serve their interests while the developing and least developed country members insist that the promises made to them in Doha must be addressed to remove the current imbalance and distortions in international trade which favour the developed countries.  The Ministers at Buenos Aires were disappointed that no results were obtained on the substantive issues under the negotiations in agriculture, Non-Agricultural Market Access Services, Trade Related aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS), Development, Trade and Environment and WTO Rules. Under the public stock holding of food for food security purposes, there was a mandate to conclude a permanent solution by the 11th Ministerial Conference. This was not possible. In spite of the disappointment, ministers committed to move forward and undertake negotiations on all the outstanding issues including advancing work on the three pillars of Agriculture (Domestic Support, Market Access and Export Competition) as well as Non-agricultural Market Access, Services, Development, TRIPS, WTO Rules, and Trade and Environment. Some 70 member countries, including the USA, European Union, Japan and Brazil pledged to forge ahead with an effort to negotiate rules on electronic commerce after a broader deal among the full membership failed. Absent from the group were China, India, Vietnam and Indonesia. The failure to reach any major deals meant that negotiations on the same topics will continue into 2018, with no deadline and no heavyweight ministerial momentum to get agreement. Important issues such as food security will not be prioritized in the work of the WTO. All is not lost however as countries still have the WTO's current agreements, its structures of cooperation, and its invaluable dispute settlement system.  Given little progress being made at the multilateral trade engagements, Kenya will put more focus on deepening regional integration at EAC, COMESA, Tripartite Free Trade Area bringing together EAC, COMESA and SADC and Continental Free Trade Area. The CFTA, for instance, will create single market with the largest country membership in the world, within the fastest-growing region both in terms of population and consumption. Dr. Chris Kiptoo, CBS, Is Principal Secretary, State Department for Trade, and chairperson National Trade Negotiation Council & National Trade Facilitation Committee       