NASA and Jubilee troops are taking hardline positions ahead of the January 30 planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the people’s President and deputy, respectively. While Raila and his NASA brigade yesterday vowed there was no stopping the event until they “reach Canaan”, Jubilee diehards dared them to go ahead with the function on pain of dire consequences. Taking no chances, Jubilee further plans to lock the NASA team out of Uhuru Park and other key public venues in Nairobi, come January 30. Read more : Dialogue before January 30 only way to stop Raila oath, NASA leaders tell Uhuru Addressing the Coast People’s Assembly yesterday, which resolved to push for the swearing-in, Raila said there is no turning back. Speaking in Uhuru Gardens, and later Changamwe in Mombasa county, Raila said Kenya is under authoritarian rule because President Uhuru Kenyatta is openly violating the Constitution and cited the recent appointment of three top police chiefs. This he said was aimed at constituting a Jubilee friendly police force. He said such blatant abuse of power will end once he lifts the Bible during the swearing-in. “Those in power have been opposed to the 2010 constitution, that’s why they see no crime in violating it,” Raila said. “Kenya will reject the dictatorship. The journey to Canaan is on," Raila added at an event that was also attended by Kalonzo, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and a host of MPs. Speaking in Gatanga, Murang’a, Jubilee Vice chairman David Murathe warned Raila and Kalonzo to be ready for the consequences if they proceed with the plans for the swearing-in. The former Gatanga MP, who is a close ally of President Uhuru’s, reminded Raila that treason is punishable by hanging and that the opposition will face the full force of the law. “If Raila is sworn in on January 30, we will find him and jail him. Kenya already has a President who was legally elected and sworn in,” he added. Murathe also wondered who will swear in Raila and Kalonzo and what the opposition plans to do after commiting the offence. At the Mombasa meeting ii was decreed that Coast residents will continue to participate in People’s Assembly activities until democracy is restored. Kalonzo said Kenyans can’t bear another term under Uhuru. “Punda amechoka [the donkey is tired]. I’m also weary and Raila, too, is seriously tired. Don’t be fearful this country is ours,” he said. Kalonzo said Kenya is speedily headed to a conflict, accusing Uhuru and Ruto of refusing to acknowledge the stalemate, adding that the Jubilee government is not beneficial to the people and NASA will seek to form their own legitimate state. “Electoral justice is very crucial. A valid and lawful August 8 vote was disallowed,” he said. Speaking separately to the Star on the phone, Nyando MP Jared Okelo and Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga said “all systems are set for the swearing-in”. Okelo said, “As the NASA family we have finalised plans for the swearing-in ceremony. We gave dialogue a chance to decipher matters of the electoral justice system, but the proponents of impunity squandered the rarest opportunity.” He said NASA supporters countrywide are currently working on their transport logistics for the swearing-in event. “Some busybodies are claiming prior booking of Uhuru Park for some clandestine activities on the same day. We shall see who carries the day, the few vagabonds or the critical mass.” Senate Deputy Speaker Kindiki Kithure warned the opposition leaders that they will face the consequences should they purport to declare themselves President and Deputy President. “If it is a meeting they want to have, they can go on so long as they follow the procedure of holding public meetings. The matter of swearing-in the President of the Republic of Kenya was concluded on November 28, 2017, in accordance with the Constitution and the law on transition,” he said. Read : Ex-Nigerian President Obasanjo arrives for Uhuru-Raila ‘dialogue’ He said it is up to NASA to explain to its followers what they want to do because the issue of elections cannot be reopened until 2022. “Methinks NASA will abandon this process because it is likely to bring disorder, violence, loss of lives and destruction of property, as we have seen in the past,” he said. He said the government would focus on its development agenda and ignore such sideshows. “If we engage them it will become a dialogue. Let them have a monologue but know that anybody who contravenes the law will face the consequences,” he warned. The Star has established that Jubilee has crafted several ways to paralyze the oath-taking ceremony while the opposition on the other hand has kept the state guessing on the venue of the event. However, an indication that the event will be held in Nairobi is NASA's plan to hold its last People’s Assembly in Nairobi. Security sources have have told the Star in confidence that there are plans to lock out NASA out various public facilities on that day. Nairobi County, which is under jubilee’s Governor Mike Sonko, will be prevailed upon not to issue a permit to NASA to hold a meeting at Uhuru Park. The Nairobi Business Community members are also said to be planning to secure the venue for an unspecified function on the same day. Other venues that can hold such large functions in Nairobi include the Nyayo Stadium, which is currently closed for renovation, the Kasarani Stadium and the historic Kamukunji Grounds. Other venues are the Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi and Kibera, but these would not give the function the significance and attention NASA wants to draw as it would relegate the swearing-in to a small affair. Before the two aborted swearing-in events that were to take place on November 28 to coincide with the second and final inauguration of Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto and on December 12, Jamhuri Day last year, Raila was to take his oath in Jacaranda Grounds and in Mombasa county, respectively. Attempts to get a comment from City Hall were unsuccessful as both the Acting CEC for Environment Mohamed Dagane and County Secretary Leboo ole Morintat did not answer calls. Another strategy in the works by Jubilee think-tanks is to have the President name his full Cabinet on either Monday or that Tuesday, to deflect both local and international attention from NASA’s activtivities. But the team organising the swearing-in ceremony laughed off any plans by the State to interfere with their plans, saying Raila and Kalonzo must take the oath on Tuesday. Also read : UN sent Obasanjo to stop Raila oath, quell political tension People's Assembly organising committee head of Secretariat Noah Akala said the event will be successful and will be well attended. “The People’s Assembly will proceed on January 30 as planned. We will not be intimidated by Mungiki operating under the guise of the Nairobi Business Community,” said Akala on the phone. Akala however did not divulge details of which site NASA has secured, saying it is too early to give away such finer details. “If we do that now we simply will be setting the stage for violent confrontation with those rogue people and we know the police will do nothing to defend us,” added Akala. But Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe warned that the State will not tolerate any unconstitutional activities, saying anyone violating the Constitution will be dealt with according to the law. “The State is ready to deal with any form or acts of unconstitutionalism. Kenyans should not panic as the government is in place to provide security for all," he told the Star. Click here for the latest political news 