Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga is poised for another battle with the county assembly after he retained five CEC nominees rejected by the vetting committee. Rasanga made changes in his new list, replacing four nominees from the rejected nine. The assembly had said the first team did not satisfy integrity requirements of the County Government Act. Rasanga had pledged to defy the MCAs and present the same names but he finally obliged — albeit partially. New nominees The four new nominees are Charles Ogada, Bernard Mboha, Elizabeth Odhiambo and Joseph Warega. He proposed Ogada for Agriculture, Mboha for Public Works and Roads, Odhiambo for Tourism docket, Warega for Treasury. Rasanga’s nominees will be vetted by the assembly’s Appointments Committee from January 22. Those retained from the initial list are Adrian Ouma for Physical Planning, Goerge Misore for Water and Irrigation, Dorothy Owino for Health, Mary Olute for Education and Elizabeth Odhiambo for Enterprise and Energy.  civil society up in arms Civil society representatives have dismissed the list, saying some nominees have integrity issues and must not be approved. Led by Chris Owalla, the members yesterday said Warega — the nominee to head the Treasury department — should not hold public office before he is cleared of wrongdoing. Nairobi cemetery saga Warega declined to comment yesterday. He dismissed all claims of wrongdoing, calling them fiction and saying critics are engaged in a witch-hunt. The civil society members told reporters in Siaya town that Warega was adversely mentioned in the Nairobi cemetery saga in which more than Sh350 million public funds were lost. It involved purchase of 75 acres for a Nairobi cemetery. The rocky land was unusable. The former national anti-corruption agency, KACC, said it had unearthed a conspiracy, which included falsification of valuation reports and forgery of official documents. This created an uproar. President Mwai Kibaki suspended one PS and 12 senior officials over the purchase. “Warega was right in the middle of the Nairobi cemetery saga, working as the principal accountant in the old Ministry of Local Authority. He has never been cleared by any relevant authority,” Owalla said. He said Warega instructed the chief accountant to release Sh289 million without giving reasons. Owalla urged Siaya residents not to entrust anyone adversely involved in the cemetery saga with a county post. He said the move would be “suicidal”. Warege is currently the director of the Finance department in Siaya county and has served in the position since he left his previous job. hiring questioned The civil society members also questioned how Warega exited his previous job and how he was recruited into his current position. He should have been cleared first before assuming any public office, they said. “If the assembly allows the likes of Warega into the cabinet, then their role as a watchdog body is lost and everyone should rest assured that Siaya will lag behind in development,” Owalla said. He said, however, that as civil society, they are not fighting anyone individually, but simply protecting public resources. “We can’t allow such issues to be swept under the carpet,” Owalla said. 