Kenyan boxers’ poor run continued as they crashed out of the ongoing India Open International Championship. Heavyweight Elly Ajowi crashed out after losing 5-0 to homeboy Sanjeet while lightweight boxer Nicholas Okoth also lost 5-0 to Wongsuvan Somchay of Thailand at the quarter final stage. Middleweight Edwin Okongo lost to Vanhlimpuia of India by unanimous decision in a match played at the Thyagraj Stadium. Ajowi, who is preparing for the Commonwealth Games set for April in Australia, was expected to put up a good show, but the contest turned into a one-sided affair with the Indian cornering him twice with a flurry of punches in the first round. The gap between the two boxers was obvious as the match progressed. Ajowi’s punches hardly landed on Sanjeet, who was technically far superior. In the women’s contests, Christine Ongare was no match for India’s versatile Sarjubala Devi in the 51kg. The Indian won 5-0 to advance to the next round. In the semis, Sanjeet will face compatriot Naman Tanwar who defeated Hussein Eishaish of Jordan in another quarter-final match. With Sumit Sangwan also entering the last-four stage after defeating compatriot Virender Kumar with the home team now assured of at least three medals. India’s Shiva Thapa also advanced into the quarters in the 60kg preliminary round after beating Bhutan’s Dorji Wangdi 5-0. Thapa said: “The opening bout was sort of a warm-up. There are good boxers in the fray. The situation will be different in the next round.” However, it wasn’t easy for Manish Kaushik, who overcame Cuba’s Armmando Martinez Rabi 3-2 in a 60kg quarter-final bout. India’s world youth champion Sachin Siwach wasn’t lucky in the 49kg category as he lost to Thani Narinram 3-2. The Spicejet India Open got underway in New Delhi on Sunday, with over 223 boxers from 22 different countries eyeing the $100,000 prize money, the highest ever to be offered in the history of the event. India is aiming to make their presence felt after fielding close to 80 boxers made up of four teams in the men’s and five in the women’s categories. Click here for the latest political stories