The Mandera government will soon employ teachers in different
schools spread across the county to improve on the  performance. Speaking to participants
during the opening of the two-day Early Childhood Development Education
teachers’ training course, Deputy Governor Mohamed
Arai said plans are underway to recruit the teachers. He said that even the though
education was not fully devolved, "the county feels obliged to compliment the
national government’s efforts in ensuring the county’s standards of
education improve". Many teachers, who were not locals, fled
the region at the height of terror attacks in 2015-2016, which left many people dead and scores injured. The insecurity badly affected many sectors, with education
being the hardest hit. The county has not recovered form the effect since then. Mandera,
Wajir and Garissa counties have in the past  posted poor results compared to other regions. This has partly been blamed on lack of teachers and poor
infrastructure. Arai said the on the new curriculum framework aims at building the  teachers'
capacity to secure a firm foundation for the children’s education. “The purpose of basic education curriculum reforms is to provide a
comprehensive conceptualisation of the basic education in pre-primary, primary
and secondary education," Arai said. “Our role as the county government is to fully implement the pre-primary education,
which is a devolved function. This is in addition to supporting other levels of
education in line with our manifesto,” he added. The implementation of the new curriculum was reached after extensive
stakeholder engagement. "This is an outcome of national need assessment study by the Kenya institute
of Curriculum Development, the National Curriculum Reforms Conference and a number of bench
marking studies carried out in a number of countries,” he said.
He said the framework is aligned to the Constitution of Kenya, vision 2030 and
the need to harmonize the curriculum with other East African countries as well
as several other policy documents that express the aspirations of the country.
Ends………….