Are NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka trying to blackmail President Uhuru Kenyatta into dialogue? Corridors heard some pundits arguing that NASA's prolonged swearing threat is like chasing a whirlwind after disappointing his supporters on December 12. Some believe Raila and his co-principals are playing around with their supporters' minds with their continued threats after failing to manage expectations of their ardent followers. Only time will tell whether Raila and Kalonzo will be sworn in soon as hyped. ***** The political vineyard had been rife with speculation of who will or will not make it back to Cabinet. And when it came yesterday, one CS was traumatised when he missed from the list of the first Cabinet members named by President Uhuru Kenyatta. It is said the CS who has been active in the media lately, was planning to retreat with his allies to the Coast this weekend to strategize how to lobby to be retained in the Cabinet before the hammer fell on him. The CS is said to have gone into depression by last evening as calls from his allies went unanswered. ***** Some Kirinyaga residents are asking where their new Senator went after being elected. The residents, for the first time since introduction of multi-party politics in 1992, defied the uniform voting pattern by electing the only independent Senator in the country. Charles Kibiru clinched the seat after beating incumbent Senator Daniel Karaba who on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party. But some residents are worried over Kibiru’s silence and absence in the political scene. Some even complained on social media why he did not post a Happy New Year message for them. “Where is our senator?” they posed to corridors. ***** Is ODM intentionally turning a blind eye to the power fights in Kisumu county or it is a question of double standards? This is the question on the lips of residents of the lakeside city who have accused Raila Odinga's Orange party of mischief. Residents are wondering the motive behind the rush to form a probe team when former governor Jack Ranguma's term was dogged by leadership. The party was silent in the face of worse than has gone down between Deputy governor Mathews Owili and Senator Fred Outa.