Governor Mike Sonko has promised Nairobians 24-hour water supply and cleanliness. Sonko said reviews of the water and sanitation policy and bill will lead to laws that will ensure his promises are fulfilled. "This is in line with my vision of a clean, beautiful and healthy city where water is safe, accessible, affordable and regular. My administration is committed to providing safe water to all the residents of Nairobi," he said in Mombasa on Monday. Sonko noted that supply has never matched the city's population growth, generating an ever-growing deficit. He reported that nearly half of what is distributed is non-revenue water - that which is either not billed through theft or is lost through leaking pipes and poor storage. Sonko said the review of the existing policy will cut losses and see residents, especially the poor in the informal sector, get enough water. "It is also important to note that nearly half a million households in informal settlements have no access to water, or the water available is not sufficient to meet their basic needs. Majority of them do not have enough money to buy water even when supplies exist," he said. The governor also noted that water sold in informal settlements is the most expensive in the county so quick solutions must be found. "Water and sanitation are part of my key development pillars for the county," he said. "In line with United Nations sustainable development goal number six and the Constitution of Kenya article 43, it is my responsibility to ensure every resident of Nairobi receives clean drinking water and adequate sanitation. An audit report released in November last year indicated the Nairobi water company loses Sh3.1 billion as a result of its inefficiency in billing. Auditor General Edward Ouko indicated the company’s liabilities stood at Sh4.2 billion as at the end of June
30, 2016 against assets of Sh3 billion - a negative working capital of
Sh1.1 billion. The report, tabled in the county assembly stated that the amount of non-revenue water increased by two per cent in
2015-16 compared to 2014-15. The company produced 200,352,109 cubic metres of water but earned Sh4.7 billion only. Read: Nairobi Water in Sh1.1bn debt, loses 42% supply – Ouko report Click here for the latest political stories