Some Opposition leaders have arrived at Uhuru Park ahead of leader Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka sswearing-in as Kenya's president and DP. Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga led supporters who carried placards with messages in support of Raila. She and other leaders sang and danced as they waited for the ceremony to kick off. "My choice, Raila my president. I pledge my loyalty," some of the placards read. Read: Police withdrawn from Uhuru Park as Raila supporters arrive for swearing in  NASA supporters arrive at Uhuru Park in Nairobi for the inauguration of principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as Kenya's leaders, January 30, 2018. /Enos Teche  NASA supporters arrive at Uhuru Park in Nairobi for the inauguration of principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as Kenya's leaders, January 30, 2018. /Enos Teche Other supporters were seen sweeping the podium where the principals are expected to be sworn-in later in the day. Youths, most of them wearing Raila-branded t-shirts, blew whistles as they waved their hands in the air. In NASA's stronghold Kibera, youths were spotted walking to the town centre to attend the ceremony. "Uuuuui, ndiyo huyo, leo ni leo, asemaye kesho ni mwongo (Today is the day, whoever speaks of tomorrow is a liar)" they shouted and whistled as they marched into the city. Some were heard saying the  inauguration was long overdue so they were happy. The youths started streaming into the park at 6am. But by 8am, some businesses were opened as there were no indications of heavy police presence. People including students were seen going to school with others assuring that they would go to the park to show their support for Raila. Also read: Influential faces behind NASA’s planned swearing-in ceremony Beehive swiftly destroyed In a turn of events, the NASA supporters spotted a beehive behind the podium and were quickly alarmed. Reports indicated that at around 4am,unknown people were seen taking a swam of bees to interrupt the ceremony.  Supporters cheer as they wait for NASA leader Raila Odinga to be sworn-in as Kenya's president at Uhuru Park in Nairobi, January 30, 2018. /Reuters  NASA supporters arrive at Uhuru Park in Nairobi for the inauguration of principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as Kenya's leaders, January 30, 2018. /Enos Teche NASA supporters who had camped at the venue were shocked to find the beehive in the wee hours. They swung into action to get rid of the swarm before crowds started to stream into the venue. They begun battling the bees by throwing a shawl on top of the beehive and setting it ablaze. But the shawl did not accelerate the fire as expected. One man then took it upon himself to grab the honeycombs with his bare hands as the crowd cheered him on. During the ruling of presidential election last year, protesters were attacked by a swarm of bees outside the Supreme Court. They were forced to flee for their dear lives after the bees went on rampage. Also read: Editors divided as Uhuru dares media to air Raila's swearing in Click here for the latest political news