Education CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday revoked the Presbyterian University of East Africa’s operating licence. In a letter addressed to Commission for University Education chairman Nyaigoti Chacha, the CS ordered CUE to begin the process of winding up the university’s operations in line with the provisions of the Universities Act. This comes two days after a report by the CUE put an alert on the operations of three universities - Catholic University of Eastern Africa, Kenya Methodist University and the Presbyterian University of East Africa. The three institutions, all affiliated to religious organisations, were flagged because of conflict of interest between the church and the universities. In the recommendations, the CUE called for closure of the Presbyterian University of East Africa by revoking its letter of interim authority. The university, which started operations in 2007, was flagged as being in a financial crisis and lacking adequate resources to meet its obligations given a deficit since 2012. The report by the CUE further revealed unpaid staff arrears for more than two years amounting to Sh611 million. The CUE further gave Kemu and CUEA one year to restructure their operations and get in a sound financial footing, failing which their charters be nullified. The three universities will further suffer a blow after the commission recommended the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service to stop sending government-sponsored students to the institutions. complete studies Speaking to the Star, Chacha said the commission will ensure students currently undertaking studies in the institution will complete studies or be transferred to other institutions. “The students in any university that is flagged for closure are assured of continuity  of their studies because the commission will look for alternatives, among them placement to other institutions that offer the same courses they are pursuing,” Chacha said. The chairman further said the commission will continue reviewing other institutions and make recommendations. investigations In December, Matiang’i ordered CUE to conduct investigations on universities that flouted operation standards, warning institutions found unsuitable will be deregistered. The Presbyterian University was found to run seven degree programmes and 27 non-degree programmes. A report shows in 2017-18, 1,032 students were enrolled in degree programmes while 359 were studying in diploma, certificate and pre-university programmes.      