Nairobi’s Buruburu Phase I residents are happy with Governor Mike Sonko’s office after it thwarted plans by a contractor to put up a mast on their estate without approval from City Hall. The contractor reportedly tried to take advantage of the festive season to put up the mast on a drainage line, contrary to an agreement reached during a public hearing. The residents now want Nema and the Communications Authority to completely stop the project and the county officers ensure construction does not continue. ***** A former governor from Western Kenya has started assembling his campaign team in anticipation of this week’s verdict in a suit challenging the election of the current governor. Corridors learnt the former governor late last week met with his entire campaign team from different wards in a Kisumu hotel where he told them to prepare to hit the road once the petition succeeds. The governor has also reportedly alerted his lawyers to immediately appeal the ruling should it not go his way. But other sources laughed off the former governor’s chances as very slim. ***** A bird whispers to Corridors that former Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe might be set for a major comeback into the national limelight.The former minister for Information and Communication, it is said, is seriously being considered by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto for one of the Cabinet slots. Late last year, a section of Nyeri legislators had appealed to Uhuru to appoint a CS from the county, claiming that former Transport CS Michael Kamau was hounded out of the Cabinet by cartels. Well, its only a matter of days before the truth comes out. ***** Things don’t seem to be too rosy at the Nairobi county ticketing department after the former director was transferred under mysterious circumstances. Our tipster informs us a woman officer has taken charge, complete with a team of men said to be causing havoc on Ngong road. The new officers are openly soliciting money from motorists. Anti-corruption officials are said to be monitoring them closely. The officer is also reported to have announced that she will soon be ordering transfers, which has caused discomfort among the staff who fear she may use the opportunity to punish officers who are not loyal to her. 