Kenya opened their return to the ICC U19 Cricket World Cup on a losing note when they went down by 169 runs to 2014 champions South Africa at the Lincoln Green, Christchurch, New Zealand yesterday. The immediate former champions rode on 125–run second wicket stand between centurion Raynard van Tonder and opener Jiveshan Pillay to post 341 for the loss of seven wickets. In reply Kenya only managed 172 as they played all the allotted 50 overs. Skipper van Tonder put on a masterclass in one-day batting as his 143 drove South Africa well beyond 300. Having lost the toss, Kenya started well in the field. Every dot, whether it was a faultless block or a swish and miss, was greeted with cheers of encouragement, and they got their reward when Matthew Breetzke was caught in the third over. But the pressure dissipated at the arrival of van Tonder, who took full toll especially of anything short, and pulling to whichever part of the boundary he fancied. He received support from Pillay, whose 62 contained some lovely strokes, but once he fell, it was largely a one-man show. What stood out most was the pacing of the innings, as van Tonder capitalised on the first 10-over PowerPlay, rotated the strike in the middle overs, and exploded towards the back end. It wasn’t a chanceless innings – van Tonder was dropped on 62, and was reprieved by a waist-high no-ball after being caught on the square leg boundary when well past his hundred. Kenya bowled with heart and no little skill, and though there were a few balls dropped, their heads never did. They simply came up against a superior opponent in Raynard van Tonder. The game felt over as a contest at the halfway stage, and a fine spell from South Africa’s opening bowlers confirmed the feeling, though numerous dropped catches behind the wicket meant they didn’t get their full rewards. Thando Ntini extracted good bounce and Gerald Coetzee bowled with good pace, striking Kenya opener Aman Ghandi on the helmet and forcing him to retire, hurt. There were starts for four of Kenya’s top six, but all fell before reaching 20, and at 98/6 it appeared an early finish might be on the cards. It took some grit to bat the full 50 overs even with the game gone, and Jasraj Kundi and Ankit Hirani can take great heart from their 50-run partnership. South Africa will want to tighten up in the field and perhaps find some extra incisiveness with their bowling as they face tougher challenges ahead.