Prof Macharia Munene  Kenya experienced a politically turbulent 2017 that is giving way to a very bright 2018, despite the expected continuing hiccups. The hiccups will be from Kenya’s perennial domestic political grumblers often out to derail progress and from international dynamics that are busy realigning global power play. Navigating between the two will be thrilling for a country that just experienced one of its worst political encounters since the death of colonialism. Surprisingly, the Kenya Supreme Court questioned the way some IEBC officials filled and transmitted forms. It ordered the IEBC to organize “fresh” presidential election and once it satisfied itself that IEBC filled and transmitted forms in the fresh election correctly, the court confirmed Uhuru Kenyatta as duly re-elected President of Kenya. The confirmation ended one phase, the one of electoral hyperactivities and chance to return to being normal. Entertaining election dance songs like “Tibim” and “UhuRuto Tana Tena” will disappear into campaign memory. National inspirational songs and socio-cultural dances will continue providing opportunity to feel Kenyan patriotic or get loose. People will still find inspiration in Rufftone’s “Mungu Baba Twaomba” and Eric Wainaina’s “Daima Mimi Mkenya”. The youth will gyrate and jump to various and latest “dum dum” sounds and call it dancing. And on celebration occasions, their elders will forget the troubled 2017 and excitedly jump-dance to Mwana wa Mbele, Mwendwa wa Nie, Wathi Yesu, and Ungiona Njukiite Guku Muthenya Uyu ni Munene. Life, therefore, will return to productive normal in 2018. The confirmation also marked the beginning of the second phase of promise and bright future. Two presidential speeches announced Uhuru’s final term two way dream. He wants to push Pan Africanist policies and find an appropriate niche for Kenya in the ongoing global power realignment. He will continue to stress the right of Kenyans to determine what their interests are and how to relate those interests to other countries. He also wants to mount big time development programs to fit his Big Four dream of transforming Kenya through manufacturing, house construction, food security, and disease reduction. Sufficient quality food will ensure healthy people work in factories and construction places for better housing and lifestyle which collectively would add up to growing the national wealth. The “dream”, however, faces the obstacle of Beyond Uhuru politics of would be presidents. While the NASA grumbling lot will unsuccessfully try to discredit everything, it is the internal wrangles that will make them irrelevant. Raila, baffled “Joshua” lost in “Tibim” world looking for mythical Canaan, sends NASA colleagues into disarray with his unilateralist tendencies. More bewildered than Raila is Kalonzo Musyoka, the die-hard KANU man of the 1980s trying to rebrand himself as “revolutionary” only to look like Raila henchman. The image of henchman undermines Kalonzo’s supposed Ukambani stronghold as Alfred Mutua and Charity Ngilu claim Machakos and Kitui counties, leaving only Kivutha Kibwana’s Makueni to cling on. And NASA creator Musalia Mudavadi, Francis Atwoli’s man, has to reckon with Moses Wetangula, Ababu Namwamba, and Eugene Wamalwa for the Mulembe following. “Sultan” Ali Hassan Joho wants to replace Raila as the ODM kingpin but John Mbadi and probably Otiende Amollo are watching.  The Beyond Uhuru politics are also beyond NASA; they are big in the Uhuru camp with would be candidates jostling for positions. KANU Chairman Gideon Moi, a scion of the prospective Moi dynasty, wants the presidency in 2022 and makes it clear he has no time for Deputy President William Ruto. Wamalwa is reportedly sending political feelers across the country. There are governors preparing for higher office by trying to turn their counties into sub-regional economic hubs and taking advantage of the “sleepy” neighbours to shine by delivering instead of making noise. With that strategy, Mutua has announced his candidacy for 2022 and other presidential dreamers have to pay attention. Countering the negative effects of Beyond Uhuru Politics would depend on the competence of the people that Uhuru, with a fresh 2017 Kenyan mandate, appoints to key positions. Four key competence elements can enable or frustrate great dreams. Without basic knowledge and common sense competence, policy maker would have problems making useful decisions. Second, loyalty competence safeguards national interests in that people with divided loyalty, when a conflict arises, would potentially prefer interests of other entities over those of Kenya. Third, the representative competence takes into account various strands of Kenyan society to own the national interests. Fourth, political awareness competence enables policymakers to handle the unusual calmly and to manage the permanent government, or bureaucrats who do not change with elections and are experts at frustrating the elected government. When in collusion with the grumbling lot, bureaucrats can scatter Uhuru’s Big Four dream, and they do it politely. Uhuru, however, shows signs of overcoming obstacles, natural or manufactured. This implies that 2018 and beyond will be productive and nationally less stressing than the year gone. The Kenyan future is promisingly bright.   Munene teaches history and international relations at United States International University  - Africa   Click here for the latest political news 