Last year was economically challenging and politically exhausting for Kenya. This year is predicted to be the year of fiscal realignment and political reconciliation. The terminology rational behaviour in economics is defined as a part of decision-making practice wherein an individual or company exercises sensible choice-making that provides an optimum amount of benefit. Rational behaviour describes decision-making that may not always give the best possible returns materially. It however strives to achieve benefits that are most optimal in nature to the decision maker, be it monetary or non-monetary. A November 29 memo issued by the Treasury CS identifies the four key priority areas that would be the cornerstone of Kenya’s development initiatives in the next five years. Christened as the ‘Big Four Plan’, the issues of food and nutrition security, affordable housing, inexpensive universal healthcare and manufacturing will be allocated state funds in abundance. Deliberate fiscal space was created during week-long budgetary review meetings after the elections on these segments, even as revenues are Sh29 billion short of target. According to recent Treasury data, there has been a 38.04 per cent (Sh45.17 billion) drop in public spending in comparison to the last quarter of 2016. Nevertheless, these well-intended initiatives need not be compromised as they stand to be pivotal in unlocking the economy’s productive capacity. Housing has become the defining issue of our time as it is evidently at the heart of the current world economic crisis. Provision of affordable housing characterises economic sense and political ingenuity. It is of greater political consequence than most other areas of government policies. The world is experiencing a deficiency in affordable housing. Fiscal consolidation can be achieved with the appraisal of the Big Four if backed with decisive policy intervention and regimented regulatory systems. Technically, affordable homes are defined as facilitating houses for rent or sale that are typically 20-40 per cent below market rates. In Australia, the National Affordable Housing Summit Group coins the definition of affordable housing as, “reasonably adequate in standard and location for lower or middle income households and does not cost so much that a household is unlikely to be able to meet other basic needs on a sustainable basis.” In the United Kingdom it includes “social rented and intermediate housing, provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market.” Ironically, the provision of judiciously under-market rate houses that principally supports high-need consumers continues to be at a historic low, despite the overwhelming demand for it. Foreign investors like the US-based Milost Incorporated and India’s Tata Housing Development Company have subsequently seized opportunities in Kenya. They have inked joint low- and medium-cost housing construction agreements worth billions of shillings with local market players targeting the growing middle and lower-income segments of society. Research has shown that a supply of equitable housing tends to increase new consumer spending in moderate-income households. The promise to provide half a million housing units requires an elaborate collaborative effort from private-public partnerships. Saccos, for instance, have tremendous potential to provide housing financing solutions. Hopefully, “it will now become an accessible part of the Kenyan dream,” as envisioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta in his New Year message. Communication consultant and commentator on
economic and social issues equinoxcommunication@gmail.com