Parents have called on the government to reconsider the university cut off mark and preferably drop it to grade C. This comes after 87 per cent of those who sat the 2017 KCSE examination failed to get the required cut off mark of C+ and above. National Parents Association chairperson Nicholas Maiyo said lowering the entry mark will allow more candidates intending to pursue degrees to join university. Maiyo, who spoke to the Star on phone yesterday further asked the government to make the entry mark C- for those seeking to pursue diploma programmes in public and private universities following the poor performance last year. “The Ministry of Education should consider lowering the university entry point for candidates who sat for KCSE in 2017 to enable them be absorbed in universities and colleges,” Maiyo said. Of the 615,772 candidates who sat in 2017, only 70,073 attained the university entry grade of C+ and above compared to 88,929 in 2016. In 2016, 577,253 candidates wrote the exam. Maiyo also asked the government to come up with alternatives for candidates who scored grade E. “We had a meeting as the parents’ association to deliberate on the future of those who scored grade E and one thing that came out is that they also have a life and we would like to call upon the government to look and improve technical and vocational institutions so they can also have a place to train,” Maiyo said. In last year’s exam, 540,428 candidates scored between grade E and C plain compared to 482,232  the previous year year. Meanwhile, uncertainty remains on where parallel degree programmes and private universities will get students as public institutions second year in a row will absorb almost all qualified students, leaving their private counterparts in an admissions quandary. “Most of this universities operate on parallel degree programmes as the main source of income and two years with no self sponsored students means no income generation is happening and it will not be long before you see some of these universities shutting down,” Maiyo said. The government through Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service is expected to open the placement exercise next month.