A CS who was not among those mentioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta when he named his fresh Cabinet is an unhappy man. The minister is said to have spent millions of shillings to lobby to be retained. The CS, according our mole used the amount to sponsor supportive articles in media, elders and professionals from his community to push for him to be retained but he was shocked when on Friday last week, his name was missing. The situation has even been made worse with reports doing rounds that he could be replaced with another man from his county. * Are some Kisumu County leaders reading too much into Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's weekend article in the Star that some of his friends were writing his obituary? An elected leader from the county was overheard yesterday saying to his close associates that the Governor is using the 'save me from my friends' narrative to avoid discussions on the power-sharing agreement he made with some leaders from the county. “You know the governor is a Professor and will use any means to get out of this issue of short-changing us,” said the politician to some of his aides in a Kisumu hotel on Saturday. ** Some elected leaders from Luo Nyanza are now reading sinister motive in the recently effected head teachers transfers in the region. The leaders are complaining that all their head teachers whose schools had been performing were singled out and transferred to schools in acting Education CS Fred Matiangi's Nyamira backyard. “Not that Nyamira should not have good teachers but why take all our performing teachers to one area?” posed one MP who holds a senior leadership position in the opposition coalition, NASA. ** Junior police officers are celebrating the changes in the security docket announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday last week. The officers who talked to Corridors over the weekend were specifically happy with changes at the criminal investigations department terming it long overdue. On Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Kenya Police Service spokesperson George Kinoti to be the country's top sleuth replacing Ndegwa Muhoro. The officers -many who are from the investigation department- expressed hope that the new changes will provide a better environment to help unearth some of the unresolved high profile criminal cases in the country. ** A former politician from Mount Kenya is said to have resorted to his old controversial habits to make ends meet. The politician with an ongoing case is in the process of launching a merry go round that people close to him argue might be another pyramid scheme. It's also not clear how he managed to get the relevant licenses. Corridors is closely following the events.    