What
National Super Alliance MPs are purporting to do by signing an affidavit is
laughable. Nowhere does the Kenyan Constitution provide that somebody can be
sworn in as the Head of State of this country on the basis of affidavits from
Members of Parliament. The
only job description provided for MPs is to legislate in Parliament and to
oversight Government. That mandate of theirs purporting to act as citizens who
elect a president does not exist. Though
the issues NASA is raising are valid, they cannot be wished away. They
represent a certain constituency of this nation. Read: NASA MPs sign affidavit for Raila's January 30 oath I
think the President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto have a duty to
listen to the grievances raised by NASA. But this cannot be pushed through
threats the way NASA is threatening to swear-in their leader Raila Odinga on
January 30 if there is no dialogue. In
my own view, I think Raila has been getting wrong legal advice on this issue of
swearing-in. He needs to get proper sound advice that on the question of who is
the Head of State of this country is resolved until August 9, 2022, or unless a
vacancy in the President arises due to death or any other issue. For
now, I don't think that affidavit has any legal basis to be considered as a
legal document. Those
MPs appending their signatures on the affidavit are just conducting an academic
exercise. The election of a President in this country is directly done by
voters. The
country’s law states that whoever gets the majority of votes cast in a General
Election and whoever garners 25 per cent of votes in at least 24 counties
becomes the President of the Republic. None of those parameters is envisaged
when the NASA MPs are signing that affidavit. NASA’s
intension of swearing-in Raila to be the Head of State is just a waste of time.
It is not known by the Constitution, which provides how the Head of State of a
country called Kenya can be sworn in. The
Head of State must be sworn in by the Registrar of the Supreme Court in the
presence of the Chief Justice. If
Raila wants to be a new President, he must be handed over power by the outgoing
President Uhuru Kenyatta and he must be given the instruments of power. And
this will not happen. The writer is a political
analyst and a lawyer Click here for the latest political news