Kenya Rugby Union Ponders on the next Move After SportPesa Withdrawal Sponsorship. After the exit of their biggest sponsors, SportPesa, Kenya Rugby Union are now knocking on the government doors for help ahead of the Sydney Sevens (Australia and Hamilton Sevens (New Zealand).  According to a source, the union is now trying to get an appointment with government to present their budget and see how much help they can get. “We shall meet them and see if they can fund the team to the two meetings in Australia and New Zealand. We want a situation, where we will send players for the games and come back saying we haven’t paid their allowances,” the insider revealed. “If the government doesn’t come to our rescue in the next two legs, we will write to International Ruby Board (IRB) with the intention to withdraw from both legs” The source also revealed that KRU have suspended search for a new coach for the Kenya 15s team since they don’t have budget for a new coach. KRU were expected to name a new coach towards the end of this month but this might take longer due to the cash crunch. This year will be a busy for KRU with the Kenya Sevens set to take part in the Commonwealth Games as well as the Sevens World Cup. On the other hand, the Kenya 15s team is set to take part in the Elgon Cup as well as the 2019 World Cup qualifiers in June. The union feels SportPesa would have found a better way of dealing with the issue rather than withdrawing the entire sponsorship. The same is shared across section of federations who were receiving sponsorship from the company. “They would have told us they will be slashing the sponsorship by this amount rather than cancelling the entire sponsorship. Right now, they are using us to wage war on the government,” a source in the union revealed. KRU officials were set to meet yesterday to plan on the way forward after the SportPesa blow.  Kenya Rugby was one of the biggest beneficiaries of the sponsorship, having signed a five-year deal worth Sh605m with the betting company last year. The betting company also became official shirt sponsor for Kenya Sevens and Kenya 15ns as well as the ladies team, the Kenya Lionesses. Last week Sportpesa alongside Pambazuka National Lottery lost a case challenging the implementation of a 35 per cent tax on revenue at the High Court.