Tour and boat operators in Kilifi have protested against mismanagement of tourism sector funds. They have accused Watamu Marine National Park warden
Dadley
Tsingayiu of failing to pay them their Sh1.5 million commission. The group said they are to be paid the commission for increasing the number of tourists visiting the park. Members said the deal was reached in 2014 after the government raised park entry fees from $10 to $20 per tourist, resulting in a drop in numbers. Abdi Mjaidi, chairman of the Watamu Association of Boat Owners and Operators, said KWS reneged on the agreement. He led the group in demanding the Kenya Wildlife Service official's resignation for withholding the monies since July last year. The
group demonstrated
from Blue Bay Beach Resort with the town for almost an hour on Monday. Speaking
after the demonstration, the chairman noted WABO has an agreement with KWS for the money to be remitted. He noted that for every 10 tourists who enter the park, KWS is to pay a commission from
the fees charged. “To promote the parks, KWS entered an agreement with boat owners and operators; that they will get a commission from every 10 clients they attract," he said. “In
return, we expect the commission from KWS but surprisingly, under the leadership
of the warden [since June last year], no amount of money has been remitted." He claimed the warden has been withholding the money yet it is what sustains them. Mjaidi also called for the resignation of the Coast regional assistant director of KWS - Mohamed  Heri - whom he accused being behind the
scheme to withhold their funds. “The money
is normally given to the community of boat operators after it is cut from the park entry
fees at the marine reserve. For every 10 visitors who board a boat, one ticket
goes to the community,’’ he said. Mjaidi further accused the senior warden and the Coast assistant director of colluding to split
WABO, resulting in the formation of a splinter association - Watamu Excursion
of Marine Association (WEMA), "which they want to use as a shield to swindle the
concession money". He noted WABO helped initiate several projects in Watamu, among them a well-equipped
community ambulance and construction of mosques and classrooms in schools. Hussein
Ahmed, a boat owner and a member of WABO, said that through the association they managed to
enroll members for the National Hospital Insurance Fund and helped them to secure soft
loans. “We
bought an ambulance worth Sh1.4 million to help carry sick people to hospital
free of charge. The warden has no good will for us." Ahmed
Mohamed, another WABO member, said they were unable to sponsor students
due to the loss of the funds. Contacted
for comment, the warden dismissed reports that he had refused to pay WABO members. He
said the group declined to issue them with financial records on how the funds
were being spent after some of its members and another splinter group
complained about misuse. The
warden added it was discovered that a few boat owners made decisions without involving other members. “I received
complaints that every member contributed to the kitty but when it came to
sharing, some members were locked out and when KWS tried to intervene the WABO
officials protested,’’ he said. He added efforts to reconcile the members failed. Click here for the latest political stories