The talks were
hoped to assure a smooth transition from the political stalemate to a peaceful
and credible repeat election. Tensions were high, having been occasioned by the nullification of the
August 8 presidential election.  Many Kenyans acknowledged
the challenge we faced was more political than it was legal, and that players
had taken advantage of constitutional loopholes to create a political crisis.
The main players, therefore, needed to sit together and agree on the way forward for
the sake of the nation. The tensions were palpable and the country was once
again on the brink of savage capture by lords of impunity to unleash mayhem and
anguish to the citizens, as they brazenly sought to control the reins of government.
 The economy was
showing signs of fatigue occasioned by constant violent interruptions and
businesses faced imminent collapse. It is no wonder then that the business
community joined the clergy and the diplomatic corps in mobilising resources
and efforts to persuade the main contestants to dialogue, with a possible outcome
as a negotiated settlement to the contentious election, whose outcome IEBC
chairman Wafula Chebukati had earlier declared he couldn’t guarantee its
credibility.  Once the winner
was declared, these calls were even intensified, especially by the envoys,  because the voter turnout was alarmingly low, with some areas witnessing
total boycott, leading to the legitimacy question.  The push for dialogue was upscaled, in
spite of the fact that NASA boycotted the repeat election, didn't
petition the result at the Supreme Court and that it had refused to
recorgnise the process and its outcome.  The petition that was filed by civil
society had covert support from opposition leaders, and both sides of the
political divide seemed to be sure of victory at the highest court. The Court
upheld the election of President Uhuru.  And as the Assumption into Office Committee
made final touches on the swearing in ceremony for the President-elect, NASA
announced they would conduct a parallel ceremony for Raila. Kenyans were scared
and rightly so considering the apparent determination on both sides. Western
powers were on the edge and spared no energy in trying to mollify the now
intransigent NASA leaders. The diplomats were desperate to avert what appeared to
be a repeat of 2007 post-election violence. However, nothing came out of these
grand efforts and the processes became lackluster, clumsy and unnecessarily
energy draining. The reason why
the attempts at dialogue didn’t progress was that they were
externally vested, based on the premise of 2008 National Accord, and, more
importantly, individual-focussed, thus lacking institutional framework. While
the process leading to the 2017 situation were similar to the 2007 electoral
circumstances, the context, variables and environment were different.  The players were
basically the same but the constellation was different, as alliances had
shifted considerably, establishing a new political order in the country. The 2013 and
2017 election contest were both personal and monumental to the contestants and
their teams. There were grudges to be settled and egos to be soothed. That is
why both sides took grandstanding positions ahead of the elections and none
declared wholeheartedly acceptance of defeat beforehand. Loss was not
contemplated and either party was prepared to take the country down with its
apparent loss. The IEBC, of course, exasperated the situation by their open
dereliction of national duty and deliberate ineptitude leading to the
nullification of the results by the Supreme Court citing irregularities and
illegalities. The environment was so poisoned that it could not promote
dialogue. The people calling for dialogue themselves had long lost credibility
in the public court and, therefore, lacked moral authority to command respect
both from the public and the protagonists.  The clergy had
demonstrated open bias in the lead up to the election, while envoys had rushed
to endorse the August election result, only to be invalidated by the Supreme
Court soon after. In fact, the Church is so deeply divided that it is considered that they need dialogue more. Their
calls for dialogue thus fell on deaf ears and, at best, were treated with
contempt and ridicule. The elephant in
the house, however, was that the push for dialogue lacked institutional
framework and, therefore, could not be implemented and sustained. It depended on
the goodwill of Raila and Uhuru, both of whom were and still appear disinterested in the process. The institutions that could facilitate and chaperone
the dialogue process include the political parties, the Executive, the
Legislature and the Judiciary. But all these institutions have demonstrated over
the years zealous willingness to play second fiddle to the dominant political
players, in spite of their constitutional protection. Once in a while, they
struggle to stand up for the public good with immense difficulty.  Let us consider
the political parties first. It is an agreed truth that polities in Kenya have
refused to conform to known traditions and practices of democratic principles
as established in the classical or modern states. Yet, parties emerged as the
purveyors of democracy as the tyranny of feudalism and monarchism waned in
Europe.  Ourparties have remained conclaves of dominant political
families, which brook little or no dissent and usually change form, content and
character during every election cycle without a tinge of shame. The electoral
circumstances dictate the direction of the leader’s choice of alliances and,
therefore, the name and form of the party. The party literature is normally are
carried over to the new outfits like balance carried forward in financial
statements but without much regard to their consistency, accuracy or relevance.
The political parties in our case thus cannot compel the leaders to do a
national good if it does not coincide with their respective self-interests. Kenya’s Executive
enjoys immense powers and wields considerable influence because it is infused
with the functions of the state. In ordinary circumstances, when a nation faces
a crisis of the magnitude that we are currently coming out of (or aren’t we?),
then the citizens look upon the head of state to step in and bring
understanding to safeguard the sovereignty of the state. However, the
presidential system as practiced in Kenya since 1964 has made nonsense of the
concept of separation of powers and the three arms of government. It is,
therefore, farfetched to imagine and expect the Executive enjoying the privileges
of state power to intervene on behalf of the citizens and in the interest of
public good in a dispute in which they are either petitioner or defendant. The
Judiciary is slowly rising from the infamous ash of ignominy as the hawker of
justice, which our national anthem demands to be our shield and defender. It
has lately undertaken some acts of bravery that has rightly attracted applause
from across board.  These acts are
sporadic but commendable but the institution is yet to receive acceptability
and respect from the dominant political players. These leaders have no qualms
deriding the judges, calling them names, ridiculing them in public and treating
their rulings with open contempt. Again, the Judiciary, just as the political party
and the Executive, cannot be relied upon to be the midwife for the national
dialogue process. The Legislature
as the people’s representatives would have naturally stepped into this role.
However, our Parliament has entrenched in its activities the culture of
lawlessness together with unbridled impunity and acquired notoriety as a rogue
institution. Kenyans no longer have unfettered faith in it as the promoter and
protector of public good. Instead being a MP is seen more as avenue for self
aggrandisement and gravy train of rent seeking and tenderprenuership. Debates
in the chambers are normally more guided and characterised by self-interest and
respective party leaders’ personal agenda than the national development agenda.
 Cases of members
being influenced by external forces to take specific positions have been
reported in the media. Parliament in its current form and composition cannot,
therefore, rise above narrow partisan interests to undertake the delicate national
duty of bridging the political divide and thaw hostilities through dialogue to
unite the country. Unfortunately though, the resurgent civil society is still
in disarray, intimidated and battered by the constant state harassment and
therefore lacks the necessary stamina to mount a successful national healing
programme. They also can’t help out at our hour of most need! Kenya is now
looking at another opportunity for self-evaluation and national renewal.
Relying on individuals to provide leadership for the important task of national
dialogue will not give us a lasting solution to our deep seated problems. Yet
the dilemma lies in the fact that currently, this dialogue cannot take place
without the direct involvement of the two leading protagonists in politics. A
delicate balance must be found to develop a process that will yield better
results and more lasting solutions than the outcome of 2008 National Accord.
The leadership of both NASA and Jubilee are key planks in this endevour but
efforts must be made to identify credible mediators, arbitrators and
messengers. It is a time honoured position that the credibility of the
messenger and the manner of message delivery determines how the message is
received and reacted to.  The untainted
leaders of the clergy are still in the woods and need to step out and be
counted so that they may redeem the image of the church and enable it
participate effectively in this process. Raila and President Uhuru should
themselves find fortitude and surprise both friends and foes by delivering a
more united and prosperous Kenya to posterity. Between the two of them, they
currently hold the future of this country jointly, but it will not be forever. They
should bequeath this nation, institutions that will serve citizens with equity
and justice.  Whatever they
can do must be done sooner rather than later; and of the two, to whom more has
been given more is expected!   Kanyadudi is a public policy analyst