About 200 schools in Baringo face closure owing to a water crisis occasioned by a prolonged dry spell in the region. The situation saw parents storm a school in Riongo demanding the institution's immediate closure following the water shortage. Armed with clubs and pangas, the group sought answers from Riongo head teacher Collins Kasses over the situation. Victor Nakomer, a teacher at the school, said they have not experienced rains in the area since May last year. Riongo is among 11 schools facing imminent closure in Silale ward, Tiaty sub-county alone. Another 118 schools in the region's seven wards are facing similar challenges. Naudo primary school was closed on Monday last week. Other affected schools in Tiaty are Orision, Nasorot, Akule, Toplen, Silale, Napeikore, Nalekat, Napukut, Kitailem, Cheptamas, Kangoria, Nakoko, Cheptunoyo and Chemukutan. However, Silale MCA Nelson Lotela pleaded with the residents to calm down as the county and the national government work on ways of retaining the children in schools. Lotela also appealed to the NGOs and humanitarian agencies like the Red Cross, World Vision, Action Aid, among others to intervene. He asked Governor Stanley Kiptis to utilise the emergency funds for supply of water to the affected residents. Schools such as Kuikui, Ayatya, Torolokwonin, Barwessa, Marigut and Kinyach Ngaratuko, Chemoe, Yatya, Tuluk, Kagir, Loruk, Chepkesin, Kapturo, Toboroi, Barsuswo and Lokorotabim in Baringo North are also affected. Ramacha, Karma,Katilimwo, Kapndasum, Chemorongion, Embosos, Arabal, Chebinyiny, Sosionte, Nyimbei, Kasiela, Keon, Tuiyotich, Lamaiwe, Karne and Kabel, Rugus, Noosukro and Siarata in Baringo South sub-county are also faced with the crisis. Saimo-Soi MCA Richard Chesermen says the situation might get worse if the rains delay until next month, noting the list of the affected schools are increasing every day. Willy Machocho, county director of education, said: "It will be very embarrassing for schools to be closed for lack of water. Let the relevant authorities act."  Click here for the latest political news  