Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has accused traffic police of concentrating on bribe collection at the expense of road safety. Oparanya said the police are to blame for the worrying road carnage as they do not ensure adherence to traffic rules. The officers instead focus on enriching themselves, the governor said. “If police were doing their work effectively, we would not have these accidents claiming lives on Kenyan roads,” he said at Muraka during the joint funeral service for five youth who died in a road accident at Sigalagala on the Kisumu-Kakamega highway last week. The five died after a motor bike they were riding on collided with a matatu. police to blame? Oparanya said the ban on long-distance night travel by the government was misguided as police are the real cause of accidents. The county boss urged boda boda operators to adhere to traffic rules. “Though we blame the police, the riders must also ensure they have helmets on and their bikes are roadworthy,” he said. The governor urged politicians to work together in ending poverty. “The campaign period is over and all of us should put our parties aside and serve the people. That is why they elected us,” Oparanya said. The governor added that he will join the “principals” of national politics in 2022. He said Kakamega has a population of 2.2 million people and is large enough to qualify to be on the negotiating table in national leadership. “Our leader Raila Odinga was here a week ago and I told him that Kakamega must be at the table in 2022,” he said. Unconfirmed reports indicate Oparanya is registering a new political party to use in the 2022 elections after serving his second and final term as governor. higher post in 2022 He has announced he will be running for a higher office in the next General Election. Oparanya has, however, denied claims that he was angling to become Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate. Meanwhile, Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito has said he will run for Kakamega governor in 2022. Kizito endorsed his Ford Kenya competitor in the last election and Knut branch chairman Patrick Chungani to take over from him. 