Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has asked the Mulembe community to be patient as the President is still forming his Cabinet that will include Luhyas. President Uhuru Kenyatta recently named part of his Cabinet, which did not include Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and Environment’s Judi Wakhungu. The move led to mixed reactions from residents and Western region politicians. Lusaka on Thursday said Luhyas are part of the Jubilee government which they helped to form and deserve a rightful share. The Senate speaker addressed teachers, parents and pupils at Ken Lusaka Chengwali Secondary School, when he handed over a Sh2 million donation from the Chinese government to the school. sh2 million donation The money will be channelled towards building more classrooms and buying land to expand the school. Lusaka said he will get more funds from friends abroad to develop the county. He added that leaders and residents from the region should be patient and support Jubilee as it forms the government. “I want to ask our people who came out and voted for Jubilee not to throw words that we have been left out,” he said. The Senate speaker said elections are over and Kenyans should focus on development. “On behalf of Bungoma people and Western region, I want to thank the President for giving us the position of deputy head of Public Service by selecting Wanyama Musiambo,” he said. Lusaka said he is optimistic that Musiambo, who comes from Webuye, will do a good job. swearing-in On the issue of swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga, the former governor said it is illegal and against the Kenyan Constitution. NASA leaders and supporters have said on January 30 Raila will be sworn in as the People’s President. He asked Western politicians and residents to ignore the ceremony he termed a big joke. Lusaka said Uhuru has formed his government after he was sworn in and there is no way Raila can be sworn in again. He said the move will only subject the country to unnecessary chaos. “We must observe the laws and respect the Constitution. If we fail because of selfish interests we will plunge the country into chaos.” Analysts say Lusaka still enjoys popularity in Bungoma and on most of the county’s social media platforms. Some of his supporters still want him to come back and vie for Bungoma governor in 2022. This comes as some Jubilee politicians and residents say Lusaka should team up with Deputy President William Ruto and be his running mate in the 2022 race for State House.