Posta Rangers continued to beef up their squad with Tusker’s Luis Tera Misiko and Homeboyz winger Jeremiah Wanjala the latest to join the mailmen ahead of the new enya Premier League season set to kick off in two weeks time. The club confirmed that the two players will be with the team until the year 2020. “Tera and Wanjala have joined us on three-year deal each. Midfielder Tera joins from Tusker while striker Wanjala from Kakamega Homeboyz,” the cub said in a terse statement. The duo become the ninth and tenth signings the club have made in recent weeks following the earlier arrivals of Danson Kago (Tusker), Calvin Odongo (Sharks), Suleiman Ngotho (Thika United) and Marcellus Ingotsi (Leopards), Kennedy Onyango (Nakumatt), Osborne Monday (Sharks), who joined them on a three-year contract as did George Abege (Sony Sugar). Monday, a Kenyan international can play in a variety of positions while Abege is a striker. Youngster Peter Ng’ang’a was also signed on a three-year deal from Nakuru AllStars. Misiko, who plied his trade with French League one side OGC Nice is set to bring his vast European experience to the mailmen who were understood to be in search for a proven goal scorer. The arrivals of virtually a new first eleven will without a doubt mean that players from last year are bound to exit the club though no official release has yet to be announced. Meanwhile, former Rangers and AFC Leopards goalie Ian otieno has joined Sofapaka. The 24-year-old goalkeeper Ian Otieno’s said he now wants his new club to have a bite of the cherry in their quest to clinch the league title. “Yes, I have had experience playing at Ingwe and Rangers and I think it’s time Sofapaka also had the privilege to enjoy my services,” he said. Otieno, who is on a long term contract with Sofapaka after being off-loaded by his immediate former club Leopards, underscored the need of Batoto Ba Mungu squad striving to protect the dignity of the team. “Playing for a big club like Sofapaka is one thing and delivering is quite another. I mean, all players are paid to play and are thus duty-bound to ensure Sofapaka is a force to reckon within Kenya and outside its borders,” said Otieno. Otieno had a roller-coaster season with AFC Leopards which, he says, culminated into unceremonious parting of ways with the team but declined to go into details.