Only God will help Kenya if she goes the way of South Sudan and Somalia, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said. He said on Thursday leaders should prioritise dialogue to end the current political impasse. “I really feel pained about my country. I don’t want to make another plea. I’ve spoken enough. I’m just but a Kenyan leader who feels concerned,” Kalonzo said during a rally in Kitui. He has pleaded many times with President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to agree to talks with NASA, which is rooting for electoral reforms. “Even the European Union met in Luxembourg and said there is no option but to dialogue in Kenya. I don’t know why people are allergic to the truth,” Kalonzo said. “Kenya has got to a point where I have to throw my hands up and ask for God’s intervention. I know God will do [things His way].” He criticised the media for portraying him as having issued an ultimatum to Uhuru to force him into dialogue. Dialogue is necessary, otherwise it would be too late to hold one, Kalonzo said. “It’ll not be useful when things have already gone haywire,” the former Vice President said. Nyenze widow cleared by iebc Meanwhile, Kalonzo accompanied Edith Vethi, the widow of former Kitui West MP Francis Nyenze, on a vote hunt. Vethi seeks to succeed her husband. She presented her Wiper nomination certificate to the IEBC in Matinyani and was cleared to run. Three other candidates — Robert Leli of Narc Kenya, Elijah Ikonge of Chama Cha Uzalendo and independent Dennis Mulwa — were also cleared by returning officer James Mbai. Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot accompanied Mulwa as he presented his nomination papers. He said his party supports the candidate because his views resonate with his the party’s ideals. Aukot dismissed as irrelevant the planned swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo as the People’s President and DP. He said the August 8 election, whose results NASA rides on, was nullified by the Supreme Court and a rerun, which it boycotted, ordered. “They are insisting on the swearing-in to manage the expectation of their supporters. If anything, I do not see that swearing-in taking place. I will not be surprised if by the date of the event, they will all be out of the country,” Aukot said. 