Champions KCB host Homeboyz in a top of the table clash as the Kenya Cup league resumes from the Christmas and New Year break. The two sides are level on 20 points and their encounter promises to be mouth-watering showdown with both teams keen to lay down a marker early in the season. The bankers have a good record against the Deejays in the last four seasons losing once, 33-24, last season at the Lions’ Den. KCB coach Curtis Olago has made some change from the team that beat Nakuru 27-12 before the break. Martin Owila drops to the bench, to be replaced by Nick Ongeri. Brian Nyikuli will start from the bench meaning Davies Chenge starts on the blindside and Peter Waitere on the openside. Waitere started at eight in Nakuru but Kenya Sevens captain Andrew Amonde is available to start. Ahmed Shaban will start at fly-half in place of Essau Otieno while Brian Omondi comes in for Ken Moseti. Jacob Ojee and Arthur Ochieng are the wingers with Darwin Mukidza starting at fullback.  Mclanhan Sikuku, Marlin Mukolwe, Stafford Abeka, George Gichure and Griffin Musila join Owila and Nyikuli on the bench. Homeboyz have also made several changes to their starting XV. Paul Murunga will start with Dalmus Chituyi, Charles Otieno and Kenyan international Steve Otieno at the back row. In the backs, Haroun Lubisia starts at flyhalf with Mohammed Omollo starting at scrumhalf. Alvin Otieno starts at inside centre after recovering from injury to partner Kevin Ochami at outside centre with Bush Mwale being handed his debut on the wing. Both coaches expect a competitive match and Olago believes this is the bankers’ biggest match of the season so far. “It’s still early in the season but this will be our toughest match so far. We know what Homeboyz can do and we must be at our best,” said Olago.  The days other top fixture will be at the Kakamega showground where third-placed Kabras host fourth-placed Quins. Other fixtures of the day will see fifth-placed Impala Saracens host Resolution Kisii RFC at Impala Club while Mwamba will be chasing their first win of the season when they host Mombasa RFC at Railway Club. Nondies face Strathmore Leos as Nakuru entertain Blak Blad.