Title: Scary Hours Artist: Drake Genre: Hip hop Release:  January 20  The endless debate about who owns the crown and elusive title of greatest rapper alive always seems to gain new life every time a rapper releases a mixtape, EP or album. In 2017, we saw spitters like Kendrick Lamar, Jay Z and Eminem release their LPs that stirred a lot of discussions and left other rappers in shambles. Drake, too, released his full-length LP “More Life,” but due to explicable reasons, it wasn’t as solid as those of his closest rivals. It was just another experimental attempt that felt like his antecedent major drop “Views”. At least, judging from this two releases, he’s shifted the hip-hop culture in so many previously unimaginable ways and dominated pop charts. His latest surprise release “Scary Hours” is somehow difficult to believe. For some reason best known to the Toronto artiste, the surprise EP is minimalist. In only two tracks,  he evokes one kind of release not common to him. For those who are familiar, Drake’s the kind of rapper you’d expect to release two full-length LPs with over 15 tracks in the same year. This time he only did two tracks. In just under 8 minutes, Drake takes us through what makes him one of the intrinsically biggest rap artistes today. He knows how to switch his style effortlessly and this is evident on the EP. On God’s Plan, he offers a more contemporary display that stays true to his trap music style and sound. Diplomatic Immunity highlights something we haven’t heard from Drake in such a long while: it’s actual rap. It’s an audacious drop, one that can actually pit him against other top artistes. It’s narrative with a well-organised rhyme scheme that takes a deep dive into power and success. And for four minutes straight, he trades of some of the best bars we’ve heard in a long while. Before “Scary Hours” dropped, Drake had been awfully quiet. But this release could be a way to hint to his fans of a possible new project and could be a warning sign to all other rappers. He’s back and ready to battle for the top spot once again.  Star Rating: 3 out of 5