The Ministry of Education, examination council and CS Fred Matiang’i have been barred from disbanding Koilel Boys High School’s board of management. Justice Roselyn Korir yesterday ordered the ministry and the examination council not to dissolve Koilel management board pending determination of petition. Sitting at the High Court in Nakuru, Korir ordered that the petition be mentioned on January 23. The Koilel board of management sued Matiang’i and the Kenya National Examination Council board for withholding its KCSE class of 2017 results. The board denied allegations that the students received leakage during the examination period. Through lawyer Bernard Kipkoech, the school board and two parents filed the petition under a certificate of urgency. It wanted the court to compel the ministry and Knec to release the results of the 318 students. In a notice of motion dated January 2, Kipkoech said the rights of students to fair administrative action, hearing and education has been violated. The ministry was to conclude an investigation on January 18 and announce a report. The school board the ministry’s targetcould not be examination malpractice because the results were uploaded on the Knec website. In the suit papers, the school asked that the respondents be compelled to release the results and the petitioners to scrutinise the marked examination papers. Kipkoech also wants the court to order the respondents to give them access to all marked examination scripts for the KCSE class of 2017 in Koilel High School. Other respondents in the case are the Nakuru county director of education, Inspector General of Police and the Attorney General, on grounds that they have condemned Koilel High School and the students without any form of fair hearing. Kipkoech accused Matiang’i and Nakuru county director of education Isaac Atebe of having acted unprofessionally and conspired against the 318 students by declining to release their KCSE exam results. “The parents and students are inconvenienced and cannot plan for their future academic and/or career progressions,” Kipkoech said. He said investigations are predetermined because the CS has judged the school board and wants to disband it.