A test of supremacy between the Judiciary and Legislature will manifest itself today as Jubilee MPs move to dethrone their colleagues from parliamentary committee leadership positions. Last December, the High Court reinstated four Jubilee lawmakers who had been de-wipped from the House committees after they vied against candidates who had been fronted by the party’s top leadership. Justice John Mativo’s stay order meant they would continue to head the committees until the case is heard tomorrow. Each committee has 19 members. In each committee, NASA has seven members while Jubilee has a numerical strength of 12 members. Read: Don't let politicians meddle with matters law, Kriegler tells judiciary The committee will achieve quorum as required by the House Standing Orders if Jubilee legislators turn up. The exercise will be presided over by House Clerk Michael Sialai. Alfred Keter, Silas Tiren, Kangogo Bowen and James Gakuya sued Majority Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, Majority leader Aden Duale and National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi for discriminating against them. Chairpersons of the Labour and Social Welfare Committee (Keter), Agriculture and Livestock (Tiren), Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library (Gakuya) and vice chairperson of the Environmental and National Resources committee (Bowen) were elected on December 20. In his affidavit, Keter said, “I’m aware the President and the Deputy President are not members of the departmental committees of the National Assembly and as such their opinions would not matter over and above the decision of members of the respective committees”. But Washiali said, “We have many ways at our disposal to have them removed. We’ve decided to use a vote of no-confidence in them and we know it is going to work”. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed yesterday directed NASA legislators not to participate in removing the rebels from their positions. In a letter sent to all opposition members of the four committees, Junet advised them to snub the meetings since they exercised their mandate on December 20. Click here for the latest political news