HAS Nasa Leader Raila Odinga’s wife Ida been given brand new cars and her bodyguards restored?  Remember they were withdrawn last year as the opposition launched its anti-IEBC protests. We are being told by those in the know that a plan to give Ida the new cars was conceived last year, but was held back after her husband withdrew from the repeat Presidential election. ***** TALK of ambition! Some ANC MPs think that President Uhuru Kenyatta will be willing to serve as Prime Minister in Musalia Mudavadi’s government. The ANC dreamers think that once the head of state is done with his last term, there is nothing barring him from returning to the government - as PM. We are told that the party plans to attract heavyweight people to its side as it prepares for the next election. ***** IS President Uhuru Kenyatta dangling Cabinet slots to some NASA principals? Uhuru's delay to name his full Cabinet has not only raised eyebrows but also caused anxiety in the country. Indeed, many Kenyans still wonder why Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto are not showing any sign of unveiling the full list soon. Word has it that the Attorney General position and a lucrative Cabinet slot has been dangled before two opposition principals in Jubilee’s plot to split NASA.  It’s said millions in cash has also been dangled before a third NASA co-principal, who has declined a top government slot not to be branded as a betrayer to ruin his 2022 Presidential bid. ***** A former top police officer is really a frustrated man. The man was used to the trappings of power and his mobile phone was always busy with incoming calls 24/7 was overheard complaining that, lately, most of his former friends and colleagues rarely answer his calls. He further lamented that those who always used to call him have equally disappeared into thin air. Quite a lesson that when you are in power people do not pick your calls as an individual but because of the power you wield at the time. ***** COULD there be powerful forces behind the recent demonstrations held within Nairobi against the staff of the Kenyatta National Hospital over allegations of rape cases in the wards? A little bird has told Corridors that three individuals are the mobilisers of the demos. A point of concern to KNH staff is how swiftly the whistleblowers printed placards and T-shirts, almost as if it had been well planned before the matter was even shared. This could be something to look into during the ongoing investigations into the matter.