Amani
National Congress women leaders have endorsed their leader Musalia Mudavadi for
President in 2022. The women, drawn from the 47 counties, said they will begin a drive to popularise Mudavadi across the country. Immaculate Shamala, the group's leader, said they are energised for a door-to-door campaign for the ANC leader. The women said Mudavadi, a member of NASA, stands the best chance of "restoring Kenya's lost glory". "We are asking all Kenyans to join us
in this noble quest to bring back order through Mudavadi," she told journalists in Kisumu on Saturday. "Mudavadi is our only hope for Kenya getting back its lost glory and
restoring itself to the vibrant economy it was." This
came as the coalition is preparing to swear in their leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as
the people's president next week. The lot dismissed notions that it is too early to start campaigns for the 2022 presidential election saying putting mechanisms and structures for the race can't wait. "A
hunter does not say it is too early to set up a snare. We feel it is better that we prepare early because the assignment we have taken
upon our self is huge," Shamala added. Also read: [STATEMENT] How media missed the 'Raila supporting Ruto in 2022' joke Evelyne
Mwanza, a Kakamega MCA, said that with Mudavadi at the helm of the country's leadership, "Kenya will be in safe and peaceful hands". She said Kenyans dream of a nation that guarantees equal access to opportunities, merit and not rewards for political sycophancy. "We want a country that embraces prudent
public spending and not one whose leaders thrive on plunder and wastage at the
expense of people." "Our
dream is achievable if we put a focused passionate and well meaning leadership, which is assured through Mudavadi," Mwanza said. The
women said its is regrettable that the nation is bleeding from the cancer of "corruption that has pushed people into the realm of stench, filth and poverty". "Our
country’s misery is a result of the bad politics of exclusion and political manipulation," Teresia Mwoki, an MCA from Kwale county, said. "The current leadership has infringed upon democratic spaces and participatory space in
our country." She
added: "This has led to a reemergence of an authoritarian executive that is strangling
and negating the progressive promises in our Constitution." "Its no secret that our nation is in pieces and there is need to restore the
country to order," she said during the press conference in Kisumu. Click here for the latest political stories