Former Ireland lock and back row Alan Quinlan will be the guest of honour at the Rugby Patrons Society annual dinner set for Saturday Nairobi. The dinner was slated for October 28 last year but was postponed due to security the uncertainties prompted by the repeat Presidential elections. Quinlan, who arrived in the country on Monday, also has a series of activities lined up for him during his stay in Kenya. He will conduct an age-grade coaching clinic with the Community Rugby Association coaches and a group of players from Githogoro Village in Runda on Saturday. He will later that afternoon attend the top of the table Kenya Cup clash between champions KCB and Homeboyz at the KCB Sports Club in Ruaraka before conducting another clinic at a yet to be confirmed venue next Tuesday. Quinlan represented Ireland ‘A’ between 1998 and 2001 and made his senior debut for the Irish national team in October 1999, as a replacement in a Test against Romania. He played his first Six Nations match against Italy in 2001. He was a part of Ireland’s squad at the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia and scored two tries in the tournament before dislocating his shoulder. He scored a vital try against Argentina in the pool stages, which ended his involvement. He was named in Ireland’s 2007 Rugby World Cup squad but did not make any appearances. He played for Munster in 1996 and captained the youths team before becoming a regular in the first team. In May 2006, he made a comeback from a cruciate ligament injury earlier in the season to win both the AIB League Division 1 title with Shannon and the Heineken Cup with Munster after a late appearance from the bench in the Heineken Cup Final win over Biarritz in Cardiff. He captained the side from Number Eight in Munster’s upset victory over Ulster in Ravenhill in the 2007 Celtic League. Quinlan was voted Man of the Match as Munster beat Toulouse 16–13 on May 24, 2008 to win the Heineken Cup for a second time. In total, he holds five league medals with Shannon, as well as two Heineken Cup medals and a Celtic League Medal with Munster. He is presently a rugby commentator for Sky Sports on their rugby coverage and a rugby correspondent for the Irish Independent newspaper and a TV Sports Presenter with the RTE News talk Breakfast Show.