Four Jubilee MPs who were voted out of various House committees on
Tuesday now wants the party punished by court for defying a court order. Nandi
Hills MP Alfred Keter told court that the decision by their party
stripping him and his colleagues house leadership positions was in
contravention of orders that stopped their removal. Other MPs who were removed are James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) and Silas Tiren (Moiben). Keter
told the court on Wednesday that he intends to file for contempt so
that the party is punished for defying court orders by stripping him and
his colleagues of the positions. The legislator lost his Labour committee chairmanship post after his Jubilee Party counterparts voted to have him ejected. Read: No confidence vote: Alfred Keter ousted as Labour committee chair Also read: Not shaken? Keter says he's still Labour committee chair Tiren
was removed as chair of the Agriculture and Livestock Committee, Bowen
from the Environment Committee while Gakuya lost the Library Committee
chair slot. The MPs passed the vote of no confidence against him
and his colleagues following a motion sponsored by Nominated MP David
Ole Sankok. The motion was passed after the court had on December
27 issued orders stopping the removal of the four MPs from their new
positions. The four, through lawyer Frank Welukwe, argue in the
matter filed on Wednesday that no elections can be held to replace them
as the same is not anchored upon any law. "In any event, no cogent and lawful reason has been given as to why a vote of no confidence would be sufficient against us." "...other than the fact that the executive would prefer certain individuals over us," they said. Welukwe asked the judge to intervene and stop further action from being taken against them. However, Justice George Odunga said they were at liberty to file a formal application for contempt. In
spite of the spirited fight, speaker Justine Muturi says the court has
no jurisdiction to hear the dispute as it relates to the party and its
members. Muturi further says the decision by the court allowing
the MPs to pursue the case is a nullity having been made without
jurisdiction and the orders ought to be set aside. Justice Odunga allowed Alexander Kimutai Kosgey (Emgwen) to come on board as an interested party. The case will be heard on February 6. Related: Jubilee keen on equity, not Alfred Keter's TV noises - Duale Click here for the latest political news 