  Why the new system? The KICD Basic Education Curriculum
Framework: A Summary (hereafter referred to as the Framework) forwarded by the
education Cabinet Secretary, Dr Fred Matiang’i quotes the rationale for the new
system as one that is intended to develop individuals in a holistic way, which
will produce citizens who are competent intellectually, emotionally and
physically.  Moreover, its mode of assessment will be
formative ( assessment for learning)
as opposed to the 8-4-4 system whose mode of assessment is summative
(assessment of learning). The ideals are noble. I have a problem with
the clear distinction between summative and formative forms of assessment. I
would like to see a few questions that brings out their differences in, say,
mathematics or chemistry. Hopefully, those who participated in the formulation
of the new system must have addressed that issue.   NUMBER OF SUBJECTS AT EACH LEVEL The Framework show a rather large number of
subjects at each level compared to the current system.  In Pre-primary level the subjects focus on
language, mathematics, environment, 
psychomotor and creativity, religious education and community service.   In lower primary we have literacy, Kiswahili/Kenyan
sign language, English, Mathematics, environment, hygiene and nutrition,
religion and life skills, movement and creativity and community service
activities.  In upper primary, there will be English,
Kiswahili/ Kenyan sign language, home science, agriculture, science and
technology, mathematics, religious education and life skills, creative arts,
physical and health education, social studies (citizenship, geography,
history), optional foreign languages (Arabic, French, German, Mandarin Chinese)
and community service   In Lower secondary they will study English, Kiswahili/Kenyan
sign language, mathematics, integrated science, health education, pre-technical
and pre-career education, social studies, religious education, business studies,
agriculture, life skills education, sports and physical education, optional
subjects (Visual Arts, Performing Arts, Home Science, Computer Science, Foreign
languages, Kenyan Sign language, indigenous languages) and community Service   Senior School Education: This will differ from the three pathways:
Arts and Sports Science, Social Sciences and STEM (Science, Technical,
Engineering and Mathematics). The details are not contained in the Framework.   PROGRESSION IN LEARNING-UP TO SENIOR SECONDARY
EDUCATION The progression from Upper Primary (Grade 6)
to Lower Secondary (Grade 7-9) will be done through National Assessment (not
Knec). Interestingly, it will not be based on individual competence. I do not
know, nor have I heard of such an assessment. However, I believe it will form
the basis of admission to lower secondary schools. How this will determine
which student joins which secondary school remains a mystery to me. For
example, what will determine those joining national schools or county schools?
And in any case, will there be such classification of schools? Will schools such
as Alliance, Maseno, Tartar etc, be part of local schools in their respective
villages? The Framework states that all Grade 6 pupils will
join lower secondary schools, notwithstanding the outcome of the national assessment.
Are these secondary schools enough to absorb all these pupils? The average
ratio of secondary schools to primary schools is about 1:5. Remember many of
the secondary schools are day schools. This demands we rapidly put up many more
day secondary schools, something that will demand a huge amount of money.   The Framework states that at the end of lower
secondary education (Grade 9), the learners will have their formative
assessment from two fronts — their course work, which will comprise 70 per cent
and Knec examination, which will make 30. What shall we call this examination?
Have we addressed the subjectivity of the 70 per cent course work mark? Arising from this information, it is
important to ask, will each school send candidates’ out of 70 per cent course
work marks to Knec, which will in turn compute the final grade or will
candidates get two certificates, one from the school-course work marks and
another from Knec? The Framework states these two results will form the basis
of selection to schools offering three year-senior secondary education (Grade
10 to 12) in any of the three pathways: Arts and Sports Science, Social Science
and Science, Technical, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). A number of challenges will have to be addressed
to realise this transition: One, can a parent reject a pathway directed by the
Ministry of Education for his/her child? Two, what will inform the
categorisation of the secondary schools into the three pathways? Can a school
offer one or more of the pathways? Can we afford the requirements to make them
operational?  And three, the Framework is
silent on the final examination at the end of Grade 12 to mark the conclusion
of the Basic Education, which is the basis of admission to tertiary
institutions. In the first place, will there be such an examination? If so, what
shall we call it? If not, what shall guide entry into tertiary education and
training?    PROVISION OF LEARNING MATERIALS The Framework states the number of subjects
at all levels. In my view, the current books in schools will not meet the
demands of this new system. Consequently, new books will have to be published
for the current subjects and also for new ones such as: Environmental activity,
Indigenous languages (these are not available and KICD has not provided
guidelines on how they will be written. What indigenous language will learners
in urban area use?), Hygiene and Nutrition, creative arts, Home Science,
Agriculture, Life skills Education, Sports and Physical Education, Integrated
Science, Social Sciences, Health Education, Pre-technical and Pre-career Education,
and foreign languages — (Arabic, French, German and Mandarin Chinese, etc.)  Concerning other learning materials, for
example, for Sport Science, Visual and Performing arts, including sports
equipment, the financial implication is huge.   TRAINING It is possible that the training of teachers is
ongoing or is set to start very soon. The problem here is that, even if we
start this training, natural justice will not permit us to employ those being
trained now before we employ the previous ones. We all know there is a backlog
of employment of qualified teachers. There are teachers who completed training
10 years ago, who are waiting to be employed. It would be unfair to employ
others before them. This will have a negative effect on the new education
system unless we urgently absorb now all the trained teachers (fortunately many
schools are understaffed now).  ­­­ CONCLUSION Given the scenarios highlighted above, it is
my considered opinion that this new system was not thought out properly.
Therefore, I would not hesitate to say that we put it on hold until the
educators thoroughly interrogates it.