Tourism stakeholders are optimistic that 2018 will be a positive year for the sector which has been struggling for the last decade. On Thursday, MS Nautica, a Norwegian vessel registered in the Bahamas, made its second call at the Port of Mombasa with 962 passengers on board. It was on its way from Zanzibar to Seychelles. This is the fourth cruise ship since the start of the season in September last year. Since the 2007/8 post-election violence, followed by terror-related attacks between 2012 and 2015, Kenya’s tourism sector has resiliently been facing the brunt of travel advisories and cancellation of charter flights. Since September last year, the tourism sector has received a pleasing number of international guests arriving onboard cruise ships, international scheduled flights and charter flights. Read: Cruise terminal set for October 2018 completion The Kenyan Coast has received an unprecedented number of international arrivals. Approximately 2,791 tourists have arrived by cruise ship since October, according to data collected from the fours ships that docked at the port. MS Nautica was first in the country on November 25 with 642 passengers from the Marshall Islands in the North Pacific Ocean heading to Zanzibar. Sam Ikwaye, Coast executive director of the Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers, told The Star the arrival of these cruise ships signalled confidence in the destination. “We are upbeat that 2018 will be a positive year for the tourism sector. The cruise ships have really helped the sector grow for the past few months,” Ikwaye said. He said the United States of America is expected to start direct flights to Kenya this year. Related: Mombasa is also expected to host the Skal International Congress on October at Pride Inn Hotel. Other cruise ships that have docked at the port this season include; the Omani luxury cruise ship christened Fulk Al Salamah (ship of peace) on October 23 and the well known MS Silver Spirit on December 21. The Omani ship had 350 passengers on board and MS Silver Spirit had 472 tourists and 365 crew members when they docked. Hajj Masemo, Kenya Ports Authority senior corporate communication officer, said more cruise ships will arrive before the end of the season in March. “MS Silver is expected again at the end of this month. This is good news for the sector and a show of confidence in this region,” Masemo said. KPA is expected to finish the construction of the Sh450 million modern cruise terminal by March. This world-class cruise terminal will allow simultaneous berthing of two Oasis-class cruise ship, which is the world largest passenger ships. The new terminal will have modern security features, an immigration centre, a hotel and accommodation facility and other social amenities. Mombasa Trade executive Fawz Rashid said they are glad the region has continued to receive more international guest every month since October last year. “We are very happy that the region has become a destination of choice. We are so glad and we welcome tourists to come and sample what Mombasa has to offer,” he said. Also read: More cruise ships call at Mombasa, KPA says terminal works will be done by July 2018 Click here for the latest political news 