Watching their prized players cross borders for free has become unbearable for Gor Mahia and hence the Kenya Premier Legaue champions have warned Albanian side FK Tirana of using unprofessional means to sign players from the club. Gor have warned the Albanian outfit of a possible tussle pitting them and world’s football governing body, Fifa for allegedly luring Kenneth Muguna and Musa Mohammed without following the right procedures and raising the required fees. Tirana, under the tutelage of former Gor Mahia coach Jose Ferreira, are claimed to have acquired the services of 2016 Kenyan Premier League Most Valuable Player (MVP) Kenneth Muguna for a unspecified contract spell. In retaliation, Gor claimed that Muguna had two years left on his contract and his move to Albania had not been approved by the club. K’ogalo accused Tirana of failing to pay the development and transfer fees as well as failing to secure Muguna’s release letter. K’ogalo’s chief executive officer, Lodvick Aduda, accused the European side of evading the right procedures stipulated by Fifa in acquiring the signatures of players. “I can confirm that Tirana had approached us in regard to signing Muguna but did not raise the development and transfer fees as required by Fifa. As a licensed Fifa player transfer agent, I want to warn Tirana of the impending tussle which will involve the world’s governing body. They have not acquired the release letter from us hence can not claim the player belongs to them,” said Aduda.  On the case of Mohammed who sought permission to attend trials in Albania, Aduda warned the player against signing a contract with a foreign club without the blessings of his boyhood club. Musa, who skippered Kenya in recapturing the Cecafa Senior Challenge last month, was rumoured to have inked a contract with Tirana. Aduda said the procedures of signing the player, whose contract was due to end in two weeks, were not followed. “Musa sought permission to go for trials and his contract was to expire in two weeks. If they want his services, let them come and try to reach an agreement. The two remain our players until all the professional procedures of signing players are met. I also want to warn Kenyan players to be careful when signing contracts with clubs outside the Kenyan borders.”  South ‘B’ United, a grassroot club which features in the Koth Biro tournament, took to social media platforms to wish Musa the best of luck at his new club. The latter had guided South ‘B’ to the finals of the tournament. Muguna alongside George Odhiambo, Godfrey Walusimbi and Jacques Tuyisenge had been in Ze Maria’s wish list for long and the omission of Muguna from Gor Mahia’s newly released jersey numbers signaled of a complete move to Tirana.Muguna had his shirt number(10) given to new signing Cercidy Okeyo in the recently released shirt numbers.