Cryptocurrency to most people and institutions in Africa is a daunting word. It means change, and a lot of people are not ready for this change. The truth is, ready or not, this change has come and the opportunity to take charge of our own destiny has been presented to us. The question now is not about cryptocurrency, but what are we going to do to harness the full power of this Let me first define the term: It is a digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange, using cryptography to secure transactions, and to control creation of additional units of the currency. Cryptocurrencies are classified as a subset of digital currencies and are also classified as a subset of alternative currencies and virtual currencies. Bitcoin became the first decentralised cryptocurrency in 2009. It is important to note that Bitcoin is just one form of cryptocurrency that is available to the world at the moment. There are over 100 cryptocurrencies (Litecoin, RXP, Clubcoin, Iota etc) that are trading for various values, and solving various problems all over the world at the moment. Africa is missing out on the game once more because we are trying to figure out how to keep what we already have rather than think of how we can adopt new solutions, and also protect consumers. Blockchain is another important concept that needs to be defined. Blockchain is a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, which are linked and secured using cryptography. Each block typically contains a hash pointer as a link to a previous block, a timestamp and transaction data. By design, blockchains are inherently resistant to modification of the data. In Africa, we have numerous problems of trade and movement of money because of borders that were created for us by the colonial masters and that still guides our ability to trade or move money around today. You will find that a lot of our policies or laws date back to the 60s, 70s and 80s. According to the Afrexim bank and other international institutions for us to grow as a continent we must trade amongst ourselves consistently. We must navigate the problems of movement of money and bring the unbanked people in our countries into an ecosystem that is easy, and accessible immediately. Blockchain technology helps us solve some of these problems by providing smart contracts, security data solution, cryptocurrency and much more. Inflation is a huge problem in Africa and as we can see, some countries struggle with managing the inflation rate on their fiat currencies, like South Sudan which has an inflation rate of over 280%. Over the past 12 months, the African market has seen emergence of more than 15 Bitcoin exchanges seeking to provide cheap and efficient trading services to African consumers. Some exchanges have expanded their services and have established an office in Africa to serve the new market and observe the demand of Bitcoin in several African countries. In East Africa, local innovators have introduced cryptocurrency systems to support cross-border transactions, as exemplified by initiatives like BitPesa. In South Africa, cryptocurrencies are becoming particularly popular. In Nigeria, local traders and activists believe this new money presents an opportunity to democratise the economy because they have been failed by conventional money. The Central Bank of Nigeria, which oversees an inflation rate of 12-14%, making it one of the highest inflation rate in the world, recently announced that they cannot stop Bitcoin. Their statement read: “Central Bank cannot control or regulate bitcoin. Central Bank cannot control or regulate blockchain. Just the same way no one is going to control or regulate the Internet. We don’t own it.” This is a very sensible and correct and forward-looking approach. The intangible nature of digital currencies means that a government cannot physically remove the wealth of a citizen. This paradigm shift is a monumental step forward in the social contract, providing an additional layer of security to individuals. For the first time open minded early adopters, and innovators in Africa can change the game, and begin to create value for us in this continent. Nurucoin(nurucoin.com) is one of those type of currencies that is aiming to ease the payment problems in continental trade as well as bring the unbanked into an ecosystem of trading cross border without the problems of the middleman. African entrepreneurs must embrace digital currencies, and find ways to make sure we own our future rather than having some one else come into this continent once more to give us food. We need more nurucoins, we need more sureremit and other types of African cryptocurrencies that will drive growth in our economy. Not owning or embracing cryptocurrency, and blockchain technology is so much more riskier than sitting on the fence as we are currently doing as a continent. And finally my greatest hope is that one of our smart entrepreneurs can also create an African chain with rules, and guidelines that meet our needs just like ethereum, stellar, Ripple or even Bitcoin blockchain. Why can’t we do this? I will leave you with that question for now. The writer is a Blockchain evangelist