Nominated MP and Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has chided the Teachers’ Service Commission over his sacking as a teacher. Sossion yesterday told the Star the TSC cannot purport to have sacked him when he is not a member of the commission. “I have not been sacked, I left in 2001. I am not an employee of the TSC. Labour CS Phyllis Kandie tried it and failed,” he said. The MP said the only thing he is currently receiving is a pension and nothing more. Read : I will not resign from KNUT, Sossion says in response to vacate notice This comes after TSC boss Nancy Macharia wrote to the MP a termination letter indicating his name had been removed from the commission’s payroll. This means Sossion will no longer be recognised as a public school teacher. Bomet mp axed His Emuhaya counterpart and Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba and Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui, who serves as Kuppet’s assistant treasurer, have also been axed. In a sacking letter by Macharia and signed by JM Maundu on January 15, the TSC claims Sossion ought to have officially resigned after he accepted his nomination as an M “Regulation 187 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of the Code of Regulations for Teachers requires teachers released to trade unions to resign or retire from service once they opt to vie for political office,” read part of the letter. It said, “It has been noted you were nominated as a MP yet the commission has not received your resignation or retirement letter”. Also read : Sossion, 10 others to lose union jobs in new directive Macharia in the letter said TSC had decided to terminate Sossion’s services as a teacher with effect from January 15, 2018. She said the commission took the move after Sossion defied a termination from the teaching service notice sent to him on December 14, 2017. Retain pension But Sossion said union leaders are normally released by the commission but retain their pension and, if they so wish to go back to teaching, can do so. “I will continue to serve the union. This is politics. Knut is not a department of TSC,” He said. Sossion has been at loggerheads with the TSC and Labour ministry with Kandie demanding he relinquishes his Knut leadership. Kandie in December last year issued a gazette notice directing all union officials who had made it to political offices to vacate office. But Sossion vowed he will not resign and succumb to the government’s intimidation. “I’m not relinquishing my position. I should go where? I’m here to stay” he said. Click here for the latest political news