Four Bungoma MCAs stormed Friend’s School Kamusinga yesterday and ejected the new principal. Principal Alex Maina was later escorted back by police. The MCAs said Maina was transferred from an underperforming school and would lower standards at Kamusinga. Maina was posted to the school this term, taking over from Edwin Namachanja, who has been at the school since 2010. Friends School Kamusinga is a national school. MCAs Luke Opwora, Aggrey Mulongo, Elvis Abuka and Stephen Wafula stormed the school when students were in class. They ejected Maina, then locked the principal’s doors with padlocks. “I warned you from the beginning we will not allow failures in this school and you thought it was a joke. Get out!” MCA Mulongo said. Reporters were present, witnessed the ejection and heard the MCAs speak. Maina was heard telling the MCAs to give him time to finish speaking with the parents who were in the office. COPS CALL ACTION ILLEGAL  Opwora ordered Maina out. “Don’t force us to call our boys to eject you. Get out respectfully or we will take another action,” the MCA said. The MCAs escorted Maina out of the gate before police came to his rescue. The police told the MCAs what they were doing was illegal, but the ward representatives said there was nothing wrong with their actions. Police escorted principal Maina back to the office and cut the padlocks. Speaking to the press outside the school, Opwora said, “We will not allow failures in the only pride we have in our county. The national government should bring another principal from a school with a similar mean score with Kamusinga’s. Not this failure.” Kamusinga has been recording high mean scores for 15 years. Maina was transferred from Olo Leisser School in Narok county. Its mean score has been lower than Kamusinga’s. Maina refused to speak to the press. This comes days after Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati warned he will not allow new principals who had been posted to the county to take over. On Monday, Wangamati said he will not accept newcomers. Wangamati asked Education CS Fred Matiang’i and the Teachers Service Commission to rescind the decision on mass transfers as it will hurt performance. “We will not accept a principal with a mean of 5.9 at a school with a mean score of nine and above. That’s trying to bring down our schools,” he said. Wangamati said principals should leave. 