President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday demoted seven Cabinet Secretaries in a radical purge and deployed them to head a number of Kenyan embassies. The President lived up to the promise he made on January 5 that he would “populate the government” with those charged with the responsibility of executing his agenda for the next five years. “As I mentioned two weeks ago, I am still in the process of finalising the Cabinet and restructuring the government. Today, I have a few names,” Uhuru said at State House, Nairobi, in a televised press conference. seven ministers axed Former Mining Cabinet Secretary Dan Kazungu leaves for Tanzania as the new High Commissioner. In the Petroleum and Mining ministry, he will be replaced by John Munyes, who faces vetting by Parliament. Former vocal Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi heads to the Permanent Mission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Paris. Kaimenyi will be replaced by veteran journalist Farida Karoney at the Lands docket. Former Labour CS Phyllis Kandie has been appointed as the Ambassador to Belgium, Luxembourg and the Europen Union. Her place will be taken by former Marsabit Governor Ukur Yattani. “As I said in the beginning, I will continue to update fellow Kenyans as we proceed with the normal process of forming the government that serves the interests of all Kenyans,” Uhuru said. Former Environment CS Judi Wakhungu head to France and her docket has been inherited by Keriako Tobiko. Wakhungu, who implemented the ban on plastics, will be the new Ambassador to the EU country. Former Sports Cabinet Secretary Hassan Wario will represent Kenya in Austria as ambassador. Rashid Mohammed takes over the Sports and Heritage docket. Cleopa Mailu steps down as the Health ministry boss. He has been nominated to the Permanent Mission of the United Nations in Geneva. His former colleague in the Public Service docket Sicily Kariuki takes over the Health docket. Former Agriculture CS Willy Bett leaves the country to India as High Commissioner and his docket has been inherited by former Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. Big four agenda In the latest announcement, some Cabinet Secretaries survived the purge, but have been shuffled to other ministries. The President also created new positions in the ministries. “For the efficient operation of the government, and, indeed, taking into acount the need to have a government that reflects the diversity of our nation and helps deliver on my mandate, which I pledged to Kenyans during the campaign period, I have decided to establish a new position in government of Chief Administrative Secretary in all our ministries to help the Cabinet Secretaries coordinate the affairs of their respective ministries,” Uhuru said. The President believes the new team will help him achieve the Big Four agenda — expand food production and supply, provide universal health coverage for all, create at least one million jobs, and build 500,000 affordable houses.