Jubilee leaders in the city want to reconcile Governor Mike Sonko and Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. This comes as the city MCAs ruled out impeaching Sonko over the dramatic resignation of Igathe last Friday. Igathe quit over what he called his failure to earn Sonko’s trust. The resignation is effective at the end of the month. Leading the JP arbitration team are Nairobi chairman Sanctus Ndegwa, Senator Johnson Sakaja and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. Yesterday, Ndegwa said MPs are talking and expressed optimism that Igathe would withdraw his resignation. “Yes, we are talking and we hope to work together again,” he told the Star on the phone.  meeting failed to take place However, Jubilee MCAs failed to meet yesterday to discuss how to reconcile the two leaders; the reasons were unclear. Some NASA lawmakers told the Star that Jubilee MPs were plotting to impeach Sonko over his differences with Igathe, when the county assembly resumes from recess next month. “They are planning to impeach him [Sonko] and the motion may be brought as soon as we resume,” Nairobi West MCA Maurice Gari said. But majority leader Abdi Guyo dismissed the claims. “That is rubbish. There is nothing like that. What has the governor done to warrant impeachment?” he asked. Jubilee stalwart and nominated MP Maina Kamanda asked why Sonko should be impeached and criticised Igathe for “premature” resignation.  should have persevered “This young man should have persevered. Nothing comes easy,” he said. “These [young] people are good but there are a lot of qualities they lack. Everybody saw how [Mwai] Kibaki suffered when he was the Vice President of Moi. But he persevered.” He said the governor, who is only five months into office, cannot be impeached, because he is still assembling his team to deliver his promises. Majority chief whip Mwaura Chege and his minority counterpart Peter Imwatok also denied the impeachment claims. County assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi confirmed receiving Igathe’s resignation letter. She said she had not met the two leaders as she has been in Naivasha at a workshop. “Let’s look at the bigger picture. Trust is important but what brings trust is understanding,” the speaker said. Sources told the Star Sonko and Igathe broke up after the governor blocked attempts by his deputy to run City Hall. Igathe, who resigned from Vivo Energy to be Sonko’s running mate, was expected to run-the-show and represent State House. Sonko has been viewing his deputy as a State House project and has been stamping his authority as the duly elected governor. Sonko has also blocked former State House official Peter Kariuki from becoming the county secretary.