A board has accused the Water ministry of procurement irregularities and failure to follow due procedures. Details of the procurement mess emerged after the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board annulled the irregular termination of tenders for the construction of some two water pans and dams in Wajir and Machakos counties. With its decisions ignored, the board is now flexing its muscles and has ordered the ministry to file a report showing compliance with its orders by February 9. due process ignored In the ruling last week, the board, headed by lawyer Paul Gicheru, indicted the ministry for disregarding its decisions and awarding tenders without regard to due process. The Board cited at least three cases in which the ministry has blatantly disregarded its decision, putting the accounting officer on the spot. “It’s a matter of law and practice that a procuring entity must obey all the lawful orders issued by the board or a court of law. It’s not, therefore, open to a procuring entity to decide whether it will obey the orders issued by the board,” the PPARB said. Kiptoon Segor is currently the Principal Secretary in the State Department of Water. His future, however, hangs in the balance after he failed to make it to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Friday lineup, with the Head of State saying the position will be announced later. In the decision delivered on January 24, the board also warned against an increasing pattern of government agencies arbitrarily terminating procurement processes and readvertising and awarding tenders. 1,200 bids for 74 dams In the present case, the ministry invited bids for the construction of 74 water pans and dams across the country on August 29, 2016. More than 1,200 bids were received. But just one month after the tendering closed on September 12 last year, the ministry terminated the tenders and readvertised them on December 21. The Review Board faulted the ministry for failing to prepare letters of notification to the bidders and stating why it terminated the tender. “A perusal of the said cancelled advertisement shows that the same was not addressed to any bidders. The same did not state the procurement processes at issue were being terminated and, more importantly, the same did not give any reason why the tender was being terminated,” the board stated. It has warned government officials that they will be personally held responsible for arbitrary tender terminations. “The persons involved stand the danger of being personally directed to bear any costs and expenses arising from the readvertised tender and those of any proceedings instituted to challenge the termination process, and being liable for prosecution,” the board cautioned. The case was filed by Maalin Trading Company Limited, which applied for construction of two of the 74 water pans. The Board agreed with the firm that termination of the original tender was irregular and ordered the ministry to complete the procurement from the initial bids within 14 days.