IIn my native language there is saying that “Ntuku ikabua ionekaanaga rukiri”, which means, “A successful day is known in the morning.” There is every worry as to whether this year will be kind enough to Kenyans, the reason being, to most Kenyans, it has started on the wrong footing. One of the most glaring issues is that many students have not joined Form One, largely for lack of fees. No parent would wish to keep a child at home, especially now that everyone knows education is the surest way to get one out of poverty. This, to some extent, guarantees the well-being of the people as clearly captured in the 2010 Constitution. That is why it provides for the right to quality basic education. Those who travelled upcountry over the festive season will agree that, based on a prime facie case the economy is not doing well. It might be doing well on paper through statistics that are often quoted by government officials and forced down tour throats but Wanjiku is going through tough times. The government should escalate the war on poverty like never before. The only way to boost the citizenrys morale to work and prosper this country is through economic empowerment. In rural areas the boda boda business is on the rise. Parents are willing to sell their cattle or their land to buy their teenage sons motorcyles. Most school dropouts are now in this industry. This trend should worry the authorities and virtually everyone concerned with the state of affairs in those regions. Although the business is helping the operators and the clients, it is also negatively affecting this very community. There have been reported cases of increased pregnancy among teenage girls in these areas. Deaths from boda boda accidents are also on the rise. In fact, there are hospitals that have special wards that deal with victims of these accidents. Most of these operators have not undergone any driving or riding training, and they thus don’t understand the value of human life and this partly explains their carelessness on the roads. Training is a matter of a single day by their fellow riders and the next day they are carrying clients. Joblessness remains the biggest challenge to most African governments. Kenya has had its fair share of an idle and learned population. Gangsters are now robbing people in the Nairobi CBD in broad daylight. Our city leaders seem to run out of ideas in fixing this, among other problems such as garbage collection, congestion, and water shortage. These are the very problems they promised to solve ahead of last year’s election. But you will often see them in most functions dressed in designer suits, while their people continue to wallow in abject poverty and an unfavourable working environment. Leadership is about having a sense of ethical commitment to the people you lead. Murder incidences seem to be on the rise. Resulting from love triangles to domestic violence to security guards ‘irresponsibility. We seem to have abdicated the realisation that life is sacrosanct. People are no longer empathetic. A while ago, I pointed out that we, the Kenyan people, don’t love each other. We can barely engage in logical reasoning before acting. We can easily hack someone to death before getting to hear their side of the story. Are we becoming Zombies of some sort? The alleged rape cases at the Kenyatta National Hospital are another high voltage shame that characterised the false start of the year. The allegations have brought to the fore the mismanagement of public institutions. The management of KNH shouldn’t have brusquely denied the allegations. They should have first called for investigations to substantiate the allegations. Internationally, US President Donald Trump’s racist comments that are said to have targeted Haiti, El Salvador and African countries are aimed at rekindling racial tensions. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres recently acknowledged that “Hate is on the rise, Nazi symbols mindsets and language are back. Today at Park East synagogue, I met Holocaust survivors and called for vigilance against anti-Semitism and discrimination of all kinds.” These recent developments suggest reversal of fortunes. The world has come a long way to slide back to that fateful dark moment. Clearly, the year has not started well. Some of these worrisome occurrences are clear manifestation of bad leadership. The world is the way it is today due to men and women who have had the opportunity to be in leadership but not done what they are supposed to do. Our leaders, whether elected or serving in constitutional commissions, must come out and demonstrate leadership. If and when they do that, it’s not too late to get the year right.