The government yesterday withdrew police bodyguards of some National Super Alliance leaders. Contacted by the Star, the affected politicians said the officers were disarmed and asked to report back to GSU headquarters. Those who did not get to the headquarter in time were picked up by police vehicles. ODM chairman John Mbadi said, “Mine was the first to be recalled yesterday. A few minutes later they recalled security officers attached to Siaya Senator James Orengo and Mbita North MP Millie Odhiambo.” “We won’t bow down to intimidation, and we will not recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as Kenya’s President.” Picked up at 4am Mbadi said the officers were asked “to respond to an emergency at the headquarters immediately”. “My security guard was told to report to GSU headquarters urgently, but when he delayed, he was picked up at 4am,” Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi told the Star. The leaders told the Star manipulation of the National Police Service to serve the interests of the Jubilee administration will not change their ideological stand to push for equality, respect, good governance and electoral justice. “We are not afraid and we are not bothered as long as the interests of Kenyans come first,” Mbadi said. “If anything happens to me, Inspector General Joseph Boinnet will be held responsible,” Wandayi said. Uhuru isn’t our president Those affected include governors, senators, Woman Reps and Members of Parliament. A majority declined to be named. “We don’t care much about security since our role as leaders is to serve Kenyans,” Mbadi said. As the Minority leader, Mbadi said he was promised three more security officers, but the only one he had was taken yesterday. He said his predecessor had five. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said NASA will not be intimidated because it has refused to recognise Uhuru’s presidency. “I have never requested for security officers because I do not recognise Uhuru’s government. In fact, God is my security,” he said. Alego MP Sam Atandi said leaders whose security was withdrawn, are seen as being in the forefront in pushing Raila’s agenda.