Private vehicles which carry passengers and have not complied with the National Transport and Safety Authority regulations have been banned in Kirinyaga county. Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri said no vehicle will be allowed on the road without complying with the rules and regulations. Speaking at the close of a two-day drivers seminar in Kerugoya town yesterday, Ndambiri said the private vehicles have been converted into PSVs yet they have not complied with traffic rules. The deputy governor said the county government supports fair and genuine businesses and will not allow private vehicles to fight the legitimate trade of matatus. Local traffic officers have been notified to impound vehicles flouting traffic laws and operating as PSVs. The private vehicles have taken over all routes and carry excess passengers.  ROAD CARNAGE Ndambiri added that boda boda operators are flouting the traffic rules. He urged the police not to relent as many people are dying in road accidents. In December last year, individuals who operate their private cars as PSVs were warned that they would be prosecuted. NTSA director general Francis Meja said officers will work closely with traffic police to arrest the offenders. “We are also working with the Public Service Vehicles that operate within the law to help us identify the culprits,” he said. The owners of private vehicles operating illegally line up in the CBD to cash in on passengers travelling upcountry. Meja said these will be charged. “Everyone must obey traffic rules,” he added.  deaths Statistics from the NTSA show 2,605 people died on Kenyan roads in 2017, compared to 2,722 in 2016. This was according to comparative statistics as at December 5. According to the NTSA, 981 pedestrians perished in 2017, compared to 1,018 in 2016, while 286 drivers died in 2017, compared to 323 in 2016. Six hundred and twenty-three passengers died, compared to 648 in 2016. Some 206 pillion passengers perished, compared to 201 in 2016. Fifty-three pedal cyclists died compared to 68 in 2016. Meja condemned an incident in which boda boda operators torched a Nairobi-bound bus whose driver they accused of hitting one of their own. The attack, under investigation by the police, was an act of hooliganism. “That is a security issue and police are following up,” Meja said. The bus had stopped at a petrol station to drop a passenger when a boda boda operator rammed into it from behind.