Negotiation of the 2017-22 Collective Bargaining Agreement between the Inter-Public Universities Councils Consultative Forum and unions representing university staff was launched yesterday. The parties will meet next week on Wednesday to table the agenda of the negotiations with the final date set for January 31. The launch will give a go-ahead for individual unions to start negotiations. University Academic Staff Union is set to hold talks from Wednesday next week, Kenya University Staff Union on Friday and the Kenya Union of Domestic, Hotels, Education Institutions, Hospitals and Allied workers on Thursday. A return-to-work formula was reached by IPUCCF and the unions on December 9 when lecturers in public universities called off a month-long strike. The negotiations for the 2017-22 CBA were to take place between December 18 and January 31. However the talks were postponed twice. UASU secretary general Constantine Wasonga said top agenda in the negotiations will be to harmonise the salaries in universities. The union will further push for structured pay increment. “We want the salaries to be in line with job groups to end the discrepancies in salaries. In some universities you will find some junior lecturers earning as much as a Professor and in others its the reverse,” Wasonga said. He further called for government goodwill in the negotiations, saying the union does not want to disrupt studies in universities as previously witnessed. “This time let’s do things differently. Let’s make sure we complete negotiations within the set timelines,” Wasonga said.  Warning The union warned against the proposal by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to have academic staff in universities hired on contract. He said this was against the structures guiding employment in Labour Laws and would be a recipe of collapsing higher education as many would leave the profession. “University staff are not desperate people, they are well educated. I hope that was a light comment by the Education CS because actualising it will sink the sector,” he said.