When NASA demands talks to secure electoral justice, it isn’t a self-absolving prerequisite that lacks merit. It isn’t that NASA lost an election and wants to mollify its supporters by engaging in diversionary political skirmishes with Jubilee. The stipulation for electoral justice is welded on the architecture that encompasses comprehensive reform of the IEBC, insulating security agencies from politics, independence of the Judiciary, securing devolution and securing a just system of government. Anyone with a conscience will admit Kenya is boiling with anger, frustration and a sense of betrayal over the August 8 and October 26 presidential elections. It’s the reason for the violence when opposition supporters poured into Nairobi eager to welcome and swear-in Raila Odinga, whom they consider the legitimate President, from abroad on November 17, and the reason the state used security forces to clobber them silly and kill some in a show of might. We have a country where 70 per cent voters turned their backs on a “legally elected” President. Illegitimacy dodges President Uhuru’s second term and dialogue will benefit him. Apart from the boycott of the October election, his political legitimacy stumbles on abuse of office, political misuse of the intelligence agency and excessive force against unarmed civilians. That bitter bile remains potent, the reason NASA wants reform in the security sector. That Uhuru desired to meddle in police operations was obvious in the contentious security amendments laws passed by a compliant Parliament in 2014. Courts struck out some unconstitutional clauses that gave the President unfettered latitude on appointments. But the residue is telling; what the courts struck out is sequestered in the recruitment and appointments regulations bolstering the National Police Service Commission Act. Hence, the President is an active decision-maker in police operations across the board. When he removed three heads from the National Police Service and appointed others in acting capacity, he generously quoted a convoluted law, Regulation 26 of the NPSC Act on Recruitment and Appointments Regulations 2015. The Constitution doesn’t envisage or intend such a meddlesome incursion by the Executive into the operations of security agencies. It indeed creates an independent NPSC to manage police affairs. But via regulations, the NPSC is a cannibalised bystander waiting for Executive cues to act. Predictably, the NPSC advertised the same positions already filled by the President “acting upon advice from the National Police Service Commission and in consultation with the Inspector General”. The reaction by the NPSC points to fundamental flaws in Uhuru’s action: Did he act legally? Could the NPSC really advise him to remove from office and appoint persons in acting capacity pending its advertising the same positions? Will the NPSC countermand Uhuru’s appointees after “advising” him to appoint them? Why then spend public resources to confirm Uhuru’s appointees? Obviously this is another PR ruse to sanitise possible illegalities by Uhuru. Why was it necessary that Uhuru make the announcement? It appears the three officers were actually sacked and excessive deployment of presidential veneer was meant to forestall their refusal to vacate office or contest their sacking. The motivation to advertise the positions is made eminently clear upon observation that the purported presidential authority under Article 132 ( 2 ) and section 17 of the National Police Service Act aren’t backed by express constitutional power for the President to make such appointments. Article 132 ( 2 ) details whom the President can nominate, appoint and dismiss. It doesn’t mention the DIG. It ambiguously says the President “may dismiss any other state or public officer whom this Constitution requires or empowers the President to appoint or dismiss”. The same Constitution doesn’t empower the President to appoint or dismiss a DIG. Section 17 of the NPS Act does give the President power to “remove, retire or redeploy a Deputy Inspector-General at any time before the Deputy-Inspector General attains the age of retirement”. However, the section is unconstitutional to the extent that its application as required by Article 132( 2 ) (f) is untraceable in the Constitution. It’s also remarkable that the announcement chose to ignore the values and principles set out under Articles 10 and 27 as required by Article 132( 2 ) (f).   Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,