Despite the anti-FGM law enacted in 2012, most girls in West Pokot are still forced to undergo the outdated cultural practice. Once cut, majority are married off at a tender age while those who escape the knife and early marriage face the problem of lack of sanitary towels to keep them in schools. Read: Marakwet elders back doctor over legalising FGM Also read: 'It's our right': Marakwet professionals support case to legalise FGM The Star visited Kamketo Girls' Secondary School in North Pokot where girls who have escaped early forced marriage are admitted to pursue their education. At the school is a 13-year-old who has just been admitted to form one. She says she trekked more than 200 kilometres to the school after her father tried to marry her off due to inability to raise her form one fees. “One evening, 10 men came and carried me away to the home of 'my husband' who is the same age as my father. My neighbours alerted the chief and I was rescued immediately. My father and the men were arrested and released on cash bail." The man then threatened his daughter forcing her to run away from home. “I decided to seek refuge here after learning that the school accommodates girls even without school fees,” she said. Four other girls were rescued by villages three years ago. One says “I cannot concentrate on my studies since my biggest fear is that after school I will have nowhere to go." The girls said they share personal effects in order to remain in school. The school has more than 30 rescued girls whose biggest challenge is lack of basic needs. Principal Mary Raswei said they decided to accommodate the girls since had nowhere to go. “We can only empower women and girls through education,” she noted, but added the learners lack items such as sanitary towels. She asked well-wishers to help. West Pokot deputy speaker Francis Krop,, who is Kasei ward representative, said he has rescued 11 girls from forced marriage this year. “I am unable to meet for their personal expenses and school fees. I need support to ensure the girls complete their education,” he said. Kacheliba MP Mark Lomunokol said he had set aside funds to help the girls further their education. “Many girls know their rights now and that’s why they are running away from outdated cultural practices. We need many stakeholders on board to help them realise their dreams." He urged chiefs appealed to both local chiefs and churches to take a lead role and report those cases of young children being married off at an early age. Last week, Canadian high commissioner to Kenya Sara Hradecky toured the county and promised to ensure girls and women from the community are empowered. Hradecky said the Canadian government was interested in ensuring the girls are protected from early forced marriages and FGM. "We shall collaborate with NGOs in this region to ensure women and girls are empowered." Click here for the latest politcal news