Kijiji is a smouldering wasteland where dazed survivors just stare or pick through twisted metal that once was their home. After fire swept through the Lang’ata slum yesterday morning, four bodies were found. Six thousand were left homeless. Those who were not benumbed and shocked were in mourning. Some were furious. Four fire engines had difficuty accessing the congested area because easements were blocked. they carried no water because firefighters hoped to connect to pipes in the slum — but they were dry. The origin of the fire was not immediately determined but some residents said they had received threats and were ordered to move out. Some residents said the fire started in one struture and quickly spread through wood and metal shacks. Governor Mike Sonko accused the officer in charge of fire and rescue services of laxity. Survivors picked through debris. Sarah Mary, a 22-year-old single mother with a four-year-old child, lost her house. “That evening, I had a very bad toothache. So I slept early only to be woken by cries from neighbours. I got out of bed and saw a huge fire that razed many houses and was headed my way,” Mary said. The casual labourer and her child struggled through the smoke to escape. “The fire spread so fast, turning the only home I have known into flames,” she lsaid. Her neighbor Fatuma lost her life.She had two children. “She died trying to save her property from her shop. Her husband urged her to leave and by the time he could get her out, it was too late,” she said. Mary urged the government to help the thousands of homeless people. Another survivor, 24-year-old Moses Mwandiki, his wife and one-year-old child have only their radio, TV and a gas cylinder. “We do not understand how this fire started. We are in shock. Yesterday we slept outside and I don’t know where to go from here.” STARTED BY GRABBERS? Mwandiki used to pay Shs3,000 rent plus Sh500 for electricity. The plot was completely burnt. Residents said they have on several occasions received threats and notices to vacate. Some accused Jubilee and ODM parties of being behind the fire. They say politicians are trying to control land ownership. “People have been dwelling in the area since the 1970s and no one has claimed it since then. I assume the land is theirs so we can’t say whether there was foul play,area MP Nixon Korir said. Korir said a medical camp, toilet facilities and other amenities are being provided. “This is unfortunate. Last year in July a similar fire occurred in Kuwinda slum and the same issues we have witnessed with the response team have been replayed,” he said. Nairobi regional coordinator Bernard Lemparai told reporters the fire was put out at 2am but search and rescue operations were underway. “There was a lot of destruction but the critical part is how to assist people, especially women and children camping at Ngei Primary School,” He said the area has 9,000 houses for 12,000-14000 people. CALL TO HELP VICTIMS A command centre has been established at Ngei Primary School where people can report those missing. A counselling desk has also been set up. Deputy director National Disaster Management Unit’s Communication Officer Pius Masai said he does not know how many might be trapped. The office of Governor Sonko accused Peter Ngugi, the officer in charge of fire and rescue services, of laxity. Ngugi has been given 14 days to explain or be interdicted. Sonko’s letter said, “Reports indicate that you did not carry out your duties as required. Your team lacked direction and coordination, resulting in deaths and loss of property.” Click here for the latest political news