Kenya’s representatives to this year’s CAF Champions League, Gor Mahia continue their preparations for the new campaign with a friendly match against KCCA of Uganda at the Afraha Stadium this afternoon. K’Ogalo, who have been camping at Egerton University in anticipation of the duel have also named their squad for the continental assignment and assistant  coach Zedekiah Otieno is convinced they are in good condition ahead of the new campaign that begins on the February 3. Gor are also looking forward to next weekend’s Super Cup clash against eternal rivals AFC Leopards. “Our preparations are going on well. We have been working on the players’ fitness and the camp (at Egerton) was meant to help the new players bond and settle in with their teammates as we look forward to another grueling campaign,” said Otieno. The national champions start their title defence against Nakumatt before facing Equatorial Guinea opponents, Leones Vegetarianos, in the CAF Champions League preliminary round. New signings Wesley Onguso, Humphrey Mieno, Lawrence Juma, Bernard Ondiek and Charles Momanyi were all included in the K’Ogalo squad. “It’s important that the new players adapt to their surroundings very quickly but the good thing is that most of them are experienced players. Some like Onguso and Mieno at international level and they will add value to the group without a doubt,” said Zico. For the first time in a decade, Gor will be without influential defender, Musa Mohammed, who reportedly is out of contract with the club and is on his way to Albania but Zico was confident they will thrive even in his absence. “I don’t want to speculate on whether he will be with us or not for the new campaign but, obviously, Musa has done a lot of good things for the club and won a lot of titles. The most important players are those at the club and these are the individuals we are focusing on as we look to a brighter future,” he added.  Gor Mahia 2018 CAF Squad Goalkeepers: Shaban Odhoji, Fredrick Odhiambo and Boniface Oluoch Defenders: Charles Momanyi, Godfrey Walusimbi, Wellington Ochieng, Joachim Oluoch, Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango, Wesley Onguso, Midfielders: Kevin Omondi, Ernest Wendo, Humphrey Mieno, Philemon Otieno, Bernard Ondiek, Francis Kahata, Lawrence Juma, Cercidy Lumumba, Forwards: Jacques Tuyisenge, Ephrem Guikan, Meddie Kagere, Samuel Onyango, Boniface Omondi and George Odhiambo.