As I write this
article, I somehow regret why I come from the House of Mumbi, not because I
have had issues with my clansmen. No. We are headed in the wrong political
path. Those trying  to lead the
community  seems  to be covering their eyes  with their 
hands. I am a true Son of the Soil, hailing from Gituru, Ndakaini dam,
near the serene Aberdare Ranges. Wes poke with the same political voice in the
last five years. We sang UhuRuto tune twice. Uhuru Kenyatta and
William Ruto partnered URP and TNA in 2013 to form the Jubilee Coalition. In
the first term, the duo enjoyed a good and cordial working relationship.  And if their 2013 MoU is anything to go by,
Ruto was to support Uhuru for two terms and Uhuru "returns" the
favour to his deputy  by supporting  him in 2022. Ruto has kept his promise. However, if a recent
column by Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, a Jubilee legislator, is anything to
go by Central Kenya’s promise, or Uhuru’s in this case, appears shaky.    This takes me back to 1978’s succession politics.
When  Mzee Jomo Kenyatta died, many Kanu
functionaries in Central Kenya  were not
comfortable with Vice President Daniel Moi taking over. They started putting in
place barriers to block Moi from assuming the high office. The Constitution
clearly provided that if a sitting President dies, the Vice President would to
assume the Office of the President. Based on this provision, the Mt Kenya
leaders even attempted to change the Constitution. Their plans were
frustrated by the then Attorney General Charles Njonjo declined to be part of
the ploy by protest. In my view, those trying to block Ruto’s bid will be the
losers, and will find themselves playing 
on the periphery of politics from 
2023 on wards. Why so? First, Central Kenya does not at the moment a politician to inherit
Uhuru. Kibaki prepared Uhuru to become President by naming him Finance minister
and the Deputy Prime Minister.Uhuru has prepared none from his backyard.  Second, Uhuru personally trusts Ruto. He knows
they have walked the ICC journey together. He personally knows it is DP who
made it possible to win in two elections. Ruto is a great mobiliser and
charismatic campaigner .He has rallied the Rift Valley vote  bloc behind Uhuru twice. With a total of 13
counties, the vote rich region is home to more than four million  voters. When the supreme court nullified the
election of Uhuru, Ruto vigorously campaigned for his boss.Uhuru knows all
these and also cares about the peaceful coexistence of ethnic communities
living in the larger Rift Valley region. The region had been the epicentre of
ethic crashes after every election until the merging of URP and TNA in 2013.The
various communities in the region has been peaceful in the last two elections. Thanks
to the UhuRuto marriage. Third, the DP has a win-win advantage in either side
of the political divide and his interests catered for equally. You see, if Ruto
opted to join NASA in the run-up to 2017 General Election, NASA would win and
Ruto would still  be the DP to Raila. It
is time the likes of Ngunjiri to  realise
the kikuyu  community needs the DP in
2022 more  than he needs  them.