Renowned benga maestro Gabriel Omollo, commonly known as Omollo Gabby,  will be laid to rest at his Nyabeda rural home in Ugunja constituency on Saturday. The musician best-known for his hit ‘Lunchtime’ died on January 3 at the Busia County Referral Hospital. Omollo was first taken to a health facility in Ugunja subcounty before his complications worsened and he was later transferred to Busia. Omollo was 79 years old. He was a household name in benga music.Funeral committee secretary Bishop Ribanex Awitta told the Star on the phone on Friday burial preparations were complete. Awitta said the body was removed on Thursday from the Sega Cottage Hospital mortuary before a requiem mass at St Joseph’s Catholic Church, Ugunja.  electric poles He said Kenya Power, through a directive from the MD, has erected electric poles up to the home of the fallen legend. Awitta said many dignitaries, both local and from neighbouring countries, will attend the burial. Siaya Senator James Orengo and governor Cornel Rasanga have confirmed their attendance. NASA leader Raila Odinga, who is expected to attend the burial and give citations about Omollo’s past, is yet to confirm his attendance. Awitta said top officials from the Music Copyright Society of Kenya will attend. Juma Toto of Jojo Records will perform. Omollo was born in 1939 and was raised at the railway quarters of Muthurwa and later in Makongeni, Nairobi. He learnt how to play the guitar while at St Peters Claver’s Primary School where he sang in the choir.  AWARDED GOLD DISC The musician’s career took off in the 1960s when he joined Equator Sound band alongside Fadhili William, Daudi Kabaka and Nashil Pichen. In 1974, he became the first Kenyan musician to be awarded an international gold disc after selling 150,000 copies of his ‘Lunchtime’ single. Friend Meshack Kobul eulogised Omollo as a “humble and dedicated musician with unrivaled talent”. “Omollo was a humble mzee whose music was carefully drafted with educative massages,” he said. “He could not be compared to some of the arrogant Benga musicians of the old days who thrived on composing music that vilified their colleagues.” Ugunja MCA Peter Odero said Omollo was progressive.    