The ''Zeitgeist'' of a time is its defining spirit or its mood. Capturing the ''zeitgeist'' of the Now is not an easy thing because we are living in a dizzyingly fluid moment. Whether its President Trump's rat-a-tat Tweets or a mind boggling 625% share price advance because an erstwhile Tea Company [The Long Island Iced Tea Corp was a little-known company making non-alcoholic lemonades and ice teas] renamed itself the Long Blockchain Corp. We are living in extraordinarily fast moving times.  Paul Virilio has said 'Wealth is the hidden side of speed and speed the hidden side of wealth' and he is not wrong.  Last year economist Richard Thaler was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his contributions to behavioural economics and clearly behaviour is having an outsize influence on economics. Malcolm Gladwell defined a tipping point as "the moment of critical mass, the threshold, the boiling point". The book seeks to explain and describe the "mysterious" sociological changes that mark everyday life. Gladwell stated: "Ideas and products and messages and behaviors spread like viruses do". In late April 2017, Avocado prices doubled and reached the highest in data going back 19 years. The jump in demand in recent years has been dramatic. American per-capita consumption was 6.9 pounds in 2015, versus 3.5 pounds in 2006. My point is thatmillenials discovered the virtues of avocado, the behaviour spread like a 'virus' and boom, prices sky-rocketed. Prices have retraced some since those 2017 highs. The avocado price surge is an example of the new 21st century millennial economy but there are many other examples.  The most extreme example of this virus style [millenial] behaviour has been witnessed in the crypto-currency markets. The total market cap of all crypto-currencies has passed the $800 billion threshold and given the velocity of the move could cross the $1 trillion dollar threshold in the blink of an eye. Bitcoin ramped 1,400% higher in 2017. Ripple, which is now the second most valuable cryptocurrency, is up 14 fold in one month and 300 fold in the past year. This is unprecedented in the size of the multiplier and its velocity with regard to the history of the financial markets, ever. There are 1,550 crypto-currencies in circulation. Even Venezuela's President Nicholas Maduro has joined the party and said Venezuela will issue $5.9 billion in oil-backed cryptocurrency.  “I have ordered the emission of 100 million petros with the legal sustenance of Venezuela’s certified and legalized oil wealth,” said Maduro in a state television address. “Every petro will be equal in value to Venezuela’s oil barrel.” Strict currency controls have forced people onto the black market, on which a dollar can buy 137,000 bolivars. The country’s strongest official rate, meanwhile, is 10 bolivars per dollar. What is clear as day to me is that not all 1,550 are going to make it the other side, not by a long chalk.  Therefore, if you are playing this game, you have to be constantly sifting the signal from the noise, you have to be prepared to pivot on a dime and at this moment you need to be studying the behaviour of the ''millenial'' crowd.    