NASA leader Raila Odinga lived up to his vow to take a solitary oath as the People’s President, braving attempts by the government to suppress live coverage of the event. The highlight of the day was not the state's repression of the media or Raila's triumphant entry at the brief oath-taking ceremony but the loud absence of running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, and his co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula who chickened out of the much publicised event. The ceremony at Uhuru Park was attended by a capacity crowd of jubilant supporters estimated at not less than 15,000. But soon after the ceremony, dismissed by critics as inconsequential, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i outlawed the National Resistance Movement (NRM). Read : News bosses differ over Uhuru threat on Raila's swearing in coverage In a Gazette Notice, Dr Matiang’i declared NRM as an organised criminal group under the Prevention of Organised Crimes Act, 2010. Kalonzo’s absence was the more pronounced as he had sworn several times that he would be sworn in with Raila as his running mate. His last pronouncement was on Saturday in Homa Bay. “Let us call a spade a spade. They are cowards,” Miguna Miguna said yesterday. But Raila was polite, saying his deputy would be sworn in at a later date and could not make it for reasons that would be known. “As you can see Kalonzo Musyoka is not here with us but he will be sworn in later. This is because of some things that happened and which you will be told later,” Raila said. But in a statement later in the afternoon, the three made no mention of the swearing-in at Uhuru Park, only saying they were unable to meet yesterday morning. “We agreed to meet again this morning. However, due to circumstances beyond our comprehension and control, the four of us did not assemble as planned. Nonetheless, the NASA Summit remains strong and united. The Summit will meet within two days, to address the immense challenges facing this country,” said the statement. The three, according to sources in NASA, had always been opposed to the function in private but in public they said the opposite. They are struggling to appease NASA supporters who are very angry, said a NASA strategist. "People are mad. They tried very hard to convince Raila to apologise on their behalf." In their meeting with Raila on Monday the three made it clear they were not keen on the event. Their efforts to convince Raila to rethink the swearing-in failed. A member of the think tank told the Star Kalonzo and Wetang'ula had developed cold feet and prevailed on Mudavadi to stand with them. Wetang’ula said they needed unanimity but since they were not united, the function should not proceed. The three co-principals met at a hotel in Riverside in the morning until 11.30am and parted ways. Mudavadi and Kalonzo retreated to their houses while Wetang'ula reportedly spent time at a members club in Upper Hill. Also read  : CA shuts down Citizen, NTV ahead of Raila swearing-in Amid claims his colleagues had been compromised, sources said there had been no breakthrough in the push for dialogue because Jubilee had reportedly insisted that NASA first recognise Uhuru as the validly elected President. A source close to the NASA co-principal, however, confirmed that the state had paid the hospital bill for Kalonzo's ailing wife in Germany, which may have softened his stance. Raila defied pressure from many quarters, including the American government, to call off the ceremony. But at exactly 2.40pm, he made a triumphant entry at Uhuru Park and straight away held up the Bible. “I do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the people and the Republic of Kenya and that I will preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of Kenya as a per the law established and all other laws of the Republic as adopted by the people of Kenya,” the opposition leader said as he declared himself the people’s President. Afterwards, he held aloft a signed oath and briefly addressed the gathering. With his swearing, Raila said the Opposition had fulfilled “our promise to the people of Kenya”. “For the first time in our history the people have gathered here in their thousands to say enough is enough to election rigging. "I want to thank the people of Kenya for their courage, patience and fortitude you have shown to the rest of the world, that a people united can never be defeated,” Raila told his supporters. The country could not watch the proceedings on their main television networks after the State took the unprecedented step of disabling the transmission of KTN, Citizen radio and TV and NTV in the morning. Undeterred, the media continued to broadcast online, where Raila’s supporters watched him take a symbolic presidential oath in a direct challenge to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The event was also transmitted live on YouTube and social media platforms by other independent entities. Raila's allies condemned the absence of his co-principals as an act of cowardice and betrayal. The list of Raila's close allies who did not attend was longer than those present. Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, Senator James Orengo and Ruaraka lawmaker Tom Kajwang were among those standing by Raila as he took his took the oath administered by Miguna Miguna. Conspicuously absent was Junet Mohamed, regarded as one of Raila's sidekicks. Speaking to the Star from Mombasa, ANC nominated MP and secretary general Godfrey Osotsi said he was surprised at the absence of his party leader Mudavadi. "If you consider how he spoke passionately in Homa Bay on Saturday, you would expected him to lead the charge to Uhuru Park, " he said. On Friday Osotsi flew from Mombasa, where he is chairing the implementation committee of the National Assembly, to Nairobi to read the so-called results from the IEBC server that claimed Raila won the election on August 8. NASA Chief Executive Norman Magaya said the co-principals had been in communication with Raila up to 2pmto persuade him not to attend the ceremony. He said the NASA chief had determined to take the oath because "the supporters believe they have been wronged and they have prescribed this as the mode of justice and he could not abandon them. "They thought by pulling out they could prevail on him not to go but he decided there was no looking back," he said. Uhuru’s victory in August was annulled by the Supreme Court over irregularities but he won a rerun, boycotted by Odinga over contentious electoral reform demands. Raila reiterated that Kenyatta was not duly elected during the rerun. Magaya revealed that Raila had defied international pressure from the United States and United Kingdom. Chanting pro-Odinga slogans and waving tree branches, many supporters who thronged the park could hardly hear what their leader said in his brief address before he left hurriedly. Police who had earlier outlawed the gathering as illegal withdrew from the park in the morning in a change of strategy. Raila’s big day yesterday begun on a low note, with little activity at his Karen home. Journalists across media houses took position at the main entrance of Mwitu estate as early as 7am, retiring to Uhuru Park later in the day without an address by Raila. They were barred from entering the compound by private security guards at the residence. Raila told KTN News in a telephone interview that his state security had been withdrawn last year. Unlike previous events that see early day marked with a beehive of activity at the NASA leader's home, yesterday there was little activity save for few passerby and estate neighbours. Journalists kept peeping into every passing car as the security guards opened the barrier with the hope that it had the NASA leader on board. Read : I haven't betrayed you, will take oath soon, Kalonzo tells supporters Not a single NASA politician was seen either getting into or out of Raila's home for the more five hours the scribes camped there. Minutes after noon, one of Raila's official cars — a black Prado, with a Nissan Wingroad in chase — passed but he was not in the cars. Later, Raila appeared at Uhuru Park from an undisclosed location sending his supporters into wild ululations. Others Raila Odinga joins a growing list of list African opposition leaders who have tried to declare themselves president when there is a sitting head of state. They include Democratic Republic of Congo’s Etienne Tshisekedi, Nigeria’s Moshood Abiola, Uganda’s Kizza Besigye and Gabon’s Jean Ping, formerly African Union Chair. In Uganda opposition leader Besigye, a perennial rival of President Yoweri Museveni, swore himself to office through a video shot from a secret location in 2016 a day before the inauguration of Mr Museveni. He was arrested and charged with treason and has been attending mentions of his trial Etienne Tshisekedi was the face of the opposition in President Mobutu Sese Seko’s Zaire, later renamed DRC under Laurent Kabila, then Joseph Kabila. Similarity between Tshisekedi and Odinga is that both were once detained without trial, both served as prime minister and both boycotted presidential elections; Tshisekedi in 2006, Raila in 2017. In November 2011, Tshisekedi vied against the son of Laurent Kabila and came second. He decided to organise his own “swearing in” and was sworn-in as president, in his home, by his Chief of Staff, Albert Moleka after an attempt to have him inaugurated at the Martyr stadium in Kinshasa failed. He was later put under house arrest. In Nigeria, Abiola declared himself president when Sani Abacha was in power. This was after he had visited many Western countries, seeking their support against Abacha’s regime. He was arrested and charged with treason and jailed for four years until 1995. In 2016 in Gabon, Opposition leader Jean Ping declared himself president and called for a recount of votes, which confirmed that the incumbent President Ali Bongo had won. However, Ping maintained that “the whole world knew that he was the president.”