Bunge la Wananchi on Wednesday moved to court seeking to stop NASA from swearing in Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. The group, in a petition filed at the Milimani law court, accused the opposition of misinterpreting Article 1 of the Constitution. They want the court to issue a declaration that NASA is in violation of the provision which states that "all sovereign power belongs to the people of Kenya." Bunge la Wananchi argues that the intended swearing in ceremony will lead to civil disobedience if allowed to take place. They claimed that NASA’s conduct risks exposing the government to unwarranted security challenges both internally and externally. "If NASA are not restrained from conducting the swearing ceremony of Raila and Kalonzo, then there would be a breakdown of the law and order." The lot further argue that this will result to consequences among them loss of lives and property. Through their lawyer Dennis Koskei, they said that NASA has continuously threatened to infringe the Constitution by adopting a pedestrian interpretation of Article 1. They also said the People's Assemblies passed by some 15 county assemblies was in violation of an existing order issued by the Kitui High court. The group asked the court to note the Kitui court had restrained the People's Assemblies that NASA intends to use to stage the swearing in. "On August 8 and October 26, 2017, Kenyans consented to exercise of its power to elected representatives who are the President, Deputy President, Governor, Deputy Governors, MPs, and Senators as enshrined in the constitution and have already taken oath of office," the petition reads in part. In an affidavit filed in court, Henry Shitanda who is the president of the group, says that their Parliament is a social justice movement which operates by way of informal Bunges - ordinarily known as People's Assemblies. Shitanda further states that their elections were conducted on December 17 where he was elected the president and other officials were also elected into office. "Pursuant to the elections, I was together with the executive members duly sworn in on December 22 last as the President of the Bunge La Mwananchi," Shitanda said. On Monday, The AG ‘s office through its lawyers also filed an petition challenging the constitutionality of the People's Assemblies. Read: AG Githu Muigai files petition against creation of People's Assembly Click here for the latest political news