Health CS Cleopa Mailu has said the ban on the use of shisha was meant to curb the spread of infectious diseases. In an affidavit filed in court supporting the ban, Mailu also said the consumption of shisha is used as a gateway to consumption of other hard drugs such as heroin. Mailu wants a case lodged against him by a group of shisha smokers and importers dismissed, saying the ban was not actuated by ill motive or biasness, but rather the need to secure Kenyans health. “The decision was based on the greater public interest of protecting and enforcing public health from harmful effects and practices associated with shisha consumption,” he said. Dr Jackson Kioko, the director of medical services, in support of the ministry’s ban, said the water-piped tobacco is harmful not only to smokers, but nonsmokers and that it affects vital organs including the brain, lungs and leads to the blockage of arteries and can cause tuberculosis. Kioko told the court shisha contains many cancer-causing agents, including carcinogens, nitrosamines, polyaromatic hydrocarbons, volatile aldehydes, benzene, heavy metals and addictive agents such as nicotine. cancer-causing According to him, other noncommunicable diseases that are brought about by shisha smoking include cancer, high blood pressure, stroke, heart attack, asthma, bronchitis as well as derangement of metabolism of fat and sugar. “From available statistics, the use of shisha has revealed acute and chronic health effects on consumers and exposed nonconsumers,” Mailu said. He said the ministry has taken steps to create awareness and educate the public on the effects of smoking shisha with a view to protect them from health. He said the manufacture, importation, distribution, sale and consumption of shisha is not licensed in Kenya so importers and promoters cannot claim violation of their rights. “The ban was purely driven by public health interest, which is the golden thread that runs through all the laws cited. None of the applicants have demonstrated that they are licensed by any regulatory authority in Kenya” he said. The court will next Monday rule on whether to lift the ban imposed by the government pending the determination of the case.