THE fight against corruption
at the once tough-talking Professor Jacob
Kaimenyi's Lands ministry seems to be a tall order, if what is being
claimed is true. Our tipster says that some three senior officials in a department
within the ministry in cahoot with a male partner from the office of a
senior official in the ministry have formed a cartel where they allegedly
attend seminars and forums every month and pocket heavy allowances as imprest. The
officers, said to be all senior, have 
also developed an appetite for wanting to get more money without
breaking a sweat by forging attendance of seminars documents for gatherings that
they never attended. The officials' high appetite for money is
disturbing some junior officers who wonder who is protecting them. ***** A little bird tells Corridors
that one former "intellectual' governor seems determined to embarrass his successor. The former county boss was seen handing out an article
from Forbes magazine about the 'Peter Principle', which states that, “in a
hierarchy, every employee tends to rise to his level of incompetence”. The
implication is that the new governor who has been in the news lately is not up to the job. ***** RESIDENTS of Nairobi's Donholm
estate are pleading with Governor Mike
Sonko and his Water CEC to intervene over lack of piped water in the area.
It is said many have been wondering why they continue to suffer yet a 'main'
water pipe for Jomo Kenyatta International Airport passes through their estate.
Lack of clean water in their homes has forced most of them to buy from water
vendors, which they say is costing them much more than what they would pay
monthly to the Nairobi Water Company. Our mole says sometime back the residents
came together and bought a pipe for water connections but they were later then
uprooted for being 'illegal'. ***** WHO could the Cabinet
Secretary spotted on Friday morning being driven on the wrong side of
University Way in Nairobi be? Pedestrians and motorist who were waiting on
traffic police to clear the jam at the University Way roundabout were
perturbed to see the top official, who should set a good example by obeying the
law, break the law. Some members of the public were overheard saying police
should be ordered to investigate the matter and forward the name of the
minister to President Uhuru Kenyatta
so that he may drop him or her as he reconstitute his Cabinet. The CS was being
driven in a dark grey Toyota Prado flying the Kenyan flag with a chase car in a
similar colour. Click here for the latest political news