The Kakamega government has opened a Comprehensive Cancer Centre and plans to hire Indian specialists to stop patients from travelling to India for treatment. The centre at the Kakamega County General Hospital is the first of its kind in the former Western Province. It started offering services a week ago. It was officially opened by Deputy Governor Philip Kutima last Thursday. Cancer patients from Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga, and Bungoma have been seeking cancer treatment in Kisumu or Eldoret. Some are referred to Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi. Kutima said the county had signed an MoU with centres of exellence in India to have specialised medical personnel treat patients in Kakamega, instead of referring them to India. SPECIALISTS ARE RARE Yesterday, a consultant at the centre, Victor Zimbulu, said the visiting doctors will include specialists in heart and kidney transplants. “We have very few specialists in these fields. The few available ones are found at either Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret or Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi,” he said. He did not say how many Indian specialists were expected. Zimbulu said it would be cheaper for patients to be treated by Indian expats in Kakamega instead of going to India. The centre will act as a referral unit for hospitals in the Western counties. Zimbulu said Kakamega lacks statistics on cancer cases, as most patients seek treatment in Kisumu, Eldoret or Nairobi. The centre will screen and provide treatment in the first and second phases of the disease, he said. CARE SERVICES TO EXPAND Cancer care will be expanded in the county once the Western Community Health Association completes another cancer centre in Lurambi subcounty this year. Construction of the Sh2.5 billion centre is funded by the community and a Swedish sponsor — Goran Hellers. Hellers said on January 18 that only one billion people in the world have adequate cancer care and Kenya is among the six billion people without adequate care. More than 45,000 cancer cases are diagnosed in Kenya every year, he said. One treatment machine should be for every 1,000 new cases, he said. “We hope to establish insurance cover for cancer patients. Cancer insurance is not expensive since if one person falls sick, there are 1,000 people to pay for treatment. We have an embryo of this plan in Ghana and this one will operate on those lines,” Hellers said. Sh3bn spent on health yearly Kutima said Kakmega spends 30 per cent of its annual budget on health. This translates into Sh3 billion yearly. Completion of the Sh6 billion Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital will transform the health sector in the Western region, he said. The first phase of the facility is to start operating in June. The referral facility will have a bed capacity of 1, 000 once complete. The county government partnered with Masinde Muliro University to establish a school of medicine to ensure availability of medical consultants for the county. “When the county governments became operational, doctors and consultants who were here started moving to their counties, forcing us to think about alternatives,” Kutima said. A committee has been tasked to acquire equipment for the referral hospital and other facilities. Kutima said the county government is also building level-four hospitals in Mumias town, Khwisero and Shinyalu subcounties in line with its policy of having a level-four facility in each of the 12 constituencies. Click here for the latest political news