The National Transport and Safety Authority has launched a new curriculum for the training and testing of drivers to ensure sanity on the roads. In a statement yesterday, Director General Francis Meja said the new system will ensure drivers are provided with sufficient education and skills. “More than 90 per cent of accidents result from human error. The curriculum has been designed to address the different needs of drivers depending on the vehicles they use,” he said. The new curriculum has been split into several modules that provide guidance for the training and testing of drivers of motorcycles, light vehicles, public service vehicles and heavy commercial vehicles. Read : Driving schools to be deregistered, Matiang'i declares as deadly accidents soar There are modules that provide requirements for those who drive for a living and for the drivers of plant and agricultural machinery. “The curriculum includes theoretical sections and examinations and practical sections and examinations.” Meja added that drivers have a high level of responsibility and their actions can influence the lives of many people, especially the drivers of PSV and HGV vehicles. “It is, therefore, important that these drivers are highly skilled and experienced.” In addition to setting the standards for the training and testing of drivers, the curriculum sets the standards for driving schools, instructors and examiners. “It is recognised that there is a need to raise the professionalism and profile of the driving industry,” he said. Meja said the supporting legislation for the curriculum makes provision for the establishment of professional bodies for drivers, instructors and examiners. “These bodies will be closely involved on future improvement and development of driving standards in Kenya in the years to come. I am grateful to the staff of the authority and all those who participated in the development and production of this curriculum.” Also read : NTSA stops issuing RSL licences after accidents All drivers and riders in Kenya have to undergo the training and must pass the test to be allowed to ride or drive a motor vehicle. There are eight modules which translate to respective categories of licences. The first four units must be done by all drivers before embarking on additional specific units to meet requirements for each module as defined in the curriculum. “The curriculum seeks to mitigate this by improving the competence and discipline of drivers by addressing the knowledge, skills and attitude gap,” Meja stated. Click here for the latest political news