The much-hyped swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga was thrown into uncertainty yesterday after the other three co-principals appeared to get cold feet. Apart from Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, other key crusaders seem to have either changed their minds or gone slow. Instead, people close to Raila told the Star yesterday that businessman Jimmy Wanjigi and combative lawyer Miguna Miguna have been left as the main divers of the swearing-in scheduled for January 30. Read: NASA's radical plan for Raila's swearing-in Despite public assurances, Raila too is reported to be re-considering the plan. It has already been postponed twice, to the dismay and anger of supporters. Among the formerly vocal champions of swearing who have gone quiet are Siaya Senator James Orengo and Johnston Muthama. Inside sources say the three co-principals have insisted on a concrete plan of action after the swearing-in. Wanjigi and Miguna have reportedly insisted that taking the oath will force President Uhuru Kenyatta and his DP William Ruto to the negotiating table. However, according to sources, although both Kenyatta and Raila have shown their willingness to talk, they are far apart on the agenda. Both Wanjigi and Miguna insist talks should only take place after Raila has been sworn in as the People’s President. Yesterday NASA leaders and a host of other leaders held crisis talks at the Karen Country Club on the fate of the wobbly coalition. This comes against a backdrop of friction and simmering discontent over the sharing of parliamentary positions. They emerged from the meeting at 4pm and left without addressing reporters. Earlier in the day, the principals met behind closed doors for close to two hours at Raila’s Capitol Hill office, without their trusted allies They were then joined by a handful of advisers who briefed them on the swearing-in plans.  WOUNDS The meeting was meant to thrash out divergent opinions on the coalition’s status and heal wounds from the sharing of positions. They also sought to forge a common stand on the swearing-in and address  Kalonzo’s Wiper Party concerns. Sources said the meeting explored pushing forward the swearing-in to build consensus. A member of the Assumption of Office Committee confided to the Star that the coalition is yet to meet the criteria set by the panel, including launching People’s Assemblies in all opposition-controlled counties. “The swearing-in was to be the culmination of a series of consultative meetings and unveiling of the People’s Assemblies in all counties. We are behind schedule and believe that we could postpone the ceremony one more time,” the member said. The Star further learnt that Kalonzo’s Wiper party had raised fresh issues that must be addressed before the oath is taken. Wiper wants one slot at the Parliamentary Service Commission. It also wants a retreat for affiliate parties to iron out differences rocking the coalition and to draw NASA’s five-year roadmap. Fired up by alleged aggressive manoeuvres by NASA affiliates to undermine them, top Wiper officials met on Sunday ad agreed on the new conditions. The meeting at a hotel along Mombasa Road was attended by Kalonzo Musyoka, chairman Kivutha Kibwana, secretary general Judith Sijeny and other top brass. Yesterday Kibwana declined to divulge details of the crucial talks. “We meet occasionally as a party to deliberate on internal and coalition issues,” the Makueni governor told the Star. A National Executive Committee official who attended the meeting told the Star Wiper members expressed exhaustion with political "shenanigans and gerrymandering" by ODM. “We had a fruitful meeting and deliberated extensively on Wiper’s place in the coalition. We evaluated recent developments that appear to be undermining other partners, particularly Wiper,”the top official and Kalonzo ally said. “It [swearing in] will amount to a waste of time unless ODM stops bulldozing and bullying Wiper,” he said. Wiper officials are said to have complained to Kalonzo of bullying by ODM in Parliament during his absence and demanded that the former Vice President takes up the problem with Raila. “We demand respect from our colleagues from ODM ,as Wiper is not a junior coalition partner," Borabu MP Ben Momanyi told the Star yesterday. But ODM terming the allegations arm-twisting by its partners in a campaign to portray it as undependable and greedy. More of this: Nothing will stop Raila swearing-in, Canaan a stone's throw away - Rasanga     DOCUMENT An internal ODM document on the parliamentary strength of the four NASA affiliates seen by the Star concludes that it has in fact donated three of its slots in Parliament to its partners. Raila's allies claim they have 98 MPs in both the Senate and the National Assembly and are entitled to 15 slots of the 23 positions available to the opposition.
           However, they have only been allocated 12. Wiper has 26 lawmakers — 23 in the National Assembly and three in the Senate — which according to ODM calculations, should only earn them the four slots they have been allocated. These include Deputy Minority leader in the National Assembly (Kathiani MP Robert Mbui) and s Senate Minority Whip held by Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni). The other two slots are a member of the Speaker's Panel and Parliamentary Accounts Committee vice chair, both held by Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi East). Musalia Mudavadi's ANC has 17 lawmakers — 14 in the National Assembly and three in the Senate. According to the ODM analysis, this makes ANC eligible for only three slots, yet they have been allocated four. These include Senate Deputy Minority Whip held by Petronila Were, a member of the Senate Speaker's Panel taken by Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and the Implementation Committee vice chair Godfrey Osotsi. The other slot is in the PSC, which  is yet to be approved but has been allocated to Vihiga Senator George Khaniri. Moses Wetangu'la's Ford Kenya  has 13 lawmakers in Parliament and, according to the ODM document, is entitled to only two slots. However, Ford Kenya has already been allocated three, including the powerful Minority leader of the Senate — Wetangu'la. “Despite ODM having 74 per cent of Senators (20-27), it holds no substantive position with Ford-K taking Minority Leader, despite having one Senator and Wiper taking Whip with three Senators,” the ODM document states. The other positions held by Ford Kenya include deputy Minority Whip in the National Assembly (Chris Wamalwa) and Labour committee vice chair (Catherine Wambilianga). “There is no reason for ODM to cede any PSC position. Any discussions should be held between ANC and Wiper as to who gets the Senate PSC slot,” the documents states. It goes on: “It is important he positions held by women are not tampered with since only one woman sits in the top eight House leadership positions.” The Wiper officials who met on Sunday resolved that ODM relinquishes one slots on the powerful PSC in an apparent trade-off for the swearing-in. Despite uproar from NASA partners, ODM last month picked outspoken Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa as its nominees to the PSC. One of the three slots reserved for the opposition coalition in Parliament was given to ANC’s George Khaniri (Vihiga Senator). The fact that Wiper held talks on the eve of a crucial meeting by NASA principals lifts the lid on the vicious intrigues rocking the coalition. Also read: We don't fear being sworn-in, Raila and Kalonzo say over January 30 oath  POSTPONED The committee, on Sunday, pushed to next week the launch of the People’s Assembly in Machakos, following opposition from some Wiper officials who wanted more time. With the clock fast first-ticking to January 30, the opposition believes there is little time left, considered the significant ground that must be covered. The swearing-in ceremony for Raila as the People’s President was initially slated for December 12 but was postponed at the last minute over what organisers said was a request by Wiper to have Kalonzo also take the oath. Kalonzo was in Germany for at least 10 weeks and only returned on December 22. His return has not fast-tracked the swearing-in. Yesterday elements in Musalia’s ANC described as “greed” demands by Wiper to have one of its MPs nominated to the PSC. Nominated MP and former ANC Secretary Osotsi said Wiper ought not complain because it had been given lucrative positions. “Wiper should understand it is always  give-and-take in coalition matters. It should stop trying to bulldoze its way every time something happens,” he said. Click here for latest political news 