Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi will soon be housed in a palatial mansion in a serene location complete with a swimming pool, servants quarter and a bar counter. The five-bedroom furnished house must be situated on one of the high-end Nairobi estates — Lavington, Kilimani, Kileleshwa, Muthangari, the Kianda area or, in the words of the Judiciary, “their alternatives”. The house must also have an external reception area, holding at least 50 people, a garage of two cars and external parking for at least six vehicles — preferably with sheds. Read: Judiciary wants Sh500 million to complete buildings  The Judiciary has kicked off a leasing process and those interested in the tender have up to January 30 to apply. A strong warning against “tenderpreneurs” has, however, been issued. “The procuring entity will reject a proposal for award if it determines that the tenderer recommended has engaged in corrupt or fraudulent practices in competing for the contract in question,” tender documents read. The documents state that the home must also have a landscaped lawn and well-kept variety of indigenous and exotic trees. “The facilities must include, but not be limited to ... at least 2.1m high boundary wall, complete with security installation that should include, but not be limited to, electric fencing, CCTV cameras, boundary and garden lighting and/or razor wire,” the documents say. Realtors eyeing the tender must also ensure their houses have elegantly designed and high quality beds — at least one bed in each of the five bedrooms and at least two seats and one table for each bedroom. In the meeting room, the house must have three large carpets covering the seating area, three TV sets and three DVD players. The proposed property must be 0.75– 1.50 acres. Yesterday, Amadi confirmed to the Star that the Judiciary plans to rent a house for her. It’s not clear, however, whether the Judiciary has acquired a home for Chief Justice David Maraga after the initial Sh310 million home in Runda was hit with a scandal. Ex-Judiciary Registrar Gladys Shollei and seven others were charged but later acquitted in procuring the house for illegal purchase. Without giving details, Amadi said the “the CJ has his own house.” 