Collapsing and cramped mud buildings, earthen floors, filthy latrines, jiggers and snakes. That’s the plight of learners at Eshianini Primary School in Butere. There are also no tablets for digital learning — President Uhuru Kenyatta’s flagship project — and the promised electricity to power them. But that’s nothing compared to the risks the 405 pupils and teachers take daily to learn. The school in Butere constituency, Kakamega county, has only one habitable building — a block housing some upper classes built in 2015 with CDF cash. The rest of the pupils and teachers operate from small, dilapidated mud-walled classrooms. Many children sit on dusty earthen floors. Desks and tables are rare. The Butere CDF office yesterday acknowledged it was aware of the situation. It said it has plans to help transform the school, but added it might take time before the problem is fixed. “The problem with Eshianini Primary School has been there for a long time, but the new office will soon allocate money to help,” CDF chairman Francis Wangatia said yesterday. snakes in classrooms Children and teachers have struggled for more than 10 years. Buildings are near collapse. The damaged mud walls are full of holes and cracks, exposing children to snakes. “We have had to kill many snakes that come from the neighbouring sugarcane farms,” head teacher Dennis Waswa said on Monday. Pit latrines are a health risk. Children are exposed to filth that can cause disease. The majority of the 405 pupils have no uniforms. Classrooms are so tiny that teachers have difficulty moving around and helping children with their lessons. Some teachers just stand by the door and stay there. near-average performance Waswa was posted to the school last year. He said he lacks resources to give the pupils a decent learning environment. Still, the school produced a near-average result in the KCPE exam. “Two of our pupils managed to get 300-and-above marks. We had a mean score of 235,” Waswa said. With better structures, we can do better, he said. He said they cannot close the school because then the children would have to travel long distances to other schools. “Most of these pupils are bright, but we can’t nurture them in such conditions. We urgently need help,” Waswa said. Some pupils walk barefoot. They have been infested with jiggers because of the dusty floors. Boys use one old mud-wall pit latrine that is almost collapsing and an external urinal with walls made of dried maize stalks. Girls share one latrine built last year by a well-wisher. teachers alternate lessons One classroom is divided into two with a makeshift board — one section serving as Standard Seven classroom and the other as Standard Five classroom. A teacher in one section can be heard in the other. The Standard Five pupils yesterday said they sometimes go home having heard more from Class Seven lessons than their own. Teachers have no staffroom and nine of them use the veranda as their office. In one classroom, a small partition separates the head teacher’s office from Standard Eight pupils. “We had to divide one of the classrooms so one section is my office, while the rest is used by Standard Eight pupils,” Waswa said. A visitor speaking in the head teacher’s office is easily overheard by pupils, and this undermines administration and learning. “It’s hard to discuss sensitive issues with visiting parents,” Waswa said. Pupils have the hardest time during rainy seasons. The classrooms are muddy and soaked. Pupils shelter in one dry area. Still, they try hard to learn. The CDF office said it might take some time before new structures are put up so the children can have a decent school. Meantime, pupils suffer and hope that one day, like other children, they too will have a decent school.