Mombasa Island Cargo Terminal braved fierce opposition from Samsung to win the 39th edition of Davis Cup yesterday at the Nairobi Polo Club, Jamhuri. The final was fiercely contested with both MICT (Phillip Arungah 2, Omwakwe Arungah 0.5, Natasha Tisminiesky -0.5 and Eva Kamau -1.5) and Samsung (Mike du Toit 1, Phillippa Marrian 0.5, Arnie Lustman -0.5 and Jadini Nzomo -0.5) proving hard nuts to crack. Jadini Nzomo assigned himself to mark Arungah and did his job pretty well in the first two chukkas before switching roles in the team. It was no longer a run-away case for the Arungah-led outfit as Phillippa Marrian banged in the match opener for Samsung for one and a fraction (1.5) lead in the first chukka. Arungah narrowed the gap to a fraction in the second chukka. Omwakwe picked a loose ball in the second minute of the third period to the heaven’s gate, missed it before turning around to find the ball unattended to and with the posts next to him, slotted it in. du Toit replied Omwakwe’s goal and little later, Arungah hit in a brace, catapulting MICT to a 4-2F advantage. Jadini’s sole goal in the fourth session was not enough to deliver the trophy home. Their situation was worsened by father and son (Arungah and Omwakwe), who scored one goal apiece to end the game 6-3F. In a re-match pitting worst loser and best loser of day one, Royal Salute turned tables on Samurai to settle for the third place. Royale Salute drew the first blood with Harry Stichbury 0.5, Dominic Grammaticas 1 and Lochie Stichbury -1.5 punishing Samurai with a 3-0 lead at the end of the first chukka. Grammaticas piled misery on the Raphael Nzomo-led side with a quick goal at the start of the second period but Magda Jurkowiecka -2 voided the goal for 4-1. After the break, Rowena Stichbury made it 5-1 for Royal Salute. Samurai regrouped later in the fourth chukka, employing great defensive stunts with Hiromi Nzomo 0, Kevin Kaniu -0.5 and Jurkowiecka feeding Nzomo who converted a brace. After a thorough 9-2 beating handed to RJ Polo by MICT on Saturday, the former bounced back with a 5-1 win over Space and Style. The loss consigned Space and Style to taking home the wooden spoon having lost all their ties in the knockout tournament. Handicap -0.5 Louis Roumeguere had a great polo weekend, providing an assist in their opening duel and went on to score all the four goals. Roumeguere notched in a goal apiece in the first two chukkas before Izzy Stichbury netted one in the third. Roumeguere then added a double in the last period, one of which was abrogated by ‘Space and Style’s captain handicap one Lorrenzo Soriano.