Four children aged between six and 10 from Hagarbul are admitted with diarrhoea at Dadaab Subcounty Hospital, Garissa. County disease surveillance coordinator Hassan Elmi said the four were taken to the hospital on Saturday after the symptoms persisted. Elmi said three children were subjected to rapid diagnostic tests which revealed cholera. Samples collected from the victims were taken to Hagadera centre for disease control and the results confirmed the four are suffering from cholera. Health workers in Hagarbul have been alerted and are taking precautionary measures to contain the disease. “This morning we have received results from Hagadera laboratory that the four have tested positive for cholera. Our fears have been confirmed and we shall send additional health workers to Hagarbul to support those on the ground,” Elmi said. Speaking to the press yesterday, Elmi advised the residents to maintain high standards of hygiene by boiling drinking water, washing their hands after visiting the latrine and eating inspected meat. He said following an outbreak of the disease last year in Dadaab, the health department ordered a stockpile of cholera emergency supplies that are still in the stores. “We have enough emergency supplies to deal with the disease. We ordered a 10-tonne truck of the supplies last year. We believe it will be enough to deal with the Hagarbul cases,” Elmi said. Four people died from cholera outbreak earlier in May last year, the Health ministry reported. Medical services director said the four were among 146 infected people. This was figure as at May 21. The director said the first two cases were reported in Mathare, Nairobi, where 21 cases and one death were recorded. There were 88 cases in Garissa, 15 cases and two deaths in Vihiga, two cases in Mombasa, one case in Kiambu and 11 cases and one death in Murang’a. “Some of the cases reported in Nairobi, Mombasa and Vihiga were associated with a wedding in Karen,” a statement from the director stated. Cholera is an infectious disease that comes with a sudden onset of watery diarrhoea and vomiting. It is associated with taking contaminated water and food with cholera germs. The director said the government is working with counties and partners to end infections. Health workers were asked to keenly monitor suspected cases and follow cholera management guidelines.