NASA chiefs will meet on Monday to put their house in order ahead of Raila Odinga’s and Kalonzo Musyoka’s swearing-in on January 30. The opposition coalition has been rocked with murmurs over the distribution of House leadership seats and diverging views on the swearing-in. Wiper and ANC has openly protested the manner in which positions were dished out in the National Assembly and the Senate. NASA principal and Senate Leader of Minority Moses Wetang’ula yesterday said the issue of House leadership will top the agenda of the coalition’s Summit when it meets on Monday to unlock the stalemate. Read:Kalonzo returns amid discontent in NASA over House positions He was speaking after presiding over a Ford Kenya Women League meeting in Nairobi. NASA principals Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi and Wetang’ula form the Summit – a top decision-making organ for the opposition. “Wiper has a right to speak out if it feels shortchanged. On Monday, Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia and myself will meet. Wiper will tell us where they are uncomfortable,” Wetang’ula said. The Ford Kenya boss downplayed conflicting statements by some leaders of his party opposed to the January 30 oath taking. On Wednesday, Kitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka said President Uhuru Kenyatta is in office legally and he recognises his presidency. Last week, after NASA’s People Assembly in Kakamega, former Kakamega Senator Dr Boni Khalwale, who skipped the event, publicly chided Raila’s swearing-in plan, describing it as a joke. Wetang’ula said the official position of the party will be communicated by the party leader or the secretary general. He said Ford Kenya remains firmly in NASA. NASA cancelled this weekend People’s Assembly in Kalonzo’s Machakos backyard, but maintained the change in their programme will not affect their planned swearing-in. “It (postponement) does not affect the events of January 30,” Wetang’ula said. He called on the President and Deputy President William Ruto to climb down and talk with NASA, saying the opposition is ready to engage Jubilee to end the political stalemate. “It is not possible to shake hands with somebody with clenched fists neither can you clap with one hand. If Jubilee are willing to talk then we are, if they are not then we are not short of options,” said Wetang’ula. Read:Discord in NASA after MP Memusi is ‘shortchanged’ in PSC appointment Also Read:Discord in NASA as ODM elbows out ANC for PAC Click here for latest political news