Those who like the finer things in life may not enjoy holiday camping. But glamping (glamorous camping) is an ideal way to experience the outdoors while staying in super-comfortable accommodation. The Maasai Mara, Laikipia and Samburu are some of my favourite glamping destinations, with several options of small, luxury lodges and tented camps usually in secluded wilderness areas away from crowds. Upon arrival, there is no standing in line waiting to check in. You’re led to a lounge area overlooking a panoramic view and sip a freshly squeezed juice as the camp manager delivers a warm welcome and a debrief about camp. The uniquely designed guestroom rooms are set apart for utmost privacy. Interiors are spacious and outfitted with carefully selected amenities like homemade soaps, Persian rugs, flashlights and drinking water in old-fashioned pitchers. The staff are attentive and discreet. The personal morning wake-up call comes with coffee and home-baked biscuits. During game drives, snacks, beverages, blankets, charging stations and wildlife books are provided in the tall Land Cruiser vehicles. The driver-guides have a phenomenal knowledge of the bush, as many have grown up in the area. Before supper, people gather around the campfire, sipping pre-dinner drinks and swapping stories of their day’s experiences. Besides the main dining area, dinner could be served by lantern light under the stars. Individual food allergies or preferences are taken into consideration, while separate meals and times can be arranged for children. When there is entertainment, it is not the usual acrobats wearing animal print costumes or watching of decades-old wildlife films. The camp manager joins guests for dinner and beguiles them with stories of wildlife and bush living. An askari escorts you to your room after dinner. Glam camps cost more, but the rates usually include all beverages and activities. Since many are located in private conservancies, the range of activities is amazing. In Samburu, we ate breakfast along the banks of the Ewaso Nyiro River. In Elephant Pepper Camp, an armed guide took us on a bush walk. From Joy’s Camp in Shaba, we visited the salt pans of the Magado Crater. At Tortillis Camp in Amboseli we had cocktails and bites on top of a hill, watching the sun setting. From Ol Donyo Lodge near the Chyulu Hills we went horse-back riding in the plains.