MPs allied to NASA yesterday briefly brought business to a standstill during a parliamentary session in Mombasa protesting alleged interference with Parliament by the Executive. The MPs, members of the National Assembly watchdog committees Public Investment Committee, Public Accounts Committee and Special Funds Accounts Committee, were starting their three-day joint induction seminar at the Sarova Whitesands Beach Hotel. Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala and his Kiminini counterpart Chris Wamalwa were angered by an announcement by National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai that members of the Agriculture committee, who happened to be members of the three watchdog committees, were needed in Nairobi. Read: Respect House's independence, NASA tells Uhuru over summonses to Jubilee MPs Sialai said the members will be facilitated to fly to Nairobi for the meeting then come back for the induction seminar. “Parliament will be working under duress if this is allowed to continue. We must resist,” Wamalwa said. An agitated Wanjala said President Uhuru Kenyatta is taking Kenya back to the Moi era, where MPs were summoned to State House to receive instructions on how to either vote or conduct themselves in Parliament. The Star learnt that some of the members who were supposed to fly back to Nairobi were part of the MPs who were de-whipped by Jubilee for failing to step down as committee chairmen as instructed by Deputy President William Ruto. They are Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Silas Kipkoech (Moiben), David Bowen (Marakwet East) and James Gakuya (Embakasi North). Read: Defiant MPs summoned to State House They went to court and obtained orders barring the ruling party from interfering with their work. None had arrived for the session by the time Sialai made the announcement. Wanjala said, “Don’t allow any member to go to Nairobi. This is a waste of public money.” Kaloleni MP Peter Katana later said Parliament needs its space. “We are all here as National Assembly MPs and not Jubilee or NASA lawmakers. If it was summoning for genuine reasons, we should all have been summoned,” Katana said. Session chair and Kibwezi East MP Jessica Mbalu had a hard time controlling the agitated NASA lawmakers. “This issue will be raised in the plenary session,” she said. Sialai had to defend himself, saying Parliament is still independent and there is no interference from the Executive. Click here for the latest political news