Clearing agents in the country have expressed dissatisfaction over the Standard Gauge Railway freight services, saying there are a number of issues that have not been addressed. Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association said the issue of last mile, returning of empty containers and cargo clearance at the Nairobi Internal Container Depot have not been sufficiently addressed by Kenya Railways Corporation. The freight services started in Tuesday. Kenya Ports Authority head of Inland Container Depots Simon Wahome said the new train will revolutionise cargo transport. He said while the metre-gauge train used to carry between 20 and 30 containers, the SGR train will carry approximately 216 containers. Currently, KRC will operate four cargo freight train daily, however in near future they would the increase the trains to eight to meet the demand in cargo transportation. One freight train can pull up to 140 containers. Kifwa chairperson William Ojonyo said KRC is rushing to implement the freight service without addressing the pertinent issues raised during the stakeholders' meetings. “KRC has not addressed the issue of last mile. What will happen to the cargo when it reaches the Nairobi ICD? How will the cargo reach its final destination from Nairobi?" posed Ojonyo. Importers are expected to pay Sh50,000 for a 20-foot container and Sh70,000 for 40-foot container transported by the SGR freight service train. “The charges are good. However, we want to know how we will transport our cargo after it reaches the Nairobi ICD to the final destination,” he said. Another pertinent issued raised by Kifwa is how the empty containers will be returned to the port of Mombasa before the importer starts being penalized for overstaying with them. “Normally we are timed out by the shipping agents on returning of containers, which should be 14 days from the date of arrival, before it begins to attract other charges,” said the Kifwa chair. He said when they use of trucks, the containers are normally offloaded atop the truck, which means that they are not removed from the vehicle and the truck goes back to Mombasa immediately after offloading. “KRC is not telling us clearly how we are going to ensure that the containers are returned to the shipping agents within the 14-day period,bearing in mind the slow clearance process in Nairobi,” said Ojonyo. “They have automated the system, but they do not have the capacity. It might take a whole day to clear the cargo through the automated system. Let them first address these issues,” he said.