Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya yesterday unveiled his new Cabinet and announced changes in the structure of government, ending months of anxiety. He has rewarded ODM loyalists and political allies, including former MCAs. Oparanya has retained only three CECs in their current dockets and shuffled five others. The entry of politicians is seen as part of his plan for a strong legacy and 2022 politics. He has declared he will run for a higher office in the next General Election. Oparanya said the delay in announcing the changes stemmed from the desire to ensure the formation of a new executive complies with the law and is guided by the need for a smooth transition between the outgoing and incoming office holders. Nominees Those retained are Geoffrey Omulayi (Finance), Collins Matemba (Roads, Public Works and Energy) and Alfred Matianyi (Lands, Housing, Urban Areas and Physical Planning). Current county secretary Beatrice Sabana was nominated for Public Service and Administration, currently held by Rachael Okumo, who moves to the Health docket. Peninah Mukabane, who has been appointed adviser on special programmes and gender affairs, held the Health department. New entrants in the Cabinet include John Wangwe (Water, Environment and Natural Resources), former assembly Majority leader Robert Makhanu (Social Services, Youth and Sports), Joseph Obonyo (Education, Science and Technology), Kassim Ali (Trade, Industrialisation and Tourism) and George Akolo (ICT, e-Government and Communication). Deputy Governor Philip Kutima will oversee Agriculture, Irrigation, Cooperatives, Livestock, Veterinary Services and Fisheries. Agriculture CEC Kulati Wangia has been nominated for CEO in charge of Microfinance Cooperation. Jacinta Odhiambo has been nominated the county secretary and former Water and Environment CEC Robert Sumbi has been named the chief of staff. Transformation agenda Former MCA Herbert Sore will be Oparanya’s PA and another former ward rep, Edward Inzofu, adviser on Devolved Units and Ombudsman. Matungu ODM chairman Paul Posho was named the adviser on Economic and Planning Affairs. Oparanya said they will ensure all projects launched in his first term are completed and the transition to a new team does not disrupt services. “This included finalisation of the audit process, payment of pending bills and preparation of comprehensive handover reports,” he said. “This will ensure that, unlike the shambolic transition of the first county executive, the incoming executive will have a solid foundation upon which to begin its tenure.” He plans to transform agriculture to improve productivity, infrastructure development to spur economic growth and health services to ensure residents get quality services. The county boss also said his administration will develop a water and sewerage Master Plan to guide the development of infrastructure.