Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has presented 10 tractors to boost food production and enable farmers to put large tracts of idle land under cultivation. He said farmers will hire the tractors at a subsidised fee of Sh1,200 per acre. Private tractor operators charge Sh3,000 to till one acre. The equipment was purchased last year. The governor spoke on Tuesday when presenting the tractors in Rarieda. He said more cultivated land means greater food security. Rasanga said the county has a huge agricultural potential, but residents have not been keen on farming. He directed the Agriculture department to supply farmers with seeds, fertiliser and tractor services to ensure the large tracts of lands lying idle are put to good use. Rasanga directed acting Agriculture chief officer Sylvester Kokoth to identify needy farmers and register them for support in agricultural programmes. “All needy farmers will have to enjoy county mechanisation services to increase acreage under cultivation, fertiliser and seeds,” Rasanga said. The goal is to ensure farmers reap big by getting maximum crop yield, the governor said. He also urged farmers to start sorghum farming so they can reap millions of shillings from Kenya Breweries Ltd. Rasanga said Kenya Breweries, Kisumu branch, intends to extend production of sorghum to Ugenya, Gem, Alego/Usonga, Bondo and Rarieda to meet its demand. The company requires more raw material for beer production. More than 3,000 farmers in Siaya have been identified to grow sorghum to be purchased by Kenya Breweries. Rasanga said the company wants 20,000 acres in Siaya under sorghum cultivation. “The initiative will enable farmers in Siaya to earn billions of shillings annually and help the company meet the ever-growing demand for sorghum,” the governor said. He asked Agriculture chief officer Kokoth to allocate funds for educating farmers on modern farming technology to boost production. Sorghum is the fifth most important grain crop after maize, wheat, rice and barley. This is quickly changing as demand for sorghum increases. Last year, farmers from various counties, including Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu and Tharaka Nithi, ventured into sorghum farming to improve their livelihoods. Farmers are continuously trained in good agricultural practices, post-harvest handling and value addition.