Eight months ago, a storm blew off the roof of Riongo dispensary in Tiaty subcounty, Baringo. It hasn’t been repaired. The wind destroyed Sh5 million property, including equipment, medicine, supplies, beds, fixtures and furniture. Nurses were on strike. Some staff later fled, citing harsh working conditions. The facility has no water. Now some patients are treated under an acacia tree outside the nearby home of the last remaining nurse, Steve Saban, a hero. “I’ve been handling patients outside my house under this acacia tree,” he told the Star. They might be joined by snakes, scorpions and spiders. Expectant mothers seldom visit the dispensary and rely on home delivery by unskilled midwives. Some residents, including pupils of Riongo Primary School, travel more than 40km to Chemoling’ot Subcounty Hospital. Residents and dispensary staff are appealing to the county and national governments and well-wishers to help repair the facility to improve care. The only worker, nurse in charge at the dispensary, Steve Saban, yesterday said that despite the crisis, he treats more than 200 patients every month — mostly children, elderly people and pregnant women. COUNTY DOES NOTHING He urged the county and the national government to rebuild and equip the facility Saban said he had notified Governor Stanley Kiptis, but he has done nothing. Yesterday, Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony said the county is aware of residents’ suffering and is awaiting allocations by the assembly. He assured that the county will act. Resident Hosea Kipkukat appealed to the county to also deploy more nurses to improve services. Residents can’t afford to pay for repairs, he said. Because the facility also lacks water, every week Saban digs deep into his own pockets to buy it from a bowser. It supplies water from the Chemolingot or Ng’inyang rivers 40km away. He spends as much as Sh2,000 each time.  BITTEN BY SCORPIONS “The drought is real in Tiaty. I frequently receive patients who are physically weak because of dehydration,” Saban said. He appealed to water vendors to supply Riongo Primary School so pupils do not suffer dehydration. “We need sufficient water for the school. I also need a regular supply so I can serve patients better,” Saban said. Saban was bitten twice by scorpions while treating patients. “I thank God I survived. I braved the painful bites twice. I injected myself with anti-venom drugs, locked myself up in my room for a few days and later returned to serve my people,” he said. Resident Chebokamarmar Lomadei said they face health risks at the dispensary. Silale MCA Nelson Lotela said the previous administration of Governor Benjamin Cheboi allocated Sh180,000 to renovate the dispensary. “The money was not spent and the damage got worse with time. Now the facility requires up to Sh5 million for renovation,” the ward representative said. Lotela urged Governor Kiptis to use some of the county emergency cash to put on a new roof, do basic repairs and buy equipment. The ward representative also told the county to supply water to schools and public facilities in the drought-ravaged subcounty.