Kenyans will have a slice of mining firms setting up in the country if the draft Mining Local Equity Participation Regulations is signed into law. According to the draft regulations published by the Ministry of Mining in December last year, firms investing at least $100 million (Sh1billion) in Kenya’s mining sector must have 24 per cent local shareholding through the stock exchange within three years of operations. “The holder of a mining license shall list at least 20 per cent of equity in Kenya within three years after the commencement of production. The minimum local shareholding for a holder of a mining license shall be obtained through a public offer in accordance with the provisions of the legislation relating to capital markets and the listing rules of the stock exchange,’’ the draft regulation reads in part. Proposed regulations are set to strengthen the Mining Act 2016 which advocates for the protection of local participation with provisions for equity participation in large mining operations. The Act also provides for the prioritization of local procurement of goods, services and workforce. In August 2013, Najib Balala, then Cabinet Secretary mining, set up the metals and minerals board at the Nairobi Securities Exchange to enable listing of mining companies. The team, under NSE CEO, was to research and advise the CS on how mining companies can be encouraged to list in the stock exchange. The draft law, according to Mining CS Dan Kazungu, will see Kenyans participate in funding and benefit from high returns. Most mining firms in the country are owned by foreign investors. Some mining firms that have invested over Sh1 billion in the country and operated for at least three years includes Base Titanium, a subsidiary of the Australian and UK-listed resources company, Base Resources Limited. Acacia Mining is also conducting exploration activities in Western Kenya. The new regulations will allow Kenyans to participate in developing mineral resources by acquiring equity of mining companies and enabling extraction firms raise capital locally,’’ said Kazungu. A holder of a mining license may apply to the CS to extend the period that the holder is required to list on the stock exchange. “The Cabinet Secretary in consultation with the National Treasury, may extend the period for the holder to list on the stock Where the holder has failed to secure the minimum shareholding due to an unsuccessful public offer, the CS may exempt the holder from complying with the Act and regulations on terms and conditions agreed. Click here for the latest political news