Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s lawyer has turned against him over alleged failure to pay legal fees arising from a suit filed by William Kabogo. Harrison Kinyanjui is accusing the governor of failing to instruct him to conclude the suit he defended after Kabogo questioned the governor's Punjab University degree. The lawyer filed an application in court seeking to stop acting for the governor saying "the client –advocate relationship has collapsed" and that he greatly handicapped in the conduct of the proceedings. "He has not paid me and I am unable to proceed with representing him any more. He never responds to my calls and I have to stop acting for him in about 15 other cases," Kinyanjui says in the application. Normally, advocates' cost are pegged at the taxed cost plus a half. The fee is assessed by the court registrar. Kabogo had filed the case questioning the Punjab University degree that Waititu holds. The former governor had also accused Waititu of identity theft. Read: Kabogo sues Waititu, says degree is fake He alleged that Waititu was using another person’s academic papers and did not have any post-primary school education, let alone a degree from the university in India. Kabogo wanted the court to declare Waititu unfit to run for public office. The court, however, dismissed the case saying that it lacked jurisdiction to meddle in the dispute. Kinyanjui says following the court's verdict, he prepared the bill of cost which was taxed by S. Mwayuli who ordered Kabogo to pay Waititu Sh5,343,922.00. "I furnished a copy of the ruling to him and he informed me that he would pay my fees as the work was complete, I did not receive any settlement." "He later informed me that he was reluctant to settle the bill as he was still settling down as the Kiambu governor," the lawyer says. Kinyanjui says he had previously been forced to adjourn the proceedings on the basis that Waititu became totally inaccessible. "I was compelled to inform him that my law firm was not going to proceed with the matter, more over I cannot use my own funds to progress the proceedings," he says. Also read: Waititu wants Sh50m from Kabogo over degree suit Click here for the latest political news 