NASA has added Haco Tiger Industries products to its product boycott list. It says the company had a hand in bungling the annulled August 8 presidential election. The opposition yesterday directed its supporters countrywide to avoid products and services from the company owned by businessman Chris Kirubi. The coalition accused Haco, which manufactures stationaries and beauty products, of contributing to entrenching electoral malpractice. Lawyer Miguna Miguna, speaking on behalf of the National Resistance Movement wing of NASA, told supporters not to buy Bic pens, Miadi hair oil, cleaning detergent So Soft, Amara and Haco pegs and shavers. Read: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott Miguna said the company is culpable of the electoral ‘mischief’ that led to the nullification of the August 8 presidential results. He refused to give details of how the company meddled in the polls mismanagement. “We are encouraging our supporters not to buy products and services or shares from that company so that we send a clear message that impunity does not pay,” he said. Attempts to get a comment from the company were futile as no one responded to calls or messages. This brings to four the number of companies the opposition has linked to the bungling of the August 8 presidential election, which the Supreme Court judges annulled, citing irregularities and illegalities. Read: One million Kenyans to lose jobs with NASA boycott - Safaricom dealers Miguna said the three companies - Bidco, Brookside and Safaricom - have suffered billions of shillings in losses in the ongoing products boycott that started last year. This is, however, not backed by any data to ascertain the impact of the boycott which arose after last year’s presidential election. NASA said Safaricom played a huge role in the August 8 election and denied NASA leader Raila Odinga victory. The coalition said Safaricom transmitted results from the polling stations directly to a cloud server registered in Spain and not to the IEBC server in France, as was agreed in their contract. Safaricom has denied the claims. Miguna was with Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala during the briefing at the Okoa Kenya offices. The leaders said the swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka will take place at Uhuru Park as earlier planned, despite Nairobi county saying it is closed. “As I said before, Uhuru Park belongs to the people of Kenya. Uhuru Park does not belong to Jubilee or NASA or any factional group. Right now the venue is Uhuru Park,” Miguna said. Read: Raila's boycott call is criminal, amounts to extortion, says Ruto Click here for the latest political news