IGAD Council of Ministers has
denounced the Sudan People's Liberation Army and the opposition for violations
of the cessation agreement of December 24, last year. The agency said the Ceasefire
and Transitional Security Arrangements Monitoring Mechanism (CTSAMM) had also submitted 
"two very disturbing reports about the issues of sexual and gender-based
violence and child soldiers, which were the result of long-term
investigations." Also read: Sudan rebels refuse to free Kenyan pilots More: South Sudan rebels demand compensation to release Kenyan pilots "It is deplorable that the conduct of the parties
amounts to not only a failure to comply with the Articles of the Agreement
on Cessation and Hostilities, but also
serious violations of international human rights and humanitarian laws," the agency said in a statement released on Friday. "These
violations have been perpetrated by the SPLA-IG and SPLA-IO against their own
people, and include the killings of civilians, inflicting serious mental and
physical injuries on people, rape, sexual violence and looting." The CTSAMM report indicates that between
February and December, 2017 a large number of sexual and gender-based violations
were committed by uniformed members of government security forces in the Juba
area, including gang rape. "These cases are verified, and represent
only a proportion of the crimes committed, as many incidents go unreported due
to fear of reprisals and shame.  It is deplorable that military personnel
can carry out such acts," the Inter-Governmental Agency on Development said. On Tuesday, Festus Mogae - chair of the Joint
Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, demanded that all
parties fully respect and comply with the terms of the Agreement on the
Cessation of Hostilities, Protection of Civilians and Humanitarian Access,
signed on  December 21, last year and
called upon all sides to fulfil their obligations to the international ceasefire
monitoring body. On Wednesday,
the United States signalled a sharp
shift in its South Sudan policy on Wednesday as UN Ambassador Nikki Haley denounced
the country's President as “an unfit partner.” "We have treated the Kiir government as a
partner in this effort, and we have assumed that the best interests of the
people were its priority," the US envoy said. "But through its recent actions the
government of South Sudan is increasingly proving itself to be an unfit partner
for this Council and any country seeking peace and security for the people of
South Sudan," Ambassador Haley said. "It is past time for the leaders of Uganda
and Kenya to get involved and put pressure on President Kiir," Ambassador Haley
told the UN Security Council. The reports provided by CTSAMM indicate a high
level of tension in areas of Central Equatoria.  The Council of Ministers
called on the SPLA-IG and the SPLA-IO to reduce the tension by complying with
all provisions of the ACOH in these areas. Also read: Kenya and South Sudan must find, compensate missing activists Click here for the latest political stories