A High Court judge has declined to review orders in the suit challenging the importation of Brazilian brown sugar by Sony Sugar Company. Justice Roselyne Aburili declined to grant the application on Thursday, saying she lacks jurisdiction since the matter is being handled by another court. Activist Okiya Omutatah had asked the court to allow him file further affidavits to support the main petition, saying that he had discovered massive fraud in the importation of the brown sugar. He also wanted to amend the list of respondents. Omtatah states that on December 18,2017, a consignment of 50,500 metric tonnes of Brazilian brown sugar under the name of Sony Sugar was shipped in but the documents on record have been falsified to show that the consignment was loaded on the ship on October 9,2017 and sailed on October 12. "The respondent tries to evade payment of the import duty by squeezing their fraudulent operations under the period which they backdated the documents to October 12, 2017", he claims. Omtatah claims despite being the petitioner, Sony sugar has not served him with any undertakings that the sugar will be safe despite being offloaded. He has also not been told which warehouse the sugar is being held. "Since there is no security offered to ensure compliance, I ask the court to revisit the varied orders and order Sony sugar to provide security in the amount equivalent to full duty payable to the entire consignment calculated by KRA", he said. Omtatah alleges that KRA, Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Authority, and KEBS committed fraud by approving and clearing the customs entry lodged by Sony on December 18. Justice Aburili however directed that all parties appear before Justice Mativo next Monday to hear their application. Last week Mativo granted temporary prohibitory order that the sugar aboard the MV Holy, should not be processed, cleared or released pending the hearing and determination of the case. “The respondents should not whether by themselves, through their employees or agents or any person claiming to act under their authority, offload the sugar,” Mativo ruled. Omtatah has sued Sony, Kenya Revenue Authority and the Treasury Cabinet Secretary to stop them from offloading the consignment which docked at the Mombasa port last week. He says selling the sugar in the country is equal to dumping, and that would disadvantage the country’s cane farmer..