It was a moment of triumph, capping the illustrious career of Raila Amollo Odinga. Though he was threatened with jail, treason and death, though his three principals abandoned him, though the international community begged him not to do it, Raila was radiant yesterday as he took the oath of office as the people’s President of the Republic of Kenya. Hundreds of thousands of supporters probably not a million as promised  were ecstatic after waiting for hours in the scorching sun in Uhuru Park. It was supposed to be a double swearing-in. Read : Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent But NASA running mate Kalonzo Musyoko was inexplicably absent. Awkward, embarrassing but no matter. That didn’t dampen the crowd’s jubilation as their man held aloft the Bible. Nor did the absence of NASA chief campaigner Musalia Mudavadi and principal Moses Wetang’ula cast a pall over the event, though analysts were chattering. Police, who had pledged to seal off Uhuru Park and declare it a no-go zone guaranteeing a violence backed off and supporters streamed in as early as 6am. They came from around the country. They danced and sang anti-government and pro-NASA songs. The programme was to start at 8.30am but was delayed until minutes past 2pm, an indication something was amiss. The three no-shows. By 10.30am, the public address system was yet to be set up. There were no decorations, however, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had considerately dumped piles of rocks and construction materials at the site. At around 2.25pm, Raila made his entry into Uhuru Park to a thunderous reception by those who came to witness the man who said victory had been stolen from him four times. Also read : Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth After short speeches by Siaya Senator James Orengo and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, it was time for Raila. With a Bible held aloft in his right hand, the former Prime Minister said, “I, Raila Amollo Odinga, in full realisation of the high calling, assume the office of the people’s President of the Republic of Kenya, do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to the People and the Republic of Kenya; that I will preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of Kenya, as by law established and all other laws of the Republic as adopted by the people of Kenya; that I will protect and uphold sovereignty, integrity and dignity of the people of Kenya. So help me, God.” The 90-word oath was administered by lawyer Miguna Miguna and Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang, who was dressed in court regalia. Raila did not give details on the whereabouts of other principals, only saying they support the oath-taking and that the country will soon know why they were not in attendance. Click here for the latest political stories