Forceful evictions in Embobut Forest that forced the EU to suspend Sh3.6 billion conservation funds continued yesterday despite outcry by civil society groups. An indigenous Sengwer community has accused the state of targetting the hunter-gatherer community in the ongoing eviction. The EU suspended the funding on Wednesday last week after one person was killed and another one wounded by KFS wardens, who were patrolling the forest. Sengwer community members, who have lived in the forest before the colonial period were paid Sh410,000 each in 2014 and asked to leave the forest to pave way for conservation. The community told a meeting that brought together the EU, the Ministry of Environment and the Sengwer community that the compensation was inadequate to buy land and resettle outside the forest. EU head of delegation Stefano Dejak told the state to stop the forceful evictions and hold dialogue with the community. Local authorities have, however, intensified the evictions after Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki ordered deployment of an elite unit of security agencies on Friday, noting bandits and illegal loggers are using the forest as a hideout. “The county security committee has resolved to deploy a more specialised security forces to Embobut Forest from Monday. Another team is using choppers,” Ndambuki said, Sengwer locals yesterday said they are living in panic following the deployment and after KFS wardens used excessive force last week. Their spokesman Paul Kiptuga said, “It is unfortunate that one member of our community was killed during an operation carried by the Kenya Forest Service guards last week. This is despite an agreement with the government that it should conduct the operation with respect to rights of the indigenous people,” Kiptuga said. He said the government deployed a contingent of security officers to violently evict people from the forest. “The security officers with the help of forest guards are using excessive force to evict people,” Kiptuga said. The forest, Kiptuga said, is the community’s ancestral land. “I'm homeless after I lost everything when forest guards set my home ablaze. It is unfortunate the government is evicting the community members at the expense of getting funds from the EU,” Kiptuga said. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said there is need for structured dialogue between the forest dwellers, the national and county government for smooth implementation of the EU funded programmes. He said it is sad to read in the media that the government is being insensitive when evicting the Sengwer community from the forest instead of seeking dialogue with them.