Barclays Africa has forecast depreciation of the Kenyan shilling from the current Sh103.07 to Sh106 by the end of this year due to both internal and global economic risks. Speaking while unveiling the Macro Economic Report for Kenya and Africa, Barclays Africa chief economist Jeff Gable termed political strain in Kenya and her neighbours coupled with various uncertainties in the global environment as key factors that are likely to shake the stability of shilling. “The widening trade imbalance against Kenya, increase in commodity prices, US policy uncertainty, Geopolitics and Brexit uncertainties are likely to take a toll on local currencies in Sub Saharan Africa,'' he said. He added that compared to other currencies in sub-Saharan Africa, the shilling has been less volatile over the past two years. The currency, which has now lost 16 per cent against the dollar since 2015, is reeling under the weight of a rising import bill which is likely to be worsened by a surge in global petroleum prices. Oil prices are forecast to rise to $56 a barrel in 2018 from $53 last year as a result of steadily growing demand, agreed production cuts among oil exporters and stabilizing U.S. shale oil production, this according to World Bank. Kenya's import bill increased by 15.5 per cent to Sh410.9 billion in the second quarter of 2017 compared to Sh355.9 billion in the second quarter of 2016. In the report launched yesterday, Barclays said the Kenyan shilling was likely to depreciate further in 2019 to Sh108.50 and Sh110.80 in 2020 against the greenback. Even so, Barclays Africa has predicted that Kenya's economy will grow 5.5 per cent this year on the back of good rains experienced from the second quarter of 2017 and the cooling political temperature in the country. This, the report suggests is positive as only 17 countries in Africa will grow faster than five per cent this year. However, according to the report, slowdown in credit growth as a result of the interest rate cap will negatively impact the country’s growth prospects. “What’s interesting and also quite sad is that in Kenya, for every Sh3 collected in tax, Sh1 goes to paying interest on debt as opposed to growth of the country,” Gable said. He added that with less debt, monies acquired from sectors such as tourism have the potential to grow the economy massively.