The Nakuru government is in talks with tenants living in its houses to pay Sh180 million rent arrears. The
money has accumulated in the last four years. Lands executive Lucy Kariuki on Monday
said political interference was the main cause of nonpayment. She said less than 50 per cent of
tenants have been promptly paying rent. The county has 6,000
functional housing units, charging rent of between Sh800 and Sh6,000 a
month, depending on size in square foot. “The county is
working towards achieving a city status and housing is a key area
we are committed to improve,” Kariuki said. Flamingo MCA
Eddy Kiragu said tenants refused to pay rent, citing poor
services by the former municipal council and the county government.“It is
ironical the government owned estates have the worst garbage and
sewerage disposal systems in the county. No one is willing to pay
for poor services,” he said.Flamingo ward has 1,512
housing units built on 35 acres.Kariuki said the
county is ready to work with partners to improve housing status. “If our people paid rent in time and in full, we would
do it single-handedly,” she said.She said of concern is
the asbestos roofing still on the houses. According to Nema, asbestos is a hazardous material with extremely fine fibers and can
remain suspended in air for hours. If handled without caution, it may
cause serious chronic health problems such as asbestosis, lung cancer
and mesothelioma. The diseases cause long term serious social, economic
and emotional problems.The national government imposed a ban on the use of
asbestos in 2006, because the roofing material contained hazardous
cancer-causing materials.Cancer is the third highest cause of
morbidity in the country – seven per cent of deaths per year –, after
infectious and cardiovascular diseases.Kariuki said the county had started getting rid of the asbestos roofing
in some of estates, but the disposal is not properly done. She said they are
seeking experts intervention.“We are engaging health and
environmental experts in the next phase of the project to help
dispose of the material as per the international standards,” Kariuki said. She also ordered a halt in building extensions on the county government houses until they come up with a policy. “The
illegal houses are built on sewerage lines, pavements and playgrounds in addition to being a health risk,” Kariuki said.Flamingo Estate resident Mary Kimani said former Governor Kinuthia Mbugua
verbally allowed the tenants to build extensions to accommodate their expanding family sizes.However, a check on various estates revealed that the iron sheet units have been sublet to other
tenants. Kariuki said the county will look for ways to
accommodate the rising population.Kivumbini MCA Wilbur
Onyango said residents should be given priority to occupy the
modern houses at an affordable rate. In
2014, the county waived rent arrears of Sh240 million that
had accumulated in 10 years. Several people, among them police officers were
injured. Then area police boss Johnston Ipara blamed the
chaos on politicians whom he had incited tenants not to
pay rent and block eviction.