Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso and Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui have faulted leaders who have ejected and threatened secondary school principals posted to their areas. The duo, who spoke separately, said teachers are professionals and politicians should stop politicising the transfer issue. They said teachers can work anywhere in the country and their presence in another region outside their home turfs should not be viewed with “an ethnic eye or mindset”.  Laboso spoke during an education stakeholders’ forum in Bomet on Saturday. She said Bomet welcomes school heads who will be transferred to the area. “We have no problem with the principals coming to our schools. They should not fear coming to Bomet because we know such changes have a positive impact on the improvement of our schools,” Laboso said. Read: Arrest locals blocking transfer of school heads, Matiang’i orders cops Tonui praised Education CS Fred Matiang’i over the directive that all those chasing away principals reporting to their new workstations should be arrested. “Education is not a devolved function. Those MCAs and governors trying to behave as if they have a say in the Education ministry’s plans to transfer head teachers should cease,” he said. He said if there is sufficient ground for a principal not to be transferred to a certain area, the matter should be forwarded to the relevant authorities. Bomet Senator Christopher Lang’at, Deputy Governor Hillary Barchok, MPs Brighton Yegon (Konoin), Dominic Koskei (Sotik), and union officials Malel Langat (Knut) and Paul Kimeto (Kuppet) attended the education stakeholders’ meeting. Laboso ordered Education executive Juliana Yegon to form a task force to find out why there was a performance drop in last year’s KCSE exam results in the county. She said it is sad that 66 per cent of students in the county scored below D in the KCSE exam. In December last year, outrage greeted the release of the 2017 KCSE exam results over “mass failure” of students. Last year’s KCSE exam results showed that only 70,073 out of the 611,952 candidates attained the minimum university entry qualification of a mean grade of C+. Read: KCSE 2017: Only 70,000 attain university mean grade, 142 As recorded Click here for the latest political news