The hearing of a case in which a police officer is accused of defiling a minor in Murang’a police station cells failed to kick off after the defense said it has not been served with prosecution documents. Police constable Laban Njogu is accused of defiling the 14-year-old girl on September 30 after she was arrested for allegedly stealing clothes in Murang’a University College hostels. His lawyer Joseph Kirubi told principal magistrate Anthony Mwichigi that he is not ready to proceed with the case as the prosecution has failed to provide him with the witnesses’ statements to help in preparing for the case. This was after the court ordered the prosecution to give him the documents. Kirubi results for a DNA test carried out on should be released to help him form the basis of the case. “I also want the prosecution to provide me with the photos taken at the crime scene which are part of the prosecution’s evidence,” he added. The magistrate however noted that the pace at which the prosecution is working out its case is too slow saying it may affect the victim who is a student. Mwichigi wondered why the prosecution is yet to produce the DNA results which were released towards the end of December last year. He also expressed concerns that the case is being delayed unnecessarily and ordered the state counsel Solomon Njeru to avail all the required documents. The officer was released on a bond of a Sh400,000 bond and a surety of the same amount on October 11 but magistrate Margret Wachira warned him against threatening the victim’s family The minor was placed under the witness protection in October after her theft case was withdrawn and she became a witness in the defilement case. She however disappeared from the witness protection agency on December 2 only to be found more than a month later According to the witness protection agecncy, the girl disappeared after stealing Sh200 and clothes from other minors in the home where she lives “The minor walked out of the home after writing a message on her exercise book thanking the home for taking care of her. She had expressed her dissatisfaction at being defined and wanted to go back home,” the agency said The case is scheduled for hearing on February 22.