The judgement in a petition against Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o will be delivered today. Former Governor Jack Ranguma is challenging his victory at the High Court in Kisumu. Respondents in the case include the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, Governor Nyong’o and Kisumu county returning officer John Cox. Justice David Majanja had earlier said the court will rely on the submissions already laid before it to determine the case. Several witnesses were called from either side to testify. In November, the court dismissed Ranguma’s application seeking scrutiny and a vote recount, saying the the election was marred by irregularities. Majanja said the application was broad and vague. A witness testifying in support of Ranguma said he accessed the servers through an employee of the IEBC.  The court also heard that the governor results were announced without the outcome from five polling stations in Kisumu East constituency.  Cox said by the time he was announcing the results, one candidate was leading by a huge margin and the results from the five polling stations would not have made any difference. Other issues raised during the hearing included intimidation, violence, advocacy of six-piece-suit voting in the polling stations and favouring of agents from particular parties. In his affidavit, Ranguma claimed electoral malpractices were committed during the voting and transmission of the results.  Ranguma told the court his agents were denied access to polling stations and the tallying centre. Some were ejected. He said his agents were barred from inspecting and scrutinising the ballot serial numbers before they were used. The former governor also claimed more than one ballot paper was issues to voters.  “Spoilt votes were not marked and secured. They were later counted in favour of Nyong’o. This was part of the strategy to deny me victory,” Ranguma said.  “Some presiding officers forced agents to sign the declaration forms before receiving the final figures.Agents were threatened, “he said.  However, Nyong’o through his lawyers James Orengo and Antony Oluoch has maintained the election was done according the Constitution.