Insurance firms that have not been listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange may have a harder time adjusting to the new IFRS 9 accounting standards. “Insurance firms that have not been listed on the NSE may suffer more under the IFRS 9 because they are now mandated to disclose their performance,” Kenbright chief actuary and managing director Ezekiel Macharia told the Star. The new accounting rules will better align insurance firms to disburse policies under the risk-based regime. In 2021, the industry will face further scrutiny as the IFRS 17 come to play under which premium volumes will cease to determine a firm’s capacity. Investment components and cash received will no longer be considered as revenue.  The new set of accounting rules will require underwriters to carry out an experience investigation to determine a client’s risk. The investigation will also check how probable a customer is to default on paying outstanding premium.  Results from the investigation will then allow the firms to appropriate cash for the foreseeable loss. A rise in loss provisions will consequently impact the insurers’ net assets.  Performance among unlisted insurance firms could drop as they gradually adjust to the new accounting regime. The most recent report by the Insurance Regulatory Authority shows that Kenya has a total of 55 insurance and re-insurance firms. Of these, on six are listed on the NSE. They are Kenya Re, Jubilee Holdings, Liberty Holdings, Britam Holdings, CIC Group and Sanlam Kenya. While listed firms are required by the Capital Markets Authority to publish annual financial reports to the public, the rest of the underwriters are only required to divulge their financial condition to IRA. The International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 9 replacing the International Accounting Standards 39 are set to shine light on profitability of the insurance sector. An analysis carried out by KPMG published in May stated that the new rules had potential to reduce the cost of capital for some insurers. The report stated that increased transparency would drive comparability and in turn facilitate merger and acquisition activity as well as encourage greater investment capital as it would help underwriters gain trust of investors. “Every insurer is certain to see impacts on its reported numbers in one way or another. Their significance will depend on an insurer’s previous accounting policies -which have differed across jurisdictions and- in some cases, even within jurisdictions,” KPMG’s Global IFRS Insurance leader Joachim Kolschbach said in the report. This was further reiterated by BIMA Intermediaries Association of Kenya chairman Washington Ndegea who told the Star that the new rule would allow Kenyan underwriters to compete in the global market place. Right now we have global companies that want to buy into Kenyan insurance firms,” he said. “This is what is needed to the industry so as to get rid of the weak players and enhance a more robust insurance sector.” IRA data shows insurance penetration in the country stands at 2.73 per cent, although this is low compared to the world average of 6.28 per cent Macharia was optimistic that it would rise to 3 per cent over the next two years. “We expect the insurance market to grow by 20-25 per cent driven by more activity in the life business,” he said. He added that sector players were proving more pro-active in complying with the new standards. A survey carried out by the regulator shows that slightly over 30 per cent of underwriters in the country have deviced an implementation project in to accommodate the new accounting standards. Another 37 per cent are scoping activities in the sector, 12 per cent are currently conducting an analysis to determine actual performance with potential or desired performance while the rest are following sector activity at a distance.