While Kenya’s participation at the cricket team will ensure that local cricket fans follow on what is happening at the international scene,  The Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 championship is set to bowl off tomorrow across the city, offering more spice to the 2018 ICC Under19 World Cup where Kenya will be making a historical comeback in Australia today. The T20 tournament, which acts as the season-ender for the NPCA, will see all the Super League teams battle for the shorter version honours in the next eight weeks. As the actions bowls off, fans will be asking themselves a number of questions, including whether Swamibapa can defend their third title, if Stray Lions can reclaim their and whether Kanbis will lay their hand on another major title in two years? The three teams have had a good run in the last three years in all the formats of the games organized by NPCA and with that, they will get into the tournament as favourites once again. They are expected to parade all their top players as they seek to open their account on a positive note. Swamibapa host Ruaraka, who are still coming to terms with the departure of their top players who helped them put on a much-improved show in the 50 overs league. The hosts, however, will not have such fears since almost all their players are available for selection in the match to be played at Nairobi Jafferys. At Peponi School, 2016 champions Stray Lions will be forced to add on some players to their 50 overs winning team when they welcome Sir Ali. The sides will be without a number of their top professional players and U19 leg spinner Abiskekh Chidambaran. But with a number of seasoned players in their second string team, the home team are unlikely to struggle for players as they face a side that has a bad record against them. At Eastleigh High School, Kanbis will be seeking to continue their good home run against Nairobi Ghymkhana, who have always blown cold or hot in this competition. The other matches will see Sikh Union host Kongonis and Obuya Academy playing away to Cutchi Leva.