President Uhuru Kenyatta should disband the "foolish" NTSA because it has failed to protect Kenyans on roads, rights group Haki Africa has said. The lobby has joined a growing list of disgruntled stakeholders who say the authority should be blamed for the loss of at least 300 lives in December 2017 alone. In an open letter to Uhuru on Thursday, Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid noted NTSA was blaming other stakeholders instead of taking responsibility. “After the  accident at Salgaa where over 36 lives were lost, NTSA simply woke up the next morning and foolishly resorted to banning night travel by transport companies.” He said Kenyans and transport companies are now paying for failures by the National Transport and Safety Authority. Read: NTSA bans PSV night travel after Salgaa crash Thousands of broke Kenyans are paying through the nose to travel to their workstations and schools after spending heavily during the festive season. Khalid said bus companies have lost millions of shillings as they had to cancel tickets issued for night trips. Also read: NTSA unveils new drivers' training curriculum in move to curb road accidents The companies have taken advantage of the situation and doubled or tripled fares. “While most of these accidents were caused by human error, it is worth noting that NTSA is established primarily to reduce these human errors,” Khalid noted in the letter. “What NTSA is engaging in is finger-pointing and blame games yet it is responsible for road safety." Since the ban, the authority has been at the receiving end of flak from Kenyans on Twitter, MPs, the Matatu Owners Association and other transport stakeholders. The stakeholders say this is not the solution but NTSA director general Francis Meja insists the 6am to 7pm ban will reduce road carnage. Khalid said though everybody should take responsibility and be cautious on roads, it is the duty of NTSA to take steps such as establishing roadblocks and speed bumps, especially at hot spots, to improve safety,. He said the transport authority should be proactive, not reactive. “NTSA took no such measures and when accidents occurred, they blamed others including driving schools and transport companies." Kenya is one of the countries with the highest number of deaths by accidents during the festive season. About 3,000 people die in road accidents yearly. “This is unacceptable,” said Khalid. Related: Driving schools to be deregistered, Matiang'i declares as deadly accidents soar Also read: NTSA stops issuing RSL licences after accidents Click here for the latest political news     