Solvit Security has claimed they acted in defence in the circumstances that led to the death of Nyali banker David Wokabi. Reports indicated that Solvit guards attacked Wokabi after he allegedly urinated at an undesignated area within Nyali Centre. He tried to drive away after the incident but was stopped by the guards at the gate. A confrontation ensued and the guards dragged Wokabi from his car and stabbed him several times. More on this: Nyali guards to face murder charges over banker death But in a statement on Monday, the firm said one of their guards spotted Wokabi urinating in the compound at the Nyali mall. "The guard inquired from him about his actions but the man turned abusive and violent. Wokabi rushed to his car and came back wielding a sword," the firm said. They claimed Wokabi used the sword to attack the guard, inflicting a cut on the hand of the security guard while chasing after him. "CCTV footage captures the other guards trying to calm down Wokabi but went after the injured guard, while still brandishing the sword," they said. According to the security firm, the footage also shows an unidentified lady getting out of the passenger seat. "...she begins reversing the car and Wokabi eventually enters the car from the passenger side," they said. The car is again captured arriving at the gate which had been closed after guards raised the alarm that one of their own had been injured by a dangerous man wielding a sword. Wokabi, in the January 18 clip, is seen driving and alights at the barrier, cuts the rope supporting the gate barrier. "A commotion ensued after Wokabi alighted from the car to open the gate without the sword in his hand," the agency said adding "there was a push and pull at the gate." "...then we see one guard hitting him on the back and he fell down." The CCTV clips eventually capture members of the public gathering around the gate but they do not attack our guards as it is clear that Wokabi was the aggressor in this case. "We have learned that Wokabi worked at Stanbic Bank at the mall but he was not known to our night security guards as earlier alleged," Solvit said. Last week, Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa ordered the arrest of Solvit Security boss after the three guards linked to the killing went missing. Two guards were charged on Thursday with assault in connection with Wokabi's death. Marwa said the charges will be changed from assault to murder. Read: Solvit security on the spot after guards murder Nyali banker Click here for the latest political news 