Embu county commissioner Esther Maina has warned principals discriminating against students from religious leanings that are different from those sponsoring their schools. A school in Embu North recently rejected an Akorino student who reported to From One with a turban. Maina said principals must run the schools in accordance with the Education Act which allows students to be enrolled in any school regardless of their religious affiliations. She said the principal will face disciplinary charges. "It is unfortunate that Embu became the first county to have a student rejected from school because of her religious beliefs," Maina said. Maina, who is also the chairperson of the County's Education Board, said principals must take responsibility for their actions. She was speaking in Kangaru High School where she launched textbooks valued at Sh63 million. She ordered that the Akorino student be unconditionally admitted. There have been complaints that Akorino students were being discriminated against in various schools in the region. Last year, Akorino church leaders complained that students from their faith were being mistreated in secondary schools sponsored by other churches. African Mission Church Archbishop Andrew Mbogo and his colleague from Holy Spirit Church Julius Njiru said students where being forced to remove their turbans in the schools. Speaking in Mathai village, the religious leaders said the discrimination was unacceptable and called for its end. They said the actions were against the Constitution, which is against any form of discrimination. They said it was cruel to bar Akorino students from wearing their turbans while Muslims students were allowed to learn in their religious attires. “We should be accorded our rights as a church. It is our children's right to be followers of the church," Mbogo said. Njiru said this kind of discrimination was not there before and wondered where it has come from and asked that it stops with immediate effect. He said there were many instances where students from the church have been forced to remove their turbans as they are not acceptable in the schools. “The Akorino church should be treated like any other other religion in the country. It is unacceptable that our students are harassed all over,” Njiru said. He said Akorino leaders would make a formal complaint to the Ministry of Education to end the discrimination. Click here for the latest political news 