Mount Kenya powerbrokers are fighting for the Devolution Cabinet post as succession politics take scentre stage. Those who spoke to the Star yesterday said the position is strategic and gives the occupant great influence at the grassroots. The elites say that after President Uhuru Kenyatta named Fred Matiang’i to the powerful Interior CS, the occupant of the equally powerful Devolution docket will succeed him. “There is a vacuum. It takes years of hard work and commitment to have a successor,” lawyer Peter Kagwanja said. The elites — the business community and politicians — want to have one of their own in State House in 2022, either as President or Deputy President, to protect their interests. Read: Why Uhuru, Ruto failed to name full Cabinet after daylong wait  They say the Devolution post, if successfully executed, offers a direct ticket to State House and whoever gets it is potential heir of the President. The seat is occupied held by CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, believed to be Uhuru’s righthand man in Mt Kenya, but he has faced tough resistance. Powerbrokers want the Devolution CS to be DP William Ruto’s running mate in 2022. However, if the Jubilee marriage fails, Mt Kenya elites say the appointee will have the blessings of the community to create a new party or coalition ahead of the  poll. The group has resources and access to power. But Meru Senator Mithika Linturi disagrees with them. “People should not be talking about succession. All Cabinet positions are equal, it depends on how you perform your duties,” he said. Linturi said there are more important things, such as constitutional reforms. Former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru resigned at the height of the NYS scandal, claiming ill health. She is now Kirinyaga governor. She is the Council of Governors’ vice chairperson and is favoured by some in Mt Kenya. A number of people are working hard behind the scenes to succeed Uhuru. They include Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, former Meru Governor Peter Munya and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo. Early this year, there were reports Munya may be appointed Lands CS. But lobbying and consultation will influence whoever is appointed. In the succession debate, people from Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Meru and Embu want to have one of their own in one of the two top- seats. Click here for latest political news