An attempt by the Communication Authority to block live coverage of the swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President failed as Kenyans turned to other media outlets to follow proceedings. The broadcasting signals of NTV, KTN and Citizen were switched off. But Kenyans watched the live coverage on social media and international TV channels. Citizen TV was the first to be switched off at around 10am followed by NTV. At the time, KTN was still streaming live in Uhuru Park, while on NTV Ken Mijungu was reporting live. Read : News bosses differ over Uhuru threat on Raila's swearing in coverage Watched on Viusasa By the time of going to press, the media stations’ free to air and paid platforms were still switched off. CA cut off the ADN signals in Limuru just as they were beginning to live stream. Radio stations in various parts of the country were also affected. The shutdown, however, did not deter Kenyans from following the swearing-in. A majority accessed other airwaves such as Viusasa and live feeds in the internet. According to a Telkom engineer, only stations that cover live events were affected by CA move. Vincent Korir said KBC and K24 were not affected because they complied with the government’s directive not to cover Raila’s oath. Royal Media Services managing director Waruru Wachira said the CA disconnected Citizen and Inooro TV transmission yesterday morning. “There was no official communication. We are engaging relevant state authorities to establish the reason for this action, and resume normal transmission as soon as possible,” he said in a statement. Outdated methods Media lobby groups reacted to the shutdown, terming it dictatorial. The Media Council of Kenya CEO, David Omwoyo, said it is regrettable. He said it is a cumulation of serious conflict in the media that needs to be handled systematically. Also read : CA shuts down Citizen, NTV ahead of Raila swearing-in Kenya Union of Journalists secretary general Erick Oduor said it is unacceptable, and this can only reinforce the view that the media is facing the worst threat in the history of this country. “We believe this is part of an orchestrated plan to close civic space and deny Kenyans any rights to free expression and assembly,” Kenya Correspondents Association chairman William Janak said. He warned against any moves to close down media stations or intimidate individual journalists. However, Media Owners Association chairman Hanningtone Gaya justified the switch off, saying it is for the country’s good. “Whoever has done it definitely had a good reason to do so. Security of a country is more important than that of an individual,” he said. The Law Society of Kenya has written to the Communications Authority demanding an explanation as to why broadcasting signals were switched off. Chairman Isaac Okero said it is appalling that CA decided to interfere with the independence of the media guaranteed in the Constitution. He said the government needs to respect the freedom of the media guaranteed in Article 34 of the Constitution, the right of the public to information (Article 35 ) and desist from outdated methods of repression. Limit freedoms “I wonder what other provisions of the Constitution will be contravened. Soon they will switch off our internet. Kenya will be no different from Iran,” he said Rights groups such as the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights has called for credible and expeditious investigations into illegal switch off of television broadcasting rights. KNCHR chair Kagwiria Mbogori said the shutdown is a clear indication a lot needs to be done for all leaders to respect and adhere to the tenets and spirit of the Constitution and the existing relevant media legislations. “We, therefore, call upon the government to reassure Kenyans that no measures; legal, regulatory or extra-judicial shall be taken to limit the constitutionally guaranteed freedoms of the Press,” reads Her statement. The International Centre for Policy and Conflict termed as dictatorial the government move to shut down independent media houses. Populist authoritarian Executive director Ndung’u Wanaina said the President is an emerging populist authoritarian, who is dangerously attacking media freedom. “The populist authoritarian Kenyatta regime must tell the world what it intends to do by shutting media. This unconstitutional and unacceptable attack on the right to freedom of expression and access to information is outrageous and absurd. Only a despotic, illegitimate government does so,” he said. On Twitter Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju said, “The people’s President should switch the TVs back on so that his deputy can stop complaining the state has switched off TVs and while at it, reinstate their security detail .........unless of course he is a President without portfolio.” NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya tweeted, “It has been my position the country has been captured by a dictatorship. It is our collective responsibility to uproot this junta. Now more than ever. Freedom is coming”