The failed campaign to ban bull taming in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu has dented support for the animal rights movement and forced local activists to lie low out of fear, as Swaminathan Natarajan reports from Madurai. So-called Jallikattu contests have been popular in this region for centuries but were banned by the Supreme Court in 2014 after objections from animal rights groups. Mass protests in support of the contests in January led to a new law overturning the ban. In the year since then Jallikattu has restarted in many places in and around the temple town of Madurai, but the fall-out from the ban means that formerly welcoming villagers are now reluctant and sometimes even afraid to talk to strangers. They say clandestine filming and selective editing by animal rights groups has given them a bad name. People carrying cameras are stopped and asked the purpose of their visit. "Our office is near one of the Jallikattu venues," says an official working with an Indian animal rights group. "Some locals suspect us of providing evidence of torture to Peta [People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals]. We know there is a lot of hostility and mistrust." He refuses to talk in detail about the Jallikattu controversy and wants to remain anonymous. Such is the level of fear. Madurai has a population of more than 1.5 million people. As in so much of India, many stray animals crowd the streets. Every evening it is common to see people offering temple elephants coins in return for blessings. Begging with elephants is illegal, but the practice continues. And much more serious mistreatment of animals goes on openly too. Cows can be seen eating plastic waste; live birds are hung upside down and moved from one place to another by motorcycle; dogs and cats are pelted with stones by children; and bulls and donkeys are worked to exhaustion. But the city has no animal rescue centre. "We rented a place to keep abandoned stray dogs but neighbours complained about the noise levels and we had to leave. We are still asking the government to allot land for an animal shelter," says the same animal rights official. Madurai does have a government-run veterinary hospital which provides free treatment, and a few private clinics which charge for their services. "Just a few months ago Madurai got two ambulances for animals," says another animal rights campaigner, who also requested anonymity out of fear of repercussions. "This helps to an extent to treat animals involved in traffic accidents,"