Murang’a MCAs have resolved to put aside their
differences and work together for the benefit of development. The county lawmakers also agreed to withdraw court cases against each other that were filed following their fistfights in the assembly. During a meeting organised by the Jubilee Party and the county government in Mombasa on Friday, the ward representatives also promised to advance the party's agenda. The Jubilee administration, under President Uhuru Kenyatta, has identified food security, housing, manufacturing and universal health as its Big Four agenda for the second term. Seven MCAs who were elected on other party tickets also agreed to work with Jubilee. The resolutions came after months of
assembly infighting over leadership positions during which Majority leader Eric Kamande was dethroned and his position taken by Amos Murigi. Chief whip Simon Wamwea was also replaced with
nominated MCA Joyce Wambui during a Jubilee party assembly caucus meeting that
turned chaotic in Kiambu last month. Both Kamande and Wamwea were accused of poor leadership. On November 27 last year, the MCAs also stormed
the office of the clerk in a failed attempt to evict him.  They accused Chris Kinyanjui of delaying their perks and allowances. Nine MCAs are facing charges of creating
disturbances over the fights while 18 others have been summoned by the EACC. Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju said the leadership changes were invalid. He asked the MCAs to end their wrangles. “It's good that the MCAs have agreed to move past
their differences and concentrate on development which the most important
thing,” Tuju said. He said the party’s disciplinary committee will decide
what action it will take against MCAs who engaged in fights. Tuju also said the party does not recognise Simon Gikuru as its Murang'a chairman. “The party will decide what to do with him as a
member since he has not been deregistered,” Tuju said. Gikuru organised the chaotic Kiambu meeting. Governor Mwangi Wairia said he was looking forward to working with the MCAs. “I am happy that the party intervened with
urgency required before these issues blew up and cause major problems,” Wairia
said. Wa Iria also lauded the MCAs for forgiving each
other and agreeing to withdraw court cases on a negotiated platform to
concentrate on implementing the jubilee government development agenda. “We have agreed to pass a supplementary budget to
accommodate the four agendas as the lead expenditures,” Wa Iria noted.   