Baby Winnipa Nyaboke is a picture of health as she frolics around Gukipimo village in Kuria West, Migori county. The area grapples with high maternal, infant and children under-five mortality rates, mostly caused by poor sanitation. Nyaboke is a ‘model child’ in a community of farmers served by 150 community health volunteers. The volunteers, contracted by the NGO Nuru Kenya, help residents improve their lifestyles. “During our meetings as farmers, we noted high infant and pregnancy deaths. We used the established networks of farmers to get volunteers to reverse the trend,” volunteer Alice Kenyanya, Nyaboke’s grandmother, says. She says after initial training, she insisted that Nyaboke’s mother, who is her daughter-in-law, attends prenatal clinics at least four times. “She was part of 17 households under the farmers unit. I had to work on promoting healthy lifestyles, which includes giving birth at the hospital instead of through traditional birth attendants,” says the granny, who doubles up as a traditional midwife. Kenyanya says after birth, Nyaboke took all six vaccinations, including Vitamin A supplements, until nine months of age, as stipulated by the government. “We noticed that pregnant women visiting hospitals have increased from 30 per cent to over 85 per cent. The number only dipped later in the year during the prolonged nurses’ strike,” Kenyanya says. She says Nyaboke was taken through six months’ exclusive breastfeeding, without feeding on anything after birth. “We realised she started walking, talking and was brighter compared to other children. Nyaboke is among several model children we use to help other members change their lifestyle,” she says. HEALTHY LIFESTYLES Nuru Kenya programme officer Victor Simon says they have reached over 140,000 residents in Kuria through the programme, which includes monthly barazas with locals. Simon says the healthy lifestyles they are advocating include delivering in hospitals by pregnant women, at least four antenatal clinic visits to check progress of pregnancy, and infants to be fully breastfed. “We encourage mothers, through volunteers, to keep tabs and ensure their children are fully immunised. Homesteads are also encouraged to build toilets and wash hands regularly when handling food to avoid cholera and diarrhoea, which are major causes of infant mortality,” he says. According to the Kenya Expanded Programme on Immunisation (Kepi), a child is considered fully immunised after a series of vaccinations, which end at nine months with measles and yellow fever vaccines. Apart from Kepi, which is under all government-owned hospitals and dispensaries, other vaccines offered in private hospitals include flu, chicken pox, meningitis, typhoid and MMR (mumps, measles and rubella), which should end by two years of age. Simon says when they rolled out the programme in 2013 in Kuria, only 55.6 per cent of mothers delivered in hospitals, a figure which changed to 92 per cent among targeted groups by the end of 2017. The number of pregnant women having at least four antenatal clinic visits increased by 20 points to over 80.6 per cent in the same period. Equally, homesteads with latrines increased from 63 to 83 per cent, with those constructing handwashing machines increasing from 45 to 62 per cent. INVOLVEMENT OF MIDWIVES Simon says the biggest boost was putting in programmes of traditional birth attendants like Kenyanya, who work closely with local clinics to refer their clients. “Some even help medics in delivery,” he says. Jane Ghati, 86, is another example. We find her leading a woman in labour carried by her two relatives to Getong’oroma Dispensary. Ghati opens the door to the maternity ward and helps lay the woman on an empty bed. She tells the team to wait for the clinical officer in charge. Ghati explains later that the woman came to have traditional delivery, and “I referred her here”. She has been a midwife in the village of her birth for over 60 years, and can count four generations of children she has helped deliver. “I learnt the practice from my grandmother, who taught my mother before it was passed down to me. Most villagers trust me during pregnancy, although I have moved them to hospitals as life changes,” Ghati says. She was trained by the organisation in 2013 on advantages of antenatal clinic visits and delivering in hospitals. “I used to deduce the exact position of the child at birth by hand, but even though I was skilled, I realised there is a risk of death for both mother and child. Equally, most mothers who give birth with us completely ignore vaccinations, which are free,” Ghati says. At her home, Ghati fishes out an exercise book with names of women she has referred to the local dispensary. It also lists the names and birthdays of their children. She had 495 referrals by December 23. She hit the 500 mark by the end of 2017. “I am happy I helped these women, most referred from several villagers to clinic. I hope they will see the benefit of giving birth in hospital for safety and health reasons,” Ghati says. ACCESS TO TOILETS Kuria East and Kuria West subcounties have a combined population of 253,920, as par the last census, with almost half of the number (106,528) being below five years. A research in 2013 found that 71.9 per cent of residents in Kuria West and 80 per cent in Kuria East are using unsafe water, with an average of 42.8 per cent in the two regions having no form of sanitation and access to toilets. The study was done by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and Society of International Development. It was titled ‘Exploring Kenya’s Inequality: Pulling Apart or Pooling Together?’ “Poor sanitation has been the main cause of deaths in infants and mothers, especially during pregnancy. We need to change this through changing the perceptions of residents,” iHope Foundation director David Maganya says. The group works with community units, a group of volunteers similar to the ones in Nuru, to reach the society with health promotion messages. He said on December 1, health and sanitation stakeholders in Migori county chose Getong’anya in Kuria as the venue of celebrations for World Toilet Day. Maganya said the county loses Sh800 million annually, which is more than the entire Health department budget, to treating diseases caused by poor sanitation, mainly lack of proper toilets and untreated water supply. Deputy Public Health Officer Tom Odhon’g says 36 per cent of Migori residents still use bushes and open fields for defecation. “Improving sanitation and hygiene not only generates considerable economic benefits but also makes for a better living environment,” Odhon’g said. Amref, through Chuodho Women’s Group, celebrated 75 villages in Kuria West that had attained open defecation-free status by community drive to ensure all homesteads have at least a pit latrine. The project distributed 4,800 handwashing facilities in the villages, and trained 60 opinion leaders to ensure community watering points are kept safe from defecation. Four schools and four hospitals were installed with proper toilets as demonstration centres for villagers. The toilet construction followed rampant cases of cholera outbreak and other waterborne diseases caused by poor sanitation. Improved sanitation has also seen increased enrollment of girls by one thirds, and increased academic performance by 25 per cent.