Mombasa's eighteen chief officers will be vetted Monday, almost a month after the swearing-in of executives. Fourth and fifth county assembly service board members will also be interviewed on that day. The two county assembly board members - Swabir Abdalla (fourth member) and Lynette Kamadi (fifth member) - were selected from a pool of applicants who were interviewed on November 6 and 7. "The successful two nominees are now hereby invited for the vetting exercise by the assembly's appointment committee,"  assembly clerk Salim Juma said on Friday. Read: Joho nominates 18 chief officers, 2 assembly board members Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho nominated the 20 chief officers and the clerk listed them last week. In a newspaper advert, Juma said interviews will be conducted in committee room one. Abdulwahan Mbarak was selected to be trade CO. Asha Abdi was considered for the finance and economic planning department and Tuni Mwakulumbi for education. Joho nominated Abdirahim Farah to be youth and gender department's CO as well as Jeophita Mwajuma for energy, environment and solid waste management. Mwajuma's docket is crucial. She will need to come up with an effective plan to clean Mombasa. The department's executive Godfrey Nyongesa seems overwhelmed and has been unable to tackle waste threat after taking power. His two-month stint has been riddled with challenges - impounding of garbage trucks, deaths because of cholera and chikungunya outbreak due to waste pile ups and illegal dumping. More on this: Joho blames private waste collectors after cholera, chikungunya outbreaks Other COs are Francis Kombe (water), Albert Keno (transport), Thomas Moyo (infrastructure), Uzel Mazera (fisheries) and Justina Mwikya (devolution and public administration). Juliana Cherera has been nominated to be the chief officer in the governor's office while Khamis Kurichwa, Khadija Shikely and Rajab Babu's departments have been nominated to the culture, medical services and sports offices. Other COs are Aisha Abubakar (public health), Rozina Wasoi (agriculture and livestock), Ilhan Abbas (investments) and Jaffar Mohsen (housing and physical planning). Click here for the latest political stories