Veteran politician Jackson Kibor has been sucked into a fresh land row with his family. Police in Eldoret are investigating Kibor over the destruction of property belonging to his daughter-in-law. He deflated the wheels of his daughter-in-law’s stationary tractor on a 2,000-acre farm at the centre of a dispute between Kibor and his sons. He used sharp spikes mounted on one of his Land Cruisers, which he says are for protecting himself after his pistol was taken by the police. “My sons are still misbehaving by interfering with my property and I will not allow that to happen,” Kibor said. He said the land in question belongs to him, not his sons. “They want to rob me of the land, but I will not accept that,” the farmer said following the Friday incident. The daughter-in-law, identified as Jane Kibor, reported the incident to police at Ziwa, where the matter is being investigated. Eldoret West police boss Samwel Mutunga said the probe is on. “If it is confirmed that he destroyed property that does not belong to him he will be taken to court,” Mutunga said. Kibor was arrested last year after he used his licensed pistol to shoot at one of his sons during a row over the same land. He was disarmed and charged in court.  The 86-year-old politician has a pending case in court with his son over the land. Last November, he won a divorce case against his second wife Josephine, whom he accused of cruelty and interfering with his land at Kipkabus. Josephine has been Kibor’s wife for 52 years. She opposed the divorce and appealed against it. Eldoret chief magistrate Charles Obulutsa granted Kibor’s application for divorce, saying the politician had proved claims of hostility against him by Josephine. “I will live longer now that she is out of my life,” Kibor said after the divorce was granted. He publicly asked his sons to keep off his assets because he struggled to acquire them when he was young. “I am the one who will decide whether to give them part of it. They cannot take it themselves,” said Kibor, who has three wives.