The Jubilee administration plans a ruthless response to the swearing-in of NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyioka tomorrow. Multiple sources in government told the Star yesterday that the state would deploy hundreds of police officers across the city to prevent NASA supporters from coming into Uhuru Park and the Central Business District. Last evening, the security chiefs were considering detaining the NASA leaders in their houses, even as they placed the coalition’s principals under 24-hour surveillance. Read: Uhuru Park a no-go zone for NASA, Koome says ahead of Raila oath Deputy President William Ruto yesterday issued a stern warning to NASA and ordered police to act firmly on anyone who would attempt to conduct a swearing-in ceremony. Speaking at the Redeemed Gospel Church in Buruburu, Nairobi county, where he attended church service, Ruto said it was time wananchi and leaders worked together with a view to moving the country forward. He told Kenyans to ignore those engaged in “meaningless politics and activities”. Ruto said, “We have had one year deciding who will be Member of Parliament, who will be President and so on. It’s now time to serve Kenyans.” But as Ruto issued his warning, the NASA leaders said they were not intimidated and would go ahead with their ceremony. “They can threaten as much as they want. The people of Kenya have resolved that no other election will be stolen. They can arrest and/or kill us if they want,” NASA leader Raila Odinga said. Read: Ruto to Kenyans: Ignore 'irrelevant' NASA oath nasa plans According to a tentative plan, NASA plans to start its function at 10am tomorrow in Uhuru Park.  The first item will be prayers from Christian and Muslim leaders. It will then be followed by a brief speech by a senior lawyer, who will explain why they have gathered. Raila and Kalonzo will then be invited to take the oath of office as the People’s President and Deputy President. It was not clear yesterday what exact words the two will utter, but sources in NASA’s planning team said they will not be similar to the ones Uhuru and Ruto took. “They will swear allegiance to the People’s Republic,” NASA CEO Norman Magaya said. Atwoli advises Uhuru Yesterday, Cotu secretary General Francis Atwoli asked President Uhuru to let NASA proceed with the planned swearing-in to avoid an ugly confrontation between the police and its supporters. “We don’t want the country to deteriorate into chaos because of confrontations between NASA supporters and security personnel deployed to stop the swearing-in of Mr Odinga and Mr Musyoka,” he said. Atwoli had earlier opposed the planned oath-taking and instead lobbied for dialogue. “Since President Kenyatta does not want to meet the opposition for dialogue, he should not send the police to Uhuru Park to stop the swearing-in ceremony. He should let NASA proceed with the swearing-in and then look at what [happens] next. That way, we will have peace,” he said. The Cotu chief said intimidating Raila would only prove futile, as the NASA leader is battle-hardened and has fought the previous regimes without fear. “Uhuru should know that Raila is a fearless guy, who disturbed previous regimes, including his own father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga,” he said. Meanwhile, Atwoli added that Cotu is still ready to steer the talks between NASA and Jubilee, saying the hard lines taken by the political outfits will hurt the economy. Read: Don't provoke Raila by stopping Tuesday oath, Atwoli tells Uhuru anti-oath politicians speak up Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja (NASA) and Redeemed Gospel Church Archbishop Arthur Kitonga said the election was over and Kenya did not want to witness chaos or bloodshed but harmony and development. The leaders said the purported swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo was a ploy by NASA leaders to cause chaos and sabotage the economy. They said issues of electoral justice were determined and settled by the Supreme Court, as Kenyans “ultimately elected President Uhuru and DP Ruto”. Samboja said although he was elected on the ticket of one of the NASA affiliate parties, he does not support activities that are meant to disrupt the peace. “I support President Kenyatta, who was elected by Kenyans. We don’t want to see chaos and violence as some people seem to advocate,” he said. “It is important for us, elected leaders, to preach peace in the country. We will not achieve our development goals through demonstrations.” Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, Samboja, MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Maina Kamanda (nominated), Charles Njagua (Starehe), Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central), Charles Gakuya (Embakasi North) and Simon Mbugua (EALA) urged police to protect Nairobi residents and property from “NASA hooligans”. They said the Constitution “is very clear on how to elect and install a leader”. Read: Oath is on, Raila says after pre-inauguration fanfair in Homa Bay Click here for the latest political news