Manchester City Vs Burnley, Today 6pm,  My Prediction: Citizens....2 Burnley...1 This is one of the few all Premier League teams’ ties in the FA Cup third and I’m looking forward to it given how Burnley have been playing and showing the big boys that they aren’t afraid of them. But this is Man City, who are unbeaten in the league this season and even though they are in four competitions, they have a wide and gifted squad. City beat Burnley 3-0 in the league in October. But City must be beaten at some point and Burnley have impressed so much so that they sit seventh in the league. They drew 2-2 recently against Manchester United and this is a Cup tournament. Manager Pep Guardiola will put a second string side but his second string could even be in the top four of the league if they were a totally different team. I’m going with a very slim City win but Burnley will give them a tough game. Norwich City Vs Chelsea, Today 8:30pm, My Prediction: Norwich... 0 Blues....3 So Norwich City currently sit 13th in the Championship with nine wins—ten losses and seven draws. Not impressive at all. Infact, their manager Daniel Farke has been facing a player revolt and has been accused of overtraining his players— a move they say has led to their poor form. So this is a perfect time for a team like Chelsea to be playing them because they have little to offer. The discussion around the Blues this week has been the poor form of Alvaro Morata but Antonio Conte still has an impressive side that won’t go down this week in the FA Cup. He can even play his second string side and still thrash this team. The fixture is a boring no brainer that I probably won’t watch.  Nottingham Forest Vs Arsenal, Tomorrow 7pm, My Prediction: Forest ....1 Gunners.....3 Nottingham Forest was a team to reckon with in the 50’s and 70’s but we are in the year 2018 my friends. Right now, they are Championship regulars and rarely challenge to come up to the Premier League. Basically, they have nothing to offer. They are 14th in the Championship table with 10 wins and 14 losses so far this season. They haven’t won a game in their last five league matches with three being outright losses. Meanwhile, the Gunners have been playing decently but not over 90 minutes. Arsenal tend to turn up for about 70 minutes of a 90 minute game and that’s frustrating. The Gunners should have beaten Chelsea midweek and should have beaten Manchester United a few weeks back but small blunders have cost us big. Given the crazy Christmas fixture schedule, manager Arsene Wenger will rest his big boys and put a second string side. This isn’t all bad given how the “second string side” demolished BATE Borisov 6-0 last time out. Arsenal have this in the bag.