Social media, assuming Messaging Apps are also part of it, will literally rule the world in 2018. This is not just a prediction; it is a picture of the reality that is taking shape. Already Virtual reality is being tested, augmented reality has begun taking shape and there is Chat Bots - Now you need to Google those three terms and you will understand the major changes that are coming on Social Media. The fight on Fake Accounts is also about to get very serious, especially on Twitter. If you forget everything that I will discuss in this article, remember this fact, Messaging Apps in 2017 have overtaken Social Media platforms in terms of usage.   CHATBOTS Chattiest Magazine has the best description of ChatBots; "A chatbot is a service, powered by rules and sometimes artificial intelligence, that you interact with via a chat interface. The service could be any number of things, ranging from functional to fun, and it could live in any major chat product (Facebook Messenger, Slack, Telegram, Text Etc.) Let me attempt to make it simpler, brands have no choice but to move from posting updates to interacting with messaging Apps where the people are. So, for example, you will be able to buy shoes from the Bata Messenger App. the ChatBot will ask what colour of shoe you want, type of shoe and the size, it will then suggest a few options and after choosing and paying to give you options on delivery or collection. Bots will also enable brands with hundreds of Messenger or DM messages to respond and interact as if it is a human interaction. The advantage is that you can create a Bot within 20 minutes and you do not have to be an Artificial Intelligence expert to be able to do it. Already Facebook says we have 100,000 bots active and integrated into pages. Bots have moved from being mere robots to personalized experiences. There is even a bot for news, check CNN Facebook page to experience it, you can literally subscribe to a newsbot like you do to breaking SMS alerts and it will let you know of any news you want from across the world.   Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality Virtual Reality, especially on FB and Instagram, will be big.  Remember, FB at one time bought a Virtual Reality hardware called Oculus and there is no doubt that 2018 will be the year that is put to use.  VR will open up a whole new world of marketing and interaction between users and brands. Already you can log in to Facebook Spaces and experience 3d and virtual reality.  To understand the future of VR you need to log in to House Parties and you will notice where FB is headed with the new addition on its platform that may be a game changer in 2018. Hang Outs are popular because of the connection and the fact that a platform is now available to link out via video will increase opportunities for creative marketing and Online Public Relations. For Political Rallies, Spaces will literally rewrite the game online. Augmented reality has two sides a positive one for business and fun, especially comedy, but also the risk of increasing Fake News Apps to achieve that are already available and usage is increasing sharply by the day.   INSTAGRAM STORIES Whereas Instagram stories have pulled out a key attractive feature of Snap chat, it is proving to be the next Launchpad for marketing and advertising.  Already the one-year-old Instagram stories have overtaken Snap chat in terms of use and popularity and the addition of 3D and Virtual Reality will just increase visibility and options for Instagram Stories usage and uptake. This trend is an indicator that the announcement approach to social media will slowly die as for users embrace conversational approaches to Social Media.  Brands or celebrities who just update and communicate issues without interaction and responses are headed to slower growth online.   FAKE NEWS Twitter has started an aggressive war on Fake Accounts and accounts that are notoriously flagged for publishing and spreading Fake News. The move is expected to get even more aggressive in 2018.  Facebook has also announced similar measures as the war on Fake News hits fever pitch. Digital strategists are crossing the year with a new research that has identified that Millenials are not the most engaged users online.  We have a new group, Generation Z. I am still reading about them, quite a generation, quite the preferences and quite an attention span they have. Let us meet online, Government will also significantly change how it handles online communication and you will see more Social Media First info and products long before they go mainstream because most of them affect the generation that is online. Most importantly, Government will rebrand from merely an institution online to an interactive person, able to spot issues and complains immediately and deal with them swiftly long before they mutate into campaigns and activist hashtags.   God bless your digital clicks and innovations this year   Click here for the latest political news   