Impala Saracens coach Frank Ndong has heaped praise on the team’s defensive discipline following a rare 10-8 win over rivals Quins in the Ngong Road derby. It was Impala’s first win over their rivals in the Kenya Cup since 2014 and Ndong could not hide his joy. “In our last two games last year, we conceded a lot of tries but I am glad we showed character and grit and credit goes to the boys for the excellent performance,” said Ndong. Ismael Mokaya and Ian Minjire scored a try each for the winners, both of which were unconverted despite Quinto Ongo’s attempts. Aaron Oforworth and Eric Shikuku bagged a penalty and an unconverted try respectively for the losers. Quins coach Joe Nganga, who saw his side lose for the second successive weekend — after losing to Kabras 22-13 ­— said they were jittery and poor in execution. “I thought the players were too jittery. I don’t know if the occasion got to them but we did not execute well in both attack and defence and we have go back to the drawing board this week in training and improve before we face KCB over the weekend,” said Nganga. Impala remain third on the log with 24 points while Quins are fifth with 18 points six matches into the season. The row between the Kenya Referees Society and Kenya Rugby Union came to the fore as the referees’ body refused to second officials to the encounter. The home side were forced to provide referees, who were accused of poor officiating including failure to spot forward passes, knock ons and infringements in the tense encounter. Champions KCB continued their unbeaten start to the season, beating Mwamba 27-15 in the bankers’ derby at the Railway Club, to stay top with 29 points. Francis Mwita, Peter Kilonzo, Martin Owila, Elly Mukaizi and Nelson Nyandat crossed over for the bankers with Elphas Otieno adding the sole conversion. Kabras stayed second on 28 points following a 40-20 demolition of Nondies at the Jamhuri Park Showground. Homeboyz bounced back from their defeat to KCB last week to edge out hosts Nakuru 23-16 as Blak Blad beat Resolution Kisii 24-8.