The NLC has finally given the green light for the construction of a sea wall near Fort Jesus by the National Museums of Kenya to prevent the iconic structure from falling. Fort Jesus, recognised as a Unesco World Heritage Site, employs thousands of Kenyans directly and indirectly. It also provides revenue to both the Mombasa county and the national governments through tourism. According to NMK director general Mzalendo Kibunjia, the construction of the sea wall is to prevent the fort from being eroded by the sea water.The fort has no real foundation as it was built on a rock. NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri yesterday said the idea is noble and the commission will support it. Erosion has also ruined the Vasco da Gamma pillar in Malindi and Jumba la Mtwana in Mtwapa. risk of erosion The NMK says something must be done or else all heritage sites at the Coast will be eroded. “In 500 years, the sea has eroded almost two acres of land in front of Fort Jesus. I don’t know in the next 500 years how much it will erode the rest of the town,” Kibunjia said. Swazuri said out of 62 functions of the commission, 11 are to protect historical and ecological sites. “The oversight that was here is that we were neither informed nor involved. We have had sittings with them and it has been established that it is no longer a question of reclamation, but restoring the old wall,” he said. Last Thursday, Governor Hassan Joho and Swazuri stormed the site of the Sh498 million project and ordered it stopped. Joho said the NMK had gone against the agreement made when they applied to construct the wall by reclaiming two acres of ocean water. Kibunjia said the NMK is not reclaiming any land. “We are restoring a wall that was actually built by the Portuguese 500 years ago to protect the fort,” he said. Kibunjia continued, “Five hundred years ago when Fort Jesus was built by the Portuguese, the high water mark, which should mark the boundary of this property, was 20 metres away from where it is today.” He said due to erosion by sea water over the years, the high water mark is at the foundation of the fort. Kibunjia said cracks have started foming on the fort and the base is being destroyed. “If we don’t build a protective wall around this fort, very soon Fort Jesus will fall into the ocean,” he said. Kibunjia said dry land is needed for the restoration of the wall. Swazuri said the commission has had meetings with the NMK and the county government.     