NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi yesterday said he remains opposed to the Big Man’s Syndrome and will continue to push for electoral justice.
The ANC leader said in a statement he will not bow down to those in power, but will ensure Kenyans get the right leaders in the coming polls.
“We regret the return of suppression of democracy and the shrinking space for freedom of conscience, thought and expression as manifested in harassment of journalists, the emasculation of civil society and invasion of private space and violation of the individual by the State,” Musalia said in his end year statement. Read: Mudavadi claims Uhuru wants to remove presidential term limit
He said he is focused on equality and good leadership.
“Equally, we regret the invasion of the Legislature by the Executive and conversion of Parliament into a State rubber stamp, through the incongruity of the so-called tyranny of numbers,” Musalia said.
The principal said the opposition’s calls for dialogue has been spurned and NASA will come down heavily in 2018 to push for good governance and the respect to the rule of law.
The principal warned that Jubilee is focused on negating and reversing all gains and promises of the new Constitution. “We remain committed to a free and equitable society where the fruit of our labour is the source of our pride,” he said.
He said the Jubilee administration is bullying independent-minded governors in opposition strongholds to demand support.
“We are also witnesses to a sinister ploy to starve county governments of funds to bring them to their knees,” he said. Read: Drop in Uhuru votes exposes Jubilee-IEBC fraud, says Mudavadi Musalia asked Kenyans to work together and save the country from destruction by the Jubilee administration.  “Those who choose to underrate us and ignore our peaceful overtures must prepare to meet us in other arenas. The choices before us are numerous and varied. We will weigh our options and work with our partners in NASA to restore Kenya to order,” he said.
Musalia said credible polls will help Kenyans elect leaders who can stop corruption, nepotism and tribalism so that Kenyans can access good services in the public sector. “The New Year is going to be the Year of Accountability. We will push for accountability everywhere in public life,” he said.
“We had in mind the picture of a free, fair and equitable society. Unfortunately, the Jubilee government is irredeemably bent on negating and reversing all the gains and promises of the new Constitution, once hailed as the most progressive constitutions globally.” Click here for the latest political news