2017 Sports Personality of the Year Award, Paralympian Samuel Muchai, believes his latest achievement will inspire him alot as he prepares for the Faza Grand Prix in Dubai in March. Speaking after receiving his award on Wednesday, Muchai said he will start training next month, observing that he feels encouraged to push himself further in representing the country. It was double delight for Muchai as he was also named the Sportsman living with disability. Immediately, Muchai acknowledged the contributions of his guide, James Boit. The duo won the T11 men’s 5,000m and 1,500m at the 2016 Rio Paralympic Games and replicated the feat at the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships in London last July. “I would like to thank James very much. He has been there with me throughout and without him, I wouldn’t be standing here,” said Muchai. “I will be starting my training next month with my focus on the Dubai Grand Prix as well as other championships in the new season.” He challenged the society to perceive persons with disabilities in a more positive way, adding that time has come for them to discard the view that such people are mere beggars in the community. Muchai beat world and Olympic 3,000m steeplechase champion Consenslus Kipruto, world 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri and Deaflympian Beryl Wamira to the prestigious award. Muchai becomes the third para athlete to win the overall title at the Soya awards, following in the footsteps of legendary long distance runner, Henry Wanyoike (2004) and Simon Cherono (2013). Kipruto bagged the men’s Sportsman of the Year award, edging out world champions Elijah Manangoi (1500m) and Geoffrey Kirui (marathon). Obiri took the women’s version, defeating world 1500m champion, Faith Chepngetich and world marathon silver medallist Edna Kiplagat. Kenya Under -19 cricket team went home with e sports team of the year award (men) with Gor Mahia (football) and KCB (rugby) second and third respectively. Kenya Lionesses bagged the women’s team of the year with national and Africa hockey champions, Telkom Kenya and Malkia Strikers taking second and third spots respectively. Kenya U-19 cricket coach Jimmy Kamande won the coach of the year award with Athletics Kenya winning the federation of the year award . Kenya under 19 cricket batsman Amos Gandhi won the most promising boy award while world U18 800m champion Jackline Wambui clinched the girls’ title.Former internationals Allan Thigo (football) and 1978 world flyweight boxing champion Stephen Muchoki were inducted into the Hall of Fame. The event was also sponsored by Kenya Power, Lotto Founation, NHIF, NSSF, Kenya Pipeline, Communication Authority, Multi Choice, SuperSport KICC and New KCC.