Kilifi county will be hit by severe drought by 2030 if proper measures are not taken, the weatherman has warned. The Meteorological department said drought is caused by climate change experienced across the globe. The department has urged the national and county governments and environmental non-state actors to urgently come up with proper strategies. Speaking during a three-day training on climate change at Pwani University, Kilifi Meteorological Services director Ramadhan Munga said heat levels in the county have been escalating. Rainfall has diminished because of human activities such as deforestation. “For more than 30 years the heat levels have been increasing at a high rate and rainfall decreasing annually. The rains are now short and start late. Trees are being cut down and very little land is still covered by trees and other vegetation,” Munga said. He added, “By 2030 the heat will have increased beyond our control and the amount of rainfall in Kilifi will not support or sustain food production.” Last year, the county recorded the highest temperature at 33°C. “This shows the low range is going lower and the high range increasing. If we do not take proper action to control the heat the county will not be able to produce enough food,” he said. Vegetation cover in Kilifi is low. Munga said it is important to plant more trees. Farmers were urged to invest in tree planting and dig dams. Ganze and Magarini subcounties are most affected. The two subcounties are huge producers of charcoal. The meteorological department is setting up fully equipped new weather centres to collect data. “We have automatic weather stations in Ganze and another one will be in Marafa. If no proper measures are put in place by 2030 the heat level will be very high,” he said. Kilifi county National Environment Management Authority officer Isaac Kimitei said the agency is implementing the County Environment Action Plan. It is also working to ensure the plan is factored in the County Integrated Development Plan. “If it is factored in the CIDP for five years we will get priority areas to work on,” Kimitei said. Click here for the latest political news