Kenyan players put up spirited fights at Nairobi Club to bag all Eastern African region slots to the prestigious African Junior Championships. The region will have Kenya to count on for success and recognition at the continental level, where the finals are slated for April in Tunisia. Kenya swept both boys and girls Under-14 and 16 age categories and subsequently earned the rights to represent Eastern Africa region in Tunisia. In the boys’ Under-16, Kenya beat Rwanda 3-0 with Derrick Ominde whipping Joseph Cyiza 6-3,6-4 and Ryan Randiek running over Berton Karenzi 6-1,6-3. The pair of Ominde and Suhail Hooker sealed victory in the doubles following their 6-4, 2-6, 10-7 win over a Rwandese pair of Karenzi and Emmanuel Ishimwe. Following the qualification to the African finals, Randiek was named the Kenya team captain to lead the home players and the region in Tunisia. “Considering the fact that this is my final year in the junior ranks, I feel honoured to be selected as the captain of the Kenyan team. Since we have qualified to represent the region as a country, we will give our best and soar to the European Tour. I want to sign off the junior ranks with a trophy in the singles and help both Kenya and the region in achieving a podium finish in the AJC,” said Randiek. Ominde on his part said: “I am happy to be part of the Kenyan team after missing out in the singles. It’s an honour for me and I want to work on my physical fitness ahead of the finals because I am sure in Tunis, we will meet the best from other regions. I want also to improve on my back-hand and service, where I have performed dismally of late.” A 2-0 win over Burundi ensured the Kenyan girls booked a place in the U-16 category in Tunisia. Angela Okutoyi taught Burundi’s Hoziane Kitambala tennis lessons, dropping a single game to post a 6-0,6-1 win. Her compatriot Sneha Kotecha had a nerve wrecking tie against Aisha Niyonkuru, where she escaped a scare to register a 6-1, 7-5. Sneha praised her opponent for the challenge and vowed to play more friendly matches as build-up. “She is always tough to beat. She challenged me but I stayed focused and secured a place in the Kenyan team. I want to play many friendly matches as a way of preparing for the AJC.” Kenyan boys in the U-14 age set had an easy outing over Rwanda, picking a 3-0 win. Jayson Mbogoro floored Junior Hakizumwami 6-0,6-2 while Kael Shah had easy ride over Junior Mfashingabo, whom he beat 6-1, 6-2. A pair of Brandon Sagala and Kael Shah humiliated a pair of Hakizumwami and Mfashingabo 6-2, 6-0. Shah, who lost to Mbogoro in the singles finals, could not hide his joy of making it to the African finals. “I am happy to be in the Kenyan team and the African finals. I want to go back to Spain and keep on training since the competition level is high in Spain.” Sagala’s only concern was his service. “I am happy to be in the team and I just want to improve on my service and physical fitness.”