  The High Court yesterday declined to revoke the suspension of the licence of a matatu sacco whose crew is accused of lynching a motorist. Justice Roseline Aburili said Marimba Investment Sacco had failed to exhaust available internal mechanism before approaching the court for intervention. The sacco wanted the judge to issue temporary orders pending the hearing of their case. Aburili said the sacco ought to have  appealed their suspension before the Transport Licence Appeal Board before going to court. She said the sacco could only go to court if it was aggrieved by the outcome of the appeal at the board. “The court cannot review an administration act unless all other internal mechanism set by law are fully exhausted,” Aburili said. Crew belonging to the sacco are accused of killing Joseph Kiarie after a scuffle. A matatu belonging to the sacco collided with Kiarie’s car on December 24, 2017 near Zimmerman in Nairobi. Kiarie was beaten and left lying on the road. He later died at the Neema Uhai Hospital where he was rushed for treatment. Following the killing, National Transport and Safety Authority director general Francis Meja suspended the licence of the sacco. Meja asked police to impound any vehicle belonging to the company if found operating. NTSA regulations require matatu saccos to have a code of conduct which guides its crew during working hours. The saccos are also obliged to ensure that drivers and conductors in its fleets do not harass passengers and members of the public. “By neglecting, refusing or failing to ensure the employees conduct themselves in accordance with the code of conduct, the company contravened the license,” Meja said. The sacco told the court the suspension of its operations was unreasonable and outrageous. Aburili said it failed to demonstrate that the court had jurisdiction to hear and determine the issues raised in the application. She said the court would be usurping the legal mandate bestowed on the licencing board if it went ahead to hear the case. Aburili also dismissed an argument by the sacco that the appeals board could not be fair because it belongs to NTSA. The judge said NTSA and the board are distinctive organs.