Lamu residents have not known or seen a tarmacked road for the last 55 years as previous regimes chose to ignore the region. All they have ever known is the dusty, muddy and potholed Lamu-Garsen road, which is the only road to and from Lamu on land. Residents have been pleading with each regime to build proper roads to improve movement and above all enable vehicles to easily flee whenever al shabaab strikes. But that appeared to be impossible until the Kenya Urban Roads Authority showed up last year. Early last year, KURA announced and commenced construction of the first-ever tarmac road in Lamu. The 15km road in Mokowe town in Lamu West will cost Sh1.1 billion. The road is already 10 per cent complete. Mokowe houses the county headquarters after the offices were moved from the Lamu Island last year. The road is expected to ease access to the offices. On Wednesday, KURA special programmes acting general manager Mohamed Abdulrashid said the road is expected to be complete by November next year. “We have completed tarmacking the first 1.5km,” he said. Mokowe township has started getting the buzz with many traders and businesses shifting base from Lamu town. Lamu Tourism executive Dismas Mwasambu said once complete, the road is expected to open up the town and the entire county to more trade and industrial activities. “This road alone has spurred economic development. We have seen growth in trade and many investors have been attracted to the town. We thank KURA for coming up and sponsoring such a mega project in our county. We know there is still more to be done,” he said. Mwasambu said improvement of the road network in Mokowe and in the entire county will also boost the trade and tourism by attracting more tourists. Residents are also upbeat that the road will open up more opportinuties for them, having already employed hundreds of youths as casuals in the project. “We have quite a huge number of youths employed for the construction of the road. But we are especially glad about the future. Mokowe will become the biggest business hub in the Coast. We can’t wait for that time to come,” resident Abdulrahman Abeid said.