President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to attend Harvard professor Calestous Juma's memorial service on Thursday. Uhuru and mourners including international scholars will gather at Holy Family Basilica in Nairobi. Juma, born on June 9, 1953, died in mid December last year, barely a week after his mother was buried. At the time of his death, he was Professor of the Practice of International Development at Harvard Kennedy School and Director of the Science, Technology, and Globalization Project at the Belfer Center. More on this: Kenyan Havard professor Calestous Juma is dead Also read: Top KCSE students to get Harvard University scholarships The scholar was born in Bunyala location to Clementina and John Juma. He was the fourth of 14 children, many of whom succumbed to malaria. Juma attended Port Victoria Primary School and John Osogo High School where he excelled in science and football and founded the school newspaper. He graduated from Egoji Teachers’ College in Meru in 1974, and became a science teacher in Mombasa, following his love for exposing young minds to new ideas and encouraging people to exceed their own expectations. His letters to the Editor of the Daily Nation newspaper gained national attention and he was hired by the Daily Nation in 1978 as one of the first science and environment newspaper journalists in Africa. Within a year, he had been recruited by Nobel laureate Professor Wangari Maathai, then chair of the Board of the Environment Liaison Centre International, to edit their Centre Report, later renamed Ecoforum. He won a scholarship from IDRC in Canada that enabled him to attend the University of Sussex, UK where, in 1983, he earned a Master of Science (MSc.) degree in Science, Technology and Industrialization focusing on solar photovoltaics. He subsequently received his Doctorate (DPhil.) in Science and Technology Policy Studies on the topic of energy and biotechnology in Zimbabwe, Kenya and Brazil - completing his dissertation in a record 2.5 years. Juma returned to Kenya in 1986, and in 1987 his first book Long-Run Economics, co-authored with Prof. Norman Clark, his supervisor at SPRU, was published. He married Alison Field in 1987, who he had met the previous year at an IUCN conference in Ottawa, Canada, when both were completing their graduate studies. Together they founded Initiatives Publishers in Nairobi in 1988, the first scholarly desktop publisher in eastern and southern Africa. In 1988, Juma founded the African Centre for Technology Studies in Nairobi. ACTS was the first of its kind, a policy research nongovernmental organization at a time when policy was seen as solely within the purview of government. In 2006, the scholar was awarded the honour of the Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear by President Mwai Kibaki for “being a respected international diplomat who has assisted governments to solve diplomatic problems”. Juma was also a thought-leader on social media, with 114,000 Twitter followers at the time of his death. He used Twitter to provide intellectual resources, encouragement, and humour to his global audience, to better leverage scientific and technological knowledge for poor and vulnerable communities around the world. The late Juma is survived by his wife Alison, son Eric and sister Roselyda Nanjala Kwada. Click here for the latest political news