Smoking shisha remains illegal as a judge has declined to temporarily lift the ban imposed by Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu. Milimani justice Roselyn Aburili instead asked petitioners to file an application for stay orders, that will be heard during an inter-parties hearing on Friday. On December 29, justice John Mativo directed the petitioners, who had sought orders to lift the ban, to file the main case and serve the CS and Attorney General Githu Muigai with court papers before the hearing on Thursday. Fifteen people led by Kennedy Langat, Maurice Obunga, Stephen Irungu, Vivian Shikweya and Henry Gitau moved to court a day after Mailu imposed the ban on the importation, promotion and use of Shisha in Kenya. Through their lawyers led by Victor Savula, they said the ban was unconstitutional and that it violated the rights of employees. They also said it left manufacturers with costs amounting to billions of shillings. They said they were among importers, manufacturers, sellers, promoters and users of shisha in the country. More on this: Mailu bans shisha smoking in Kenya, cites health risks Also read: Shisha smokers, traders move to court to challenge ban Smoking shisha is regulated under the Tobacco Act of 2007. An oriental tobacco pipe with a long flexible tube is connected to a container where tobacco smoke is burned then cooled by passing through water or other liquid. The Act allows use of tobacco products in secluded or specified places but does not ban the use of the product. Shisha-smoking had been legal before Mailu's ban, which the applicants said demonstrated selective application of the law and unfairness as other tobacco smokers are not affected. Langat, who runs Shisha Place Bar and Restaurant in Westlands, Nairobi, noted in a sworn statement that he has a licence for his business. He said the CS did not specify the diseases which can be transmitted through smoking. The businessman also said Mailu acted unreasonably because he did not give them a notice so they could avoid restocking and supplying the product. The petitioners the court to suspend the ban pending hearing and determination of their case. They said the minister's notice is erroneous and that it contravened the constitution and is discriminatory. Anyone found contravening the ban will be liable to a fine of at most Sh50,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or both. “No person shall import, manufacture, sell, offer for sale, use, advertise, promote, facilitate or encourage shisha smoking in Kenya,” the notice reads. Kenya’s ban came days after Rwanda became the second country in Africa to ban shisha-smoking. Tanzanian President John Magufuli imposed the ban in July 2016. Also read: Shisha ban: A doctor's view on why you should drop that 'dirty' pipe Click here for the latest political stories