Tourism stakeholders are optimistic 2018 will be a positive year for the sector as a fourth cruise ship since last October docked in Mombasa yesterday morning. Approximately over 2,791 tourists have arrived in Mombasa through cruise ship since October, according to data collected from the fours ships that have docked at port. Since September last year, the tourist sector has received a pleasing number of international guests arriving on board cruise ships, international scheduled flights and charter flights. “During the period under review, arrivals through Jomo Kenyatta International Airport grew by 11.1 per cent to record 655,569 compared to 589,958 in 2016 and 66,699 visitors through Moi International Airport compared to 65,600 in 2016,” said Tourism CS Najib Balala in a past interview. The Kenya coast, which was the most affected by the travel advisories and the cancellation of booking has received an unprecedented number of international arrivals. Norwegian vessel MS Nautica, registered in Bahamas, made its second call at the port of Mombasa yesterday with 962 passengers on board from Zanzibar in Tanzania heading to Seychelles. MS Nautica first docked in Mombasa on November 25 with 642 passengers from Marshall Islands in the North Pacific Ocean heading to Zanzibar. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers, Coast Executive Director Sam Ikwaye, told the Star the arrival of the cruise ship is a sign of confidence for the destination. “We are upbeat that 2018 will be a positive year for the tourism sector. The cruise ships have really helped the sector grow for the past few months,” said Ikwaye. He said the USA is expected to start direct flights to Kenya this year and Mombasa is also expected to host the Skal International Congress in October. Other cruise ships that have docked at the port of Mombasa this season include Omani luxury cruise ship christened Fulk Al Salamah (ship of peace) with 350 passengers on October 23 and world best known cruise ship, MS Silver Spirit on December 21 with 472 tourists and 365 crew members. Hajj Masemo, the Kenya Ports Authority senior corporate communication officer, said three more cruise ships will dock before the end of cruise ship season in March. “MS Silver is expected again at the end of this month. This is a show of confidence for this region,” said Masemo. KPA is expected to accomplish the construction of the Sh450 million modern cruise terminal before March, that will allow simultaneous berthing of two Oasis-class cruise ships. The new terminal will have state-of-the-art security features, an immigration centre, a hotel and accommodation facility and other social amenities.