Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro's bodyguard was shot and wounded and his father killed by thugs on Saturday night. GSU officer John Mungai, 27, was parking his car at his home at Kamuguga village, Kabete, while his father Stephen Mburu, 61, was closing the gate when they were attacked. The attackers brandished a pistol in the incident at about 8pm and told them to surrender their mobile phones and money, Mburu’s brother John Gatonye said on Sunday. Finding the money was not enough, Gatonye said, the thugs ordered them into the house so they could find more. As they entered, a staircase near the door obstructed one of the thugs, who then suspected the victims planned to defend themselves. “One thug asked them why they wanted to beat them and started shooting at them. They shot my brother in the chest and his son in the thigh." Mungai’s wife Loice Wangare, 26, who was struck by one of the bullets, said her husband had gone to the shopping centre to buy meat for supper. “When he came back and while he was parking the car, we realised the conservation we heard was not between two people. There was shouting. I thought he had returned with friends.” Wangare said the thugs insisted they wanted money. “We gave them our handbags. We started crying. My mother-in-law was so weak from crying. They ransacked our handbags and ran away," she said. “When they left, I saw blood on my arm. I didn’t know what had happened."  Loice Wangare, the wife of Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoros bodyguard John Mungai, following an attack at their home in Kabete, January 14, 2018. /George Mugo They were all rushed to PCEA Kikuyu Hospital, where they were treated and discharge, while Mungai was transferred to Aga Khan Hospital. Gatonye said police took his brother’s body to the hospital's mortuary. Kabete OCPD Joseph Ongaya said the gang had demanded Mungai's firearm which he had left in the house. "He wasn't armed during the attack and the thugs did not find the weapon," he said. “No one has been arrested so far but our officers are on the ground investigating." Click here for the latest political news