Deputy President William Ruto has revealed the government has set aside Sh500m to cushion sports federations and clubs following the withdrawal of sponsorships by betting firm SportPesa. Speaking during the 14th edition of the Sports Personality of the Year Awards (Soya) on Wednesday night, Ruto said the government will cater for the needs of the various national teams representing the country at various competitions this year. “We have set side Sh500 million for the various national teams for their respective assignments to plug in the gaps that arose following the withdrawal of some sponsors,” said Ruto. SportPesa withdrew their sponsorships with various national teams and federations at the start of the year, citing high taxation by the government but Ruto re-affirmed that paying taxes is not negotiable. “Continue paying taxes as you support sports. Paying tax is a must for everyone,” added Ruto. He said the government has also set aside another Sh500 million to reward athletes who shine at global events. “Gold medallists will pocket Sh1 million, silver—Sh750,000 and bronze— Sh500, 000. It’s an award which started many years ago and we will continue to reward our athletes for their outstanding achievements for this country,” added Ruto. In addition, Ruto said, the government has set aside Sh4.2 billion to ensure rehabilitations on five stadia is complete by April and another four stadia by June. “I know it’s something people have misunderstood but works on various stadia like Marsabit, Nyayo, Kasarani, Kamariny and even in my home area Eldoret are ongoing,” he added. Ruto lauded the exploits of celebrity guest, former footballer Mike Okoth and Soya founder Paul Tergat. “You have been great ambassadors for this country. The awards have grown in stature since I was here last and you are doing a commendable job,” said Ruto. Sports cabinet secretary Hassan Wario said the Sports ministry has grown under his watch with the passing of Sport Act and creation of Anti Doping Agency and the Sports Dispute Tribunal. “As a ministry, we have done our best to ensure that we have a good framework for our sportsmen and women. Previously federations used to go to court to settle cases but we have a very robust Sports Dispute Tribunal which handles these cases, ensuring fair arbitration,” said Wario.