Kenya Police bantamweight Benson Gicharu and his Kenya Defence Forces’ lightweight counterpart Nick Okoth were among the star attractions on the opening day of the Commonwealth Games national team trials at Kaloleni Social Hall in Nairobi. Gicharu, who is seeking to make a comeback to the national team after missing out on last year’s African Championships in Congo Brazzaville, needed only 45 seconds of the first round to see off Nairobi’s Hamza Chege in what turned out to be a one-sided affair. Bout referee David Ouma was called upon to halt the proceedings to save the city boy from further punishment. Lightweight Olympian Okoth also romped into finals with a technical knockout (RSC 2nd round) win over John Mwanzia of Githurai 44, who found the old warhorse a hard nut to crack more so in the opening stages of the second. Okoth, who played at the recent World Championships in Hamburg and the 2008 Beijing Olympics, stopped his ring adversary at the hallway mark of the second round with thunderous body shots which compelled the match official to stop the match. “It’s quite a good feeling to be in the finals but I guess the biggest challenge lies ahead depending on who books the ticket to Gold Coast,” said Okoth. Okoth and Gicharu, who are national team mainstays, made the cut to the national team after their semis victory. Boxing Association of Kenya (BAK) are using the event to pick the best four per weight class to make up the provisional team which will be whittled down to a final team just before the games. KDF flyweight and national team first choice boxer Simon Mulinge also romped into the finals yesterday following a 2-1 victory over Charles Macharia of Dallas Muthurwa. Mulinge tormented Macharia in the later stages of the bout although the latter gave him a run for his money in the early stages of the bout. Fears that the match would turn out to be a cliffhanger evaporated soon after Mulinge landed heavy shots on his opponent’s head to carry the day. Mulinge will face Mohammed Ali of Kongowea who also sailed through to the finals after a majority 2-1 points decision victory over fellow coasterian Brian Agina. Light flyweight Matayo Keya of Kenyatta National Hospital also cruised through to the finals after a 2-1 victory over Nicodemus Kimani of Githurai 44. The event initially set for Charter Hall was moved to Kaloleni after betting firm, SportPesa announced their sponsorship withdrawal from all sports. According to event supervisor, Albert Matito, 14 quarters and preliminary bouts were fought on the opening day. “The boxers have given a good account of themselves and we expect some explosive contests tomorrow. All boxers have been really at it during the festivity period and are all eager to secure national team slots,” said Matito a former national team coach.