No Kenyan men’s hockey teams will participate in the Africa Cup of Club Championship set for January 20-28 in Accra, Ghana. Strathmore University and Butali Sugar Warriors were the automatic representatives by virtue of emerging first and second at the end of 2016 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) Premier League season. However, last week, an official at the Strathmore University who spoke on condition of anonymity revealed that the institution will only send the women’s team to the annual event due to financial constraints. This left Butali as the sole Kenyan representatives at the show. However, yesterday, Butali team manager Kamal Sembi revealed they will give the event a wide berth as well. Sembi said they don’t have financial strenth to send the team to the Africa show after failing to shione this far in the season. “It’s unfortunate the team won’t be part of the event this time around due to financial constraints. Last year, we settled for bronze medal in the event that was staged in Nairobi and we would have loved to go there and make our presence felt and even go a step further,” said the official. He added: “We will now have to concentrate on league matches to ensure we finish in the respectable position as the season nears its end.” With the men’s teams being a no show in the African show piece, Telkom Kenya and Strathmore University will represent the nation in the women’s category in the 9-day event. Telkom will be seeking to retain the title they have won five times in a row and a record nine times while the student return to the championship having missed the last event. Meanwhile, the High court will today hear the case filed by George Jalang’o restraining Kenya Hockey Union from conducting an Annual General Meeting set for this Saturday. Jalang’o said KHU are not a registered entity and they should not be part and parcel of the election. Jalang’o is allied to Hockey Kenya Federation (HKF). The national elections were moved from last December 16 to January 13 following advice from Centre for Sports Law which will oversee the exercise.