Clients seeking services in Kiambu county will start using automated services. The county has partnered with Co-operative Bank to upgrade the county’s revenue collection system. Speaking at the county headquarters where he met bank officials, Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu said the automation will increase revenue collection. “This will seal loopholes through which the county has been losing money through corruption,” Waititu said. He was with Deputy Governor James Nyoro. County officials including Finance executive Wilson Kang’ethe, Health chief officer Andrew Toro, acting Finance chief officer Faith Njeri and IT director Sam Karanja attended the meeting. “We want to upgrade our payment systems whereby our clients will pay revenue directly to our bank account through the bank or its agents spread across the county, by mobile banking or through internet banking,” the governor said. Waititu said the Finance department will monitor each subcounty’s revenue collection through an integrated revenue collection system. “We will be able to tell the best performing subcounty regarding revenue collection,” Waititu said. He added that one will no longer be required to queue at the offices or county hospitals to make payments. Cashless payments in hospitals will be made at the point of entry. There will be no need to move around with receipts from one corner of the hospital to another to justify payments made earlier for services. The bank has 976 agents in the county and nine branches in each subcounty. The county has 12 subcounties. “We are opening three more branches in Ruiru,Gatundu and Lari subcounties soon,” said Co-operative Bank’s Chris Chege. He is in charge of wholesale products. Waititu said the county is considering seeking funding from the bank to construct a state-of-the-art hospital in Githunguri subcounty. “Our county projects cannot stop when we have partners like you,” he said, referring to Co-operative Bank. Waititu said plans are at an advanced stage with the bank to promote job opportunities among the youth, women and persons living with disability by helping them access loans.