Most rural poor people still living in the dark criticise
as ill-timed last week’s scrapping of the electricity subsidy. The subsidy
was introduced in 2013 to help low-income households access power. Only 57.2 per cent of
Kenyans are connected to the grid, according to Infotrack. Another
study found that electrification rates in Western Kenya remained low at five
per cent for rural households. This is even though they are within 200m of the
national grid connection point, according to the study by University of California,
Berkeley, and Innovations for Poverty Action. So with the subsidy scrap, the government’s
goal of raising electricity access to 70 per cent by 2017 risks remaining
just that — a goal.  SHIFT TO SOLAR ENERGY However, hope is not lost for
the rural people, as many are now opting for solar panels to light their homes. Regina Ocholla, 70, has used
a kerosene tin lamp all through her life until two months ago, when her son
financed installation of solar panels in her three-roomed house. Ocholla, a resident of
Nyakach village in Karachuonyo, South Nyanza, says she would spend at least
Sh1,000 to Sh1,200 on paraffin every month, money she now saves for food. “I no longer have to use a torch at night when I
want to go outside because I have a security light. I have light
in my house, day and night. I have also cut on the cost of kerosene.
I used to spend Sh20 daily for each of the two small tin lamps, and I am no
longer worried about money to buy kerosene,” she says as we visited her home
just after sun down. Ocholla can also charge her
mobile phone at the comfort of her house without worrying about a phone-charging
fee. She says in a day, the homestead of five people would each spend Sh10 to
charge their phone at the neighbour’s home. The reverse is now happening, and
the mother of seven earns an income from charging other people’s
phones at Sh10 each. Some homesteads in
Ocholla's village are connected to the national grid, but
the system has been seen as unreliable, unlike that
of renewable energy. “The solar system is reliable and more sufficient
than the government line, which only lasts three days a week,
forcing many to return to kerosene use,”  Ocholla
says. Her last-born daughter, Jacinta
Akoth, 25, says the small kerosene tin lamp is a painful
reminder of a dark past that she wants to forget.  ECONOMIC CHOICE Akoth is now enjoying clean
energy, just like those living in towns, thanks to Solar Now, a clean
energy company that has been installing solar panels
and lamps to many households in Nyanza region. Rukia Wakhu, a mother of
seven children from Matuugu in Kakamega county, has also embraced solar energy.
She said thanks to New Light Africa, trading in Africa as Heya!, her children
can study long into the night, unlike when she was using a kerosene lamp. “Two years ago when I was still using the kerosene
lamp, my children could not study for long at night. Sometimes the
Sh20 kerosene I bought could not sustain them long in the night, and
they ended up going to bed early
and in darkness. But thanks to the solar light, they can
study beyond 9pm and even wake up early at, say 4am, to study. I have even seen
an improvement in some of my children’s school grades,” she says joyfully. Rukia said the solar product
costs between Sh3,000 and Sh7,200, which she bought in instalments of Sh300 a
month. Solar Now business
development director Ronald Schuurhuizen said they started making solar panels
in 2006 in Uganda, and so far, they have established over 50 branch
distribution networks. He said they operate
renewable energy projects across East Africa, with over 50
distribution centres in Uganda alone, and they now want to
expand to counties in Nyanza, Western and Rift Valley regions. “We provide free transportation and
installation of the system, a two-year warranty, and five years of maintenance
and service to the installation,” he said. At a cost of Sh200
million, the clean energy company has so far benefited over 18,000
households and created nearly 500 full-time jobs in Uganda. Last
year, the company expanded its services to Western Kenya and is
planning to set up 25 branches in Kenya by the end of this year. “We are also looking into expanding to Lodwar,
Nakuru and some parts of Nairobi. We are putting up to Sh100 million into this
plan to deliver quality solar energy lights and water pumps,” Schuurhuizen said. Reagan Omondi, the Nyanza
regional manager for Solar Now, said that with a first
instalment of Sh8,100, Ocholla enjoys a 150-watts solar system with
seven lamps, and she can also use television. “Compared to the annual cost of
paraffin of between Sh12,000 to Sh15,000, she is able to pay for the solar
panel, which costs about Sh80,000, in monthly instalments of six to 24
months,” Omondi said.  HEAVY IMPORT DUTY However, the cost of solar
panels in Kenya is more expensive compared to Uganda due to heavy taxation of
up to 50 per cent. “We are lobbying the government to reduce taxes on
solar appliances, which is higher in Kenya than Uganda, so that more people can
embrace use of renewable energy,” he said. Many households in
Kenya and other African countries spend close to Sh170
billion on fossil fuel, according to the Africa Enterprise Challenge Fund. “These households spend up to 30 per cent of their
disposable income purchasing fuel. The technology is inefficient and expensive
and exposes users to health and fire hazards,” AECF Renewable Energy portfolio
manager Victor Ndiege said. He said energy is a binding
constraint on growth in many African countries, especially in rural areas,
where wood and charcoal make up about 90 per cent of the primary energy supply.
This, he said, presents environmental and livelihood challenges, as nearly
four million hectares of forest are lost each year, adding tot the degradation
of water catchment and soil erosion.  INVESTING IN SOLAR
POWER To address the energy
problem, Ndiege added that AECF has supported over 50 private sector
companies to reach the market, with various off-grid power products and clean
cooking solutions for poor families. This is through Sh5.3 billion
that has been committed by three donors for seven years for renewable energy and adaption
to climate technologies project. This in addition to private sector
funding that matches the amount they are given by the donors, namely Sweden International Development
Cooperation Agency (Sida), Danida and UKAid. Pauline Mbayah, AECF Director
of Strategy and Partnerships, said the fund puts money where no one has
bothered to invest. “We identify companies that do environment-friendly
products that are quality and capable of addressing Sustainable Development
Goals. These companies must also demonstrate that they can leverage with the
same amount of money we provide on interest-free grants,” she said. Mbayah said conversation is growing
on how people are going to access quality reliable energy products off-grid
in Nyanza and Western Kenya regions. “AECF’s focus is to address market failures by
plugging the gaps where the government cannot reach, in the case of
electricity,” she said. Ndiege said the AECF
has just completed a five-year funding agreement with Sida for renewable energy
and adaption to climate technologies in sub-Saharan Africa. The Sh4.8 billion
deal will support Africa’s renewable energy sector. “The programme, which is currently at its inception
phase, will support private sector companies to accelerate access to clean
energy solutions by rural communities in Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Kenya, Liberia,
Mali, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The funding competition will commence in June
2018,” he said.