All over the world, there are many leaders who have complained about election results or electoral losses. Former US presidential candidate Hillary Clinton complained after losing to President Donald Tramp, but she was not sworn in. She moved on. Former Vice President Al Gore lost the presidential election to George Bush, complained about the results which were upheld by the Supreme Court but he didnt take oath. The Nasa and ODM leader should not equate fairness of an election to his being elected. You cannot tell Kenyans that an election is only fair if you are the one who is elected and it becomes an illegality if you are defeated. There is a red line which exists in every country in the world in terms of what is treason and what is legitimate opposition activity. As a Statesman, it is not worth it for Raila to cross the red line. The former Prime Minister should be focusing on how, as the opposition leader, he will oversight government to ensure that development takes place in the country. Raila should not pretend that there is anything that will happen to change the political landscape in the next five years. Being sworn in is an exercise in futility that neither helps him nor his party or the rest of the country. The truth of the matter is that Kenyans have already moved on, including his own MPs, who have taken strategic positions in committees as well as leadership slots in the House. It is up to him to determine the role he is going to play in the country’s politics this year. And it is an important one. The People's Assembly idea steered by NASA can be relevant if it focuses on how Governors can work amicably with MCAs at the grassroots without wrangles. The poor relationship between the two arms will only derail development and result in the further suffering of Mwananchi. We also need to weed out corrupt officials at the counties. The People’s Assemblies could be useful in discussing how to gauge the performance of various Members of County Assemblies countrywide. They could also focus on ensuring that devolution works by analyzing what the MCAs are doing for the electorate, and assist their counties to perform . But anything else s just an exercise in futility that has no, and will never have any, effect.  The writer is the immediate former Senator of Nyeri