In a rather unusual spectre of Kenyan politics, the country seems stuck in a rut, unable to move on despite holding elections three months ago. Hence, 2018 will be a continuation of the unfinished business of political realignment and positioning for the 2022 succession race. Although President Uhuru Kenyatta has promised to name his Cabinet in the coming weeks, the delay has fed into the prolonged political stand-off with NASA, which will continue to dominate the first quarter of the year. The confusing signals from NASA leader Raila Odinga on his threatened swearing-in pretty much defines what happens in the political arena amid signs of hushed behind-the-scenes negotiations by emissaries. Sources confided in the Star that if no progress towards dialogue and resolution of political questions will have been made by Thursday, Kenyatta will proceed to unveil his list of Cabinet nominees, implementing his Big Four agenda in earnest. Apart from the education sector reforms that roll out this week, the mews agenda will be dictated by politics with the usual players. Uhuru Kenyatta The President, having won his second and final term, walks into the new year determined to leave a legacy amid tough economic times occasioned by hotly contested and protracted polls.  In his Sunday night New Year message at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru failed to state when he will nominate his Cabinet. "In the next few weeks, I will unveil the men and women to whom I will entrust delivery of the Big Four, and other programs to transform this country," he said. Uhuru added, "I expect these men and women to serve Kenyans without partiality and with the very highest standard of integrity and efficiency. They must prove themselves worthy of the trust Kenyans will have bestowed on them." According to sources within the presidency, Uhuru is likely to forward the list of CSs and PSs to Parliament at the end of this week. It has been ready since last month. "The list was to go to Parliament before it adjourned for recess. But media wrote speculative stories with some names and both the President and DP decided to shelve the whole thing," a highly placed source told the Star. Before adjourning, MPs changed the procedure for submitting the nominees to the House. They approved a motion by Majority leader Aden Duale allowing Speaker Justin Muturi to directly forward the names to the Committee on Appointments. This means the whole House need not be recalled.   Raila Odinga Despite ending the year in political suspense, he still tops the list of people whose actions will define the political terrain. The opposition chief has already pledged to lead protests and civil disobedience if President Kenyatta doesn't heed his calls for dialogue on electoral justice. “Within the first week of the New Year, we will unveil a program for civil disobedience, peaceful protests, non-cooperation with and resistance to an illegitimate regime, in addition to People’s Assemblies,” Raila said in his New Year's message.  Raila has repeated that he will take the Oath of Office for President, keeping alive his dispute of the election results. His threat to be sworn in on December 12 was called off at the eleventh hour. His communications advisor Salim Lone attributed to the absence of running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, tending to his sick wife in Germany. Kalonzo returned last week and pledged to take a parallel oath of office if the government rejects dialogue Raila: I will carry the Bible, I must be sworn in William Ruto        He is positioned as Uhuru's heir-apparent in the Jubilee game plan. Talk is rife that the self-proclaimed 'Hustler' will be crowned party boss in elections, sources say, to be held early in the year. This will enable him to strategically build his support base for 2022. Immediately after the August 8 General Election, the DP went flat out penetrating Coast and Western areas once firmly in the opposition's grip. He harvested  notable losers from the NASA's Coast and Western bedrock. These included former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, Gideon Mung'aro from the Coast, former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, Labour Party leader and former Budalang'i MP Ababu Namwamba and former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga. Realignments will continue into the new year, even as critics dismiss Ruto's gains as a harvest of spoiled fruits.  The DP is poised to reap from any falling out in the opposition and lure others with promises of yet-to-be-filled Cabinet and other government positions. In December, NASA parties began feuding over sharing minority positions in Parliament, triggering threats by ANC to reconsider its position in the alliance  Read: Ruto woos top NASA brass ahead of 2022 Anne Waiguru The former Devolution CS shook off allegations of impropriety in the Sh1.8 billion NYS scandal to become Kirinyaga governor. She cultivated an iron-lady image after defying the odds to defeat the equally iron-like Martha Karua. She is one of the first four women governors. After election, she added another feather to her cap by being elected vice chairman of the influential Council of Governors. Waiguru is being promoted among those playing key roles in Uhuru's succession. When DP Ruto attended her inauguration, observers suggested her as a possible 2022 running mate. She and Ruto used to be at odds, to put it mildly. Read: Waiguru emerging as a political powerhouse in Central Kenya Gideon Moi The Baringo senator's decision to support Uhuru's reelection upset NASA's plan to break Jubilee's grip on the Rift Valley. Gideon, an avoid adversary of Ruto, says he wants to run for President in 2022. The Kanu chairman's rapport with Kenyatta and retired President Daniel Moi's backing of Ruto are among the biggest puzzles of 2022. The Mois have never been comfortable with Ruto for masterminding a revolt that took the Kalenjin community into Raila-led ODM in 2007. Ruto was a member of the Pentagon. Kanu and Gideon's support for Uhuru was perceived as a reciprocal deal to preserve his Senate seat for a second term. He made clear he was supporting Uhuru, not Ruto. Despite talk of presidential ambitions, many say Gideon's engagements are more strategically business-oriented than political. The aim is to checkmate Ruto in Rift Valley. Read: I could back DP Ruto in 2022, says Gideon Moi Click here for the latest political news