NASA has refuted claims that Raila Odinga's oath plan is a blackmail to broker power-sharing deal with the Jubilee government. David Ndii, chairman of the national steering committee on swearing in, on Thursday said the coalition is not interested in any power-sharing deal at the moment. He said Raila and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka's oath is just one of the activities by the coalition to restore and give legitimacy to a party that will deliver services to citizens. Read; [VIDEO] Raila, Kalonzo will be sworn in before end month - David Ndii Ndii, while addressing journalists, said the coalition is focused on concluding their regional forums in the next two weeks before the first national convention where the party leaders will be sworn in. "We wish to assure all our supporters and stakeholders that the swearing in is on as announced," Ndii said. The economist said the coalition's main objective is to "secure the rights and dignity of Kenyans whose victory was confirmed by the Supreme Court's nullification of Uhuru's win". The apex court, in the September 1 decision, held that the August 8 election did not meet the Constitutional threshold of a free, fair, and transparent vote. This saw the court order a fresh vote within 60 days, which NASA withdrew from citing IEBC's lack of preparedness. Ndii said that after the swearing in, the coalition will deliberate on urgent transformational changes saying it is part of the movement's efforts to ensure electoral justice prevails in the country. Related: Professionals back Kalonzo and Raila swearing-in He said dismissed Jubilee's win in the October 26 repeat vote calling it a sham and one conducted against what the court had ordered. This he said saw over three quarters of the registered voters' boycott the exercise because they felt their voices had been ignored. "Jubilee is, in fact, practising illegitimate presidency. The country is currently deeply divided between the authoritarian and those who believe in democracy. It is a fact that Kenya will not stand for long under the current circumstances unless there is a serious national dialogue," Ndii said. He said: "Due to their illegitimacy, they are now unable to form a government due to greed. But for NASA, we are not interested in a power-sharing deal, we are not going to help Jubilee out of their illegitimacy by forming a government with them." More on this: Raila will get to State House 'by all means' before 2022 - Fred Outa Also read: 'Wapende, wasipende': NASA plans national fete for Raila swearing in  Click here for the latest political news