School heads have been directed to use part of the funds allocated in the Free Day Secondary Education to cater for the ministry’s directive to paint buses yellow. The directive issued by Education CS Fred Matiang’i requires all school buses to be painted yellow by March 30. The order has created anxiety among school heads and parents over the cost of painting.  Traffic act The directive was part of the Traffic (Amendment) Act, 2016 requiring all school buses to be painted yellow with the school’s name written in black. The Aact also required motor vehicle designated to transport children to or from school be fitted with safety belts designed for children. These were part of changes aimed at improving the safety of pupils and teachers who use the vehicles. Matiang’i also asked traffic police to ensure the buses only operate between 6am and 6pm. However, in a statement, the ministry says the concerns are misplaced. It cited the capitation offered by the schools for students’ local transport and travel. “Part of the Sh29.5 billion the government released for the first term of free secondary education is substantial amount of money schools should use to change the colours of the school buses to yellow,” the statement says. “This vote covers school vehicle maintenance, repairs, fuels, travel and insurance. This item ordinarily covers painting of the vehicles as part of its routine maintenance and improvement.” The cost of painting a bus averages Sh150,000, motor vehicle repairers in Nairobi have said.  What shade of yellow? Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi yesterday said schools are working out arrangements to ensure the order is met. Kahi further raised concern over the shade of yellow required to be painted. National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo raised questions on funds school heads collected from hiring the school buses. “The painting of buses should not be a reason for school heads to extort money. These buses are painted from time to time during maintenance and to add on that those buses generate their own revenue which in most cases remains unaccounted for,” Maiyo said. Kenyans on social media want a jobless man hired to paint the school buses. A sign shared on social media identifies the man as Daniel and states his phone number as 0720261431. Daniel Mung’ori was spotted displaying his sign near the roundabout at Ole Odume and Oloitoktok roads in Kilimani, Nairobi.