Education CS Fred Matiang’i has told off those opposed to the transfer of school principals saying their actions reflect barbarism. The CS said one of the reasons Kenya is yet to achieve national integration is the notion that people must work in their home areas. “I don’t understand why a principal from Siaya cannot be a principal in Kiambu. I don’t understand why a principal in Loitokitok cannot be a principal in Kisumu,” Matiang’i said on Thursday. “We have been trained to go and teach. Let us go and teach. There is no examination for Luos, Kikuyus, Kalenjins, Kisiis and so on. “Let me speak more bluntly like the prophets of old. The foolishness with which we have lived must come to an end." He spoke at Kenyatta University during the commissioning of last year’s KCPE candidates who won Wings To Fly scholarships. The programme by Equity Bank and partners caters for school fees and other supplies for bright students from poor families. TSC's decision to transfer 557 secondary school heads and principals irked Knut leaders and a section of politicians. In a statement on December 26, secretary general Wilson Sossion threatened to call a national teachers’ strike if the “indiscriminate” mass transfers were not reversed. He accused the Teachers Service Commission of unilaterally effecting the transfers before talks on modalities. “We consider the idea ill-conceived and suspect the plotters do not mean well as this could negatively affect the sector in many ways," he said and asked teachers to ignore the directive. "[This includes] demoralising hard working teachers, who are taking this as a form of punishment, and poor performance in affected schools." More on this: Sossion threatens strike over 'inconsiderate' transfer of 557 principals In her directive, TSC chief executive officer Nancy Macharia said the “delocalisation programme” was aimed at promoting national integration. Speaking during the release of KCSE test results at Nairobi School on December 20, Macharia said the transfers were in line with the Code of Regulations for Teachers and the Collective Bargaining Agreements signed with their unions. “We have tried to be as humane as possible in the arrangement." On Wednesday, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori supported the mass transfers saying they were not unusual since they were not part of disciplinary action. “Teaching is a public job. Teachers can work and teach anywhere,” Misori said but questioned the rationale that transferring teachers would enhance national cohesion and integration. “That was a simplistic way of looking at the transfers. There are so many institutions which can foster cohesion and integration. “That can begin by having students [from everywhere]. That would be better than saying only 500 teachers can create cohesion in a nation." Among notable school principals affected by the transfers is Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Kahi Indimuli. He moves to Machakos Boys from Chavakali while Boaz Owino of Maranda High School in Siaya moves to Nyambaria High School in Nyamira. More on this: Why principals were transferred Also read: Teacher transfers are a policy issue, nothing sinister Click here for the latest political news 