The Treasury has intervened by releasing an extra Sh1 billion to pay maize farmers who delivered their produce to the National Cereals and Produce Board. Despite the release, the board still owes the farmers Sh2 billion. Newton Terer, the board's Chief Executive Officer, says they have so far used Sh3.6 billion on paying farmers. “We have so far bought more than 1.8 million bags of maize from farmers and we are still taking in more”, Terer spoke to the Star yesterday. More farmers are still lining up at the NCPB depots in North Rift to deliver their produce. Sh6 billion had been set aside to purchase maize from farmers. So far, stock bought is worth Sh5.7 billion. However Terer said they had met with PS for Agriculture Richard Lesiampe over the payments and request for more money for the purchase. “We will continue to buy more maize as directed by the government,” Keter said. Some farmers had opted to sell their maize to middlemen following delays by the NCPB to pay them Sh3 billion debts for delivery of their produce. Timon Kosgey, a farmer, yesterday said they are selling their harvest to traders at a throwaway price in order to pay school fees. Director of Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo, said farmers should be paid promptly to avoid exploitation. Traders are offering Sh2,200 for a 90kg bag and the NCPB pays Sh3,200. “We have been waiting for the payments since December 5 in vain. We don’t have fees for our children,” Kosgey said. Farmers in the Rift Valley are piling pressure on the state to release all the money owed to them. MPs from the region led Moiben MP Sila Tiren have demanded that farmers should be paid their cash. “We want farmers to be paid promptly as we promised them and the government should give the NCPB all the money required for the purchase of maize”, Tiren said. The maize is being bought under the Strategic Grain Reserves (SGR) programme. In February last year, prices of essentials commodities including maize, sugar and milk went up. A two-kilo packet of maize flour increased from Sh120 to a high of Sh150, milk rose from Sh50 to between Sh65 and Sh70 while a kilo of sugar was selling at Sh200.It was a struggle for many Kenyans to afford these basic commodities and in some areas, this resulted in domestic attacks.  This, according to due to the National Drought Management Authority, is as a result of the raging drought and a cutoff of grain imports from neighbouring countries. MPs, however, blamed millers for “creating artificial maize flour shortfall” by hoarding maize, leading to hiked unga prices in the market. In May, the government started a Sh6 billion subsidy programme amid sharp criticism on the legalities of importing maize from Mexico. The government resolved to source and sell maize to millers at an average cost of Sh2,300 per 90kg bag so that consumers would buy a 2kg packet of maize flour at Sh90. The imported maize cost Sh3,600 for a 90kg bag but the government subsidized the price so millers can buy it at Sh2,300 until end of July. The subsidy was then extended until end of September and later pushed to December 31. A 2kg packet of flour is currently retailing at Sh115-120.      