 Despite starting on time way back in March, Kenya basketball programme calendar year still didn’t end and must continue through out January and February before the champions are known. The league play-off matches will come to an end next month, according to new fixtures released by fixtures secretary Joseph Amoko.  Sad as it may seem,  the new year will roll out immediately to avoid this pile up. The games are already in the semi-finals, where reigning men’s champions Kenya Ports Authority (KPA), Ulinzi Warriors, Blades and Co-operative Bank made it to the last four. In the women’s category, KPA women, still the only unbeaten side, will play United States International University (USIU) with reigning champions Equity Bank already waiting after dispatching Co-op Bank. Yes, there were challenges as it has been the case over the last few years, with the 2017 league spilling over to this year.  But that’s the way it has been over last few years and no much has been done to fix it. Matters were complicated after the Nyayo National Stadium gymnasium was closed for renovation. This forced the league to move out doors at Upper Hill School and Strathmore courts with a week cameo at Africa Nazarene University (ANU) indoor gymnasium. Kenya were represented in the Fiba Africa Zone 5 Club Championships in Kampala, Uganda by three teams namely—Kenya Ports Authority (men and women) and Equity Bank. From that challenge, KPA and Equity Bank effort saw both teams qualify for the Africa women’s Club Championship as winners and runners up respectively. The tournament was held in Luanda, Angola.  While the porters were making one of their many appearance at the continental podium, the bankers were making their debut.  The event was won by home team side Primiero Agosto while KPA were fifth. Equity placed eighth. Their participation in that nine-team tournament exposed the weakness of the Kenyan teams at that podium with the result leaving the fraternity with more questions than answers.Association Sportive Sale of Morocco on the other hand won the FIBA Africa Champions Cup for men in Rades, Tunisia with Uganda’s City Oilers winning the fair play award after finishing fifth. Nairobi Basketball Association (NBA) programme went off well without a hitch, culminating with Woodley Knights and Safe Spaces winning themen and women’s provincial titles respectively.  The Inter Provincial play-offs in Kisii saw University of Nairobi ‘Dynamites’ gain promotion. The men winners, delayed after the rains halted the show and  will now be played in Nairobi later this month.