Eleven schools have been shut down in Pokot Central after learners and teachers deserted the areas due to bandit attacks. West Pokot county Knut executive secretary Martin Sembelo said the teachers had sought transfers due to the frequent attacks along the border with Elgeyo Marakwet county. “The situation is critical. There is urgent need to improve security or we will not have learning in most schools,” Sembelo said. About 30 teachers had sought transfers, citing security threats. “Most teachers no longer want to risk their lives just like the children and their parents,” Sembelo said. The primary schools affected are Chesegon, Cheptulel, Arpolo, Kokwo Meses, Anet, Tilingwo, Cheratakand Chemale. The secondary schools affected include Cheptulel Girls’ High School, Cheptulel Boys’ High School and Chesumbur Mixed Secondary. Last Sunday, 63-year-old Kojeptoo Betaki was shot dead by bandits along the Liter-Chesegon-Sigor road. The woman’s death brought to five the number of lives lost to banditry over the last one month. County director of education Jared Obiero said learning was not going on in many schools because of insecurity. “There had been improvement but the situation has reversed. It is difficult for schools to operate under an environment where bandits attack anywhere any time,” Obiero said. He said education officials were liaising with county security teams to find a solution. ”There have been so much gunfire around. You don’t expect children to come out and go to school because they are scared,” Obiero said. Pokot Central OCPD Geoffrey Githinji said security had been strengthened. He said some teachers had chosen to stay away from schools. “We have made adequate deployments in the region, but many teachers still refuse to go to work,” Githinji said. Githinji asked those who have fled to return, saying police reservists had been deployed to guard schools. MCAs also called for the reopening of the schools for learning to resume. The MCAs – Lawi Kibire, Neddy Kiptoo, Emily Kirop – met professionals from the county in Eldoret last week, during which they agreed to have the assembly allocate Sh200 million for peace activities in the Kerio Valley.