The Kenyan quartet of Ryan Randiek, Derrick Ominde, Angella Okutoyi and Alicia Owegi stormed into semi-finals of the ongoing Eastern Africa Junior Championships at Nairobi Club. Randiek eliminated Burundi’s Salum Mutabazi 6-0,6-0; Ominde beat Rwandese Joseph Cyiza 6-0,6-0; Okutoyi trounced Arielle Horpinitch of Seychelles 6-0,6-0 and Sauda Owegi beat another Burundian Sauda Akimana with a simailar margin to reach the last four in their respective categories. Winners from the event will representatives of the region in the forthcoming African Junior Championships. Randiek, who is the tournament’s top seeded in the boys category, had an easy outing againist his Burundian opponentafter breaking his serves and making no errors in his serves to book a place in the semis without dropping a game. Randiek, who won the U-14 of the 2016 edition, expressed his desire to clinch this year’s championship and represent the region in the African showpiece. He said: “I have not met any tough opponent so far in this tourney and I hope I will remain solid in the remaining bit. I won the 2016 edition but retired in last year’s edition due to a recurring injury. This year, I want to win and represent East Africa in the African Junior Championships. “In today’s game, I was calm and capitalised on my opponent’s mistakes. I just want to be patient and lively in the remaining matches and hopefully, I will recapture the title.” Randiek is set to play Berton Karenzi of Rwanda in the semis. Karenzi saw off Ugandan national Arnold Jurua 6-2, 6-2 to set a date with Randiek. Similarly, third seed Derrick Ominde overcame his Rwandese opponent Joseph Cyiza 6-0,6-0 to grab a slot in the semis. Ominde described his next opponent in the semis as a great player having trained together before. “I will be playing Damien Laporte in the semis and I can say he is a great player with good skills and our match is going to be tough. I have trained and played warm up matches with him before and I believe I have tips on how to handle him.” Laporte beat Kenyan Samuel Urasa 6-3 and 6-0 to book a date with Ominde. In the girls category, Okutoyi pinned Horpinitch in similar sets of 6-0. Okutoyi will face compatriot Alicia Owegi who eliminated Akimana with similar set margin. Okutoyi expressed confidence of not only winning the semis but the tournament. “I have played Owegi before and I understand her game well. I am confident I will win the semis and the remaining matches of the tournament.”