The story is told of an emperor so exceedingly fond of new clothes that he mistakenly hired some swindlers to make him the best clothing ever. The two swindlers came, claiming to be weavers who could make the most magnificent fabrics imaginable. Beside their perfect colours and patterns, the clothes had a wonderful way of becoming invisible to anyone who was unfit for his office, or who was unusually stupid, they told the emperor. “Those would be just the clothes for me,” thought the emperor as he paid the two swindlers a large sum of money to start work at once. He then kept sending his aides to check on the progress and they paid more money. The swindlers would describe the imaginary patterns and colours on an empty loom to all those who came and the “magnificent” clothing became the talk of the entire palace. Nobody would confess that he couldn’t see anything, for that would prove him either unfit for his position, or a fool. The splendid clothes became the talk of the entire town. The day came when the emperor was to lead a procession. He undressed and the swindlers made a great show of dressing him in his new clothes. So out went the emperor in great pomp. At first everyone exclaimed how magnificent his clothes were. No one wanted to be thought a fool, or unfit for the office he held. One child however said, “But he hasn’t got anything on.” And soon the whole town cried out the same as they laughed at the naked emperor. Just like in this story, NASA sycophants have been lying to former Prime Minister Raila Odinga that he should take a treasonous oath today to remain relevant. Kenyans are waiting to see how this pans out and what next for a “president” who does not have the least of powers. These are the same sycophants who have come up with other grand ideas such as compelling the former opposition leader not to participate in the last election. They have lied to one of Kenya’s seniormost politicians that the IEBC servers have results that show he won. What they are not telling him, which is the truth, is that their false prophet is naked and is bound to fail, just as all their other plans have failed. What they are not telling him is that he may join the league of rebel leaders who have stayed in hiding for treasonous acts. And so today the big day has finally arrived. Raila will finally take the oath that he has taunted the country with for so long. Pleas from the clergy, envoys and non-hardliners in his own party’s ranks have fallen on deaf ears. And this is because of a few self-centered individuals who do not care what happens to him. People who already have secured their jobs as elected leaders within his party. Of course, there are a few failed politicians who want Raila to join them in the land of failures. It is the land of failures because Raila has no plan of what to do next after taking an illegal oath in a country that has a legitimate and democratically elected government in place. This scheme is a complete waste of time; a plot by merchants of chaos who do not care about the future of this country. As NASA supporters go about their business today, they would do well to remember that the Attorney General has spelt out very clearly the repercussions of what they will do today. This is treason and is punishable by death. NASA still has a chance to call off this ridiculous scheme to seek power forcibly and unconstitutionally. Failing this will mean a date with the hangman’s noose as the law dictates. NASA supporters must tell Raila the truth and help him retire from politics with dignity as his time is over. They should not allow him to walk naked and face humiliation.  Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda