The National Police Service Commission has invited applications for the positions of Director of Criminal Investigations and Deputy Inspector Generals of police. This comes after President Uhuru Kenyatta last week recalled Ndegwa Muhoro, Joe Kitili and Samuel Arachi respectively for re-deployment by the Public Service. Uhuru appointed former police spokesman George Kinoti as DCI in the acting capacity. Edward Mbugua and Noor Gabow were also appointed to replace Deputy IGs Joel Kitili- Kenya Police and Samuel Arachi (AP) respectively in an acting capacity. Read:DCI boss Muhoro fired as Uhuru reshuffles police bosses Chairman Johnson Kavuludi said anyone seeking for the Deputy Inspector General position must be a Kenyan citizen, holding a degree from a university recognized in Kenya, has had a distinguished career in their respective fields and meets the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution in regards to integrity. Kavuludi said the person must also have served the Police Service for at least fifteen years and has knowledge and experience in matters relating to criminal justice, policy development and implementation, finance and public administration, strategic management, security, law, sociology or government. The person must also be a serving police officer of the rank of Assistant Inspector General and above. For those seeking to take over the DIC docket, Kavuludi said the person must have had at least 10 years’ proven experience at the management level of a public institution, has a distinguished career in their field and has knowledge and experience in Criminal investigations or policing. "The person must have proven relevant experience in Management, Law, Economics, change management, Finance, governance or public administration; and Meets the requirements of Chapter 6 of the constitution," read part of the statement by the chair. Read: Uhuru overlooks senior cops, appoints their juniors as deputy IGs In addition to the qualification set out in the Constitution and the enabling Statute, Kavuludi said applicants must further furnish clearance certificates from EACC, KRA,  Directorate of Public Prosecutions, Higher Education Loans Board and any Professional bodies (where applicable) to which the applicant belongs such as LSK, ICPAK, AAK, IEK, etc. The applicants must also get a clearance certificate from Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Credit Reference Bureau. According to Kavuludi, applicants have until Monday 15, not later than 5.00pm to submit their credentials. Also read: Raila attacks Uhuru over replacement of top cops   Click here for the latest political news 