Kenya Revenue Authority yesterday started the process of auctioning hundreds of containers of cargo and vehicles that have overstayed at the port of Mombasa. The second one will be carried out on January 17 according to Nicholas Kinoti, the KRA Deputy Commissioner for the Southern Region. Through two government notices published on November 10 and 24 last year, the regulator informed the public of the intended auctions to be undertaken at their Kilindini yard in a bid to clear the facility of unclaimed goods. Pursuant to section 42 of the East African Community Customs Management Act, the uncollected goods that were published in the Kenya Gazette notice number 11042 of November 10 and 11583 of November 24, 2017 would be sold after 30 days if not claimed. “Unless the goods are entered and removed from the custody of the Customs Warehouse Keeper, Kilindini Mombasa within 30 days of the respective gazette notices, the goods therein will be deemed abandoned and will be sold by public auction,” read part of the notice issued by KRA. Kinoti said the auction was transparent and in accordance to the law. “To us (KRA), this auction is the last accounting process of the cargo which was brought into Kenya, but for some reasons the owners of the cargo failed to come and pick their goods,” said Kinoti. He said the only way to dispose the goods is by putting them to public auction. “The only way to dispose these goods is by inviting Kenyans, of course by following the legal process, to come and buy these goods through a public auction,” said Kinoti before the auction started. In the Kenya Gazette notice of November 10, the interested buyers were asked to view the goods held at the port police and several Container Freight Stations in Mombasa among them Interpel on December 28 and 29. The November 24 notice asked interested buyers to view the goods at Customs warehouse, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Customs Bonded Warehouse, Nairobi Inland Container Depot and Namanga customs warehouse on January 15and 16. In the gazette notices, hundreds of containers carrying baby items, second hand vehicles, cartons of alcohols, used bicycles, Liquid Gas Cylinders, furniture, bales of used clothes and sanitary towels were put into auction. There are also Television sets, bags of rice, used motorcycles and empty containers that had been left unclaimed at the port.