Former presidential
contender Ekuru Aukot and Kiambu MP Paul Koinange have vowed to bring Joseph Kiarie killers to book. The former Maseno University student leader died after he was assaulted by Marimba Sacco touts at Zimmerman in Nairobi after an accident on December 24. Aukot and Koinange accused the
police of frustrating efforts to get justice for Kiarie following their failure to apprehend the culprits days after the incident. They spoke when they
joined hundreds of mourners for Kiarie’s burial at their rural home in Komo village, Thika East on Wednesday. Aukot claimed that senior
police officers own vehicles operating under the said sacco hence the slackness in apprehending the culprits. "I will assist the family through my law firm to get justice for Joseph. We must condemn this
heinous act and ensure the suspects are jailed."  He said the situation of senior police officers owning PSVs amounts to conflict of interest since it is unlikely for them to punish the same vehicles whenever they violate the law. "The issue
of most vehicles on the Kenyan roads being owned by senior police officers has
led to increased indiscipline by their crews." "People are getting
away with these murder cases because the vehicles they operate with are owned
by police bosses in the country," Aukot said.
 Read: NTSA suspends Marimba Sacco license after crew kill man  Related: No arrest after matatu crew kill motorist in Zimmerman Also read: Cops covering-up Joseph Kiarie's killers because they own Marimba sacco matatus - family "Law enforcers should
be barred from owning and operating PSVs so that the insanity
currently being witnessed in the country can end," he added. "Furthermore, those behind the murders
disguised as accidents should be apprehended and jailed." Aukot asked the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to take up the matter and ensure Kiarie's killers are arrested. Koinange said that he will ensure that all matatu drivers and touts are cleared
by the DCI before they are allowed to operate. "We must change the way
people are licensed to work in the matatu industry so that we tame
murderers who have infiltrated the sector." The MP, who is the chairman of the parliamentary Committee on Administration and National Security, said it is time the country re-looked into the matatu industry. "It is unacceptable at this age for a country to lose over 2,500 lives on the roads. All stakeholders in the
industry must come together and reason together so as to end the carnages." Koinange said Kiarie’s
murder will not go unpunished adding that God will unleash his wrath on the
perpetrators. Friends and relatives eulogised the late as visionary man whose passion and dream of eradicating
poverty and creating jobs for the youth
in the region remained a top priority. Kiarie was in the process of opening up a water packaging
firm worth Sh3 million.  Anthony Koinange, his brother, said they had started installing equipment at the plant before Kiarie's death. They called on the
police to stop covering up the murder and instead expedite investigations and
bring the culprits to book. Click here for the latest political stories          