The judgment for the petition against Machakos Governor  Alfred Mutua will be made on February 9. The petition filed by Wiper Candidate Wavinya Ndeti came to an end on Monday after all the parties made their final oral submissions before Justice Agrrey Mchelule. Wavinya attended the hearings accompanied by NASA leaders Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Kivutha Kibwana and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo. Her lawyer Willis Otieno made a case for the nullification of the August 8 election arguing it was not conducted in accordance with the principles of the constitution. Read: Alfred Mutua denies hiring county staff as agents, bribing voters He said not all polling stations were considered when the election results were declared. "The second respondent (IEBC) has admitted it did not conduct a tally of all the 1332 polling stations, " Otieno said. He said IEBC relied on form 37Bs in order to generate form 37C to declare the results. "The act of ignoring Form 37As should cause the election to be nullified since it fails the test of verifiability contrary to provisions of Article 36 of the constitution," he said. Read: Governor Mutua’s lawyers withdraw from Wavinya’s petition, cites frustrations by judge Also read: Mutua wants Wavinya's petition dismissed on 'technical defects' The court was told that there were also forms which lacked security features raising questions as to whether their content was genuine. Wavinya also argued that the IEBC was not impartial as over 500 employees of Machakos County government served as clerks and agents of Maendeleo Chap Chap Party in the election. However, IEBC said there was no law barring public officials from participating in an election. Kimani Muhoro for IEBC said the list of agents had been made public before the elections but no one raised complaints about it. He said all results were tabulated and the election was free, fair and verifiable. Muhoro further argued that photocopying of the original form erased the security features on the duplicate. Also read: IEBC tears into Wavinya Ndeti’s election petition affidavit   Click here for the latest political news