Former national team boxers Duncan ‘Sugar Ray’ Kuria and Absalom ‘Diblo’ Okinyi are doubting the squad’s capability of winning medals in April’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia. “From what I saw at the trials, I am not very hopeful. I think a surprise bronze or two would be a big achievement but all indications are that we might not win any medal. Apart from Nick Okoth, who was the only outstanding boxer during trials, the rest are journeymen, who are only there to make the numbers. Even Benson Gicharu’s form appears to have dipped given the knockdowns he was handed at trials,” he added. Okinyi, Kenya’s best welterweight of his time and the 1998 Kuala Lumpur Commonwealth Games silver medallist, blamed it all on myopic attitude of the older generation. “Many older generation officials have nothing new to offer yet trends keep on changing by the day. We have a crop of officials who are not ready to listen to new ideas,” he charged. Kuria, who was famously known as ‘Sugar Ray’ on his part said: “We have a major problem with how Boxing Association of Kenya select coaches. I have no confidence in the current coaches irrespective of qualifications because I believe they are not able to inspire the few good boxers to be medals. I actually think it’s a lost cause. The officials just want to go for trips but care less about how the team will perform. How come they don’t know which boxer will make the team yet the officials are already known? For female boxers, unless Eliza (Elizabeth Andiego) makes the team, none can win a single bout at the Games.” The seven male boxers will join three women counterparts for the Gold Coast trip. Coach Musa Benjamin, who was twice handled the national junior team to global games in the Isle of Man and Bulgaria respectively, also admitted that boxing standards had taken sharp a nosedive. “Some boxers were looking very polished and promising during their days as juniors. Today, they seem to have faced off and you can hardly recognise them,” he said. National Olympic Committee of Kenya (Nock) treasurer Anthony Kariuki also challenged BAK and wondered why they have not thought of participating in the Youth Olympic Games in Argentina in October. “The budget for Commonwealth Games is purely a Ministry of Sports undertaking. We as Nock have got no control of the budget but we will try and lobby to ensure all boxers make the trip. I have, however, not heard of BAK’s interest in the Youth Olympics yet boxing is one of the sports. Kameta in response to Nock’s call, said they are trying to give as much exposure as possible youth boxing depending on the availability of funds. “The Sportpesa withdrawal has left us in a very tough spot but we have plans to bolster junior boxing in Kenya,” he said.