The new education curriculum will make learenrs more skillful and marketable, Matungu MP Justus Murunga has said. Speaking in his constituency on Saturday, Murunga welcomed the 2-6-3-3 curriculum, saying it will help learners become more technical. "The new system will make the students easily qualify for employment because of the expertise it will impart in them," Murunga said. The MP told the government to put up more industries to create enough employment opportunities for graduates. Murunga said the state had opened up more institutions of higher learning without creating enough employment opportunities for graduates. He was speaking during a meeting with top performers in last year's KCPE exam. The students are set to join secondary schools this month. The government will roll out the new education system this month. Murunga promised to give full scholarship to all students who scored 400 marks and above. He will also give bursary to other top performers from needy families. The Kenya National Union of Teachers has called for the postponement of the rollout, saying some schools are not ready. Murunga told teachers to stop opposing the new system and instead focus of their delivery of service. "Politics are over and as leaders and teachers we should be focusing on important development projects like our children’s education," Murunga said. The MP pledged to give full scholarship to every student who achieved 400 marks and above and bursary to other top performers from needy families. The MP also asked teachers to focus on why the boy child had dismal exam results. Out of 13 pupils who attained 400 and above marks in the sub-county only 3 were boys. Among the reasons of mass failure in the area in this year’s secondary schools examination the MP blamed the failure of the Mumias Sugar Company. "Most farmers who are also parents didn't manage to pay school fee as most were not paid for their sugarcane by our company" Murunga said. The MP however complained of the delay in the release of the Constituency Development Funds (CDF) money to be used to pay school fees to the needy children. "It's unfortunate that the CDF money has delayed but when it tricks in January we will give full scholarship to those who are in need” Murunga said.  