As cocks crowed early Tuesday morning, large groups of supporters trooped from NASA's Nairobi strongholds for the swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. However illegitimate, a dream was coming true for Opposition supporters who believe Raila deserves to rule Kenya. For some, it didn't matter if they would be teargassed or face anti-riot police officers who had registered determination to avert chaos and protect the presidency. So they danced, chanted pro-Raila slogans, ran around, waved tree branches and blew horns and whistles. Raila the "enigma" arrived in a convoy of vehicles to cheers by a charged crowd and shortly took his oath of office. Details: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent Also read: I have not betrayed you, Kalonzo assures supporters, says he will take oath soon  Was security a good reason to miss swearing-in? But there was no downplaying the absence of his running mate Kalonzo Musyoka and the other co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula. Amid dismissal as traitors, the three later issued a statement assuring their supporters that there was no trouble. But Kenyans couldn't help but ask more questions. Hours later, Kenyans woke up to reports that Kalonzo's Karen residence had been attacked by unknown gunmen. The former vice president was at home during the incident at about 2am on Wednesday - when a grenade was reportedly hurled into the compound. There wasn't an explosion and Kalonzo later showed police a bullet and a grenade pin that he said he found at his home. He later said officers were investigating the attack but there have been reports that the incident was falsified. Was the security issue, that has certainly exacerbated by the alleged attack, sufficient reason for Kalonzo to skip the key Opposition function? If indeed the attack was a fabrication, what does Kalonzo stand to gain? For years, the Wiper boss has been dismissed as a 'watermelon' for not having a clear position in the political divide. His assurances that he is with the Opposition have not made much of a difference. Kalonzo wants to vie for president in 2022 following an agreement for Raila to rule for one term. Raila's dream has not come true despite five attempts. When Wetang'ula visited his co-principal at this home on Wednesday morning, Kalonzo told reporters that he was the one supposed to comment on the attack. He refused to give his remarks and said police need to finish their probe. "Allow me not to say anything since police are here. Let them deal with this. Raila and Mudavadi will be here by 11am," he said. More on this: Kalonzo refuses to comment on 'fabricated' home attack  'NASA not involved' Speaking to the media at around 10 am, Wetang'ula said the attack was not an affair of the National Super Alliance. This was what he said when asked if it was related to their absence at the much-hyped swearing-in. Seemingly agitated, he added: "How can I say anything before investigations? Are you trying to insinuate that it is a NASA issue? "We cannot arm people to protect us. This is a beastly act and we condemn it. As to who did it and why, that is neither here nor there." The Bungoma senator and Ford Kenya party boss thanked the media for "exposing" the attack. "This expose helps those with evil designs to back-peddle us. We send Kalonzo strong, sincere feelings of solidarity. Whatever he has gone through the whole night is regrettable but it's a sacrifice." Asked whether Raila would visit Kalonzo in Karen, Wetang'ula was not sure. "We will be here with Mudavadi, and probably Raila, to offer our solidarity. The leadership of NASA is exposed because we have no security. [But] our knees will not bend." Wetang'ula said full responsibility will lie with the government should anything happen to him and his co-principals. Read: State 'squarely responsible' for NASA chiefs' fate - Wetang'ula Click here for the latest political stories