There was last-minute rush within the Central Business District as parents carried out back to school shopping. A spot check by the Star at the weekend showed streets busy with parents, some in the company of their children,making preparations for schools scheduled to open starting today. From school uniforms to textbook shops and shoe stores, parents made their way to see what they could obtain. In one Bata outlet on Moi Avenue parents and shop attendants helped children get the best fit. Speaking to the Star, Isaac Matere, a supervisor at the Bata outlet, said they have been attending to parents since Education CS Fred Matiang’i announced the KCPE 2017 results last month. “Parents have been coming to our stores since the results were released.Most of them were doing early preparations to avoid last-minute shopping,” he said. Many parents in the store said back to school preparations started early for them because schools open a week after Christmas. Parent Janet Mueni said, “I didn’t spend a lot this festive season considering I have two children – one joining form one and another standard one. You can imagine the cost of new uniforms, shoe and, stationery.” Matere said most Bata sales are in school shoes. It is only in the evening that customers walk in to buy casual shoes. “This year the economy has been bad. It is why we do not have many back-to-school offers as has been the case previously,” he said. Right across the Bata store is the School Uniforms Limited outlet, which was fully packed. Parents were buying new school uniforms while some of the children could be seen fitting them. Georgina Maganga said, “I am excited to be joining form one. That is why I decided to accompany my parents to this place.” Parent John Odallo said, “The shop is packed but I am happy that most of the required uniforms are available here. As a parent, at times you have no option than to shop at the last minute since the festive season just came to an end.” At Savannis Textbook Centre near Odeon bus stop, it was a busy day as parents were purchasing textbooks. Parents could be seen jostling their way to the counters with lists of books in their hands. Some said they do not want to fully rely on the government’s promise to provide textbooks. “Private schools are not included, therefore,for us it is the same routine,” said parent Cynthia Njeri.