The High Court in Eldoret will on February 27 rule on the petition challenging the election of Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo. Justice George Kimondo issued the date of the ruling after hearing all witnesses in the petition filed by voter Sammy Kemboi. Kemboi claimed the election was marked by massive irregularities and rigging. But the MP told the court the polls were free and fair. He defeated independent candidate Jebii Kilimo with a difference of less than 1,000 votes during the August 8 polls. Kangago was declared the winner with 14,812 votes while Kilimo got 13,845. There was a difference of 967 votes. Kilimo did not file a petition. Kemboi said he decided to seek justice of his own volition because “the polls were a sham”. “There was excessive violence, voter intimidation, alteration of results, bribery and other irregularities and illegalities,” he said. Kemboi wants the court to determine whether Kangogo was validly elected. “In the alternative, it be declared Linah Kilimo was duly elected as MP for Marakwet East,” he said in his affidavit. nullification Kemboi wants the declaration of Kangogo as MP nullified, arguing the Forms 35A used showed Kilimo won, but the IEBC “used fictitious figures to declare Kangogo the winner”. The petitioner said there was excessive violence at Chesoi tallying centre, where Nancy Kipchumba was shot dead by police and four other people were injured. Meanwhile, a recount and scrutiny of votes in 11 polling stations has revealed different figures of votes in the ongoing Trans Nzoia Senate seat petition. Before the recount, the difference in votes between Senator Mike Mbito and former Senator Henry Ndiema was 625, but after the recount ordered by the High Court, the difference declined to 274 votes. Ndiema filed the petition against the election of Mbito arguing the August 8 polls were riddled with irregularities and illegalities that interfered with the will of voters. conducted badly Ndiema vied on the Ford Kenya ticket, and Mbito on Jubilee. The former senator has sued the IEBC, the returning officer in Trans Nzoia and Mbito. He claims the election was badly conducted, administered and managed by the IEBC and its returning officer and failed to comply with the Constitution and the Elections Act. Ndiema accused the returning officer of failing to allow him to appoint his own agents as part of a scheme to deny him victory. 