Jubilee MPs who were elected chairmen of various committees of Parliament last month against the wishes of the party leadership have defied Deputy President William Ruto’s order to resign. At a meeting of Rift Valley MPs on Wednesday at his Weston Hotel in Nairobi, Ruto ordered the four to relinquish their positions to allow Jubilee to distribute the seats appropriately according to regions. The four MPs: Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter (Labour and Social Welfare, Moiben’s Silas Tiren (Agriculture), Marakwet MP David Bowen (Environment and Natural Resources) and second-term Emgwen MP Alex Kosgey (Trade, Industry and Cooperatives) all told the Star yesterday they will not resign. “The Standing Orders are very clear. Committee chairmen are elected by members of the committee not by State House or by the DP,” Bowen said. Earlier in the day, word had gone round that the four had given in to pressure and resigned but when contacted all the four stood their ground. Ruto had reportedly spoken to each of the MPs earlier and asked them to relinquish their positions to facilitate regional balance. “He was very harsh and told us he wanted the region to be united and he was unhappy with the four,” an MP who attended the Weston meeting said. Earlier this month, the four obtained orders from the High Court suspending the decision by Jubilee party to de-whip (remove) them from the committees which they were elected to chair, thereby rendering their positions null and void. The Jubilee Party Majority leader Aden Duale last month said the defiant four will not be allowed to take up their committee positions. The MPs landed in trouble after trouncing State House-fronted candidates to chair the four committees. The Jubilee leadership unsuccessfully tried to have them step down but they refused. After several attempts the Leader of Majority de-whipped them from the committee, effectively removing them as chairmen. Sources at the meeting between the DP and the MPs said Tiren, Keter and Kangogo had openly told the DP that the party must restore their positions in the committees. The DP told the MPs at the meeting that not all their interests may be catered for when the Cabinet is finally named. “He said he is working with the President very well and that they would agree on the final list at the right time. Maybe end of this month,” a vocal MP from the region told the Star During the Weston meeting, Ruto clashed with Tiren after the MP said he would not be a pushover with regard to what he believed to be his right. To assuage their hardline stance, the DP is said to have pushed the matter to some of his close allies to discuss with the rebel MPs and come up with an amicable solution. Kuttuny will head the efforts and report back to Ruto after meeting them. “Am sure we will find a lasting solution that will have the interest of both our brothers and the party position on the parliamentary committees,” Joshua Kuttuny told the Star on phone yesterday. He said the main interest was to ensure the leaders discuss issues so that they don’t get out of hand. “The DP is our boss and we will brief him once we make headway soon,” he said. But Kosgey rebuff ed the efforts. “As it is, am planning to attend a retreat next week in Mombasa as the chair of the committee. Anyone dreaming of my resignation is doing just that — dreaming,” he told the Star. “I am a very a quiet person who doesn’t like trouble but at the same time I hate being taken for granted. If you rattle me in the wrong way then I will come out to make myself clear. I cannot be a pushover and I will remain chairman of the committee, as elected by MPs” Tiren told the Star in Eldoret. Tiren insisted he had been elected to chair the Agriculture committee and there was no way he would be pushed out. “I was elected by the people of Moiben to represent them in Parliament and I wonder what I will tell them if I step down from that position which actually touches on their lives directly because they are farmers,” protested Tiren. He dared Duale to go ahead and remove him. “If he has such powers to remove me let him do so and I will go back to my people,” he said. But Kuttuny played down the rift saying they have held several meetings as leaders from the Rift Valley and are on track to finding a solution. During the meeting, the MPs reportedly asked the DP to explain what was going on with the Cabinet appoints but he asked them to allow the President to do his work. MPs at the meeting included Turbo MP Janet Koech, Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and his Bomet counterpart Joyce Laboso. Read: Shollei, Metito in Jubilee list of committee heads  A series of other meetings subsequently took place at undisclosed locations in Eldoret and Nakuru where the leaders reportedly asked the DP to stand his ground against arm-twisting by Uhuru’s wing of the party. Some allies reportedly insisted that some CSs — including two re-named to the Cabinet by Uhuru on January 5 — be sent home.  regard to what he believed to be his right. To assuage their hardline stance, the DP is said to have pushed the matter to some of his close allies to discuss with the rebel MPs and come up with an amicable solution. Kuttuny will head the efforts and report back to Ruto after meeting them. “Am sure we will find a lasting solution that will have the interest of both our brothers and the party position on the parliamentary committees,” Joshua Kuttuny told the Star on phone yesterday. He said the main interest was to ensure the leaders discuss issues so that they don’t get out of hand. “The DP is our boss and we will brief him once we make headway soon,” he said. But Kosgey rebuff ed the efforts. “As it is, am planning to attend a retreat next week in Mombasa as the chair of the committee. Anyone dreaming of my resignation is doing just that — dreaming,” he told the Star. “I am a very a quiet person who doesn’t like trouble but at the same time I hate being taken for granted. If you rattle me in the wrong way then I will come out to make myself clear. I cannot be a pushover and I will remain chairman of the committee, as elected by MPs” Tiren told the Star in Eldoret. Tiren insisted he had been elected to chair the Agriculture committee and there was no way he would be pushed out. CABINET SLOTS They also want one of the two Cabinet slots reportedly reserved for Baringo Senator Gideon Moi’s Kanu set aside for Water and Irrigation CS Eugene Wamalwa who they believe could help Ruto’s bid in Western Kenya. There is also emerging consensus that former Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto and fl amboyant businessman Bundotich Kiprop alias Buzeki should make it to the Cabinet. Read: Why Uhuru, Ruto failed to name full Cabinet after daylong wait  This, according to MPs who spoke to the Star, is part of the wider scheme to ensure the four bigger subtribes out of nine in the region have a strong stake in the Jubilee government. Sources in the presidency told the Star that the DP had been meeting with some of the individuals proposed to serve in the Cabinet and other positions. Six professionals from Eldoret, including a senior doctor, who runs a private hospital, are among those who have held discussions with the DP on the possibility of serving in government. But Cherangany MP Kuttuny downplayed the schemes, insisting Cabinet is a prerogative of the President and his deputy. "We cannot dictate to them what to do. All the leaders want is the President and his deputy to come up with a list of people that will serve the country with dedication,” he told the Star Th e meetings started on January 5 when Uhuru named six CSs and nominated three others for vetting in a live announcement from State House. Th e DP was conspicuously absent. Ruto’s camp wants consultations in all appointments and at all levels of governance in what pundits have described as a thaw in the relations between the two leaders. Rift Valley opinion leaders also want the DP to stand his ground or else they will rebel against the party. Click here for the latest political news 