The Jubilee party vice-chairman David Murathe has said President Uhuru Kenyatta will remain the party leader even after 2022. Speaking in Gatanga constituency on Friday Murathe said the party will strive to form the next government and that President Uhuru will remain the leader to play a supervisory role. "President Uhuru will still be the leader of our party even after his term ends," he said. Read: Make us feel part of Jubilee party, leaders tell Uhuru Murathe also announced that the party has invited a delegation from China to help strengthen its structures. The delegation, he said, will be led by a member of the central committee of the Communist Party of China which is charged with electing presidential candidates. He said the delegation will arrive next week and will help turn the party into the strongest in the region. "The Jubilee party has merged 13 parties into one and I wish the opposition can also do the same," he noted. He said the Jubilee party gives all its members a chance to go through the ranks and compete for positions. Murathe also castigated Murang'a MCAs for shaming the party by engaging in physical fights. He said there is a need for leaders to unite and respect each other in their various roles. "It is upsetting to see the MCAs continuously in the limelight for the wrong reasons. Am asking the MCAs to respect the governor and the governor should also listen to them," Murathe said. His sentiments were echoed by Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati who asked governor Mwangi wa Iria to spearhead talks with the MCAs. "We don't want MCAs to be fighting when they can sit down and resolve their differences," Nduati said. The MP also urged the ward representatives to find better ways of solving their problems saying the fights paint them in a bad light. Jubilee party secretary-general Raphael Tuju on Wednesday held a meeting with Wa Iria and the MCAs separately and announced that the party would hold an induction meeting with the ward representatives next week to help quell their disputes. Tuju also nullified the changes the MCAs had made in the assembly's leadership and denounced the county chairperson Simon Gikuru who he said is not recognised by the party. Tuju also noted that MCAs who have engaged in fights will face the disciplinary committee of the party.The MCAs on Tuesday engaged in fistfights as the newly elected leader of majority Amos Murigi attempted to assume his new office.  Click here for the latest political news