Many supporters of Deputy President William Ruto, particularly from Rift Valley, are anxiously waiting for the next move the DP will make following the fallout with his lieutenants turned foes. Many believe the next move the DP makes after the fallout with defiant legislators led by outspoken Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter elected to chair key parliamentary positions will either make or break his 2022 presidential bid. Several leaders from Mt Kenya told the DP their support is not guaranteed. It is said some MPs from Rift Valley, the DP’s bedrock, have dared him to go ahead and strip them of their positions. The DP has all along been quiet and cast the ball to his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta after the defiant MPs walked out on him in his meeting at his own hotel. ***** Did a governor break into the public coffers to ‘facilitate’ an ongoing case challenging his August 8 win collapse? Word has it that a governor is said to have splashed Sh50 million on a judicial officer to have the petition filed by his rival thrown out. Our mole tells Corridors the governor took the sum from long-awaited Sh91 million Fuel Levy funds the national government released to the county recently. It is said one of the governor’s close ally was heard in a five-star hotel happily telling allies to his boss’s opponent that the petition died long ago and that they should begin looking for funds to clear the costs of the case. ***** Did one of NASA top lawyers and first-term legislator withdraw from the controversial swearing-in plans of Raila Odinga as the People’s President after being shortchanged on a parliamentary position he was eyeing? The MP, who was part of the team that successfully petitioned for the nullification of the August 8 presidential results, has surprised his colleagues with his sudden absence from the coalition’s activities and instead shares many pictures on Facebook of himself and constituents attending to their needs in the village. ***** A first-term MP from Eastern is a worried man after he learnt that sleuths from neighbouring Uganda are collaborating with their colleagues from Kenya to arrest and charge him with fraud he allegedly committed and vanished from Uganda, sometime back. The MP had his picture splashed in Ugandan dailies with other criminals in the country as a wanted man – for fraud and forgery. Word has it that the lawmaker used fake names and identity cards, leaving the authorities in Uganda’s Intelligence Unit wondering how he made it to become an MP in Kenya.