Fishermen in Lake Baringo have said they have been catching little fish since 2016. Some residents have blamed climate change for the reduced catch. The shortage of fish in the lake has forced many fishmongers to quit the one-time booming business. “Fishermen no longer supply us with fish. I opted to quit the business since October last year,” resident Talaa Chepkong’a told the media at Kampi ya Samaki on Friday. She said when business was good, she used to sell between 200 and 300 tilapia fish daily to residents and tourists. Chepkong’a said she was also selling fish in Nairobi, Nakuru, Kabarnet, Marigat and Eldoret towns. “Business went down and I could only sell between 10 and 20 fish per day. The earnings were meagre and I could  no longer pay secondary school fees for my two children,” she said. Another fishmonger, Zipporah Chelimo, said she used to sell one tilapia fish at Sh50 when the supply was still high. “But owing to the shortage, we had to hike prices to Sh150 for one fish,” she said. Chelimo said this has scared away most of her customers. She said she will quit the business if nothing is done immediately to address the scarcity. Ilchamus resident Josphat Olekajos, 75, said, “Maybe it is the climate change, because the water levels in the lake is intact.” He urged researchers to tour the area and establish what has caused the phenomenon. Baringo County Director of Fisheries Dickson Ongwai attributed the shortage of fish in the lake to water pollution and climate change. “There is stubborn water hyacinth weed that has covered parts of the lake since last year. Although the county government has injected funds to clear the rapidly growing weed, more needs to be done to eradicate it and control water pollution,” he said. Ongwai said the lake, which is the second largest lake in the Rift Valley after Lake Turkana, is a major tourist attraction site. Meanwhile, 15 journalists in Baringo were on Thursday and Friday trained on how to improve their reporting skills on climate change. The training was held at the Kenya School of Government in Kabarnet town. It was organised by the Kenya Organization of Environmental Education.