NASA leader Raila Odinga has reiterated that the train for his end-month swearing-in is unstoppable. He spoke on Saturday during a pre-inauguration rally at the Homa Bay stadium where he likened the meeting to the Biblical Last Supper that Jesus had with his disciples before his death. Raila said he is not cowed by threats by the government that he will be sent to the gallows if he takes the oath. He said about 300 NASA supporters have lost their lives since August 8 in their quest for electoral justice and his life is no different. “The lives of those people are not inferior to the life of Raila Odinga. I am saying it here in Homa Bay, those with ears let them hear. "If life sentence or death is what we have to pay for our right to democracy, we are ready. On January 30, which is next Tuesday, Raila Odinga will be at Uhuru Park to take the oath," Raila said. Read: NASA claims Raila got 8.1 million votes, met 50% plus one condition The opposition chief said the procession to the venue will be peaceful and called on NASA supporters to come out in large numbers. "If Kenyans don’t come out to defend their rights, they will be ruled forever by thieves. Come with white handkerchiefs. It is going to be the biggest peaceful demonstration ever held in the republic of Kenya,” Raila said. It however remains to be seen if the planned event will take place at Uhuru Park which has since been closed by the Nairobi County government for renovations. Read: Uhuru Park closure has nothing to do with Raila oath, says City Hall Earlier, while addressing supporters at a hotel in Homa Bay town during the Nyanza People’s Assembly convention, Raila said the figures released on Friday by Siaya senator James Orengo were the actual results of the August presidential election. He told the IEBC, which has since dismissed the results as a myth, to challenge Orengo’s figures by opening the server. “IEBC shouldn’t verbally refute the figures in the document we released on Friday. Let them be bold and open the server and show Kenyans who won the August 8 presidential election,” Raila said. Raila reiterated that they do not recognize the repeat presidential election conducted on October 26,2017. Read: NASA poll results misleading, a non-existent reality, says IEBC He was accompanied by co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi. Kalonzo said they were meeting Kenyans through the people’s assembly to get approval for the Uhuru Park ceremony. He said many Kenyans are tired of perpetual electoral theft noting that he is ready to take oath if that is the way to do away with it. “I congratulate my brother Raila for being strong enough to withstand three election thefts against him. He won in 2007, 2013, 2017 but this last one we won't accept and move on,” Kalonzo said. He accused Attorney General Githu Muigai for what he termed as interpreting the Constitution selectively. He also criticized him for going to court to challenge the establishment of People’s Assembly in the country. “Muigai shouldn’t look like working for a section of Kenyans in his interpretations of the supreme law. Talking about treason and thwarting people’s assembly in the country signify you support injustices in a democratic country,” he said. “We won’t be moved by Jubilee threats. We’re taking oath on Tuesday and that will be the process of fighting out electoral injustices in Kenya,” he added. Read also: August election results irrelevant, Uhuru tells Raila on oath plan Mudavadi said they have withheld the swearing in pressures from Kenyans for long but they cannot do it any longer. He said there is immense pressure from many Kenyans for Raila and Kalonzo to take oath. “The pressure is so much on us and we are not ready to fail majority of Kenyans who are with us. Let them be sworn in on Tuesday because it’s a popular position by Kenyans,” Mudavadi said. Other leaders who attended the meeting include Homa Bay governor Cyprian Awiti, his Siaya counterpart Cornel Rasanga and several legislators including James Orengo (Siaya senator) and Kitui Enoch Wambua (Kitui). Click here for the latest political news   