The support NASA leader Raila Odinga enjoys is enough for him to be sworn-in as president on Tuesday, his adviser Salim Lone has claimed. In an opinion article in The Star, Lone argues Raila has achieved more than any other national leader, having "won" three elections and two referendums. "The swearing-in is being forcefully propelled by ordinary Kenyans who have, since the fake October election, relentlessly pushed not-always-eager leaders to confront the plague of electoral theft and injustice through the revolutionary idea of swearing in," he says. "Raila was instrumental in winning the presidency for Mwai Kibaki in 2002. After Kibaki’s betrayal of the coalition that put him in power, Raila  - as ODM opposition leader - defeated the government’s proposed new constitution in the 2005 referendum, and he then won the next three elections in 2007, 2013 and 2017." He adds: "In 2010, he finally achieved his and Kenya’s goal of a progressive constitution. Not even presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel arap Moi and Kibaki have enjoyed such enduring national support except for their first few years of tenure." The Opposition plans to swear-in Raila at Uhuru Park in Nairobi but the government maintains this is illegal and will not be allowed. Attorney general Githu Muigai has already warned that the act will be treason whose punishment is death by hanging. In response to another warning by city police commander Japheth Koome, NASA CEO Norman Magaya earlier said they will not be deterred by "empty threats". More on this: Uhuru Park is the only option, Magaya says as Raila supporters arrive Lone argues that tomorrow's ceremony is just but part of the agenda of the Opposition. "This momentous, first-ever, people-led national debate is being narrowly cast as being about the swearing-in by the People’s Assembly, a powerful but essentially symbolic exercise," he says. He added the whole process is being driven "by a deep, decades-long malaise - symbolised by the holding of only one honest election in 2002 - which has repeatedly thwarted the power of ideas in determining the direction of Kenya’s future, by those with narrow ethnic-based followings whose mighty idea is the reliance on the armed might of the state." Read full opinion: Raila's swearing-in and People's Assembly have held Kenya together thus far Click here for the latest political stories