An Embu elders’ council chairman spent Tuesday night in jail. Andrew Ireri impersonated an advocate and managed the council illegally. The Nyangi Ndiiriri Council of Elders’ chairman was held at the Embu Prison after he was unable to raise Sh215,000. Embu resident magistrate Jean Ndeng’eri fined him after being convicted. Ireri has played big roles in protecting the rights of elders and other residents in Embu county. He has also participated in political drives. Ireri was found guilty of unlawfully drawing and filing civil suit documents in succession cases and managing the council. Ireri was charged that on December 22, 2014, he unlawfully filed summons for revocation of grants before the High Court in Embu in a succession case. He was also charged that on April 13, 2015, he filed a notice of motion and supporting affidavits in an Environment and Land case at the High Court in Kerugoya. In the third charge, Ireri was accused that on April 24, 2015, he filed a notice of motion and supporting affidavits in an Environment and Land case in Embu. The elder was also found guilty of unlawfully managing the elders’ council between December 24, 2014, and April 24, 2015. Ndeng’eri fined Ireri Sh70,000 for each of the first three counts or a year in default of each, and Sh5,000 for the fourth count or serve half-a-month in jail in default. She said in case he failed to raise the cash the sentences would run concurrently.Ndeng’eri said such cases have become rampant and there was need to stop others from committing the crime. After spending the night in jail, Ireri said he had been harassed by three Embu magistrates. He said they illegally ordered his arrest before hearing his case, saying the charges were fabricated. The elder said the magistrates usurped the role of the DPP after they wrote to criminal investigation officers to probe him over the offenses. Ireri said it was unfair for the magistrates to order his arrest, help the CIDs in the investigations and then hear the same case. He showed the press photocopies of alleged printed correspondences between the three magistrates and the DCIO. Ireri said the magistrates were biased and should not have been part of the case.