Division has sparked Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party over the vetting of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominees for CS and PS positions. Speaking separately to the Star on Friday, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula differed with secretary general Barrack Muluka on whether their parliamentarians should participate in the exercise or not. Savula said they will not allow the coalition’s top leadership to prefect them on what to do in the 12th Parliament. “I don’t understand why our principals told us not to participate in the vetting of CSs and PSs yet our names have formally been adopted in Parliament to various committees. Does it mean we boycott the sittings of those committees?” the Lugari MP said. Savula said his team in the House will meet on Wednesday next week to decide whether to participate in vetting the nominees. Related content  : Uhuru overlooks senior cops, appoints their juniors as deputy IGs “We will not just follow blindly what our principals tells us because we are elected leaders and have the interest of our voters. We will make an independent decision as ANC MPs,” he said. But Muluka said ANC MPs opposed to the coalition’s resolution to boycott the vetting exercise could be influenced by certain political quarters. “Individuals sometimes have certain rebellious traits while others are sometimes induced with certain incentives. Whenever that happens, we can’t go into that chamber to gag them,” Muluka said. “We have a collective position as a political party and it is the same position that has been taken by the coalition. Our position is clear and we have not vacated from it.” Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki has said vetting of Uhuru’s nominees to Cabinet will not be affected by the absence of MPs who are currently on a long recess until mid next month.  Kindiki says lawmakers will be recalled for a special sitting to finalise the matter and ensure the President has a strong team to help him develop the nation during his second and final term.  “If the President finds it needful to have his CSs and PSs vetted during the recess, Parliament will be recalled through the right procedure. I don’t rule out the possibility of special sitting,” Kindiki said.  Late last year, Savula complained that ANC was sidelined within NASA by being denied key top leadership positions in Parliament. “They cannot share all positions and leave ANC out then continue to assume that we are together,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 