Kenya has been shocked by the death of human rights activist Ken Wafula who stood firmly for the 2007/08 post violence victims. Wafula, 45, died of high blood pressure on Wednesday at St Luke's Hospital in Eldoret where he was admitted. He was diabetic. Read: Human rights activist Ken Wafula dies at Eldoret hospital With his ardent and vocal voice, he wanted the perpetrators of the poll violence found and punished at the ICC. He hailed from Eldoret, which was one of the areas that were worst affected by the mayhem following the 2007 disputed election. In 2016, Judges at the International Criminal Court threw out post-election violence charges against Deputy President William Ruto. A similar case against Uhuru collapsed in 2015. Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta were accused of fomenting murderous inter-ethnic violence in Kenya after the 2007 elections in the country. The events caused the deaths of over 1,300 and displaced of another 650,000 Kenyans from their homes. Read: ICC case crumbled because I’m clean, not for lack of evidence Also read: Uhuru presidential win killed ICC case - Bensouda 'No Fear' Being the most dangerous cases to defend, the father of three and husband of Miriam Njoki did not think much about his own life when he rose as one of the most vocal voices. Through his Center for Human Rights and Democracy, Wafula spoke his mind from the rooftop as some people who had an idea of what happened kept low profile. He was not afraid to say it as it is. But even with the fears of witnesses dying or missing mysteriously during the cases, this did not deter him from seeking for justice. Four witnesses linked to the ICC post-election violence probe went missing from their homes in Uasin Gishu county. Human rights groups claimed there was a vast plot to cover up the Meshack Yebei murder. Yebei’s family at the same time questioned the need for a DNA test, as demanded by Ruto's lawyer Karim Khan, insisting they had positively identified the remains. Wafula was at the forefront in naming the four missing witnesses. He insisted that Yebei was not a defence witness as the party against the case claimed. Others were Yohana Kimng'etich Bureti, Benjamin Kipchumba, and Phillip Arusei. More on this: Four witnesses missing,says NGO Read: It is Yebei's body, family of missing ICC witness says 'You turn shock' But Wafula stunned many when he said witnesses against Ruto and radio journalist Joshua Sang had been paid and coached. He wanted ICC to withdraw the cases saying Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's claims that witnesses were coached and procured, had affected his views. "I apologise to both the DP and Sang if indeed forces within the Government pre-determined and coached witnesses that I have participated in ensuring their protection," he said then. Read: Ken Wafula seeks to testify over ICC witness payments claims The ICC quietly compiled evidence of witness tampering in the collapsed cases against Kenya’s top leadership. A team of eight ICC sleuths came to Kenya in 2017 to collect and collate evidence of what they believe was massive witness interference in the now-defunct cases against the two. More on this: ICC starts fresh probe on witness tampering Click here for the latest political news