Drivers above 60 years will take an annual medical fitness report before their licenses are renewed. The National Transport and Safety Authority has introduced a new curriculum. Driving licences will be renewed every year for a period of nine years. In the 10th year, license holders will repeat the training and examination.  Those who fail the medical test will have their licences revoked. "Holders of Professional Driving Licences will be required to accumulate a minimum number of continuous development points set by a professional body of drivers annually as a condition for license renewal," a new curriculum states. Currently, there is no age limit for drivers. Some drivers get licenses through shortcuts. The NTSA said many of the road accidents are caused by speeding, reckless driving, dangerous overtaking, drunken driving, and bad attitude. . More than 330 people lost their lives in December alone. Under the new curriculum, drivers will take a theoretical test. It will consist a continuous assessment test administered after every 40 hours of training. There will be a final test at the end of all the units in a module. A learner must answer at least 35 questions correctly to be deemed to have passed the test. "The tests shall constitute 30 percent of the pass mark in the school’s internal test which shall precede examination for issuance of certificate of competence prior to licensing,"the curriculum says. Driving schools will keep each learners test answer sheets three years. Every driving school shall also maintain a register of attendance for each learner driver. A learner will be deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of training upon attending at least 75 percent of the lessons. Under the curriculum, only those who attain a minimum aggregate score of 70 percent in final test will be presented for examination. Drivers who fails in an examination offered in a driver test centre will be referred back the driving school for re-training provided that no re-testing is done before the expiry of 21 days. A candidate who fails to take the re-test will have to register a fresh and re-do the course. On December 19, acting interior CS Fred Matiang'i hinted that driving schools will be vetted and those that don’t meet the criteria will be deregistered. Drivers will undergo thorough vetting. Their ages and health will be checked before they acquire new digital driving licences starting this month. Drivers found speeding or driving under the influence of alcohol will have their licences revoked.