Mumias Sugar Company former chief executive Errol Johnston has welcomed a planned financial probe at the miller. Johnston welcomed the government to investigate the alleged misappropriation of the Sh3.2 billion bailout fund it gave out. Board chairman Kennedy Ngumbau issued a statement during the company’s AGM on December 22, 2017. He said there would be investigations on how the previous management spent the money. The Sh3.2 billion was issued while Johnston was at the helm of the company – from August 2015. The company reopened in October last year after five months of closure. The company was closed for routine maintenance in May and was to reopen after three months. The reopening was, however, delayed due to a sugarcane shortage and financial constraints.
Speaking on the phone on Sunday, Johnston denied the Sh3.2 billion payout was misused. “I read in the press that the finance are alleged to have been misused and it’s a statement that is unfounded,” he said. “I would welcome the opportunity to corporate with the proposed inquiry, not only to defend my reputation, as I have nothing to fear from an impartial and professional investigation, but also to set the record straight.” Under investigation will be the former CEO’s office and the Finance, Audit and Procurement departments. Johnston said the board chairman may have had a hard time during the AGM explaining to stakeholders why the company is not makig profit. He said the pressure may have led him to say the investigations are underway. “I am sure the chairman faced a difficult task at the AGM in explaining the desperate situation. It was expected that he would blame someone else who was unavailable to defend themselves,” Johnston said. The former CEO is out of the country. He said every penny of the Sh3.2 billion can be accounted for since the national Treasury approved the budget. Johnston said the funds received were audited by KPMG, an independent firm, in collaboration with the national government. He added that the Finance Committee played an oversight role and the board was aware of expenditure. “To assume that the management misused the funds implicates each member who played any oversight role.”