The High Court has declined to grant landlords orders to evict Nakumatt from their premises. Justice Fred Ochieng said he can not grant any other orders on landlords’ application as Nakumatt and the new administrator needs more time to work on the company’s recovery. “Recently I gave an administration order to help in the liquidation case, let’s give them time to work”, Justice Ochieng ruled. The judge said he can not order re-entry of landlords into the premises. The court is now working closely with the administrator to ensure that the embattled retailer is back onits feet. The landlords, through their lawyers, had argued that they were seeking an order to be allowed to repossess their premises, “as Nakumatt was unwilling to pay rent arrears”. “We seek leave to repossess our premises, not rent arrears, because Nakumatt has failed to deal with fundamental issues. The landlords should not be used in the proposed merger or administration,” they said. Nakumatt had made an application stating there was an offer by Tuskys to pay rent for a period of three months starting from March to May. “We’re not certain we will be paid our rent arrears. Tuskys may discontinue to pay after the three months, as they have no single application on payment of the arrears,” they added. Tuskys merger was only to pay for the months going forward, not the arrears, they said. Nakumatt sought re-entry into the premises as they wanted to continue with business. “Without the premises, there is no business and no income generation to pay the arrears,” it said, adding the business is viable. Last week Justice Ochieng granted the administration order after a successful application by four of its suppliers and gave them 60 days to work on the recovery of the company. While delivering his ruling on administration, the judge said he had allowed the application as it would be easy for Nakumatt to manage on the payment of its creditors if an independent administrator is appointed. “It is hoped and expected that the administration Order if properly executed, will be beneficial to all the creditors. I therefore not choose to penalize or to reward any party through an order which would see one or another party pay costs to others”, Justice Ochieng ruled. He directed Nakumatt directors to assist the administrator achieve objectives of administration as long as the administration order remains in force. Click here for the latest political news