Kenyan Sneha Kotecha humiliated Burundi’s Hoziane Kitambala 6-1, 6-1 to bounce back to winning ways in the second leg of Nairobi International Junior tennis Championships at Nairobi Club. Sneha succumbed to Gabonese Celestine Avomo Ella in the first leg finals over the weekend but recovered in the second leg to edge out the Burundian to reach the second round. Seeded second in the girls category, Sneha had to endure the humid conditions currently being witnessed within the capital city to maul her wasteful opponent who was consistent in scattering returns. The Kenyan girl was largely untroubled in the opening set where she collected easy games courtesy of Kitambala’s returns which more often than not went past the edges. Sneha lost the fifth and the only game of the set to win the opening set. Proceedings were no different in the last set, where Kitambala failing to come back with a solution to her returns. Her wastefulness in the forwards and backhands was her undoing as the single game recorded in the second set did little to save her from crushing out of the tournament. Sneha attributed her win to patience and the ability to bounce back. She said; “I lost last week and definitely the feeling wasn’t good. I had to focus on the second leg and I am happy I have started it on a winning note. I had to be patient especially after losing last week’s final and I hope I will carry on with the same spirit until the finals.” On the other hand, Kenyan boys fell in their first attempt to bid farewell to the second leg. Derrick Ominde, Brandon Sagala and Mwendwa Mutuku lost their first round matches to Marcello Serafini, Shaskaar Choubey and Enrico Wood respectively. Ominde lost to Serafini of Italy 6-3, 6-2, blowing his dream of soldiering on to the second round. He, however, revealed his plans of intensifying his training sessions for the third leg due in a week’s time. He said: “It’s sad I lost in my first attempt but I have picked lessons. I want to train with the experienced senior Kenyan players to improve on my returns and serves. If I can a manage to successfully make a return to a senior player, I am sure I will be able to handle the players in my age category.” Mutuku lost to Wood of Italy 6-3,6-0 while Sagala fell to Choubey of India 6-0, 6-1. Meanwhile, Kenyans are hoping top seeds Ryan Randiek and Albert Njogu will redeem the country’s hopes today when they begin their second round matches after poor show by their counterparts. The two, fresh from bagging the Pre-Davis Cup tournament, will use the experience gained in tackling senior Ugandan players in bullying their age mates in the second round. Click here for the latest political stories