More students have joined Form One as a directive by Education CS Fred Matiang’i that parents be forced to take their children to school bears fruit. Enrolment in Mombasa and Kwale has increased to 70 per cent after the directive was issued last week. Mombasa county director of education James Kairu yesterday told the Star that parents were positively responding to the directive. “We have seen an increase in the number of students joining Form One. As of Friday last week, 70 per cent of those selected to join Form One had reported to their respective schools,” Kairu told the Star on the phone. Matiang’i issued the order last week when he toured Mama Ngina Girls’ Secondary School in Mombasa. The CS found that only 82 students of the 192 selected to join Form One at the institution had reported. In Kwale, enrolment had also improved. County director of education Bridget Wambua said the number of those who had joined Form One stood at 57.1 per cent. Less than 25 per cent had reported to Form One by Monday last week. “Many parents were not prepared because of financial challenges. We have however seen an improvement over the last one week,”  Wambua said. OPERATION LAUNCHED Matiang’i met elected leaders from the Coast, government officials and education stakeholders at the Kenya School of Government in Mombasa to discuss the low transition to secondary school. He launched the operation “Tupeleke Watoto Shule,” (Let’s take our children to school), which was to be enforced by the national government officials from the local administration in conjunction with the county education officials. “We will go to the primary schools where these children studied so that we establish which schools they are supposed to report to,” Matiang’i said. The low enrolment forced the Education ministry to extend the deadline for those reporting to Form One by a week. During the first week, only 754 students joined Form One in Kwale out of the 5,568 that were expected to be admitted to various schools. Kwale Woman Representative Zulekha Juma said parents were unable to take their children to school due to lack of school fees. Juma asked the government to make secondary education absolutely free. “The government has failed in ensuring that education is totally free,” Juma said.