DID Wafula Chebukati refuse to travel to Israel with one of his senior officers? We are told that the IEBC chairman was invited to attend a meeting in Israel and he was due to travel with Immaculate Kassait, the voter registration Director who was sent away during the repeat presidential election. When the chairman saw Kassait’s name, he removed it, and told his officers that there is no way he would go to Israel with Kassait. STILL on matters IEBC, we are told that the commissioners want to be treated like small gods and are being extravagant with almost everything. As part of austerity measures, the Head of the Public Service ordered all public officers to fly Economy Class. But the IEBC commissioners have disregarded that order and instead have insisted that they should be booked into Business Class whenever they fly – both locally and abroad. A section of NASA Senators have accused State House of interfering with the election of committee chairpersons by fielding and bulldozing their rubber-stamping. Corridors keenly followed the election process where NASA candidates were trounced in various committees. Some of the lawmakers walked out of the Transport committee’s election, alleging that it was interfered with by State House. Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi clinched the seat, while his Marsabit counterpart Godana Harugura scooped the vice-chair position. KENYA Ports Authority’s Second Container Terminal tender continues to raise eyebrows even as anti-graft sleuths pursue collusion claims involving a Japanese evaluator and one of the bidders. Those in the know say pressure has been building to raise the cost of the construction of CT2 by at least Sh1.7 billion by amending evaluation formulae. These attempts have however been resisted by the evaluation committee members. Investigations on these irregularities are on. A battlefield has now been opened between the Election Union polls observation mission and the government of Kenya. The observation mission claim that the government was for postponement of the release of its damning final report that showcased certain occurrences during the two Presidential polls conducted last year. But the government insists there was an agreement to have the publication postponed. Corridors’ moles are torn on whom to believe.  Click here for latest political news                      