The NPSC has defended itself for shortlisting only George Kinoti and Edward Mbugua for interviews, saying they were the only qualified applicants. Kinoti will be interviewed on Thursday for the position of acting DCI boss and Mbugua for that of deputy IG in charge of Kenya Police Service. Read: Kavuludi team starts recruiting police chiefs but NASA protests Three other people - Bernard Nguma David, Bernard Ombati and Milka Cheptinga - submitted applications for the position of DIG. Cheptinga, a practicing lawyer, also applied for the DCI director job, becoming the second after Kinoti, but her application was rejected by the commission. Johnston Kavuludi, chairman of the National Police Service Commission, said: "The law says one
should be a police officer and not below the rank of assistant IG. She might
be a very good lawyer but she is not a police officer of the rank of AIG
and above." Kavuludi further noted that the other applicants were a police constable, a prisons constable and a prisons counselor. He said they did not meet the qualifications to hold the office of IG as required by the law. The chairman said all applicants from the APS - former Kenya Police Training College commandant Noor Gabow, Planning and External linkages director Vincent Makokha and assistant IG Musa
Kakawa - were invited for interviews as they all qualified. Kinoti and Mbugua were appointed the acting DCI and KPS bosses by President Uhuru Kenyatta who sacked
their predecessors Ndegwa Muhoro and Joel Kitili respectively, on
January 5. Uhuru also fired DIG in-charge of Administration
Police Service Samuel Arachi and replaced him with Gabow. More on this: DCI boss Muhoro fired as Uhuru reshuffles police bosses Also read: Raila attacks Uhuru over replacement of top cops The NPSC advertised vacancies in the three offices and invited applications to fill them on Thursday last week. The
law requires holders of the offices to be police officers of the rank
of assistant IG and above, who must have university degrees and more than 10 years' experience in administrative positions. The
chairman said the law requires the commission to forward names of at least three people, among those who applied for each of the vacancies,  for the president to pick one. Senior KPS officers who sought
anonymity termed the exercise a formality and said the three men Uhuru appointed "must emerge the best in NPSC interviews". Most
senior officers shied away from the jobs. But Kavuludi said: "We
invited anybody qualified to apply ... anybody who wanted to applied. You can't go to people's homes and tell them to apply. If people applied but their names are not here they should challenge us". He said the interviews will be closed-door and that the media will not be allowed into the sessions. "They are professional interviews. The matters we are interrogating touch on key security institutions that deal with very
technical security issues." Click here for the latest political stories