Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked his ODM counterpart Raila Odinga ODM to consider equitable representation in various house committees. Kalonzo while speaking at a People's Assembly rally in Mombasa said though Wiper, ODM, Ford Kenya and ANC are under NASA coalition, they(ODM) should not grab everything for themselves. Read:House committees' row, Raila oath plan top NASA secret meeting agenda "Mimi niko hapa leo na ningependa kuwauliza wenzetu wa ODM wasijinyakulie kila kitu ndio pia Wiper wapate kidogo. Sisi tuko nyumba moja ya NASA kwa hivyo wacha zote tufurahie kuwa na mzazi mmoja sio?," Kalonzio said. This loosely translates to, " I want to ask our ODM friends not to grab everything for themselves but allow also Wiper to get a share. We are under the same NASA house and we should feel proud to be under the same parent". The coalition has been facing wrangles over appointments parliamentary select committees leaders. NASA mainly comprises of ODM, Wiper, Amani National Congress, and Ford-Kenya. Wiper and ANC parties have openly protested the manner in which positions were shared out in the National Assembly and the Senate. They accused ODM of strategically edging out the other partners in the coalition which was formed ahead of the August 8 general election. Read:Read:NASA Summit set to meet amid unease over posts, Raila oath NASA is also faced with the pertinent issue of the planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo as the president of the People's Assembly. But Kalonzo said there swearing in is inevitable and nothing will stop them. He said every day the country is moving fast to a serious crisis that can only be resolved by comprehensive dialogue. "IEBC defied the Supreme Court order to open the servers. The also conducted a sham election on October 26 that has embarrassed this nation across the region. We are currently in a conflict, every day we are moving to a serious conflict that its consequences will be unbearable," he said. Kolonzo also took to the floor to chide former senator Hassan Omar for ditching Wiper for Jubilee terming him as a man after selfish interests. He said it was worth noting despite Omar shifting camps, Mombasa region had shown its solidarity with NASA's creation of people's assembly. His sentiments were echoed by governor Hassan Joho who said all the six counties within the region are ready for the Assembly. Joho said a time has come when every Kenyan must stand up and defend electoral justice that will see Kenyan democracy space prosper.     