Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko yesterday sacked three members of his ‘dream team’. They are his personal assistant Bernard Mulwa, delivery unit deputy director Joseph Ireri and aide Michael Mutua, appointed just three months ago. Yesterday an advertisement in the Standard published the names, ID numbers and photographs of the three officers. The notice from the governor’s office was flagged ‘public caution’. “The county advises the public that the persons whose photos appear below are neither employees of the governor’s office nor of the county government, hence, are not mandated to transact any business on behalf of the county,” the notice said. A month ago Sonko also dismissed dream team member, director of Public Communications Mukami Kamau, a sister of Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. The former Vivo energy MD resigned, effective January 30. City City hall sources tell the Star her sacking for unclear reasons was one of the frustrations that contributed to Igathe’s frustrations and resignation. They were appointed in October with much fanfare to drive Sonko’s agenda to rejuvenate the city. The notice also urges the public to beware of anyone masquerading as county officers and soliciting bribes from contractors and suppliers to facilitate payments. It does not specifically say any of the three were involved in wrongdoing. However, it says anyone whose been swindled of money should report to the DCI, the EACC or report directly to the county cutomer care No 0725624489. duping jobless youth The notice said some individuals purporting to be county staff are soliciting bribes from unemployed youth, promising them jobs as security constables and firefighters. Mulwa was part of Sonko’s campaign team and has represented the governor at various high- profile events. Sonko’s dream team included journalists and other professionals still in place. K24’s Joab Mwaura was appointed a director of the governor’s press service and Richard Bosire, an editor at Radio Citizen, his deputy. People Daily’s Sarah Ndung’u was appointed media liaison officer Sonko also appointed Githende Gachanja as his economic adviser, Alphonse Mutinda as legal adviser and Abel Onchari as a political adviser. Mulwa was arrested on Monday evening by Flying Squad officers. A senior officer told the Star he was arrested in connection with a fraud probe.