The protracted battle over the printing of the new-look currency intensified yesterday. The Central Bank of Kenya and British firm De La Rue sought to reverse orders terminating the multibillion-shilling contract. The Central Bank filed an urgent application at the High Court accusing the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board of acting illegally and irrationally. The procurement watchdog nullified the Sh10 billion-a-year tender award to De La Rue International on Monday, opening a new battleground. De La Rue, similarly filed a separate suit seeking to quash the decision cancelling its contract, saying it was unreasonable. The two files were placed before Justice Chacha Mwita yesterday, who certified them as urgent. He further directed CBK and the United Kingdom-based firm to serve the review board with the suit papers immediately. Justice Mwita also directed the two applicants to appear before a judge of the Judicial Review Division on Tuesday for further directions. Both CBK and De La Rue will be asking the court to suspend the board’s decision pending determination of the case. CBK is expected to issue new currency in line with the 2010 Constitution that outlaws the use of images of individuals. Other firms including Giesecke & Devrient, Crane Currency and Oberthur Fiduciaire of France were interested in the lucrative contract for printing new notes, but De La Rue won the award. Crane appealed the decision to award to De La Rue and on January 8, the PPARB directed CBK to undertake within 14 days a fresh evaluation of all tenders submitted by the four bidders. The board was of the view that the award to De La Rue was unlawful and so was a 15 per cent preference margin given give to it. According to the review board, the bank’s regulator flouted the public tendering procedures. CBK, through lawyer Ochieng’ Oduol, however, says the tender was accurately and lawfully reflective of the capacity demonstrated in its bid and accompanying material. The lawyer said in rendering the judgment, the review board acted irrationally by failing to consider the mandatory terms of the Public Pand Asset Disposal Act as well as tender documents. “It acted illegally by allowing a request for review that was filed out of the statutory period of 14 days,” CBK says.