Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter lost his Labour committee chairman post following a vote of no confidence by his Jubilee Party counterparts on Tuesday. Nominated MP David Ole Sankok moved the motion claiming they did not take into consideration the requirement of regional balance. "I can also be a chairman. I was chairman of Sonu when I was [at University of Nairobi]. It's not about qualifications. It's about balance. There was no consideration of regional balance," he said in Parliament. More on this: Defiant MPs summoned to State House But Keter said passing a vote of no confidence would mean legislators were working  with the executive yet Parliament should be independent. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta summoned four MPs who defied the party's directive to resign from the committees they were elected to head. The other three were Moiben’s Silas Tiren, Marakwet MP David Bowen and Emgwen's Alex Kosgey. They defied a directive by deputy president William Ruto to relinquish the seats they had won, against their party's wishes. The four have been at loggerheads with Jubilee Party chiefs in Parliament after going against president Uhuru Kenyatta's preferences and working their way to committee leadership roles. Keter said: "I thought names given by the president and DP were suggestions but was surprised to realise they [gave directives]. "We are setting a bad tradition. Parliament has the capacity to produce its leaders. It is wrong to be seated here instead of going through an induction." An agitated Keter further said it was unfortunate that the party wanted him out because of regional balance. "We were elected to lead the people of Kenya and as long as we are here, we work towards the betterment of Kenya, not because of a president's directive." The lawmaker noted Parliament's mandate is not to create balance but added "if you insist on having your way then we move on". "We have to insist on the constitution. You cannot sit here and purport that I am not fit to sit here. We have no reason to stand here and say that we are MPs. The constitution is supreme." Echoing what Keter said, Nominated MP Wilson Sossion said the decision was the most reckless one they had ever made. "It is sad ... it is sad ... it is very sad. This is the most reckless process we have ever engaged in. I have confidence in the chair and vice chair," he said. Sossion noted Kenya needs a Parliament that is not influenced by other arms of government. "The three arms of government should be independent. Parliament should be allowed to do its work instead of listening to people outside," he said. NASA MPs were asked to skip today's meetings for four parliamentary committees as the ruling coalition sought to oust rebels from leadership positions. In a letter seen by The Star on Monday, minority whip Junet Mohamed directed the opposition MPs to skip the meetings as they had exercised their mandates. The Suna East MP wrote the letters to all members of the Labour and Social Welfare, Agriculture, Environment, Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library committees. More on this: NASA directs MPs to skip meetings on removing Jubilee rebels Also read: Jubilee MPs go to court after 'irrational' removal from committees Click here for the latest political news