Two aeroplanes were grounded at the JKIA in Nairobi on Thursday for violating cargo carriage rules. Transport CS James Macharia said they were involved in illegal operations at the airport. He did not specify the airlines in his address at the airport during the signing of a service charter for six ministries. "I am happy to announce that two airlines operating illegal activities have been grounded. Whoever else is engaged in such activities should be warned that action will be taken without delay and mercy." This comes a day after the CS said a team of investigators had been deployed to probe claims that some aircraft operators at Wilson Jomo Kenyatta International airports violate cargo carriage rules. He made the decision following exclusive reports by The Star that exposed illegal practices with the potential to hurting Kenya Airways’ expected direct flights to the US. Read: Team set up to probe airlines ignoring cargo carriage rules The International Civil Aviation Organisation is planning an audit in Kenya in July amid concerns the country may fail and get blacklisted like Uganda. The ICAO banned all planes registered in Uganda for safety reasons. Kenya could face the same problem if the current situation is not corrected. Any blacklisting will automatically affect Kenya’s planned launch of direct flights to the US. More on this: US in 15 hours: KQ's maiden New York flight to cost Sh89,000 Every aircraft has its own operation guidelines contained in the Aircraft Flight Manual. But some Air Operator Certificate holders who provide freight services locally and in the region have blatantly disregarded regulations that guide cargo carriage. Macharia noted: “This is a serious matter and I want to get to the bottom of it so we can take decisive action." The minister said investigators are expected to present their report in two weeks. "We are taking these reports seriously. Any operator found culpable will face the law." Captain Macharia Kibe, who is Kenya Civil Aviation Authority director general, warned in December last year that airlines cannot use passenger aircraft to transport cargo. Click here for the latest political news