The World Health Organization has challenged countries to roll out Universal Health coverage to reduce the impoverishment associated with payment for health services. The global agency’s primary role is to direct international health within the United Nations’ system. It leads partners in global health responses. In a statement on its website yesterday, WHO said 100 million people are still pushed into extreme poverty because of health expenses. Related content : Achieving universal health coverage in Kenya through Innovative financing “Protecting people from the financial consequences of paying for health services out of their own pockets reduces the risk that people will be pushed into poverty,” it states. “Unexpected illness requires them to use up their life savings, sell assets, or borrow – destroying their futures and often those of their children.” Universal health means all individuals and communities receive health services they need without suffering financial hardship. It includes essential, quality health services, from health promotion to prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, and palliative care. More than 800 million people (almost 12 per cent of the world’s population) spend at least 10 per cent of their household budgets to pay for health care. The global agency noted many countries are already making progress towards universal health. Achieving universal health coverage is one of the targets the nations of the world set when adopting the Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Countries that progress towards universal health coverage will enhance steps towards other health-related targets. All UN member states have agreed to try to achieve universal health coverage by 2030, as part of SDGs. WHO says good health allows children to learn and adults to earn, helps people escape from poverty and provides the basis for long-term economic development. Already, the Makueni government has rolled out its universal health coverage programme. The county plans to register 100,000 new households under its Universal Healthcare programme by December. So far, the county government has registered more than 30,000 households. Each household in Makueni pays Sh500 for the Makueni County Universal Healthcare Fund. Healthcare workers in the county have also been increased from 1,100 in 2013, to 1,600. Universal health coverage requires strengthening health systems in all countries. Click here for latest political news