The decision to have the images of former Presidents removed from Kenyan currencies as required by the Constitution now lies in the hands legislators. MPs upon resuming from recess mid next month are expected to decide on a petition presented to Parliament seeking to block the removal of the portraits through a constitutional amendment. A political outfit, Republican Liberty Party (RLP), has petitioned National Assembly to amend Article 231 (4) of the Constitution which bars Kenyan currencies from bearing portraits of any person. Read : Kenyan designer dares CBK to unveil 'real notes' as sketches go viral “Notes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Kenya may bear images that depict or symbolize Kenya or an aspect of Kenya but shall not bear the portrait of any individual,” reads Article 231 (4) of the Constitution. RLP officials Zachariah Matayo (Chairman), Jackline Elisha (Secretary General) and Edward Nyakeriga (Legal Secretary) argue that the Article is “repugnant and bad in law” while proposing that the founding father Jomo Kenyatta's portrait should be retained. “The face of notes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Kenya shall bear the portrait of the first president of the republic of Kenya while the back for the notes shall bear the image of the National Parliament and the coins to bear the image of the Coat of Arms,” reads the petitioners' proposed amendment. RLP officials accuse the drafters of the 2010 Constitution of being driven by mischief in having the portraits removed from currencies. The petitioners' action comes at a time when activist Okiya Omtatah has sued CBK and its governor Patrick Njoroge for violating the Constitution by not issuing currencies without Kenyatta's image.  Also read : New currency notes to be issued by May 2018 Omtatah wants the court to declare that CBK has violated the Constitution and be compelled to issue new currencies without an individual's portrait within six months. New currencies were supposed to be rolled out within five years after the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution. The new currencies are supposed to bear the Kenya's exclusive, attributable and unifying features such as wildlife among others. Republic Liberty Party officials, however, disagreeswith the Constitution on grounds the founding President's image symbolizes Kenya because it captures the history, heritage or culture of the country. “The Indian currency bears the image of Mahatma Gandhi (a historical aspect connecting with their spiritual leader), Britain currency bears the image of the Queen Elizabeth II (their national heritage and leader), American currency bears portraits of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln (their leaders in the space of history),” the petitioners say. They also cite Russia, Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt, China, Japan and France as countries whose currencies bear images of people whom their history is attributed. “There is no exclusivity with any aspect of nature, landscape or physical features attributable to Kenya, save that the same may be referred by different and regional names when such aspects are actually similar or the same as those in any neighboring countries,” argue the petitioners. They are opposed to using images of wildlife on grounds the animals migrate from one area to another while physical features such as mountains resemble those in neighboring countries. The petitioners argue that Parliament and Coat of Arms images on currency are exclusive Kenyan architectural features and design. They ask MPs to use the parliamentary initiative to amend the Constitution to effect their demand. Click here for the latest political news 