Former Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma yesterday filed an appeal against his petition loss, saying the court erred in dismissing the case. Last week, Kisumu High Court judge David Majanja dismissed Ranguma’s petition against Governor Anyang Nyong’o’s election. Majanja said Ranguma had failed to prove his case against Nyong’o. Ranguma, who appealed the ruling through lawyer Richard Onsongo, said he was dissatisfied with the judgment. “The judge erred both in law and fact. He failed to appreciate that the burden of proof shifted to the other respondents based on the evidence tendered by the petitioner,” Onsongo said. Ranguma said he disagreed with the whole judgment. He wants the court to nullify Nyong’o’s win and order a fresh election. In his affidavit, Ranguma said Majanja misunderstood the grounds of his petition. “He treated it as one based on the contents and substances of Forms 37A, 37B and 37C,” Ranguma said. He said the court failed to to refer to and let itself be guided by its own decisions on the scrutiny and recount of votes. Ranguma said the court’s decision went against the weight of evidence. Majanja said Nyong’o could not be called to answer a case whose basis had not been pleaded or proved. He said Ranguma’s case was founded on relay and transmission of results, the lack of impartiality, neutrality, efficiency, accuracy and accountability on the part of the IEBC, failure of operational transparency and improper voting, counting and tabulation of results. Ranguma had accused the IEBC of deliberately manipulating the votes to Nyong’o’s favour. Majanja said the allegations were vague and embarrassing. He said such vagueness could not be cured by merely stating that the grounds, information and evidence in the supporting affidavits are detailed. Ranguma had insisted electoral malpractices were committed during the polls. He said his agents were barred from inspecting and scrutinising ballots. They were also denied access to polling stations. Majanja struck out Ranguma’s claims, including ballot stuffing. “There was no evidence of stuffing of ballot boxes, unofficial ballot papers counted in favour of Nyong’o, use of extra ballot papers, introduction of the use of unofficial ballot paper booklets,” Majanja said.      