Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has sacked three of his aides just three months after appointing them. They are his personal assistant Bernard Mulwa, delivery unit deputy director Joseph Ireri and Michael Mutua. Sonko published the names, ID numbers and photographs of the three officers in the dailies on Tuesday. “The county advises the public that the persons... are neither employees of the governor's office nor of the county government, hence are not mandated to transact any business on behalf of the county,” reads the notice. The three were part of a 'dream team' that Sonko unveiled in October last year to steer his agenda. Sonko warned the public of people masquerading as county officers and soliciting bribes from contractors and suppliers in the name of facilitating their payments. “They are also soliciting bribes from unemployed youths, promising them employment as security constables and firefighters," he said. “Nairobi wishes to state that soliciting and receiving bribes is a criminal offence hence any person masquerading as a Nairobi county employee or associating the county government with such criminal acts should be apprehended and prosecuted in a court of law." Elkana Jacob, who is communication deputy director, said the sacked aides took advantage of their closeness to Sonko to defraud residents. "They have never been employees of either the country or the governor's office. One of them [Mulwa] was arrested last evening by Flying Squad officers while receiving bribes from members of the public." Read: Sonko fires cabinet, advertises positions Sonko's 'dream team' included journalists and other professionals - K24's Joab Mwaura was appointed a director of the governor's press service and Richard Bosire, an editor at Radio Citizen, his deputy. People Daily's Sarah Ndung'u was appointed media liason officer while former Kiambu director of public communication Mukami Kamau served in the same capacity at City Hall. She was sent home last December for unclear reasons. The county chief also appointed Githende Gachanja as his economic adviser, Alphonse Mutinda as legal adviser and Abel Onchari as a political adviser. Click here for the latest political news