Attorney General Githu Muigai’s case challenging the formation of the People’s Assemblies in 14 counties has been referred to Chief Justice David Maraga to constitute a bench to Hear it. In his ruling, Justice John Mativo said the case raises substantial issues and questions of law. “I find there is a compelling need for me to exercise my discretion and certify that this matter raises substantial points of law,” Mativo said. In his application, the AG said the case should be heard by a three-judge bench since the case raises weighty issues that need more than one judge to determine. However, lawyer Arnold Ochieng’, for the County Assemblies, opposed the application for the bench, arguing the case can be heard by one judge. He said having perused the AG’s petition, it does not pass the threshold to be heard by a bench. In the case, Githu is challenging the constitutionality of the People’s Assembly motion that has been passed in 14 county assembles in NASA strongholds. The AG wants the court to quash all resolutions that have been passed by the 14 assemblies. According to the AG, the county assemblies that have passed the motion have contravened the Constitution. “The Constitution has established structures and institutions within which any grievances can be addressed within the law. Any other mechanism other than that which is provided in the law is an attempt to overthrow the Constitution and is thus null and void,” the Petition reads. The AG also asked the court to issue an order prohibiting any other county assembly from passing the People’s Assembly motion. The AG the People’s Assembly is an illegality as the term is alien to the Constitution, and is neither established within the framework of the County Government Act or any other legislation. The People’s Assembly is not envisaged in the Constitution. “The greater range of issues in the proposed agenda for the People’s Assembly was domiciled within the mandate of Parliament, being the constitutional body tasked with the oversight of commissions and independent offices, including the electoral agency, the review of devolution implementation, and the legislative scope on electoral laws,” Charles Mutinda, representing the AG, said.  