A storm is brewing between Murang'a MCAs and Governor Mwangi wa Iria over interference with assembly operations and finances. The county legislators have accused the Governor of stalling their efforts to streamline services with the help of an unnamed county assembly leader. "We have had a difficult two months because the Governor had his friends take up leadership positions, including that of Majority leader," an MCA, who requested anonymity, said. "Anything we push for is hit on the head, but we are working to end this.  "We are yet to get our December salaries because the money comes through the Governor's office. I guess the objective is to make us broke so we can bend in whichever direction." The alleged differences have caused Jubilee Party leaders in the county to seek an audience with the ward representatives and other leaders. They want a solution following a letter by the MCAs to the party's national leadership. "Pursuant to articles 19(2), 7(2) 3, 19(1) 19(2)1 and 5 of the Jubilee Party constitution, notice is hereby given of the Muranga County Assembly Caucus to be held on January 5, 2018 at Trotters Hotel, Kenol at 9am," states a message to MCAs. "The caucus shall address our party's leadership in the assembly and the 2018 agenda. Take notice that by dint of this notice, the Speaker and all other party and affiliate members of Muranga County Assembly are deemed to have been duly notified." Jubilee interim chairperson Simon Gikuru said the caucus will take place and that only invited guests will attend. "The meeting is going to take place because it is within our party constitution. We already communicated to the top leadership. We have also made arrangements for security for the attendees so as to avoid disruptions or scuffles." But opposing teams have threatened trouble as revealed in messages seen by The Star. "The meeting will have no impact because those guys purporting to be county officials don't know their mandate ended on August 8," reads a message from a former MCA. "We have Bidco, another close ally of the Deputy Governor. Let him be warned through his people," another states. Reached for comment on the allegations, Wa Iria said he would not talk to journalists or any other people. "I do not care who you are ... I will not respond to anything so calling my office will not help you. If need be, I will take this personally," he said before ending the phone call. But his political adviser Moses Kang'ethe said his team was not planning to attend the meeting as it is a caucus between the party's county leadership and MCAs. "I may not know of such plans but we are not attending any meeting. We will get back to you on this," he said. Click here for the latest political news