The row between the Butere diocese of the Anglican Church of Kenya and Butere Girls’ High School over land ownership has taken a new twist after the county entered the fray. Kakamega county has threatened to pull down the Canon Awori Memorial Cathedral, which is under construction. The cathedral is being built by a private developer on a parcel that is part of the school land. Bishop Tim Wambunya had reached an agreement with developer Julius Mwale to build the cathedral for the church. The developer would then build apartments and a shopping mall on the land. The two agreed to share rent proceeds. The county has now directed the diocese to halt all activities and demolish structures it has erected on the school land. “Please note that in the case of failure to comply, the government may enter on the said land and execute the requirements and may recover, as a civil debt in any court of jurisdiction, any related expenses incurred,” a letter addressed to Wambunya, and seen by the Star reads. The letter, dated December 29, 2017, was signed by the county chief officer for Lands Joel Wamalwa. Wambunya said the land is on lease by the Church Commissioners of Kenya. “In this regard, we advise that you recall all your correspondences and redirect it correctly to the Church Commissioners of Kenya. We have informed the CCK of your astonishing and confusing correspondences and they are waiting to hear from you in order to respond," Wambunya said in his reply letter on January 2. Wambunya also wrote to Lands executive Alfred Matianyi requesting for a meeting to address the dispute. “We are writing to request for a meeting at a mutually agreed date to resolve the current dispute regarding the construction of the ACK cathedral, Butere on title No I.R.N 2079 in the name of our trustees,” the letter dated January 2 reads. “Meanwhile, we request that you cease any planned action that could be detrimental to the ACK Diocese of Butere. We feel that the diocese and our trustees have not been given an opportunity to explain themselves,” the letter reads. The letter was copied to Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and the CCK. Sources told the Star that the CCK was set to meet officials of the county over the dispute. “They have even called the county lands chief and asked him not to respond to the letters by the bishop until they meet this week,” the source said. The county says the land, which formerly belonged to the defunct Butere Teachers Training College, is on a 99-year lease for educational use. It says the use cannot be converted into commercial purposes. The county said the church had not requested for a change of use.