Has the government threatened to shut down media houses that will broadcast live the planned swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka on Tuesday? Editors are divided after allegations that State House on Friday threatened to shut down TV stations that will broadcast the event live. Chairman of The Kenya Editors’ Guild, Linus Kaikai said a few editors were summoned to State House where President Uhuru Kenyatta threatened to close and revoke the licences of any media house that would publicize the event live. Read: 'NASA colluding with cartel media': Why Uhuru refused to debate Raila Kaikai said that the direct threat has subsequently been echoed, off record by other senior members of the government. "We have just learnt today that on Friday last week, a section of media managers and select editors from the main media houses were quietly summoned to a meeting at the State House, Nairobi, the objectives which were unknown. But the proceedings should be clear cause for alarm to the media and the public." Kaikai said. However, Kaikai statement was contradicted by the Vice-chairman Samuel Maina. Maina who attended the meeting said at no point did the President threaten to gag the media. "What is being termed as a "dress down" is a misrepresentation of facts. We had a fruitful discussion and we all agreed that media freedom has to be accompanied by a high degree of responsibility. At no point were any threats issued to media houses or any ultimatums given on how we choose to broadcast matters of public interest, or those relating to the current political situation in the country," Maina said. According to Kaikai, the brief was attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi, ICT Secretary Joe Mucheru and AG Githu Muigai. It is rumoured that the four did not bode well for the freedom of expression and press in the country. "The Guild is appalled by the details of the meeting which was held under an atmosphere of intimidation for the media representatives present. Chairman of the Media Owners Association Hannington Gaya on Monday evening confirmed that the tone of the meeting as a ‘dressing down’ in which the media was, quote; ‘read the riot act.’" Kaikai said. He added: "This brazen threat is intended to intimidate the media from performing its rightful role of informing the public on matters affecting them," Kaikai said. While condemning the act, Kaikai called on media managers and editors not to be swayed away by the threats. "We would like to state it with all the clarity we can that the media is not an actor in the ongoing contest between Jubilee and NASA over the outcome of the last General Election. The Media remains a mere messenger and a chronicler of any events happening in our country. Our country’s vibrant media is made up of competent professionals of journalists and editors that continue to make sound decisions on what constitutes news, in public interest." Also read; I talk to Kenyans directly, not via media, Uhuru says after skipping debate  Click here for the latest political news