NASA leader Raila Odinga has remained adamant he must be sworn in and form a parallel government to the Jubilee administration.  In an exclusive interview with VOA’s Swahili service, Raila said he does not recognise the October 26 election insisting he won the August 8 poll. He said he will form a government after his planned January 30 swearing-in which can even operate from outside the country. "This is not a joke. On January 30, we will be sworn into office using the August 8 results. An illegitimate government is in power. The true government, the one Kenyans voted for, is outside," Raila said. His remarks came as opposition MPs began signing affidavits Wednesday in a show of allegiance to the opposition chief and his impending oath. Read: NASA's radical plan for Raila's swearing-in Also read: Wanjigi, Miguna pushing Raila to take Jan 30 oath Several counties affiliated to the coalition have also passed the People’s Assembly motion on whose basis Raila intends to ‘rule’. "We can even be a government in exile. It has happened in other countries." "What we are saying is that Kenyans can no longer allow an illegitimate government not elected by the people to rule them," Raila said. The opposition chief yet again dismissed as hot air attorney general Githu Muigai’s warning that the oath will amount to treason. He maintained that Kenya’s sovereignty rests with the people in whose behalf he will take the oath. "Kenyans have taken back their sovereignty because we have a situation of an illegal government…and we will continue with that power given by the people." Raila downplayed claims of a rift within NASA ahead of the planned swearing in saying those are little disagreements that can’t derail the grand plan. The coalition has held talks in three consecutive days without reaching a common ground over how to share parliamentary leadership slots. His co-principals are also said to be split over the swearing-in. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula are said to be vouching for dialogue with Jubilee while ANC's Musalia Mudavadi has remained non-committal over the oath. Raila said sibling rivalry in any family does not mean there are disagreements. "Few people who missed out on the slots in Parliament may want to create small problems. Our enemies think that signals the end," he said. Raila said plans to hold talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta are still on the cards but insisted such talks cannot be held under duress. He said NASA has already crafted a five point agenda on which to base the talks. "We are waiting for Jubilee to put to the table its agenda. If Jubilee does not, we will not force them. We will go on with our plans, and they can go on with theirs, and then we will see where we meet." He said foreign diplomats are welcome to mediate the process but that their presences will only be needed after Jubilee and NASA have reached a deal. "They can advise us but they cannot force us. Kenya is not a colony of America. We are a free country. We will do as we want," Raila said. Uhuru has, however, ruled out talks with the opposition outfit saying talks can only be with his deputy William Ruto in 2022. He has also warned that the law will take its course against anyone who tries to act contrary to the Constitution. Read: NASA MPs sign affidavit for Raila's January 30 oath Click here for latest political news 