Police have launched a manhunt for three Bungoma MCAs accused of leading the ejection of new Friends' School Kamusinga principal from the institution. The three, Aggrey Mulongo (Kibingei), Elvis Abuka (Milima) and Luke Opwora (Nominated), were last week captured on camera while ejecting Alex Maina from his office. They warned him of dire consequences if he resisted the eviction. Maina was rescued by police. Bungoma county commissioner Joshua Chepcheng immediately ordered the arrests of the MCAs. The county lawmakers are believed to have escaped into neighbouring Uganda. Speaking to the star on phone yesterday, Chepcheng said they will hunt the MCAs from their hideouts in Uganda. "We will go for them wherever they are. The culture of impunity must stop," Chepcheng said. The MCAs have since switched off their phones. "We know they escaped arrest on Friday because they knew they would stay in the cell for three nights. But they must be arrested by Monday [today] afternoon latest," a police officer involved in the manhunt said. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula has defended the MCAs. Speaking at a funeral in Bumula on Saturday, Wetang'ula said the MCAs were within their rights as education stakeholders. Wetang'ula accused Education CS Fred Matiangi of failing to consult before the transfers were effected. "I will seek audience with the CS on Monday [today] to halt the transfers," Wetang'ula said. Matiangi has said the transfers will not be rescinded. He told politicians to keep politics out of schools. Maina replaced Edwin Namachanja who has been at the helm of school since 2011. The MCAs accused Maina of under performance. Those opposed to him say he came from a smaller school Ole leisser in Kajiado and doubted his performance. Kamusinga is a national school that has performed well with a mean of oven ten in the past decade. A section of Education stake holders who support him Maina say he has enough experience having been a head of alliance boys for ten years in the past.