Shujaa have been pitted against United States of America, Samoa and Canada in Pool ‘D’ of the Hamilton Sevens this weekend in New Zealand as they Shujaa are fresh from bagging 10 points at the Sydney leg over the weekend that saw them jump from 11th to ninth place on the World Sevens Series log after three tournaments with 23 points. Innocent Simiyu charges will be seeking to achieve their targets of getting past the Main Cup quarters this time round. Kenya open their campaign against Samoa in their opening pool match. Shujaa and the South Pacific Islanders have met once this season with Samoa winning 19-15 in Cape Town in the Challenge Cup quarter-finals. Innocent Simiyu’s charges face Canada next in their second meeting of the season after Kenya defeated them 29-15 in Dubai last December. They wind up their preliminary assignments against their former coach Mike Friday’s USA. Australia, winners of their home tournament, have a date with Fiji, Wales and Spain in Pool ‘A’ . Pool ‘B’ will see series leaders and champions South Africa entertain England, Russia and Papua New Guinea. Hosts New Zealand are in Pool C and battle with Argentina, France and Scotland. Head coach Innocent Simiyu was encouraged by the performance in Sydney and wants the players to carry the momentum to the Hamilton leg. “I am pleased we bagged the 10 points from Sydney so we will rest and recover for a day or two and start our preparations for the Hamilton leg,” added Simiyu. Simiyu said he expects a competitive pool in Hamilton. “It’s wide open. Look at Samoa; they are physical and will be looking to bounce back from Sydney. Matches between us and Canada have been very close and it promises to be hard fought game while the USA have been consistent side this season and will offer a formidable test,” added Simiyu. Elsewhere, the Kenya Rugby Union have announced the dates for the six rounds of the 2018 National Sevens Circuit. The circuit begins in Nakuru on July 21-22 before moving to Eldoret the following weekend. It will then take a break for two weeks before resuming in Nairobi with the Kabeberi Sevens August 18-19. The Driftwood Sevens will take place in Mombasa a week later. Kisumu will host Dala Sevens on September 8-9 with Christie Sevens bringing down the curtains on the circuit. Click here for the latest political stories