Public outcry has greeted the decision by MPs to grant themselves mielage allowances and car grants despite the Salaries and Remuneration Commission scrapping the perks. Civil society groups yesterday described the move as “insensitive to the plight of Kenyans”, criticising the court for suspending pay cuts on MPs salaries. Samuel Kimeu, the executive director of Transparency International, Kenya, and Churchil Suba, the coordinator of the National Civil Society Congress told the Star on the phone “Kenyans are now on their own”. “It is regrettable our MPs opted to overturn what the SRC had made.The MPs ought to be at the forefront defending the good of the nation, but now Kenyans have no one to look up to,” Kimeu said. “This is a serious case of conflict of interest. It is insensitive of them to say the least and as Kenyans we must find ways to revisit  the law,” he added. Read: SRC cuts salaries and allowances of public officers make demands Suba said it is now upon Kenyans to rise up and demand their leaders obey the decision made in the interest of the public. “This is greediness of the highest order. The matter went to court, the judge ruled temporarily suspending the SRC changes to their salaries and allowances. Now the MPs have effected their demands and the ruling that is expected will be of no good use to the current situation,” he said. He added, “Kenyans are now on their own. We have nowhere to run to and the earlier we woke up the better”. The executive director of the International Centre of Policy and Conflict said if the court rules upholding the SRC’s  position, the Parliamentary Service Commission should immediately recover the cash. He questioned why the court suspended the gazette notice, saying the PSC negotiated for the salaries and  allowances for the legislators. He pointed out that each of the MPs knew what they were going to earn before they ran for office. The SRC  had proposed a new pay structure before the election that slashed MPs’ salaries from Sh710,000 to Sh621,250 per month. Read: MPs' Sh2.5 billion golden handshake for no work done Click here for the latest political news