Efforts to prepare our children for a competitive globalised knowledge economy are laudable. Gross enrolment ratios in primary school now average about 100 per cent in the East Africa Community region. Similarly, investments to improve access to secondary education are gathering steam. According to Unesco’s Global Education Monitoring Report 2017, the effective transition from primary to lower secondary general education was between 54 and 68 per cent in 2014. EAC member states recognise youth as the foundation and most valuable asset, with a vital role to play in advancing socioeconomic prosperity. Moreover, the EAC Secretariat recognises that the youth are critical to developing and sustaining the East African Community. But youth are viewed as a social and political risk. There is also a pervasive perception that youth embody a shifting set of values and ideals that are different from mainstream society. Hence, youth programmes across the EAC region seek to respond to young people’s lifestyles, cultures and values, which are perceived to be in conflict with society and established structures. The concerns that underlie the objectives of the youth policies in the EAC region, with respect to values, identity and culture, are not unique. A large body of theoretical and empirical work point to the progressive decline in the influence of tradition and social institutions in the formation of youth values. An important context to understanding youth is the fact that our societies are on a breathtaking neoliberal trajectory. Hence, it is useful to think of values as implicated beliefs and identities, which also signify material resources (money, land, real estate, livestock etc) given worth in our societies. In a recent book, Neoliberal Moral Economy: Capitalism, Socio-Cultural Change and Fraud in Uganda, Jorg Wiegratz observes that neoliberal reforms affect the political economy, culture and moral structure of a society. A money rationale, individualism is powerful. Self-interested, and fraudulent, corrupt practices are increasingly recognised as acceptable, necessary or legitimised because they aid people’s urgent need for money, success and status. A study by the East African institute revealed that in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, about 58 per cent of youth admired those who made money by hook or crook, 45 per cent believed corruption was profitable and about 44 per cent would take or give a bribe. Conversely, only eight per cent of Rwandan youth believed corruption was profitable and only 10 per cent would take or give a bribe. According to Willy Mutunga, Kenya’s former Chief Justice, the integrity and moral crisis facing Kenya is a reflection of the quality of the elite, who are largely driven by self-interest, greed, opportunism and materialism. What our youth have become is consistent with theories of conformist transmission of values and cultural co-evolution of institutions and dominant but warped elite values, which privilege greed and self-interest. While education is critical in preparing our youth for the future, it is not sufficient. We must invest in building a strong moral and ethical foundation for our youth. But why is Rwanda different and what can we learn from them? Alex O Awiti is the director of the
East Africa Institute at Aga Khan University