A Kenyan Journalist Dennis Musundi Omondi is appealing to wellwishers to help him raise Sh12 million to undergo a bone marrow transplant in South Africa. The 31-year-old photojournalist at West Media was admitted in January at the Kenyatta National Hospital after he was diagnosed with Acute Leukemia. He told the Star that he has tried to reach out to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to see if they could help him but his efforts have been futile.  According to him, he travelled upcountry during the Christmas festive season and travelled back to the city on December 27. He started feeling dizzy and weak and decided to seek medical attention at Shalom hospital in Athi River. "From 28th to 30th I was treated for Malaria but unfortunately the feeling persisted and I had a high fever. I visited the hospital again and ran several blood tests before the doctor told me that I had an abnormal production of red and white blood cells," he said. He said though the doctors could not tell him what type of bacteria infection it was, he was given some antibiotics and advised to return for review after a week. "I exhausted all the medicine I was given. When I returned on for the check-up, I was told that nothing had changed. They took some blood samples and told me to collect results after a week," he said.  But on his way home he changed his mind and on Tuesday he opted to seek alternative checkup. "I visited the Kenya Medical Association and requested to see doctor Walter Mwanda. Though he was not in, I was given an appointment and I went. He conducted a full blood test on me," Omondi narrated. He said the results were just as those at Shalom hospital and thus doctor Mwanda decided to do a bone marrow test. The 20-minute test he said indicated he has Acute Leukemia. "The doctor advised me to start immediate medication and referred me to Kenyatta where I was admitted. He said the best option will be to do Chemotherapy and bone marrow transplant," he said. He said the doctors at KNH have been helpful in doing some blood transfusions. "All I want is to get medical attention. I trust that God is the healer with the support of good friends I know all shall be well," he said. Omosh, as he is commonly known, is a father to one child and he and his wife are expecting their second child in May. He says his father died in 1997 forcing their mother to move to their Butula home in Busia County. "After my dad's death, my two sisters also followed. One died shortly afterwards and another in 2013". he said. He is the only one among his four brothers with a white collar job. 