Raila Odinga insists he will swear himself in as President on January 30 – unless President Uhuru Kenyatta reaches out to him for dialogue on electoral reforms ‘blah blah blah’. In 2007, Raila was the ODM presidential candidate against PNU’s Mwai Kibaki. Kibaki was declared the winner and was sworn in for a second and final term. Raila rejected the results and refused to follow the law in challenging Kibaki’s win. Instead, he chose to cause chaos across sections of the country that supported him. More than 1,00 people were killed, hundreds of thousands displaced, and billions worth of property destroyed. Raila then used these deaths and destruction to negotiate himself into power, forcing Kenya to create a special office for him as Prime Minister. In 2013, he was again a presidential candidate, this time under Cord. He ran against Jubilee coalition’s Uhuru Kenyatta. Again, Raila lost that election but insisted he won. After realising it would be difficult for him to re-create the 2007 political environment, especially considering he had lost as Prime Minister of the coalition government, he chose to go to court. The court threw his petition out. He insisted the court was compromised and sulked for five years, insisting he had been ‘cheated’ of his 2013 ‘victory’. Last year, the opposition chief was again a presidential candidate, this time for NASA. He stood against Jubilee Party’s Uhuru again, who was seeking a second term. Raila lost for the fourth time and, again, insisted that he had won. He tried to cause chaos but realised his message of ‘No Raila No Peace’ was not selling. He then went to court, insisting he was only doing this to give the court an ‘opportunity to redeem itself after 2013’. The court ‘redeemed’ itself, according to him. He won the case and the presidential election was nullified. Another one was slated for 60 days. Surprisingly, he decided to boycott. The election went on as scheduled and Uhuru got an overwhelming mandate. Now Raila is insisting he won the August 8 election that he asked the Court to nullify. He is also insisting he will be sworn in as President based on the results of that election! Raila has promised us – and the world – that if Uhuru does not reach out to him by the said date Kenya will have another ‘2007’ moment; or maybe worse. Essentially, he is promising us that he will call out his supporters into another series of violent ‘No Raila No Peace’ demonstrations. He is promising us that thousands will die. He is promising us that hundreds of thousands will be forcibly displaced. He is promising us that property worth billions will be destroyed. His NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula; and folks like Miguna Miguna (who hates Raila with a passion); are urging him on, passionately. They insist they are with him; they will even die with him. They want the swearing-in. They want the violence. They want the deaths. But what they want even more is for Raila to exit Kenya’s political landscape. He is taking up too much space, especially that which belongs to them. Wiper, ANC and even forces within his own ODM are tired of his hold on opposition politics — 20 years is a long time - and counting! His proposed swearing-in provides an opportunity to break free of him. In the violent aftermath, Raila will certainly be forced out of Kenya’s politics; by the state, and maybe even by the International Criminal Court. With friends like this, Raila does not need enemies.   Raila is the Nyeri Town MP