DP William Ruto faces a major split among his key allies after three MPs from the Rift Valley defied an order to resign from House leadership posts. They are Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter (Labour and Social Welfare committee), Moiben’s Silas Tiren (Agriculture) and Marakwet MP David Bowen (Environment and Natural Resources). Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said on Saturday the Kalenjin community may be divided on the matter and debate on 2022 politics. “We are asking our MPs who have differences to sort them out amicably, instead of washing their dirty linen in public. This will cause divisions among our people,” Mandago said. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, a close ally of the DP, on Friday asked Jubilee to punish MPs who defied Jubilee Party leaders President Uhuru Kenyatta and the DP. They were asked to step down as committee chairmen. Sudi said Tiren, Bowen and Keter should resign as directed by the party and their positions be taken up by other MPs for equal sharing of positions. Defiant legislators Sudi said the defiant legislators are in the wrong and should respect the party decision to share out parliamentary positions nationally. “They are my friends, but on this one they are wrong. They have to respect their party as we all do,” Sudi said. Speaking in Eldoret, Sudi said the position taken by Keter as chairman of the Labour and Social Services committee was meant for the Coast region. “When we campaigned as Jubilee, we told Kenyans that we are equal and we will share available seats,” Sudi said. He said Jubilee had the right to punish the legislators if they will not back down. They defied the party and have refused to resign, saying they were elected procedurally and will not be forced to quit. “My three friends should know that as a region, we cannot take up all positions as if the other parts of the country do not exist. They must toe the party line,” Sudi said. Ruto summoned the MPs to order them to quit but they told him off and also declined to attend a meeting at State House where they had been summoned by President Uhuru. No pushover Yesterday, Keter insisted he will not step down, while Tiren said he would not be a pushover on what he believes is his right. “We were elected by MPs and those thinking otherwise can do what they want, but we will fight to the end,” Keter said. However, Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny said they were still in consultation and would this week hold meetings to sort out the matter. “We have agreed as leaders that we will meet to discuss the problem and possibly resolve it as soon as possible,” Kuttuny told the Star on the phone. Farmers in the North Rift have backed Tiren and his colleagues to keep on the positions in the parliamentary committees.