Soon after the swearing-in and assumption of office of the President, the head of the Executive arm of government, the Cabinet is normally constituted. However, sometimes Cabinets are formed through reshuffles and snap elections, or when there is change of guard at the top. On January 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced part of his Cabinet, heralding heightened anxiety among local political players, the diplomatic corps with strategic interests in the region and business leaders. The anxiety is understandable because the Cabinet secretaries are the windows through which influence is peddled and interests leveraged in government. Individuals and groups secure their vantage positions in government by holding sway over the actions and operations of respective state functionaries, most prominent of whom are the CSs. It is, therefore, unsurprising that intense lobbying precedes the formation of the Cabinet. But unbeknown to many, there are time-tested approaches that normally would guide the leaders in naming their chief operating officers and policy advisers, and these would be classified as theories, myths and realities.  THEORIES The factors involved sometimes revolve around theories of government as handed down for generations through academic discourse. One of these is the party manifesto. In democracies, parties play a prominent role in the process of interest aggregation and articulation. The party is the vehicle that guides the electoral completion by presenting candidates for election to various positions of leadership. As they do this, they also present to the electorate policy positions on various social issues and hope that they market their programmes better than their competitors. The person thus identified and chosen as the flagbearer — President or Prime Minister — is expected to be the most visible vision bearer of the party as they seek the people’s mandate. It is, therefore, expected of the winning candidate that upon being declared the victor, there will be consultations with the party leadership on how to constitute the Cabinet. The President in this case would select from among the party rank and file, persons who have demonstrated high fidelity to the party ideology, and are enthusiastic on the party manifesto to be appointed to the Cabinet. However, in our case, as is in most Third World countries, this situation does not obtain. This is because the presidential candidate is also both the party leader and benefactor. This renders the need for consultation nugatory since the party leader is also the founder and vision carrier of the party. The manifesto, therefore, has insignificant, if any, influence on the choice of who joins the Cabinet and in what position. Under normal circumstances, the manifesto would borrow and be drawn from the political philosophy of the party, usually embodied in the ideology. In advanced democracies, parties are formed along ideological lines, following known patterns of interest organisation in terms of aggregation and articulation. People would then be recruited as members based on these ideological persuasions and social groupings. The known ideologies of the world include communism, capitalism, liberalism, socialism, labour and a mixture of any two or more in varying degrees with democracy as their denominator. However, my experience and understanding of political parties through various studies in Kenya and in Third World countries negates this premise. Parties are formed least based on ideological frameworks but more on the expediency of the founding leader and the exigencies of the time. Parties and political organisations thus lack in philosophical depth and grounding and thrive more on the basis of the benevolent leader’s idiosyncratic considerations. Yet the leaders also fail to demonstrate deep understanding and persuasion of any ideological theory of government. The leaders and, by extension, the parties they establish are characterised by flippant approaches to management of public affairs through their respective Cabinets. The philosophy of government is once again the least of consideration in Cabinet formation, especially in Third World countries. The last issue for consideration under the theme of theory is the broad national development agenda, which would influence how candidates create affection with the electorate. In our case, Vision 2030 is still the most dominant development blueprint quoted by politicians on both sides of the political divide. The contenders for high office ordinarily craft their pre-election campaign issues in such a manner as to make them appear the most suited to deliver the people’s development goals. During the election period, candidates make pledges through public declarations and often enter into formal agreements with various interest groups and regional kingpins on specific deliverables upon being voted in. These commitments are expected to influence and to a large extent determine the choice of persons to be considered for appointment to the Cabinet. This has, however, remained wishful thinking. It has been shown over the years these pledges are made by politicians to basically cheat the electorate so that they can win the vote. Therefore, the national development agenda and the pre-election campaigns rarely determine who joins the Cabinet. Kenyans must have noted that even the current administration has crafted the Big Four development agenda after the election, which is not quite entirely consistent with their pre-election campaign promises.  MYTHS From time immemorial, there have been myths associated with the factors that determine the choice of who becomes a member of the “court”. The people who join the leader in decision-making jurisdiction are considered to have been predisposed to and destined to be by circumstances of fate. But as it is claimed, these are myths and no scientific proof has ever been proffered to justify them. One of the myths is family and religious influences. It is claimed some lineages are leader-blooded. That your government would be jinxed if none from such known families is within the ranks. The same goes for some religious orders. It would be a blessing to have some influential members of certain religious groupings in the Cabinet to invite blessings and ward off any unforeseen misfortune. Instances of government leaders going out of their ways to ensure such persons are in their Cabinets abound. During the Roman Empire, the Pope had immense influence on the court and quite often his word against you would mark the end of your stay in the Cabinet if not execution. In modern times and in Kenya in particular, the location of the ACK Bishop’s house next to State House together with the Processional Way linking the House on the Hill with the All Saints’ Cathedral are not occurrences of coincidence. And during Daniel Moi’s presidency, the AIC Milimani Church played a major role in shaping the government’s agenda for the following week and throughout the 24 years. Similarly, some families have been known to be represented in almost every government and regime almost for eternity. The lineage of the person forming the government influences the family origins of the choices for Cabinet positions. The other myth is the pervasive influence of underground social cleavages. These groups operate anonymously but exert pressure on the winning candidate through covert activities. Their activities come to bear on the candidate as the Cabinet is crafted so that their oft-illicit business and social enterprises are not disrupted. They include undercover formations such as the Mafias and the many brotherhood societies and recently the Illuminati movement. They are faceless and almost amorphous but feared to be ruthless, lethal and clinical. These cleavages normally work in cahoots with dominant national interests embedded in government institutions such as the bureaucracy and the army. Instances where regimes have been overthrown without much regard to their performance litter the continent and beyond. The frequent coups in Madagascar, the political instability in many South American states and the easing out of office of President Thabo Mbeki and recently the removal of his neighbour, Robert Mugabe, are examples of faceless but immensely powerful forces in government. In spite of all of the above approaches to Cabinet formation, government leaders are always guided by practical considerations when nominating people to serve in their governments. As Kenyans await the naming of the other Cabinet secretaries, they should remember the factors that would determine who gets in and eventually gets the parliamentary approval are issues not hitherto directly canvassed.  REALITIES Once elected, the President soon realises that the political environment has realities that must be confronted and the pre-election promises do not necessarily have to be honoured in full. His or her personal vision infused with the ever-overarching need for a lasting legacy is one factor that will have a dominating effect in how the nominees are selected. Every leader, regardless of the circumstances of legitimacy and popularity, is interested in and keen on bequeathing memorable and eternal programmes and projects with which they would be remembered by posterity. The other reality that the leader has to deal with is the pre-election deals entered into with dominant players most of the times in exclusive privacy. These deals include regional support, campaign materials often presented as donations and strategic support from external powers that have interests in the country. As columnist Okech Kendo would say, these are the steak-holders of the country and have sway in the political direction of the nation. If, for example, Uhuru had a deal with Moi before the election that would have more bearing than the influence that would come from the officials at Jubilee Party Headquarters.  VESTED INTERESTS The other factor that Uhuru and any other leader in his shoes would consider based on reality would be the cyclic vested interests. There are formations whose operations and survival depend on the government. Their lives and future are intertwined with the activities of government so much so that they cannot survive outside of government. These formations will always strive to be active and involved in any government irrespective of whoever wins. They have no spine as it were, and will do whatever it takes to secure their interests in government. No head of government is ever able to push them out even if their interests sometimes undermine the vision of the leader. They actively assist in the lobbying process that occurs before and immediately after the elections. They introduce businessmen and foreign government influence peddlers to the incoming leader, for which effort they are normally considered for kickbacks, commissions or portions of accruing profits. These vested interests would mine the leaders’ past to dig up compromising events. They would take advantage of the leaders’ historical baggage for purposes of manipulation and blackmail. The leaders thus find themselves helpless when confronted with their demands and would yield without giving much explanation as to the reasons for such decisions. They will, therefore, insist on having a foot inside the Cabinet by pushing one or two friendly nominees. They do this using both overt and covert means but ensure they succeed in their endevour at all costs. These are the factors that determine the composition of the Cabinet and President Uhuru may be influenced by one or a combination of some as he constitutes his government in his final term.