Although I'm not the right person to comment on Jubilee's Cabinet performance — I don't recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as President — his last administration's performance has been wanting. Most ministries have not performed as expected; all CSs fell asleep. Education CS Fred Matiang'i is being praised — for what? A minister is supposed to come up with clear policies to safeguard education. We see only emotional reaction to exam cheating. That should not occupy a ministerial mind for even a month but this minister has been preoccupied for five years. Cheating should be curbed by examination officers, it can't be curbed by state policy. Kenya is burdened by huge debt exposure as a result of unchecked borrowing that has not been spent productively. When we had Eurobond issues, government could not properly account for funds by identifying particular development projects funded by borrowing. This is reckless, irresponsible. You cannot just say you borrowed money for general budgetary support. Treasury has failed to manage the economy. Kenya has hit its highest level of borrowing, so high the IMF and World Bank have warned the government to stop unchecked loans. We were told that in five years we'd have 10,000km tarmacked roads. I'm yet to see them. I see road-patching done countrywide for political reasons. You cannot start a 10km road in the middle of nowhere, then jump elsewhere to start another 10km. It's not economically productive. We deserved a clear master plan and programme to develop roads by linking the most productive ones. If it were Lake Victoria ring roads, we'd know exactly how they would be developed, the funding source and completion date. Devolution is not fully supported because so little funding is released, as if we are being prescribed droplets of medicine. We hear of electricity connections. In truth, there's no electricity in schools in the countryside and many constituencies. There are poles and wires but no power due to lack of transformers. Uhuru says all public schools are connected but in my Suba South constituency, it's only 50 per cent. And I connected them long ago when I partnered with the Rural Electrification Authority through CDF. In five years we have not seen increased water supply. Jubilee boasts of improved healthcare,especially free maternity, yet doctors and nurses were on strike for over six months — that never happened before. The health sector is sick, like most others.