As Kenyans were enjoying their festivities across the country on Christmas Eve, a strange disease hit Tigania West constituency. Nobody knew what the disease was, but the symptoms were the same: diarrhoea, vomiting, lack of appetite and non-stop abdominal pains. The Meru government was quick to rule out an outbreak of cholera, even as hundreds of villagers were admitted to hospitals. Six people have succumbed to the illness, and 180 others have been admitted to hospital. What’s more, weeks after the disease broke out, more people are reporting the symptoms. Doctors at the neighbouring Isiolo Level Five Hospital have confirmed the disease to be cholera after one patient’s results tested positive. Mainda Mathina, 95, from Lairang’i village, was the first to die, while his son, Kirigo Mugambi, 65, and wife Dorcas Mununu, 47, were admitted to an Isiolo hospital with cholera-like symptoms. They were vomiting, having abdominal pains and diarrhoea. Days later, Benard Kaibung’a and Angelina Maitei, 63, died at the Meru Teaching and Referral Hospital. On January 5, Kaliuta M'Mwongo, 80, and two other villagers died under similar circumstances, bringing the death toll to six.  FAMILY HARD-HIT Resident Ann Gacheri, 31, bore the brunt of the outbreak. She lost her 65-year-old mother-in-law, Angelina Maitei, as well as two neighbours, and has an ailing husband and two children. Gacheri, wife to Benson Kaberia, was treated at Davelight Clinic in Ruiri. Her two children, aged 13 and 15, are still sick, but she cannot afford to take them to hospital. Just before Christmas, her mother in-law Maitei started to complain of stomach pains and diarrhoea. The following day, they took her for treatment at the home of a local nurse. Maitei had started vomiting and persistent diarrhoea when Gacheri prepared an oral rehydration salt drink for her. After drinking it she felt better, but relapsed the day after Boxing Day. She was taken to Meru Level Five Hospital, where she was admitted and immediately put on a rehydration drip, but she died a day later. Gacheri’s husband Kaberia was also taken to hospital on the same day, while her sister-in-law was also admitted at Muthara Subdistrict Hospital. The next day, casual labourer Benard Kaibung’a, a father of five, died under similar circumstances at Meru Level Five Hospital. The villagers were only given aqua guard and chlorine tablets by Heath officials and told to use them to treat drinking water. In the neighbouring county, Tharaka Nithi, a similar outbreak occurred days later. Health officials were quick to alert the public of cholera moved with speed to contain it.  CALL FOR ACTION In Meru, residents want the county and national health officers to act swiftly to contain the outbreak. They have called for door-to-door vaccination in affected areas. They blamed the problem on lack of clean water and said it should have been prevented. “We have lost so many people and we are afraid we may lose more if they government does not act,” Charles Muchena from Lairang’i village said. Muchena said they rely mostly on a drying river known locally as Blue Nile. He said some people do activities such as washing clothes upstream without caring what is going on down stream. Lairang’i sublocation manager Norman Mbaabu said the disease came as a shocker in the festive season. He said most families cannot access clean water for drinking and domestic use as they only rely on the polluted 'Blue Nile'. He said there are very few boreholes, leaving residents vulnerable to infections.  COUNTY IN DENIAL Health executive Eunice Kobia, however, said the disease was amoebic dysentery, also known as amoebiasis. She blamed this for the diarrhoea cases in Tigania West and Imenti North constituencies. She said the patients were complaining of abdominal pains and were vomiting and diarrhoeaing. “The cases first reported were from Mukindu village. They were treated and discharged at Charia Cottolengo Mission Hospital. Later on, we had a similar symptoms from patients in Lairangi and Mweronkanga villages,” she said. Kobia said most patients were treated at MTRH, but two succumbed to the illness. Currently, 60 patients from Mweronkanga have been treated and discharged. Ten are still admitted at Isiolo Hospital, while 36 patients from Mukindu have been treated. In Lairang’i, 46 people were affected and 40 from Kiburini, totaling 182. She said the disease is waterborne and the area has been experiencing water shortage. Acting Health chief officer Victoria Kanana visited Lairang’i on December 27 last year after the outbreak. She urged residents to treat water with chlorine before they drink it. Kanana said they had dispatched the Beyond Zero Mobile Clinic to help in treating the disease, which she termed a big problem. Public Health director Ephantus Kariuki also ruled out cholera. He said their laboratory report showed the victims suffered from ameobiasis — a bacterial infection transmitted through contaminated food or water. Kariuki said most victims are adults aged 30-70.  SHORT-CHANGED? Residents were not satisfied and questioned why patients taken to Isiolo Hospital were recovering while those taken to Meru Level Five hospital were getting worse and most died. On January 12, one of six tests in Isiolo returned a positive result for cholera. The tests originated from Kandebene, Tigania West. This contradicted claims there was no cholera in the county. Isiolo deputy Public Health officer Guracha Salite said the other five results turned out to negative, but said having one case identified positive means there was an outbreak of the disease in Meru county, which could soon spread to Isiolo county. He said all those tested and treated with cholera-like symptoms were from Kandebene, which is 10km from the Isiolo boundary. Salite said residents of affected places should not travel from their areas because the county government will visit them at their homes to ensure they are treated. The Meru government has banned food hawking amid an outbreak they are yet to confirm as cholera. On January 3, Kenya Red Cross donated 87 cartons of antibiotics, antiseptics and oral rehydration therapy to fight diarrhoea. This is after three people succumbed to dysentery, while 21 others were admitted in Lairang’I last week. Central region Red Cross coordinator Gitonga Mugambi also gave out water-treatment chemicals.