Africa faces a
gigantic population increase. In 2050 the continent’s population will reach 2.5
billion compared to 1 billion in the year 2000. It is also a very young population: 40 per cent under 15 years of age and 60
per cent under 25. Even if the population growth slows, which can be seen in
some parts, the demographic transition has a time lag, so it won’t stop the
population reaching 2.5 billion.  So Africa
needs to create 18 million jobs every year. Urbanisation is rapid, though more
than half of the population is still living in rural areas. Where will we
all find a job, a better life, an income, a future? Even food is hard to get in
many places. Despite the
recent hype of ‘Africa rising’ and comparatively high growth rates, economic development
does not match the population increase. There are simply not enough jobs for
the young.  Of a working
population of 24 million, one in every six young Kenyans is unemployed. Yet in
Tanzania and Uganda, the figure is about one in 20. Kenya’s youth
unemployment has remained constantly high for more than 20 years.  Does the rest
of the world care? In November the European Union held a summit in Abidjan with 80 African
leaders, where the main theme was 'Investing in job creation for youth'.
EU’s President Jean-Claude Juncker emphasised that the European Union is still Africa’s main partner, despite
the increasing role of China.  The immediate
reason for the summit and what preoccupied European leaders was how to stop
young Africans going to Europe. Though most migration takes place inside Africa,
there are now nine million Africans living in Europe, mainly from the Sahel
and the Horn of Africa. Since the migrant crisis of 2015, German Chancellor Angela
Merkel has spoken about a “Marshall Plan” for Africa, envisaging what the USA
did for Europe after World War II.  But the wider
issue of what can be done in Africa to stem the flow is obscured by who is
responsible for the perceived crisis. But where will there be jobs for young
Africans? And how many? How is Africa
going to handle the challenges, with or without outside assistance, so young people
don’t leave? What sound policies can be put in place, which political
priorities could make a difference and what developmental transformation could
create the jobs needed? Infrastructure,
manufacturing, technology and the internet come first to mind when one thinks
about future work for young people — not farming and agriculture. In Kenya farmers
are generally over 60 and are mainly commercial farmers, because small-scale farmers
and subsistence farming are hardly counted. The traditional ways of producing
food do not look sexy and are often shunned by young people.  Yet, new
technologies are also opening up opportunities for agriculture, slower urbanisation.
This will create new ways to produce, market and consume foods and in the end
jobs, an income. So can agriculture provide job opportunities for youth?  Remember: Africa
cannot feed its own population, yet 60 per cent of the workforce is in
agriculture. The food import bill is currently a staggering $36 billion
per year and is projected to rise to $110 billion by 2025. Africa is importing
what it should be producing, which is not helping poverty reduction within
Africa and is creating jobs in other continents.  African
leaders must encourage young people and give them real incentives and means to
see a future in agriculture. Agriculture and rural development can create many
more job opportunities than manufacturing and can initiate processes that can
bring prosperity to whole countries. This will pave the way for the kind of industrial
and urban modernity long admired in Africa. Finally there
is a historic lesson to be learned here:  Successful economic transformation in countries other than city-states (eg Singapore,
Hong Kong) builds on broad-based improvements in rural productivity – a
proposition uncontested in development
theory since its formulation in 1961. Countries break through into transformative development by acquiring
technological capabilities that generate “increasing returns”, which means
building a manufacturing base – beginning with the main resource to hand, which
is a trainable labour force. Africa has a
huge “trainable labour force”—the youth. Without prioritising agriculture and
rural development, the youth will continue to leave for a much harder life in
Europe or a somewhat miserable informal job in the cities. Africa can do much
better!   Anders Östman is a retired Swedish official living in Karen