Kenyans are optimistic that the start of 2018 will be a better year as opposed to 2017, a poll done by Tifa Research shows. In a poll conducted on December 12 to 16 last year, chief executive Maggie Ireri said Kenyans are, however, hoping there will be less political rhetoric after the electioneering period last year.  She added that Kenyans interviewed during the poll want a conducive environment to engage in economic and personal projects. Related content : Without talks Raila and I will be sworn in, Kalonzo tells Uhuru “Kenyans are also hoping politicians will give them a break for the next five years to allow the country focus on economic development that will spur job creation,” she said.  Ireri said the goodwill and hope for the country was expressed by both Jubilee and Nasa supporters.  Of the 1,005 respondents interviewed, more than 75 per cent of Jubilee supporters feel 2018 will be better than 2017, while more than 50 per cent of NASA supporters are of a similar opinion.  The country has been engaged in campaigns and elections from the August 8 general election, which led to the cancellation of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election after a successful petition by Nasa presidential candidate Raila Odinga.  This led to the October 26 fresh presidential election where President Uhuru won after Raila pulled out a few days to the poll. The two leaders have been urged to dialogue to end the political stalemate, a move that is yet to be taken up by either of their camps. Ireri further said Kenyans hope education will improve in the new year.  Some 70 per cent and 69 per cent of Kenyans expect primary, secondary and higher education, respectively, to improve. Also read : NASA MPs mull impeaching Matiang'i over 'shocking' KCSE failures “These high expectations are recorded against the backdrop of a number of reforms in education.” With Kenyans seeking to push for better lives, a third ( 32 per cent) of the total sample intends to set up a new business, whilst 24 per cent hope to get a new job to help them achieve their goals. After doctors and nurses resumed work after an extended strike in 2017, some 67 per cent of Kenyans feel Public Health will improve in 2018. Click here for the latest political news  