A confrontation broke out at the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company after police sealed off the offices and locked out the Water executive. The officers, who arrived at the offices at 5am, said they were implementing a court order reinstating former MD Daniel Ng’ang’a. He was sent on compulsory leave last month. Supporters of the county government confronted the police and demanded they let Water executive Paul Macharia into the office. When pressed, the police failed to produce the court order. Later Ng’ang’a’s lawyer Anthony Kibathi arrived and explained that  they had filed a case at the High Court and the judge was to issue a ruling. Deputy county commissioner Kepha Marube could not explain why the police had no court order, only saying they had information there would be confrontations. Ng’ang’a was given the leave after Justice Hatari Waweru issued a ruling allowing the county government to take over water services through a 13-member caretaker committee. Macharia accused Ng’ang’a of being uncooperative and sent him on leave to allow for investigations into allegations the company was being mismanaged. Ng’ang’a, who was received by song and dance by staff, said he was legally in office and dismissed the compulsory leave order as illegal. He said he can only be sacked by the board, which employed him. Ng’ang’a also sent bulk text messages to the company’s clients, saying it will be using all its three bank accounts at Equity, Cooperative and Family banks. An earlier communication by the company indicated payments would be made through Family Bank. At the offices yesterday, Macharia and Ng'ang'a argued in front of shocked staff members. Macharia accused Ng’ang’a of being after documents that incriminate him and board chairman Peter Munga in illegal deals. He said the documents are in a safe place. He also accused Ng’ang’a of colluding with Munga, who is Equity Bank chairman, to deny the new MD access to the three bank accounts the company holds at the bank. Macharia accused Ng’ang’a and Munga of running the company like a family business. “The head of procurement Naomi Nungari is Ng’ang’a’s cousin. Her husband Francis Macharia is in charge of the Kiawambeu water plant,” he said. “Meter reading supervisor Rose Kahara and water bowser operator David Kahara are Munga’s step siblings, and that is how he has managed to have the company supply him free water to his chain of schools until now.” A report seen by the Star indicates that about 11 staff members are related to either Ng’ang’a or Munga. But Ng’ang’a said all employments were merit based and denied having relatives in the company. 