President
Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet choices are not bad. It is up to the team in the
Cabinet to honour and not disappoint the President. Kenyans and the President
just want them to perform and deliver. The President wants them to deliver his
legacy. The
question is whether they all share President Uhuru’s vision and agenda. And if
they share the President’s vision, do they have his stamina, to deliver on his
second and final term? Some
people were expected in the Cabinet when Uhuru named it at State House. The
appointment was not surprising for many of them. But I don’t know who Deputy
President William Ruto’s appointees are. There was no distinction that these
are Ruto’s people and these are Uhuru’s people. They are all serving the President
in the final term. Remember it is his second term. Read: List of Uhuru's Cabinet nominees We
don’t expect Uhuru and Ruto to fight in this government like the coalition government
during the Nusu-mkate government. These are two different scenarios. They are
totally different.  The former President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister
Raila Odinga’s relationship was imposed from outside. It was an emergency
situation following the post-election violence. The scenario between Uhuru and
Ruto is a mutual understanding. They came together with a common goal. They all
agreed on how they will go about it.  They agreed that Uhuru is President
for 10 years and Ruto is to be president for another 10 years. This is a 20-year
plan. And
that is what they are working on. There is no acrimony between the two - Uhuru
and Ruto. There is no difference. All of the appointees in the new Cabinet must
understand what Uhuru’s vision is. Internalize it and then be able to fulfill
it. If each or any of the officers in the Cabinet is not in sync with the
President’s desire for the Big Four, then that person should not be in the new
Cabinet. Kenya
should expect a lot of work in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s second term. The
entire country is talking about Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. It
does not matter if you hate him or like him, but you will accept that he is
working. We all know that all other CSs might also want to be like Matiang’i. And
again, we know some have delivered much, but they are not noisy. The
expectations of Kenyans and the President are high. The writer is a lecturer
at USIU Click here for the latest political news 