Education stakeholders in Migori have asked politicians to stop inciting parents to storm schools on the pretext of pushing for better performance. They said the wave of invasions reported in the county have taken a political twist hence defeating the reasons behind the protests. On Friday, angry parents led by MCA Joseph Hoyo invaded Gukipimo primary school in Makerero ward accusing the head teacher Lorna Gwoma of closing the school. The mob invaded the school at around midday when pupils were out for lunch claiming the institution has been closed since schools opened on Tuesday. "We have reports that on Tuesday pupils were told to go home and
never report here until next Wednesday, we demand to know what is
happened," Hoyo said. Waving twigs and placards, the locals
demanded that teachers from the ward whose schools failed in last years’
KCPE be transferred from the school. Gwoma refuted the claims saying the school re-opened on Tuesday and teaching have been going on smoothly. "The tension is caused by local leaders who demand tenders in schools," she said. She said her life has been in danger as similar attacks have been
targeted on teachers from different community from majority Kuria in the
area. Sorore secondary, Nyametaburo Mixed, Nyasese and Sirori Simba primary schools are among those that have been raided by parents after KCSE and KCPE exams were released. KUPPET executive secretary Samwel Jasolo described the act as
'primitive' and asked politicians stop interfering with management of
schools. "These attacks on schools are caused by politicians who
have financial interests in schools. They should keep off inciting
locals," Jasolo said. He said they will write
to the region's TSC boss Lukalo Beatrice to "speedily transfer all
teachers from the affected schools to let politicians teach children".  Robert Onkoba, Kuria West education officer, said the government was working to ensure peace resume in the affected schools. "That is a small matter which we will streamline," Onkoba said. On December 26, angry Kaler ward residents led by their MCA Thomas Akungo stormed Kanga Onditi Mixed secondary school in Nyatike sub-county. They demanded the transfer principal Peter Odundo and five other teachers blaming them for the poor performance witnessed in last year national examinations. The school managed a mean score of 3.35 in last year's KCSE. Click
here for the latest political news   