Former Kilifi North MP and Kilifi governor loser Gideon Mung’aro is a politician with the skin of an elephant.  In 2015, Mung’aro suffered double political setbacks: He was unceremoniously removed as ODM Minority whip in the National Assembly and subsequently kicked out as chair of the Coast Parliamentary Group, an amorphous association of Coast elected MPs. Frustrated, Mung’aro ganged up with some Mijikenda ODM MPs and rebelled aginst ODM. Later, the rebels, among them MPs Zainab Chidzuga (Kwale), Mustafa Iddi (Kilifi South) and Peter shehe (Ganze) joined Jubilee. They accused ODM of high handedness, and that the Coast people and their MPs had been excluded from party nominations and committee leadership positions in Parliament — the same complaints the current MPs have raised against ODM leadership. His departure from ODM left him a partially wounded politician. He had joined the wrong party in a pro-ODM region. Yet, just as Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya in 2016, his departure from the party was a choice out of absolute necessity. But in a region that votes for political parties rather than personalities, all the ODM rebels lost their elective positions in the August 8 General Election. Despite losing to ODM’s Amason Kingi, Munga’ro has steadfastly remained in Jubilee. He recently urged he asked coastal communities to support Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. His unbowed support for Jubilee has seen him ridiculed and taunted. Some of his political opponents have branded him a “beach boy”, with reference to his long service in the hotel industry in the Coast. Despite this sarcasm, Mung’aro is credited for boosting tourism in Malindi and across the Coast, when he served as chair of the Coast Tourism Board and later the mayor of Malindi. It is in these capacities that he rubbed shoulders and made acquaintances with personalities such as President Uhuru Kenyatta, who was then Chairman of the Kenya Tourism Board. His level of education has also been taunted, although he now holds a degree from a local universities.  But it is the matter of the exclusion of Coast politicians by the ODM leadership that has vindicated Mung’aro. He was ostensibly sacked as the Minority whip because of incompetence and being a mole for the JP. However, informed sources say he was sacked for questioning party decisions on the Coast and available positions within and outside the party. His removal from these positions was also a calculated move by some Coast ODM politicians to discredit his political credentials, and to bring down his rising political star as the potential Coast Kingmaker.  In some ways, Mung’aro has contributed to his political downfall. In 2016 he gathered like-minded Coast leaders at his Dabaso home, where it was declared that the Coast region should form a homegrown political party. The meeting culminated in the Dabaso Declaration, the premise of which was to form a viable party that would seek to partner with other like-minded parties in the country in the pursuit of a coalition government. It was to mark the rebirth of Coast politics. Unfortunately, Mung’aro abandoned the idea to the dismay of supporters and coastal communities as a whole. Instead, he pulled his people to join Jubilee.  Suddenly, Mung’aro’s political star dipped. In the process, he has had to withstand accusations of political insubordination and incompetence and of being a political sell-out. But with time and support, he may as well have the last laugh in transforming party politics in 2022. He, however, has serious flaws in his political strategies and organisation. He does not have the right caliber of personnel to see him through the rough waters of Coast opposition politics. His advisers and friends still believe in the old populist street politics to win an election. His choice of advisers has partly contributed to his political loss and downfall.  The Kenyan experience is that elections are not necessarily won by sheer numbers or populism: They are manipulated and stolen. Mung’aro is popular and he has the numbers, not the votes. Being the Jubilee candidate they imagined he would win through some kind of organised machine. They were mistaken.  Nevertheless, he maybe down but not out. His shortcomings cannot render him politically obsolete in Coast politics. He is still by far the most popular Mijikenda politician in the region and the strongest Jubilee voice. If the Jubilee is to make any tangible headway, especially with 2022 succession politics, Mung’aro is the politician to consider. This is why, in part, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto should consider Mung’aro for a Cabinet post. I do not know Mung’aro much. However, I have observed his career achievements before and after he joined politics.  As a CS, Mung’aro can make a difference in JP politics in the Coast. He is the only available counterweight to the ODM wave in this region. He is charismatic, accessible to the people, generous to the hilt, helpful to the underprivileged class and self-less.  And whether he gets the appointment or not, his political star is on the shining side. He only needs to rethink the Dabaso Declaration.