National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has defended the MPs' demand for more allowances. Muturi said there is nothing unique in the legislators asking for more money as whatever they are currently earning is not enough. In December, the MPs pushed for lucrative car grants, a deal said to cost the taxpayer about Sh 2.1billion. Read: SRC temporarily barred from slashing MPs' salaries Muturi on Thursday said the MPs are pushing to review their salaries upwards to the initial Sh610,000 and not what the Salaries and Remuneration Commission recommended. "We refer to have the old system of MPs salaries at Sh610,000 and not SRC's Sh532,000. There is nothing unique in this demand and I don't get why it is exciting Kenyans so much." He said though the matter is sub judice and they don't want to be seen as exerting undue pressure to influence the judiciary, the legislators will be okay with the decision that will be made by the courts. The speaker dismissed claims that the MPs are also pushing for a Sh 2billion mortgage. "A mortgage is just like a loan and you apply for a loan that you can repay. With the salaries and allowances the MPs are currently earning, they cannot manage to take such loans," he said. Muturi said the loans are so strenuous on the MPs that majority prefer to source for cash elsewhere than take loans. "The SRC had set loan limit at Sh35million for members of the judiciary, executive and Parliament. One is expected to pay the same loan within four and half years. With such salaries, many cannot repay," he said. He said those who have tried have been left with no option but to be subjected to live under hand-to-mouth circumstances. SRC, in July last year, announced salary cuts for state officers, including the President, Deputy President, MPs, CSs and other officials. The commission had said about Sh 8billon would be saved. According to the review, the President was to earn Sh1,443,750 monthly down from Sh1.6 million while Deputy President would be paid Sh1,227,188 monthly. Cabinet Secretaries would get a salary of Sh924,000 from Sh1,056 000 and Permanent Secretaries would be earning Sh765,000 from Sh874,000. MPs were to earn Sh621,000 from about Sh710,000. Read: SRC slashes President and Governor salaries, abolishes MPs sitting, mileage allowance Click here for the latest political news