DP William Ruto has asked Kenyans to ignore Tuesday's planned swearing-in ceremony of NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. He said Kenyans already elected a President and it is now time for citizens and leaders to work together and move the country forward. "We have had one year deciding who will be Member of Parliament, who will be President and so on. It’s now time to serve Kenyans." Also read: Don't provoke Raila by stopping Tuesday oath, Atwoli tells Uhuru Ruto spoke at Redeemed Gospel Church in Buru Buru, Nairobi, where he attended the Sunday service. Other leaders who attended the service asked security agencies to take stern action against anyone involved in the planned oath taking exercise. They said the Constitution is very clear on how to elect and install a leader. The leaders said the purported swearing-in was a ploy by Nasa leaders to cause chaos and sabotage the economy. "The people of Nairobi are peace loving. We know there are some leaders who want to export violence to the city to disturb our unity and destroy our business," Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said. He said police should not allow any violence to be visited to the city. Taita Taveta governor Granton Samboja and Redeemed Gospel church Archbishop Arthur Gitonga said elections were over and Kenya did not want to witness chaos or bloodshed but harmony and development. Samboja said he did not support activities that were meant to disrupt the country’s peace even though he was elected under the NASA banner. "I support President Kenyatta who was elected by Kenyans. We don’t want to see chaos and violence as some people seem to advocate." "It is important for us as elected leaders to preach peace in the country. We will not achieve our development goals through demonstrations," Samboja said. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa, Benjamin Mwangi (Embakasi Central) and Charles Jaguar Kanyi (Starehe) said the Constitution was clear on how Kenyans arrive at getting a President. They said issues of electoral justice were determined and settled by the Supreme Court. They asked the police to be alert as the planned swearing-in was meant to disturb peace and harmony in the country. "We know those who want shortcuts to power have attempted a coup before. Now they want to cause chaos to sabotage the government’s development plan," Ichungwa said. Bishop Gitonga prayed for peaceful coexistence and respect of the law. Ruto affirmed that the Jubilee administration will serve all Kenyans equally irrespective of their political affiliation. He said the government's agenda is to transform the lives of Kenyans through food security, youth employment, medical insurance and affordable housing for all. The DP said the Nairobi housing project will be implemented in accordance with the wishes of Nairobi residents He assured the residents that no demolitions will be done to give room for the project. Sonko asked Nairobi leaders to shun political side shows and work together to solve the city's problems. He cited the insecurity in the city and the standoff between hawkers and Boda Boda and the County Government of Nairobi as some of the pressing issues that need the cooperation of all leaders in finding lasting solutions. "The problems you see in Nairobi need us to work together as leaders of Nairobi so that we can find solutions." The Nairobi Governor said hawkers will be relocated from Nairobi Central Business to alternative markets. Read: Uhuru Park a no-go zone for NASA, Koome says ahead of Raila oath Click here for the latest political news 