What began as a small issue between two students — a fight over a cup and a slap — escalated into a full-blown battle between Muslim and Christian students at Jamhuri High School. More than 35 students were injured and four were hospitalised with stab wounds on Tuesday, reporters at the scene and ambulance attendants said. The school with 1,500 students was closed until Monday to allow tempers to cool and administrators and police to investigate. Calm was restored by regional coordinator Bernard Leparmarai and police commander Japheth Koome. There appear to be deeper issues. Muslim students accused principal Fred Awuor of discrimination. “He is dividing us. Christians are favoured. Lessons run until 4.30pm so we cannot pray. He has brought guards to take charge of the mosque. We are denied lunch and breakfast,” one student said. Muslim and Christian students use separate libraries and toilets. SLAPPED BY PREFECT? There are more Christians than Muslims but the breakdown was not immediately available. Awuor declined to comment on claims of discrimination.“A disciplinary committee deals with such issues,” he told the Star. He said the problem started on Tuesday evening when two students fought outside the compound. Tension escalated yesterday. “What we know is 10 students were injured and all have been discharged. We need time for thorough investigations,” BOM chairperson Lonah Mumelo said. Students told the Star the problem started on Tuesday when a Form Two Muslim day scholar was slapped by a Form Four Christian prefect for using a cup belonging to boarding students. The boy was removed fromthe queue, prompting Muslim students to defend him. That boy also said he was attacked by five students near Pangani on his way home, including by the one he had quarrelled with over the cup. REVENGE MISSION Yesterday morning, Christian students were surprised Muslim students spent a long time in the mosque and didn’t talk to them. “When they came out of the mosque, they attacked Form Ones.When the  principal intervened, they roughed him up,” a student said. “All hell broke loose. They attacked us with machetes, blunt objects and rungus.” It is believed the weapons were smuggled in by day scholars. Christian students threw stones and destroyed property, witnesses said.