For the Tyranny of Numbers to efficiently work in the 2013 election, both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto had an almost absolute command of their voting blocs of Central Kenya and the Rift Valley respectively. With the oiled PR, the two tribal kingpins had an almost smooth sailing to State House. But approaching 2022, Ruto may not be guaranteed of the combined support the duo got in 2013. The Moi Family, just like the Kenyatta Family, cannot be ignored in the 2022 power matrix. Senator Gideon Moi remains a thorn in the flesh of the DP. Unlike Isaac Rutto, Gideon has the financial muscle and considerable power to be a threat to the Mt Kenya vote. The senior Moi made Uhuru, and in the just concluded elections, Uhuru would turn to Moi when a crisis arose.  Watching the rise of Gideon from a seemingly spoilt son, who could not even speak in his mother tongue fluently to a key Tugen kingpin, one cannot fail to notice the upward projectile his political life has taken. This movement has all the markings of his father’s influence. It is, therefore, conclusive to say the decision will be on the ballot, and wooing Central Kenya will be top of his agenda. As was the case 2013, when Othaya residents went against Mwai Kibaki’s wishes and voted for Mary Wambui as their MP instead of Gichuki Mugambi, Uhuru might as well not successfully influence all the Kikuyus to vote for his DP. Politically, the Kikuyus were always divided along regional lines, with Kiambu supporting Kanu and Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Murang’a supported the then opposition. This might play out again in 2022, with one region supporting the DP while the rest will throw their weight behind Gideon. One of the generals will not have delivered as expected.  And while to some 2007 remains just a memory, there is a significant number of victims who have never gotten closure. To them, being on the same side with Ruto in 2013 was convenient to take “muthamaki” to State House. It ended at that. There are also talk that they do not owe anyone any debt. 2022 might be the year when they finally decide to have their payback.  The situation is further exacerbated by the 2017 Jubilee nominations, where Ruto was seen to influence the outcome is Central Kenya. There is a feeling residents were shortchanged by having their strong leaders replaced with people seen as weak, both politically and intellectually. The ousted leaders have the financial muscle, and with the electorate in the area already regretting the choices they made, Ruto’s opponent will have an easier time convincing them.  Finally, settling for a deputy from the region will have the entire country against Jubilee.   Wachira is a communication strategist