President Uhuru Kenyatta has hinted that he may hold talks with Nasa leader Raila Odinga once he jets back to the country from South Africa. President Uhuru said he will participate in a dialogue between various political parties to bring strong bonds among the citizens. "We want to see political parties start to work together and partner in policy making as such partnerships will play a key role in reconnecting with people hence establishing stronger bonds," Uhuru said. Read: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila He was addressing members of the press after holding talks with his South Africa Counterpart Jacob Zuma. This comes as the NASA coalition continue to mount pressure on Uhuru led Jubilee party to hold talks to end the current political impasse. NASA co-Principal Moses Wetangula on Thursday said the current political problems cannot be exclusively solved by NASA or Jubilee. "I want to encourage my brother Uhuru and Ruto to climb from their pedal and allow a public conversation that will see the country move ahead. This country does not only belong to the two of you but 45 million Kenyans," Wetangula said. The coalition, however, maintains that if UhuRuto are not ready for the dialogue, they will proceed with swearing in of their party leader Raila Odinga and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka as the president of people's assembly. Uhuru left the country on Thursday morning for talks on trade, security and infrastructure development with Zuma. He is also expected to attend Zuma's birthday celebrations to be held on Saturday. The two heads of state will review progress in the implementation of signed agreements. They will also explore new areas of partnership with the goal of deepening ties. Uhuru's official visit to South Africa will also focus on enhancing cooperation in training. Kenya and South Africa have concluded more than 16 instruments of cooperation, agreements, MoUs and letters of intent on training. The University of Pretoria and the Kenya Wildlife Service entered into an MOU on October 16, 2013. The MoU provides for capacity building for KWS staff in the Rhinoceros DNA Index system. The system involves DNA profiling, collection, classification and storage of information relating to the population of rhinos, a project based at the Veterinary Genetics Laboratory of the University of Pretoria. The nations also cooperate in scientific exchange, agriculture, public health, law, education and military training. Read:Uhuru in SA for trade, security talks with Zuma     Click here for the latest political news           