Yvonne Wamalwa, widow of one-time Vice President Kijana Wamalwa, has been eulogised as a passionate, committed and outstanding woman. Yvonne died yesterday in Nanyuki after a long illness. She was living with her sister in Ichuga village. President Uhuru Kenyatta said Yvonne served the country with dedication and commitment. “The passing of Yvonne has robbed us of a selfless leader who was a role model in her community and in the nation. Hers was servant leadership,” he said. “As an ambassador, it was always about the interests of Kenya. She served with the distinction the country needed.” The sister, Stephanie Muite, said. “I’ve been living with her since October last year. She has been receiving medication at Outspan Hospital in Nyeri town.” Read: Kijana Wamalwa's widow Yvonne dies in Nanyuki She spoke at the Nanyuki police station, where she had gone to seek escort to transfer the body to the Lee Funeral Home in Nairobi. DP William Ruto said Yvonne served her country with passion, commitment and dedication during her stint at the Foreign Affairs ministry, United Nations and later as Kenya’s diplomat to Australia. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said Kenya has lost a patriot, a mother and a role model. “Yvonne did not allow her widowhood to define her. Instead, it gave her the drive and passion to serve, affording her immense growth in her newfound career,” he said. “She will be greatly missed by her family, colleagues, friends and the international community. May God rest her soul in eternal peace and grant comfort to her family during this trying moment.” Foreign affairs CS Amina Mohamed said Yvonne was a consummate diplomat, an expert negotiator, and a well-spoken and passionate patriot. Until her death, Yvonne was the deputy director in the Foreign Affairs ministry’s Asia and Australasia Directorate. She wedded Wamalwa in 2003. She was the second born in a family of four — three girls and a boy. Yvonne attended City Primary School, Nairobi, and Cardinal Otunga Girls’ High School, Bungoma. She proceeded to Kenya Polytechnic and then to West London College, where she studied Hotel Management and Tourism and graduated in 1994. Related: Sh36.4m haunts Wamalwa widow Click here for the latest political news