Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Thursday got a reprieve after the High court overturned NGOs Board decision to freeze his foundation’s bank account. Justice Roseline Aburili said the Board, through its executive director Fazul Mahamed acted outside its core mandate when it ordered the freeze of all accounts belonging to Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation over money laundering claims. Read: Kalonzo secures orders stopping NGO board from freezing Musyoka Foundation accounts Although the judge said the court cannot block relevant authorities from probing the organization, she barred the board from interfering with the organisation's day to day operations. "An order is hereby issued prohibiting the respondents from freezing the firm’s accounts, deregistering the Foundation or infringing on the rights of the applicants employees," the judge further ruled. The Board had accused the charitable trust of failing to account for a total of Sh146 million and failing to explain how it had spent a further Sh50 million it received from China. On May 2, 2017, Fazul directed Central Bank of Kenya to preserve the firm’s accounts pending further instructions. The Foundation also faced allegations of operating secret accounts, both local and foreign, contrary to provisions of NGOs Coordination Act. However, Kalonzo went to court protesting at the move which he said was unlawful and meant to frustrate his political career. The Wiper leader said the directive affected his firm’s philanthropic activities. In the judgement, Aburili observed that the board gave the Foundation a certificate of compliance three weeks before the decision was made "I find an explanation by the board that the clearance letter had been issued awaiting verification as dishonest and an afterthought." Also read: Kalonzo Musyoka Foundation seeks to unfreeze bank accounts The judge said the foundation had a legitimate expectation to continue carrying out its business when the certificate was issued. Aburili also faulted the NGO Board of failing to accord the organisation a fair hearing saying the firm ought to have been given at least 14 days to defend its operations. She was of the view that, if the NGO Board was suspicious of illegal transactions being carried out by the Foundation, it should have sought a court order first. The judge said failure to accord the organisation a chance to defend itself was in breach of rules of natural justice.  Click here for the latest political news