NASA principal Moses Wetang'ula has made a 'friendly request' for his colleague Musalia Mudavadi to support his 2022 presidency bid. Wetang'ula, who is Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader, noted he has all it takes to become president. "I am an elder brother to Musalia. In our community, the elder brother is circumcised first, therefore I am urging him to let me face the knife before he does," he said at Milimani in Kitale county, during the homecoming of Nominated MCA Margaret Wanjala (Ford Kenya). He attended the function alongside Trans Nzoia Senator Henry Ndiema, area MP Chris Wamalwa and several MCAs. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula represent the Luhya nation. Their co-principals Raila Odinga (ODM) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) raced for State House on August 8 but boycotted the October 26 general election. Wetang'ula said they were putting in place strategies to ensure they register more than six million voters in Trans Nzoia and other western counties by 2022. He refuted claims of bad blood between the Bukusu and Maragoli sub-tribes following the December 26 incident where water CS Eugene Wamalwa was ejected from the Maragoli cultural festival. The Senator said: "Eugene was ejected from the festival, not because he was a Bukusu, but because he was carrying Jubilee's oduor, which the people of Vihiga rejected in August elections." More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos Read: What did you gain? Moses Kuria asks Mudavadi after CS Wamalwa drama  Regarding the paln to swear-in Raila and Kalonzo, Wetang'ula said there is no turning back. "Our plan to swear-in Raila is ready. He will take oath of office on January 30 because Jubilee has refused dialogue." Also read: NASA's radical plan for Raila's swearing-in The Ford Kenya boss faulted Jubilee Party for "putting in place a system to ensure most form four candidates fail KCSE exams". He noted those who failed cannot join any institutions of higher learning. President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration is currently implementing its free secondary education programme but there have been complaints, parents saying they are still giving schools large amounts of money. Click here for the latest political stories  