I
can say that almost 99 per cent of the accidents in this country that happened
in the month of December were because of human error and could have been
avoided. We blame the accidents on speeding, carelessness and not having
discipline on the road. One,
you can see some accidents are happening in the morning. There should be a ban
that from 12pm until 5am – there should be no movement of public transport on
our roads. Not what the NTSA announced yesterday after the Migaa accident.
The National Transport and Safety Authority is overwhelmed. The NTSA is
struggling to be a policy arm and also an implementation arm. You can see the
numbers. Even if you had hundreds of roadblocks, you can’t be everywhere in the
country. The NTSA need to have a good relationship with the Traffic officers. The
NTSA should go back to its primary mandate of coming up with policies to manage
the matatu sector. That is why you see the police are always attached to
the NTSA. I
have been in the transport sector for a long time and I can tell you that
the country is sick of corrupt practices.  That
is the main challenge facing the country and causing havoc. It is the same
corruption that has made everything go wrong on our roads. Today every Tom,
Dick and Harriet will use whatever available vessel - be it a lorry, a van,
pickup - at his/her disposal to do public transport and cash in on the
festive madness. The
competition that is there is about those who have complied and those who
haven’t complied. They are all operating on our roads. You can imagine doing a
business legitimately and competing with illegality. The person competing against
you is illegally in the business.  It actually shows a lot of
lawlessness in the provision of the service in the matatu and bus industry.
Today Traffic policemen on our roads are just collecting money. The laws are
there and the problem is that they are not being used. Unfortunately, the same
laws have become a tool for police officers to extort money from transport
operators. The Traffic police are not enforcing laws but are collecting funds
to enrich themselves.  But
I remind Kenyans that it is high time they became responsible. Everyone must
know his or her role when using the roads.  The Writer is the Chairman of the Matatu Owners’ Association        