Kwale residents yesterday took to the streets to protest against water shortage. The protesters, who marched from Kombani to the Kwale Water and Sewarage Company offices, demanded explanation on the shortage that had lasted three months. Waa/N'gombeni MCA Mwinyi Mwasera, who is also the chairman of the county assembly's water committee, led the demonstrations. They gave KWSC three days to restore water in their taps. "We are tired of excuses. We want the county to find a long-term solution to water shortage," Mwasera said. Ali Said accused the company of fake promises. "Last week, they said we would get water in a few days. It is like they are playing games with our rights to clean water," Said said. Water executive Hemed Mwabudzo told the residents to expect water in their taps today, saying the county had already settled outstanding electricity debts. "We have paid the Kenya Power debt that caused the disconnection of electricity. Power was restored yesterday and pumping of water has already begun," Mwabudzo said. when we came and inquired we were told that that before end of last week we will have water flowing in our taps, why are they playing games yet its our right to get clean water?" He posed. Fatuma Masito a nominated MCA also added that residents are still receiving monthly bills yet they have not had water for the last three months and therefore the company is not being fair to them. Reacting to their grievances, county executive for water Hemed Mwabudzo said that they have already settled the power bill and assured residents that water will be restored. Mwabudzo said last year's long rains destroyed the main pipeline at river Marere which had to be renovated and resulted to the accumulation of power bills. "Kenya power wanted a zero balance and because most of the revenue the firm collected went to maintenance of the infrastructure, they were faced by the challenge of bulky bills," he said. He added that the county government has also chipped in and paid Sh10.5 m to Kenya power and another amount of Sh15 m to coast water for supplying water.