Nairobi county has formed a team of investigators to probe the Kijiji slum fire that left six people dead and more than 6,000 homeless. The team comprising of land officials and detectives is seeking to unearth the cause of the fire amid claims of land grabbing. There are claims the fire was started by arsonists in a bid to force residents out so the land is acquired. Residents said they had received several notices issued by unknown people. But governor Mike Sonko has assured people who lost their homes that they will be resettled on the same land. Nairobi's security and compliance executive Tito Kilonzi said they will enforce Sonko's directive to resettle the victims on the contested land. "I have not received a brief from the investigators so claims that the land has been grabbed are neither here nor there. The governor has assured families that the land belongs to them and that they will be resettled there," Kilonzi said on Tuesday. "We are investigating to find out whether it was an act of arson or a misadventure." But National Land Commission chairman Mohamed Swazuri said he has not been involved in investigations on the fire. Meanwhile, victims of the fire in Lang'ata are being resettled. The county and national governments are setting up temporary shelters Ngei Primary School where humanitarian support is also being offered. Deputy president William Ruto said Sh70 million will be set aside to resettle the people. Sonko said the county will pay all funeral expenses and ensure those who died are accorded proper send-offs. He also promised to support affected families. The governor noted firefighters had difficulties accessing burning areas due to narrow roads. "We reckon it was difficult for firefighters to put off the inferno due to lack of access roads," he said when he visited the victims on Monday. The governor announced that the department of land, urban renewal and housing will ensure all informal settlements in Nairobi are surveyed and mapped to allow infrastructure development. The rebuilding of structures will follow. Following the fire, Sonko interdicted Brian Kisali, who is in charge of fire and rescue services. Kisali received a notice signed by acting county secretary Leboo ole Morintant on Monday. "You were not aware that a fire broke out and your team lacked direction and coordination, resulting in deaths and loss of property due to mismanagement," he was told, and asked to show why he should not be punished over the fire. More on this: Sonko suspends Nairobi official after four die in Lang'ata fire Click here for the latest political news