Calvin  Coolidge , the 30th US President, in an address to the society of American Newspaper Editors  on January 17 1925,
 said, "After all,  the chief business of the American people is
business. They are profoundly concerned with producing, buying, selling,
investing and prospering in the world. I am strongly of the opinion
that the great majority of people will always find these the moving
impulse of our life”. This philosophy has
shepherded and continues to guide American foreign policy. With its new
found military power, after the Second World War, America designed world
institutions to strengthen its grip on the world.  This started with the
formation of the United Nations.  The Americans, with the support of
four other nuclear powers France, Britain, Russia and China, craftily
designed the two main decision making organs of the United Nations — the
General Assembly and the Security Council.  The General Assembly is made
up of all the member states and is tasked with policy decisions.  Most
of the decisions and deliberations made in the assembly are not binding
and are of little consequence. The Security
Council is where decisions regarding maintenance of international peace
and order are made. This council is the most powerful institution of the UN.   It has a membership of 15 nations. The western
powers schemed that it will have two types of membership, permanent and
non permanent. The permanent members are the five nuclear powers of the
world and they have veto powers. The other10 members are nominated to the council by regional
blocs on rotational basis. Veto powers have been used by
these members to pursue and address strategic and political motives of
the permanent members. Veto from any member can halt possible action the council may take for the benefit of the world. One country’s
objection rather than the opinion of the majority can cripple
the enforcement of the UN Security Council resolutions. The
Security Council has thus become the only relevant institution of the
United Nations. However, its relevance is only serving the geopolitical
interest of the nuclear club of five above the interest of the world.
It’s an unfair and inequitable institution that enables a powerful and
authoritative minority to determine the fate of an indispensable and
subjugated majority. The Americans also head the World Bank and
conveniently ceded leadership of IMF to the Europeans.  With
the control of the UN Security Council and world financial
institutions, the US set in pace  a boundless crusade to pursue
geopolitical interests  giving justice, liberty and human rights a wide
berth. The ideology espoused by Coolidge and strengthened by neo-conservative hawks such as Richard
Perle, Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, was recently given a shot in the
arm by a memo prepared by Brian Hook, an adviser of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. The memo’s theme was
how to emphasise human rights, democracy promotion and liberal values in
American foreign policy. The memo provides a vision, that the US should use human rights as a weapon against its adversaries Iran,
China and North Korea, while giving a pass to repressive allies such as the
Philippines, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. It states, “Allies should be
treated differently and better than adversaries.  Otherwise, we end up
with more adversaries and fewer allies”. The
world is replete with examples of how the blind pursuit of power and
influence by the US is wreaking havoc in nations. It went to war
in Iraq on flimsy and phony charges of weapons of mass destruction. It
  has now dismembered Iraq, a vibrant state into three territories
nearly at war with each other.  America deposed a popularly elected President Mohamed Morsi in Egypt and installed the country’s military
chief Abdel el Sisi as the head of state. President Barack Obama and Hillary
Clinton, aided by France, obliterated Libya, which had an economy, a
welfare system and healthcare that was the envy of both the Europeans
and the Americans. Libya is now a slave market for Africans. But
two recent cases point out America’s warped and twisted view of justice
and human rights. First is the recent unilateral declaration by President Donald Trump that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel.  President
Trump’s declaration was purely based on pursuit of personal interest and
campaign pledges. On being elected to office, he appointed Jared Kushner,
his son-in-law, as senior adviser and envoy on Palestine-Israel
conflict.   Unknown to many, Kushner is the director  of an organisation
that raises funds to finance illegal settlements in the occupied land of
Palestine.  It is also alleged that Kushner has been actively lobbying
the Russians through Michael Flynn, the then National Security Adviser ,
to help quash UN resolutions condemning the illegal settlements.
President Trump campaign also received substantial funding from hardline American Jewish promoters of Israel. One of the chief financers of
the campaign was Sheldon Adelson, a casino billionaire who has given
vast sum of money to the Trump campaign and the organisers of the
Republican Convention.  Trump thus erased age-old treaties, conventions and resolutions at the altar of political
expediency. America has vetoed over 40 Security Council resolutions
critical of Israel expansionist schemes. These vetoes against Palestine
are more than the total number of vetoes cast by all the other Security
Council members. America, being a friend and defender of Israel in the
Security Council, will veto any pertinent legislation against Israel. 
Palestine has no such power in the Security Council and hence, as long as
the UN remains with its current hegemonic structures, Palestine has no
hope of ever being a state recognised by the Security Council Closer
home, the US is cognizant of same basic facts about Kenyan’s electoral
history. Close to 1,500 Kenyans lost their lives in the PEV of 2007 due
to a botched election.  Were it not for the Supreme Court and the memory
of the aftermath of the PEV, Kenyans will have gone to war in 2013.  We
are currently mired in political gridlock that is tearing apart the
fabric and the economy of the nation. It’s thus clear that the
country has structural, systemic and deep seated electoral deficiencies
that need to be remedied if the country has to remain true to the ideals
of justice, equity and equality expressed in our National Anthem and
constitution. However the US through Ambassador Robert Godec and the Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Donald Yamamoto have usurped the sovereign will of the people
of the Kenya.  They have become the cheerleaders for the "accept and move on brigade".  As long as Kenya is registering a modicum of economic
growth, has a semblance of peace and American corporation are
repatriating profits made in Kenya to their home land, then the US won’t
give a hoot as to whether there  is electoral justice in Kenya or not. That
is why Kenyans must stand up against western powers’ pursuit of partisan
interest in Kenya and the world.  It’s time to stand up for electoral
justice in Kenya and a free and independent Palestine state.  