Human rights activist Ken Wafula died yesterday at St Luke’s Hospital in Eldoret. He was 45. He was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday, suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes. The father of three developed breathing problems. Wafula is survived by his widow Miriam, who is eight months’ pregnant, and by three children. He was the director of Centre for Human Rights and Democracy and was extensively involved in the ICC cases following the post-election violence of 2007-08. Wafula helped in witness protection. He ran unsuccessfully for Trans Nzoia Senate as an independent in the General Election. The activist was born into a humble family and at one time he lived on the streets of Eldoret. “It was on the streets that I witnessed a lot of injustices,” he once said. “That led me to partner with friends and set up the Centre for Rights and Democracy.”  loving and courageous His widow described him as loving and courageous. “Despite his many cases, Wafula was a loving husband and father. He protected us and it’s sad he has left us,” she said. CHRD programmes officer Kipkorir Ngetich said Wafula worked until last Saturday. On Sunday he felt unwell. “On Tuesday, he was taken to the hospital and doctors said his blood pressure was very high,” Ngetich told the Star.  witness protection Wafula was involved in many causes and was known for his dedication.He was accused of coaching Wafula denied coaching ICC witnesses to testify against DP William Ruto and journalist Joshua Sang. “Some came to my organisation seeking protection. We helped them. We had nothing personal against anyone,” Wafula said. He was involved in the search for the body of kidnapped and murdered ICC witness Meshack Yebei. Yebei was reportedly abducted at his home in Eldoret where he had gone to visit his family. He was expected to testify in the case. Wafula had a long history of human rights activism in Eldoret. Before the polls he tried unsuccessfully to remove Ford Kenya boss Moses Wetang’ula from the top position, saying he was ineffective. He was preparing to sue counties for skewed hiring. Wafula was also a crusader against FGM in the Kerio Valley.