William Ruto and Gideon Moi are increasingly in the news these days — not because the former is the Deputy President or that the latter is the Baringo senator but because of their quest to vie for President in 2022. If they both stand, it means the duo will split the Rift Valley bloc votes, leaving them to actively search for support and votes from other regions. The first region of choice for should be the Mt Kenya region, which is known for voting for one of their own in Presidential elections. In the absence of a preferred local presidential candidate, Mt Kenya voters will have to vote for either Ruto or Gideon, two individuals who have directly or indirectly contributed to the retention of the Presidency to the Kikuyu nation. The people of Central Kenya owe Ruto credit for bravely forging a rather unpopular political partnership with Uhuru Kenyatta, which delivered the 2013 and 2017 wins. Despite sporadic opposition to the Ruto Presidential bid in Central Kenya, some voices support him. It should be payback time for the Deputy President in 2022. On the other side of the political wall is Gideon, the son of Kenya’s longest-serving President, Daniel Moi. In separate ways, the people of Mt Kenya also owe to the former President some sort of political acumen that enabled Uhuru rise from political oblivion to the pinnacle of national power. The unpopular “Uhuru Project” Presidential push in 2002 is a case in point. It must be a difficult choice for them and Kenyans as a whole between two individuals, who are products of different social backgrounds. Ruto, the “hustler,” is self-made. In political terms, he is a commoner — an outsider in Kenya’s political establishment. In American politics, Ruto would be the Donald Trump of today or the Jimmy Carter of the 1980s — men who beat the establishment to run Washington, DC. Gideon is the product of establishment politics. With Uhuru, they share certain social statuses: Their fathers have ruled this country. And they are both familiar with State House. In other words, they are in a class of their own. Kenya’s electoral history since Independence has favoured establishment politicians, people who are later, willingly or unwillingly, fronted to campaign for the highest office and won. In this classification, I see Gideon being the preferred candidate in Central, if not the rest of the country. The Coast region is a different equation. This is a region that has never fielded a Presidential candidate since the Independence election of 1963, when Ronald Ngala, their favourite politician, run against Kanu’s Jomo Kenyatta and lost. Dr Chibule wa Tsuma, former MP of the larger Kaloleni constituency, and the late Sociology Professor Katama Mukangi, made unsuccessful bids for the Presidency in the 1980s through 1990s but they made no strides in part due to the lack of grassroots, regional and national support. It is still unclear, as of now, if the Coast will field a Presidential candidate in 2022. The absence of a viable Presidential contestant has rendered the Coast a tabula rasa. As a swing region, both Ruto and Gideon have a chance to make a mark. The main obstacle remains Raila Odinga, if he chooses to run. Even though the Coast is increasingly fatigued with Raila, he is still the strongest contender: His political roots run deep. Gideon is the candidate to answer tough questions from Coast voters. In the politics of like father, like son, he will have to answer to his father’s 24-year-rule that saw the collapse of local industries such as the Cashew nut factory and the Mariakani Milk Scheme in Kilifi, and the Bixa Factory in Kwale. Also important is the role of Kanu in marginalising the Coast and in historical injustices. At the moment, Ruto has the upper hand. He is familiar with Coast politics and has been a familiar figure in the region before and after becoming the DP. He is popular in counties such as Kilifi and Kwale, where he has significant following. Ruto was popular as URP leader, the party he dissolved to form Jubilee. It was a step that disillusioned many of his supporters in the Coast. He is equally popular with women leaders and groups, which he has generously supported financially and materially. His wife, Rachel’s Joyful Women Organization women table banking is still popular among women in this region. The major obstacle to Ruto’s bid in the Coast is the Jubilee Party, which coastal communities have rejected. In the end, Ruto has two options —abandon Jubilee, which is unthinkable, and opt for another party or support the formation or the strengthening of an existing coastal party that should campaign independently with an eye to joining the Ruto team in a post-election coalition. Coast communities vote for parties, not personalities.          