A lobby group has petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta for investigations into an intricate web of trade in illicit alcoholic drinks. Futa Magendo Action Network (FMAN) wants the government to stop rackets involved in ethanol smuggling and use of fake Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) stamps to evade tax. FMAN told Uhuru that unscrupulous traders are importing illicit ethanol through the Kenya-Tanzania border, putting millions of Kenyans at risk. “Your excellency, it is impressive that you been in the forefront in the fight against illicit brews and we can work together to ensure everyone follows the law, pays taxes and respects the lives of Kenyans," executive director James Mugo told reporters at Harambee House in Nairobi on Wednesday. "Kenya’s alcohol industry has been a target for fake manufacturers ready to maximise profits without ensuring the consumers' health." The network presented its petition to Interior cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and KRA commissioner General John Njiraini. Others served include National Intelligence Service director General Wachira Kameru and National Authority for the Campaign Against Drugs and Alcohol Abuse (Nacada). The documents reads in part: "The importation of illegal ethanol comes with the affixation of fake revenue stamps printed in and outside the country. The fake stamps are required by the illegal manufacturers since they have not paid any taxes on the products. "The stamps are uniquely similar to the untrained eye but are confirmed using an electronic reader." The lobby group recommended that KRA introduce the use of electronic bar code scanners to determine the authenticity of stamps and ensure integrity of the taxman’s surveillance team to curb the vice. They also want distributors and traders found selling products from unlicensed manufacturers to be held accountable and banned from the industry. "The fake products have become attractive to greedy traders who buy them at low prices and sell at a premium, therefore making profits of big margins. The greedy traders buy the original products and mix them with fake products in the hope of making bigger profits." The petitioners want counties, through the Council of Governors, to ensure compliance by all traders of alcoholic beverages. They also want labels on alcoholic drinks to specify the contact details of the manufactures, including their physical locations, telephone numbers and email addresses. Click here for the latest political news