The Coast People Assembly on Sunday resolved to push for the swearing-in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka on January 30. This was the second convention in the region in just under two months - the first was held in Kilifi. The resolution read at Uhuru Gardens also affirmed the August 8 ballot results will be the basis of Raila’s oath-taking. Read: [AUDIO] Raila escalates oath plan, says will run government from exile Seven resolutions were listed in the event attended by the NASA principals led by Raila and Kalonzo. It was decreed that Coast residents will continue to participate in People’s Assembly activities until democracy is restored. Raila said Kenya is under the authoritarian rule because President Uhuru Kenyatta is employing police at will. The region has failed to recognize Uhuru’s leadership after devoting to the Assembly. “Those in power have been opposed to the 2010 constitution that’s why they see no crime in violating it,” Raila said. “Kenya will reject the dictatorship. The journey to Canaan is on.” Raila said conventions will be held in Suswa, Migori, and Kisii before the national assembly in Nairobi on January 30. The Wiper party leader said Kenyans can’t bear another term under Uhuru.“Punda amechoka (the donkey is tired). I’m also weary and Raila too, is seriously tired. Don’t be fearful this country is ours,” he said.Kalonzo said Kenya is speedily headed to a conflict and the presidency has refused to acknowledge this. Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo left the country without meeting Uhuru when he shuttled into Nairobi to broker a deal with NASA leader Raila Odinga. Read: You give Kenya hope and we love you, KOT tell Raila as he turns 73 Related: Take oath of office, supporters tired of waiting, Khaniri tells Raila Jubilee leaders said there is no crisis to warrant his meeting with the President. But Kalonzo said, “Kenya is in conflict… Jubilee doesn’t care.” David Ndii said Raila’s oath-taking is not a means to get a coalition government. He said such a government is not beneficial to the people and NASA will seek to form its own legit state. "Electoral justice is very crucial. A valid and lawful August 8 vote was disallowed," he said. Koitamet ole Kina, a member of NASA’s assumption of office committee said Kenyans did not vest their sovereignty to Uhuru. Related: Work with me to change Kenya into Canaan, Raila tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news