Kenya’s biggest retail pharmacist is expected to grow even bigger after the World Bank, through the International Finance Corporation pumped in more than Sh300 million. Goodlife Pharmacy Limited said it will now expand to more than 100 stores in the next four years across East Africa to create the largest retail pharmacy chain in the region. The finacing was announced yesterday by the IFC, a member of World Bank Group and the world’s largest multilateral investor in the private health and education sectors in emerging markets. This is the corporation’s second investment in the pharmacy. A 2015 IFC loan of Sh450 million accelerated the company’s growth from a small enterprise with four stores, to become the region’s largest pharmaceutical retail chain. The company, co-founded by Josh Ruxin in Nairobi in 2013, said it now employs more than 200 people and intends to ultimately reach nearly four million consumers. In November 2016, the pharmacy was acquired by LeapFrog Investments, who have emphasised expansion. Oumar Seydi, IFC director for Sub Saharan Africa, said: “Goodlife’s expansion is an important step towards consolidating Kenya’s retail pharmaceutical industry, and ensuring that consumers have access to high-quality, reliable products.” The company said most of the new stores will serve customers earning less than Sh1,000 a day in lower-income areas which are typically served by informal, and at times unregulated drug stores. “IFC’s investment will help strengthen our leadership position in the Kenyan retail pharmaceutical market, allow us to create more skilled job opportunities, and bring quality drugs and medicines to multiple countries in East Africa,” Goodlife CEO Amaan Khalfan said. The East African retail pharmacy sector is highly fragmented, with more than 12,000 independent retailers and medicine sellers in Kenya alone. Felix Olale, partner and global head of healthcare for LeapFrog Investments, said the additional financing positions Goodlife to continue its rapid growth across East Africa and on course to become the largest Pan-East African pharmacy chain.