DNA evidence is being used to prosecute rhino poachers for the first time. A unique database in South Africa has been used to catch and imprison criminals who kill the animals for their valuable horn. The system has so far played a role in the prosecution, conviction, and sentencing of nine people. One case, involving DNA taken from three horns and tissues from two carcasses, led to a sentence of 29 years. The database, called the Rhino DNA Index System (RhODIS), has already been used in more than 5,800 forensic cases. The system has successfully made links between recovered horns, blood-stained evidence items, and specific rhinoceros carcasses in more than 120 cases. "RhODIS provides individual matches that, similar to human DNA profiling, is used as direct evidence in criminal court cases,' said Dr Harper, Director of the Veterinary Genetics Laboratory at the University of Pretoria.  Black rhinos are considered an endangered species and white rhinos are "near threatened", according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).  Rhino poaching has undergone a surge in popularity in recent years and the database is the latest tool in the fight against poachers. In South Africa, rhinoceros poaching incidents increased from 13 in 2007 to 1,215 in 2014. Rhinos are killed for their horns, which are sought after for medicinal purposes and, increasingly, as cultural status symbols.  A kilo of rhino horn is worth around £23,000 ($30,000) – making it more valuable than a kilo of gold at £19,000 ($25,000). In the last 10 years, more than 7,000 African rhinoceros have been hunted and killed illegally.  RhODIS includes a biosampling kit to link rhinoceros horns seized from poachers and traffickers in various countries directly to the specific crime scenes where rhinoceros carcasses were left behind. The scientists used DNA from 3,085 white rhinoceros and 883 black rhinoceros to determine the probability of a match between rhino DNA and a specific crime scene. The analysis in the study shows that it it possible to reliably match the unique DNA profile of an individual animal from any tissue - including horns and powders made from the horns - with a panel of 23 different genetic markers. The dataset also offers insight into rhino populations and found that white and black rhinoceros are actually three subspecies of black rhinoceros. The paper was published in Current biology.  Click here for the latest political stories