When things go wrong under leaders in government, they must take responsibility by resigning to pave way for other competent people. Ideally, when ministers responsible for certain mistakes and wrongs refuse to resign, refuse to take responsibility and be accountable, they are fired by their bosses — President or Prime Minister. The bosses, on the other hand, are fired by the people who put them into positions power through demonstrations and by calling for a fresh election. When horrible things such as deaths or corruption occur under certain leaders who refuse to resign, it shows that they are not accountable to the voters. Instead, they hold them in contempt after emasculating them into powerlessness and impotence. A system that does not force leaders to resign when things go wrong because of their negligence is a dictatorship that exists only for the service of tyrants and not the people. If the people shall be free, a system that permits such powerlessness of the people should be ousted and replaced with another, whose leaders will serve the people. While leaders have in the past been sacked for issuing statements that are unpalatable to their bosses, disagreeing with certain government policies or accusing it of perpetrating certain crimes such as assassinations, there is probably no leader who resigned because things have gone wrong under them, including corruption. Leaders have always gotten away with murder because Chapter Six of the Constitution under which they could be sued for violation of national values has been put aside. These leaders have thus been left scot-free to perpetrate corruption, hate speech or propagate negative ethnicity against members of other communities with absolute impunity. In the recent past, Transport CS James Macharia has come under severe criticism for failing to stem thousands of deaths on our roads every year. Yet not once has the CS been seen visiting a single scene of accident or heard enforcing traffic laws for which Transport minister John Michuki had become the darling of the people. As people were complaining about these endless accidents, most of which were attributed to corruption Macharia was never heard condemning, he was retained in the Cabinet as this very docket. It puzzled many. Many commenting on this have said, given thousands of road accidents that have killed and maimed hundreds of thousands, Macharia should have resigned from his job voluntarily.  If he did not resign, President Uhuru should have fired him. If he did not fire him, he should have given Macharia another docket altogether. But none of these things happened because people in power seem happy with the way things are or the people who matter want Macharia in this ministry to do things that matter more to them than people’s lives. Macharia is also protected by lack of a resignation culture when things go wrong. And he is not the only one who is guilty of refusing to resign. Most would rather be fired than resign, despite the fact that in other countries, being fired carries more shame and embarrassment than resigning. For leaders to agree to resign when they are in the wrong, national values should be restored and being fired from a public office be made more shameful.  Finally, Kenyans must build intolerance and ostracise those who commit corrupt acts, neglect their duty and refuse to resign in cases of incompetence. We must understand that our refusal to resign is a carryover from our days of dictators, who could not be moved by anybody.  Resigning is a mark of civilisation that we must accept and adopt from other countries.  In the UK, almost four ministers have now resigned for doing much less that permitting hundreds of traffic deaths.  In Sweden, a woman minister was forced to resign for driving a vehicle when drunk. To have right leaders, we must abide by international moral and ethical standards.   Koigi is a former Subukia MP and political activist        