Ambassador Ismail Wais, IGAD special envoy for South
Sudan, has refuted allegations that IGAD and
Troika are responsible for violations of cessation of hostilities in Jonglei region. He said the claims by SPLM-IO deputy military spokesperson Lam Paul Gabriel are misleading and irresponsible. In a statement to the media, Wais asked Gabriel to withdraw
the statement issued on Monday because it is "unfounded and diverts the attention of the public from the core issues
of attainment of peace and security in South Sudan". The armed opposition forces allied to former first Vice President Riek
Machar had accused the regional peace mediators and international
guarantors of indirectly backing attacks and truce breaches on their
areas in Jonglei region. "Vice President Taban Deng is touring, with the knowledge
of the Igad and Troika countries, the greater Jonglei,
causing more destruction and displacement to the civilians in
areas under the control of the SPLA-IO," Gabriel said. The IGAD special envoy held a meeting on Wednesday in Juba with the chairperson of the Ceasefire and Transitional Security Arrangements Monitoring Mechanism,
Major General Ibrahim AbdulJelill. After this meeting, Wais recalled the statements issued by the chairperson of the
Igad Council Minister, the Troika and jointly by the AU and UN, all of
which pointed to the callous violations of the Agreement on Cessation
of Hostilities, Protection of Civilians and Humanitarian Access 
signed in Addis Ababa on December 21, last year, at the High-level
Revitalisation Forum. Wais said in all of these statements,
the signatories have been called upon to desist from actions that
contravene the agreement. Ambassador Wais said CTSAMM has been closely monitoring the developments on the ground since
the coming into effect of the CoHA, and doing its assessment and
verification tasks with a view to ascertain and identify those armed
groups and military commanders responsible for the violations. "Violators
shall be identified, held accountable and will face all consequences
thereof," he  said. Click here for the latest political news