Kenyans will have to wait longer before a special team tasked to investigate top IEBC officials linked to the botched August presidential poll releases its report. NASA has vowed to initiate private prosecutions from this month.  A joint team of investigators from the EACC and CID has yet to submit the report to the Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko, three months since investigations began. Related content : Tell Kenyans truth about August 8, lobbyists tell IEBC NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya told the Star on phone Tobiko should tell Kenyans why prosecution of the cases has delayed. He said that the coalition will not let go of the cases because they are part of their electoral justice projects. “The DPP ordered investigations be done within 21 days. Those 21 days expired long time ago, demonstrating that Tobiko was engaging in public relations theatrics,” Magaya said. He told Tobiko to disclose whether the Directorate of Criminal Investigations under Ndegwa Muhoro was sabotaging his office by refusing to comply with DPP’s directives. “Our plan was that if no action is taken, we would undertake private prosecutions this year. These are cases we will pick up from this January. We already have charges, evidence and everything is lined up. We will move swiftly,” Magaya said. Beatrice Omari, a communications officer in the DPP’s office, however, told the Star Tobiko has not received any response from EACC and DCI team on a follow up letter dated October 19 requesting for the files. Muhoro and EACC deputy chief executive officer Michael Mubea neither picked calls nor responded to text messages from the Star. EACC boss Archbishop Eliud Wabukala said he was not privy to the status of the investigations and referred the Star to Mubea, who he said was in charge of the probe. Also read : Record 277 petitions filed over August 8 election, Nairobi leading Muhoro’s deputy Joseph Ashimala also referred us to his boss, saying he is not part of the team that was formed while he was out of the country. Tobiko on September 23 directed the team to “expeditiously” probe the officials within 21 days and submit the files by October 23 for further direction. The team was to probe 11 senior IEBC officials including the CEO Ezra Chiloba after the Supreme Court’s nullified the presidential election on September 1. Also to be investigated were six senior Safaricom staff and Jubilee Party chief agent Davis Chirchir among others. Click here for latest political news  