Our Constitution recognizes the principle of separation of powers where each arm of the government is considered independent of the others: Not separate. And so the term 'government' refers to one government consisting of the three arms. They all compete. But because the Executive is the first among equals, because of this special position of the Executive and because of our history, the history of what we call the Imperial Presidency, the order still plays a very influential role. And by the old order, I mean those who didn’t or have not fully internalized the new constitutional dispensation, continue to hold the view that the Executive is supreme and can play at will on the other two arms of government. In this situation, the Judiciary is given the exclusive power and jurisdiction to set out the limit of each arm of the government. And where one of those exceeds the constitutional limit, the Judiciary is empowered under the Constitution to nullify or declare any decision or policies that undermine the principles of the separation of powers. The final authority is the Judiciary’s. It is the courage of each judge, in the High Court, Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court, to act and preserve their authority under the Constitution. The Executive is determined to control the other two arms of government because of politics. We are moving far beyond the one-party Kanu era of the Imperial Presidency. And therefore there is strong resistance. As long as we have within the Executive persons who served in the old Kanu regime, there will be attempts to influence the other two arms and therefore to take us backwards. Therefore there are calls for a determined and courageous Judiciary to keep reminding them that it that cannot happen under the new Constitution. Parliament has many powers, but these powers are limited by the very nature of our constitutional democracy, which is partly based and depends on voting patterns in the National Assembly, therefore giving an advantage for the political party with the largest numbers to influence legislation. Whereas one party controls the Executive and the Legislature there is always that danger that they seek to reverse the order by conspiring to control the Judiciary. But the Constitution and Standing Orders demand all laws be subject to the Constitution. The writer is an advocate of the High Court