 Former IEBC commissioner Roselyne Akombe has been promoted to a senior role at
the United Nations, signalling a vote of confidence in her by the
global organisation. Akombe
dramatically resigned from IEBC a week to the October 26 repeat
presidential election, saying the vote could not “ meet the basic
expectations of credibility and fairness”. The
move earned her the wrath of Jubilee politicians, who accused her of colluding
with the opposition to sabotage the controversial poll. Despite the acrimony, Akombe, who initially served as political
advisor, has been promoted to become chief of policy planning and guidance. The
promotion was the clearest hint that the UN –– known for strict
vetting for highest standards of efficiency and integrity –– has
no suspicions about Akombe's rectitude. There
have been allegations that Kenya, through the permanent
mission to the UN, has been pushing for Akombe's dismissal. The
government has never rebutted the claims. Yesterday,
Salim Lone, a former director of news and media division at UN,
quoting sources within the 193 member organisation, claimed Akombe's
elevation came despite “almost violent opposition from the Kenyan
mission”. “UN
promotions are rare. This recognition by UN will give Akombe some
additional protection,” Lone, who resides in New York, said It is
understood that Akombe's new role includes preparing
conflict-prevention measures in dispute-riddled regions. She will work with governments, civil society groups and NGOs who are vital to restoring peace. “Akombe's new level is senior with significant input into
formulating overall UN strategies and policies. It is more pronounced because she is working in the political arena," Lone said. Before
her exit at the IEBC, there were allegations that a former female Jubilee MP was
sent to threaten her to stop “asking many questions” at the commission. But
Akombe did not take the threats lightly, especially after the brutal
murder of the commission's IT manager Chris Musando.  