The first group of NASA supporters has arrived ahead of Raila Odinga's prohibited oath-taking at Uhuru Park on Tuesday. Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka were to be inaugurated as leaders of the People's Republic of Kenya since the Opposition does not consider Uhuru Kenyatta a legitimate president. But NASA chief executive officer Norman Magaya said on Monday: "We are swearing-in Raila as the president of the Republic of Kenya, not the people’s president." "The first batch [of supporters] arrived in the city today morning. Others will come in during the day in a coordinated way," he said and noted there will be no change of venue. Nairobi county, however, has indefinitely closed Uhuru Park in Nairobi, for renovations, and police say they are ready to prevent any chaos. On Sunday, county police commander Japheth Koome declared the park a no-go zone. More on this: Uhuru Park closed indefinitely with days to Raila swearing-in Despite the warning, Magaya said the park remains their top choice. "Our first option is Uhuru Park, second option Uhuru Park and third option Uhuru Park...," he said during an interview on KTN. "If all options are not possible, then our last option will be Uhuru Park .. the swearing-in is a fight that we are willing to take. We have no intention of changing the venue for the ceremony." Magaya said the supporters should be seated by 8.30 am so the ceremony takes the shortest time possible. "Everyone must be seated by [this time] so we can finish by 12.30 pm. Let police not provoke citizens and cause unnecessary violence." The official further described Koome's warnings as empty threats and said they had not received a notice keeping them from the park. "You can see how Koome is literally struggling to justify why they should not allow this swearing-in to take place," he said. "We legitimately made a reservation for the park and we have not seen any notice to turn us away from using it. After tomorrow you will not see any renovation at Uhuru Park." The CEO said that in 2016, the government asked a church to conduct an event at the park yet NASA also had a function, so "there are just excuses". "There are no intentions by any other group to use Uhuru Park. All these are manufactured to create tension. "Forget the sideshows. This oath-taking ceremony is beyond repair ... it has to happen ... by close of business tomorrow they will have taken oath of office." Multiple sources in government told The Star that the state will deploy hundreds of police officers across the city to prevent NASA supporters from going into Uhuru Park and the central business district. On Sunday evening, the security chiefs were considering detaining NASA leaders in their houses even as they placed the coalition’s principals under 24-hour surveillance. The other co-principals are Musalia Mudavadi of Amani National Congress and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula who is Ford Kenya leader. Deputy president William Ruto also issued a stern warning to NASA and ordered police to act firmly on anyone who would attempt to conduct a swearing-in ceremony. Read: State to deploy hundreds of cops in city and arrest leaders to block NASA event Click here for the latest political stories