Parties in an election petition against Kitutu Chache North Jimmy Angwenyi yesterday failed to highlight their final submissions. The parties instead agreed to have the court rely on their written submissions in making its ruling, which will be delivered by Justice Hellen Omondi on February 20. The agreement came after petitioner Robert Ndemo’s lawyer Edward Begi told Justice Omondi that Angwenyi’s lead lawyer Omwanza Ombati was engaged elsewhere. Ndemo filed the petition on grounds that the August polls were not conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner. He said there were inconsistencies in Form 35A. He has listed Angwenyi, returning officer Eunice Chelagat and the IEBC as the first, second and third respondents. Daniel Achach, who represented the RO and the IEBC, urged Justice Omondi to dismiss the petition, saying the petitioner failed to prove his case beyond reasonable doubt. Meanwhile, Justice Winfridah Okwany yesterday set February 22 as the date for the ruling in a petition challenging Bomachoge Chache MP Alfah Miruka’s election. On his final submissions, Miruka urged the court to dismiss a petition challenging his election on grounds that the petitioner, Jeremiah Matoke, was on a fishing expedition. Through his lawyer Okongo Omogeni, Miruka dismissed allegations by Maatoke that the IEBC used fraudulent form 35B to declare him the winner. “My Lady there is no ground in the petition challenging the authenticity and security features in form 35B,” Omogeni submitted in his final submissions. He said that the law does not allow a petitioner to breath live to his petition by using forms file by RO and IEBC. “The petitioner is on a fishing expedition by trying to expand his petition because he realized that the same was collapsing,” He added. The petitioner through his lawyers Manacha Oonge and Justin Nyaberi, alleged that the process was not free and fair because there were two sets of results. Matoke further claims in his petition that the exercise was marred with irregularities which affected the outcome. IEBC lawyer Christine Olando told the Court that failure by agents, candidates and presiding officers to sign declaration forms will not invalidate the results. Olando said that the petition was advanced by untruthful witnesses who were simply disconnected from the petitioner. She dismissed the petitioner’s claims that the forms were not stamped saying that it was not mandatory per the law.