Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has sent a Nairobi official on compulsory leave following the Lang'ata inferno that left four people dead. Brian Kisali, who is in charge of fire and rescue services, received a notice signed by acting county secretary Leboo ole Morintant on Monday He was asked to stay away from Monday and only return when recalled. "You are instructed to prepare a handing over report to the country secretary by today," Morintat added in the letter copied to Sonko. More on this: Lang'ata fire: Death toll rises to four, MP criticises City Hall's slow response He noted Kisali did not carry out his duties and responsibilities as required of an officer of that department. "You were not aware that a fire broke out and your team lacked direction and coordination, resulting in deaths and loss of property due to mismanagement," he said. Kisali was also asked to show why he should not be punished over the fire. "Your representation, if any, should reach this office within 14 days from the date of this letter, failure of which you will be dismissed without further reference to you." Kisali is the second county official to be suspended over poor response to disasters. On September 9th, 2017, another officer Francis Munyambu was suspended over poor response at a fire in Casuarina club, Buru-Buru, that left two people dead. The county has at least thirty-eight well-equipped firefighter engines which are being serviced frequently. “Everyone should take his own cross. I have well equipped fire-fight engines which I do get report frequently. People should get serious in work.”Sonko said on Monday. The city-county disaster management has contained three fire outbreaks in three areas including Mji-Wa Huruma Runda, Multiple Hauliers along Mombasa road and Equity bank along Buru Buru. Earlier, Lang'ata MP Nixon Korir castigated City Hall following its slow response to the Kijiji slum fire. Noting fire engines ran out of water, he said the county did not take proper precautionary measures to contain the inferno. But he added: "I have been in communication with the government, specifically deputy president William Ruto. We know help is coming for those affected. We will do all we can to help them." Also read: Three dead, 6,000 homeless after Lang'ata slum fire Detectives and county officials have been tasked to investigate the Kijiji slum fire Five county officials from the disaster management unit, among them Jackton Mboya, were involved in an accident during response to the tragedy and are recuperating at a local hospital. Mboya said he had been rushing to fetch water when a speeding driver hit him. “[The driver] was speeding and he was drunk. Our car could have veered off the road and rolled several times." Ochieng’ Omolo, a local in the slum, said several cartels have been fighting over the land for more than four years. “I am sure this is a political move since we have been experiencing this for the past four years," he said The cause of the fire at the slum which is opposite Southlands estate is yet to be established. Several houses, shops, and entertainment joints were reduced to ashes in the congested neighbourhood. Click here for the latest political news