Former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo may have left the country without meeting President Uhuru Kenyatta when he shuttled into Nairobi to broker a deal with NASA leader Raila Odinga. State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu told the Star yesterday there was no request from Obasanjo to meet Uhuru. "No meeting was requested so it follows that none was granted," Esipisu said. The UN Secretary-General's emissary was expected to meet the President and Deputy President William Ruto after a session with NASA leaders. Read: Ex-Nigerian President Obasanjo arrives for Uhuru-Raila ‘dialogue’ Yesterday, the Star exclusively reported that Obasanjo had quietly jetted into the country to find a solution to the unending contest over the outcome of the 2017 General Election. NASA has refused to recognise the election of Uhuru Kenyatta as President and is insisting on swearing in Raila Odinga and his running mate, Kalonzo Musyoka, as the 'People's President' and deputy, respectively. Obasanjo was delegated by UN Secretary-General António Guterres to spearhead efforts by the international community to diffuse political
tension. He was chosen because he is believed to have the respect of both Uhuru and Raila Odinga, his close friend. On Thursday, Obasanjo left behind a chorus of Jubilee hardliners denying  there is a crisis that merits international intervention. They cautioned against the international community being "misused by the Opposition to pile pressure for
dialogue on an imaginary crisis". Nigerian High Commissioner to Kenya Sheidu Momoh confirmed Obasanjo was in the country “but not on a bilateral mission” — meaning intergovernmental affairs. “Yes, I’m aware  our former President is in the country. What I
can tell you is that he is not on bilateral duty,” Momoh told the Star. Read: I'm ready for dialogue of equals with Uhuru, says Raila Obasanjo's singular mission, according to sources, was to prevail upon Raila to drop the planned swearing-in on January 30 and instead explore accommodation with the Jubilee establishment to enable the country move forward. His mission followed three weeks of intense lobbying by US Ambassador Robert Godec, which appeared to hit a dead end. The matter was escalated to Guterres to use the UN system, which recognises Uhuru's government as legitimate. It was not clear if Obasanjo accomplished his mission as sources said the Opposition outfit had stood its ground on the swearing-in, unless there was dialogue about electoral justice on the agenda. Obasanjo met Raila
and later the NASA Summit, which outrightly rejected the proposal to drop the oath-taking. "Reducing temperatures is not in our interest because that is what we need to resolve this dispute," a NASA official said. Other sources said the Jubilee leadership has expressed willingness to dialogue on the development agenda and inclusion of the NASA leadership in fixing the economy and preaching unity. Although it's putting on an everything-is-normal show, behind-the-scenes lobbying has intensified to dissuade NASA from the January 30 ceremony. Tanzanian President John Magufuli and new ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa have been engaged in efforts to strike a deal. Obasanjo is a member of the UN Secretary-General’s High-Level Advisory Board on Mediation. Guterres
has taken an approach that allows regionally recognised
leaders to mediate disputes on their respective continents. Other
Africans on the board are President Michelle Bachelet (Chile), Nobel Peace laureate Leymah
Gbowee (Liberia), Ramtane Lamamra (Algeria), Graça Machel (Mozambique)
and Asha-Rose Migiro (Tanzania). It was decided that Obasanjo was the best placed to deal
with Kenya due to his previous interactions with Uhuru and Raila. Obasanjo
served as President of Nigeria from 1999 to 2007, and earlier as the head of the military junta that led the country from 1976 to 1979. Over his long career, Obasanjo
has been involved in numerous international mediation efforts,
including in Angola, Burundi, Mozambique, Namibia and South Africa. In 2008, he was appointed the UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on the Great Lakes region. On September 13, last year, he was named to Guterres' mediation team. Yesterday a section of Jubilee Party MPs dismissed the existence of a political stalemate to warrant intervention of the international community. The legislators said the perceived stalemate is a creation of the opposition that is pushing to "come to the government through backdoor". While appreciating that the country is divided since the General Election, Taita Taveta MP Naomi Shaban said the international community should allow Kenyans to resolve their own challenges. She said NASA should stop issuing threats to create a situation that makes it seem there are conflicts. "We have not reached a stage where the international community can come in. It is an in-house thing and Kenya has elders, religious leaders and other respectable people who can resolve any dispute," she said. "It is unfortunate NASA leaders who withdrew from the presidential race are causing the confusion," she said. "They pushed for reforms at the IEBC and fortunately they had their way. So it doesn't make sense for the opposition to point fingers at the IEBC," she added. National Assembly Justice committee chairman William Cheptumo said the much-anticipated oath-taking by Raila has no merit in the Constitution and is meant to create tensions. The Baringo North legislator, who served as an assistant minister for Justice during the 2007-13 Grand Coalition government, called on the international community not to pay "much attention to the opposition". "The country has moved on and Kenyans are now focused on development issues and how to make their lives better," he said. He asked, "Where is this crisis people are talking about? We are always traversing this country and nowhere have we seen a stalemate. The opposition is creating its own imagined crisis and wants to magnify it. We should say no to this." Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dulo asked, "Do you see any crisis? We cannot be holding dialogue every time someone is defeated in an election." "Kenyans have moved on. Uhuru is the legally elected President, Opposition has taken Parliament slots,governors are busy rolling out development projects — in short, the country has moved on," Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata said. He added, "There are no chaos and even the public mood has moved away from elections. See, the Nairobi Stock Market is buoyant." Tinderet MP Julius Melly criticised the European Parliament for unnecessary focus on Kenya "meant to paint the country as at war". Melly, chairman of Parliament's Committee on Education, Research and Technology, said the European Union Election Observation Mission head Marietje Schaake should reconsider her final report. In their Tuesday Plenary Session, the EU MPs called on Uhuru and Raila to demonstrate leadership by engaging in talks to bring the country together, saying it risked sliding into a crisis. On Thursday government spokesman Eric Kiraithe told journalists at his KICC office that the country's sovereignty is enshrined in the Constitution. “The government has also noted their calls for dialogue
between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga. We have
institutions which can lay firm foundations for democracy, the economy
and human rights." “We have honest local institutions which can give us the best way forward, not political bigots." Click here for the latest political news