NASA leader Raila Odinga has affirmed his swearing-in will go on as planned despite the governments' shut-down of TVs. He told KTN on telephone on Tuesday that he is ready to take the oath of office as the 'people's president'. The Opposition chief castigated the state for banning live coverage of events at Uhuru Park saying it shows that Kenya is sliding into a failed state. "The move shows Kenya has followed the Uganda way where the media was barred from showing the will of the people. This is unfortunate,"he said. "We have to ensure that we take the law back to the hands to the people of Kenya." More on this: State shuts KTN on Bamba TV as Raila swearing-in nears Read: Raila to be sworn-in at 1pm, give NASA way forward Raila reiterated that president Uhuru Kenyatta was not duly elected during the repeat elections. "Duly elected my foot. The October 26 vote was a sham of an election and that is what annoys Kenyans. We must have a government that has the support of the people," he said. "We have stated we are open to dialogue because whenever there is a crisis there is also an opportunity to learn. We can use this to bring the people together." More on this: Only God can save Kenya, Kalonzo says after 'many dialogue pleas' The ODM leader assured Kenyans that their activities will be conducted within the law, further challenging those who have a contrary view to go to court. Raila, who has dismissed the October 26 election, asked Kenyans to be patient and wait to see which judge will conduct the controversial ceremony. "We assure everyone else that everything will be in accordance with the law. We are a peace-loving people. Let the government not provoke Kenyans." He urged his supporters to conduct themselves with decorum adding that NASA wouldn't want a situation where people lose lives. On the law to back his oath, Raila said: "It will be announced for everyone to understand what provision we will be using. Just wait and see." 'Canaan journey still on' The NASA chief said the Uhuru Park event marks the beginning of the road to electoral justice, judiciary independence, strengthened devolution, and restructuring of the executive. "This is just the beginning of a new journey. Today remains historic just like when Kenya gained independence," he added. On the way forward for his enthusiastic supporters, Raila said: "They are on a march to Canaan. The swearing-in is the first step." "Many things will follow after a few days. The journey is real," the ODM leader added, further dismissing assertions that he is committing a civilian coup. He asked Jubilee leaders who feel that the coalition has breached the law by conducting the ceremony to go to court. "Let [Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael] Tuju and his ilk go to court if they are offended. We will show Kenyans and the world that our actions are legitimate," he said. Raila further asserted that Chief Justice David Maraga had clarified that he cannot stop any judge from conducting the oath and said the NASA team is ready to defend its actions. Read: Letter asking judges to avoid Raila swearing-in is fake - Maraga Raila said he does not have security from the government but would not be deterred from being sworn-in "since he is protected by the people". "My security was withdrawn a long time ago but we are protected by the people. If anyone wants to interfere with me, our people will be by my side." Raila added that he represents what many Kenyans feel and that the oath is not about him as an individual but about Kenyans yearning for justice. "We must have a government that inspires the people. There is hope. We are going to take actions that will bring reforms." The Opposition leader stated after being sworn-in, the people's government will unite Kenyans as well as stabilise the economy. "We have problems with teachers and their mistreatment, increased public debt, poor living standards and all this is all because Jubilee has successfully mismanaged the economy." Click here for the latest political news   