Tatu city developments have already sold 72 per cent of plots for the Kijani Ridge developmentand constructions started in most of the industries on it. Unilever occupies 70 acres, Chandaria Industries Limited will be operating on 30 acres. Others on the site include Dormans  Coffee with 10 acres,  KimFay and China’s  Tianglong cylinder and gas pipes manufacturer on seven acres. Tatu’s first residential phase includes a school. Nova Primary School already running and a university is being constructed. Over 75 per cent of the 250-acre Kijani Ridge is already out of the market with quarter acre plots going for Sh10.5 million and clients interested in the half acre plots parting with a cool Sh16 million. In its aim to achieve unpopulated green and serene environment suitable for human existence, developers are strictly instructed to use 70 per cent of their land, and reserve a portion of 30 per cent for natural green open space with trees grown for a serene and human friendly environment. “The Nova Pioneer Primary has enrolled pupils. We have plans for a secondary school for both boys and girls and university. Some 20 acres have been dedicated to that,” Rendeavour country boss Nick Langford said. Langford added that in order to evaluate industrial training and test occupational skills in construction trainees, Tatu City has established an academy which offers courses in masonry, plasterwork, electrical, plumbing, painting, tiling and carpentry and it recently graduated 25 pioneer students who are set to get job opportunities in the construction projects. Kenya Power signed a contract with the development in 2016 to supply power for uninterrupted constructions once they commence. The roof tops of all the buildings will be fitted with solar panels to compliment the available energy source. Tatu City Power Company has applied for a licenc to generate, distribute and supply electricity to the Electricity Regulatory Commission with a US-based power engineering firm it’s consultants. The 5000-acre mix-use development’s estimated residents are over 150,000 and thousands of visitors daily. Educational facilities, offices to let, light industrial and logistics central parks, medical centre, recreational facilities, cultural building, ecological corridor and urban residential development sitting on 130 acres and retail district boasting of reliable roads, water, sewerage, power and state of the art security are some of the facilities the residents will enjoy. The unique homes will retail at between Sh2 and Sh50M.