Fifty-four NASA MPs have up to Monday to sign the swearing-in affidavit or find themselves in a list of shame to be published next week. Only 100 MPs had signed the affidavit by Friday out of NASA's 154 lawmakers in both Houses of Parliament. Kakamega Senator Cleopa Malala, who is spearheading the affidavit drive, yesterday confirmed NASA will publish the list of shame of those legislators who won't have signed the affidavit by close of business on Monday. The affidavit is one of the strategies the opposition is using to have all its elected leaders support the controversial oath after reports that some leaders were not keen on the swearing-in plans. “By Monday, I will publish the list of shame and the list of honour. Those who have signed and those who have not signed,” Malala said on the phone. “So far, we have hit the 100 mark. We are waiting for this weekend to see how many more will append their signatures.” NASA principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula will also sign the affidavit to affirm their commitments to the January 30 oath. In the recent past, talks have been rife over simmering disunity among the principals regarding the oath, with claims some principals were opposed to the swearing-in. NASA has, however, denied any cracks among the principals and maintained they are all united in swearing-in of Raila and Kalonzo. In the affidavit, NASA MPs are acknowledging Raila as the “People’s President of the Republic of Kenya, having been duly elected by the people of Kenya on August 8, 2017”. NASA puts the nullified August 8 figures at 8,634,731 votes for Raila against President Uhuru Kenyatta's 7,675,162. They intend to swear Raila using the figures despite the Supreme Court annulling the August 8 election. The affidavit also dismisses the October 26 repeat presidential polls, which the opposition boycotted because they were conducted by same poll body which failed to comply with Supreme Court order on opening servers. “Had the IEBC complied with the Supreme Court orders and provided access to the servers, those results would have shown that the winner of the presidential election held on August 8, 2017 was Raila Odinga, ” the affidavit reads in part. Malala said after Monday, NASA governors will also sign the affidavit as a commitment to the opposition's push to reclaim their 'victory'.