The Transport ministry
has supported the amendment of the Traffic Act by the members of National
Assembly. On Thursday, the National Assembly Transport Committee proposed a punitive Bill against PSV saccos whose vehicles will be involved in accidents and the traffic officers
on the road on the day of the accident. Committee chairman David
Pkosing said the Bill, which seeks to amend the Traffic Act (Cap 403) will
be tabled in Parliament in the next one month. "There are two people
who we shall be held responsible whenever accidents happen – traffic officer
on the road on that particular day and the manager or the chief executive officer of the sacco under which the vehicle is registered," Pkosing said. He spoke in Mombasa during
an induction meeting at English Point Marina. The MPs
said saccos and traffic police officers are responsible for all accidents on the Kenyan roads. Last December, over 250
people lost their lives on road accidents, Pkosing said. Of the 250, about 150
lost their lives on the Eldoret- Nakuru road, along the Sachang'wan
stretch. The legislators said many
of the road crashes happen due to negligence of police officers and sacco
management who allow faulty vehicle to ply the roads. “If an accident occurs and it is because of an
omission of a traffic officer on the road on that particular day,” Pkosing said. He said the sacco CEOs and
managers have never been brought to book whenever accidents happen.
They driver of that fateful bus always takes the brunt. “If the driver also dies
in that accident, that case is forgotten. This committee is very serious that
we are going to go after the saccos' CEOs,” he said. Within the next 30 days,
the MPs will engage the executive, Ministry of Transport on this Bill and
table it in Parliament for debate and public participation. On Friday, Transport
CS James Macharia said they will work with the National Assembly
on the new amendments. “Already, we have our very own proposals that
are far-reaching in terms of making sure we address the issue of safety on
our roads,” Macharia said. However, he said they will
first make sure there is enforcement of the existing laws. “We have the laws, but they are not enforced
properly. Then for enhancement of these laws, that is where we will work with Parliament
to amend the Traffic Act to make sure it is aligned with the objectives,” the
CS said. Macharia
said together with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i
they will on Saturday issue a comprehensive statement on the enforcement of the existing
laws. “We are going to issue a
comprehensive statement indicating what needs to done to ensure and confirm enforcement
of existing laws,” he said. 