NASA co-principals are currently held up in a secret meeting at Raila Odinga's Karen home in efforts to mend ties within the coalition. Raila and his deputy Kalonzo Musyoka are said to be leading the talks. Moses Wetang'ula and Musalia Mudavadi are present. Word was that the talks were to be held at the Opposition leader's Capitol Hill office but members of the media were told the venue was changed. NASA CEO Norman Magaya said that due to the sensitivity of the matters being discussed among the principals, the meeting had to be rescheduled to give the leaders ample time. The coalition has been facing a split over appointments of its leaders parties to various parliamentary select committees. NASA mainly comprises of ODM, Wiper, Amani National Congress, and Ford-Kenya. Wiper and ANC parties have openly protested the manner in which positions were shared out in the National Assembly and the Senate. They accused ODM of strategically edging out the other partners in the coalition which was formed ahead of the August 8 general election. Last week, Wetang’ula said the issue of House leadership will top the coalition's agenda during today's meeting. Read:NASA Summit set to meet amid unease over posts, Raila oath NASA is also faced with the pertinent issue of the planned swearing in of Raila Odinga and Kalonzo as the president of the People's Assembly. A section of NASA MPs have expressed discomfort with Raila's oath plan with others saying they only recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as president. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka is among some of the key leaders who have differed with the coalition members over the plan. The MP, who was elected under NASA's Ford Kenya party, said at Parliament buildings on Tuesday last week that the president was legally in office. "Rais wa Kenya ni Uhuru. Ukiangalia kisheria aliapishwa akapewa instruments of power. Yeye ndiye president wa Kenya," he said. (Uhuru is the president of Kenya having been sworn in and given the instruments of power) Read: I recognise Uhuru as president, says NASA MP Onyonka Also read: NASA MPs disagree over House leadership ‘list Click here for latest political news