Upon taking
the oath of office President Uhuru Kenyatta
committed to building 500,000 houses in his second and last term in office. He
promised to facilitate affordable housing and home ownership programme that
would ensure working families can afford a decent home. President
Kenyatta said, “We shall facilitate policy and administrative reforms targeted
at lowering the cost of construction and improving accessibility of affordable
mortgages.” This
occasion coincided with the unveiling of Habitat for Humanity project report
aptly titled 'Building
Assets, Unlocking Access: Shelter Solutions for the Poor'. The
project, started in 2012, is well in synchrony with the 11th Sustainable
Development Goal, which seeks to have sustainable cities and communities. The
six-year project is implemented by Habitat for Humanity’s Terwilliger Center
for Innovation in Shelter. It is funded by Habitat for Humanity Canada, Habitat
for Humanity International and the Mastercard Foundation. The report
notes that housing deficit – paired with the shortage of affordable financing
for housing – is acute in sub-Saharan Africa. In Kenya, for instance, there is
a backlog of 1.85 million houses, and in Uganda the backlog is 1.3 million
units. In the
last five years, the project has provided technical assistance to institutions
in Kenya and Uganda – Kenya Women Microfinance Bank, Centenary Bank;
Opportunity Bank, Pride Microfinance Ltd, Stima Sacco and Kenya
Commercial Bank – to develop housing microfinance products targeted at
low-income households incrementally building and improving their home
conditions. The aim is to enable these people to secure adequate and affordable
housing and improve their living conditions. The
methodological approach used by Habitat’s Terwilliger Center involves a
comprehensive housing market systems assessment and market research study,
followed by the design of housing microfinance product prototypes, aligned to the
needs, preferences and capacities of both the clients and the institutions. According
to Jan Maes and Larry Reed in the 'State
of the Microcredit Summit Campaign Report, Microcredit Summit Campaign, 2012
housing is often proclaimed to be one of the “big three” priorities for
low-income households around the world, along with food and primary education. The report
observes that banks generally reject or ignore the financing of low-cost
shelter, as the perceived risks and costs outweigh benefits. This problem is
further accentuated by ambiguous property rights and legal precedents that constrain
conventional ways of financing shelter. Thus, mortgage markets in the region
remain small, providing access to only a small elite segment of the
population. “Some
staggeringly low penetration rates for mortgage markets prevail in Africa: Two
per cent of households in Angola, one per cent in Uganda, four per cent in Ethiopia,
and a mere 0.02 per cent of households in Rwanda,” according to Michael Kihato
in the 2012 study 'Scoping the Demand for
Housing Microfinance in Africa'. The Habitat
for Humanity project has scaled huge milestones. As of June 30, 2017, more than 42,000
low-income customers had accessed housing microfinance loans and more than $33
million mobilised in capital for such loans, resulting in a direct
impact on at least 210,000 individuals. The project’s
initial goal was to reach 17,000 households. The story
of Jane from Mwanza, Machakos county, Risper from Uriri and Pamela from Awendo, Migori county, best illustrates this transformation. The three women are
among the 42,000 beneficiaries who manifest how the project has helped unlock
access to low-income households. They are
now proud owners of their own low-cost houses courtesy of Nyumba Smart Loan by KWFT. A similar facility, CenteHome, by Centenary Bank has dispatched low-cost house
financing to tens of thousands beneficiaries in Uganda. In
Africa, as in other continents, a house, apart from being one of the most
important assets a family can acquire, is considered a conduit of hospitality
and a lens to social standing. It has been linked to positive changes in
health, education, safety, economic opportunities, social status, and even
one’s sense of happiness.     