Wars between Deputy President William Ruto and State House operatives are to blame for the crisis rocking City Hall. Sources say the clash between the two sides over the control of the county affairs and the multimillion-shilling tenders led to Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe’s resignation. Igathe has been in constant war with Ruto’s proxies at the county headquarters. Governor Mike Sonko is in Ruto’s camp, while Igathe was apparently the face of State House, having been seconded by state operatives to be Sonko’s running mate. resignation Igathe quit last Friday over what he called his failure to earn Sonko’s trust. The resignation is effective at the end of the month. But it is now emerging that Igathe did not intend to resign but to send a warning to the Ruto camp so his demands could be met. Read: Uhuru tells Sonko to serve city after Igathe’s surprise departure This is why the former Vivo Energy boss did not immediately resign but gave a notice of resignation. Igathe is said to be sending emissaries to Sonko and has even sent a message to the city boss, asking if they could meet face-to-face. Igathe’s allies said he complained of frustrations by acting county secretary Leboo ole Moritant — a Sonko confidant — and Finance executive Vesca Kengogo, allied to the Ruto-Sonko wing. “He complained that he had been reduced to nothing. He could not award tenders or sign for their payments. That he could not move staff and be in charge of administration as he had been promised before the elections,” the source said. Citing frustrations, Igathe reached out to county assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi and county secretary nominee Peter Kariuki on what to do. “Elachi is one of those who advised Igathe to resign. Because she, together with Kariuki, see themselves as State House people. They were brought here by State House,” the source said. allies The two advised him to give a notice of resignation to pile pressure on Sonko to reign in his allies to allow him take charge of city management. Also read: I am ready for dialogue with Igathe, says Governor Sonko But Elachi denied advising Igathe to resign. “I went to Naivasha on Wednesday, two days before Igathe resigned. He just called me on Friday to ask where I was and I told him that I was at a workshop in Naivasha. So I did not talk to him,” she said. Elachi became the second speaker of the assembly, succeeding Alex Magelo. She won the seat after President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Jubilee MCAs, who are are the majority in the house, to elect her. Kariuki was seconded by State House to be the new county secretary. He is yet to assume office. Sonko is said to be against his appointment. bending the law The county chief even tried to create the position of deputy county secretary, which does not exist in law, to checkmate Kariuki if he eventually go the job. Kariuki was vetted by the appointments committee of the county assembly in December but the MCAs went on recess before the panel chaired by Elachi could table its report on his performance in the house for approval. But the county assembly majority leader Abdi Guyo sought to downplay the matter, saying there was no urgency in approving Kariuki. “There is no crisis in this county. Go to the office of the county secretary even today and you will be served. This is a small issue,” Guyo said. Sources say Sonko is indebted to Ruto for his Jubilee Party primaries and the August 8 victories. More on this: [Speech] I'll fix Nairobi's problems, Sonko says, pledges Sh400m for wards It is said that the DP supported Sonko so he could edge out former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth in the nominations and eventually former city Governor Evans Kidero. Ruto is believed to have influenced Sonko’s victory in the primaries when he pitched camp at JP House in August to coordinate the exercise. He also bankrolled Sonko’s campaigns. DP wanted to send Kenneth to the cold because he viewed the former presidential candidate as a potential threat to his 2022 presidential ambitions. Kenneth, who opted to vie for the seat as an independent candidate, later blamed the DP for his loss. “We did not lose the Jubilee nominations because my opponent was assisted by somebody high up in the party hierarchy. Our opponent was assisted by somebody who wanted to cut me to size politically,” he said. Click here for the latest political stories