Schools will tomorrow reopen for the first term this year with a raft of changes including the new curriculum rollout and new policies guiding the distribution of textbooks. The term calendar will run for 14 weeks before schools close on April 6. Students will go for their half-term holiday between February 24 and March 4. Following the completion of the teachers training in December, the new curriculum is set to be rolled out across all primary schools for learners in Standard One. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? However, parents are still puzzled by the books they will be required to buy for their children. Speaking to the Star, Mary Moraa said she had visited bookshops in Nairobi and found those for the new curriculum unavailable. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development had reviewed and approved books for the new curriculum. Kenya Publishers’ Association Chairman, Lawrence Njagi, said they wanted more time to finalise the publishing and distribution of the books. “There are subjects for which the required number of publishers was not met. We need to readvertise and allow more people to bid, so as to meet the required number. This may take time,” Njagi said. A spot check by the Star revealed that banks and bookshops had recorded good businesses for the past two weeks as parents prepared for the reopening Kenya Secondary School Heads’ Association chairman Kahi Indimuli said teachers were ready to receive the students after the long holiday. Indimuli asked the government to ensure the capitation funds are released in good time for school operations to run smoothly. The funds will be distributed in three phases; 50 per cent for fi rst term, 30 per cent for second term and 20 per cent for the third term. Speaking to the Star, Kenya Primary School Heads Association national chairman Shem Ndolo said late release of funds greatly aff ects their operations. National Parents’ Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo asked the government to improve security in schools. “Our children are going back to school and we want the assurance that they will be safe,” Maiyo said. Under the new capitation, the government will pay Sh22,244 for every secondary school student in both day and boarding schools. This means each day school student will get an additional Sh9,374 on top of the Sh12,870 they currently receive.  The increase will ensure all day secondary fees are catered for. The government has capped maximum fees for boarding schools at Sh53,000 after the subsidy. Indimuli asked the government to ensure the capitation funds are released in good time for school operations to run smoothly. The funds will be distributed in three phases; 50 per cent for first term, 30 per cent for second term and 20 per cent for the third term. Speaking to the Star, Kenya Primary School Heads Association national chairman Shem Ndolo said late release of funds greatly affect their operations. National Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo asked the government to improve security in schools. “Our children are going back to school and we want the assurance that they will be safe,” Maiyo said. Under the new capitation, the government will pay Sh22,244 for every secondary school student in both day and boarding schools. This means each day school student will get an additional Sh9,374 on top of the Sh12,870 they currently receive. The increased will ensure all day secondary fees are catered for. The government has capped maximum fees for boarding schools at Sh53,000 after the subsidy. National and extra-county schools in Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Kisumu and Eldoret will be covered by rate. Fees for other boarding schools have been set at Sh40,545. Read: New curriculum hones intellect Click here for the latest political news  