Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati has warned of
unspecified consequences should anyone try to block NASA from holding next Tuesday’s swearing-in
ceremony. The Opposition plans to swear in co-principals Raila
Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka as the People’s President and Deputy President. The coalition has maintained they will hold the meeting at the
historic Uhuru Park Ground on January 30. However, the Nairobi countygovernment has indefinitely
closed the grounds to the public for renovations. A section of Jubilee leaders and the Nairobi
Business Community have also claimed they had booked the ground for a free
medical camp. More on this:  Refund our Sh250,000 for booking Uhuru Park, MP Nyoro tells Sonko But Arati said Uhuru Park is in his
Dagoreti North constituency and his people will ensure the ceremony takes place
smoothly. "Uhuru Park is in my constituency. Let any man try to block us. Being in my constituency, nobody will stop us," he said on Friday. The legislator said the government can deploy as many police
officers as possible at the grounds adding that this will not stop NASA from occupying the same. He said the Jubilee administration, through the
police, should be prepared to kill thousands of Kenyans if that is what they
will resort to, to stop the ceremony. "We are coming in numbers. Let them be ready. If
they are gonna kill us, they’ll kill us in a group. We will be there. Enough is
enough." He spoke in an interview with The Star  at PrideInn
Paradise Beach Resort in Mombasa. The MP also hit back at Jubilee secretary general
Raphael Tuju who had earlier said he feels sorry for NASA leaders preparing for
the event. "Sometimes you don’t want much to say but to feel
sorry and pity for those on that track," Tuju said in Mombasa on Thursday. However,
Arati said Tuju can feel sorry as much as he likes but should "prepare to feel more sorry after Raila is sworn in on Tuesday." He said things will change as from Tuesday for the
better of the country. Read: 'Resist' cap, t-shirt dealers make a killing ahead of Raila rally in Homa Bay Click here for the latest political stories 