I apologise for my absence last week. I was visiting the United Kingdom. We stayed with my school friend Alex Michaelis who is an architect. He designed Arijiju in the Borana conservancy. We visited Bob Collymore whom I can happily relate was in fine fettle. Bob has a dashboard and is very much the captain of his Safaricom ship albeit remotely. Safaricom has sprinted out of the blocks in 2018, +10.28% this January and is at a record high. Safaricom remains a ''must-have'' stock for fund managers from Nairobi to London to New York. Investors who heeded my advice to buy the stock when NASA launched its Boycott campaign, have made out like bandits. Back to United Kingdom. I enjoy coming off the airplane to be met by the blast of the cold and metallic air. Prime Minister Theresa May has confounded naysayers and proves that longevity is a quality of its own. The Pound closed Friday trading at 1.38, having visited levels well below 1.20 in the aftermath of the Brexit vote and is now within sniffing distance of levels before the vote. The Pound has returned +15.5% over 12 months. What is clear is that if another vote were held on the European issue, it would certainly produce a different outcome. Even Nigel Farage has called for another referendum. The Europeans have softened their language and even mojo-man Macron came courting in London last week. Any labour leader worth his salt would have called an about-turn and pivoted by now but Jeremy Corbyn is seemingly not for turning. I spent many years living in Putney and the high street was a big part of my life. What is clear now is that the UK high street is increasing ''like a patient etherized upon a table'' (the love song of J. Alfred Prufrock). E-commerce and home-based deliveries have changed the world from London to China. Given the ubiquity of the smartphone in Kenya, I am certain the same disruption is headed our way and that a lot of commercial real-estate will be legacy assets. The millenials with their avocado-eating and cryptocurrency trading ways are just as likely to be African as they are European or American. Carillion collapsed with £2bn of debts. The company had only £29m of cash left. Carillion was at the forefront of the public private partnership effort. What is clear now is that the Government of Kenya simply does not have the resource envelope to pursue all its ''priority'' projects on its own balance sheet. We are surely going to see a much bigger PPP effort here in Kenya. The African Development Bank, who are notorious soft-pedallers in these matters, said about Kenya: “Continued high public consumption expenditure keeps the budget deficit at close to 10 per cent of GDP, while the expected maturity of public debt could lead to debt distress.” Sure a $2b Eurobond will kick the can down the road. The Eurobond markets remain very benign for SSA Sovereign Issuers. However, we are now operating at the margins. We need to get a grip and we need to signal we are getting a grip. There is a cliff-edge and sleepwalking towards it is seriously sub-optimal. 