A Kenyan film titled ‘Watu Wote - All of Us’ has been nominated for the Oscars. The 22-minute film made it to the final list of five nominees for the Academy Awards on January 23. The 90th Oscars ceremony will take place on March 4. The movie is a tribute to more than 20 people killed by al Shabaab militants who attacked a Nairobi-bound bus in Mandera on November 22, 2014. Based on actual events, it shows a Muslim man shielding Christians during the ambush. It was directed by Katja Benrath and is told through the eyes of actress Adelyne Wairimu, who played the role of one of the Christian passengers. It also portrays Abdiwali Farrah, a teacher who was honoured for his act of courage alongside others in the bus, who refused to reveal the identities of the Christians. The film that was shot in Nairobi has won awards at more than 40 prestigious festivals around the world. During the attack, al Shabaab fighters sprayed the bus with bullets killing two people, but a passenger said he and fellow Muslims defied demands from the attackers to help identify Christians travelling with them. Abdi Mohamud, a Muslim who was among the passengers, said more than 10 militants got into the bus and ordered Muslims to split from Christians. "We even gave some non-Muslims our religious attire to wear on the bus so that they would not be identified easily. We stuck together tightly." More on this: How Muslims shielded Christians in al Shabaab terror attack Two years ago, al Shabaab gunmen attacked a Nairobi-bound bus in the same area and killed 28 non-Muslim passengers execution-style. This is the second time a Kenyan film has been nominated for the Oscars. In 2014, Lupita Nyongo became the first ever Kenyan Oscar nominee for best-supporting actress for her role in the movie 12 Years A Slave. She played Patsey, a slave girl, who was the object of her master's desire. Lupita's movie bagged a total of nine nodes, including picks for best picture, best director (Steve McQueen), best actor (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and best-supporting actor (Michael Fassbender). More on this: Lupita nominated for Oscar Click here for the latest political news 