The Treasury has given in to MPs’ demands and all 416 legislators will get Sh5 million car grants. The public has expressed resentment of what they perceive as greed of the MPs, already among the highest paid in the world. According to multiple Parliament sources, the first group of MPs to apply received the money on Thursday last week. The second group will have the money in their accounts today. The rest will get money on Friday. This is after NASA and Jubilee MPs teamed up and rejected President Uhuru Kenyatta’s plea to respect the Salaries and Remuneration Commission directive that eliminated car grants. Last year he told MPs to accept cuts in salaries and perks. “Leadership is about serving and not a business. I call upon all public servants and state officers to support SRC recommendations,” the President said. Read:I will not approve MPs' greed, Uhuru says on SRC salary cuts Also Read:MPs scheme to return high pay as Serem term expires But the legislators, through the Parliamentary Service Commission, successfully challenged the changes. Churchill Suba, head of the Civil Society Group and Coordinator, National Civil Society Congress, said it was immoral for MPs to demand money when the wage bill is soaring and the cost of commodities is up. He said the increased salaries and car grants demonstrated “unprecedented greed from MPs”.  At the end of this month, Senators and MPs will get a basic salary of Sh710,000 but could take home as much as Sh1.1 million monthly, including allowances. They are entitled to Sh5,000 sitting allowance every time they clock in for the plenary session, Sh5,000 for each committee sitting.  On December 15, Justice George Odunga suspended implementation of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission’s directive lowering MPs’ salaries and allowances.  The dash was to beat the window given by the High Court that suspended new perks until the case is heard. The case comes up for hearing on January 29.  The PSC, chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, has been pushing for the SRC to withdraw the Gazette Notice on pay and perks.  It came into effect on August 31. Click here for latest political news