Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong wants a petition against his victory dismissed. In  final written submissions by lawyer Stephen Ligunya, he said he won the August 8 General Election in a free and fair manner. Ojaamong told justice Kiarie Waweru the petition lacks merit. “In view of the foregoing, and taking into account the time spent and the volume of work involved, it is my humble submission that an order for a cap on instruction fees of Sh20 million payable by the petitioner Peter Odima should be made,” he said. “ The court is aware I was represented by Senior Counsel Otiende Amollo assisted by three lawyers. The court should issue a certificate of costs for my defence team,” Ojaamong said. Didn’t dispute results The IEBC through lawyer Chrysostom Akhaabi wants Sh10 million and the petitioner Sh7 million as costs. Ojaamong said the petitioner confirmed he had no dispute with results declared in each polling station. Therefore, there was no dispute with the results declared  by the second respondent, the county returning officer, at Busia ATC tallying centre, he said. “Whereas there may have been some irregularities or illegalities, they never affected  the outcome of the election,” Ojaamong said. The outcome represented the will of the people and the petitioner has conceded the outcome as having been truthful, accurate and authentic, thereby rendering  the petition futile, he said. The IEBC’s and the county returning officer’s lawyer Akhaabi said the third respondent was validly elected as governor in a free and fair election conducted in accordance with the Constitution. “We urge this honorable court to find that the people of Busia county exercised their sovereign will through their vote and the decision should be respected,” they said. In his submission, Odima claimed there were malpractices and falsehoods during the campaigns. Jubilee mole He said Dr Paul Otuoma, who lost in the ODM primaries, was falsely and maliciously linked to Jubilee Party. He was branded a mole. Ojaamong said there was no evidence people were barred from electing candidates of their choice. The judge deferred the judgment from February 5 to February 12. “I lost my niece and I have two petitions whose judgments I will deliver on  January 30 and January 31,” Waweru said.