The High Court has given Nicholas Biwott's family 21 days to accept or reject letters of administration over his properties. The ruling came after creditor Barnabas arap Kiprono swore an affidavit saying he is entitled to Biwott's estate shares. The former powerful minister and veteran politician died in July last year aged 77. Read: Former powerful minister Nicholas Biwott dies aged 77 Biwott left three family members - Rhoda, Hannie and Johana Biwott - as administrators of his estate. But Kiprono moved to court wanting to be named the fourth administrator of the properties. Through Kalya and Company Advocates, he said he was the deceased's creditor and one of the people entitled to a share of his estate. The Eldoret court said: "This is to direct that within 21 days [the three family members make] an appearance to be entered by either the principal registry or the Eldoret registry, and accept or refuse letters of administration of the whole estate, which by law devolves to and vests in the personal representatives of the deceased." The alternative, as stated in the dailies on Wednesday, is to show why Kiprono's request should not be granted. The court warned that should the relatives default, the court will grant letters of administration to Kiprono. Biwott lived as a wealthy man for most of his life. He was the Minister for Energy when a petroleum company he was associated with - Kobil - acquired the assets of Mobil which was leaving. By using his State House and international connections, Biwott transformed himself from a simple Keiyo South MP to a billionaire with an enviable business empire, touching almost every sector of the Kenyan economy. He owned an airline, a bank, an oil company, a construction firm and Nairobi’s Yaya Towers, among others. Considered to be one of the most ruthless politicians in the last three regimes, Biwott managed to serve in the government for 28 years and retired quietly despite scandals and controversies around him. He managed to make loyal friends as well as many enemies due to his way of leadership. More on this: How Biwott weathered controversies surrounding him Click here for the latest political news