The new education system has kicked off nationwide despite fears it was being rushed and preparations were inadequate. Education CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday affirmed that the second phase of the 2-6-3-3-3 system was being introduced across 33,000 public and private primary schools in the first term that started on Tuesday. "Our programme on the new curriculum is on course as drawn and designed," he said. "Nothing has changed and there is nothing hanging in the balance." He addressed a press conference after meeting the National Steering Committee on Curriculum Reforms at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. The meeting assessed preparedness for implementation of the new curriculum. Also read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? It is a radical change from the old system, which will be phased out. It emphasises individual competencies and genuine learning as opposed to the existing rigid, exam-based system. Matiang'i said the roll-out will be phased, starting with pupils in grades 1 and 2. The 8-4-4 system will gradually be phased out after 10 years. The last time KCSE exams will take place is in 2027. "We don’t want to rush it. We are working on it patiently," he said. The CS confirmed textbooks for the new curriculum have been developed and are already with publishers. Content was developed by Kenyan curriculum experts, teachers and the KICD. "We trained 170,000 teachers to handle the material of grades 1 and 2. We piloted some materials and developed designs," Matiang'i said. Read: New curriculum not hanging in the balance, says Matiang'i  Religious leaders input   "We are an African nation that has chosen to worship and honour God and we are conscious of that in the manner we design our content." The CS said a paper on implementation of the new curriculum will be presented to Parliament before a national conference in August. This year will be devoted to training more teachers in preparation for full-scale roll out of the curriculum up to grade 4 from next year. Treasury has released Sh29.5 billion as capitation for the free public education programme, coinciding with curriculum launch. "Money has started moving into schools. Principals who don’t see money in accounts today (Wednesday) will see their money most likely by Friday or Monday," he said. Matiang'i said the P1 teacher training will be eliminated and replaced with a new three-year Diploma course supporting the new curriculum. "We are working on curriculum introducing the skills our teachers will need as we move along, especially how to do assessment in a competence-based curriculum," Matiang’i said. KICD chairperson Sara Ruto said the second phase of the roll-out has been improved based on lessons learnt during piloting in 470 schools last year. "We have a very simple component like inquiry-based questions that teachers have been trained to do, so they train children to ask and not just tell them what to do," she said. "We are moving slowly, step by step, biting off what we can chew. It is a very exciting moment…we are very confident that this is something that we should be able to do successfully," Ruto said. Read: Pre-primary, lower primary teachers to be retrained for new curriculum Knut secretary General Wilson Sossion, who had been apprehensive — even calling the curriculum a "time bomb", welcomed the roll-out. He told the conference the union's concerns were to ensure the process was done correctly. "Our argument has always been that we should not miss any step. We must get it right," he said. "The national pilot phase will really be very exciting and the activities been lined up for this year satisfy our concerns as teachers," Sossion said. He urged teachers to study the curriculum framework and design before training. The Knut boss urged parents not to be skeptical and said he is optimistic the pilot process will be encouraging to everyone. "This process follows the laid-down professional process of review of any curriculum," he said. Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori also expressed confidence. "It is a perfectly designed approach and the reason we are not making further negative comments is because of enhanced stakeholder engagement and teacher preparedness." Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said books for the new curriculum are already in stores. "Our books are very practical in approach. What we had before was objective and question-based but these ones are competency-based. We are not asking the student, ‘Give me the answer for this’, we are asking, 'What could be the answer to this’," Njagi said. The new education system will be Kenya's third since Independence. East Africa The first was the 7-4-2-3 system introduced a year after Independence in 1963 and ran to 1985. This comprised seven years' primary education, four years of lower secondary, two years of upper secondary (Form 5-6) and three years for a basic university course. Specialist courses took longer. Uganda and Tanzania adopted the same system when the East African Community was formed in 1967. In the system, which was similar to the British, children in all three countries began elementary school at age seven and completed it at age 13. This was after sitting a regional examination, the East African Certificate of Primary Education, EACPE. Learners who passed well proceeded to secondary school, ending with the East African Certificate of Education exam, EACE. To join university, one had to attend two years of high school and sit  the East African Advanced Certificate of Education, EAACE. In 1977, the East African Community collapsed but Kenya continued the system. Exam names were changed from regional to national identity — Kenya Certificate of Education, KCE. The East African Certificate of Primary Education became the Certificate of Primary Education. The first CPE was marked by a computer system. The East African Advanced Certificate of Education became the Kenya Advanced Certificate of Education, KACE. 8-4-4 system The system was criticised for lacking the capacity and flexibility to respond to changing aspirations and labour market needs for new skills, new technologies and work attitudes. Stakeholders called for a change to system to reduce unemployment. This gave rise to the 32-year-old 8-4-4 system, which aimed to increase technical and vocational aspects. It was touted as the best replacement for the 7-4-2-3 model because it equipped pupils with employable skills, so drop-outs at all levels would either be self-employed or work in the informal sector. The 8-4-4 system comprised eight years of primary school, four years of secondary school and four of university. Major criticism followed and persisted; the system was too broad, too expensive and burdensome to pupils and parents. The cure was expected to be the newly minted 2-6-3-3-3 system. 2-6-3-3-3 system  The competency-based curriculum puts emphasis on learners’ ability to figure out how a solution is arrived at on any concept — as opposed to just knowing answers to questions. Learners will not sit exams but will be evaluated through Continuous Assessment Tests, CATs, on skills acquired throughout the learning process. CATs will account for 70 per cent of the total grade and pupils will be admitted according to their ages. The curriculum also caters for special needs children and it will integrate ICT at all levels. The system offers five years of early education — pre-primary and lower primary between ages four and six. Between ages six and nine, they will spend three years in lower primary learning Kiswahili, English, literacy, mother tongue as well as science, social studies and agricultural activities. They will then move to three years of middle school education — composed of upper primary and lower secondary school. They will learn Kiswahili, English, Mathematics, Home Science, Agriculture, Science and Technology, Creative Arts, Moral and Life Skills and Physical and Health Education. Click here for the latest political news   