Teachers and nurses in the strife-filled Elgeyo Marakwet-West Pokot border have threatened to withdraw services if runaway crime persists. Through their unions, they said they will withdraw services in at least 41 schools and five health facilities. Tension has increased after security agencies failed to recover at least 300 cattle stolen from the Pokot last Friday, when suspected Marakwet bandits invaded Chesegon, West Pokot. Five people were killed in the gunfight. Pokot bandits have refused to release the body of a 19-year-old teenager killed during the clash, exacerbating the situation. Some 660 goats and 16 sheep were also stolen. Marakwet East Knut secretary John Cheberi said teachers will not continue to risk their lives for fear of counter-attacks. He hinted that teachers may down their tools if security agencies will not fix the problem. “We are assessing the situation before advising our members accordingly,” Cheberi said. Some teachers are already seeking transfers outside of the troubled Kerio Valley. Marakwet East subcounty director of education Kimutai Chirchir said students are in session, despite the tension. Classes were momentarily disrupted during Friday's gun fight. “There are fears, but learning has resumed. Our officers are establishing the turn-up of students and teachers,” Chirchir said. Elgeyo Marakwet police commander Tom Odera said officers are working with other security agencies to recover the stolen livestock. “We only enhance security depending on the situation, and that is what we have done,” he said. At least 400 police reservists were recruited in Marakwet in 2017, but none in West Pokot. This irked Pokot leaders, who accused the state of favouring one community in the conflict. On Saturday, West Pokot leaders, headed by Governor John Lonyangapuo, gave security agencies seven days to recover the stolen cattle or they will take unspecified action. Elgeyo Marakwet KNUN secretary Benson Biwott said, “Some nurses have already fled parts of West Pokot and we don’t want the same thing to happen in Elgeyo Marakwet.” Marakwet residents said on Monday hundreds of locals spent the night in the snake-infested Kerio escarpments on Sunday night after they heard gunshots.        