The night travel ban that was imposed on PSVs will be lifted in two-weeks after thorough fleet management regulations are set. The government said on Wednesday that the ban will be lifted after stakeholders in the sector issue a comprehensive report on adherence to additional traffic rules. Transport PS Paul Maringa told the Parliamentary Committee on Transport that the lift of the ban will however be implemented progressively and selectively. "We will lift the night travel on PSVs in two weeks. This will, however, be done selectively to operators who have complied with the regulations. We should get daily reports on performance of all vehicles." He told the committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing that the ministry asked PSV operators to increase their daytime travel schedules to cover night operations. Francis Meja, who is National Transport and Safety Authority director general, told the committee that PSV owners must adhere to the regulations for them to be allowed to operate at night. "This is not a lifetime ban. Proper fleet management of all PSVs must be conducted for accountability of all drivers so as to curb road carnage," Meja said. Related: [VIDEO] Uhuru orders NTSA off roads, says traffic cops in charge Meja said his team has conducted investigations on all accidents that occurred along the Salgaa stretch and claimed many lives in December 2017. Matatu owners had asked NTSA to reconsider the night travel ban that was imposed on PSVs in the wake of rampant accidents during the festive season. MOA chairman Simon Kimutai further asked the government to review the bans imposed on vehicles involved in road accidents. The government restricted PSVs operations to between 6 am and 7 pm after the death of 36 people in a road accident at Migaa on December 31, 2017. "Most accidents involved commercial vehicles. The Ministry of Transport and NTSA should come up with a better solution other than banning night travel," Kimutai said. Buuri MP Rindikiri Mugambi blamed the chaos on roads on bad working relationships between the traffic department and NTSA. "NTSA is in conflict with the traffic department yet the two institutions are supposed to cure the same problem. I don't see the essence of having NTSA. The two institutions should be merged." Read: Review 'costly' PSV night travel ban, matatu owners tell NTSA Click here for the latest political news