DP William Ruto has criticised a section of Jubilee leaders for prematurely initiating the 2022 succession politics. He was likely reacting to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who said the Kikuyu community will back his Presidential ambition. The legislator said the Mt Kenya region will not betray the DP as he has always supported President Uhuru Kenyatta. More on this: Mt. Kenya won't betray Ruto in 2022 - Moses Kuria says Also read: Mt Kenya planning to pick Ruto’s 2022 running mate However, Nyeri MP Ngunjiri Wambugu differed with Kuria saying it was too early to discuss the 2022 succession. "Whereas I agree with MK on some things, I disagree with others. Most importantly in 2022, my vote will not depend on betrayal or paying debts; there's no such thing in politics."   But Ruto, via twitter on Sunday, said the Jubilee Party leaders should concentrate on service delivery instead of succession talks. "Kenyans, more so Jubilee, should avoid useless political debates about positions including 2022," he said. Ruto said they should focus "single-mindedly on delivering their manifesto" which was voted for by the people. The talks were escalated following the recent changes in the Cabinet, an issue the DP said was within the president's mandate. "...while allowing the President the space to perform his constitutional duty to assemble the team for us," he added. His twitter post attracted mixed reactions with others saying they will support him when the time comes. "Thank you Deputy President Ruto! I have been expecting this response from you amidst the rumours and fake news going around," @NiasehkarG said. The talks emerged following the DP's absence when the president unveiled changes in his administration on Friday. Read: There's no fallout, Duale says over Ruto's absence during Cabinet changes @Avrah16 said: "Also wondering why people are obsessed with 2022 politics after what we have just come through in 2017." "Politicians should just give this Nation a breathing space we have four more years to go." "Why were you absent at Statehouse during announcement for the cabinet naming?" @KosgeiCKiptoo2 said. @mwangi_kiwara said: "You are right sir. People's record will judge them come 2022.I'm for you." "‏Absolutely true. It's time for serving our country. It's not time for politicking your records come 2022 will judge you. Focus," @MbuiP said. Despite being in the country, Ruto was not with his boss, as per the tradition they set when they unveiled their first Cabinet in 2013, an issue that got many talking. His spokesperson David Mugonyi told the Star that the president was in charge and it was not a must for the DP to be there. Also read: Wamalwa, Kiunjuri among 13 CSs in limbo after Uhuru retains six Click here for the latest political news     