Clinical officers have started negotiations for a collective bargaining agreement that could give them higher salaries and new allowances. The talks come a month after the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers was recognised by the government. Negotiations started at the Council of Governors’ offices in Nairobi on Monday. Representatives of the union, the Treasury, Ministry of Health and CoG are involved. However, three counties have not  signed the official agreement, which recognises the union. These are Kilifi, Tana River and Makueni. At least 21 counties have fully signed it while the rest have partially signed because the relevant officials have not been appointed yet. “CoG is committed to see the process concluded as soon s possible. We hope those that have not signed will do so,” said Kuco chairman Peterson Wachira in a message to members. CoG has already written to the counties that have not fully recognised the agreement to do so immediately. “In the return to work formula signed on October 5, last year county governments agreed to sign a recognition agreement within 60 days and start negotiations for a CBA,” CoG chief executive officer Jacqueline Mogeni said in a message to the governors last week. The CBA is a major victory for the clinical officers, who until last year, had no legal union to represent them. They also complained that the government paid more attention to doctors and nurses - who are a rank below them. The clinicians went on strike for two weeks last year protesting a new structure by the Salaries and Remuneration that ranked them as unskilled and unprofessional. They were grouped with morticians and office messengers. They said this was contrary to the Clinical Officers Act signed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in June 2017. The Act classified them as skilled and professional. The officers ended their  strike on October 5 and signed a return-to-work formula when the stateagreed to review the ranking and sign a CBA. “We have agreed on the way forward and timelines have been issued,” CoG chairman Josephat Nanok said. Kenya has 20,000 clinical officers, but only 5,000 work in public hospitals. Clinical officers are mid-level workers — often described as the “backbone” of healthcare. They manage all the 4,920 dispensaries, 1,043 health centres, some of the 349 Level 4 hospitals, and nearly all outpatient services in public hospitals. Clinical officers undergo a rigorous four-year training for the diploma in Clinical Medicine programme and five years for the BSc Clinical Medicine programme compared to other health professionals.