Governor Amason Kingi will unveil Kilifi county executives on Thursday, following vetting and approval by MCAs two weeks ago. Acting county secretary Bibi Fondo said on Tuesday that the 10 will take their oaths at the Governor's office. Kingi retained Mwachitu Karisa for the water, environment, natural resources and forestry department. Rachel Musyoki will be in charge of devolution, public service and disaster management. She joined the county as CEC member in the office of the governor and public service management but was moved to the health docket in 2016. Charles Dudu will carry on as executive for lands, energy, housing
and urban development. He took over after the death of John Mazuri in 2017. Read: Kingi kicks out eight CECs, retains three in his new team Former county director for health Anisa Omar will be
sworn into the health docket. A notable inclusion is Maureen
Mwangovya, who was Kazungu Kambi's running mate in the August 8 general election. The two wanted to take over county leadership under Kadu Asili party. Kambi challenged Kingi’s re-election in court but a ruling is
yet to be made. It is not clear whether Mwangovya will back Kambi in the event
the court nullifies the election. During his inauguration, Kingi promised to unveil an all-inclusive executive committee that would include his competitors. Related: How Kingi painted Kilifi Orange and became the kingpin of the Mijikenda Pwani University don Gabriel Katana will head the education
and ICT docket. Katana decamped to Kingi’s camp in the run up to the election after the IEBC locked him out of nomination - his name appeared under two political parties. Katana wanted to succeed Kingi (ODM) on a Wiper ticket but his name was also registered under Vibrant Party of Kenya. Josphat Mwatela is awaiting inauguration to the roads, public works and transport department. Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi headed the department but resigned in 2016. Kingi defended Mwatela when he was suspended as Technical University of Mombasa cice chancellor on corruption allegations. Mombasa''s Labour court later awarded Mwatela Sh38 million, to be paid by TUM, for wrongful dismissal. He will take Sh28 million following negotiations with the university. Luciana Jumwa will be in charge of agriculture, livestock and fisheries, a docket that Kiringi
Mwachitu led in acting capacity since June last year. This was after CEC Mwalimu Menza
resigned to try his luck in politics. He vied for the Magarini parliamentary seat
but was floored by Michael Kingi, who is the Governor's younger brother. KIngi's former economic adviser Nahida Mohammed will be sworn in as the county executive committee member for trade, tourism and cooperative development. Samuel Kombe will take over the finance and economic planning docket. Current finance CEC John Kombe will move to the county assembly's Public Service Board. Click here for the latest political stories