A Jubilee honcho from Western Kenya who failed to make it to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet is a dejected man. The former lawmaker, who had high expectations of appointment, has been meeting his political advisers to map out his next steps after the snub. There are reports he is planning to rejoin NASA to resuscitate his political career. The vocal politician is said to have been lured into Jubilee from the Opposition with the promise of a ministerial position. However, his hopes ran into headwinds after his compatriots were named to the Cabinet, leaving him out in the cold. ***** Two NASA governors from Western Kenya are on the spot for giving the ongoing Opposition activities a wide berth. The wealthy county chiefs, despite having been elected on the ODM ticket, have reportedly gone slow on NASA’s anti-Jubilee push and even failed to steer their respective county assemblies to pass the People’s Assembly motions. Shockingly, during yesterday’s momentous occasion in Uhuru Park, the governors were nowhere to be seen and even refused to facilitate opposition supporters from their counties to the grand fete. One of the vocal opposition MPs was overhead warning that the coalition was contemplating taking ‘disciplinary action.’ ***** A Jubilee Party official from Nyanza caused a stir at JP’s Pangani headquarters on Monday, when he stormed the building and demanded that he be given over Sh1 million in rent arrears for his branch office. The former politician would not heed the party officials’ advice to wait for two weeks to have the money processed. He demanded to have an audience with JP Secretary General Raphael Tuju, whom he said had decided not to pick his calls. “I want to speak to Tuju, my life cannot become a nightmare because of him,” the branch official was overhead saying. ***** Were police outsmarted in their crackdown on those ferrying NASA supporters from upcountry to Nairobi for Raila Odinga’s swearing-in? Well, Corridors has learnt that a blame game has ensued within the security sector over Monday night’s clampdown. NASA operatives in Mombasa posted pictures and videos of their supporters entering three buses to Nairobi but the supporters immediately left and boarded different buses. By the time the police stopped the three buses in Voi, NASA supporters were many kilometres ahead. The security agencies could not believe it when they alighted at Nairobi’ busy River Road bus stops. ***** Just why did Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula skip Raila Odinga’s swearing in? There was speculation all over town yesterday with some suggesting that the three chickened out while others even suggested that three could have been compromised by the government. One thing that their supporters from Ukambani to Western Kenya were unanimous about was “we have lost faith in them.” Some Wiper MPs were so inundated by calls of disappointed supporters that the switched off their phones.