Chief Justice David Maraga on Friday dismissed as a misconception claims the Judiciary has been compromised by the Executive and Parliament. He said the three arms of government are independent but work together, especially the Judiciary and MPs. “When the two are seen to come together, it’s like there is a compromise somewhere. We’re required to work together, but remain independent,” Maraga said in Mombasa, after opening the induction workshop of the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. The Supreme Court came under sharp criticism from Jubilee when it nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s August 8 election victory. NASA also said the apex court was compromised after it upheld Uhuru’s October 26 rerun victory. harmonised activities Committee chairman William Cheptumo said Parliament and the Judiciary are working towards harmonising their activities without compromising their independence. “We don’t want a situation where there seems to be issues of disagreement and misunderstanding between our institutions because we serve the same people,” he said. “We want to kill the prevailing perception in our country that there is no understanding between the institutions. That the Judiciary is not in tune with Parliament and vice versa. That Parliament is not in accord with the IEBC and the IEBC is not in agreement with the Judiciary. Whom are we serving?” Read: NASA claims Raila got 8.1 million votes, met 50% plus one condition Maraga also rejected claims the Judiciary is interfering with the work of MPs. He told the committee to highlight the sources of conflicts that undermine interaction between the Judiciary and the Legislature. Judicial independence Meanwhile, Maraga dismissed a letter that circulated on social media purporting he had ordered judges not to preside over the planned swearing-in of NASA’s Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. He said judges and magistrates are free to conduct their work without external influence provided they act within the law. “The independence of the Judiciary is so sacrosanct that the Chief Justice is not given the power to direct the officers on what to do,” he said in Mombasa on Friday. The letter, purportedly signed by Maraga, warned judges and magistrates of treason charges should any of them take part in the ceremony. “Anybody saying that I have directed judges and magistrates on what to do, that has not come from me. I can assure you that has not come from me and it will never come from me,” Maraga said. He declined to comment on the planned oath. “Those are political issues. As the Judiciary, we address political issues when they are placed before us as legal issues,” he said. Click here for the latest political news