The establishment of a police post in Mavoko sub-county has been delayed by bureaucracy at the National Police Service, an official has said. Geoffrey Omoding', Athi River deputy county commissioner, reported that the office of the DIG had not approved the AP post six months after the Machakos county security committee made the request. “The office of the Deputy Inspector General of Police has not approved the AP post launched at Dramvell six months ago by Machakos county commissioner Matilda Sakwa. We are still waiting for the approval letter." Omoding' said this has made it difficult for the committee to effectively handle insecurity issues in the area that is vast and far from other police stations. The administrator, who addressed the press at his office in Athi River town on Tuesday, noted they send officers from Mlolongo and Athi River police stations to patrol Dramvell area on a daily basis. “For effective security management, there should be a permanently established police post at Dramvell,” the administrator said. The deputy commissioner noted security issues are sensitive so they require quick interventions. “We hope the new deputy inspector general of police will be able to reactivate its officers to work faster." Omoding' asked the service to devolve some of its mandates for efficiency. “We have been pursuing engagements that are taking too long. The NPS has become bureaucratic on management of police. Decisions have to be ratified at Jogoo House in Nairobi," he said. "I wish they allowed offices in counties to make some decisions. Devolve some roles or act swiftly. It has taken more than six months." Omoding’ said there had been a recommendation for a fully fledged police station at Joska along Kangundo Road. He said they will be ready to send officers to Dramvell and Joska should the stations be established and gazetted as required by the law. Omoding’ issued these remarks in response to allegations by Kamulu and Dramvell residents that militia groups which attack them could be colluding with security officials. They said the security committee promised to establish an AP Post at Dramvell six months ago but had not done so yet the community donated land and houses for the officers. Omoding’said the issues will be resolved soon. “We will crash the militia group which is perpetuating crime in the area." Click here for the latest political news