A Luhya lobby calling itself the Obulala Movement wants ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula to quit NASA as soon as possible. It said NASA has shortchanged the community and they are not ready to play second fiddle to any ethnic group, come 2022. The lobby says the community will identify a political leader sellable to all its 18 subtribes and rally behind him for the 2022 presidential contest. It has resolved that the community starts preparing for the race by launching a serious voter registration and education campaign in Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia counties and to “our people” in cities and major towns countrywide. The lobby, under what it called the “Eshieywe Declaration”, said the community must hit the ground running to be ready for the battle. Its members met in Kakamega last Wednesday. Chairman Richard Ekhalie said they would start implementing their resolutions immediately. The lobby wants Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to align themselves and their troops with the objective of uniting all the Luhyas to support one of “our own” in 2022. “Failing to do so in the next quarter will see the Abaluhya community abandon them [Mudavadi and Wetang’ula] and identify fresh, brave and visionary leaders, who will mark the beginning of a generational change in Luhya politics,” the declaration said. Mudavadi, Wetang’ula and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) are positioning themselves to succeed NASA chief Raila Odinga, who is expected to quit elective politics come 2022. United Democratic Party leader Cyrus Jirongo is another Luhya leader with interest in the presidency. He unsuccessfully ran for the seat at the August 8 and October 26 polls. Another politician whose name has been floated with regard to Luhya leadership is Kakamega Governor Wyckliffe Oparanya. The Obulala Movement wants the community to adopt collective savings and investment through saccos, with a view to transforming them into microfinance institutions and eventually full-fledged banks. This, it says, will ease access to credit, boost the Western economy and transform the lives of residents. The group further wants the community to stop overreliance on low-paying jobs in cities and big towns and instead adopt small-scale trade and other economic activities in their counties so they can eventually create big ventures that would create many gainful jobs for the region’s youth. “That will require the Luhya middle-class blessed with well-paying jobs or successful businesspeople to invest at home and boost the economy of our motherland,” it said.