The Amani National Congress Party has described as "greed" the demands by Wiper to have one of its MPs nominated to the Parliamentary Service Commission. Scramble for parliamentary leadership positions has exposed cracks within NASA with Wiper crying foul. The Kalonzo Musyoka-led party has accused Raila Odinga's ODM of taking key positions at the expense of other NASA affiliates. Speaking to the star on the phone yesterday, ANC secretary general Godfrey Otsosi said Wiper ought not to complain because it had been given lucrative positions. "Wiper should understand that it is always a give and take in coalition matters. It should stop trying to bulldoze its way every time something happens," Otsosi said. Otsosi defended ODM, saying it had sacrificed a lot for other parties despite getting more slots. Of the three slots in the PSC, NASA nominated Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa (ODM), Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga (ODM) and Vihiga Senator George Khaniri (ANC). "That is how a coalition operates. Mathematically speaking, ODM was to take almost everything," Otsosi said. Wiper wants one of the ODM nominees dropped in favour of Borabu MP Ben Momanyi (Wiper). Otsosi said Wiper had been given lucrative positions including the Senate minority whip which went to Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr. The party also had Jessica Mbalu (Kibwezi East) elected the vice chairperson of the powerful Public Account Committee. Otsosi said Wiper should be satisfied with the positions. He said NASA affiliate parties should consider regional balance in the distribution of positions within their ranks. "Concentrating of the interest of out parties alone will not help us. We need to also consider regions that did not give us much support," Otsosi said. "This is a small matter that has been blown over by a few greedy guys. I hope the principals will deal with it once and for all," Otsosi said. Otsosi accused faceless mercenaries of being behind the Wiper push for the position with the aim of creating disharmony in NASA. He urged coalition members to remain sober and vigilant, saying opponents were keen on dividing the coalition. "Let it not be that some people are being used by outside forces to cause divisions among us," he said. because we want to concentrate on swearing of the people's President, "He said Otsosi. He said that typical of coalition, such things were poised to occur but called for soberness When handling weighty issues.