This is the dramatic moment a stranded baby elephant was rescued from a deadly rushing crocodile-infested river. The African elephant calf was moments away from drowning when locals risked their own lives to go into the waters of the Ewaso Nyiro River in Samburu National Reserve in Kenya. Three brave drivers from a nearby camp strode 10 metres into the dangerous water to bring the stranded baby elephant to safety, while worried camp guests looked on and called them 'heroes'. Jude Baraza Boy, who saw the tense rescue, said the elephant is 'lucky to be alive' after being separated from its mother. Jude, the operations manager at Atua Enkop Africa luxury camps in Kenya, said: "She is very lucky. She could have been drowned or attacked by crocodiles." "The baby got separated from the mother after heavy rainfall. She fell into the river and was washed away." "Her family left her after being unable to cross and recover the calf." "We noticed her when she was on the other side of the river to us, crying all alone. She seemed really shocked and distressed." Elephants are regularly spotted in the area, and when the guides saw the elephant fall into the water they sprang into action. Jude, 57, from Nairobi said: "At first the guides were watching and waiting to see if her family would come back." "But when she fell in the river, our guides went in immediately. She wasn't trapped for long." "I was concerned for the elephant, and worried watching her and the rescuers in the river, but I was relieved and happy to see them all returned to safety." "The guests were also very happy and very impressed. To the best of my knowledge this is the first time something like this has happened at camp." And Jude says the baby, now without a family, is now being well cared for at a local elephant orphanage. "After the rescue the baby was kept warm and transferred to the airstrip, where it was air lifted to an elephant orphanage." "She is still being cared for at the orphanage. No one know where the family is," Jude said.