Marakwet East deputy commissioner Stephen Sangolo yesterday said security
agencies will continue with eviction of illegal settlers in Embobut forest despite outcry by human rights activists. Sangolo said security agencies are currently
carrying out an operation to smoke out armed bandits and illegal settlers using the forest as a hideout. He said the criminals
are mixing with Sengwer community to engage in illegal activities, making it difficult for security agencies to differentiate between the two. “Security
officers will continue smoking out anyone who is in the forest illegally. We will
ensure that we get rid of illegal loggers, land speculators and cattle rustlers,”
Sangolo said. He dismissed
claims that Sengwer community was being evicted and their houses burned down by
security officers, saying families living in the forest were compensated in 2014 and
moved out. The administrator
dismissed reports by civil society groups that security agencies are violating
human rights in the ongoing evictions, telling them to keep off the operation. He told
Amnesty International, KNHCR, National Coalition for Human Rights Defenders and
Katiba Institute to go to the ground and establish the truth instead of writing
reports in the comfort of their offices. “Community
members who claim their houses have been destroyed should come out and make
official complaints,” he said. “On
Wednesday, human right officers came here and sat outside our offices and
called their offices in Nairobi saying they are on the ground. We ask them to
be ethical,” he added. The administrator said
the police are investigating the death of a Sengwer community member killed in
the forest on Tuesday. His remarks
were quickly rubbished by local human rights activists led by Wilfred Kihara. They said evictions were forceful and targets the indigenous community and not
criminals as claimed by the county official. Kihara said
the Sengwer community have gone back to the forest after receiving Sh410,000 as
compensation from the state, saying the payouts were inadequate for evictees to
buy land and resettle elsewhere. KFS North Rift head of operation Stephen Chesa
said the evictions will continue despite the suspension of Sh3.6 billion for
conservation of Cherangany and Mount Elgeon Water towers on Wednesday. 