History-maker Mike Madoya is not ready to leave his beloved Zoo Kericho in spite of increased interest from top Kenyan Premier League clubs. Madoya who was crowned the 2017 KPL Footballer of the Year said he is determined to help Zoo defy all odds and win the league title in what will be their second appearance in the top flight league. “I want to win the league with Zoo this year. Just like I did by winning the player of the year award, we can surprise many,” said the diminutive midfiedler. Just like last season when then Western Stima ace Kenneth Muguna was the surprise winner of the best player award, Madoya too pipped some household names in Kenyan international goalkeeper Patrick Matasi and championship winning Gor Mahia leading scorer Medie Kagere. “Honestly I did not expect to win all the awards I was nominated in. I thought maybe I could win open but to win all four is amazing,” said Madoya. The Zoo playmaker won the fair play award, the midfielder of the year award as well as the new player of the year award to go with being the best player in the 2017 season. In a night of surprise, no Gor Mahia player won any award despite the team winning the league, something that caused uproar on social media. Veteran Mathare United defender George Owino who was instrumental in the Slum Boys successful fight for survival in the top flight league won the defender of the year award with Matasi named the best goalkeeper. “Ever since I moved from AFC Leopards, I have  improved a lot and that is all due to the support of my coaches here at Posta Rangers. I  will continue to do my best both for my club and the national team,” said Matasi, who was the first choice goalkeeper as Harambee Stars won the Cecafa Senior challenge Cup in Machakos last month. For leading Kariobangi Sharks to a veritable third-place finish in their maiden top flight campaign, William Muluaya deservedly took home the coach of the year award with Gor Mahia’s title winning tactician Dylan Kerr missing out due to the nomination rules. Long-serving KPL official Frank Okoth was handed the chairman’s award for his service to the league.