Human rights activists Ken Wafula will be remembered for his persistence and courage, if his quests for the Trans Nzoia senator seat and change in Ford Kenya are considered. Wafula died on Wednesday at St Lukes Hospital in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county, where he was admitted with diabetes. More on this: Human rights activist Ken Wafula dies at Eldoret hospital Also read: Ken Wafula: The man who braved threats to defend 2007 PEV victims at ICC Wafula first got into the race in 2013 but lost the Ford Kenya nominations
to Henry Ole Ndiema. He later joined Safina but lost at the ballot. After that year's general elections, the activist rejoined Ford
Kenya and became organising secretary. He recruited many members to the party and helped to make it popular in Trans Nzoia. He also pushed the party’s national elections but it
was reported leaders did not buy his idea. Early last year, Wafula organised a coup, with the aim of replacing Ford Kenya party leader Moses
Wetang'ula, but his quest was unsuccessful. He and Wetang'ula later reconciled but after paying
nomination fees to participate in the party’s nominations as a senator in 2017, he
was shocked to learn his name was missing. He ran as an independent candidate. That year, a group of
unknown people roughed up Wafula, leaving him with injuries, after the party’s meeting in Kitale. Wafula said he was rescued by good Samaritans who rushed him to
Cherangany Nursing Home in the town. The incident followed one in September 2016 when the activist made good his threat and organised
a coup to become Ford Kenya Trans Nzoia chairman. He wanted the party to follow the constitution for national elections to be
conducted. Wafula broke the door of the party’s office at Grasslands and
chaired the first meeting. "Although I have taken over the office, my team is
suggesting that Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba should be the chairman
while I become secretary general," he said. By then Wafula, had been fighting for the position with Kwanza MP
Ferdinand Wanyonyi, who was the interim chairman. Wafula wondered why he served in acting capacity for long. However, after a separate meeting in Kitale, Wanyonyi
dismissed Wafula’s move and insisted he was still the chairman. "You should ignore what Wafula has done because he is just
but a masquerader. I will continue to chair the party in Trans Nzoia." Wafula had attempted defiance in 2015 but failed to take office even though
he had been backed by majority of the chairmen from the county. He later solved
his differences with the party leadership. Following his
demise, several Trans Nzoia leaders condoled with the family saying Trans Nzoia and
the country at large have lost a brave leader. “My heartfelt condolences
 to the family. He was a very
courageous and bold human rights activist. May the almighty God give his family
strength and comfort at this difficult time” said Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa. Trans Nzoia Red
cross chairman Ronald Masindano said: "He was such a brave soldier of justice. He
literally took on Ford Kenya's inept leadership. I whisked him to Eldoret in a KRCS
ambulance after he was beaten badly last year. He stood for truth”. Saboti MP Caleb Amisi said: "I have learnt with great shock the passing on of my friend Ken Wafula, who was one of the most fiery human rights activists and politicians. May the almighty father give his family strength at this difficult time and may God rest his soul in eternal peace." Click here for the latest political news