Highlights: This momentous, first-ever people-led national debate is being narrowly cast as being about the swearing-in by the People’s Assembly, a powerful but essentially symbolic exercise. Ostensibly about electoral injustice and killings of protestors, it is in fact being driven by a deep, decades-long malaise - symbolized by the holding of only one honest election in 2002 - which has repeatedly thwarted the power of ideas in determining the direction of Kenya’s future by those with narrow ethnic-based followings whose mighty idea is the reliance on the armed might of the state. The swearing-in is being forcefully propelled by ordinary Kenyans, who have since the fake October election relentlessly pushed not-always eager leaders to confront the plague of electoral theft and injustice through the revolutionary idea of swearing in. This is the first such mass movement in Kenya’s independent history, and it holds the potential for bringing meaningful change to Kenya if it succeeds in its current quest. The essential question is this: how do the well-meaning, who oppose the peaceful instruments of swearing in and the People’s Assembly, propose to correct the growing ills and deepening impoverishment of most Kenyans that dictatorial rule has wrought? Not even presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki have enjoyed Raila’s enduring national support except their first few years of tenure. ---------------------- The crescendo of ever fiercer government threats against Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka’s swearing-in reached alarming levels this morning when media reported security chiefs, many newly appointed for their hardline tactics, were considering detaining NASA leaders, a step which would precipitate national chaos. The Nation’s headline focused on NASA leaders as the potential cause of the problem: “Violence Looms as Nasa Digs in on Oath.” The event itself poses negligible risk of violence, unless it is stoked by the authorities’ fear of a massive turnout, which will further humiliate Uhuru Kenyatta, whose legitimacy as president is bedeviled by the paltry numbers who voted for him in the unopposed 26 October “election.” Related: Uhuru Park is the only option, Magaya says as Raila supporters arrive Also read: Raila swearing-in illegal but police shouldn't kill supporters - Ole Sapit But amid the relentless government and foreign power criticism of the swearing in, few have looked at the event as a reflection of the profound malaise that has gripped the country for the last 6 months, rather than as the cause of the current tensions. Nor has anyone acknowledged the role that Raila’s much awaited swearing in and the People’s Assembly have played in maintaining peace in the country. The idea behind Raila’s and Kalonzo’s swearing in and the creation of the People’s Assembly was a Nasa master stroke. It was a symbolic gesture which diminished the legitimacy of the reviled Uhuru Ruto regime. At the same time, it provided the prospect of an alternative leadership for ideas and initiatives that the de facto presidency and parliament have refused to contemplate to address issues that are uppermost in most Kenyans’ minds. Like the Presidency, the National Assembly was also hijacked in the rigged election. There will be potent and popular alternatives now. The Jubilee regime and some western envoys have called the People’s Assembly and its President unconstitutional, even though they have no idea what precise oath the two leaders will take. Constitutions define values and parameters, and do not list all that is permissible. Uhuru Kenyatta has just appointed Chief Administrative Secretaries who are not catered for in the Constitution, but there has been no outcry about that. The real question about these peaceful NASA initiatives is not their legality but why millions of Kenyans in the mainstream and pillars of the establishment have been driven to adopt such revolutionary steps and demand the swearing in a people’s president. Many of these same people have gone even farther and demanded that they be given arms to protect themselves against police killings, and that failing a negotiated settlement to electoral justice, to seriously consider secession. That is what the discussion in Kenya should be all about: what is causing a country with mostly moderate leaders considering such radical solutions that were not even being dreamt of before Uhuru became president. This momentous, first-ever people-led national debate is about the country’s future, and while ostensibly about prolonged electoral injustice and killings of protestors, is also being driven by a deep, decades-long malaise of sectarian marginalization, exclusion and poverty, all of which is symbolized by the holding of only one honest democratic election since 1963, in 2002, to then president Moi’s immense credit. The reason there is so much fuss about the swearing among Jubilee and its backers is that it finally poses the greatest-ever challenge to the country’s powerful, narrowly constituted elite who have ruled Kenya for over half a century with leaders from only two communities out of the nearly 50 who make up our nation. There have been numerous challenges to the status quo throughout our history, but these were always driven by leaders. But the current challenge emanates from a majority of the population. We have had situations before when most Kenyans were opposed to the government, but never where they were determined to take concrete (but peaceful) steps to subject it to a new election and to usher in a new era of lawful, inclusive and equitable rule. In this determination, the people have relentlessly pushed the initially not eager NASA leaders to confront injustice by being sworn in. At one point, they openly condemned Raila Odinga himself, when he delayed the swearing in to give dialogue a chance. So the debate has now been liberated from leaders. The people are in command of it now. The net result of Uhuru’s reign is that a senior NASA leader like Deputy President Kalonzo Musyoka, who is a self-confessed moderate, has moved very far in his progressive evolution and has resisted huge pressure to leave Raila and NASA. He said two days ago that “in the next few days, we will know whether we will be one country or two.” NASA principal and campaign head Musalia Mudavadi has similarly evolved to take tough positions on the changes needed. Both were very much pushed by their bases in western and Ukambani, who wanted them to stick with Raila to ensure change happened. The idea behind the swearing in and the People’s Assembly is to provide a range of ideas and initiatives through an alternative leadership to both the Presidency and the National Assembly. Like the Presidency, the latter was also hijacked in the rigged election, and has refused in the last five months to consider any issues that are uppermost in most Kenyans’ minds. Read: Police declare Uhuru Park out of bounds tomorrow Also read: State to deploy hundreds of cops in city and arrest leaders to block NASA event Finally, a word about Raila Odinga, the leader most vigorously demonized by the elites and oligarchs because of his egalitarian, social democratic roots, his pro-poor policies and his vast popularity beyond his Nyanza base. He is recognized by independent analysts as the most successful opposition leader in the last quarter century. But in fact, no leader, including our presidents, have had such a long stretch of popularity as he has had. Raila was instrumental in winning the presidency for Mwai Kibaki in 2002. After Kibaki’s betrayal of the Coalition that put him in power, Raila as ODM opposition leader defeated the government’s proposed new Constitution in the 2005 referendum, and he then won the next three elections in 2007, 2013 and 2017. In 2010 he finally achieved his and Kenya’s goal of a progressive Constitution. Not even presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel arap Moi and Kibaki have enjoyed such enduring national support except their first few years of tenure. He now faces his greatest test yet, against a rough regime which has little respect for the law or human life. Click here for the latest political news