Results of last year's August election are irrelevant where NASA chief Raila Odinga's swearing-in is concerned, the president has said. The Opposition intends to use results of that election to defiantly inaugurate Raila and his running mate as leaders of what they call the People's Republic of Kenya. The IEBC declared president Uhuru Kenyatta winner with 8,203,290 votes against Raila's 6,762,224 but the ODM leader said he won by 1.4 million votes. After Raila filed a petition at the Supreme Court, Uhuru's victory was invalidated and a repeat later set for October 26. But he withdrew claiming malpractices would take place. NASA's plan is now to swear-in the two on January 30 despite attorney general Githu Muigai's that this would be an act of high treason, punishable by death. Kalonzo has been calling for dialogue by the top leaders but he said on Thursday that it seemed he was being ignored. More on this: Only God can save Kenya, Kalonzo says after 'many dialogue pleas' Related: You need my support to win the presidency, Raila tells DP Ruto Via Twitter on Friday, Uhuru's Jubilee Party said: "They went to court to have the election nullified, they celebrated with song and dance when the election was nullified. "Now, in a strange turn, they want to swear themselves in based on the results of that same election #NullifiedAndIrrelevant." Kenyans weighed in on these remarks, one Nyakwar Dani saying "You guys are dumb...The court nullified fraudulent results, not the right results....all computer-generated leaders are in chaos now." A person identified as W Namaswa said 70 per cent of the public boycotted the re-run that Jubilee won and asked who Uhuru and deputy president William Ruto represent. Voting did not take place in NASA strongholds such as Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori counties and Uhuru got 98 per cent of votes cast by 38.84 per cent of the population. '@Mchills2008' wrote: "Jubilee Party must fall together with its despotic duo [Uhuru and Ruto." Twitter user 'Amo_254k' noted: "You can't force yourselves on people who didn't vote for you. The illegitimate government must fall." More on dispute: [VIDEO] NASA, Jubilee talk tough ahead of Raila swearing But other Kenyans urged the president and DP to hold talks with Opposition leaders as the elections season ended. "I hope, for once, that you can be candid. It's not time for politics. Address real issues. I do not support the swearing-in but don't play politics here," Charles Kimuyu said. "We are tired of your political brainwashing and are more clever. NASA and Jubilee, you are all opportunists [who are playing politics] at the expense of Kenyans. A burden." Charlo Bazenga said the ruling coalition should engage the National Super Alliance to avert a political crisis and restore stability. "Kenyans want a peaceful environment in which they can fend for themselves. Kenyans are tired of ruling class games." In his address in Kitui West yesterday, Kalonzo warned that Kenya could end up like Sudan and Somalia. Leaders must prioritise dialogue, he said, amid calls for Uhuru and Ruto to hold talks with NASA co-principals Raila, Kalonzo (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). "I feel really pained about my country but I do not want to make any other plea. I think I have spoken enough. I am only but a Kenyan leader who feels concerned," he said. It was reported on January 20 that former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo might have left the country without meeting Uhuru when he shuttled into Nairobi to broker a deal with Raila. But State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu told The Star yesterday there was no meeting request from Obasanjo. Details: Uhuru snubs Obasanjo call for dialogue Click here for the latest political news