What rift? The Mulembe nation has never been more united, Luhya leaders have said. Talk of a rift among the Luhya subtribes has been rife since Water CS Eugene Wamalwa was heckled at the Maragoli Cultural Festival on December 26. But leaders on Sunday said the talk is mere propaganda spread by their rivals. “They are spreading propaganda that Luhya people are divided, but we are all here today to prove them wrong,” Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula said in Kakamega. The leaders had come together to welcome NASA co-principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka. “As [the] Mulembe nation, we are united from Kolongolo to Port Victoria; from Goibei to Malaba. We are one people,” Wetang'ula added. The Bungoma senator, who is from the Bukusu subtribe, said Wamalwa was not rejected in Vihiga because he is a Bukusu, but because of his affiliation to Jubilee. “The same thing happened to him in Bumula, where he was beaten and alcohol poured on him.” Wamalwa was heckled by angry youths and was rescued by Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, who spoke for on behalf leaders from Bungoma county, demanded ID cards for residents. "Electoral justice begins with issuance of IDs. In Western it has been a problem getting one. We have to change that," he said. “This time round we won’t allow any division among the people of Western. We will continue moving forward as one force.” The leaders resolved to support each other in addressing the community's plight. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said it was time the community took a firm stand. "We have resolved to pursue more vigorously and purposely than ever the unity of the Luhya nation and make a platform of recognising the unity with other communities," Savula read the resolution. The leaders were from Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia counties. Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, representing Trans Nzoia, said the community will not quit NASA. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who hosted the leaders, urged them to remain united to negotiate for national political seats. Oparanya said residents of Western have been neglected by previous regimes and only Raila can save them. “We were neglected by the Jomo Kenyatta regime, Moi, Kibaki and now the Uhuru regime.” The leaders complained of collapsing industries, especially the sugar sector.        