A standoff is looming in Thika town between hawkers and genuine, licensed traders. Last Sunday askaris cracked down on hawkers to flush them out of the CBD after traders protested against their influx. Traders from Moi and Mukiriti markets last week threatened to take to the streets. The traders, in a meeting in Moi Gardens, said they would forcibly eject the hawkers from the CBD if the county government calls off the crackdown or allows them to infiltrate the town again. They said the hawkers, who come from Kayole, Roysambu, Githurai and parts of Murang’a county, sell their wares at throwaway prices leading to an exodus of their customers. VOTE MACHINES “Since the governor allowed the hawkers to sell their wares in the town, we have been making few or no sales, yet we are the ones who pay rates and licences, and rent too,” Moi Market chairman Nicholas Muiruri said. “The hawkers have taken all our customers and we won’t take this lying down. We will flush them out of the town ourselves.” But the hawkers say they will stay put since they have Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s permission. “The last time there was this turmoil, our governor told us to be operating from 6pm until he gets a place to settle us. No one else will convince us otherwise,” said a hawker who did not want to be named. The hawkers flooded the town during last year’s campaign season, with all politicians welcoming them to secure their support. GO BACK Last year during another standoff between traders and hawkers Waititu said, “I know some came from outside because they saw a market. Hawkers who have been in this town for long are very few, they are also known. Now that the campaigns are over, let everybody go back to where they came from.” But the hawkers say they are from Kiambu and have a right to do business anywhere in the country. Waititu promised the hawkers an open-air market. The traders from Moi Market asked the hawkers to join them as there are more than 1,000 unoccupied stalls. “... they should rent space as we do,” trader Fred Mwangi said. The traders accused county askaris of allowing the hawkers into the streets to collect bribes. “We know money has been changing hands and that’s why it’s taking ages to eject the hawkers from town but enough is enough now. If the enforcement officers won’t do their work, we will assume it,” Muiruri said. Sub-county administrator Christopher Wanjau said they will investigate. Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike said traders have been counting their losses. Click here for the latest political stories