Senators will amend the law to allow governors appoint deputies if the positions become vacant. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka yesterday said the issue is one of the emerging management problems the lawmakers will deal with when they get back from recess next month. They will also make amendments to allow voters recall MCAs who violate the law. The changes are contained in the County Government (Amendment) Bill, 2017 sponsored by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen. The bill, awaiting tabling in the House, also seeks to bar a deputy governor from automatically assuming the office of the governor in the event that office becomes vacant as a result of death or impeachment. “We want to look at a number of issues and gaps that are in the Constitution when the Senate convenes on February 13. Some of the issues include what happens when a deputy governor resigns,” Lusaka said. He was speaking in his office at Parliament Buildings when Kenyan-born Australian Senator Lucy Gichuhi paid him a courtesy call. Read: Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him   CONSTITUTION SILENT Lusaka’s spoke even as Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko battles with the shock resignation of Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. Igathe quit last week, citing lack of trust by his boss in discharging his duties. The Constitution is silent on the replacement of a deputy governor. That silence leaves Sonko without a deputy for the next five years, unless the proposed law comes into force. Lusaka also talked about the unending feuds among Murang’a MCAs over county assembly leadership positions. “A recall of an MCA shall only be initiated upon a judgment or finding by the High Court confirming the grounds specified,” the proposed bill reads. The recall can only be initiated 24 months after the election of the MCA. However, it will not be initiated later than 12 months to the next general election. Violation of integrity requirements for public servants in Chapter Six of the Constitution, mismanaging public funds or committing an electoral offence are some of the reasons for recalling an MCA. Lusaka asked Murang’a MCAs to stop their shameful behaviour. “We should act like honourable members. If you behave the way they are behaving, then people will start wondering whether you are really a honorable member or not,” Lusaka said. Read: Sonko and Igathe fall out as State House takes charge of City Hall  HOMEGROWN SOLUTION He said the Senate is already probing the fist-fights that occurred in Murang’a. Gichuhi urged Kenyans to stop relying on foreign nations to resolve their problems, especially the political disputes “There is need to re-look the disputes. Political disputes can only be solved politically. There should be homegrown solutions to Kenyan problems,” Gichuhi said. Click here for the latest political news