Retired South African Judge Johann Kriegler has asked the Kenyan judiciary to leave politicians out of matters of law. He said this will help the judiciary overcome undue pressure from government, politicians, and other parties seeking redress in the justice system. Kriegler said the judiciary is currently grappling with challenges because it has injected legal rules in political matters, a situation that has left many lawyers stuck between the law and political litigation. "We have our political horse-trading to be substituted with litigation. I want to remind us that legal debates cannot be a solution to political problems." "Political problems will only but frustrate the legal process. Law doesn't belong to politicians," he said on Monday. Kriegler said it is unthinkable that in Kenya, a motion of no confidence in a certain governor can be litigated in court, ignoring the most important voice of the electorate who elected the governor. "It is my desire that Kenyan judicial system will keep the law out of politics as humanly far as possible. Let politicians seek political solutions to their political problems." "This will help you establish a judicial resilience and promote a stable system that will be believed by everybody," Kriegler said during an LSK meeting in Nairobi. He added that there is a need for the judiciary to review what went wrong or right in the 2017 election to build a stronger judicial service that will future poll petitions. "Dispute resolution relies on complex law but our lawyers are not cognisance of the complexity of election. Elections are not legal processes but political." He said the law that is applied on matters election must take cognisance of the electoral law adding that the same must be applied with wisdom principled by deliberations. Kriegler maintained that no two elections are the same, thus the matter of making judgements basing on precedents hold no water in the current society. "The law is about substance while elections are about perceptions, not sums and figures. What people believe remains the most vital," the judge said. He said Kenya remains one of the leading countries in the world with the most expensive election and complex electoral systems. Krigler further dismissed claims that he drafted the famous Kriegler report published in the aftermath of the 2007 election. "I did not write the Kriegler report. Recommendations were largely by fellow countrymen. I only led the team to compile the recommendations and that should not be interpreted to mean I was the one who wrote the report," he said. He said it has become evident that people, especially the political class, have no respect for the judiciary. Thus, there must be a review to establish whether the current laws are fulfils its functions, Kriegler added. He said Kenya must emulate other democracies where despite complications in the electoral process there has been no lose of life reported. "South Africa and Mexico have held some of the most complicated elections compounded with lack of ballot papers, marking ink and people locked out of lines and no one lost life despite days of protests, this is where Kenya should aim to be," he said. Click here for the latest political news 