A crisis is looming in several schools across the country following the rejection of new principals by politicians, parents and church leaders. The stalemate, fueled by claims of under performance, ethnic animosity, politics and religious considerations, has threatened to disrupt activities in the first week of the school calendar. Scores of principals transferred in the December are facing strong rebellion from education stakeholders in their new work stations. At the center of opposing forces is the Catholic Church and a section of political leaders, who have rejected some school heads transferred by the Teachers Service Commission. Read:‘Stop this foolishness': Matiang’i tells off teacher transfer opponents Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati has warned new principals posted in his county that he will lead residents and parents in evicting them from the schools. He accused them of under performance in their previous stations and called on Education CS Fred Matiang'i to reverse their transfer. “The TSC should not bring failures to our schools. We will not accept principals who had a mean score of 5.9 to come to schools which had a mean-score of nine and above,” Wangamati said on Sunday when he met principals from Bungoma county. “I will not entertain mediocrity in our schools. As an elected leader, I have to ensure we improve academically. Let the TSC and Matiang'i understand that Bungoma is not a dumpsite for failures.” Area senator Moses Wetangula echoed similar sentiments. Bungoma schools affected by the changes include Friend's School Kamusinga, Chesamis Boys and Lugulu Girls. Last week, National Assembly Leader of Minority John Mbadi told the Star there was a sinister motive in the transfers. “Matiang'i has just poached good principals in some areas and taken to areas he thinks should have better principals. He picked the best principals from Siaya and Migori and transferred them to Nyamira. Not that Nyamira should not have good principals, but why take the good ones and give us people you know are not performing,” Mbadi said on the phone. Kenya National Union of Teachers boss Wilson Sossion called for a review of the transfers. “You cannot use teachers to bring national cohesion where the damages have been caused by politicians. We are not medicine to cure problems caused by politicians. Let teachers teach where they are comfortable and near stations where they can bring change,” Sossion said. “The whole policy is not going to work. It can’t work and it will never work. The transfers must be reversed.” He said the transfers had created ethnic animosity and demanded that teachers be posted in areas which they understand. In Kisii, the Catholic diocese has locked horns with TSC over the transfer of Dennis Muyendo to Cardinal Otunga High School. The school is sponsored by the church. Muyendo was posted to the school to take over from Zachary Nyariki, who was transferred to Kimilili Boys. Kisii diocese bishop Joseph Mairura accused Muyendo of non-performance even though records show the principal's previous school, Mukumu Boys, posted better results than Cardinal Otunga. Mairura locked the principal out of office and went away with the keys. Area TSC deputy director David Mairuka confirmed. “You should wake up when bishops are closing schools because it’s a serious phenomenon. Settle teachers in their communities and homes where they are comfortable and can push positive change,” said Sossion. Kisii County Deputy Director, TSC David Muruka accused the sponsor of trying to have its choice at the helm of the school. “Mukumu Boys has recorded excellent results than cardinal Otunga for many years, so whats is the hidden agenda of this sponsor to lock out the principal,” stated. Muruka. “The church being the sponsor, it is not sincere at all when locking the principal out of office with petty reasons.” TSC transferred more than 500 school heads in a shakeup that moved many teachers outside their home counties. During the official opening of the 13th annual Kenya Primary School Head Teachers Association last year, TSC said they would implement radical measures in the education management system. The commission said principals who had served for more than nine years in their home counties would be transferred. TSC argued the transfers would help address issues of conflict of interest, that arise from teachers serving in their local areas for long. Secondary school principals and their deputies are now required to have a Master’s degree, while their Primary school counterparts are required to have a minimum of a first degree in education. Also Read:Teacher transfers are a policy issue, nothing sinister Click here for latest political news  