I
learned about the DP’s meeting with some Rift Valley MPs at Weston Hotel on
social media. It aborted because some lawmakers walked out on him, but I didn't
see that in mainstream media. I have no information from any person and I
cannot claim knowledge of the meeting. The
Deputy President needs to do a lot of work to consolidate his own turf. He
should pay attention to it and I'm sure he will manage it. He needs to be
recognized so that residents know that he is their own. He should, once in a
while, sit down with us, chat, and that is all. We cannot place any demands. Personal
relations with his people are very important. The DP should do it the same way
retired President Moi used to do. Every weekend or two weeks, he would call for
a group of people from, for example, Baringo and host them at his Kabarak home.
Next he hosts people from other parts of the Rift Valley. They sit, chat, eat
and walk around together. People then feel very happy when they return home,
bragging, “We were with Mzee”. This
is recognition and the DP needs to do that. He should attend fundraisers and
even get an opportunity to pick and dialogue with opinion leaders. Moi used to
assemble all former MPs and hold talks. Someone
like NASA leader Raila Odinga has strange ways of doing things. He has youths
in various regions and personally calls them for interaction to keep his
political influence alive. This
is what William needs to do. President
Uhuru Kenyatta is taking too long to name his entire Cabinet because political
appointments normally require a lot of thinking and research. There are so many
factors that have to be taken into consideration.  We have the tribal
angle, which leads to regional balance, and you have to ensure your Cabinet has
the face of Kenya. It even becomes very complicated if the government is formed
from a coalition because every party needs a share of the cake. Last time,
there were TNA and URP. I believe there was an agreement on the sharing of
government positions. Jubilee
now is one, but the URP and TNA mindsets are still there. The President should
have struck like lightning in naming his full Cabinet – once and for all.   The writer is a former Comptroller of State Houses and Cabinet
minister  