The ‘Tale of the Note’ is a television advert by South African-based bank NedBank. This 90-second commercial is not only beautifully shot with an amazing soft soundtrack, but it is, and one doesn’t get to say this much about TV adverts, simply brilliant. The storyline is a journey of a note, a bank note that is, playing a leading role as we follow it moving through different hands, making its way across a city. As the note traverses the metropolis, we see the power of what it can do in the right or wrong hands, and that the note, or money in general, is neither bad nor good, but rather, it’s how it is used that defines it. So here’s the advert, an abridged description. It opens on a bearded man in a work apron working over an old printing press. The man, who we’ll call money maker, is the narrator throughout the advert. As he moves around his workshop, he starts off by saying, ‘Every note starts the same, out of ink and paper.’ The man then picks a note from the press, and marks it with an X. As he does this he says, ‘This is an experiment I’d like to show you, to see all the different things that money can do…’ We then transition from the workshop to a city street, where we see a young, happy couple gaily dashing across a road to a movie theatre. All smiles, the couple buy a pair of tickets, and as they do, we see that the money they’re using is the note marked X by the money maker. In the background, the money maker is saying, ‘Some people respect money, for the potential it holds…’ And so starts the journey of the note, moving from a positive scene to a negative scene and on and on, all the while we’re listening to the money maker talking about the different things that money does. From the date, the note finds itself bribing a policeman. And then it’s in a glass savings jar belonging to a small boy who takes it to a bank. Next it’s in a casino and then a pawnshop. There’s a scene where the note is in a dimly lit night club, where the women are half dressed, with live snakes draped over their shoulders. The note then finds itself in an envelope, that’s handed over to a tearful bride. The next scene is of a father buying his daughter an ice cream cone with the note, and as these two touching scenes are playing out on screen, the money maker is saying, ‘…or do you see the happiness money can bring, the meaning that matters far more than mere things.’ The last scene sees the money maker on a street buying a newspaper. The note he gets back in change is… you guessed it, the note marked X, which the money maker holds out for us see, and then says, ‘Money isn’t just paper, you have to admit … It’s what you make of it!’ As he walks off, superimposed on our screens emerge the words… See Money Differently. Now that’s advice. Do more with money than impress little girls at night clubs, and wow impressionable minds with big cars. Buy experiences, not things. Experiences last a lifetime.