More than 13 people were killed by police in Mathare within two months last year, Police Violence in Mathare, a community report has established. The report, compiled by Mathare Social Justice Centre on the aftermath of August polls and the October repeat presidential elections found out over 30 people were injured coupled up with trails of destruction as a result of police brutality in the area. Among the cases of extrajudicial killings include the nine-year-old Stephanie Moraa, and three street children, reported to have been killed between August 9-13. David Owino (28), Bonface Ochieng (31), Silas Lebo (17), Victor Okoth (22) and Bonface Okoth (25) were killed while 27 others were injured within three days after the August 11 poll. “Numbers may even be higher. MSJC met great challenges in documentation since some victims were too afraid, and some families moved out for safety reasons,” the report says. On October 26, Paul Omina, Julius Juma and Reuben Ooko were killed while Dennis Odour sustained serious injuries after he was allegedly beaten by the police. “This report gives an indication of the scale and scope of police violence, but is not comprehensive given that gathering data has been proven risky and difficult for human rights defenders on the ground. Several human rights defenders needed relocation after receiving threats,” it notes. Mathare was one of the five areas marked by police as violence hot-spots prior and after the August and October elections. National tally of police killings on the aftermaths of the August 8 and October repeat presidential elections collected by the Star and human rights agencies stands above 112 people. Three days of unrest after the declaration of August 8 presidential results saw 37 people killed while another 50 were killed to the run up to the October 26 repeat polls. Fifteen were killed after the October poll while 10 were killed in November as they received NASA leader from JKIA. Despite calls to hold those responsible accountable, no case is before law courts for adjudication. Hundreds in opposition strongholds are nursing injuries and bullet wounds sustained from police beatings during protests. However, area OCPD Alice Kimeli said she was not aware of the killings and the report being cited.