Nine schools and a polytechnic in Kerio Valley remain closed following a bandit attack on the Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border on Saturday. Five people were shot dead. Four others were seriously injured and more than 300 cattle were stolen. The schools yet to reopen are Kemeli Primary School, Liter Primary School, Kemeli Secondary School and Liter Secondary School. Others are Chesongoch Primary, Kalya Primary, Kapka Primary School, Kapka Secondary, Chesuko Primary and Chesuko Polytechnic. Two MCAs and Knut officials yesterday said in Eldoret that several families have fled Chegon over insecurity. Teachers, too, have left. MCAs Evans Limo (Kapyego) and Paul Kipchumba (Embobut) cautioned residents against incitement. They urged leaders from the two counties to dialogue and find a lasting solution. “Schools have been affected by the attack, normal business has been disrupted. However, we appeal for calm and restraint,” Limo said. Speaking in Eldoret yesterday Marakwet West Knut executive secretary John Cheberi urged the government to improve security. “The situation is getting worse. We are asking the government to step in for normalcy to return, and learning to resume,” he said. However, schools reopened in Kerio Valley in areas where banditry has declined. Security officers are on high alert as learning and development have been disrupted. On Monday, political leaders from West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet met in West Pokot to discuss peace. They vowed to eradicate banditry. leaders hold meeting The meeting at Kameli was attended by West Pokot Senator Samwel Poghisio, Governor John Lonyangapuo, Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wisley Rotich. Marawket and Pokot leaders were present. “We will work together to end cattle rustling. The menace has affected the region economically and socially,” Tolgos said. Meanwhile, the government is going on with distribution of text books in schools in the North Rift and some in Kerio Valley. Elsewhere, more than 4,000 students, who score D- and below in the KCSE exams in Uasin Gishu, will be assisted to join technical training institutes. They will be trained in masonry, carpentry and plumping. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said in Eldoret yesterday that more than 500 candidates who scored E in the exams will also receive training. The governor said the county government will hire skilled youth to provide manpower for construction projects in the region.