A gynecologist has revealed the four common causes of vaginal burning. In her book The Complete A to Z For Your V, Dr Alyssa Dweck outlines vaginal itching or burning is a sign something is awry down below, yet most women experience this at some point in their lives. Vaginal discomfort can often be eased via simple lifestyle changes, such as avoiding scented sanitary towels and showering after exercise. Some cases may also feel like an internal itch but is actually eczema on the surrounding skin and can be treated with prescribed lotions. New York-based Dr Dweck adds, however, if burning persists or is affecting women's quality of life, they should visit their doctor. Infection Burning sensations in the vagina are usually caused by yeast infections, such as thrush, or bacterial vaginosis (BV). Thrust typically also causes a white, scent-less discharge, as well as soreness or stinging during sex or when urinating. Unlike thrush, BV can cause a fishy odor and watery, grey discharge. People should talk to their GP or pharmacist before using remedies to cure these condition as such treatments can worsen burning if they are not needed. Sexually transmitted infections such as chlamydia and gonorrhea, which often have no symptoms, can sometimes cause itching. External irritation Failing to shower after exercise or spending a long time in sweaty gym clothes are often the main culprits for external irritation on women's genitalias. Dr Dweck says showers should not be replaced with vaginal wipes or sprays as these can change the vagina's pH, leading to burning. She also recommends women avoid scented sanitary products and washing detergents as these also upset the organ's pH. Hormonal changes Rather than causing itching directly, hormonal changes can lead to dryness, resulting in discomfort. 'Whether it's due to pregnancy, menopause, perimenopause or using hormonal birth control pills, some people are prone to a feeling of burning due to dryness,' Dr Dweck said, according to NetDoctor. Another common cause is vulvodynia, which is a chronic pain syndrome with no clear cause that affects the vagina. Dr Dweck advises women visit a gynecologist if they suspect they are suffering from the condition. Skin conditions Vaginal burning may actually be irritation to the surrounding external skin, but the close proximity makes it feel internal. Eczema or psoriasis can irritate skin, while subsequent itching can lead to burning. These conditions can also spread to the vagina if untreated. Affected women should therefore visit a gynecologist or dermatologist.