The first term of President Uhuru Kenyatta was full of political noise. The opposition — just as they are trying to do today — started campaigning for 2017 immediately Uhuru was declared President in 2013. The Jubilee coalition, which brought together mainly TNA and URP, spent close to two years reorganising and re-engineering to ultimately form Jubilee Party. Socially — again due to the divisiveness of the 2013 election — Kenyans were struggling to work together as one nation. All these hindered service delivery. However despite all these Uhuru’s first term was still impressive. Devolution was entrenched to a point where today we cannot even remember what Kenya looked like before counties came into place. Every county is now a centre of social, political and economic development. Kenya also moved from position 136 to 80 in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business index. We built a world-class railway that so far has moved over 500,000 Kenyans from one part to the other. Millions of homes and thousands of schools got connected to electricity, while thousands of kilometres of access roads were built to connect food producers to markets. Critical medical equipment was distributed across the country as public hospital infrastructure was expanded. The NHIF was improved to enable quality healthcare provision to an even larger number of Kenyans. Free maternity healthcare was introduced. The education sector was reformed. Digital learning was introduced at primary school level. Exam fees were removed. Technical and vocational training institutions were upscaled and the credibility of national exams restored. All these happened in four years — 48 months! Now Uhuru is asking for our support in this his second and final term. He wants to consolidate the gains of his first term so all Kenyans can feel them. He wants to ensure 100 per cent universal healthcare coverage for all household, which means 13 million Kenyans and their dependents will have access to basic healthcare. He has a home ownership programme that will lower the cost of construction and increase access to mortgages so that at least 500,000 people can own their first home. Working with the manufacturing sector, he intends to raise the GDP from nine per cent to 15 per cent to create at least 1,000 new SMEs in agro-business, agricultural products value-addition and ICT. He also intends to negotiate new international markets for Kenyan products. All these efforts, cumulatively, will introduce millions of new jobs, especially for the youth, during his second term. Uhuru also intends to focus on governance, service delivery and accountability. He has made it very clear that no one will play around with the expectations of Kenyans. In Parliament we will be enacting legislation to strengthen fiscal discipline and ensure public money, at every level, is fully accounted for. Finally, Uhuru has committed to strengthening the ties that bind us as Kenyans at every level of our society. It is a known fact that he has a problem with those who use our diversity to adversely affect our unity as a nation. This is why he has stated over and over again that he will work with anyone willing to work with him, across the political divide, to ensure that Kenya becomes more united. I would like Uhuru to deliver on all these goals. But the effect of noise in 2013-17 tells me he will need a united, stable and quiet Kenya to do so. This requires us to desist from political campaigns — at whatever level — because they automatically split people into camps, for or against, whichever candidate is being proposed. Let us all join hands, work for the people of Kenya and help Uhuru deliver and secure his legacy.