It isn’t often that you discover a place that is really
worth talking about, but as I’m eagerly shown around the luxury tented
campsite, my guide proudly stops to tell me: “This place is heaven on earth”. And I couldn’t help but
agree. Hidden in Kitale, away from the cacophony of the roads and the city, surrounded by a blanket of emerald green tea fields and a haphazard
forest populated with different birds and small game, sits the Cranes Haven
resort. “We got into the hotel business by mistake. Cranes Haven was
born from a forest,” resort owner Rosemary Kittony tells me. “The
forest was part of the land we owned in Kitale, and it used to be more of a
recreational area. It was more of a Banda; my husband would come after visiting
the farm. “Sometimes he would come alone and sometimes we would have a
picnic or with friends and have a glass of wine and food. As time went on, we
started to play with the idea of having some sort of tented camp here.” The result is a collection of five luxury tents; three
doubles and two family-sized, nestled in serene forests with a heated pool and
the famous Paul’s bar, named after Rosemary’s father-in-law, who was a regular
visitor to the forest the camp is built on. The name itself, “Cranes Haven Resort”, comes from the fact
that the land is home to hundreds of the birds, as well as a number of other
species. This is made evident as anywhere you sit at the camp, you can
always hear the call of the birds. The different songs intertwining with each
other. It is an ideal destination for birdwatching enthusiasts. While most tented campsites offer elevated versions of
tents, meaning higher roofs, larger rooms and maybe even a bathroom tucked away
in the back, the tents at Cranes Haven sport a unique and beautiful thatched
roof that not only makes them stand out but also helps with climate
control. “We came across the idea of doing the roofs the way we did
while visiting some friends in Uganda,” Rosemary tells me as we sit in the
famous Paul’s bar. She points up at the high-pitched room made of a thick layer
of long reeds arranged almost obsessively uniform, creating a simple yet
beautiful design. “We noticed that the way they thatched their roofs was very
different to the way we do it here. The neatness of the reeds, the length, it
was just very seamless and professional. So we asked if we could do it here.” Each tent, I’m told, is named after a bird, except one called the Governor’s tent. The reason behind this by my guide Limonene
Jeremiah, is that the governor was the first person to stay in it. The tent is one of the three doubles on offer, and in
addition to the verandah, looking out into the bush, it comes equipped with a
large luxurious double bed, a bathroom with a Victorian claw foot bath tub, as
well as a shower area. For those who do get a little chilly at night, all tents
do come with a heater for the colder nights. If birdwatching is not necessarily your hobby, the camp
also offers a heated swimming pool as well as a nature hike to explore the area
and wildlife in the forest. It would also be ideal for those looking for a
retreat. Maybe it’s with family, or even a solo trip. It will be hard to find
somewhere quite so removed from everything. In addition to Cranes Haven resort, there is also the Hotel
Cranes in Kitale. A relatively new establishment, the hotel offers a selection
of rooms, from the self-catering double studio to the executive
suites.  Breakfast on the
rooftop restaurant is something that should not be missed, as it offers
fantastic views of the surrounding areas. For those looking for a special
dining experience, the Indian restaurant, Krishna, offers a delicious selection
of Indian cuisine, perfectly cooked, each dish delicately prepared and spiced. Lastly, there is the Sirwo resort located a few minutes away from the tented camp. The resort is a large hacienda-style building that lies in
beautifully manicured grounds, lined with flowers and indigenous trees, with the
Cherengany hills to the east and Mount Elgon to the west. Inside, there is a veranda bar, coffee shop, as well as a 100-seat state-of-the-art conference room. The grounds are perfect for Sunday afternoon
with your family or even for large-scale events, as the kitchen can cater for up
to 2,000 people. It is easy to constantly choose the same places to visit
when choosing where to go on holiday, but one of the best things about living
in Kenya is that there is so much to see and do. It’s perfectly alright to have a favourite
place to visit, but it is only by venturing somewhere new, somewhere different,
that we can discover some of the hidden gems our country holds. Crane Haven is one of these. Take a chance and
you never know, you might just find your heaven on earth.   For more information on Crane haven and the other resorts,
visit: Sirwoandcranes.com  