Shadrack Mose's election as  Kitutu Masaba MP "lacked credibility, accuracy and verifiability" and should be nullified, a petitioner told a court on Monday. In his final submissions, petitioner Justus Omiti's lawyer Stephen Ligunya said there were irregularities and that the election did not reflect the people's will. "The election and it's outcome cannot be said to be the true reflections of the will of the electorates." Ligunya added that SD cards showed the biometric registration of voters from Kisii and Migori counties, raising the possibility that outsiders may have participated in the August 8, 2017 vote. "All the irregularities that occurred shattered the foundation of the elections, rendering them fugitive, so they should be nullified, " he said. He alleged that the lack of results for 34 polling stations indicated "a deliberate scheme to deprive [the people of] the truth". He claimed more than 15,696 votes were affected. Justice James Makau is hearing the petition in Nyamira. But the IEBC, through lawyer Paul Lilan, told the court the petitioner did not call any witnesses from  the constituency to testify in his petition. Lilan said Omiti only relied on evidence by Dr Noah Akala, who is from Nairobi and is neither a registered Kitutu Masaba voter nor an agent for any of the candidates in the election. He added Akala was not at any of the 187 polling stations in the constituency on election day. Lilan further told the judge that the election was a true reflection of the people's will and that is was in line with the constitution, free, fair and credible. He objected the nullification saying the administrative errors were minor and that they could not have affected their final outcome. "An election cannot be nullified because of minor administrative breaches and irregularities. It can be nullified only if the irregularities can affect the outcome of the results." He maintained that an irregularity that cannot affect the final result should not be used to overturn the election, saying the errors were "so minor yet the election was nearly perfect". Lilan further said Akala was not an expert in any field as he did not present documents and noted his absence during elections. "Any witness who presents himself as an expert has to demonstrate his qualifications to the court, which the witness never did," Lilan said. The petition is unmerited since it is from an "ordinary voter who has no strong grounds of disturbing the election, he said, adding the petitioner should be ordered to pay the costs. Click here for the latest political stories