American-based
Kenyan journalist Peter Makori has accused Attorney General Githu Muigai of
frustrating his compensation for torture and illegal imprisonment. Makori was
awarded Sh5,053,671 in 2006, which has accumulated to about Sh7 million in
interest. He
claims his effort to get paid has been frustrated over the years, with the AG’s
office demanding that he forfeit close to Sh5 million of accrued interest on the
award, in order to get paid. Efforts
by the Star to get an explanation from the AG's office over the delay were
unsuccessful. “Ever
since the AG’s office was served with the court order to pay, officials at the
State Law Office have been demanding that I ‘negotiate’ the accrued interest.
The officials wrote to me in the recent past, demanding I accept Sh7 million
out of a possible Sh12 million,” Makori said. “I
rejected the offer because it amounts to extortion, and the AG has no powers
under any law to subject me to such negotiation,” Makori told the Star from the
US. Makori's
is among hundreds of pending settlements — mostly from former President Daniel
Moi’s era and the infamous Nyayo Torture Chambers — that lie in the State Law
Office, some of whose claimants have died. And even though he can barely walk
more than a decade later due to the torture, he is not giving up his stake
without a fight. HOW
HIS TROUBLES BEGAN Makori
was arrested about 15 years ago while reporting on the killing of two chiefs in
present-day Kisii county. He was later charged with the killing of an assistant
chief, who was found fatally shot in his house in Bokeire sublocation. He
claims Flying Squad officers tortured him while in their custody, to extract a
confession for a murder he insists he knew nothing about. After
spending almost 11 months in custody, Makori was released from Kodiaga Prison in Kisumu after the AG terminated his prosecution for lack of evidence. He
filed his complaint with the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. The
KNCHR Act, 2003, mandated the commission to constitute a quasi-judicial
tribunal to hear cases of human rights violations and award damages to the
victims. The
commission did so to hear his complaint. The tribunal found that the government
was liable for the journalist’s torture and illegal detention and awarded him
Sh5,053,671. After
the tribunal made its declaration of wrongdoing, Makori extracted the ruling
and filed it in the High Court in Nairobi, where it was adopted as a judgment
of the court. Retired
Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal directed the government to pay the awarded
sum together with the accrued interest. In
2013, Makori served the High Court order and decree for Sh8 million on the AG.
He was urged to negotiate the accrued interest but refused, saying it was
illegal. “The
AG is expected to uphold, maintain and protect the rule of law,” he says. “He
has no powers to vary, modify or in any way seek to twist a court order to suit
his whims. “He
is obligated under the law to pay the decreed amounts without question,” Makori
insists. A
series of correspondence between Makori’s advocates and the AG’s office reveals
the State Law Office's tenacious efforts to circumvent the court order. In
July 2013, Senior State Counsel Charles Mutinda wrote to Makori’s advocates,
requesting that they negotiate the accrued interest on the awarded sum, despite
the court order specifically directing the government to pay the compensation
together with the interest. “The
solicitor general had on 1st July 2013 advised that we pursue a negotiated
settlement with the Claimant. As such, I wrote to the Advocate for the Claimant
on 17th July 2013 (folio 40) and offered to have this matter settled, at
Sh5,053,671 being the amount awarded by the KNCHR tribunal without the accrued
interest,” Mutinda said. The
State Counsel further wrote, “On instructions of the Claimant, his advocates,
vide letter dated 22nd July 2013, rejected this offer for settlement and stated
that the award by the KNCHR was filed and adopted as a judgment of the High
Court and that there is no appeal against the judgment.” Mutinda
suggested that if the award cannot be paid, then the AG should consider filing
a second appeal in the High Court to challenge it. Makori
dismissed this proposal, stating that the AG’s office ought to know that its
right of appeal was exhausted more than 10 years ago. “The
Act in the repealed constitution, which established the then KNCHR, gave
specific timelines on when an aggrieved party of the quasi-judicial tribunal
ruling was to appeal. Where things stand, the AG’s office has no room to
wriggle itself out. They must pay the money with interest as directed by the
court or face further court action. “After
losing their appeal in the High Court, the AG’s office is using extralegal
means to have their way. “Either
they have no clue that court-ordered interest takes care of inflation unless
the compensation is honoured within a reasonable time, or they are guided with
impunity to continue holding the payment, hoping that I’d one day cave in to
their illegal demands.” OUT-OF-COURT
DEAL In
another curious development that shows poor coordination and confusion at the
AG’s office, State Counsel Mary Murugi wrote to Makori’s advocates on July 7,
2014, asking for an “out-of-court settlement” of the award. “Our
client is still amenable to pursue an out-of-court settlement on the above in a
bid to settle these matters once and for all, it is willing to offer your
client Sh7,000,000 in full and final settlement (sic).” In
a recent letter dated May 8, 2017, Murugi wrote to advocate Ken Ogetto, for
Makori, stating, “Our client is still amenable to pursue an out-of-court
settlement on the above matter. In a bid to reach an amicable settlement and on
a without prejudice basis, kindly quantify your client’s claim for our client’s
consideration.” Makori
firmly stated, “I have refused, and I’ll continue to refuse these illegal and
extortion overtures from the AG’s office. Even if it takes another 20 years to
have this matter settled, I am not ready to compromise on what I believe is
right and just. This is because the court did not say that interest on the
amounts shall be determined by the AG.” “The
office of the AG has no mandate under the law to vary a court order. They can
only appeal whatever they feel is questionable, but unfortunately, as it stands
now, all their appeal avenues are closed,” he saud. The
journalist accused the AG’s office of usurping powers of the High Court to try
and vary a court order, stating, “I cannot be party to extralegal mechanisms
being employed at the AG’s office to undermine a legitimate court order.” OTHER
VICTIMS BLACKMAILED? Makori
alleged that he was privy to a number of torture victims who have been
compelled to forfeit millions of their compensation money at the AG’s office
after being blackmailed by officials. “They threaten the victims that their
money will be withheld unless the claimants agree to a ‘negotiation’.” “I
am prepared to forgo the whole amount, if that is what it means to stand up for
what is right. Evil cannot be defeated in society unless good people sacrifice
for justice.” Makori
told the Star that two years ago, he sought the intervention of the office of
Chief Justice (Rtd) Willy Mutunga to have the AG honour the court order, but
Muigai set the CJ on a wild goose chase until the issue fizzled out. “I
petitioned the National Committee on the Administration of Justice — NCAJ —
based at the CJ’s office, but each time, the AG promised the CJ to have me see
him, I was given a runaround at the State Law Office until I gave up,” Makori
said. The
journalist said he is still under treatment for the injuries he suffered in the
hands of police almost 15 years ago. “I
have spent millions of shillings for treatment overseas, and therefore, the
Sh12 million I am entitled to will be just nothing compared to the lifelong
injuries I suffered.” LIFELONG
INJURIES Dr
Alvin Smith, a foot surgeon at Samuel U Rodgers Hospital in Kansas City,
Missouri, in the US, who treated the journalist, said, “Makori suffered
debilitating injuries and he shall live on constant medication for the rest of
his life.” In
a 2010 evaluation, Smith said: “Makori admitted to a severe physical assault that resulted in injuries to both lower extremities. The
patient admitted to being beaten in both feet with a wooden object by the
Kenyan police in 2003.” The
foot surgeon said the journalist “has experienced pain periodically on both
feet since that period. Makori experiences pain with palpation of the fifth
metatarsal heads of both feet. The pain radiates along the lateral aspect of
both feet in an ascending manner. “The
patient has taken multiple courses of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
medications, but he continues to experience pain. Makori suffers from chronic
inflammation of the soft tissue fractures, for example, muscles, tendons, and
nerves, due to this type of trauma. “Makori
has been informed that he may well experience this pain due to these injuries
for the rest of his life.”