Champions Telkom beat local rivals Strathmore University ‘Scorpions’ 1-0 at the ongoing Africa Club Championships at the Theodosia Akoh Stadium, Ghana to keep their title defence on course. Prior to the match, Scorpions were eyeing recovery following their 4-0 loss to Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) in their first match but could not find the much redemption against Telkom. On the other hand, Telkom, under Jos Openda, won their second match following a 5-0 whipping of Nigeria’s Yobe Desert in their opening match. The match saw Telkom regain supremacy over their rivals, who their ambitions to defend the Kenya Hockey union title without conceding. Scorpions scored twice in a 3-2 loss which ended Telkom’s run last year. In Accra, Telkom were on a hot quest from onset but Scorpions offered an equal repulsion to the threats posed by Openda’s charges. Telkom had their first goal of the day correctly disallowed for infringement on the half an hour mark. Lilian Aura had given Telkom the lead but her goal was disallowed. The two teams were headed for a barren draw util the 52nd minute when Audrey Omaido found the match winning goal with a grandeur field strike. Scorpions captain Yvonne Karanja bemoaned the few chances her side failed to bury. She said: “It was a tough match considering that we have been playing Telkom back in Kenya. We had many chances but we could not convert. We were better today compared to our first match which we lost by a huge margin. We are hopeful of positive results in our next match.” Scorpion’s head coach Meshack Senge said: “We have really improved. In our first match, we lost 4-0 and I think the costly mistakes we did were rectified. We still have a chance of progressing in the tournament since we have three more matches to play. We conceded a soft goal after playing well throughout. We are still within our objectives and losing two games does not mean we are out. We have played two big games and we hope for the best in our remainig three.” In another ladies encounter played prior to the Kenyan affair game, Kada Queen’s of Nigeria floored their compatriots Yobe Desert 1-0. Bomiegha Ikiriko was on target in the 54th minute. In the domestic front, Parkroad Badgers humiliated Western Jaguars 3-0 in a Premier League match played at the City Park yesterday. Goals from Andrew Kamau (17), Samuel Kariuki (27) and Philip Hanman were enough for Charles Kanyi s side to pick all the three points.