Energy CS Charles Keter has refuted claims that Kenya Power has been backdating electricity bills leading to the current inflated charges. Keter explained that the inflated bills currently being experienced by analogue customers is due to an upgrade in billing systems by the power supplier and is currently being resolved. “In the recent past, KPLC has estimated its bills, resulting in variations in billings. This was notable during the new system upgrade. The new system has enabled Kenya Power to get readings easily. The new billing will also allow a consumer to read their meter and upload on an app on their phone hence enhance billing currency,” he said. Kenya power has 6.4 million customers with 2.4 million customers still using old generation metres. Keter said deliberate and collective efforts to reduce electricty prices are being undertaken with the recent development being the introduction of the Time of Use Tariffs effective from December 1 last year. The time of use tariffs initiative he said has seen the reduction of tariffs during off-peak hours by 50 per cent for large power customers above applicable consumption threholds. “The initiative has seen increased use of electricity at off peak hours and reduction in thermal electricty generation as large custromers take advantage of the reduced tariffs,” he said They will connect SME’s, the 2.4 million customers, so that they can enjoy the 50 per cent tarrif meter. The tariff is currently being enjoyed by industrial and commercial users after the Energy Regulatory Commission said it would offer discounted tariffs for commercial and industrial users who operate from 11pm to 5am starting last month. The ministry will also be looking into harmonizing and having a standardized tariff so that all pre-paid customers can enjoy a tariff of Sh2.50/kwh. Kenya Power plans to introduce a mobile application where customers can upload pictures of their readings for accurate billing. The app will enhance transparency and efficiency. The fuel cost charge has remained stable between 2015 and 2017 despite variations in international prices of crude oil, low dam levels and fluctuations in foreign exchange. The FCC is at 4.35 /kwh since November 2017. ERC in consultation with energy sector stakeholders among them Kepsa, Kenya Association of Manufacturers, KPLC, Kengen and the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum agreed to keep the FCC at a set cost. Where actual computed FCC is above the set cost, the charge to customers is maintained at the set cost.