Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has asked Bungoma Governor Wyclliffe Wangamati to stop sacking county workers employed during his tenure. He criticised the governor’s administration for engaging in mass sacking of his former employees without concrete reason. Speaking in Bungoma at the weekend, the speaker said the major reason behind the sacking is because the workers supported him in the August election. “If they have failed to perform that’s their problem, but sacking them because they supported Jubilee is wrong,” Lusaka said. He questioned why Wangamati was sending the county employees home knowing they have nowhere else to find a job. “Most of these people are sole breadwinners in their families. Where does he expect them to go?” the former governor said. Sacking workers When Wangamati took over the office as the second governor he sacked all county executives then sent home the Public Service Board whose term had not expired. The members went to court challenging their dismissal. Wangamati could spend six months in jail and pay a Sh300,000 fine for ignoring a court order against interfering with the county PSB. The board, through its lawyer Calitus Shifoka, filed its case at the Kisumu Labour court, saying the governor disregarded the order issued on December 11 last year. Wangamati is to keep off the board’s activities until the case is determined. The board members are Gideon Sirai (chairman), Janet Manyasi, Peter Masengeli, Stephen Wesonga, Elizabeth Wanyonyi and Bonventure Wasikoy. Resident Moses Lukoye filed a petition at the Bungoma assembly that found the board guilty of corruption, nepotism and abuse office. Wangamati used the report from the assembly to fire the board. ‘I didn’t fire them’ Wangamati praised the county assembly for sending home the six members of the PSB. He said the board appointed by Lusaka was plagued by corruption and nepotism. Wangamati said the assembly’s move will allow creation of a new board. “I did not send the board home. It’s the members of the assembly, who were dissatisfied by its work,” he said at Kimaeti Catholic Church in Bumula constituency. A board member filed an application and the court directed the members to stay in office pending a ruling on February 5. The board’s tenure was expected to expire next year. The board and the county chief have been feuding over county appointments. Wangamati accused the board of demanding a Sh50,000 bribe from job applicants. It denied the claim. The county assembly’s Public Administration Committee, led by Naitiri Kabuyefwe MCA Joan Lukatiri, investigated the board. Lusaka promised Bungoma residents that despite him being the Senate speaker he will still visit to complete unfinished projects. He asked local politicians to stop fighting and focus on solving county problems.