Kenya national women’s polo team stunned the United States of America in a spectacular comeback display to win the Statehood Day International tournament at the Imphal grounds, Manipur State, India yesterday. The tournament which also dubbed as Bombay Stock Exchange Cup — a royal wedding prize — saw Kenya thwart USA’s efforts to win 4-5. Kenya got off to a very rough start but the lineup, sponsored by India’s ministry of tourism — Incredible India, did not let that destabilise them. Kenya won Sh51,000 while USA were awarded Sh34,000 but both teams donated the money to a kitty meant for the conservation of endangered Manipur ponies. “I am so proud of each of the players. What a fantastic team of ladies. To come and win a tournament against three other continents with some tough teams was quite a feat. We are really honoured to represent Kenya and fly the flag high and to leave with the cup was a bonus. Thank you Manipur and Incredible India for making this possible,” said Rowena Stichbury, the Nairobi Polo Club vice captain. “We seemed to have stronger horses in the second half of the game and were able to catch up then put in extra goals at the end,” intimated Stichbury, the team leader.” Marissa Wells scored all of USA’s goals, smashing in a double in the first chukka to lead Kenya 2-0. She then added one to stretch their lead in the second chukka as Kenya continued to struggle. But Kenyan captain Tiva Gross converted a penalty shot to lessen the deficit at 3-1. Playing off handicap two, Gross smacked a big shot from the centre of the field which sailed through inching Kenya closer at 3-2 heading to the break. Each team has 10 horses for 2 chukkas and at half time they swap them to ensure no one has a horse advantage. Upon resumption and determined to extend their lead, USA — through Wells ­— scored a fourth goal but Imogen Voorspuy- handicap zero- quickly replied from the field for 4-3. Trailing by a solitary goal upon embarking on the last chukka, Kenya came out with guns blazing and cut out the USA team off their goal area with Kaila and Tiva shutting the door. With just a minute left to the last bell, Nicola Barlow (0) hit in the equalizer. Stichbury stole the ball immediately the umpire threw it in and a fast and furious chase ensued towards USA’s goal area. Millar connected well with the ball and slotted a beautiful under-the-neck shot through the goal putting Kenya in the lead as the final bell rung. “It has been my absolute pleasure to have played with such a superb Kenyan ladies team at the birthplace of polo. There determination and fight was incredible. I am so proud of the Kenyan ladies side and playing together to get Kenya the win,” said Gross.