The Kikuyu Council of Elders have urged NASA leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka to shelve their swearing-in plans and instead give dialogue a chance. The council's chairman Wachira Kiago said NASA's planned activities were taking the country back into politics. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to agree to dialogue with the opposition. “Raila boycotted elections last year. For the country to move forward, we must give dialogue a chance because Kenyans are tired of politics,” Kiago said. Speaking at the Kabiru-ini Showground on Saturday, Kiago said Raila and Kalonzo will be held responsible for any blood shed because of their actions. Kiago spoke during the installation of David Muthoga as the Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman for Nyeri county. He said  said the two leaders should show Kenyans the right way to live
since they have grandchildren but not showing them how to shed blood in the
country. “Let Raila and Musyoka ensure that no other blood is shed in this
country. The blood that was shed by our forefathers is enough during the
struggle for independence,” he added. Kiago also said the two leaders should allow President and his cabinet
to serve Kenyans since Kenyans are tired of empty politicking. He was speaking at Kabiru-ini Show grounds, Nyeri County on Saturday during
the installation ceremony of David Muthoga who has been installed as the Kikuyu
Council of Elders Nyeri County Chairman. Muthoga replaced the late chairman John Mugecha who died last year
after long illness. Jubilee MPs present who included Ngunjiri Wambugu (Nyeri Town),
Gichuhi Mwangi (Tetu), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya), Samuel Gachobe (Subukia),
former Kibwezi MP Phillip Kaloki and Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and a host of MPs were present. also urged
Odinga to shelve the plans of swearing in saying it is time to serve Kenyans
since time for politics are over. The MPs also said there was need to go back to the roots of the Kikuyu
community with MP Wambugu saying the boy child has been forgotten in the
society. Muthoga vowed to bring together Nyeri leaders to ensure unity among them.  