Defending champions Telkom launch their Africa Club Championship title defence against Nigerian side Yobe Desert as the 29th edition of the continental show start at Theodosia Okoh Stadium, Ghana today. The on-form Kenyan side, fresh from winning their 20th domestic league without tasting defeat will be out to retain their African crown which has attracted 12 clubs from four countries. Jos Openda’s charges are pooled alongside local rivals Strathmore University ‘Scorpions’, Ghananian duo of Police and Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) and Nigerian pair of Yobe Desert and Kada Queens. Telkom will be aiming for their tenth African title and their sixth in a row. Scorpions launch their campaign against GRA before accosting Telkom on Sunday. Meshack Senge’s girls will rattle Police on Monday followed by matches against Kada Queens and Yobe Desert on Wednesday and Thursday respectively. It’s the clash between Scorpions and Telkom which highlights the match of the weekend where the duel will bring two experienced tacticians and who are well versed with the showpiece. Scorpions ruined Telkom’s ambition of finishing the local league without conceding when the university side broke Telkom’s run of 12 matches. Before jetting out to Ghana, Senge said: “We are not going as flower girls to the championships. We are going as contenders. We have played Telkom for many years and we know how to beat them. The threat lies in the other teams in our pool but we will give our best.” Scorpions won silver at the 2013 edition and will be eyeing their first continental glory. The Kenyan men representative duo of Butali Warriors and Strathmore University Gladiators pulled out of the tour due to scarcity of funds. Meanwhile, eight matches have been lined up in the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) both men and women premier league action. Today at City Park, winless and relegated side University of Nairobi plays USIU-A Spartans while Chase Amira confronts JKUAT. In the men’s league,Kenyatta University Vultures entertain Nairobi Sikh Union while Nakuru Hockey Club hosts Western Jaguars at Nakuru. On Sunday, Butali Warriors are lined to play Parklands before paving way for Sikh Union who will complete their weekend double against Technical University. Parkroad Badgers will play Jaguars in the final men’s league tie of the day. In the ladies league, Spartans will wrap their weekend double against Chase Amira.