Kajiado
governor Joseph ole Lenku has reiterated his warning for KWS to get stray elephants out of Maasais' farms. Lenku said on Wednesday that Kenya Wildlife Service does not have an option. “I am giving them two days to drive their elephants from our farms, failure of which my people will defend themselves. The jumbos have left a trail of destruction wherever they have passed." He addressed the press flanked by Kajiado acting county commissioner David Kipkemei and
Mashuuru deputy county commissioner Stephen Nyakundi. The
trio spoke to armed Maasai morans in Imbuko Location of Mashuuru sub-county upon
landing from a KWS chopper. The
morans, who killed two jumbos from Amboseli National Park in Imbuko Location
last Saturday, had warned KWS against letting the animals stray into their
farms. Their
leader, Peter Lesalaon, noted their children stopped going to schools "because the elephants have strayed all over the area", from Amboseli and Chulu
Hills. Imbuko lies along the wildlife corridor through which animals migrate from
Amboseli to Tsavo National Park at this time of the year. The
morans claimed they killed seven jumbos on Saturday but Kajiado county warden Dickson Korir said only two animals were dead. “We are investigating the causes of the deaths. It is too early to
apportion blame to anyone," he said, but confirmed that the animals had invaded farms and destroyed property and plants. "The ongoing drought has forced wild animals out of parks and they are now moving in
hordes to private farms in search of water and grazing,” said Korir. Speaking from Mombasa
on Saturday, Lenku told KWS to fence its parks to reduce human-wildlife conflicts. “Thirty seven people have
been killed in the last one year, while many more have been maimed by these
animals, yet KWS has given affected families the deaf ear on compensation," he said. More on this: Lenku asks KWS to fence parks to end human-wildlife conflict Late last year, the governor accused rangers of keeping herders from grazing their animals in parks. His argument at the time was that locals had been hosting zebras and other herbivorous without complaining. Click here for the latest political stories