Embakasi East MP Babu Owino has been released after spending two nights in Parklands police cells. Babu was arrested by Flying Squad detectives outside Parliament Buildings on Friday afternoon over assault and malicious damage to property allegations. But the MP linked his incarceration to a petition filed against his elections win. Read: Babu Owino arrested for 'attempt to overthrow government', assault The first time MP was released after interventions by other legislators including Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja. "In as much as he has committed a crime, let him be charged before the courts. This notion and culture that you can arrest someone for an offence he committed a week ago on a Friday and keep him in cells for two days is playing politics and we are telling the police to leave politics to politicians," Sakaja said. Other MPs who were at the Parklands Police station to demand Babu's release were Makadara's George Alandwa,  Mathare's Anthony Oluoch and Homa Bay woman rep Gladys Wanga. Sakaja condemned the political intimidation of Babu and warned police to remain professional. Sakaja said days, when police would put a suspect in incarceration for days, are bygone. "If he needs to be dealt with politically leave it to us. We can deal with him but this issue of putting someone in cells for two or three days is not right in Kenya of today. He should be released then charged in court and let him go through the criminal justice system." Sakaja said criminal justice system should not be used to play politics "even us in Jubilee don't want it to be used. If you keep quiet because it is someone in NASA tomorrow it will be someone in Jubilee". Oluoch said the arrest and detention of Babu is politically intended to make him look a very violent person before the eyes of the judge hearing a petition against his election win. NASA leader Raila Odinga accompanied by Senate Minority leader Moses Wetrangula had on Friday stormed the station demanding Babu's release but the police refused to free him. The two leaders also condemned the arrests terming it just political gimmicks by his Jubilee rivals amid efforts to intimidate him. Also read; University of Nairobi students protest MP Babu Owino's arrest  Click here for the latest political news  