Police in Germany are seeking a Tanzanian national over the beastly murder of a Kenyan medic last week. The police have released the name of the suspect as Halfan Ally Halfan. The officers believe the suspect is directly linked to the death of 27-year-old- Mary Waithera Kamathi. Read: Kenyan stabbed to death in Germany, mum wants justice According to the Germany press, the 32-year-old suspect has since gone into hiding but investigators exuded confidence that is was a matter of time before they caught up with him. “The investigators are looking for one suspect Halfan Halfan Ally over the murder and the autopsy has revealed that Kenyan lady was killed by blows to the head,” said one of the officers. Confirming the police reports, the deceased younger brother Samuel Njuguna said that the suspect who is on the run had been employed by his sister in her shop. He said that the suspect on losing his job last year got a job from Waithera where he would also sleep as he sought for another opportunity. “The suspect was well known to my sister but they fell out as he was not delivering in terms of sales before the murder took place,” he said. Njuguna said that police had released the body after the postmortem adding that plans were underway for him to fly to Germany to organize how the body would be flown back. “I have applied for a visa in the Germany embassy and my prayer is that it will be approved so that I can fly out and help organize how the body of my sister will be flown back,” he said. This came as his family in Naivasha said that they would be holding a Harambee on Sunday in their home in Kayole estate to assist in the burial ceremony. The family spokesman Simon Wanyoike said that the family did not have the financial muscle to fly the body back “From our budget, we require over Sh1.5m to ferry the body back home and give it a decent burial and we are asking our good president Uhuru Kenyatta to come to aid,” he said. Following the incident, Kenyans in Germany have organized a memorial service for the deceased on Saturday as they make plans to help ferry the body to her home in Naivasha. The lifeless body of Waithera was found lying in her shop in Essen town on Wednesday last week evening. Dressed in a white top, the body which was covered in blood had wounds near the chest and head allegedly inflicted by a sharp object. Also read: Family of nurse murdered in Germany appeal for cash to fly body home