National carrier Kenya Airways has sued the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency, seeking to recover Sh386 million it paid to the taxman as VAT arising from a Sh1.9 billion land deal in 2016. Kenya Airways says it was forced to remit to the Kenya Revenue Authority Sh316.8 million in VAT to avoid penalties and interest accumulating after the October 20, 2016 deadline, following Kemsa's failure to pay up. The airline sold the land to Kemsa to inject cash into its coffers, shortly after reporting a record Sh26.2 billion loss for the year ended March 2016. The Kemsa deal was part of KQ's plans to raise Sh14.6 billion through sale of idle land and leasing of part of its aircraft fleet. KQ has now asked High Court judge Rachael Ngetich to issue a default judgment, as Kemsa is yet to respond or even enter appearance in the suit, three months after the airline moved to court. “On several ocassions, Kenya Airways has tried to have the issue resolved through meetings and correspondence but Kemsa has refused or neglected the same. Despite demand and notice and intention to sue, Kemsa has refused or neglected to pay the stated amount,” KQ says in court filings. “Kenya Airways avers that Kemsa having failed to pay the VAT, by compulsion of the law, Kenya Airways paid the VAT on October 19, 2016. Kenya Airways' claim against Kemsa is therefore for the sum of Sh316,800,000,” the airline adds. KQ admits that the payment of VAT was its obligation, but insists that the sale agreement with Kemsa provided that the Sh1.9 billion price for the land was exclusive of any taxes. Initial reports indicated that Kenya Airways was to earn Sh400 million for the sale of five acres to Kemsa. But the court case has now revealed that the airline sold five hectares (14.5 acres) to the state corporation. The land had for years been rented to Kemsa, which latched onto an opportunity to purchase the prime property in Embakasi when KQ put it up for sale. The sale agreement between KQ and Kemsa provided for arbitration in the event of a dispute. But KQ insists that its qualms with Kemsa can only be resolved if the state corporation refunds it the Sh316.8 million paid to the taxman. The national carrier also wants Justice Ngetich to order a 14 per cent annual interest accumulation on the sums claimed until Kemsa refunds it in full.