Traders and consumers in Nyamira have criticised the ban on plastic bags four months ago, saying it was rushed by the state without giving cheaper alternatives. Businesspeople in various markets in Nyamira said coping without the plastic carriers has been tough since the ban took effect on August 28 last year. They said the plastic bags cost as cheap as Sh5,  buy the alternative carriers are expensive. Sometimes they cost more than the goods a customer has bought. “A customer can come to my shop and buy vegetables for Sh20, yet the bag costs Sh30 or Sh50. The bags are too much expensive. Small-scale traders are not making any profits. “Consumers cannot afford the bags. Our businesses are deteriorating because most times a customer needs to carry some items home but because there are no cheap bags, they buy nothing,” grocery owner Jane Omosa said. Vendors who sell sliced pineapples in Kebirigo market, Nyamira, say their businesses have gone down since the ban was forced. afraid of hefty fines They cannot wrap them in the polythene paper to avoid the government’s fine. They say their sales have since gone done, as most customers doubt the hygiene of the pineapples, which are often exposed. “My business has gone down since the ban took effect. I used to wrap the sliced pineapples in polythene bags, but I have since opted to use improvised sticks, which a customer uses to hold the pineapple. “Sometimes the fruit falls before even the customer eats it. I am forced to give him-her another piece, and that’s a loss. Some customers are not comfortable with the way the pineapples are exposed. They worry that the fruit may be contaminated,” one pineapple vendor told the Star yesterday. Prior to the ban, data showed that up to 86,000 bags were being sold or used in Nairobi daily while Sh24 million was used countrywide on them every month. Plastic bags are an environmental hazard. They take up to 100 years to decompose, they block drainages, they pollute rivers and destroy marine life. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, there will be more plastics than fish in seas by 2050 as over 8 million plastics leak to the sea every year, posing a danger to marine life.