The Murang’a government has launched a voluntary community nursing programme to offer free services in the rural areas. The programme was launched on Tuesday. Retired nurses and trained but unemployed nurses will be enrolled to offer services. The nurses will receive a monthly facilitation fee of Sh8,000 and will complement the work of community health workers. The county government aims to register about 300 nurses. The county government is already working with more than 1,000 community health workers who receive monthly stipends of as much as Sh4,000. Speaking during the launch of the programme in Murang’a town, Governor Mwangi wa Iria said it will greatly improve the general health of the community and decongest hospitals.  Wa Iria said many people, especially those with chronic illnesses, suffer silently in their homes with little or no knowledge of how to handle their sicknesses. He said the nursing programme will help the poor who are unable to care for their sick or those who are neglected by their families. “The rich hire private nurses to take care of their sick, but the poor suffer because of financial constraints,” Wa Iria said. The governor said most people with chronic illnesses suffer to the extent of developing bed sores, because of lack of care. He said his aim is to establish a strong community health service providing home care. This, he said, will reduce the burden of offering treatment services in hospitals and save lives. “This programme will drastically reduce the number of people trickling into our hospitals every day and reduce the costs of medical services,” Wa Iria said. He said retired nurses have a wealth of experience, which should not go to waste as people suffer. The governor said the nurses will work with the community health workers to identify the most critical cases. The nurses will have free NHIF cover for their own families, he said. The two groups of workers, volunteers and staff, will enrol as many residents as possible into NHIF.  Wa Iria said the county government plans to start by registering 40,000 homes with the health cover. People who suffer from chronic diseases will be given priority. “This will cover at least 20 per cent of our population.Then we will work to ensure every home is covered in the next five years,” Wa Iria said.