Health minister Cleopa Mailu has explained that shisha was banned for reasons including curbing the spread of infectious diseases. In an affidavit filed in court on Monday, the Cabinet Secretary noted shisha-smoking is a gateway to using hard drugs such as heroine. Mailu says he wants a case lodged against him by a group of shisha smokers and importers dismissed as the ban did not result from by ill motives or bias, but the need to secure Kenyans' health. “The decision was based on the greater public interest of enforcing public health and protecting people from harmful effects and practices associated with shisha consumption," he said. “Available statistics on the use of shisha have revealed severe acute and chronic health effects on consumers and exposed non-consumers." The CS said the ministry has taken steps to create awareness and educate the public on effects of smoking the substance to protect them. He said the manufacture, importation, distribution, sale and the consumption of shisha is not licensed in Kenya and thus, importers and promoters cannot claim violation of their rights. “The ban was purely driven by public health interest, which is the golden thread that runs through all laws cited. None of the applicants have demonstrated that they are licensed by any regulatory authority in Kenya” he says. On January 15, the court will rule on whether to lift the ban imposed by the government, pending the determination of the case. More on this: Shisha ban remains as court declines to lift Mailu order Dr Jackson Kioko, the director of medical services, noted the water-piped tobacco is harmful not only to smokers but also to non- smokers and that it affects vital organs such as the brain and lungs, leads to blockage of arteries and can cause tuberculosis. Kioko further told the court that shisha contains numerous cancer-causing agents, including carcinogen, nitrosamines, polyaromatic, hydrocarbons, volatile aldehydes, benzene, heavy metals and addictive agents such as nicotine. The director said other non-communicable deceases brought by smoking shisha include cancer, high blood pressure, stroke, heart attack, asthma, bronchitis and derangement of the metabolism of fat and sugar. Read: Shisha ban: A doctor's view on why you should drop that 'dirty' pipe Click here for the latest political stories