DP William Ruto has called on all road users to be cautious to prevent the loss of lives in road accidents.   Ruto said while the government has a role to play on road safety, it is the responsibility of all Kenyans to be careful as they use roads. Police constable Casmel Ndege lost control of his bike and crushed on Prof. Wangari Maathai road on Saturday afternoon.  Read: Ruto's motorcycle outrider dies in accident on way to funeral Ruto's entourage was heading to the funeral of the mother of Mount Kenya University Board of Trustees chairman Simon Gicharu the late Alice Gicharu. Ruto condoled the family of the fallen cop during the funeral  "Deepest condolences to the family and friends of Constable Casmel Ndege who has passed on in the line of duty. He was a gallant, hardworking and dedicated professional. We celebrate him for his selfless service to this country. May his soul rest in peace." The echoes of Ruto's call for extra caution on the roads had barely subsided when an accident in Emali in Makueni county claimed three lives.  Read: Three die in Emali accident Ruto said while in the past the government was blamed for road carnage because of potholes, he said most roads are currently in good shape.   “We cannot solve the problem in our roads and save lives of Kenyans by blaming one another. While the government has a role to play on road safety, drivers, passengers and the police also have roles to play to ensure safety on our roads.  "I would like to ask all road users; pedestrians, drivers and passengers to be careful as they use these roads so that we can stop the loss of lives,” he said [VIDEO] Uhuru orders NTSA off roads, says traffic cops in charge  He told traffic police officers that blame games between them and NTSA can no longer be at play since officers from the authority were last week ordered off the roads by President Uhuru Kenyatta.  "They (police) should take charge and ensure that everybody observes traffic rules on our roads to ensure we don’t lose lives anymore," Ruto said.  The DP warned politicians interfering with the ongoing teacher transfers that they risk going to jail noting that teachers should be ready to work in any part of the country. He urged teachers to support the new curriculum which seeks to rid the country of ethnicity. Read: Arrest locals blocking transfer of school heads, Matiang’i orders cops Click here for the latest political news          