More than 10,000 Baringo children may drop out of school due to drought that results in acute water and food shortages. Another 30,000 residents are facing starvation, the main reason being crop failure due to prolonged droughts. There have also been claims of political interference with the government's response. A spot check by the Star on Monday found Baringo North residents grappling with poverty, hunger and water shortage. Pupils of 30 schools across the county had not reported back. Many spend their time helping their parents with chores which include herding animals, trekking long distances to fetch water from seasonal rivers and collecting wild fruits due to lack of food. Reuben Aengwo, a parent at Cheptigit Primary school in Kabosgei, Kerio location, said half of the pupils were still at home. “The school once had class eight pupils but due to harsh drought, learning is only up to class three. All those in the upper classes dropped out." Aengwo said their crops failed, during the drought from last July, and that thousands of livestock died. “These are our main sources of livelihood. The worsening situation also makes it difficult for parents to pay their children's secondary school fees." He appealed to the government for a school feeding programme in arid and semi-arid areas so children can continue learning. Kabosgei location Chief Richard Chepcheng said the government promised to intervene but that there had been delays. Chepcheng urged parents to take their children to school, saying everything will be done to keep them there. Joshua Cheptarus, who is Baringo executive secretary of the Kenya National Union of Teachers, said tutors should help mobilise pupils who dropped out and encourage those still in school. “Their future is at risk so leaders should see to it that each one of them remains in school. Affected schools in Tiaty sub-county and along the Kerio Valley include Maramar, Ayatya, Marigut, Kukui, Turbei, Kinyach, Chesangich, Cheptigit, Kampinyasi, Kombosang, Kapterit, Torlokwonin and Murterit. Those in Baringo North include Yatya, Chemoe, Kalabata, Kapturo, Chepkesin, Kapkomon, Rondinin, Chepkoi, Chepkwel and Moinonin. In Baringo South, Arabal, Kapndasum, Nyimbei, Chebinyiny, Kiserian, Sirata and Eldume schools were among those affected. Click here for the latest political news