There has been speculation among government analysts over the role and relevance of tribalism in Kenya’s political appointments.  Tribalism is an evil spirit that stunts democratic advancement. One cannot help but notice steadily rise in tribal hegemony in government and private sector. Why would a native feel proud of his tribe and feel more of his tribe than a citizen of Kenya? It is because of the manifested tribalism in all spectra of life. A poorly balanced government kills the national character of a state, the traits of the people in their behaviour, attitude and aptitude towards work and national needs.  Tribal appointments and promotions, without merit, are detrimental to a country’s growth. The quality of government depends on intellectuals and performers. Unfortunately, most of these appointments are a fulfillment of promises made during campaigns. If the President appoints from those considered enemies of the locals, it brews more trouble than curing it. It further makes it difficult for the government to pursue its policies. County governments are not spared.  Some institutions are a product of enduring tribal loyalties. Heads of such institutions are tribal lords, who perpetuate retribution impeding the formation of modern civil institutions. Same institutions are elements of suppression of political rivals. In some countries, use of police in maintaining law and order has led to loss of many lives.  Tribal interests have also played a major role in armed conflict and civil unrest across the continent. A good example is our neighbour South Sudan.  The ruling community there comes from the school of thought that believes it is only them who can rule. Armed conflict results in disintegration of the state structure, leading to obsolete checks and balances. This fosters an environment of absolute power resting on the Executive and by extension to the Executive tribe. Consequently, the national government is viewed as an outside force that is often hostile and not relevant to affairs of the country.  Regional diversity for appointments in national government is a requirement in the Constitution but appointing authorities have ignored many of these provisions. Tribalism and cronyism are an illusion of loyalty at the expense of quality leadership. A family network will only serve the interest of that family. Never will it serve the interest of a majority. The quality of leadership therefore determines the nature and extent of power that a government can use for securing its interests.  Representative leadership of a nation is an important human element of national power, without which our democracy will never grow.   Ngala is a member of the Public Relations Society of Kenya