The Busia government has
introduced fish cage culture in Busia in a bid to save Lake Victoria, whose
fish population is dwindling due to overfishing, poor fishing methods,
pollution and climate change. The project
will also go a long way in putting an end to arbitrary arrests of Kenyan
fishermen, who go to fish on the Ugandan side of the lake. It is
supported by the Finnish Government through the Programme for Agriculture
and Livelihood in Western Communities. Bukoma Beach
in Bunyala West ward, Budalang’i constituency, received 18 fish cages, each
stocked with 2,000 fingerlings. The county water ambulance was on hand to take
dignitaries to Munaka, about 10km from Bukoma beach, where the cages
are positioned. Fisheries director
Timothy Odende said the county will introduce 60 more fish cages in other
beaches in Bunyala and Samia subcounties, which will be managed by the
Beach Management Units chairmen. He said the
fish cage project was introduced to reduce pressure on the lake. “We
shall have two days in a week where the fishermen will not
interfere with the lake, to give it a breather.” GOOD HARVEST The fish
cages will increase fish stock and help traders supply to the
readymade market in Nairobi, which had long eluded them. Two of the
remaining fish cages will accommodate the tilapia fish from the
18 cages as they grow bigger. The first fish
cage will be ready for harvesting after six months, with a single fish cage expected to
produce at least 1,800 fish, which is equivalent to 720kg. “If the
farmers get good harvest, they can raise about Sh216,000 from
one cage, and this will translate to about Sh3.9 million,” Odende
said, adding that fish farmers from other parts of
the county not bordering the lake can also take part. The county government
has assured the fish cage farmers that it will outsource a firm that
will offer technical management services, with the BMUs providing
security. For ownership and sustainability of the project, the BMUs
will contribute towards the payment of the caretakers’ fees. The key objective of
the fish cage farming project is improving the livelihoods of the fish
farmers by enabling them to meet their household needs, as
well as other socio-economic needs. GEAR CONFISCATED The project
is therefore a big relief to Kenyan fishermen. For a long time, they have suffered
a lot in the hands of Uganda marine officers, who confiscate their boats and
fishing gears. The officials have
also been accused of compelling the fishermen to eat raw fish, or else they’ll be
tortured and even killed and eventually thrown in Lake Victoria. Beaches where
fishermen have been victimised along Lake Victoria include Marenga, Mulukoba,
Omena and Bukoma in Port Victoria, Budalang’i constituency, and Bumbe in
Funyula constituency. Scores of fishermen dread venturing in the lake for fear
of being ambushed by Uganda marine police. Majority of
the unlucky fishermen whose boats and fishing gears are confiscated are always
fined heftily to the tune of Sh10,000 or else their boats will not be
released until they pay the fine. The harassment has been going on for a long time, despite the intervention of former Budalangi legislator and currently the Labour Party of Kenya leader Ababu Namwamba. Ababu has been at the forefront in ensuring a peaceful and harmonious co-existence between the fishing communities from the two sister countries through dialogue with Ugandan authorities. The
stalemate had further been worsened by the current shortage of fish in the
lake, which forced scores of fishermen to venture into the interior to cast their fishing nets and catch
more fish.