The price of a 2kg packet of maize flour could go up to Sh200 by March, millers have said. Currently, a 2kg packet of maize flour is retailing at between Sh110 and Sh115. Peter Kuguru, the chairman of the United Grain Millers Association, on Monday, said the supply of maize from the North Rift is decreasing and what is available could last until next month. “We have two million bags of maize currently at the Strategic Grain Reserve against a monthly demand of three million.This will not be enough. This means millers will have to rely on imports from the neighbouring countries like Uganda and Tanzania,” he said. Read: Cost of living to soar as maize flour prices go up, report shows Kurugu said there is little maize in the local market and some farmers could be hoarding the grains in anticipation of better prices. A 90kg bag of maize is currently selling at between Sh3,000 and Sh3,200, but a report released last week by the Famine Early Warning System Network shows the price is likely to increase to Sh3,900 by May. This might lead to the cost of living to go up in the next four months, forcing consumers to dig deeper into their pockets to buy the basic commodities. Kuguru said even though the National Cereals and Produce Board is buying maize from farmers at Sh3,200, some farmers prefer to sell to traders at a lower price of Sh2,700, since traders buy in cash unlike the Board, which does not pay immediately. He also said millers sometimes shy away from buying maize from Uganda, as its quality is not good. Kuguru said the maize is usually not clean and the grains are small unlike those from Tanzania, whose quality if good but slightly expensive due to the border crisis. Dr Johnstone Irungu, the director of crops management from the Ministry of Agriculture, said the government is planning to undertake an assessment on the available stock of food, especially maize in the country by mid next month. “The NCPB is still buying maize from farmers and once the assessment had been done, the government will advise on what action should be taken in case of a maize shortage,” Irungu said. Millers alone ‘can’t sustain’ the Sh90 maize flour price Also read: Millers alone ‘can’t sustain’ the Sh90 maize flour price  Click here for the latest political news      