A Nairobi court has allowed the DPP to tender evidence through a video conference in the 59.6 million Euros (Sh7.5bn) Anglo-leasing case from any court in the United Kingdom. Senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku allowed the DPP to change the venue from the Kenya High Commission in the UK. The case will now be heard in any court in line with the UK laws. State counsel Victor Mule told the court that the laws of UK does not allow the video conference to be done from the Kenya High Commission. He said that following the new development, the prosecution will first bond local witnesses to testify in the case before setting the next date of hearing the video link evidence. Earlier, the magistrate had granted the prosecution application to adduce evidence of some of the remaining witnesses who are from Switzerland, USA, and Australia among others. They are Bradley Charles Birkenfeld, a citizen of the Unites States of
America and Professor Jason Sharman, an Australian national and resident
of the United Kingdom currently working at Cambridge University. Also
expected to testify is Srinivisan Ramachandran, an Indian national currently residing in Switzerland. "The Office of the DPP and EACC to make arrangements for the witnesses to testify from the Kenya High Commission in the UK," Mutuku said in earlier orders. Assistant DPP Nicholas Mutuku had filed the application saying the witnesses the prosecution intends to call have evidence of importance in guiding and assisting the court to reach a decision in the case. The prosecutor had informed the court that the witnesses have been in communication with EACC and have confided that owing to busy schedules and security concerns, they are unable to travel to Kenya and testify physically in court. Mutuku also said that the fact that the evidence is taken by video link, this does not amount to taking evidence in camera. She noted that the accused will be present in an open court, and properly represented adding that the public will also be allowed to attend in open court and follow proceedings. "I find that the integrity of the proceedings shall not be compromised since the witnesses will be examined as required by the law, and the court will have the opportunity to see the demeanor of the witnesses," the magistrate said. Mutuku said in her view of the provisions of Section 63A of the Evidence Act, she finds that the law allows Kenyan courts to take evidence by way of video conferencing or teleconferencing. "During the tendering of evidence by video link, the court will not move from its current jurisdiction but only witnesses will testify outside the jurisdiction." The three witnesses are expected to testify in a case where former finance minister the late David Mwiraria, three former PSs Joseph Magari, Dave Mwangi and David Onyonka,and businessmen Rasmi Chamanlal and Deepak Kumar and Chamanlal Kamani have been charged with a conspiracy to defraud the government Euros 59,688, 250 through a suppliers financing agreement for computerisation of security, law and order system. In the case, former government officials who are on trial are alleged to have signed a contract with Infotalent Limited which is said to be not registered in Kenya on behalf of the government. All the accused persons have another Anglo leasing case where they are accused of conspiracy to defraud the government Euros 40 Million (Sh3.8billion)/ The case is pending before another court. The defence, through senior counsel Ahmednasir Abullahi, had strongly opposed the application saying the Chief Justice has to gazette regulations for video conferencing, which he has not. "That the so called Anglo-leasing cases have a long history in Kenya. They are matters close to the hearts many Kenyans and ought to be litigated orally, due to the huge public interest they attract," Ahmednasir said. He also submitted that the witness cannot be allowed to attend court just a matter of choice in criminal proceedings adding that a trial cannot be conducted at the convenience of witnesses. Several current and former government officials have since testified in the case. Also read: Sh6.8bn paid to Anglo-Leasing type companies never recovered - Githongo Click here for the latest political news   