Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu is under investigations over his remarks that people from other ethnic communities should not seek leadership positions in the county. NCIC chairman Francis Kaparo said the utterances went against the spirit of the Constitution which advocates for non-discrimination of Kenyans on tribal lines. "We wish to remind Kenyans that equality, non-discrimination, equity, fairness, transparency, accountability, diversity and meritocracy are values that have to be observed not only by the national government but also the 47 county governments," he said in a statement on Wednesday. On Tuesday, Waititu urged Kiambu residents to reject "foreigners" seeking leadership positions in the county and prevent an inflow of "outsiders" who he said vote for the "foreigners" during elections. Kiambu county is a cosmopolitan region although is largely dominated by members of the Kikuyu community. The county elected an Asian and a Luo during the August 8 polls. The governor is locked in a war of words with Kahawa MCA Cyrus Omondi. The ward rep won the seat on a Jubilee ticket. But Waititu, who is popularly known as Babayao, has been accusing him of forming vigilantes in the county. "We will never allow it (elect non-Kikuyus) to happen again," Waititu said during a forum on county bursaries at Kiambu Institute of Science and Technology. However, Kaparo said the governor’s remarks are unfortunate because every Kenyan has a right to live and work anywhere. "In addition, Kenyans of all ethnic backgrounds have a right to seek leadership positions and undertake business or employment ventures wherever they wish." "Nonetheless, we urge the affected communities to remain calm as the Commission concludes investigations on the matter," he said. It remains to be seen if the investigations will amount to any action from the Commission which has been taunted for being a 'toothless dog'. Despite numerous tribal and hateful remarks from various politicians in the run-up to last year’s elections, not a single case has ever been prosecuted by the commission. Kiambu was put on the spot after MCAs passed a motion requiring businesses, public and private institutions to source 70 per cent of its workforce locally. The assembly said it would carry out an audit and any firm or business found to have contravened the new law would lose their licenses. They said the law was meant to guarantee locals their jobs which were being taken by “outsiders” who reside in the cosmopolitan county. Read: Kiambu MCAs pass motion compelling firms, institutions to hire 70% locals Also read: NGOs council slams Kiambu county over motion to employ 70% locals Click here for the latest political news      