At least 1.4 per cent of Kenyans employed in the manufacturing sector are likely to lose their jobs to automation,a World Bank study has revealed. Dubbed ‘Trouble in the making? Future of manufacturing led development’, the report said increasing adoption of industrial automation, advanced robotics, smart factories, the internet of things, and 3D printing are transforming the manufacturing process, slicing employment opportunities in the market. “The use of new technologies to produce traditional manufactured goods will be disruptive in developing economies – whether they are using the new technologies or not,” said Mary Hallward-Driemeier, senior economic advisor, World Bank Group’s Trade and Competitiveness Global Practice. The study explained that unlike in the past where manufacturing has been driving productivity and jobs for unskilled workers, in future, the sector will mostly depend on the power of technology to increase production and cut on expenditure. Automation, according to the study is threatening two to eight per cent of today’s jobs in most developing countries. It further showed that automation is going to hurt high income countries that largely depend on manufacturing than developing economies. Share of workers with high risk of automation was recorded in China at 7.1 per cent, 4.9 per cent in Ukraine, 4.2 per cent in Turkey while Bolivia and Kenya recorded least rates of 2.3 and 1.4 per cent respectively. The World Bank’s report follows another by Grant Thornton International Business released in 2015 that revealed that 56 per cent of firms are either automating processes or plan to do so over the next 12 months. The survey which sampled 2,500 executives across 36 economies including Kenya showed that more than a third of companies in manufacturing, cleantech, technology and food and beverages expect automation to replace at least 5 per cent of their workforce. This is bad news to thousands of graduates churned out of tertiary institutions every year, with the hope of securing jobs. At least 50,000 graduates join the country’s job market every year, according to the Ministry of Education. While automation is likely to further raise the country’s high rate of unemployment which currently stand at 39.1 per cent, the highest in East Africa, manufacturers are happy that it will help them cut up to 25 per cent in production costs, this according to Mckinsey. 