Police in Matungu are looking for a man suspected to have killed his step mother before throwing her body into a pit latrine. James Makokha is suspected to have murdered 55-year-old Jeneveva Muyonga on Thursday last week. The mother of three disappeared on Thursday before her body was discovered in the old pit latrine on Saturday. On Friday, his sister Immaculate Makokha, reported  to the Harambee police station about her missing mother. But concerned villagers launched a search for the woman, leading to the discovery of her body in the latrine. Matungu OCPD Paul Kiprono said police took Muyonga's body to the Bungoma County Hospital mortuary. The police have launch a search for the man who is on the run
after her stepmother was found dead in a pit latrine. James Makokha alias Junior is suspected to have murdered her step
mother then as a way to get rid of her he dumped the body in an old pit
latrine. Jeneveva
Muyonga a 55 years old a mother of three from Mukhweya is said to have
mysteriously disappeared on Thursday. The villagers started been suspicious when the late could not be
seen for two days in a row. They started inquiring about it from the son who lives with her in
the same compound who denied knowing her whereabouts. “We
all started asking questions and we suspected that Junior knew where Muyonga
his mother was" said a neighbour. Immaculate
Makokha his sister to the suspects who was called from where she lives went on
and reported a missing person at Harambee police station on Friday. “I got a call that my mother was missing, which was odd as my
mother never leaves the village without me knowing, so I came and decided to
report the case” said Immaculate Makokha. The neighbour started sensing that it was not all good when the
suspect started reconstruction of the pit latrine to make it strong. Early
on Saturday morning neighbours congregated and the homestead of the late and started
looking all-over the village for her without success. "When
we got tired of looking around we went back to the home and we raised an issue
with the pit latrine that he had been reconstructing" said a neighbour. The
suspect was told to lead the mass there in the destruction of the latrine. Neighbours
joined in and put down the structure to their surprise they saw the legs of a
person inside. The
suspects on seeing it too took off and evaded the mob. The police on Saturday evening retrieved the body of the woman
from a latrine and took it to Bungoma County hospital mortuary. Initial police assessment showed the late had head injuries
probably inflicted by a crude weapon. The
suspect is a casual labourer and it is suspected the row with her stepmother was
bought about through a dispute on a piece of land. Confirming
the incident the Matungu OCPD Paul Kiprono said the police had launched a manhunt for
the suspect who is on the run.