One day, Nkwazi, the great Fish Eagle, called a meeting of all birds to trigger a revolt against the Lion. After failing to convince the rest that he should be king, he suggested they hold a competition. The other main competitors were Kohva, the giant eagle owl; Ngqithi, the kori bustard; and Ncede, the tiny neddicky (a small, quick-moving southern African warbler). All the birds would fly as high as possible and whoever touched the hand of God would be King. Just before takeoff, Ncede, who knew his tiny wings would take him nowhere, silently crept underneath the wing of Nkwazi. Tired, the owl was the first to resign before the bustard also gave in and the eagle thought he had won. But before he could celebrate, Ncede shot out from under his feathers and rose above to touch the hand of God. As Ncede came down he did not find the kingly welcome he expected. Before the other birds could catch him, the little bird quickly flew into a deserted snake hole and stayed hidden. To date, the owl sleeps during the day so that none of the other birds will bother him. And Ncede hides out in the forest, flittering here and there, never stopping anywhere long enough to be caught. And do the birds have a king? They must still be arguing about it. Ahead of the August 8 General Election, like Nkwazi, ODM leader Raila Odinga convinced some Kenyans that President Uhuru Kenyatta was not their king. What followed was a lengthy political season and right now most Kenyans are eager to move forward and forget about that year. As one goes around the country, it is clear that Kenyans have moved on. The county governments have appointed their cabinets, the president has begun to appoint his government and Kenyans are eager to make a living and put food on the table. But the opposition outfit NASA is like a combination of Ncede and the Kohva. It has tried all manner of tricks to get power but has ended up sleeping on the job by not winning the majority of votes. Despite the defeat, NASA is still trying to pull tricks here and there as seen last week. Even after meeting US Ambassador Robert Godec, NASA still insists that it will swear in its presidential candidate Raila Odinga on January 30. One wonders, what vacant position the opposition is swearing themselves into? Most importantly, what next after the swearing-in? Which judge would be foolish enough to swear them in? Despite knowing that the swearing-in is an effort in futility, NASA has been pushing the idea since November in a manner similar to Ncede, who is always on the run. Like the birds kingdom, NASA supporters are angry with their leaders, who couldn’t deliver victory, and have joined other Kenyans to move on. NASA supporters are leaderless. Their leadership is fast asleep, waiting for another political competition in 2022. Nobody, including NASA supporters, is taking Raila seriously anymore. Before January 30 he would have found another excuse to postpone the swearing-in, yet again. The opposition needs to wake up to the reality that their aim of taking power by force is a dream. Nothing good will come out of those plans. Additionally, the President now has the instruments of power and will not hesitate to defend the country and the Constitution, which he swore to safeguard. Methinks that NASA is blackmailing envoys and the Uhuru administration to get power in the form of positions. What we need now is reconciliation, uniting the country and rebuilding the nation. This is what the opposition needs to advocate, if it has the interests of this country at heart. All other political projects should wait to battle it out with Deputy President William Ruto in 2022, not now. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda)