 The Nairobi county government will sponsor 612 students who performed well in last year's KCPE, Governor Mike Sonko has said. Sonko said the top three students in the county's 204 public primary schools will benefit from the kitty as form ones report next Tuesday. "This is in line with our agenda of supporting education of the bright needy students from Nairobi City County," he said on Friday. The governor said he has already given instructions that all the bursary allocation forms be released to all the public primary schools. He said a similar program will also be undertaken by all the MCAs in the county in phase two of the program later this month. "We decided to do this as we wait for the free secondary education program by the national government." The government has already released Sh29.5 billion for the free education project. Sonko warned head teachers and other education officials against using such programs to enrich themselves by selling the chance to the highest bidder. "Any primary school head teacher or education official who will attempt to sell or deny such needy students a chance by soliciting for bribes shall be dealt with mercilessly."  He said any culprit found will lose their job and will also be ‘imprisoned for a very long time’. Sonko joins a growing list of governors and MPs who have embraced education as a means to free the society of ignorance and set the foundation of economic growth. His Kwale county counterpart Salim Mvurya has made a name for himself for sponsoring bright needy students to university. More on this: No more bursary if you score D in two consecutive terms, Kwale students told Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo has also rolled put an annual full secondary school scholarship for 170 students in his constituency. However, Sonko is the first to roll out a free full secondary school education scholarship for the whole secondary school period. This came as government has rolled out the new 2-6-3-3-3 education system which is competence-based as opposed to the exam-based 8-4-4 system. Click
here for the latest political news         