School heads have until February 20 to submit institutional and learner information on the National Education Management Information System (NEMIS). NEMIS is an online portal developed by the Ministry of Education for the collection of real-time and accurate data on learning institutions and learners. The system will support evidence-based policy development in the sector. Read; Unique identifiers to replace index numbers during exams A circular dispatched by basic education PS Belio Kipsang requires school heads to enter the details of their respective schools, learners and all members of staff and generate a unique personal identifier (UPI) for each one of them. “These features will go a long way in sanitizing the management of resources in the sector and allow all efforts to be directed at achieving quality education for sustainable development,” Kipsang said via the circular dated January 23. It was copied to regional coordinators, county directors and sub-county directors of education. Data uploaded on the system will enable the ministry to distribute books and funds in relation to the unique needs of individual schools. Candidates sitting national exams will also in future no longer use index numbers but will be identified using the UPIs. Schools will also receive capitation funds and books using the UPIs. “Through this system, education sector players will get to know the status of education in regard to access, quality, equity, relevance, efficiency as well as institutional development,” noted Kipsang. The system can be accessed at http://nemis.education.go.ke/ Usernames and passwords have been forwarded to the sub-county directors of education for issuance to principals and school managers. Information on the institution (including staff details) should be entered under the “Institution Module” while information on learners should go under the “Learner Module”. “Immediately change your password with six characters of alphanumeric. A leaner will require a birth certificate to successfully generate a Personal Identifier (UPI),” Kipsang said. He said exceptions will be given to learners without birth certificates where the system will generate a UPI valid for 30 days to enable parents to process the document. Previously, data collection on schools was done manually through the filling of the annual school census form. The system was unreliable as some unscrupulous heads would inflate the number of students in their institutions in order to get more capitations for textbooks. However, a new textbook distribution policy is now in a place where textbooks are being distributed directly to schools by the government. Read; This year's KCSE, KCPE candidates to pioneer new indexing system - Matiang'i   Click here for the latest political news  