Lack of space is likely to frustrate the government's plan to ensure 100 per cent transition rate of pupils into secondary schools, education stakeholders in Migori have said. Principals, Knut, Kuppet, and church leaders asked the government to increase the number of classrooms and improve schools' infrastructure if the plan is to succeed. The lot accused acting Education CS Fred Matiang'i of issuing decrees without consulting the stakeholders, a situation they say present challenges of implementation. A spot check at Kanga High School, a national school, showed that the school is strained since they have increased their streams from three to seven. The case is similar in Kanyawanga, Rapogi Boys, Rapogi Girls, Ageng'a Secondary, Migori Boys High School, and Ulanda Girls secondary school. "We need to urgently improve infrastructure in schools to accommodate high number of students transiting from primary to secondary school, otherwise we may face unrests," Michael Gweno, Kanga principal, said. He said the school has admitted 400 more students from its previous population of 1,000. "Schools, and not Kanga alone needs more classes, dormitories and laboratories," he said. The dormitories, whose cubicles are supposed to have four beds, have been forced to have six or even more due to limited space. Migori Kuppet secretary general Samuel Jasolo said most schools are grappling with the inadequate ablution facilities, shortage of beds, classrooms and laboratories. His Knut counterpart Caleb Opondi said the shortage showed that the ministry of education ignored the input of stakeholders. Bishop John Okinda of PEFA church said the touted education reforms "are a one-man show, which will die if Matiang’i is transferred or moves on." "My church runs several schools across the country and we have been strained by the several decrees made without consultation," Okinda said. He said already schools have seen unrest especially in transfer of heads which was done without consultations. Okinda said stakeholders need to come together and ensure infrastructure are improved in schools urgently. Also read: Matiang'i launches Operation Tupeleke Watoto Shule after low numbers More: Students who scored C+ and above in KCSE to join university Click here for latest political news  