Zanzibar international midfielder Abdul Aziz Makame has emerged as the latest target of last year’s Kenyan Premier league runners up Sofapaka with the club confident they will secure his services in the next one week. Batoto Ba Mungu chief executive officer, Emmanuel Kayoyi revealed on the club’s official portal that negotiations have been ongoing between them and Jangòmbe FC, with only few details remaining before Makame becomes a Sofapaka player. “We have been talking to the club for a while now and we are almost coming to an agreement. The talks are positive and I am certain we will land the player. He will be our final signing of the January window,” said Kayoyi. Makame attracted interest from several Kenyan clubs following his impressive displays in the Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup, where Zanzibar lost narrowly to hosts Harambee Stars on post-match penalties in the finals of the competition. On his part, head coach Sam Ssimbwa admitted that he doesn’t know the 21-year-old so well but has received very satisfactory comments about him. “I didn’t have the privilege of watching Cecafa and so I didn’t see much of him. But my fellow coaches did watch him and the report I get is that he is a very good player and will be a very good addition to the team,” Ssimbwa said. Sofapaka have moved with speed to beef up their squad in a bid to challenge current champions Gor Mahia and other able clubs for the 2018 Kenyan Premier League (KPL) title. Players that have already committed themselves to wearing the blue and white jersey include Western Stima utility man Vitalis Akumu, left-back Yussuf Mohammed (Muhoroni Youth), former AFC Leopards keeper Ian Otieno, Kariobangi Sharks duo of Ibrahim Kitawi and Elli Asieche, Jackson Saleh, strikers Stephen Waruru and Kepha Aswani as well as midfielder Teddy Osok, who is on loan from Gor Mahia. Meanwhile, the club has released Ugandan defender Jonathan Mugabi, Sam Mutiria, Hansel Ochieng and George Opiyo while forward Morven Otinya has been shipped out on a season-long loan deal to Nzoia Sugar. Meanwhile, young striker Evans Ogila is set for big time football at Sofapaka after shinning with the youth team in the 2017 Football Kenya Federation (FKF) County League where he plundered 15 goals. Sofapaka Youth coach Edward Munandi admitted the 18-year-old player has an eye for goal. “I must say Ogila was among the stand-out players for the junior team last season and if he gets good guidance, he will be the next big thing in Kenyan football. He is a shining example of the plethora of talents Kenya boasts at the youth ranks,” said Munandi. Ogila, who is a product of Makongeni High School in Nairobi’s Eastlands, was marvel to watch for Sofapaka Youth partnering with Isaac Simiyu and Chris Kelly during the County League in which the team wound up fourth overall. Ogila’s midas touch was first noticed during the Nairobi Inter-schools invitational tournament at Moi Forces Academy a few years ago when Makongeni High reached the final,where they succumbed 1-2 to the hosts. “It was a tough match in which we covered almost every blade of the grass of the pitch but we unfortunately lost. That was when Sofapaka officials approached me and I didn’t hesitate to join their junior team,” he said. Ogila, whose younger sibling James Okello plays for Black Eagles of Pumwani, is also a constant feature in the popular Koth Biro tournament in Ziwani, where he turns out for Borussia.