TSC county directors have until tomorrow to submit a list of teachers who either joined politics or were employed by county governments last year. The commission sought the data to enable it strike off its payroll teachers who are no longer its employees but may still be drawing salaries. These include teachers who were elected or nominated to various political posts during and after the August 8 polls and those who have since been employed by county governments. “Reference is made to the concluded general elections and the subsequent nominations of persons to take up political posts as MPs or MCAs by the Political parties. Read : Don't drag teachers into your political ambitions, Kiambu teachers tell Sossion “While some had resigned or retired as per the provisions of the Elections Act and Regulations 157 of the TSC Code of Regulations for Teachers, the commission is concerned that some could be still on our payroll,” reads a circular dispatched to TSC county directors. The circular, dated December 15, 2017, is signed by director of Human Resource and Development Josephine Maundu. The county directors are required to state the full names of the affected teachers, their TSC numbers, their last station and the name of their new employer. “Those joining the county governments should know that the release to county governments will be guided by regulations 167 of the Code of regulations for teachers and there will be no automatic reinstatement by TSC if their contract with the county government ends or is terminated,” Maundu said. Regulation 167 of the Code of Regulations states in part that TSC may release, without pay, a teacher appointed to a public institution, teachers' union, public educational institution, county government or a body registered under the State Corporations Act. Further, the Code says if a teacher is released to take up employment in an institution that is not a public institution, he forfeits all benefits under the public service. “The Commission shall suspend the benefits of a teacher seeking release from the teaching service until retirement in accordance with government regulations,” the Code adds. According to the regulations, if a teacher is released to a teachers' union or to any institution and continues to contribute 3 per cent of the basic salary towards the pension scheme, such a teacher may retire voluntarily on attaining 50 years of age. Under the Kenyan law, civil servants are eligible for retirement pension upon attainment of pensionable age of 60 years or 55 years if he opts for early retirement. Maundu said teachers who were released to help county governments transition through the devolved system of government between 2012 and 2016 had until January 1 to report back to TSC for posting. Any teacher who had been released during the transition phase but failed to report back by the end of the window period will have to go through the full process of re-employment right from the fresh application stage. Precedent In December last year, a directive from Labour CS Phylis Kandie requiring teacher union officials who had joined politics to resign kicked off a storm with Knut’s Wilson Sossion vowing not to resign. The Kenya National Union of Teachers boss said the union is not government property to be dictated. Other top union officials asked to vacate union posts are Kuppet’s Omboko Milemba, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga, Baringo's Stanley Kiptis, Bomet Central MP Ronald Tonui, Nyatike MP Tom Odege and Bungoma Women Representative Catherine Wambilianga among others. Sossion was nominated to Parliament by the ODM Party, Milemba won the Emuhaya parliamentary seat, while Odege won the Nyatike MP seat. "I'm not relinquishing my position. I should go where? I'm here to stay" Sossion said on December 14 in response to Kandie's directive. Click here for the latest political news