Human resource professionals have urged the government to remodel its retirement programme to avoid an escalating jobs and pension crisis. According to Human Resource Management Professionals Examinations Board chairperson Elijah Sitima failure to review the current model will mean that the government will have to spend more paying pension. “The government needs to change its pension scheme to divine contribution from the current divine benefits, divine benefits is when a retiree gets a fixed amount of money until they die and its an expensive one, while divine contribution will look at how much did an employee contribute for them to be able to experience an invested amount of money for a period of time,” Sitima said A recent Public Service Commission report to Parliament revealed the percentage of civil servants above the age of 50 increased from 35 per cent in the year to June 2016, to 37 per cent last year. This means that not less than 37 per cent of the current civil servants will be retiring in the next decade. They want retirement benefits funds separated from government expenditure and managed independently, as it is vulnerable to interference depending on the financial status of the government. Also proposed by the experts is the adoption of a contract model opposed to the current permanent and pensionable model. They argue that this will give the government freedom when it comes to hiring, and termination of contracts. Giving her remarks during the release of the second batch of certified human resource professionals in Kenya, Institute of Human Resource Management executive director Dorcas Wainana said that it’s high time the introduction of entrepreneurial skills in the civil service was prioritised to empower civil servants in readiness for exit from formal employment into the private sector depending on rising trends in the job market. Wainaina also blamed the rising unemployment rate in the country to cultural practices, stereotyping of jobs based on gender and lack of knowledge on the importance of course taught at vocational training centres. To solve this, the board and IHRM have asked the unemployed population to embrace vocational training and other technical training programmes introduced by the government.