Kenya can now order for a new typhoid vaccine, which the World Health Organisation has approved.  The new vaccine has a longer-lasting immunity than older vaccines, requires fewer doses, and can be given to children as young as six months through the routine childhood immunisation programmes.  The WHO approval makes it eligible for procurement by countries through agencies such as UNICEF, and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.  “WHO prequalification helps to ensure that vaccines used in immunisation programmes are safe, effective, and appropriate for countries’ needs,” the organisation said in a statement.  The new vaccine is called Typbar-TCVR and is made by India's Bharat Biotech.  According to the ministry of health, typhoid affects less than one per cent of Kenyans annually and is usually treated with antibiotics.  However, the Kenya Medical Research Institute says a new drug-resistant strain was last year reported in Nairobi, leading to a growing need for an effective vaccine.  Prof Sam Kariuki, the head of microbiology at Kemri, recently said the drug-resistant strain of typhoid, called H58, was found in Nairobi’s Mukuru kwa Njenga slum.  “With the increase of slums, which have poor sanitation, these cases are bound to go up,” he told journalists.  Vaccines in Kenya are almost entirely financed by Gavi, a Geneva based body that is supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the World Bank, Unicef and donor governments to buy the vaccines for poorer nations.  Gavi says it has approved Sh8.7 billion ($85 million) to buy the typhoid vaccine, and the earliest it can reach beneficiary countries is 2019.  “The growing spread of drug resistant strains of typhoid is a major threat…. Strong coverage through routine immunisation together with efforts to improve access to clean water and hygiene will play a key role in dramatically reducing the disease.” said Dr Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi. Typhoid is usually spread through contaminated food and water.  Symptoms include fever, fatigue, headache, abdominal pain, and diarrhea or constipation.  Global estimates of the typhoid burden range between 11 and 20 million cases and between about 128 000 and 161 000 typhoid deaths annually.  Poor communities and vulnerable groups, such as children, are often the most susceptible.  WHO says urbanisation and climate change have the potential to increase the global burden of typhoid.  In addition, increasing resistance to antibiotic treatment is making it easier for typhoid to spread through overcrowded populations in cities and inadequate and/or flooded water and sanitation systems.