Kenya’s grit and determination to end all trade in ivory got a boost yesterday after the UK announced plans to end the domestic ivory trade. Making the announcement in Nairobi, UK’s head of prosperity team and deputy permanent representative to the UN John Hamilton told the media the ban is on course. “UK has played a leading role in tackling the illegal trade in ivory and rhino horn and across all species,” he said. UK’s announcement comes barely six days after China banned the trade. Read : China's ban on ivory trade comes into force Kenya has been pushing for a total ban on ivory trade, warning the trade risks wiping out elephants. The latest campaign to stop ivory was a walk by Elephant Neighbors Center founder Jim Justus Nyamu. The centre is an NGO with a mission to protect the African elephant and secure landscapes for elephants outside the protected areas. The Elephants Walk in the UK started from Kensington, London, to Council House College Green, Bristol, on December 3 last year,taking 10 days with overnight stopovers. Nyamu, who walked 340km, said there is a serious need for awareness. “Lords wanted to know how trade influences poaching. We need to equip tour guides so they help tourists coming to the country on the need to protect these iconic species,” Nyamu said, urging conservationists not to celebrate yet. Current UK law allows trade in ‘antiques’ carved before 1947, but the government is slowly bowing to pressure and will ban sale of ivory regardless of age. Also read : 29 countries urge EU, UK to ban ivory trade It has become the world’s leading exporter of legal ivory carvings and antiques in recent years. An Environmental Investigation Agency report showed there were more than 36,000 items exported from the UK between 2010 and 2015. This is more than three times that of the next biggest exporter - US. In October last year, Environment Secretary Michael Gove announced that there was consultation going on to end the trade in ivory of all ages. Click here for the latest political news 