There was drama at Diani in Kwale county after an artiste threatened a widow over a piece of land in the full glare of media cameras. This was when Joyce Mumbua, the widow to late tycoon Mohammed Hanif Khan, was narrating her ordeal to the media. As she spoke of the death threats, the accused Kassim Mwambodze alias Kim, stormed the meeting place and repeatedly threatened to harm her. The incident followed just few days after the Star highlighted her story over the same saga. Mumbua told reporters that Kim has been threatening her over a 5.6 acre piece of land that was left behind by her late husband. The mother of two said the land is the only property she has from her husband Khan who died ten years ago after a long illness. But Kim claimed the disputed piece of land belongs to him and there is no way the Mumbua would get it. Mumbua reported the fresh threats at Diani police station under OB 43/06/01/2018. Police have also launched investigations on the matter. Mumbua said trouble over the said land started when a Mombasa court ordered a reopening of a succession file of her husband's property. She said since then, she has been receiving threats on her life over the same property. Mumbua said she was attacked in 2015 by unknown people who stole seven title deeds. "I am scared for my life and those of my children. If it could not be for Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's intervention, I could have been killed long ago," she said. Mumbua accused her tormentors of rejoicing in her agony adding that she is worried about the safety of her children. "They want my children to suffer. I am forced to hide all the time for our safety," she said. In December last year, Justice Thande Mugure certified that a written grant of Khan be issued to her wife including the property. The judge further ordered that several other properties,
including 10 parcels of land in Kwale-Diani and motor vehicles, be added in the list of properties on the original case file opened in
2008. The previous matter filed under Succession Cause No. 126
of 2008 which listed only one parcel of land has stalled for years.  Later, an attempt by a popular businessman in Diani to grab one of the
properties was thwarted after Sonko stepped in. Read: Widow of slain tycoon says she gets death threats Click
here for the latest political news     