Two guards have been charged with assault in connection with the death of a Mombasa-based banker on Sunday. Police are hunting for three others. They are accused of beating David Wokabi, who later succumbed to head injuries at the Aga Khan Hospital. The Solvit Security Firm guards attacked Wokabi after he allegedly urinated at an undesignated area within Nyali Centre. Wokabi worked at Stanbic Bank, located within the centre that also hosts clubs, supermarkets and several business premises. He tried to drive away after the incident but was stopped by the guards at the gate. A confrontation ensued and the guards dragged Wokabi from his car and stabbed him several times. CCTV footage shows at least five guards beating Wokabi who appeared defenceless. They left him unconscious at the gate during the 3am incident. The 34-year-old father of two was rushed to Jocham Hospital where doctors recommended that he be transferred to the Aga Khan Hospital. He succumbed to multiple head and neck injuries at the Agha Khan’s intensive care unit on Sunday. A postmortem report showed Wokabi had a damaged skull and cuts on his neck. “He died of brain damage due to the severe injuries that pushed him into a comma,” his widow Grace Wokabi said. She said there was foul play in her husband’s death, alleging that the guards knew him since they were working at the same centre. Kisauni police boss Musee Sangura said they were hunting for the three others. Those arrested, Hamisi Karisa and Saidi Mwalugo were detained at the Shimo la Tewa police station. They had pleaded not guilty to the assault charges in a Shanzu court. “The three other suspects are still at large and we will be amend their charges to murder,” Sangura said. The security company said they were cooperating with police to arrest the guards on the run. “We are aware of the incident and we are sending condolences to the family. It is very unfortunate,” the firm’s operation manager Christopher Wairoma said. He denied claims that the company was covering up the incident by denying the family access to CCTV footage and details of the three guards yet to be arrested.Wairoma said the details had been given to police. Click here for the latest political stories