Former military intelligence officer Twalib Mbarak has been approved by the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee to steer the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The committee chairperson and Baringo North MP William Cheptumo this morning tabled a report in the House that recommended Mbarak's approval. The committee found the nominee suitable for appointment to the position of Chief Executive Officer at the anti-graft agency for the next six years. “The committee recommends that pursuant to the provision of Section 16 (1) of the EACC Act, the House approves the nomination of Mbarak for appointment as CEO of EACC by the appointing authority,” the report states in part. During this afternoon’s session, MPs are expected to either endorse or reject Mbarak’s nomination to the top seat. Cheptumo had earlier told the media that the nominee’s fate squarely lies on the MPs who will make their decision in the afternoon session. “I hope and I am very certain that members will look at the report and debate on the suitability of the nominee and make a decision either way. The decision to approve or reject the nominee lies with members,” Cheptumo said. Read: Twalib Mbarak named EACC CEO, awaits MPs approval Also read: Mbarak the right man to dismantle cartels sabotaging EACC, say staff The committee vetted Mbarak, 53, on Friday last week. If approved by the MPs, Mbarak’s name will be forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta for the official appointment before being sworn in by Chief Justice David Maraga. He is expected to succeed Halakhe Waqo as CEO at EACC. The House adjourned for a long recess a fortnight ago but last week, House Speaker Justin Muturi convened the special sitting slated for today. During his vetting last week, Mbarak told MPs: “I have the skin of a rhino because I started taking risks at an early age. I know exactly what I am getting myself into”. He said corruption was posing a threat to national security and pledged to dismantle its networks by implementing the multi-sectoral approach. He said he doesn’t engage in any business, putting his net-worth as Sh152 million. “I only write articles on security intelligence as a hobby whenever I am requested and I actually don’t earn anything from them. My wife is a housewife who takes care of me and my children,” Mbarak said. He is currently working at the Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) as security and integrity manager. More: Uhuru entrusts key jobs to former military and intelligence officers Click here for the latest political news