Some of the Kenya Premier League clubs are crying foul after the closure of their training facilities by the Kenya Premier League. KPL have blacklisted five facilities describing them as sub-standard. The clubs said that the move was a big blow to their preparations for the forthcoming matches. The league body, through the Stadia Safety and Security Committee (SSSC), deemed five facilities not for to host SportPesa Premier League matches and recommended their closure until they meet the demands of hosting high profile matches. The five are—Mumias Sports Complex, Ruaraka Sports Club, Thika Sub-County Stadium, Camp Toyoyo and Chemelil Sports Complex. Eleven time Kenyan champions Tusker appear to be the most hit as the closure of Ruaraka Stadium leaves them with the option of taking their home matches away and puts the management on the spot for failing to rehabilitate the facility despite their financial power. The club’s team manager, George Opondo, said they will opt for Moi Stadium, Kasarani as they wait for Kenya Breweries to give the bumpy Ruaraka Stadium a facelift. “It’s a blow for us since we host our home matches here. We already talked to our bosses with the aim of having our pitch rehabilitated as soon as possible to meet the required standards. We had identified Meru for our home matches but it’s unfortunate it’s not ready but before then, we will play our matches at Kasarani,” he said. Chemelil head coach Francis Baraza expressed shock with the move to close Chemelil Sports Complex which he said would burden them in organising both home and away matches. “I am not aware if our facility has been blacklisted and if it’s true, then it’s a big blow to us. I will brief my bosses on the same even as we try to get another venue for our home matches. We have to incur additional costs since our budget for both home and away matches will shoot up.” The ban on the Jericho-based Camp Toyoyo is set to affect a number of teams including Posta Rangers, Kariobangi Sharks, KCB and Mount Kenya United, who treat the venue as home. However Rangers head coach Sammy Omollo welcomed the ban on the astro turf pitch, citing injury to the players. “I support the ban of Toyoyo from hosting top flight matches. It poses a danger to players since the drainage system which is just inches off the playing surface has protruding metals and holes which is a risk to the players. I have seen players get injured there and as Rangers, we will host our matches either at Narok, Machakos or Kasarani.”