Months after President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed cabinet secretaries, concerns are being raised over nepotism in one of the ministries. The CS, a former political figure, is said to have revamped junior roles in the ministry and created extra positions to accommodate not only people from his ethnic background but also close family members. This has essentially turned the office into a little village as the new employees dominate the office with local dialect. Sources at the ministry are further complaining of favoritism and deteriorating working relations. There are complaints the new staff are arrogant and fail to adhere to the code of conduct. Its perhaps this kind of behaviour President Kenyatta had in mind when he said Kenya needs to rethink winner takes it all system of government. Cartels at the National Irrigation board are rumored to be a threatened lot. It's said they are working round the clock with the current management to approve payments for a suspicious project that will cost taxpayers hundreds of millions of shillings. It's alleged that two of them were overheard saying that the management must approve payments of up-to Sh20million before new-year. The men are rumored to be worried about impending internal changes and a possible reshuffle at the apex that could affect a couple of Css, PSs, and parastatal heads. They want the National Irrigation Board to pay the cash so that even if changes occur, they will be able to share the money between them and the management. A wife to a vocal governor is the talk of town. Reason? She has become a barrier between the electorate and her hubby. In fact, Wananchi in several constituencies are forced to go through her and a number of nominated women MCA's associated with the lady to get help. This includes approval for projects being implemented at the county level. Our mole at the devolved unit told Corridors that cartels have taken advantage of the unofficial bureaucracy to get a commission in projects being implemented by the county government. Its whispered the woman also influenced the nomination of the MCA's who have become very close to her. The fight in Jubilee is real and it may soon be dirty. Sources whispered to Corridors that some people allied to team Tanga tanga are compiling nasty details of graft against people seen to be allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The feeling within the infamous Tanga tanga movement is that they are being pushed too hard while the President's side is not being antagonised. This is the third time the reports are being heard. Our moles told Corridors that the team is looking at the legal loopholes available before they release 'the damning dossier. Click here for the latest political news