Deputy President William Ruto part with Sh10 million for 1,000 goats at the Kimalel auction in Baringo. He was the chief guest at the Saturday event, held in the county every year. Ruto told the farmers that he will share the goats with President Uhuru Kenyatta and their other friends. He sold 2,590 goats in 15 minutes. A goat was trading at Sh10,000 cash. "My boss Uhuru Kenyatta sent me with Sh4 milion to buy 400 goats to give as Christmas gift to members of his security detail," Ruto said. Every farmer is however expected to deduct some Sh6,000 from the total sales to pay towards the contribution of the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF). Earlier, the farmers had threatened to snub the Kimalel goat auction, fearing part of their proceeds will be deducted towards NHIF contributions. Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol on Friday urged Governor Stanley Kiptis to withdraw the NHIF deduction idea or farmers would boycott the open sale. “You should address this because people are not well informed. They are not happy to have part of their benefits slashed to pay for the medical scheme,” he said. Read: Baringo farmers threaten to boycott Kimalel goat auction over NHIF deductions Water Cabinet Secretary(CS) Simon Chelugui paid Sh2milion cash to purchase 200 goats. Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen part with Sh1 million for 100 goats each while Baringo Senator Gideon Moi bought 43 goats. Baringo Assembly Speaker David Kiplagat and the county's 48 MCAs purchased 100 goats. Uasin-Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who bought 25 goats while Water Principal Secretary Prof Segor took 30 goats. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Charles Kamuren (Baringo South), and Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central) bought ten goats each. Kikuyu Mp Kimani Ichung'wa bought 20, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga (15) whereas Baringo Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot bought 10. Last year, DP Ruto shocked many when he landed with a bag full of Sh12 million cash to buy 1,000 goats for himself and for Uhuru. Apart from goat sale Kimalel was also wash with cultural and dances that brought together over 30 groups from Tugen, Pokot and Ilchamus communities in Baringo county. Last year, Sh24.9 million was raised from sale of 2,081 goats. Baringo county gets at least Sh2.9 billion from the sale of more than 120,000 animals every year. Also Read: Uhuru praises Moi for Kimalel goat auction Click here for the latest political news