President Uhuru Kenyatta will land in Ahero today before proceeding to commission development projects in Kisumu, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has said. He said Uhuru will open projects including commissioning of Ahero tarmac road, standard gauge railway project and a new Kisumu port. Tomorrow, Raila and Uhuru will be awarded an honorary doctorate degree at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology. The ODM party leader said these are part of the benefits the public will enjoy following the handshake between him and Kenyatta. “We agreed together with Uhuru to end the political animosity and supremacy battle and to forge forward together to unite this country,” said Raila. He said the results of the Building Bridges Initiative will address every concern ranging from injustices to electoral reforms. Raila spoke during a night talk show on Radio Ramogi FM on Tuesday. Uhuru’s itinerary after visiting Kisumu will include Nyamira and Kisii counties before proceeding to Coast for the climax of the launch of the Building Bridges Initiative, whose report is about to be released. He said following their handshake, perceived sidelined communities have benefitted from various opportunities available in government. “The Luo community is amongst the communities that have been sidelined in job opportunities but since the handshake we have seen the reverse,” he said. During the show, Raila said they both decided to cede ground and end the perceived protracted political supremacy battle for the sake of the country. He said he and Uhuru intend to visit all parts of the country to preach peace and harmony among various communities. “There was tension in Kisumu immediately after the release of the presidential results hence the need for inviting Uhuru to the region to defuse it,”said Raila. The ODM party leader emphasised that the drive to reach ‘Canaan’ was still on inspite the current political developments. “This should not be misconstrued to be the end of our striving to reach Canaan.Expect more of political development come next week,”he added. Raila asked his supporters to remain patient as more benefits come.