A massive door-to-door Form One enrolment campaign is being rolled out in Kwale county. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo said the campaign will ensure all candidates who sat for this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination join secondary schools. Speaking during a county government bursaries disbursement drive at Baraza Park in Kwale town, Ngumo said all education stakeholders will be involved in the campaign. "To ensure optimal transition rate of up to 100 per cent, the national government administration officials will from January next year champion the drive to have all the pupils move to the next level of education," he said. Ngumo said this was in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s pledge that every child will get an opportunity to proceed to secondary school. "All the necessary measures will be put in place to ensure this region meets the transition target so that every local child accesses education without hindrance," he added. Also read: All KCPE candidates will join form one, says Amina He lauded the county government’s ambitious drive to uplift education standards under the Elimu ni Sasa initiative by offering bursaries to over 50,000 beneficiaries out of which about 4,000 are in national schools. "In the near future, this region will start reaping the fruits of the heavy investment in the education sector for it will have a whole generation of scholars, courtesy of the scholarships," he said. He urged students to devote their time to education as it will help them break many barriers in life. At the same time, he challenged parents to take a keen interest in their children’s education, since it is the only inheritance they can bequeath to them noting that it is easier to lead educated people than the uneducated. "Parents have a responsibility to guide and counsel children to avert the growing indiscipline in schools that is undermining education," Ngumo said. He noted that parents should never allow themselves to be intimidated by their children’s intellect but instead make use of their long experience in life and wisdom to mould them into responsible citizens. Click here for the latest political news