The battle of who will the run the county of Machakos came to an end on Friday after the Supreme Court ruled that governor Alfred Mutua was validly elected in last year's general elections. Soon after the ruling, Wavinya Ndeti said she will respect the decision . "I maintain that my opponent was not validly elected and has continued to force himself on the people of Machakos," she posted on twitter. This brings to an end the long court battle between Mutua and his arc-rival Wavinya Ndeti who has exhausted all legal channels in a bid to oust the governor from office. In their ruling delivered by Chief Justice David Maraga, the judges dismissed the allegation that the engagement of employees of Machakos county government compromised IEBC independence and affected the credibility of the poll. They ruled that they found nothing irregular in the engagement of other employees of the county government in the conduct of the election as there was no evidence of any partial conduct on the part of any of them. Wavinya had claimed that a person by the name Urbans Wamnua who was an agent of Mandeleo Chap Chap was also an employee of the Machakos county but the judges ruled that there was no evidence that the said Wambua was the same person who worked as the chief officer at the county. “The allegation that Wambua was the chief officer of the county government required proof beyond reasonable doubt but the respondents failed to discharge that burden,” the court held. There was also contention of form 37 C that was used in declaring the results and both Wavinya and IEBC had a copy that they had claimed was used to declare the results. Wavinya had argued that the one used by IEBC was not verifiable as it was not the one prescribed in the elections act. However, the court said that the correct form was the one produced by IEBC and Mutua which had the returning officer’s signature along with the all the agents including Wavinya’s. “The form has the figures of 249,603 as the votes cast in favour of Mutua against Wavinya who received 209,141. Those numbers which were not disputed still leave Mutua ahead of Wavinya with a margin of over 40,000 votes,” the judges ruled. The judges ruled that the court of appeal erred in holding that the Machakos gubernatorial elections was not conducted in accordance with the law. The court ruled that Mutua was validly elected as the the governor and further set aside the decision by the court appeal that nullified his win. Read: Supreme Court orders fresh election in Embakasi South Click here for the latest political news