Champions KCB moved into second place on the standings with a comfortable 34-15 demolition of Homeboyz in an entertaining Kenya Cup at the Lions den in Ruaraka The bankers are five points behind Kabras who stay unbeaten after ending Impala’s hundred percent record 41-10 at Kakamega showground. The bankers were handed the lead early when Darwin Mukidza split the uprights with a penalty for a 3-0 lead. The hosts grew in confidence and hooker George Asin went on a storming run and fed the ball to lock, Francis Mwita, who was tackled a few meters away from the try line. From a quick recycle, Michael Wanjala fed Billy Isabwa who scored the opening try. Mukidza converted for a 10-0 lead. Mukidza added a penalty midway through the half as the hosts led 13-0 at the interval. On resumption, the deejays came out firing and against the run of play, scrumhalf Mohammed Omollo received a pass from Stanley Isogol and showed the KCB defence a clean pair of heels to touch down at the centre with Henry Ayah adding the extras and reduce the margin to 13-7. The introduction of Kenya sevens Andrew Amonde from the bench sparked the bankers into life as he scored a push-over try with Mukidza converting to widen the lead to 20-7. Mukidza who had a superb match at fullback then turned scorer as he landed at the corner in the space of a minute to lead 25-7 . Homeboyz got reprieve minutes later when Ayah slotted home a penalty to reduce the margin to 25-10. Peter Waitere then put the final nail in the coffin for the visitors with a well taken try and Mukidza converted for 34-10. Homeboyz got a consolation try courtesy of Bush Mwale at the death. Meanwhile, Quins moved up to fourth on the standings after beating Nondies 32-13 at the same venue. Try scorers for Quins were Peter Misango, David Ambunya , Idris Kakai, Malcolm Onsando and Alex Olaba. Lyle Asiligwa added two conversions and penalty for the winners who led 29-3 at the interval. Nondies tries were scored by Eric Okoma and Bryan Oyando with Martin Juma adding a penalty. Mwamba recorded their second win of the season after beating Menengai Oliers 27-15 , Blak Blad beat Strathmore Leos 24-22 who stay winless as Nakuru beat Mean Machine 29-19. The league now takes four week break for the Christmas and New Year holiday and will resume on January 12.