Differences in political ideologies between Kilifi governor Amason Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho seems to be dealing a blow to their comradeship. The split is mostly brought about by the desire by the two leaders to remain politically relevant after 2022. Kingi and Joho are both serving their second and last term as Governors and are not eligible for re-election as per the constitution. Though the two have been seen dancing together in daises, they have in some cases pulling in different directions politically. According to Kilifi North MP Owen Baya, there is a silent political rivalry between the two. Speaking to the Star, Baya observed that 2022 is the defining moment for the two governors. “Their personal relationship is still intact because they still talk much and wine and dine together. Each of them is trying to be in a position of influence in 2022,” said Baya. While Joho believes the Coast region is safer in ODM, Kingi believes having a Coast-based political outfit offers the solution to Coast’s leadership. “Joho’s proposition is in ODM. Him being the deputy party leader, he believes when Raila decides not to vie for the presidency in 2022 then he will automatically inherit the reigns of power from him. “This is different from Kingi who believes in forming another party that will be acceptable to the region and then look for a coalition with like-minded parties from other regions,” said Baya. Whereas Kingi appears to be consultative and accommodative, Joho appears to punish any leader who goes against him. “Joho would like to punish and remove any MP from ODM as long as he does not prescribe to his ideas. If you look at how he has been handling the Aisha Jumwa and Suleiman Dori cases you will understand what I mean. He even wants all MPs associated with Aisha and Dori punished. On the other hand Kingi has been talking to these MPs and even MCAs,” he added. James Mulei, a communications officer in Kingi’s office said the two are still buddies. “They do hang out together even on Friday after the launch of ‘This is Kilifi App’ they met and had drinks together. If there is any rivalry then they know how to conceal it,” said Mulei. During his inauguration attended by Joho in August last year at Karisa Maitha grounds in Kilifi, Kingi introduced Joho as his brother and a friend who he can take a bullet for. The two promised to go to a retreat immediately after Joho’s inauguration so as to agree between them who will carry the Coast’s leadership mantle. Both had declared interest for Kenya’s top political seat - the Presidency. It is now over a year and no pronouncement has been made by the two on who will support the other. “Both of us have declared to vie for the Presidency. He is a friend and a brother. He can take a bullet for me and I can take a bullet for him. After he takes his oath of office we will go into hiding together and you will see the white smoke. We will agree on who will be what,” said Kingi. In August, Kingi called for a meeting between all Coast Governors and all MPs from the region. The function was attended by 21 MPs but all other governors snubbed it. Neither did they send a representatives. However, Kingi said they had all promised to sanction their deliberations. He said Joho had traveled to Milan on official duties. “All the governors — Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta), Fahim Twaha (Lamu), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Hassan Joho (Mombasa) and Dhadho Godhana (Tana River) — are aware that we are meeting today, but could not attend. “Joho traveled to Milan, Italy, and the rest are occupied elsewhere. But they have told us they will adopt all the recommendations of this meeting,” he said. When he returned, Joho reportedly called for a meeting with all MCAs from the region in Mombasa. An MP privy to the arrangements said Joho had wanted to side-line Kingi in attending the meeting but a section of the MCAs said they would not attend if Kingi was not there. Alex Kasuku, a political analyst, said each of them seems to be planning to make a hole in the other’s boat. “These people have been singing ODM together but of late Kingi is changing tune. This is not only confusing but shows how the two are no longer pulling together politically. Joho knows he cannot do without Kingi and that’s why he does not want to show his rivalry publicly but it’s more evident than they may think,” said Kasuku Joho’s director of communication Richard Chacha denied any political differences between the two. Chacha said they both harbour similar goals and objectives. “What is happening now is that they have started a conversation with the people and they will respect what the people will say. You remember when they met MCAs at Flamingo they both said they will start a conversation and that is what they are doing. They may not think alike but they are very much together. Kingi is advocating for a Coast-based party but that is part of the conversation,” said Chacha. When Kingi failed to attend the Jumuiya ya Pwani Blue Economy pre-conference after his passport was allegedly stolen, speculation was rife that Kingi had faked the theft so as to skip the event after it was shifted from Kilifi county to Mombasa county. Baya however said Kingi had confided in him that he had indeed lost the documents. Similar sentiments were shared by Mulei.