 “Let me tell you about
the very rich. They are very different from you and me.” These words were pronounced
by F Scott Fitzgerald, the American novelist famous for writing The Great Gatsby in 1925. His observation was
affirmed in the 1950s through British social discourses where different classes
of people used different words depending on whether they belonged to the U class
meaning upper class or old money, or non-U class meaning aspiring or wannabes. One distinguishing
feature between the two was in their use of language. On one hand, the non-U
used terminology in an attempt to make them sound fancy, fashionable or
refined; while on the other hand, the U conversed in plain and traditional
words because they did not have the same need to seek a display of poshness.
For instance, the U say napkin, while the non-U say serviette, graveyard not
cemetery, lavatory not toilet, and spectacles not glasses, respectively. The variance between the
U and non-U class was epitomised this week when the latest member of the overnight
Kenyan multi-millionaire club member was unveiled, after suspected corruption
scandals were unearthed at the National Hospital Insurance Fund. He is a 39-year-old
whose day job is a desk clerk earning Sh150,000 a month. What qualifies him as
a non-U member was his lavish wedding, his number of upmarket houses, his chain
of businesses, his taste of high end cars and to crown it all, his choice of
transportation via a helicopter in a bid to escape the perennial Nairobi city
traffic jam that the rest of us mortals have to daily contend with. Allow me to
explain his non-U membership. People with old money or
those in the U class, consider public service as an obligation and honour that
comes with inherited wealth. They view this as their way of giving back to
society. However, non-U or new money views working for the government as an
opportunity to enrich themselves using taxpayers’ money. Based on investigation
reports, this receptionist was a member of the NHIF tender evaluation
committee. He has been charged with not complying with procurement laws and
procedures. It has been reported that shortly after he started serving on this
committee, he acquired eight houses totalling Sh160 million in his first year of
service. It has often been said
that ‘a man’s home is his castle.’ Homes for the U class are often baronial,
and without exception, they are all hidden from public view, either by acres of
forest or fortress walls. On the other hand, non-U homes are often glitzy and
their owners have an insatiable itch to display their abode. It is no wonder
that this receptionist’s home was featured in one of the national television
shows for all the world to partake of its opulence. It has also been said
that ‘you are what you drive.’ The U class view cars as a means of basic transportation
and not to attract attention. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, despite
being wealthy enough to daily buy one Ferrari that costs $253,000, drives a car
that is worth $30,000. However, the non-U class, buy cars to make a statement to
society that they have arrived. That is why this receptionist drives top of the
range vehicles such as Range Rover, and Toyota V8. There is a popular
British television series called Downton Abbey that depicts the lives of an
aristocratic family. One of the most famous lines in this series is ‘your lot
buys it, my lot inherits it.’ The U class values vintage furniture. Its handed
down from generation to generation. It is sentimental, classy, ubiquitous and
foliate. The non-U class prefer trendy commonplace furniture, which although is
expensive, it is not memorable. In the television programme that featured the
rich receptionist’s house, his wife told the show’s host that the value of
their renovated furnishings and fittings cost Sh40 million. But a couple of
months later, how many of us can recall what they looked like? The U class enjoys
entertaining their friends in their homes. They prefer home cooked meals and a
quiet evening with social banter. The non-U prefer to dine out like the rich
receptionist, who likes to dine at the Carnivore restaurant. The U class have no need
to display their wealth. In fact, they dislike talking about money unless they
are making an investment. The non-U class on the other hand talk about, and display
their new money at every opportunity. They do not know how to behave like they
own the gold mine. Kevin O’Leary, who is one of Shark Tank’s television programme
investor, has a net worth of roughly $300 million. He had a simple wedding
where he invited a few of his friends to his house and served them beer and
pizza. Our rich receptionist held a lavish wedding at one of the five star
hotels in Nairobi, at a cost of roughly Sh25 million. It is not in doubt that
we all want to be wealthy. But we just don’t understand what wealth really is.
And as elucidated above, having a lot of money is not the same as being
wealthy. This is because money is an illusion. It is not what money buys that
makes it valuable but rather how it is put to use that determines its value. If
it is used to make more, its value undeniably becomes more. While the U class become
a steward of their family’s wealth and multiplies it for future generations
through investments, the non-U class wastes it on lavish conspicuous
consumption. The cost of hiring a chopper is Sh130,000 per hour, roughly
equivalent to the rich receptionist’s one month’s salary. Parkinson’s law
states that expenses rise to meet income. Therefore to maintain this lifestyle,
the receptionist would have to earn a salary of Sh8 million per month. And that
is only for the cost of the chopper alone. It is rumoured that the CEO of Kenya
Commercial Bank Group earns roughly Sh7 million per month; and it is an open
secret what kind of work and responsibilities he shoulders. So begs the
question, what responsibilities would a receptionist have to undertake to
justify this kind of monthly earnings? Lastly, my unsolicited
advice to the rich receptionist and his ilk is nobody buys a diet book from a
fat guy. Likewise, you cannot dupe us with a multimillionaire lifestyle from
your puny monthly salary. And to the rest of us,
the U class buy investments; the non-U buy liabilities. Which one are you? I used to
be poor, then I bought a thesaurus; and now I’m impecunious - Unknown  