Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu will lobby governors to push the government to drops it's proposal to phase out 14-seater matatu's without proper procedures from next year. Waititu said the matatu crews will lose jobs, Sacco's will collapse and some will be left paying huge loans. "The government must consider that some people had borrowed money to buy new vehicles and they have not paid the loans. These traders have Sacco's and families to feed, where will all these people get money from? This is like sacking them" Waititu said. He was speaking at Kiambu county headquarters when he held a meeting with Matatu Owners Association officials from 9 counties around Mt Kenya region. They included Kiambu, Nairobi, Murang'a, Laikipia, Embu, Nyeri, Murang'a, Nyandarua and Narok. The governor urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack NTSA boss Francis Meja for not advising the government properly on issues regarding public service vehicles. Waititu faulted the National Transport and Safety Authority and the ministry of transport for not involving MOA in the proposal to phase out the 14-seater matatus and introduce the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT). "Meja has failed and misled the government. He allows talks with cartels who do not own a matatu. He never involves the industry players. We are asking our President to sack him today" he said. Waititu slammed his Nairobi counterpart Mike Mbuvi Sonko for attempting to eject PSVs from operating within City Centre, saying that was a metropolitan area for all Kenyans. The NTSA has proposed not to issue operating TLB licenses to 14 seater matatu's plying Nairobi routes from February 2019. Mt Kenya region MOA chairman Joseph Mungai appealed to the President to protect the industry saying over 90 per cent of PSV operators run 14-seaters and phasing them out will be a major blow to the transport sector. He added that they had complied with NTSA and traffic requirements which are known as Michuki rules, saying if they heard the government and fulfilled its rules, they must be heard. Mungai said seasons and time phases matatu's out, saying many years ago, people used to travel with face me pick up matatu, Peugeot station wagon, and are no longer in service. Waititu promised to lobby governors as well as the President, adding they will hold a meeting of MOA members at Kirigiti stadium on January 19, next year. However, MOA led by Mungai, endorsed Waititu as their patron.