The government has taken a U-turn over the implementation of the new curriculum for PP1, PP2, grades 1,2 and 3. This comes after Education CS Amina Mohamed on Saturday announced that the curriculum will be implemented starting January 1 and not in 2020 as earlier indicated. Amina had on Tuesday last week said the country is not ready for the new school curriculum. She said the ministry will roll it out when there are teaching materials, teachers trained, and infrastructure put in place. She said the postponement would allow for more stakeholder consultation "The design is fantastic. The devil is in the details of implementation. We need to have all the stakeholders on board," Amina said. She said poor planning and a hasty roll out led to the failure of the national roll out, which had been planned for January 2019 . A Multi-sectoral National Steering Committee found several problems that hindered successful roll out. They include inadequate alignment in the formulation of the curriculum, teacher capacity development, selection and supply of learning materials and assessment. This led to improper coordination, Amina said. Read: Kenya not ready for new curriculum roll out - CS Amina But on Saturday through a statement, Amina said the government will stick to the plan to implement the new curriculum in January. "......The ministry wishes to announce that it will commence a methodical and carefully organised phased roll-out of the CBC effective 1s January, 2019 in Pre-Primary 1 and 2 and grades 1,2 and 3," read part of the statement. Amina said her Ministry will in the new year issue a detailed roll-out and timetable for the other grades that will lead to the last cohort of students sitting for KCPE in 2023 and KCSE in 2027. This is, however, seen as a result of pressure from Statehouse to see the CBC bee implemented. There has been a public uproar and legal tussles over the manner in which the CBC is being rolled out. Stakeholders had criticised the education sector for not fully consulting before implementation. KNUT Sec General Wilson Sossion said the implementaion of the CBC was bound to fail because there was no proper consultation. Sossion who doubles up as nominated MP said KNUT will not support any plan that will opress the learners and teachers. But Amina said there will be continued consultations with intense in-training for the teachers before March 2019. The Kenya Publishers Association has commended the new plan saying they are ready for the roll out. Chairman Lawrence Njenga said so far the association has used some Sh5 to print some 14 million books which are in stores. Njenga said some 400,000 other books have already been distributed across the country. "We have enough books to be distributed at the ratio of 1:1 and for us we are fully ready for the roll out," Njenga said. Also Read: Pupils in three classes to take new curriculum from January Click here for the latest political news