Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny on Sunday said parastatal chiefs from the Kalenjin community linked to graft should carry their own cross. Kuttuny said the war on graft should not be linked to 2022 politics or claims that it was being used to undermine Deputy President  William Ruto. He dismissed as baseless claims that allies of DP Ruto from the Kalenjin community were being targeted in the war on graft. The legislator said the National Cereals and Produce Board is in problems that have affected farmers under the watch of  people from Rift Valley. "The farmers who are suffering are also Kalenjins and yet some of these leaders are not coming out to speak for the farmers but are very loud in defending individuals," Kuttuny said. Read: SANG: Are Kalenjin CEOs corrupt or just victims of circumstances? He said individuals from the community implicated in graft should not drag the community into their problems. "They steal resources from Kenyans and use it on their own. They never invite Kalenjins to get a share of the stolen resources", he added. Kuttuny said institutions fighting graft have been releasing long lists of suspects including people from all communities and those from Rift Valley should not consider themselves special. "We urge the DCI and DPP Noordin Hajji to tighten the noose on anyone linked to corruption without relenting", he said. A section of Rift Valley leaders including Senator Samson Cherargei and Aldai MP Cornel have claimed that the war on graft is politically targeting people from the region to undermine Ruto. "We know it's Ruto they are targeting because of 2022 elections", Cherargei said. Read: Rift MPs furious over graft purges But Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Moiben MP Sila Tiren said they also fully back the war on graft. Kuttuny, Keter and Tiren caused a storm last month when they demanded that DP Ruto be probed over the maize and fertilizer scandals. "Those who fear investigations have something to hide and that is their own problem. Let them pay for their own sins", Kuttuny said. Click here for the latest political news