For the longest time I’ve toyed with idea of writing an article spun (as in woven) from quotes. Brief though a quote may be, when you derive the meaning, you can spin and weave an article out of it, I think. The thing though about quotes, famous ones or inspiring or philosophical, is that they can be a bit ho-hum, especially when you consider that more than few readers have come across many a quote. Unless, of course, they’re absurd quotes – those you don’t run into often, so let’s see what article can come out of such quotes. Forgiveness means giving up all hope for a better past – Lily Tomlin, actress, writer, comedian This also applies to forgetting, and considering the year we’ve had in Kenya, this is a quote we should take to heart. In January, there was an inauguration at Uhuru Park that had consequences and repercussions that include a dramatic deportation from Kenya of a Kenyan, and the closing of television stations. In March there was a ‘handshake’ that brought the hullabaloo around presidential elections to an end. It also apparently returned Kenya back to ‘no-opposition’ rule. In August, buildings and malls were demolished. This led to Kenyans unintentionally learning two things: the meaning of the word ‘riparian’ and that ‘Sany’ is a Chinese company that makes excavators. What’s most relevant to ordinary Kenyans about 2018, however, is that it was not a good year for business. That said, Kenya is still here, you’re alive, obviously, and we live in a part of the world where there are no hurricanes. All things considered, 2018 may not have been great for many, but there’s nothing to be done about the past other than to forgive and forget. Otherwise, you’d be hoping for a better past, instead of a better future. And speaking of better and the future, on the sixth of this month, the county government of Nairobi banned matatus from getting into the city centre, forcing people to ‘exercise’, faint and get mugged. The idea behind the ban was to better the bad traffic in Nairobi. It achieved the exact opposite. Fortunately, the ban was lifted quickly and by the end of that week, the Transport CS was telling us about future plans afoot to implement something called integrated train and high-capacity bus transport system, to improve the traffic situation. To this end, 11 trains and 64 high-capacity buses have been promised to arrive by early next year. Sometimes all you need is a billion dollars – Anonymous Kenya is deep in debt, so to me, and I hope I’m wrong, this integrated transport system business sounds like a Christmas wish at best or a New Year’s resolution. And we all know the deal with New Year’s resolutions – not happening. And while we’re on the subject, 2019 will be upon us in about two weeks, and one of the most common resolutions made in this time of year by happily single people is to get into a relationship, hopefully before February 14.  It’s great to have goals and really go for it, but with love, all you can do is be open to it, and wait for it to find you. Not necessarily before Valentine’s, but it will come to you. Forcing love is, well… Love is like a fart, if you have to force it, it’s probably shit – Anonymous