The government is considering to provide literature setbooks to 1.4 million students in Form 3 and 4 that would significantly lower book costs for students. The Star has established that the purchase and distribution is expected to begin in January under the under the textbook distribution policy. The policy introduced last year mandates the ministry of education through the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development with the task of purchasing and distributing the textbooks. The policy came to be following a joint World Bank-Government team focused on reforming procurement and distribution systems. The objective was to reduce textbook price, while maintaining a high quality of printing, paper and binding. The team identified a core textbook for each subject and each grade, which the government could buy and provide to each child, with a focus on improving the efficiency of distribution. Under the policy, government supplied 33 million text books to schools beginning January at a cost of Sh7.5 million. The new directive by Education CS Amina Mohamed will save millions of Form 3 and 4 parents from the burden of acquiring the setbooks. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi yesterday said the project could see a reduction in the price of the setbooks. "The first tranche of textbook distribution this year saw the government save 13 billion because it was centralized and publishers were able to give a wholesale price thus cutting the cost by almost 65 per cent," Njagi said. Read: EDITORIAL: Shield purchase of setbooks from graft Sources at KICD said inclusion of setbooks to the distribution policy is expected to cost at least Sh500 million. The ministry guidelines requires students to acquire three setbooks for fasihi and three for literature that are used for five years. Two of the books are compulsory while students are required to purchase an extra book from three optional books. Currently, compulsory English texts are 'Blossoms of the Savannah' and 'A Doll’s House' while the optional English Literature set books are ‘The Pearl’, 'Memories we Lost' and Other Stories ', and 'Inheritance'. Fasihi ya Kiswahili has 'Chozi la Heri', 'Kigogo' (Storymoja), and 'Tumbo Lisiloshiba na Hadithi Nyingine'. Speaking to the Star Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi welcomed the move citing it would lessen the burden on students from poor families acquiring books. See: Education Ministry releases list of approved secondary schools set books According to him, teachers have had difficulties in teaching Literature and Fasihi as not all students have the set books. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi further said the move will further help fight piracy that has clouded the publishing industry for years. "Teachers have a hard time when they go to a class and some students do not have setbooks. With the introduction of a centralised distribution then there will be no reason a student will lack books," Kahi told the Star yesterday. Click here for the latest political news