Two Pwani University students drowned separately in Kilifi during Christmas celebrations. Cruzze Mutsoli, a second-year student at the School of Pure and Applied Sciences, was swimming near Baobab public beach. David Mong’are, a second year BA Economics student, died in Makuti Villas swimming pool on the outskirts of Kilifi town. He was to have lunch with his brother Shadrack Moturi and the brother’s wife. “Before the food was served, Mong’are decided to swim. He dived in. I asked him if the pool was deep. I decided to join him in the pool and went to the changing room. When I came back I saw the pool attendant removing someone from the water. I decided to help,” Moturi said. He realised it was Mong’are when they were giving first aid. Mong’are was pronounced dead at Mephi Hospital and his body taken to Jocham Hospital mortuary. Moturi blamed the hotel for the death, saying it has failed to provide enough pool attendants. “There was only one pool attendant who was managing the whole crowd. At the same time he was the one in charge of issuing tickets, so it was hard for him to establish if someone was in danger. My brother died because we did not know when he needed help,” Moturi said. Makuti Villas manager dismissed the claim. “Usually, we have one full time attendant and someone else to help him. During the incident, there were several people who included parents who were watching their kids swim. It is very hard to establish when one is enjoying the swimming or is drowning unless he shouts for help,” he said. In the other incident, Mutsoli was found on the shores of the Indian Ocean at Baobab beach. Francis Kibet said they had spent the better part of the day celebrating Christmas at a friend’s place before they went to the beach. “We were invited for Christmas by Mutsoli’s friend [Mama Joy]. We celebrated well and at around 3pm we decided to go to the beach and relax — the two of us together with Mama Joy’s four children who had their friends too,” he said. The body was taken to Kilifi County Referral Hospital mortuary.