MOMENTS after the Supreme Court upheld the election of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter (pictured), a heated debate ensued in a Whatsapp group which has majority of Jubilee MPs. A source who is a member of the group whispered to Corridors that MPs, mostly from Rift Valley, argued that Keter who has become the chief critic of the Deputy President William Ruto could be embolden with the ruling. Others are said to have held the opinion that even though the ruling was in his favour, his days were numbered as he will not get a third chance come the 2022 General Elections. Keter is said to enjoy unvetted access to President Uhuru Kenyatta and has a backing of powerful individuals around the President. THIS week Corridors told you of expectations MPs had before they break for the long recess. They expected President Uhuru Kenyatta to give them Christmas pocket money as has been the tradition in the previous years. After the special sitting of the National Assembly on Tuesday, an MP from Nyanza region has become a permanent feature along the Corridors of Parliament raising the question: Could he be broke? Majority of MPs are either on holidays out of the country with their families or in the constituencies. Restaurant services in Parliament have also been closed and no one knows what fun the first time legislator is enjoying in such an lonely place now. A former MP from the Western region who a board chair of a top communication state agency has left the secretariat and fellow board members puzzled with his unending illegal demands. Each month the former MP who resides in Nairobi claims to be travelling from his rural home to Nairobi for numerous meetings. In return, he demands he be paid for fuel allowances and to be booked in six-star hotel. The man, known for taking advantage of girls who used to seek help from him, is always accompanied with young naïve women who share the hotel. But are these allowances and demands legitimate especially for a non-executive chairman? THERE is apprehension in a camp opposed to a South Rift governor after a leading blogger and critic went silent after shaking hands with the governor in an event last week. The erstwhile ubiquitous blogger, was a thorn in the flesh of the governor, gaining fame for unearthing scandals to the embarrassment of the administration and delight of her detractors. The blogger is yet to clear the air on his next move in spite of taunts on social media. It remains to be known whether his silence is the spirit of Christmas or ‘handshake. If it is the latter, then the governor will have it easy in the new year on social media. Click here for the latest political news