Police officers suspected to have killed five people at Kolongolo market in Trans Nzoia have not yet been arrested or arraigned in court. This emerged on Thursday during an interdenominational church service for the victims. The leaders and residents who spoke during the service questioned why Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet have remained quiet over those behind the shootings. It is alleged that police officer Peter Kamau and other police reservists who were involved in the killings have still not been apprehended. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa asked Matiang'i not only to transfer the officers at the Kolongolo Patrol Base but also take disciplinary action against them. "Only transferring the officers is not enough, because they will transfer the same mistakes elsewhere," Wamalwa said. The CS said the officers should behave like servants because the Constitution changed from the previous police force to that of a police service which should now diligently serve Kenyans. Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangu'la took issue with Boinett saying he has taken the matter lightly. "Instead of the IG saying the officers should be arrested and order for investigations, he went on TV to defend the killers. Boinett you have no business of being the head of police," an angry Wetang'ula said. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa who donated Sh100,000 to the bereaved families asked the government to compensate them and ensure the officers who killed five are immediately arrested and taken to court. Those killed were Joseph Wandera 68, Patrick Wanyonyi 56, Maurice Walela 26, Stephen Almasi 29, and Bernard Wanjala 23. It is alleged that officer Kamau went to arrest Dan Juma, a resident after he differed with his wife but the residents resisted resulting into the five being shot and killed by the officers. Women representative Janet Nangabo asked women in the area to solve their family differences through the church or elders instead of involving the police. Others who attended the service were area MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu and a host of MCAs. The church handed the bodies to the families after the service where each family will arrange their own burial dates.