Experienced duo of Rhoda Kuira and Beatrice Mbugua have been included in the United States International University Africa women’s team ahead of this weekend’s Hockey Africa Cup of Club Championship (ACCC) in Abuja, Nigeria. The two have not featured for the students, who finished fourth in the just concluded Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women’s Premier League at the City Park Stadium due to work commitment. Team coach Willis Okeyo said the availability of the two players in the 16-member squad is a huge boost ahead of the December 15 -22 event. Okeyo said the two are very experienced, having played in the national team unlike the remaining players. “It’s a huge boost to have the two players in the team. Some of the players in the squad were recruited just the other day and really, they don’t have the experience and exposure. However, we will be out to learn from other clubs a thing or two,” said Okeyo who also feature for the former KHU men’s Premier champions Kenya Police. He added: “Save for the occasional poor weather conditions, the training has been good and we are just tightening on a few loose ends before we depart for the host nation on Thursday morning. We, however, remain indebted to the school management for giving us a chance to compete in event. It will be our first time but we will try and do our best.” He said they have picked a lot of positives from the just concluded season despite placing fourth. “We have a young squad who are ready and willing to learn. We might not have finished in the position we wanted but we are encouraged by the fact that in the coming season, we will be challenging for the title,” observed Okeyo. The students, alongside regular and former champions Telkom, will represent the nation at the event in the women’s category. Squad—Goalkeepers: Nouvella Becca, Teresa Wamaina; Defenders: Pauline Kariuki, Phanice Ayieko, Redempta Wambalaba, Beatrice Mbugua and Agripina Misoi; Midfielders: Grace Makokha(captain), Harriet Omindi, Horence Karanya and Racheal Wangui; Strikers: Rhoda Kiura, Mana Veronica,Stacy Tumaini, Perez Akinyi and Ruth Wangechi.