Two top KCPE candidates from Nyalenda in Kisumu on Monday received sponsorship for their secondary education. Gilani Foundation, Mayfair Holdings and James Were Foundation gave the students cheques for their fees. Slum boys Onyango Byron (Pand Peiri Primary School) and Sylvester Omondi (Joel Omino Primary)  topped in the schools. They scored 426 and 414 marks in the exams, respectively. Were said the students deserved support for their hard work. He appealed to other needy students to help needy, bright students. “We started this programme five years ago to sponsor students from the slum each year. We motivate them so that they can work hard and feel that there are people somewhere valuing their education," Were said. Both Onyango and Omondi could not hide their joy. They were full of smiles while receiving their first term fee cheques from Mayfair Holding General Manager Pals Wagenaar. The students will join Maranda Boys and Kakamega High School. Onyango, 13, wants to study medicine after high school. He is happy to go to the school of his choice. "This is a great opportunity. I won’t let down my sponsors down because not many students from where I came from get such an opportunity," he told the Star. "This support is a guarantee that we will learn in first term without any hiccup. We will perform well to prove that the support was well deserved."  Mayfair Holding Limited Group General Manager Pals Wagenaar presents a cheque to Sylvester Omondi on Monday, December 31, 2018. /FAITH MATETE Omondi, 16, wants to be a pilot. He thanked God for the opportunity and is happy the foundation has the interest of slum students at heart. His sister said, “My brother could have not attended Kakamega High without help. We could not afford his fees, I'm happy he is going to his dream school. I know he won’t let us down." Gilani Foundation and Mayfair Holdings gave Sh400,000 cheques to bright needy students. The recipients were present to receive their cheques. Click here for the latest political news  