Fifty-two year-old Musa Onduso sits on an old rug at the corner of his small room in deep thoughts. Only four years ago, Onduso could afford basic needs with the Sh7,000 monthly salary he earned as a  Karuturi Flower Farm worker. He no longer has the energy to go out and look for menial jobs. He says he goes without a meal for days. “I depend on well-wishers,” he said with a frail voice. “Life has become unbearable. Eating is a must but finding the food is a big problem. I fall asleep not knowing whether I will ever see another day,” he said. Onduso’s left side is  paralysed. He also has an eye problem with no access to medical care. “I feel like I have been left here to wait for my death,” Onduso says. As a Karuturi worker, Onduso used to get treatment from the now non-functional Karuturi Hospital in Naivasha. The hospital was in the farm. Now, all Onduso does is lie on the floor hoping someone will come knocking with help. Samson Auda, a representative of former Karuturi workers, says Musa is one of the many ex-employees in urgent need of help.  “Mzee Musa has no money to seek medication. The other workers are almost equally desperate,” Auda said. A stone throw away from Onduso’s house is a makeshift home where Margaret Ouma lives. She steps out with a baby in her hands. A tube loosely hangs from the child’s stomach. “My son Jeny Ouma has a condition that makes him unable to either eat or talk. The treatment is too expensive for me because I’m jobless,” says the 26-year-old woman. Margaret has a wet piece of cloth which she places on the boy’s chest from time to time hoping it relieves his pain. Her husband took off a few years into their marriage. “We are only waiting on God. When I worked in the flower farm, I had access to the hospital. Now the hospital is gone and I have no job. The burden is heavy and painful,” she said. Both Mzee Musa and Margaret said their situation has worsened since Karuturi was put under CFC Stanbic Bank’s receivership in February 2014. Before then, Karuturi ran a 100-bed capacity hospital where workers and their families were treated. “The receiver managers closed down the hospital,” Auda said. Karuturi had 2,700 workers with 2,200 employed on permanent terms. All the workers were housed with free water and electricity.  They grew subsistence food on a piece of land on the flower farm. The company also put up a school in the area. The new managers wanted to close down Karuturi Secondary School but the workers resisted the move and opted to pay teachers from their pockets. But  they can no longer afford it and the tutors have threatened to leave. They are owed in excess of Sh200,000. “We don’t know whether the school will still be running in January. It will most probably be closed down,” he said. Most Karuturi ex-workers went into depression after losing their jobs. Their representatives say efforts to reach the authorities for help have been unsuccessful. “We have written many letters to various authorities including EACC, KRA, CBK, Treasury, Parliament, Nakuru county government, the county assembly, DPP, DCI for help. All they have done is promise action,” Auda said. Auda said the ex-workers have decided to occupy the land and cultivate it for a living. The workers are owed more than Sh200 million. They have formed a cooperative which they want to register through the help of a well-wisher. “Our plan is to raise capital and start farming. Some of the crops we are considering include maize and avocadoes. We hope that we will be able to utilize the farm until such a time that we get all our benefits,” Auda said. Ouda said the bank’s is only interested in selling the farm to recover loans and not the welfare of former workers. “We attended a court hearing on August 15. There was no mention of the plight of workers nor how they would be paid their benefits,” he said. A ruling is set to be delivered by the Court of Appeal tomorrow. “We’re waiting for it (ruling) with bated breath,” Auda said. In an affidavit filed in court on March 15, 2016, the ex-workers said the bank embarked on an harassment and discrimination spree against the employees and failed to settle their salaries. They said the receiver managers suppressed and distorted sales to divert revenue. The ex-workers filed a criminal case against the executives of Stanbic Bank for criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, falsification of accounts leading to loss of service benefits by workers and embezzlement with intention to fraud. An attempt to forcefully evict the workers from their houses was contested and a stay order granted by the Employment and Labor Relations Court in Nakuru. “The Appeal Court ruling will mean a lot to us. We might not have money to spend during this festive season but a favourable judgment will be a big Christmas gift for us,” Auda said. The firm’s executive director Yeshoda Karuturi said, “We are saddened by the situation the employees find themselves in.” She said they provided free healthcare, education and housing for the well-being of employees. Yeshoda said they were in the process of getting back control of the firm.“We promise to restart the hospital, ensure the schools don’t close and employ the former workers and pay their dues,” she said. A senior manager from Stanbic Bank declined to comment on the matter saying that would be subjudice.