Kiambu residents were left angered with their leaders during Wednesday's visit by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The residents were unhappy with their MPs for not highlighting their problems when Uhuru came to launch the Rais Mashinani programme. Residents who spoke to the Star said their leaders largely focused on alcoholism and rehabilitation of youth at the expense of development which they were eagerly waiting for. "The leaders were engaged in a supremacy battle, trying to do each other over who has taken the most number of people to rehab centres due to alcoholism. We have many issues we needed to be addressed like the revival of tea and coffee sector, unemployment and many other pressing development projects," said Wambui wa Githurai. The residents took to different social media groups to vent their anger on the leaders saying that they only pursued their own selfish interests rather than those for the electorate. "We voted for brokers rather than service deliverers, we never knew but time has spoken failure of decades. Next time we choose wisely not based on feelings," read a post in Uteti wa Kiambu WhatsApp group. Alice Nyokabi, another resident lashed out at Kiambu Town MP Jude NJomo who told the president that the county had nothing to ask from the national government since they were satisfied. "Our MP cannot say that Kiambu residents have nothing we want from the government yet we have bad roads, there are still people living in poverty and unable to pay school fees, our hospitals have medicine and we need more schools," Nyokabi said. During Uhuru's visit, governor Ferdinand Waititu highlighted how his government has rehabilitated over 6,000 youths from alcoholism through the Kaa Sober programme. He asked the president to provide financial assistance to the recovering addicts as they are owed over Sh60 million by the county. The rehabilitating addicts are paid Sh400 daily from engaging in exercises such as street cleaning, cutting of grass bushes and unclogging drainage tunnels. The county has also enrolled them in polytechnics on courses of plumbing, electrical engineering, tailoring, and hairdressing. Uhuru promised to work with the county in a programme to enroll youths through Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) to empower them. Kiambu county women representative Gathoni Wamuchomba had a rough time addressing the crowd who booed her throughout her speech as she talked about rehabilitating alcohol addicts. "These people who are booing me hate me because I challenged the governor on the issue of giving them money for being rehabilitated," Wamuchomba said. However, Uhuru's visit was boycotted by a number of MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto. The only MPs to attend the function were Njomo, Wamuchomba, Francis Munyua (Juja), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South) and Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town). Senator Kimani Wamatangi said that it was important that leaders not to publicly show problems related to national government functions but instead allow dialogue and show respect for one another.