More than 300,000 people living with HIV-Aids have no access to life-saving antiretroviral drugs as infections rise among adolescents and the youth. According to the Health Sector Working Group report released by the government on Wednesday, adolescents continue to bear the brunt of HIV, with 49 per cent of all new infections being among young people. This revelation paints a grim picture despite intensified efforts in the war against the disease. The report covers financial years 2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18. It says HIV remains the leading cause of disease burden in the country, accounting for more than 29 per cent of all hospital deaths and 15 per cent of the otal disease burden in disability adjusted life years. HIV prevalence in the country is about 4.9 per cent, translating into about 1.5 million people. Of this, 1.2 million are on ARVs and about 400,000 lives have been saved. The high infection rates among adolescents and young people could be scarier to parents during this long December festive season. Pregnancies have been on the rise among schoolgirls, indicating increased sexual activity. low mother-child transmission Despite the worrying statistics, measures put in place appear to be effective in preventing mother-to-child transmission. More pregnant women receive drugs — 94 per cent of pregnant women in 2015-16, 95 per cent in 2016-17 and 96 per cent in 2017-18. “This led to reduction in the number of mother–to–child transmissions by half,” the report says. The number of people going for tests also increased. The report cites over-reliance on donor funding for the anti-HIV-Aids war, now standing at 75 per cent, as the main impediment. “The donors are not scaling up their financial support because of other competing priorities or needs,” it says. “This calls for sustainable and innovative financing from domestic sources.” The document says the classification of Kenya as a lower-middle income country in 2014 appears to have hurt the fight against the disease as the country may no longer be able to procure ARVs and related commodities using the pre-negotiated prices meant for poor countries. “The country is, therefore, expected to contribute more funding to HIV-Aids,” it says. Click here for the latest political news