Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has warned cartels against invading public and private land in Mavoko, Machakos county. He said those who have invaded other people’s land in the subcounty must vacate. Matiang’i said there must be order in land ownership, not only in Machakos but the entire country. “We will clean up and everyone should stay on his or her land. Those who have grabbed land will have to exit,” the CS said. Matiang’i spoke at Slota estate in Athi River on Tuesday. The CS said he is in talks with Lands CS Farida Karoney. He said the Interior ministry will take over once the Lands ministry is done with its work on disputed land in Machakos county. Matiang’i directed assistant county commissioners, chiefs and assistant chiefs to partner and help residents. He was accompanied by Machakos county commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo, Athi River deputy county commissioner David Juma, Machakos police commander Samwel Mukindia, assistant county commissioners, chiefs, assistant chiefs, the clergy and members of the public. Gaza gang In January this year, Mlolongo assistant county commissioner David Mukung’ said members of the outlawed Gaza gang had invaded private and public land. He said they had changed tack and are posing as land brokers in that part of Machakos county and its environs. Mukung’ said the thugs carried out armed robberies and burglaries in Mlolongo before resorting to land grabbing. They targeted gas cylinders and electronics shops and M-Pesa outlets. He said several gangsters had settled in Mlolongo town while others have moved to Nairobi. “Land grabbing is on the rise in Mlolongo but we will ensure only genuine owners retain parcels,” he said. Mukung’ warned the public against dealing with brokers who do not have genuine documents. In May, Athi River deputy county commissioner Juma put on notice cartels grabbing land and selling it to private developers. Juma said the government will not allow land grabbing. Residents have complained of grabbing of school playgrounds and public land. “They have grabbed parcels of land for public utilities. Some former politicians are part of the syndicate,” Mlolongo chief Peter Ndunda said. Ndunda said grabbers had taken over all public land in the area. He said they grabbed land set aside for an AP post. Juma said the government would repossess the plots.