Debutants Shabana will be out to extend their unbeaten run in the National Super League when they host a win-less Migori Youth today at Gusii Stadium in the fourth round of the season. The star studded Shabana have won all their opening three matches and sit second with nine points and will hope to maintain their perfect start in line with their dream of returning to the top flight after many years in the cold. The clash pitting leaders Wazito and Kibera Black Stars headline the triple header lined for Camp Toyoyo. The revamped Wazito lead the standings courtesy of their healthier goal difference and will accost Kibera who are yet to win a match and are placed 17th on the log. The match will be curtain raised by the encounter pitting FC Talanta and Coast Stima. Talanta are fourth with six points and will be looking to avenge their last week’s 2-0 loss to Kisumu All Stars against the power men who are tenth with four points. Kenya Police and Administration Police open proceedings in a midmorning encounter dubbed as Police Derby. Kenya Police are sixth with six points while the paramilitary team are seventh with five points. A revitalised Kisumu All Stars host St. Joseph Youth at Moi Stadium. Kisumu are eighth with three points while St. Joseph are second from bottom. Kisumu will count on home advantage and the new motivation following the move by the County Government of Kisumu to give the players and technical bench permanent jobs. High flying debutants Eldoret Youth will play Kangemi All Stars at Sudi Stadium seeking to extend their fine start in their maiden second tier season. Eldoret are perched fourth with six points while Kangemi are 13th with three points. Bottom-placed Nairobi City Stars will be eying their first win when they play Bidco United at Thika Stadium. The match will later pave way for Thika United who are lined up to tackle newbies Fortune Sacco. Thika, who were dropped from the top tier last season, are 12th with three points while the newcomers are above them with a similar tally.