The Kurds are like tissue. You use them, and then you throw them away. The Kurds of Syria are frantically digging trenches around their cities and towns just south of the Turkish border, because Turkish President Recep Tayyib Erdogan said on Monday that US President Donald Trump gave a “positive response” to his plan for an invasion of Kurdish-controlled territory in Syria. On Wednesday Trump confirmed it by announcing he will pull all US troops out of Syria within 30 days. Erdogan would have invaded long ago if the US Army and Air Force were not protecting the Syrian Kurds, but at that time the US depended heavily on the Kurds in its campaign to eliminate Islamic State. IS controlled the eastern third of Syria, and it was the Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) who provided most of the ground troops for that campaign. There were some 2,000 US troops in eastern Syria too, but it was the Kurds who bore the brunt of the fighting and the casualties. Indeed, a principal role of the US forces was to deter Turkey from attacking the Kurds, because Turkey, at war with its own big Kurdish minority, strongly opposed the Syrian Kurds’ ambition for independence. But now Islamic State has been destroyed (or at least so Trump believes), and the US has no further need of the Kurds. Deprived of US air support, the Syrian Kurds have little hope of resisting a Turkish invasion. So where can the Kurds turn? Only to Damascus, where Syrian dictator Bashar al-Assad has sworn to recover “every inch” of Syrian territory from the various rebel militia forces that controlled different parts of the country. All that remains to fulfill that ambition is the recovery of Idlib province in the northwest, still held by Turkish-backed Islamist extremists, and the Kurdish-controlled northeast. For the Syrian Kurds, reeling from the American betrayal, the urgent question has become: Would you rather be conquered by the Turks or by Assad? There is no third option: The dream of independence is dead. Assad’s rule is unattractive, but the Syrian Kurds have carefully avoided fighting his forces (they fought only IS), and they might have been able to cut a deal that left them some local autonomy. After all, Assad doesn’t want the Turks taking control of eastern Syria either. The Kurds aren’t fools, and as the likelihood of an American defection grew in the course of this year they sent several delegations to Damascus to see what Assad would offer. They came back disappointed, because Assad did not want to do anything that would open the door to a federal state in Syria, and he quite rightly thought he had the upper hand. But now that the US pullout from eastern Syria and the Turkish invasion of the same region have both become imminent realities, he may want to think again. This is a part of Syria rich in oil, water and wheat. Assad needs its resources to rebuild the country, and a Turkish occupation could be long. It’s therefore possible he will make a deal with the Syrian Kurds to keep the region in Syrian hands. The return of the Syrian army would be tricky to manage, since to avoid clashes, it would have to arrive in each part of the region after the Americans left but before the Turks arrived. Moreover, the Syrian army is short of manpower, and this operation would require a lot of it. All the more reason to give the YPG a continuing role in the region’s security, the Kurds might argue, and it’s not impossible Assad might buy that argument provided the Kurdish militia became (at least in theory) a part of the Syrian army. So the Russians may be right. When Trump revealed via Twitter that he was going to pull all American forces out of Syria, Russian Foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova responded that the US decision could result in “genuine, real prospects for a political settlement” in Syria. Turkey could be convinced (by Russia) that letting Assad take control of Kurdish-majority parts of Syria is enough to end the alleged Kurdish “threat” to Turkish security. Then only the single province of Idlib would remain beyond Assad’s reach, and that’s not really a critical issue. In fact, the fix could be in already. We’ll know shortly. But no matter what, the Kurds lose again. Of course.