Final-term Coast governors want a three-tier form of government, popularly known as federalism, introduced for them to remain politically relevant in the region. With the presidency a “bridge too far” for either governor Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Salim Mvurya (Kwale), being regional king makers will be the option. None of them has the political capital that either Deputy President William Ruto and opposition leader Raila Odinga has. The region does not have a large enough vote basket to win the State House job. It is the reason the three are supporting constitutional change with the hope it includes federal governments. This system will mean the six counties can form a unit but remain independent in their affairs. The proponents of federalism want the former provinces transformed into 14 regional governments. The head of such unit is likely to hold a higher position than a governor. Kingi roots for at least 80 per cent of national revenue allocated to the federal regions while Joho proposes a 30 per cent allocation with each region having its own police officers. TOO YOUNG TO RETIRE “I will be political advisor in Mombasa after I finish my term. I will decide who fits. I will be looking for a bigger seat because I have a greater experience,” Joho said on Jamhuri Day. Political commentator Hassan Mwakimako says it will be easy for the governors to win a regional election than the presidency. “The presidency can be too long shot but it can still be used to negotiate for power,” Prof Mwakimako said on Friday. The governors were unavailable for comment but their heads of communication spoke to the Star. Kwale’s Daniel Nyassy said Mvurya is “too young to hang up his political boots.” “He’s angling for a national position which he has not disclosed. Voters also want him to continue serving them,” Nyassy said. His Mombasa counterpart Richard Chacha dismissed claims that Joho had dropped his presidential ambitions. “Federalism is a party position. Raila Odinga raised it first during the governors’ conference in Kakamega,” he said. Both Joho and Kingi are ODM members and would have a huge task of getting the party’s endorsement to run for president compared to Raila. Chacha explained that Joho had slowed down on politics to deliver is his election manifesto. “We can’t be keeping the country in an election mood forever,” he said, adding that Joho’s aggressive campaigns will be reignited as the 2022 general elections get near. “We have not fizzled out as claimed,” Chacha said. He said Joho roots for federalism because it resonates well with the people of the Coast. He said the region had always pushed for majimbo. “The system will improve the livelihoods of the people because they will enjoy benefits of their resources like the port. That is what Joho wants,” Chacha said. Mwakimako said the governors want to be regional kingpins. “An opportunity has risen for the governors to express their political idea and that of the people of the Coast who want federalism,” Mwakimako said.