Did politicians from Kiambu County really snub ODM leader Raila Odinga when he visited the region last week? Many are asking why they gave the event a wide-berth despite reports they had been invited to attend the event. One of the leaders from the region was overheard claiming that the reports of the snub were part of an elaborate propaganda geared at portraying Raila as having zero influence in President Uhuru Kenyatta's backyard despite the handshake. So when did President Uhuru Kenyatta realise that civil society is good in crusading for good governance? Some civil society activists were heard whispering that the President has eventually agreed with them that corruption is such a huge national challenge, he cannot win the fight alone. At the height of his trials at the International Criminal Court, Uhuru hated civil society. In fact, some State House operatives condescendingly referred to civil society as an evil society? Reason? They claimed civil society activists fixed Uhuru and his Deputy William Ruto at The Hague based Court. But on Jamhuri Day, Uhuru asked Kenyans to report cases of corruption to the media and civil society if the EACC and DCI fail to act. Maybe gazeti sio ya Kufunga nyama anymore. Embattled commissioners of an independent commission are the talk of the town. They are on overdrive to make money. The commissioners should be winding up ready for life outside the commission. But they are on daily trips and line up daily board meetings so they can earn allowances, a trend that they were never known for in their early days. Despite directives that they should not make long term decisions, since November, the commissioners are on a rush, not only to make decisions, but influence hiring of cronies and to push out staff they do not like. A Cabinet Secretary in one of the cash-rich ministries is a worried man. This is informed by the ongoing purge that has targeted top honchos in his powerful docket. The man, who last week sort protection from his godfather was shocked when his master denounced him. "I gave you the job ujisaidie kama hukujisaidia shida yako," the godfather is reported to have retorted when the CS asked for help. The worried CS is about to change homes, and even opts to sleep in hotels to avoid looming arrest. Click here for the latest political news