County governments have now raised concerns over the implementation of the Competence Based Curriculum. Through the Council of Governors, they claim pre-primary education is a county government function as enshrined in the Constitution. CoG says the county government is a critical stakeholder in all matters of pre-primary education. In a statement to newsrooms, chairman Josphat Nanok said despite plans to roll out the CBC starting January, the national government has not provided the costs of implementing the new curriculum. Nanok said county governments are not aware of the unit cost of implementing the CBC per child and have no information on estimated costs of each mandatory component of the CBC. "To this end, the Council of Governors urges the Ministry of Education to engage the county governments to ensure that all decisions on the implementation of CBC at pre-primary level are reached through mutual consultations and agreements," the statement reads. "Such decisions must consider and document possible fiscal and other related needs and risks." Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed had earlier said the country is not ready for the new school curriculum. She said the ministry will roll it out when there are teaching materials, teachers are trained and infrastructure in place "The design is fantastic. The devil is in the details of implementation. We need to have all the stakeholders on board," Amina said. Read: Kenya not ready for new curriculum roll out - CS Amina But in less than two days she backtracked on the statement and insisted that government has resolved to roll out the CBC in January. "......The ministry wishes to announce that it will commence a methodical and carefully organised phased roll-out of the CBC effective 1s January, 2019 in pre-primary 1 and 2 and grades 1,2 and 3," read part of the statement. Amina said her Ministry will in the new year issue a detailed roll-out and timetable for the other grades that will lead to the last cohort of students sitting for KCPE in 2023 and KCSE in 2027. Read: Amina changes tune, says new curriculum kicks off January The CoG, however, feels the government has not adequately prepared for the roll out and that there are serious gaps like mode of implementation that needs to be addressed. "Every year, county governments allocate on average 3.5 per cent of their budget share to education (VET and pre-primary). The roll out of CBC at county level may therefore have serious financial implications that are not manageable within our County 2018-2022 rolling budgets- the period in which the national CBC roll out shall happen," Nanok said.  