Is there a plan by some politician from Rift Valley to start a campaign discrediting the fight against corruption? Well, Corridors has it that some of the leaders from the populous region have been meeting to plot how and when to laucnh attacks on the director for Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji (pictured). The politicians are unsettled by recent wave of arrests which they say target their community members. Staff at Lake Victoria South Water Services Board can't wait for the mandatory vetting of civilian firearms holders to start as announced by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i. A director of the board has a tendency of brandishing his gun to staff members along the corridors as an intimidation tactic, a thing that has left staff scared with low morale. They are questioning how the rogue officer managed to get a license and want the Firearms Licensing Board to act and make him the first causality. Surprisingly, he says a senior official in the Ministry of Interior and National Coordination is his kinsman and nobody can touch him. A senior prison boss is a worried man. The worry is informed by the sustained ongoing purge against corruption that is slowly leaving his godfather exposed and in turn will see his errant ways exposed. The man, who used his powers to have the prison enterprise make and furnish hotels owned by top government official's hotels and homes in return for state protection is unsettled as the police start digging his past at the agency. A CEO of one of the state agencies that might be merged with another is the talk of the organisation. The man has been globe-trotting expeditions in the name of official trips. On each trip, he is accompanied by an escort girl or junior woman staff from the agency. What is shocking is that he signs his own per diems and other perks. However, his absence in office has made many of the staff happy as they can work without being micromanaged by the unprofessional boss. “When he is not around, things move. Let him stay in the plane,” an employee was overheard saying. Power can intoxicate. A senior official at the Directorate of Criminal Investigation headquarters we told you about weeks ago, is yet to surrender an office and still is calling the shot. The officer reports to work at Kiambu Road office and takes over all tasks which the successor should be handling. But it seems this will not go down without a fight as some are plotting to take her to court for taking in illegal allowances. Click here for the latest political news