A standoff looms between the Teachers Service Commission and
the teachers’ unions after the former yesterday announced mass transfers for head
teachers and principals from January 2019. The teachers’ employer said some 3094 primary school head teachers and secondary school principals will
be affected in the mass movements as schools reopen for first term in a
fortnight. The move could trigger a stalemate between giant teachers
unions who have previously opposed such mass transfers as discriminatory and
aimed at punishing teachers. The giant Kenya National Union of Teachers Knut had warned
to call a major strike for all its membership should TSC proceed to effect the transfers
without what they termed as "proper consultation." Teachers have objected to the delocalization programme which the commission says aims at posting teachers away from their home
sub-counties to foster national unity. Read: TSC targets thousands of teachers in third phase of transfers But yesterday, TSC maintained that the affected teachers must report
to their various stations for handover and taking over between December 28 and
31 ahead of the reopening of schools. “Accordingly, TSC County Directors should ensure that
handing/taking over will have been concluded by 28th December 2018 and a status
report submitted to the Director, Staffing by 31st December 2018. Any issues by
individual heads arising from the transfer will be handled by the receiving
County Directors who have been advised accordingly,” TSC said in a statement
last evening. The commission said it was effecting the transfers within
its mandate under the Teachers Service Commission Act, 2012 and the Code of Regulations
for Teachers (2015). The two mandate the commission to assign teachers for
service in any public school or institution, deploy and transfer teachers
across the country. This is primarily intended to achieve equity in teacher
distribution for improved learning outcomes in public schools, TSC said. Allaying fears of any mischief in the transfers, TSC said
the decision to move the affected teachers was done putting all factors into consideration. “In making the transfers, the Commission has considered
important factors such as number of years pending retirement as well as
exceptional circumstances such as health, where appropriate documentation is
available,” said TSC in the statement signed by head of communications Kihumba
Kamotho. Read: Mass teacher transfer ruins marriages, sex lives — Knut The new transfers will fill vacancies left by principals and
headteachers who attained the mandatory retirement age in the last three months.
In such cases deputy heads who have been acting and have shown exemplary
performance will either be confirmed, retained or promoted and moved to other
schools. “Inevitably, some of the serving heads have also been
transferred to take the positions that fell vacant. This is necessary in order
to match performance and experience to the enrollment and level of the
institutions,” said TSC. Changes have also been necessitated by the need to
strengthen management of some of the learning institutions following
recommendations from standards and assessment reports. In line with the TSC Policy on Appointment of Institutional
Administrators, some principals and headteachers who have served for a long
period in the same institution have been transferred. “It is intended that the transfer will provide them with a
new working environment and also tap into their vast experience,” the commission
said. The TSC said that in the transfers will affect some Heads of
Institution who had applied for transfers to new stations in the course of the
year. “Such applications are normally considered at the end of the
year to avoid unnecessary disruption in curriculum delivery, and after necessary
replacements have been made,” TSC added. More: TSC ignored order on teachers – Knut Click here for
the latest political news