Busia schools have for the third year in a row failed to register a single A grade in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. The last time schools in the county registered As in KCSE was in 2015. At least 315 candidates countrywide got As in this years' KCSE exam whose results were released on Friday by Education CS Amina Mohamed. Sigalame led in Busia with four students getting A-, Butula Boys had three whereas Nambale Boys had two students with A- (minus). Kolanya Girls, Moding, Fr Okodoi, and Bumala AC had one student each registering A-. Butula produced the best boy in the county, Dindy Bamwel Odhiambo, who scored an A- of 79 points. He was followed by Felix Wandera Ojiambo of Sigalame Boys with 78 points and AbnerDlamini Khuzwayo of Nambale Boys with 77 points. Sylvia Barasa of Kolanya Girls emerged the top girl in the county with 74 points. Small schools outshone the giants in quality grades. Omonya Samuel Ebela of Fr Okodoi Secondary in Teso South scored an A- of 75 points. The most improved student in the county is Okumu Oketch Stephen from Bumala AC who registered an A- of 75 points. He joined form one with 325 marks, thus emerging number 82 in the country with an improvement index of 34.227. Kamau Josphat Mwangi from Mioro Secondary School emerged the most improved student in relation to his KCPE performance. He scored an A- with improvement index of 79.466, having joined form one with 278 marks in KCPE. Related: How Josphat Mwangi beat odds to emerge most improved KCSE candidate Also read: Nyabisawa Girls, five other Migori schools miss KCSE results Knut Teso branch deputy secretary Olung’a Ekwenye exonerated teachers over the failure by schools in the county to register As for the last three years. "Teachers are putting their best but laxity among students is the cause of this failure to realise quality grades," he said. "Education stakeholders need to sit down and ascertain why quality grades have become elusive since 2016." Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong introduced laptops for all students who scored As in 2014 KCSE. No award has been given since 2016 because no student has scored a straight A. The best performance was recorded in 2013 when the county produced 15As with Butula leading with 8As. The number of As reduced to 11 in 2014 and to three in 2015. Also read: Kajiado candidate takes his life after failing to score A in KCSE See: List of top 100 KCSE 2018 exam candidates   