Controversial quack doctor Mugo wa Wairimu suffered a blow yesterday after the court declined to grant him bail. The fake doctor will remain in remand prison pending the hearing and conclusion of his trial. Last month Mugo denied the offense of operating a pharmacy without a valid certificate among other counts. Through his lawyer, he had pleaded with the court to release him on bail pending the hearing of his application arguing that the offenses he was charged with were all bailable. However, in her ruling Senior Principal Magistrate Martha Mutuku said there were strong compelling reasons for the accused not to be granted bail. "I find that stringent bind terms alone cannot guarantee or safeguard the integrity of the trial process neither cannot guarantee the process of the trial," Mutuku ruled. Read: Flying Squad arrests Mugo Wairimu in Gachie for running illegal clinic Mutuku further ruled that the prosecution had proven to court that there were indeed compelling reasons to warrant her to deny him bail. In their application, the prosecution had strongly opposed Mugo’s release on bail saying that he may skip court if released. One of the other ground was the fact that Mugo is likely to interfere with witnesses. The prosecution claims that on November 3, 2018, at Millan Health International Limited Kayole within Nairobi County, jointly with others not before court, he was operating a business illegally. Mugo was also charged with carrying on the business of a pharmacist in a premises not registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board on November 3, 2018 in Kayole. It is alleged that he was operating a medical laboratory without registration and license by the Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and Technologist Board. He has another case that is still ongoing where he was also charged with illegally operating a pharmacy. Mugo was exposed on TV showing him being secretly recorded treating patients and went underground when police sought to arrest him. Two of his employees Victor Gathiru Kamunya alias Doctor Victor and Risper Ouma Ogony who were arrested at his clinic also been charged. Read: Mugo’s mission to buy T-shirt led to his arrest See also: Two students charged with operating Mugo wa Wairimu’s clinic Click here for
the latest political news