Newly appointed AFC Leopards coach Marko Vasiljevic will look to start his tenure officially at the den on a winning note when he leads his charges against former champions Sofapaka in the third round of the SportPesa Premier League at Machakos Stadium. Leopards are yet to win a match this season having played Kariobangi Sharks to a one-all draw and lost 3-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz in their opening two matches and Vasiljec will hope to hit the ground running and prove his coaching credentials and ability to handle a club of Ingwe’s calibre at a young age. The youthful Vasiljevic took charge in the opening two matches albeit on interim basis following the mysterious exit of his boss Nikola Kavazovic who landed a better deal in South Africa. The Serb will hope to claw Sofapaka who will be eying to bounce back to their winning ways after last weekend’s 2- loss to Bandari and stamp his authority at the den. Statistics between the two lean towards Sofapaka as they have won ten out of the 22 encounters since their elevation to the top flight in 2009 with Leopards winning nine and three matches ending evenly. Leopards are currently placed 14th with a points while Sofapaka are eighth with three points. The match will be curtain raised by returnees KCB who will be seeking their first win of the season against a unbeaten Bandari. The bankers lost their two matches to Homeboyz( 1-0 ) and Ulinzi Stars ( 2-0 )while the dockers defied odds to floor champions Gor and Sofapaka in similar 2-1 score-line. In other matches lined up for the day, leaders Mathare United will be gunning to extend their stay at the top of the log when they play former champions Ulinzi Stars at Kasarani Stadium. Mathare have convincingly won their two matches and sit at the top of the log courtesy of their huge goal difference. The soldiers are ninth with three points. High flying Kakamega Homeboyz will be seeking to extend their unbeaten run when they play Western Stima at Moi Stadium Kisumu. Both teams have won their opening fixtures and sit second and fourth respectively. On Sunday, 11-time champions Tusker will be scratching for their first win of the season when they play a win-less Mt. Kenya United at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Tusker drew Sony Sugar 1-1 and lost 1-0 to Western Stima and are 12th while Mt Kenya are 16th.Vihiga United will play Sony Sugar at Bukhungu while Zoo Kericho will host Chemelil Sugar at Kericho Green Stadium.