Barring massive rigging
in the coming elections in the DRC, the ticket of Felix Tshisekedi and Vital
Kamereh are bound to win. Not only do they lead the two major opposition
parties, the UPDS and the UNC but are also widely known as representative
of the critics of the unpopular [President Joseph] Kabila regime. A recent opinion poll by
two reputable organisations, one inside the DRC and one based in the US, gave
the two 53 per cent of the votes in a free and fair election. It is to be noted
that one only needs a simple majority to win a presidential election in the
DRC. The controversy in the opposition circles is whether the opposition
should participate in an election where President Kabila calls the shorts. When Martin Fayulu was
nominated as the opposition candidate in Geneva at a meeting in mid-November,
the bone of contention was the inclusion in the MoU a condition that the
opposition would not participate in the election if electronic voting machines
were used in the election. The Fayulu group felt the machines would be used by
Kabila to rig. Tshisekedi and his team held that Kabila could rig or without
the machines. They further stated that what was important was to mobilise
voters in their millions, thereby making it near impossible to rig, if they
further guard the votes cast and counted. Since the two positions
were irreconcilable, Tshisekedi and his group decided to pull out from the MoU,
notwithstanding the fact that two other prominent opposition leaders, Jean Pierre
Bemba and Moise Katumbi held to the choice of Fayulu as the opposition flag
bearer. The DRC is a vast
country, with poor communication system and diverse cultural communities with
their own political and social differences, which are no doubt factors that
vote hunters must take into consideration. But Tshisekedi has a
head start over the other candidates. First, he has inherited a basket full of
his charismatic father's followers and supporters for whom the name Tshisekedi
is synonymous with the struggle against the unpopular regimes of Mobutu
and the two Kabilas. Second, his choice of Vital
Kamerhe as his running mate was arrived at after wide consultation with some
opposition heavy weights who, on their own, also matter in the DRC politics. Third, when Tshisekedi
returned home recently after a long stay abroad organising and campaigning for
opposition support, he was received in Kinshasa like a hero. It was remarkable
that people streamed from the provinces just to be present at his homecoming. He has strategically
cultivated support abroad where it matters most. The focus on the US and the UN
system is not out of the blues. The US supported the assassination of Patrice
Lumumba in 1961 because of Cold War politics. They replaced him with General
Mobutu Sese Seku for the same reason. But the egoistic and corrupt Mobutu
disappointed the Americans in an epoch when they could not risk any adventurous
replacement of this reliable stooge. Finally, in the era of fallen communism, whomever
rules in Congo Kinshasa did not really bother the Americans provided their global
interests are safeguarded, while gross human rights abuses are not the order of
the day. For such abuses often lead to immigration to the West from the Third
World. And that is how the old Kabila took power in a putsch supported by
neighbouring African countries. But both have been major disappointments to
Africa and the West. But the young Kabila has
been a major disappointment to the US, noting that a politically unstable DRC
could easily be home to terrorists. Further, doing business in the vast Congo
territory where good infrastructure remains a pipe dream is a menace to
globalisation. "Dukawala"
Belgian capital does not, however, mind a poorly developed DRC. The Belgians
are still seeking to restore King Leopold' s lost empire in a DRC they can more
easily manipulate and dominate. A weak government with less popular support is
more favourable to them, hence the Belgian support for a Fayulu-led government
in the post Kabila era. Felix has also
cultivated ambiance with the UN family of institutions. The UN has, for a long
time, been involved in Congolese affairs in peace and humanitarian affairs.
Nothing would please the UN. more than seeing a popular and democratic regime
elected by the Congolese people.  Such a government would not only rise in
its legitimacy to establish the rule of law but would also reduce the human
carnage due to conflicts over resources. These are issues Felix has
substantially canvased in his meetings abroad. But elections "are
elections" in Africa. The fact that one is popular does not mean the
voters "will be allowed" to turn up and vote on voting day. The
voters may well turn up and vote; but that does not mean that their votes will
be found in the ballot boxes, let alone counted.  Even if they are counted
and the results reveal that you win, the announcement of who has won may be
something completely different. These are the issues
Tshisekedi and his team should not leave to fate nor trust election monitors to
come to their aid. The reports of election monitoring in Africa reveal romantic
and bombastic language signifying nothing. And when they hit the point, the
venom with which the authoritarian governments "so elected" malign
the monitors is nothing but embarrassing to the people who spend so much time
and resources trying to choose their governments in elections they assume will
be free and fair. 