President Uhuru Kenyatta has the key to the 2022 election puzzle, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. Saying that though the 2022 presidential race was in the hands of God, there were some signs that the unexpected would happen. "Mambo ya 2022 ni mambo ya Mungu lakini tunaona dalili nyingine hapo wewe ndio unajua, mimi sitaki niulizwe. Muheshimiwa Ruto amesema ako hapo katikati lakini wewe unajua, wewe unajua," Orengo said repeatedly amid cheers. (2022 race is only God who knows but we have seen signs that only you (Uhuru) know. I don't want to be asked...Ruto has said now he is in between you and Raila but it is only you who knows). Orengo spoke at Mamboleo Showground where President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, and ODM leader Raila Odinga congregated to launch the pilot program for the Universal Health Coverage. While welcoming Uhuru in the region, Orengo said Uhuru's name had already been domesticated to 'Ouru', meaning that Kisumu residents resonate with his policies. He said following President Uhuru Kenyatta's handshake with Raila Odinga, Kenya has reached heights that have never been experienced before. "Kenyans have faith in what the two of you are doing. We have never been this way for a long time and the handshake will be a game-changer for years to come." Earlier, Ruto told Kisumu residents that his political rivalry with Raila is over, and that he is comfortable being between the ODM leader and Uhuru. "Tumefika hapa kwa sababu tumekubaliana kuwa siasa za ugomvi, ukabila na chuki tutaacha. Siasa ya sasa ni siasa ya kuunganisha wakenya wote," he said. (We are here having reached an agreement to end politics of fights, tribalism, and hatred. The politics at the moment is about uniting Kenyans) At the Mamboleo Showground event, the DP said: "Si mnaona tumefika hapa leo? Na mnaona vile mbele ilivyo…tutatembea pamoja. Ukiona Uhuru upande mmoja na Raila huo mwingine basi ujue ‘hustler’ ako hapo katikati". (As you see us here today and the way things are, we will walk together. When you see Uhuru on one side and Raila on the other, know that the hustler is between them). The events in Kisumu on Thursday was a contrast of the events before and after the 2017 general elections. Dozens were killed as police quelled protests which followed the disputed presidential election results. The row pitting Raila against Uhuru ended when the two reached a post-election truce on March 9, a decision that has been touted as complicating the 2022 election equation. Also read: Raila shares light moment with Ruto ahead of Uhuru's arrival in Kisumu Click here for the latest political news