DP William Ruto has urged political leaders to form national political parties that will unite all Kenyans. He noted that for the country to have a strong development foundation, peace and unity, the country's politics should be anchored on national politics and not parties formed on ethnic basis. “It's high time for Kenya to have political parties with a national outlook instead of having small political parties that have been formed on tribal grounds. This small parties will take us nowhere,” he said. Ruto said the Jubilee party set the pace for other political parties after they merged more than 10 parties into a national party that has united Kenyans. ODM, Ford Kenya, Wiper and ANC followed suit ahead of the August 8, 2017 elections after they merged into the NASA coalition. Read: 11 parties fold and merge into Jubilee Speaking in Kitale at the ASK Showground during Catholic Church Family day on Sunday, Ruto urged small political parties to follow the example. The deputy president explained that most of the local political parties in the country cling on certain tribes, something he said encourages tribalism. He said politics should be based on the agenda to solve the challenges facing all citizens. “Development politics is what we will need to archive the Big Four Agenda. Leaders should come out and say what their manifesto is for Kenyans and not creating fights with one another,” the DP said. The deputy president was accompanied by Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo, senators, MPs and other leaders. Lonyangapuo defended his action to remove roadblocks on roads saying he was defending his people. He said implementation of the Michuki rules was being misused by some police officers saying more than 25 roadblocks had been erected in the road on the fateful day. Ruto also urged Kenyans to be democratic while pursuing political interests. He urged those who fail to ascend to power to accept and wait for another election circle to try their lack. “If you fail this time wait for another election, don’t cause trouble and chaos,” he said. He noted that the any political seat can only accommodate one winner regardless of the number of those who vie at any one given time. The deputy president said that if politicians respected democracy, Kenya would realize peace, unity and development. Read also: Merge into one party if you’re to rival JP, Ruto tells opposition Click here for the latest political news