Champions Gor Mahia will be seeking to extend their SportPesa Premier League dominance over Kariobangi Sharks when the two sides renew their rivalry at Moi Stadium, Kasarani as the league stretches to final round of the year. Gor have won all the four league encounters against Sharks since the latter’s promotion to the top flight last year and will aim to avenge a 1-0 loss suffered in the hands of Sharks in the Super Cup played last month. Hassan Oktay’s charges opened the new season on the wrong footing, bowing 2-1 to Bandari, but recovered in the subsequent match to Zoo Kericho 4-1 and will be on a mission to record their second win of the season and move from their current unfamiliar 12th place on the standings. On the other hand, Sharks will be determined to replicate the resilience that saw them beat their fancied opponents in both the Shield Cup and Super Cup. They will be counting on the experience they gained in their two-legged Confederations Cup qualifying rounds, where they fell to Ghanaian side Asante Kotoko. Sharks, who are perched fifth with five points warmed for the clash with a goalless draw against Nzoia Sugar on Wednesday. In other matches lined up for the day, leaders and unbeaten Western Stima will have their resurgence put to the test when they play last season’s runners up Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium. The powermen have won all their opening three matches while the dockers are third with seven points. Returnees KCB will be scratching for their maiden win of the season when they play former champions Tusker at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. The bankers are 16th with a point while the brewers lie sixth with four. AFC Leopards will also be chasing after their first win of the season when they host Vihiga United in Machakos. Ingwe have lost once and lost twice to sit 15th with two points while their match-day opponents are seventh with four. Mathare United will put their unbeaten run in line when they play Posta Rangers at Afraha Stadium. The Slum Boys are second with seven points as Rangers come 13th with three. Chemelil Sugar and Mt Kenya United will be scrambling for their first win of the season when they play at Chemelil Sports Complex. The millers sit 17th with a point while Mt Kenya are bottom of the log without a point. Kakamega Homeboyz host Nzoia Sugar at Bukhungu Stadium while Zoo Kericho play Sony Sugar at Kericho Green Stadium.