Nairobi county is set to compensate Pangani residents whose houses will be destroyed to make way for a major urban renewal housing project. Lands executive Charles Kerich last week told The Star in an interview that the tenants will be compensated for two years, the estimated time of new construction. Then they can move back. Kerich said offer letters have already been prepared and the developers, Pangani Estate Limited, are ready to start giving tenants compensation money once the letters are signed. LUMP SUM “We have prepared the offer letters and the developers are ready and have the money. Each tenant will be given Sh25,000 per month for two years, the expected construction period, but if it takes longer, they will also be sorted,” Kerich said. The county has been negotiating with tenants of the 48 houses. The county says most are ready to move and have already selected their new houses in the project. Kerich said the tenants will receive a lump sum amount instead of monthly compensation, after which the county will set a groundbreaking day. The executive this week said those tenants who would have signed and been given their money will be expected to start moving out, while those who are still hesitant will be given 30 days. The county has been forced to reduce the height of buildings from 30 storeys to 14 storeys because Pangani Estate is under the paths of Moi Airbase. The Sh300 billion Phase One, the pilot project, will have at least 1,148 units costing Sh3 million each. The developers will have a 70:30 share in the project. “Seventy per cent of the project must be low-cost housing and the developers are under instructions to build structures whose value ranges between Sh1 million and Sh3 million. Then the 30 per cent would be slightly higher to give the investors a chance to sell at market rate,” Kerich said. SPOILERS The county had hoped to break ground this year but the launch had to be postponed due to logistics. “We hoped to do the groundbreaking this year. But we have tried to be very gentle with the tenants as we want it to be a very successful and not a controversial project. As you know, there are people in Nairobi who will not hesitate to turn very noble project into a scandal that does not exist,” Kerich said. Nairobi was selected as the first county to have low-cost housingas part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, which includes affordable housing.