Coast leaders are angry over remarks by Shipping PS Nancy Karigithu asking the region’s youth to learn proper English. Karigithu said the inability of some youths to express themselves in English had cost them shipping jobs in recent interviews. “We are utterly disgusted by her level of contempt towards the coastal youth, especially given the fact that she schooled in Matuga and earned her entire livelihood from the Coast,” Coast Professionals Forum organising secretary Jeremiah Kiwoi said. Karigithu on Friday said “WhatsApp language” is proving detrimental to young people’s ability to express themselves in proper, fluent spoken and written English. The problem was manifested during interviews for cruise ship jobs conducted by Mediterranean Shipping Company on November 10, she said. Maendeleo ya Wanawake Kilifi county patron Naomi Cidi said this is a ploy to deny coastal people jobs. “English is just a language. It is not a measure of competence. It depends on where you work and the skills sets you have,” she said on the phone. The coastal leaders said “WhatsApp English” cuts across the country. “It is not only the Coast youth who use WhatsApp,” Kiwi said. International Transport Federation inspection officer Betty Makena said it was embarrassing to watch and listen to youth from the Coast struggle to express themselves in English. She said people should not run away from some truths. “In as much as not all Coast youth have a problem speaking in fluent proper English, there is this problem,” she told the Star on the phone yesterday. Makena said 10 out of 15 youths who passed the cruise ship interviews and were recently given a sendoff by President Uhuru Kenyatta were from the Coast. “There would have been more Coast youth taken had it not been for the difficulty in expression. We had to groom them before the interviews for them to be taken,” she said. But the leaders said the fact that some maritime engineers could not open their emails is a reflection of Kenya’s education system. Makena said the youths should prepare themselves in advance for jobs in future.