The looming teachers’ strike could once again throw education into disarray as public schools are scheduled to open this Thursday. The stand-off between Knut and the teachers’ employer, the Teachers Service Commission, has intensified and so far no one has given ground. “We shall not resume duties until all issues are resolved to the full satisfaction of teachers. We call on all teachers to fully participate in this historic strike to claim our justified rights,” Knut secretary general Wilson sossion said. Knut cites a raft of issues, including demands that mass transfers be halted, or teachers will refuse to teach. Appraisals and promotions are also stumbling blocks. Other issues likely to shape teaching and learning as schools reopen — whenever they do — include implementation of the new curriculum, and the promise of 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools. According to a report signed by Basic Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang, the education sector is short of Sh113 billion required to ensure a smoothly implementation of five key projects. Efforts by the government through the Ministry of Labour to avert the strike seem to have hit a brick wall after talks with Knut broke down on Saturday. The union issued preconditions for any dialogue. The conciliation team is to meet the TSC this morning. Read: Teachers to go on strike when schools open on January 3 - Sossion In the afternoon, the team is expected to hold a joint meeting with aggrieved parties to deliberate on teachers’ promotion, transfers,and their appraisals. Sossion yesterday said the talks had failed due to lack of good will by the TSC. He said that as long as the TSC stuck to its plan of not promoting teachers and continues with transfers, there will be no conciliation. A U-turn by the Education ministry directing the roll-out of the new curriculum in Classes 1, 2,and 3 has raised concerns among stakeholders over lack of adequate resources, preparedness and teacher training. The new competency-based curriculum will replace the 8.4.4 system in place since 1985. The reforms introduce a new education system with four tiers (early years,middle school, senior school and tertiary and university). Sossion said most teachers lack the capacity to implement the new curriculum. He said private schools are privileged, with most schools exhibiting better outcomes in the piloting phase while public primary schools struggle. Knut has rejected implementation of the new curriculum, terming the process hurried and poorly planned. “There are many challenges relating to the curriculum. The ministry must address them and ensure proper communication,”Sossion said. Click here for the latest political news