A majority of Kenyans think the national examinations this year were conducted professionally, a new poll released yesterday indicates. The opinion poll by Tifa Research Kenya shows that 91 per cent of those polled were either “very satisfied or satisfied with the management of the exams.” Respondents were asked “How satisfied were you with the management of 2018 KCPE and KCSE exams?” The resounding public approval can be seen as an endorsement of a raft of measures put in place by the Ministry of Education and the Kenya National Examinations Council to curb leakage of exam papers. The management of the exams led to an unprecedented deployment of top government officials including CSs, PSs, CASs and heads of different government institutions to monitor the process. The senior officials opened examination containers and made impromptu visits to designated schools during the exam period. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto also participated in invigilating the tests. They made appearances in various schools, especially in Nairobi. The KCSE monitoring was allocated Sh4.2 billion, a huge chunk which went to pay personnel. The radical approach in managing this year’s tests appeared to have borne fruits, with only a few cases of cheating reported. Those cases that were detected were handled quickly. Read: Kenyans rate 2018 as a bad year, decry high cost of living, unemployment - TIFA poll During the release of the KCSE on December 21, Knec boss George Magoha said the exam management in the last three years has been ‘steady’ and cases of irregularities have reduced and overall performances improved. “The talk of exam leakage is now a thing of the past,” Magoha said. He said a small percentage of teachers remained a serious challenge and urged Education CS Amina Mohamed not to sympathise with those caught in wrong when handling the tests. “We must protect the integrity of the examinations in this country with our all,” Magoha said. Teachers Service Commission’s chief executive Nancy Macharia announced the interdiction of five teachers for breaching rules of the examinations. She also announced that 57 cases were under investigation. Regarding KCPE, only four candidates had their results cancelled due to irregularities. Click here for the latest political news