Is President Uhuru Kenyatta planning to reshuffle his cabinet? Word has it that the head of state is planning to send home at least seven CS home before the end of the year as he seeks to re-energise his cabinet. It is understood that some of those targeted have been linked to corruption and others have failed to deliver on their mandate. How does a Cabinet Secretary known for his careless public spats manage his affairs? The man who is not only a laughing stock in the public but also an embarrassment to fellow cabinet colleagues does not have a diary or order of events. When in office the man spends the whole day entertaining his village-mates who patronize the office, feasting on snacks and tea that is now becoming a fast-moving commodity. When brought documents to peruse the man signs or agrees with them even without reading. “I am a special one here and a blue-eyed boy of one of the Jubilee bigwigs those who complain are jealous,” he was overheard telling detractors. Now the staff of the ministry in question are praying that President Uhuru Kenyatta will relieve them the burden and embarrassment by sacking the said CS whom they claim the duty he has taken seriously since taking office is attending funerals in his village. A massive graft campaign is set to hit a bank chief executive officer. Sources whispered to Corridors that some anti-graft crusaders have landed on the CEO's bank statement and the campaign involving street demos is set to begin. This involves the approval of some huge loans which some believed was not procedural. Its alleged that after approving the loan, part of it was wired back to the top executive's accounts. Reason? To appease his team and show them it was not all in vain. The Crusaders hope to use the statements as part of what they term irrefutable evidence. Is chief executive of the state agency which is facing merging abusing powers of his office? If he is not globe-trotting to earn per diem the man is in office to make sure that tender committees award contracts to only to those who serve his interest. The man known for issuing show course letters to staffs who want to remain above board has also embarked on recruiting staff only from his backyard despite government freeze on employment. Recently the man was dressed down before his line minister by some of the stakeholders for unprofessional conduct. Click here for the latest political news