Nyanza is set to reap big from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s two-day tour of the region. For years, the region has been perceived to be anti-government. The President, who visited the political turf of ODM leader Raila Odinga – Kisumu and Siaya counties – hosted Luo elected leaders at the Kisumu State Lodge on Thursday evening. Raila attended the meeting. Some leaders said Uhuru’s tour will benefit the region. The leaders discussed implementation of the budgeted projects, new projects and revival of those that have stalled. Other key issues the head of state stressed on included uniting the country. Some projects the leaders wanted given priority included the revival of Kisumu Cotton Mills, the sugar and fishing industry, and maritime transport. Uriri MP Mark Nyamita and his Awendo counterpart Walter Owino said the meeting gave them a platform to dialogue with Uhuru on development projects. “We thank the President for his tour and for launch projects in the region. These projects will go a long way in improving the lives of our people,” Owino said. The leaders also asked Uhuru to tour Migori and Homa Bay counties to launch projects such as roads. Read: Uhuru, Raila conferred honorary degrees over handshake Nyamita said Uhuru urged leaders and Kenyans to shun divisive, bloodshed and tribal politics, which hurt development. “The president urged us to continue spreading the spirit of handshake to unite Kenyans,” he said. Nyamita said the President pledged to look into the sugar sector to make it more productive. Nyanza region hosts Sony, Miwani, Chemelil and Muhoroni sugar factories. They are state-owned companies. These millers are facing numerous problems, including financial woes and obsolete machines. On reviving the ailing sugar companies, the President said he is waiting for the sugar task force report to guide on best course of action. On construction of Muhoroni-Mamboleo C674 road, formerly the C34, which is a key road to Kisumu, Nandi and neighbouring counties, Uhuru said the tender had been awarded. “We have the outcry of the people using the road. It is going to be constructed with the tender already given out,” the President said. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo praised Uhuru on his efforts to build the road and plans to revive collapsed sugar industries. Also Read:  [PHOTOS] Raila hosts Uhuru at Bondo home as Ruto attends Kisii University graduation Click here for the latest political news