Over 150 participants are expected for attend a three-day annual Athletics Kenya (AK) Conference at the Safari Park Hotel, starting Thursday. The event will feature both top and upcoming athletes from all the AK affiliates in the country. The conference’s organising committee chairman, David Miano, said the event is mandatory for all the invited athletes. “Even though the calendar has already started, the conference is meant to usher in the season and it’s very important for all the runners who have plans in 2019,” he added. He said this time round, AK will not have the usual end of the year awards. “We have opted to have the this conference instead of the awards, considering all has not been well in athletics circles this year. We have had to deal with too many negative cases and it’s important to have our athletes back in class in a bid to light their way,” he added. He said the conference will feature key topics and it is important that all those invited attend so that they can plan their season properly. Among the elite runners expected to attend the three-day conference include world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge, four-time New York marathon champion Mary Keitany, two-time Olympic 800m champion David Rudisha, three-time world half marathon champion Geoffrey Kamworor, London marathon champion Vivian Cheruiyot and World and Commonwealth Games 1,500m champion Elijah Manang’oi. Also expected are world 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri, world 1,500m silver medallist Timothy Cheruiyot, former world javelin champion, Julius Yego, world and Olympic 3,000m champion Conseslus Kipruto and Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Chepngetich among others. Key topics to be discussed will include anti doping with presentations by the Athletic Integrity Unit (AIU) in light of the recent doping menace that has blighted the country’s athletic performance in the recent past. Other topics to be discussed include career development, sports and education, taxation, investment, travel and visa, retirement, legal and contractual agreements and self-branding. Among the key speakers will be Former Olympic 3000 meters steeplechase silver medallist, Patrick Sang, who now coaches Kipchoge and Kamworor among others, Prof. Mike Boit, who is a former Olympic 800m bronze medallist, Elias Makori from the media fraternity and representatives from the Kenya Doctors Network, and Athletics and Anti Doping Agency of Kenya (ADAK) among others. Athletics Kenya (AK) President Lt Gen (Rtd) Jack Tuwei said the conference was key in addressing some of the weighty issues including doping and the future of our runners in as far as investments and their retirement is concerned. He said there is more to a life of an athlete than just running.