In the Biblical account of Joseph’s life in prison, the day
came when he encountered two of Pharaoh’s servants — the baker and the butler. Like him, both had been thrown to jail but for different reasons.
The two servants then had a dream. The baker dream was that he had three white
baskets on his head each with pastries of every kind that he had made
for Pharaoh. Then the birds of the air began to eat his pastries. Joseph's
interpretation of the dream to the Pharaoh was that the three baskets stood for three days and that on the
third day, Pharaoh would have the baker hanged and the birds of the air would eat his
flesh. And so on the third day it happened exactly as Joseph had said.  HANGING THE BAKER Undoubtedly, the Uhuru-Raila handshake has borne
huge political dividends for opposition leader Raila Odinga, and now he is enjoying massive
goodwill ahead of his future political ambitions. Receiving the President in
Kisumu and hosting him in his backyard went along way to pave the way for great
things for him. Whether that goodwill will result in him clinching the
presidency, is the big question now. It is not clear whether he still wants to be President or
just Prime Minister if the Constitution is changed. But as usual, there are
pitfalls that Raila is blind to, and which, as history has proved,
tend to return to haunt him – again and again. When he had the best chance to split the Executive during
the constitutional talks that brought about the current Constitution, the
massive goodwill he had at that time blinded him to the subtle but profound pitfalls
on the road. It was like the fog had cleared and with a clear view of the
presidency, he pressed full steam ahead knowing well, as did Captain John
Edward Smith (of the Titanic), that his ship was ‘unsinkable’. Raila supported a powerful Executive but he never got to the
seat. He baked the pastries and still lost his head anyway. The big question is
what will Raila do today to deliver a good Constitution to Kenyans and also
ensure that he is in power with it in 2022. In short, can he bake the pastries and
still keep his head? As things are, the road will not be so easy and it will take
more than the handshake to get him into office in 2022. There are certain
things that he must carefully watch out for.  CUTTING THE BRANCH Just like in 2010, the danger of making constitutional
changes with certain political ambitions in mind, or having the process being
led by people with political ambitions, is comparable to the man who sat on the
branch he was busy cutting. Eventually, the branch will come down with him
as happened to Raila in 2013 and 2017. Unfortunately, the former Prime Minister
is approaching the intended constitutional changes with the same mindset he had
in 2010 — while eyeing a political position. That time, he was the undisputed
front-runner and he took the same position in Kisumu last weekend. In fact, in Kisumu, DP William Ruto basically stepped
backward, like the long distance athlete, to allow the trailing opponent to
surge ahead, then use him as a pacemaker. He declared that as Uhuru stood on
one side and Raila on the other, he stood in the middle and he is good. It is
this ‘middle’ space that he is now claiming, but strategically. It is equivalent to stepping back and getting his bitter rival to move ahead, then take
advantage of his sapped energy in the final lap. Most winners of long distance
races tend to win on the final lap, just a few metres to the finish line. Raila
today is not alive to this reality — or for that matter possibility.  THE RUTO SITUATION When Ruto spoke in Kisumu stating his support for the
handshake, there was something about his choice of words that betrayed his
utter disdain for the direction the same had taken. The handshake has basically
served to diminish his political fortunes. Deep inside Raila’s heart, he has no
time for Ruto. He is even punishing some of his MPs who are siding with the DP, showing
that working with Uhuru, was always meant to diminish Ruto. And this has worked
to some extent particularly with regard to the intended referendum. By reading
from the national mood, Ruto did the about-turn to support the constitutional
changes but with a caveat – that it should not be about creating positions for ‘individuals’.
Well, it might just be that the proposed constitutional changes are about
creating positions for ‘individuals’. Some people in certain quarters were
heard offering Uhuru the position of Prime Minister in exchange for Raila becoming
President in 2022. So it is about positions.  IEBC IN A SHAMBLES A potential pitfall for Raila right now is the state of the
IEBC. Recent reports have unearthed explosive scandals and most
Kenyans believe the institution is irredeemably besmirched by corruption and
nothing short of a radical surgery will cure it. Billions were lost in faulty
tendering, and vested interests saw taxpayers lose billions. All of these
contributed, in one way or another, to defeating the will of the people of
Kenya. As it is, the institution is not able to deliver a credible election, let
alone a referendum, and Raila might just find himself the victim of its perennial
decrepitude. But what is really worrying is the level of vested interests that
hang above the IEBC like an evil cloud. Even if people are changed, their
natures are not changed. They can still sway the ball towards the side of the
goal they are routing for - with disastrous results.  FINANCES
Between Raila and his rival Ruto, it is Ruto who has deep pockets. How he gets
the money is the subject for another day, but it goes beyond there. The two have a vastly different attitude towards money. Ruto splashes “his”
money with the liberality of a chicken farmer feeding his chickens with seed
(he has been a chicken farmer anyway). Raila on the other hand is more cautious
with his money, perhaps too cautious for that matter. He personally does not believe that money has a place in
politics. Many a time the money was not his anyway, having been presented to
him by diehard supporters, but still, the money gets bottlenecked somehow. In
Raila’s last two elections, his behaviour around money was identified as one of
the reasons for his poor performance. The motility of money is very important in an electoral
campaign. Even though many of his supporters volunteered their services out of
their devotion to him, there was only so much they could do or so far they
could go. Without a funding machine that gets things done in an orderly manner
Raila does not have much of a chance against Ruto. The DP on the other hand has
a funding machine that is  well organised. Using the Jubilee secretariat
and its massive reach he can virtually mobilise anywhere in the country (even
in Raila’s strongholds). Besides, Ruto has a bunch of quiet operatives in his
office and ‘fixers’ or even ‘enforcers’ strategically placed in various places
awaiting his signal. At the end of the day, there will emerge ‘victims’ of his covert
scheming like former Kiambu governor William Kabogo came to believe happened to
him. This situation has the possibility of tipping the balances against Raila.  SPLITTING THE CENTRAL KENYA VOTE In the last few days, there are certain leaders from Central
Kenya who have begun making overtures to Musalia Mudavadi. They have openly
courted his favour and made delegations to him pledging their support. This is not
something new in Kenyan politics and in fact, Raila himself has received such
delegations. But Central Kenya, which is the king-making region, has many
suitors. Right now, there are up to four camps in Central Kenya – Ruto’s
people, Raila’s people, Musalia’s people and the Undecided. If he is not very
careful, his anticipated support from Central Kenya may just dissipate into
thin air despite the handshake. There is also that core that will still not
support him not matter what. Dividing the Kikuyu vote will not be good for
Raila and this could serve to water down the anticipated benefits from the handshake. 