Health CS Sicily Kariuki has urged residents of the four UHC pilot counties to be vigilant and avoid buying medicines not meant for sale. The Sh3.1 billion universal healthcare coverage programme was launched on December 13 in Kisumu, Machakos, Isiolo and Nyeri. Kariuki said on Friday that UHC medications are labelled ‘not for sale’ — a standard mark by the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa). “Should you find any of these medication with a stamp of Kemsa [being sold], report it to the chief so the law can take its course,” she said. Kemsa delivered drugs to all facilities based on the projections made by the counties, she said. Kariuki expressed concern over inadequate storage space in some facilities. “We’ve discussed with the county governments and I’ve instructed them to increase storage space. The number of patients and the demand for medication are likely to increase,” the Cabinet secretary said. Kariuki said the programme is on course and supplies for the next three months are available. Patients with UHC cards are already getting free treatment. “I can confirm that all the plans put in place at the beginning are ongoing. The staff have been trained and the citizens are aware of the programme,” Kariuki said. Although registration for the UHC cards started way before the programme was launched, some residents missed out. The ministry has set up registration tables at the facilities for those who were left out. “Community health volunteers have been trained and are engaged in the programme. The Sh2,000 they receive from the government is only a stipend for the two hours they volunteer daily,” Kariuki said. Kisumu was chosen because of many cases of communicable diseases and Nyeri for its high noncommunicable disease burden. Isiolo was selected based on its sparse population and high maternal deaths. Machakos has a high rate of road crashes. Read: What services to expect as Uhuru launches Universal Health Coverage pilot Click here for the latest political news