Gor Mahia jetted out yesterday for their Caf Champions return match against Lobi Stars of Nigeria without inspirational midfielder Ernest Wendo who will miss the match following his suspension. Wendo was cautioned against Nyasa Bullets and Lobi Stars making him ineligible to face the former this Sunday when Gor seeks to sail to the group stages of the tournament. In his absence, head coach Hassan Oktay will rely on the experienced Humphrey Mieno to shield the defence from leaking two goals—a result which will see them make it to the group stages and pocket Sh56million. In April, Gor had to do without the services of Wendo in their return match to SuperSport of South Africa after missing the match courtesy of his high affinity of collecting yellow cards. Oktay is likely to stick with his first choice goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch with Philemon Otieno, Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango and Shafik Batambuze being deployed in the defence. Mieno is set to anchor the midfield alongside Francis Kahata, Kenneth Muguna, Francis Mustafa and Sammy Onyango. Jacques Tuyisenge is set to maintain his striking roles.] Gor reaped a 3-1 home win over the weekend and will be eying a draw or a win in the reverse fixture. The match will also see assistant coach Zedekiah Otieno return to the dugout after missing the first leg, thanks to the marching orders received away in Malawi. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks coach William Muluya expressed optimism in having his striker Sydney Simale ready for the return leg against Asante Kotoko of Ghana. Simale has been out nursing a knee injury but Muluya hinted of having the national U-23 striker fully fit for the match to beef his injury-hit striking front. “I think Simale will be ready for the match. He resumed training and I hope he will be fully fit to play in the return match. Kapaito might not be available although he has resumed light training.” Gor squad—Boniface Oluoch and Fredrick Odhiambo; Defenders : Harun Shakava, Philemon Otieno, Joash Onyango, Wellington Ochieng, Shafik Batambuze, Pascal Ogweno; Midfielders: Humphrey Mieno, Kenneth Muguna, Samuel Onyango, Boniface Omondi, Francis Kahata, George Odhiambo, Cercidy Okeyo; Strikers: Erisa Ssekisambu, Jacques Tuyisenge and Francis Mustafa.