The government has bought a Sh150 million CT that will be installed at Bungoma County Referral Hospital, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto said this will ease congestion at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. He spoke at Kimilili Boys High School on Friday. As the DP visited Bungoma, his political nemesis Baringo senator Gideon Moi headed to Kakamega on Saturday for a fund drive. Both leaders are looking to succeed President Uhuru when his term comes to an end in 2022. The DP who attended the homecoming party of Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa went loaded with a bag of goodies for the people of Bungoma. "We will construct 5,000 houses affordable houses and create jobs for 25,000 youths in Bungoma to reduce unemployment," he said The DP said the Jubilee government will ensure that more households in Bungoma are connected to electricity by mid next year. Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka told Luhyas to rally behind Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid since he has shown good leadership qualities. "Support a leader who has shown vision instead of wasting your votes elsewhere. Our neighbour, the DP, has shown interest in the top seat, let’s support him," Lusaka said. "I have often told you that a good and reasonable fly dies in the milk or soup, not in the toilet. I may be short, but I have the power to see very far. So heed my advice and let's walk with Ruto," he said National Assembly Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali asked Western leaders to support Ruto. "Let’s unite and form the 2022 government together, Ruto is the only surest way to State House," the Mumias East MP said. Host MP Barasa said he will use all means at his disposal to mobilise the electorate to vote for the DP as the next President of Kenya. "I won't accept the Constitution to be changed to benefit a few people. We can’t allow some people to ascend to power through the back door," he said. Barasa asked the DP to push for the tarmacking of the Kamasielo-Kapsokwony road which is in a sorry state. Sirisia MP John Waluke said Western region will support Ruto’s presidential bid. "Ruto is the only sure bet for the 2022 presidency, we will not compromise. Let Gideon Moi and Raila Odinga stop mocking and insulting Ruto. We will ensure that the DP ascends to power," he said. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale asked Western Kenya residents to unite and back Ruto. "I'm not going against my party leader. I am only following the wind of change that has hit this country. We will only succeed as Luhyas if we support William Ruto’s presidential bid, the rest is noise," the Ford Kenya deputy chairman said. Bungoma deputy governor Charles Ngome asked County Commissioner James Kianda to allow boda bodas to operate freely until April next year. He said the present rules are punitive and will hurt their businesses. MPs Caleb Kositany, Oscar Sudi, Justus Murunga, Malulu Injendi, Emmanuel Wangwe, Benard Shinali, Wafula Wamunyinyi, Titus and Mwambu Mabonga attended the event. Click here for the latest political news  