ODM leader Raila Odinga has bashed politicians already campaigning for the 2022 race at the expense of development. Telling them off Raila on Monday said it is a high time for the legislators to give Kenyans a break. He reiterated that the famous handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta early in the year is meant to have a government that accommodates all regardless of political and tribal affiliations. The former Premier termed the current political temperatures as rubbish insisting it will not take Kenya anywhere. "You cannot keep the country on a campaign mood for five years, please give Kenyans a break and let us forge ahead," he said. Raila was speaking in Budalangi during the Bunyala sport cultural festival. In attendance were Devolution CS  Eugene Wamalwa, Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma and Funyula MP Oundo Mudenyo. Raila assured he residents that during his tenure as AU special envoy he will initiate Lake Victoria Ring Road and find a lasting solution to the wars between Ugandan and Kenyan fishermen on the lake. "It is import to respect the East African Member protocol of the three States. Uganda is a member and should live up to the protocol," Raila said. He regretted that the neighbouring Uganda has worsened the relationship between the two East African Countries by harassing Kenyan fishermen by forcing them to eat raw fish. Read: Referendum unstoppable, tied to handshake - Raila Terming the acts as inhuman Raila said, "I will advise President Uhuru to meet Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and find a lasting solution among them having our own marine army". Raila also maintained that being in AU will not bar him from doing his work. "I am very much available and will continue to push for electoral reforms in the country," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala who said  Raila is not going to retire from politics soon. "Our people are suffering, there is a lot to be corrected in the current constitution," Wanjala said. He further said that he supports Uhuru in the war against corruption adding that his office has conducted a social audit and Sh560 million cannot be accounted for from the former MPs projects in the entire constituency. Wanjala further condemned leaders for ethnicising graft war insisting that they should carry their own cross. Former MP and newly appointed Chairman Privatisation Commission  Paul Otuoma said that the famous March handshake has bore fruit earning him a job in government. "The biggest challenge is now corruption, I want to assure my president that I will not let you down," he said adding, "There is no better legacy Uhuru can leave other than fighting corruption". Also Read: Uhuru tells off handshake critics, says will continue working with Raila Click here for the latest political news