Hosts Kenya qualified for the Under 16 Copa Coca Cola Africa semi-finals with a slim 1-0 win over rivals Uganda in the quarter-finals at Nakuru High School. Kenya's St Anthony Kitale will now play Zambia in the last four tomorrow after the Southern Africans beat Tanzania 1-0 in another last 8 clash courtesy of Lickson Ngambi’s 31st minute lone goal. Kenya’s all-important goal was scored by Jacob Onyango in the 49th minute after he unlocked the tight Ugandan defence to shoot past Oluka George. The game was well balanced with both sides threatening until Onyango’s brilliant moment, in the second half. The first 35 min had little to write home with both sides cautiously defending, to avoid conceding early. While Kenya tried launching attacks from the wings Uganda who deployed a five-man defence were contented with sitting back and building from behind. Uganda’s Kanyondo Francis threatened with a well taken free kick in the 21st minute that was parried away by custodian Issa Umeria. Kenya increased the tempo of the game, with Jack Kibiwot’s through pass finding Onyango whose 20th-minute first time shot veered off the crossbar. The cagey affair intensified with Kenya knocking on the Ugandan door as the clock ticked. Wisdom Naya weaved through the Ugandan backline, but his goal-bound shot was cleared off the line with the keeper well beaten. The much-needed water break came in handy with both sets of players looking exhausted from the scorching sun. Second half substitute Jackson Abwal who came in for Answar Shamuni had an immediate impact as he came close with a shot outside the box, that was collected by the Uganda custodian. Read: Kenya hit Botswana to reach Copa U-16 last eight in Nakuru The determined Ugandans pushed ahead for the opener with captain Thomas Kokane’s 45th-minute header tipped over by Emuria. Kenya’s marauding runs finally bore fruit four minutes later after Abwal’s pass found Onyango, who beat two opponents to hit the back of the net for the winner. Onyango who scored four in the opener against Ethiopia in the first match is now the tournament top scorer with five goals. Kenya coach Dan Oronje says they were happy with the result with Uganda and a worthy opponent. “The win gives us confidence going forward and we have to be more clinical against the Zambians to avoid a disappointment in the last four, as we have only 70 minutes to finish the job,” Oronje said. His Ugandan counterpart Simoni Peter said they played well but lack was not on their side. “Our game plan worked well but the Kenyan side was better than us at the end of the day the single goal broke our hearts, but we’ll come back stronger next year” South Africa are currently held 1-1 by Nigeria, while Mozambique is leading Botswana 1-0 in the other last eight clashes at the same venue. The winners will square in the other semi-final tomorrow. Also read: Easy win for Kenya as Copa Cola show gets underway Click here for the latest political news