Telkom’s Lucy Lichuma and Sanny Kotia will make their debut in this weekend’s Hockey Africa Cup of Club Championship in Abuja, Nigeria. The two are part of the 18-member squad unveiled yesterday and departs tomorrow morning for the event set to start this Saturday and end on December 22. Forward Anne Juma makes a comeback to the squad having last featured for the local champions during the 2015 event in Zimbabwe. The former champions have, however, only named one goalkeeper Cynthia Onyango with second choice Alice Wanjiru having opted out due to school commitment Team’s coach Jos Openda said the Lichuma and Kotia have been impressive in the just ended Kenya Hockey Union women’s Premier League and he saw it fit to include them in the squad. “All other players have been there and seen it all save for defender Lichuma and midfielder Kotia who will be gracing the event for the first time. It’s always good to give a chance to upcoming players to have a feel of such an event. We have tightened our loose ends and the players are raring to go,” noted Openda. He added: “Last year, we surrendered the title to the host Ghana Revenue Authority and we are keen to reclaim it. We have had a successful league where we defended our title a record 21 times and we will be buoyed by the impressive show as we head to the national championships.” The former Soya Coach of the Year, however, revealed that this will be his last assignment with the team and recapturing the title will be befitting Christmas present for him as he makes way for other coaches to excel. “I want to leave the coaching position with my head held high and my prayer is that we will reclaim the trophy. I will no-longer be on touch line from next season because I want to give chance to other coaches in the team,” he noted. Squad: Defenders: Terry Anne Juma, Flavia Mutiva, Lucy Lichuma, Lucy Wangeci, Rachael Ousa; Mid fielders: Barbara Simiyu, Lilian Aura, Tracy Karanja (captain), Georgina Lumumba, Sanny Kotia, Glen Namasake, Carolyne Guchu; Forwards: Anne Juma, Audrey Omaido, Maurine Okumu, Jane Ofula and Jacqueline Mwangi.