The Bill of Rights in the Constitution of Kenya provides in Article 29 (c) that “Every person has the right to freedom and security of the person, which includes the right not to be subjected to any form of violence from either public or private sources.” This Article guarantees all Kenyans not only their security but it makes security a human right that every person must have. A right is an entitlement that is granted on a person by their virtue of being human. Besides existence, one needs not do anything extra for them to get their rights. The state does not give rights. Rights are automatic. What the state does is to ensure a conducive environment for every person to enjoy their rights. In accordance with Article 29 therefore, one of those rights that each person is entitled to is the right to security. To ensure the right to security is guaranteed, all states around the world have the police as the main organ mandated to promote and protect the right to security. Haki Africa does not dispute the need for enhanced security in Kenya. It is a fact that the country requires to put in place strategies to boost public safety and security. However, this must be done in a holistic manner and within a human rights framework that respects democratic principles and rule of law. The government must address the systemic defaults within the security apparatus, such as endemic corruption and poor police welfare, including remuneration and housing. Security efforts should be measured, monitored and targetted towards providing long-term stability rather than reactive short-term approaches that lead to more violations and radicalisation. In dealing with insecurity, Haki Africa believes that there is an urgent need for the government to change tack and embrace a more human rights approach to security. The days when governments would use brute force to silence dissent or critics are long gone. At the global stage, a government’s legitimacy rests with its adherence not only to its own constitution and laws, but to its international obligations as well. The police must work with local political, religious and civil society leaders in addressing insecurity. Labelling legitimate criticism as “sympathising with criminals or terrorists” violates not only freedom of speech and expression but also closes other spaces for democratic expression. The security agencies should understand that they need to work with communities and civil society in promoting and protecting human rights. Demonisation of human rights organisations is in itself a threat to sustainable democratic security. Kenya’s international partners and governments supporting security reforms in the country must demand accountability and adherence to human rights principles. The leverage that this will provide in ensuring that the democratic gains of the last decade are not eroded cannot be overemphasised. The international community must further understand that assistance should not be limited to providing arms, intelligence and police training. Social and economic programmes aimed at assisting communities out of a perception of hopelessness can mitigate the drivers of insecurity and radicalisation. Investment in education, infrastructure and employment opportunities to improve the lives and living standards of affected communities ought to go hand in hand with security efforts. The Bill of Rights in the Constitution of Kenya provides in Article 21 that “It is a fundamental duty of the State and every State organ to observe, respect, protect, promote and fulfill the rights and fundamental freedoms in the Bill of Rights”. So even before human rights groups such as Haki Africa shout about rights and freedoms, the Constitution has made it a fundamental duty of the State and every State organ to guarantee those rights, including the right to security. In their operations, all government agencies and departments, at both national and county levels, must be guided by the Bill of Rights. When it comes to policing, the right to security should be the guiding principle of all police units and officers. Even before Haki Africa speaks of a violation of rights, the police should be the first ones to do so. It is only by adopting a human rights-based approach to policing will Kenya be able to successfully tackle insecurity.