 In the course of this week, Haki Africa
handled six cases involving women and land. In one of the cases, a woman was
killed by her children so that they can inherit her land. In another case, a
woman was linked to the murder of her husband in a plot to acquire land owned
by the husband. As days go by, women find themselves more and more involved in
land matters. In Africa and Kenya in particular, land is a major source of
economic empowerment but also conflicts. Agriculture, which is pegged on land,
is Kenya’s main economic activity. According to the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, agriculture contributes to 27 per cent of the
Kenya’s GDP. Land is the single most important asset a
nation or person can own. It is on land that boundaries are defined and all
activities, be they political, social or economic, are undertaken. At the same
time, land has been the highest course of conflicts, especially at the Coast of
Kenya. Communities in this region have in the recent past taken up arms against
each other on land issues, resulting in deaths of hundreds and
destruction of property worth millions. According to Haki Africa’s human rights
statistics, this year alone at the Coast, it is reported that there were at
least 35 killings related to land matters. Access to and ownership of land by
communities has been marred by legal constraints, intertwined with corruption
and maladministration where the rich and political elite benefit at the expense
of the common citizen. Traditional practices in many communities have also
denied certain sections of the population, including women and youth, from
benefitting from land and land resources. Women
empowerment has been on the agenda of many countries since the mid 1990s. Efforts
have been made to give women a voice and ensure their equal participation with
men in development processes. While strides have been made to secure women’s
involvement at the international and national levels, a lot more still needs to
be done to secure women’s rights at the grassroots level. The growing gender
inequities, increased violence against women and poor ascent of women to
leadership positions, is a testimony that women are still being discriminated
and marginalised and there is urgent need to ensure their meaningful
participation in development agendas. Besides being obvious victims of land and
land-based conflicts, women have also continued to be denied access and
ownership of land. Although in most rural communities in Kenya women largely
are responsible for food and family needs, they have not been able to access
and own land in the same manner as men. Leaving them and their families
vulnerable to poverty and other social hardships. Land, environment and natural
resources are key to the survival of many communities in Kenya. With over 70 per cent of the country’s population being rural-based and engaged in agricultural
activities, there is need to prioritise access to and ownership of land by
women. While there is a fairly strong legal
framework already in place that supports women’s property rights, there is need
to empower them to take advantage of this legal framework. Besides the legal
framework, there is also need to address other societal issues that contribute
to women’s disenfranchisement around land matters. Discrimination and
marginalisation of women from communities particularly from the Coast, Northeastern, Nyanza and other parts of the country, need to be looked at with a
view to ensuring women are guaranteed their land rights and allowed to benefit
from proceeds of land. Cultural and traditional myths that have disinherited
women off their land and taken away their property rights should also be
challenged. Empowerment of
women specifically and society as a whole on women’s rights becomes
paramount in order to guarantee a balanced society. However, this ought to be
done in a structural manner that will ensure society accepts the changes and
embraces women whole heartedly. It must not be seen as a foreign agenda imposed
on the communities. The national and county governments, as well as civil
society and religious leaders must collectively work together to support
women’s right to access and own land. Women of Kenya deserve to better benefit
from land. 