Nyeri Catholic archbishop Antony Muheria yesterday warned against pro-abortion campaigns, saying it is not the solution to teen pregnancies. He said abortion allows girls to turn into sluts through reckless sexand amounts to permitting the devil to take charge of families. “Don’t let Satan take over the shelter of life. Don’t let Satan control the source of life, our dear women. When Satan takes control, we are all lost,” Muheria said during mass at Our Lady of Africa Cathedral Church in Kitui town. “Mothers should talk to their children and fathers must be on the lookout to establish what their children are up to.” Abortion is illegal in Kenya. The Constitution says that it can only be performed on mothers endangered by a pregnancy. Muheria said it is better to pray for a pregnant teenager than allow her to kill her unborn baby. He appealed to parents and guardians to uphold moral standards and impart good values to children so Kenya can be a virtuous society. “We must help them by being close and friendly. We must be wary as we pray for them,” he said. The cleric cautioned parents against abdicating their role. Some 113 Kitui girls who sat KCSE exam were either pregnant or had children. The District Health Information Systems report says 8,656 girls became pregnant in the county last year. Read: Medic backs safe abortion as film board bans advert Muheria urged the faithful to join him in prayer so Marie Stopes Clinic can be prohibited from carrying out abortions. “If you see that signboard, go there and pray for God to hear the cries of our children who die in their clinic. They should be sent away to do their work in Europe and the US,” he said. The clinic had been advocating safe abortion. Last month, the government banned it from offering abortion services. Kenya country director Dana Tilson said other family planning, maternal health and general care services were unaffected. The Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board, citing complaints from the public, also blocked the clinic from publishing misleading information on its website. The organisation was further barred from running advertisements that violate the Public Health Facilities Advertising Rules, 2016. See: Marie Stopes banned from conducting abortions in Kenya Click here for the latest political news