Politics is expected to take center stage today as delegates of the Kenya National Union of Teachers seek to fill four of its top leadership positions. The elections will involve four regions expected to fill the posts of chairman, first and second vice-chairman and deputy secretary-general. Yesterday, candidates seeking posts stepped up their lobbying as they tried to garner the confidence of the 1,887 delegates at the 61st annual delegates conference at Bomas of Kenya. This year’s election could see a shift in Knut politics that have for a long time been region based. Knut traditionally reserves the chairperson position for the Western region, first vice chair (Central), second vice chair (Coast) and assistant secretary general (Nyanza). A fierce face-off is expected in filling the first vice national chairman post and the assistant secretary general position. The positions reserved for Central and Nyanza regions respectively will see the entry of new candidates. Two candidates, Collins Oyuu and Patrick Karinga, are seeking to fill the position of the first vice national chair. Clement Gitaru and Clement Omolo will seek to fill the position of assistant secretary general. The entry of Oyuu and Gitaru could break the union’s tradition as they are from Nyanza and Central regions. Karinga currently serves as the union’s executive chairman Nyeri branch while Oyuu serves as the national assistant secretary general. He took over the position from acting chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi in April of 2017. To ensure a solid central block behind Karinga, Kiambu East Executive Secretary Clement Gicharu who sought to vie for the position of the first vice chair opted out of the contest. However, he still suffers a set back as Oyuu boasts of secretary general Wilson Sossion’s backing. Central region is allocated 217 delegates, Nairobi 44, Coast 140, Eastern 393, North Eastern 21, Nyanza 330, Rift Valley 503, and Western 239. To fill the position, either candidate will seek to garner a majority of the votes. Oyuu yesterday defended his move to vie for the post citing he had the best interest of the union at heart. “This is service like any other and I believe in service democracy comes in handy. Knut is an all-inclusive union and if elected I will serve all without favour,” Oyuu told the Star yesterday on phone. Click here for the latest political news