The year 2018 has had it's own fair share of deaths of prominent figures as well as those of ordinary wananchi. Below is a list of some of the prominent personalities who died:  KENNETH MATIBA Kenneth Matiba, a veteran Kenyan politician, died on April 15 while being treated for stroke at the Karen Hospital. Matiba was hospitalised for a few week after his internal organs started failing. He died at the age 85 years and will be remembered for his role in fighting for multi-party democracy in Kenya.  MIGORI SENATOR BEN OLUOCH OKELLO Ben Oluoch died at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi on June 19 after a battle with throat cancer. He died at 52 years after being treated at among other places India. The senator was replaced by former Cabinet Minister Ochillo Ayacko.  GRACE KIPCHOIM Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim succumbed to cancer at Nairobi Hospital on April 20. The 49-year-old had suffered from acute colon cancer for close to two years. Kipchoim was re-elected on a Jubilee Party ticket on August 8, 2017 despite being sick. She did not campaign due to the illness but won the race on grounds of her development track record and security initiatives.  HENRY OBWOCHA The former West Mugirango MP died on August 4 after collapsing at his home in Nairobi. The KCA university founder was the West Mugirango MP between 1992 to 2007 and was the acting Energy minister in 2006. He was the chairman of the Privatisation Commission at the time of his demise. Obwacha, 69, passed on after complaining he was feeling unwell at his sister-in-law's burial in Nyamira.  NICHOLAS KIPLAGAT BETT The world champion in the 400m hurdles died on the morning of August 8 following a road accident at Lessos, Nandi county. Bett was driving on his way to Nairobi when he lost control of his vehicle, hit a bump and landed in a ditch. He died instantly. The 28-year-old athlete will be remembered for being the first Kenyan to win a gold medal in the men's 400m hurdles in Beijing in 2015.  NYARANGI MOTURI The North Mugirango MP and  former assistant minister died  on August 10 while being rushed to hospital. The Chama Cha Wananchi founder was Moi's chief campaigner in Nyamira county. Until his death, Moturi was running his businesses Amakara, Borabu and Nairobi.  YVONNE WAMALWA Yvonne Wamalwa died at Nanyuki Cottage hospital in January after developing complications. Yvonne, 49, was the widow of former vice president Kijana Wamalwa. Former president Mwai Kibaki had appointed her as Kenya's permanent deputy representative to the United Nations Habitat. Until her death Yvonne was the Deputy Director in the Asia and Australia Directorate in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. See: Kijana Wamalwa's widow Yvonne dies in Nanyuki  ELIUD TIMOTHY MWAMUNGA Eliud Timothy Mwamunga died at the age of 83 while undergoing treatment at Mombasa hospital on January 9. The founder of the Democratic Party of Kenya served Voi for 20 consecutive years as it's legislator between 1969 and 1988. Mwamunga will be remembered for his for fighting against land grabbing, protection for ranchers, water provision and education.  KEN WAFULA The human rights activist succumbed to high blood pressure on January 17 at St Luke's Hospital in Eldoret where he was admitted. The father of three was diabetic and had developed breathing problems and doctors tried in vain to save his life. Wafula was widely involved in the ICC cases which followed the 2007-08 post-election violence and helped protect some of the witnesses. Read: Human rights activist Ken Wafula dies at Eldoret hospital  JOSEPH KAMARU The legendary Kikuyu pop musician passed away on October 2 at MP Shah Hospital where he was admitted. The 79-year-old was suffering from Parkinson's disease. The celebrated musician who was famed for classic hits such as Gathoni and Charia Ungi The late was close to President Jomo Kenyatta but the two later fell out after he condemned JM Kariuki's murder in 1975.  JOHN GAKUO Former Nairobi Town Clerk John Gakuo died on October 30 at the Mbagathi District Hospital in Nairobi. He died after being rushed there from Nairobi West Prison where he was serving a jail sentence. Gakuo was first elected Nairobi Town Clerk in 2004 having served in the provincial administration for over 20 years.   KENNETH KAMTO The former Kilifi deputy governor Kenneth Kamto was shot by three hooded gunmen on December 12 at his Nyali residence as his wife, his mother and the maid watched. Kamto unsuccessfully vied for Kilifi Governor during the 2018 General Election. The deceased's elder sisiter, Chiku Kamto said that this was the third time that gunmen pursued her brother.  ARCHBISHOP JOHN NJENGA The archbishop passed away on November 4 at Mater Hospital after a short illness at the age of 90. Njenga was ordained as a priest in 1957 and posted to Kiserian Junior Seminary where he served for three years before being posted as the first bishop of the Eldoret Diocese. Archbishop Njenga wil be remembered for using the pulpit to champion human rights and an open democratic society. More on this: Uhuru leads Kenyans in mourning retired Catholic Archbishop John Njenga  RICHARD KAVEMBA Chief officer for Transport and Public Works Richard Kavemba passed away on November 14. He died after being admitted to hospital for almost three months due to stomach complications. He was later admitted to the ICU at Nairobi Hospital.  Click here for the latest political news