STARRING: Christian Bale, Cate Blanchett, Benedict Cumberbatch, Naomie Harris, Andy Serkis, Matthew Rhys, Freida Pinto, Rohan Chand BASED ON: Mowgli Characters by Rudyard Kipling RELEASE DATE: December 7  Two years after the incredible success of The Jungle Book comes another adaptation of this childhood favourite tale. Mowgli: Legend of the Jungle retells the story of a young boy whose mother was eaten by the ferocious Tiger Shere Khan. Lost in the jungle, the boy is saved by the black panther, Bagheera. Bagheera takes the man cub to a family of wolves. The family decides to adopt Mowgli as one of their own but not without the permission of Akela, the pack leader. When Shere Khan arrives to take Mowgli, Akela scares him off and tells them that the man cub is part of their pack. Shere Khan vows to kill Mowgli one day. Years later, Mowgli fails the test that is required of him before joining the wolf pack. When Shere Khan comes to challenge Akela, Mowgli runs to the man village and takes fire to frighten Shere Khan. Akela banishes Mowgli for using manmade weapons against his own. Mowgli is forced to live in the man village, where he discovers haunting truths about the past. Compared to its 2016 light and musical predecessor, this version of the Jungle Book might come off as dark and bloody. The raw emotions of the young Mowgli make him yearn for blood. Unlike in different version of the story, in this tale, Mowgli wants revenge and he wants to see blood flow. For a children’s story, the character becomes somewhat scary and formidable. The film is rightly rated PG-13 because it might just work as an adult version of the childhood classic. That being said, Rohan Chand’s performance is nothing short of award-winning. The young man’s portrayal of an angry Mowgli is praiseworthy. His raw emotions do not fail to engage the audience. The film doesn’t fail to compare to former versions of the story. However, it is worth the watch should you wish for a darker version of your favourite childhood story.  Star Rating: 4/5