Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati has asked MPs to come up with more punitive laws against those impregnating school girls to end the vice. Wangamati on Thursday said pregnancy ruins the li9ves of young girls and that culprits should be severely punished. “If you are looking for a student to impregnate then buy uniform for your wife and do whatever you want to do with her. Leave the schoolgirls alone because you will totally ruin the life of that child,” Wangamati said. He spoke at the funeral of Charles Kalori Etyang in Kaujakito village in Teso North, Busia. Etyang, 79, was the father of Wangamati's friend John Etyang. The governor said rising cases of teenage pregnancies in Bungoma and Busia were a cause for worry. The two counties lead in cases of schoolgirl pregnancies in Western region. During Jamhuri Day celebrations, Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong put on notice rapists. In a speech read on his behalf by Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, Ojaamong said the society will not tolerate those destroying the future of children. Bungoma has had a high number of teen’s dropping out of school due to pregnancies that are caused by polit9cinas, relatives, boaboda riders, tutors and even police officers. The most affected areas especially during this circumcision year when such cases are on increase include Bumula, Sirisia and Mt Elgon. Wangamati thanked Busia residents for re-electing Governor Ojamong whom he said was his great friend. Wangamati said that he and Ojamong will walk together to achieve the socio-economic development of the two counties. The Bungoma Governor lauded Mzee Etyang was blessed with 21 children which is close to his father Patrick Wangamati who managed 21 children, which is no mean achievement. He said the Governor is a great friend of his and urged other Western leaders to walk together for the benefit of Western region residents. “My driver is a Teso and James Olubayi was my partner at Alexander Fobes, to confirm that I don’t discriminate Tesos in my administration.” he said.