Ford Kenya Kakamega branch has started a process that could see former Senator Boni Khalwale de-whipped for unbecoming conduct. The branch executive committee cited grounds of the former lawmaker's support for Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Khalwale is the party deputy leader and is a member of the Kakamega branch. In a Sunday meeting, the branch said the former Senator's association with Ruto was personal and has nothing to do with party. The officials say the subject's action amount to sabotage to his boss Moses Wetang’ula who has declared interest in bidding for the top job. They want Khalwale disciplined and his membership withdrawn. Early this week, Ford Kenya endorsed Wetang’ula as its flag bearer in the next general election. Branch secretary Joseph Barasa said that it was wrong for Khalwale to loiter around proclaiming support for the DP when his own party leader is a candidate. "Khalwale is on his own in what he is doing since that is not the party position. If it is a business he is doing with the DP, it’s his and not the party’s." "We have recommended to the party to summon Khalwale and discipline him," Barasa said. Barasa said that the former legislator has never convened a single party meeting since he joined the party from UDF. Khalwale, Mumias East MP Ben Washiali, Kimilili’s Didmas Barasa and Sports CS Rashid Echesa led a delegation of Luhyas living in Kiambu, Kawangware, Kibera, Mathare, Kangemi and Kasarani to meet the DP at his Karen residence. Khalwale’s close association with the DP raised suspicion over the much-touted merger between Ford Kenya and Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC, leading to the collapse of the union. The merger was to give birth to a new single political entity capable of uniting the Luhya bloc vote ahead of the 2022 race. The branch officials asked Wetang’ula to re-engage with Mudavadi and forge a working arrangement that will benefit the Luhya community and the nation at large. "Khalwale’s demeanor led to suspicion that curtailed a noble course that would benefit the community in general," Barasa said. "We know that we shall to go far without him [Khalwale] than with him," he told journalists. Also read: Khalwale formally joins Ruto's camp, says he will be President in 2022 Related: Ruto allies welcome Khalwale support Click here for the latest political news