Equity Bank has shortlisted 67 students for its Wings to Fly secondary scholarship awards. Mandera branch's manager for business growth and development Said Hassan on Saturday said the candidates were picked from a pool of 150 who applied. The applicants were candidates who sat the KCPE exam in November. "Many did not qualify because they scored low marks," Hassan said. Hassan said about 80 unsuccessful applicants were rejected because their marks were too low. The scholarship gives priority to students who are orphans, those with disabilities, victims of natural disasters and those whose parents are living with HIV-Aids. "They must be bright and have scored more than 350 marks in KCPE," Hassan said. He said interviews had begun in many counties and that Mandera will this week conduct its interviews. Last year, only 12 students benefited from the scholarship in Mandera. Hassan said they were targeting between 15 and 20 students for next year's scholarship. Beneficiaries get full school fees, transport to school and pocket money. While speaking to the press on Saturday said over 150 candidates who sat for the 2018 Kenya Certificate of Education (KCPE) had applied for the scholarships dubbed 'Wings to FLY'. "While the interviews for the wings to fly scholarship have begun in many counties, only 67 applicants were shortlisted for the exercise in Mandera as many did not qualify due to low KCPE marks" said Hassan . Hassan disclosed the beneficiaries must come from the most vulnerable families like orphans, those living with disabilities, victims of natural disaster and children whose parents are living with HIV/AIDS among other criterion. Hassan said the branch is targeting between 15-20 students unlike in 2017 when only 12 qualified for the awards. Equity bank that is sponsoring the most vulnerable but bright boys and girls who scored above 350 marks in this year's KCPE from the entire county will provide full scholarship that includes school fees, transport and pocket money to the beneficiaries.