Many women prefer to stick to the same beauty routine for years, however as their faces changes so should their makeup. So to help women choose the right regime for them, New Zealand website Beauty Heaven has revealed the common mistakes women make that are ageing them. Here it has been revealed how they can avoid making the five most common mistakes and the simple tricks they can adopt for a youthful glow. 1. Wearing too much foundation With age it is important that people ease up when using foundation so as to not look 'cakey' and so the natural skin tone remains visible. Instead of piling on layers of different products women should try taking a less-is-more approach with a more full-coverage fluid foundation. 'Apply sparingly with a dense bristle foundation brush focussing only on the areas that need it to hide redness, dark circles, pigmentation, veins, broken capillaries and uneven skin tone, rather than your whole face,' Beauty Heaven's advice reads. Previously former Priceline Pharmacy make up director, Rae Morris, said different age groups should all have a different approach to foundation. When working on the skin of a teenager she used BB cream as a foundation and applied it lightly over the face. When people are in their twenties people can still get away with using a BB cream or if they have redness or unevenness they can step it up a notch and use a sheer light foundation For women in their thirties and forties Rae suggested using a mattifying primer to prep the skin before applying a liquid foundation. Rae said women in their fifties and above should aim for a dewy and hydrated foundation rather than anything too matte so that it doesn't set in any fine lines. 2. Choosing a thick concealer to hide dark circles According to Beauty Heaven a lot of people worry about dark circles looking worse as skin gets thinner under the eyes. 'Instead of choosing a thick, opaque cream concealer, choose a liquid concealer, with light diffusing qualities applied sparingly,' they advised. 'Try to avoid extending concealer out past the outer edge of the eye socket as that’s where skin moves and creases and caking can become more prominent.' Rae recommended people let the concealer sit for a minute to heat before massaging it in. 3. Only using eyeliner to line the bottom of the eye Although applying eyeliner to underneath the eye has been a trend over the years, it should be avoided. This is because it can accentuate dark circles and make eyes appear smaller. Instead women should use a soft pencil in a slightly lighter shade of brown, grey or navy and line top lids close to the lash line, smudging softly afterwards with an eyeshadow brush. 'Always pair liner with mascara or it can make your eyes look smaller,' they advise. 4. Wearing blush too low or skipping it altogether Blush is used to add a youthful glow to people's complexions but according to Beauty Heaven putting it too low, such as only on the apples of the cheeks, can draw attention to the lack of volume in that area. They recommend that instead makeup lovers place it higher on the cheekbones, sweeping on an upwards and outwards motion. 'Pay attention to shade choice too. Some choose a brown colour because they think they are adding definition and contouring, but it ends up looking muddy, dull, and like the makeup is just sitting on your skin,' they said. 'Others choose a product that is too soft in colour, which can wash you out and age you as well. To find the right shade, pinch your cheeks and try to match the natural colour that you get when you actually blush. A flattering shade for most is a neutral rose pink. Rae revealed that she opts for a cream blush and never uses a powder blush over the top of liquid foundation. 5. Wearing too much slippery lip gloss It is a natural part of life that as people age the skin around their lips develop tiny creases. The unfortunate side effect of putting slippery and bright lip gloss is they can quickly 'migrate into the lines' which makes makeup look messy. 'You can always try a good liner, otherwise wearing a cream or matte formulation with just a dab of gloss in the centre will give you the same look without shifting and bleeding into lines,' it says on Beauty Heaven. Click here for the latest political news