Friends School Kamusinga will admit most of this year’s top KCPE performers in Bungoma following the Form One selection that started on Monday. Marcel Okuku, the top boy from the county who scored 438 marks from Lukonyi Boys in Matayos, was selected to join the school. The placement irked his parents who questioned why their son was not selected to join his dream school, Alliance High School. Okuku’s classmate Leonard Maskhalia who scored 422 marks will also join him at Kamusinga. The national school located in Bungoma county has also selected Nambale’s top performers from Magnate School: Benjamin Salamba and Duncan Sande who scored 429 marks and 428 marks respectively. Bunyala’s top performer Yusuf Kachero from Sirimba Primary School who scored 419 marks was also selected to join Kamusinga as was Bonventure Emmanuel who got 412 marks. Others to join the national school are St James ACK Malaba’s George Ochoko and Joseph Opiyo who scored 425 and 414 marks respectively. Other schools which selected top performers from the county include Alliance High School, Mang’u High, Machakos Boys High School and Kapsabet Boys. The top boy at St James Model Academy Nambale, Ombogo Wesley, who scored 430 marks and Michael Yoto who got 419 marks have been selected to join their dream school, Alliance High School. Billy Odaba who scored 423 marks is set to join Machakos Boys High School while Jacob Ong’aria of Magnate School Nambale who scored 430 marks will join Mangu High. Abel Iduka of St Thomas Chakol Primary in Teso South who scored 419 marks and Matin Oite with 417 marks will both join Kapsabet Boys. In the girls’ schools, the county’s top girl Edith Muthoni from St Catherine Nangina Girls who scored 438 marks will join Alliance Girls High School. Mitchel Buyengo who got 430 marks and Teso North’s top girl Patience Okumu who scored 407 marks will both join Kenya High. They will be joined by Consolata Kilima of Maganate School who scored 414 marks.Others to join top girls national schools are Nancy Barasa - 416 marks (Pangani Girls), Wandera Apiyo - 402 marks (Starehe Girls) and Felicia Amoit - 400 marks.