Mombasa county is safer than most parts of the country, governor Hassan Joho has said. Joho rubbished claims of runaway insecurity in the county, saying the city has only suffered from ‘stereotyping’ based on past crime incidents which have now been tackled. “In my time as Kisauni MP, crime was at its worst, but all that is gone, we have peace now,” he said. Joho called for sober, fair reporting saying Mombasa’s economy relies on tourism, which has been negatively affected by reports of increased criminal activities. He called on leaders to stop attacking each other on matters of insecurity and join the efforts to fight mushrooming youth gangs. “For once, we should pull in one direction in matters of peace. We need to stop speaking at each other and begin speaking with each other,” Joho said. He spoke at Mombasa Kenya School of Government yesterday during a security meeting of the city’s leaders. The meeting, aimed at identifying security challenges and finding ways to tackle them. It involved leaders drawn from top security leaders, religious leaders, members of county assembly, members of parliament, private security firm providers and human rights groups. Read: Juvenile killings in Mombasa alarming, crimes escalating - activists Regional coordinator Bernard Lemparamarai said that the media was not publicising the good works of police. He called on the media to be objective in their reporting and have correct facts. Lemparamarai said clubs should regulate their operating hours and called on authorities to minimise their numbers as they seek to renew their licenses next year. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said insecurity was being fueled partly by lack of enough functioning streetlights. Her Kisauni counterpart Ali Mbogo said that leaders of areas not inflicted by crime should help those who are most affected. “If we work together, we will see change,” he said. Mbogo called on leaders to set aside their political affiliations and help combat insecurity. “If we have the Building bridges initiative and handshake, who are we? Why can’t we sit together?” he posed. Nyali MP Mohamed Ali said the meeting should have been held last year adding that more similar meetings should be held to curb insecurity. Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi called for more partnerships between security agencies and political leaders. After the one hour closed-door meeting, the leaders came up with a 22-point resolution document. Among the resolutions was a proposal to have an audit of village elders and grassroots leaders who will be vetted afresh. Others include improving police and public partnerships, civilian police on a regular basis and strengthening of the Nyumba Kumi and community policing initiatives. See: [VIDEO] Shoot to kill? Mombasa police gun down youths in crime war Click here for
the latest political news