The Judiciary has set aside another one week to deal with more than 1,100 pending cases at the High Court in Eldoret. Justice Hellen Omondi says many of the cases relate to murder and sexual offences. She says five judges will be deployed to Eldoret for one week next month to deal with the pending cases. “We have cleared many cases but we will still make effort to ensure we do not have backlog of cases as has been the case,” said Justice Omondi. LSK North Rift chairman Zephania Yego praised efforts of the judiciary to clear pending cases in courts. “So far the judiciary has helped to deal with about 2,000 cases and we hope the remaining will be dealt with next month,” said Yego. At the same time, the Judiciary warned over increased use of fake documents presented in courts in the North Rift region by people seeking to be released on bond. Magistrates in the region have raised concern over influx of the fake documents which include title deeds, medical letters and P3 forms required by courts. “It’s shocking how many people are now daring to use fake documents in courts. It is a worrying trend that has to be checked,” said Eldoret Chief Magistrate Charles Obulutsa. Obulutsa said cartels including illegal property valuers were part of the scheme behind the increased circulation of the fake documents. “The DCI and other relevant authorities are helping us deal with the illegal schemes being used to defeat justice,” said Obulutsa, who was speaking to journalists in Eldoret. He said courts had been forced to reject most of the documents being presented until they are subjected to proper authentication. “People forge even medical letters and present them to court. We have to rectify this terrible situation where there are those who want to defeat justice through hook and crook,” said Oblutsa. He said the judiciary had published the names of genuine and licensed valuation firms, which will be required to evaluate bond documents before they are presented to court. “We have also cautioned lawyers to ensure that their clients use only genuine documents in courts,” said Obulutsa. “It’s the duty of lawyers to ensure that their clients do not cheat courts. They should clearly warn the clients on the dangers of such criminal acts,” said Obulutsa. Court registry staff members have also been cautioned against aiding accused people who use fake documents. “If our staff members are found to be involved in such schemes then they will face the law,” said Obulutsa.