Garbage collection in Nairobi county has improved from 800 to 2,000 tonnes a day, the county government has said. Nairobi county Environment executive Larry Wambua said on Friday collection improved especially after the launch of Nairobi monthly clean-up. He says the county government has launched 24-hour garbage collection to improve cleanliness. “Throughout the clean-ups we have mobilised residents through area leaders. Thus, we have improved from collecting 800 tonnes daily to an average of 2,000 tonnes a day, ” Larry said. On Saturday Nairobi holds its six and last monthly cleanup for the year. Clean-up takes place every Saturday in all 85 wards and is headed by subcounty administrations and MCAs. UN Habitat, Hand in Hand, DTB bank and youth groups will be the key stakeholders. The main event will be held at Kiboro Primary School, Mathare subcounty. Early this year, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s administration has been on the spot over firth i the city and failed collection. About 2,400 tonnes of solid waste is generated daily in the capital city but only about 1,500 tonnes was collected and deposited at the Dandora dumpsite. In June Sonko launched the monthly clean-up and flagged off more than 850 pieces of cleaning equipment. Chief officer for environment David Makori said the aim is for city residents to drive the clean-up programmes. “It’s a culture we want to inculcate in people, because having a cleaner environment is everyone’s responsibility and slowly we are letting people lead the exercise.” Corporates and informal groups have collaborated. In October, it emerged that garbage collecting companies were being paid different amounts for delivering the same services. The county was also accused of being reluctant to renew contracts for garbage contractors after it was discovered that 30 contracts of different companies had expired in September. The county responded that it had not renewed any contract, some were still running and it would follow due process to renew them. Contracts have not been renewed because they expired. However, the city has six new contractors and is in the process of procuring more. In March this year, the Sh28 billion Nairobi county government recycling power plant project was revived after City Hall acquired the title deed for the 30-year-old Dandora dumpsite. It is filled but garbage has been compressed so that more can be dumped. In November 2016, a German investor withdrew from the recycling project because the county did not have the title deed in its possession. Governor Sonko said the recycling plant would be procured through public-private partnership. He said the tender would be awarded to a company to manage the plant in strict conformity to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act.