Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has blamed Governor Mike Sonko for the transport crisis in Nairobi. Kuria on Monday said Sonko is opposed to the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NAMATA) established by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 to address challenges in the transport sector. The legislature said Sonko's ban was made without necessary consultation from key stakeholders. "The last thing we need is reactionary and unilateral decisions on a matter that requires so many parties to work together. This is a team sport not a round of squash," he said. In a statement to the media, Kuria who serves as Parliament's Transport and Public Works committee vice chair said Sonko is opposed to NAMATA on grounds that it is a ploy to deny him revenue and claw back on his powers. "His latest moves to adopt knee-jerk measures to 'decongest the city' are just a smokescreen meant to divert attention from his opposition to NAMATA," he added. The lawmaker called upon the Governor to suspend his 'walkathon' orders until consultations take place. In a move to decongest the city, Sonko directed all PSVs accessing the CBD to drop off passengers outside the city centre. The ban caught many commuters unawares on Monday morning as they were forced to trek several kilometres to connect matatus at various terminus away from the city. Read: City Hall bans matatus from CBD effective December 3 Also read: {PHOTOS} Commuters stranded as CBD matatu ban takes effect Kuria noted that Nairobi's transportation problems are complex as they have built up over time and they require sophisticated, comprehensive, well thought out and multi-disciplinary solutions. "The long-term solution to the transportation woes of the greater Nairobi Metropolitan Area lies in the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (NAMATA)," he said. The lawmaker called on Governors Joseph Ole Lenku, Alfred Mutua, Mike Sonko, Ferdinand Waititu and Mwangi wa Iria to come forward and work with Parliament to operationalise NAMATA. The authority covers the counties of Nairobi City, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a. Read: Chaos loom as matatu owners pledge to defy CBD access ban Click here for the latest political news