I am a great fan of Tottenham and Kenyan midfielder Victor Wanyama and I think he is one of the Premier League’s top defenders. However, things have not been good for Victor so far this season following a knee injury in a pre-season match against Barcelona. The 27-year-old is fit again now but is struggling to make it back into Tottenham’s first team squad. He originally moved to the north London club from Southampton for just £9million two years ago and was a Spur’s regular starter, making 47 appearances in his first season. I am further alarmed that he is now out of favour and I have heard whispers from inside White Hart Lane that Watford’s £35million rated Abdoulaye Doucoure is on Spur’s radar as a possible replacement for Wanyama. I would be very disappointed in manager Mauricio Pochettino if that happens. Hopefully Victor will fight his way back into a regular starting place. Chelsea given a wake up call Mauricio Sarri’s excellent start to the season came to a crashing halt on Saturday when they were torn apart by Tottenham. From the cool, smiling man we have come to know over the past few months, Sarri was turned into an aggressive angry man who turned on his team. I witnessed the press conference which was very negative and then a couple of phones calls on Sunday told me that the Chelsea players had been summoned to their Cobham training ground at 7.30am on Monday to analyse what had gone wrong. Sarri arrived at 7am and was in no mood to greet his players with a smile and a handshake. Breakfast was put on hold and the training ground conference room was prepared for a stormy session. Each player in turn spent time with Sarri and their performance was picked apart. Dele Alli, Harry Kane and Son Heung-min ran the Chelsea defence ragged and even my own favourite David Luiz was often caught out of position. Sarri said: “The defence was a disaster, the offensive players did not press hard enough and the midfielders defended badly.” In my opinion, Sarri has to look at his strategy of using Jorginho as the deep-lying playmaker. The problem is Jorginho lacks pace and opposing teams have worked out that if you stop Jorginho you stop Chelsea. Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino exploited that weakness and during the week had trained his key players to attack Jorginho. It also exposes Sarri’s mistake in moving N’Golo Kante to accommodate a 4-3-3 system, which suits Jorginho but leaves Kante out of position. The manager contradicted himself by criticisng Kante for attacking too much and said he should stay closer to Jorginho but previously he has encouraged the Frenchman to get forward. Chelsea are only a point ahead of fifth-placed Arsenal and their home match against Fulham should give them a winning return but it all depends on how well that Monday training has got them back on track. Man United lack desire and confidence As Sir Alex Ferguson and Sir Bobby Charlton sit in their executive seats watching poor performances from their beloved Manchester United, it is sad to see the disappointment on their faces. The fans reaction to United’s home draw with Crystal Palace last weekend has been considerable. United have faithful supporters at Old Trafford and around the world but currently they are being let down by the players and the manager. United should be a top four club. In 2012-13 under Sir Alex Ferguson, United were a truly amazing team, full of spirit, full of desire and full of potential. Rio Ferdinand, Nemanja Vidic, Jonny Evans, Patrice Evra, Michael Carrick, Wayne Rooney, Ryan Giggs and Robin van Persie. They were fighters with a winning mentality. Under Ferguson, if United lost a game they would hit back with a straight run of wins. There was a belief in the manager and a belief that the team could beat any opponent anywhere in the world. With the current United, it is difficult to generate such enthusiasm and a winning mentality when a manager publicly criticises his players as Mourinho did again last week. The fans I have talked to think that this manager is guilty of inhibiting the club and the players with negative tactics and management. Watching United struggle against lowly Crystal Palace I could see plainly that there is a lack of desire and confidence in the players. Ozil failing the physical test When Mesut Ozil arrived from Real Madrid, he did so with trumpets blowing and Arsenal fans cheering and £42million of the Gunner’s bank balance well spent. He was a true superstar from one of the world’s best teams. How times have changed. At times he is brilliant, at times awful and at times he goes completely missing in a game. At time, he is the number one name the manager writes on his team sheet and at other times Mesut finds himself on the bench. Against Bournemouth last weekend, he was on the bench and was wrapped up in so much clothing that you could only see his eyes. Not for him playing against the aggressive physical strength of Bournemouth or facing a cold winter day. Now Arsenal manager Unai Emery has come out and said publicly that the German playmaker must toughen up to face the physical challenges of the Premier League or he will not feature in the team. Emery said: “At the beginning of the season, we spoke every day about the need to be competitive. We need the individual quality to improve our performance. It’s still same and I am still asking the same of some players.” I agree with Emery and his treatment of Ozil. I well remember from years back Sir Alex Ferguson falling out with David Beckham, Dwight Yorke and Andy Cole and he dropped them from the team and their response at the time was to work harder, play harder and together, the manager and his players turned things around. Unai Emery’s action is a message to other players that Ozil might be the biggest name at the Emirates and a World Cup winner but leaving him out makes a statement that no player can expect to be automatically chosen to start a game. Ranieri, the family man bonding Fulham New Fulham manager Claudio Ranieri is using his knowledge, gained at title winning Leicester, to his best advantage at Fulham. He is trying to bond the players and has now insisted they all eat together. He has also insisted that players must remain in the club canteen until everyone has finished their lunch. This did not happen under previous manager Slavisa Jokanovic. He has also introduced a new pattern to training where all players have to work together and be in step with one another. For instance if the lead player puts his right foot forward then all other players have to do the same. From what I saw, all the players have embraced the new rules. Team spirit has been a problem this season after the club spent £100million on new players at the start of the current campaign. Defender Cyrus Christie said of Ranieri, “He has got a great personality and is putting us all together as a team instead of just being individuals. We like eating together and staying together until the last person finishes. It helps us bond closer. Claudio speaks to everyone when they arrive in the morning and says ‘hello’ and he never moans if we get things wrong as long as we are playing to his instructions. The small things have given us much more confidence.” Fulham are still bottom and face a stiff challenge this Sunday in a derby match against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge which is only two miles away from Fulham’s Craven Cottage stadium. Pay the money and get results I was sent the Premier League club salaries this week and noticed straight away that the more a club pays, the more successful they are. Top salary payers are Man United with an average salary payment of £6.5million. Then comes Man City on £6million followed by Chelsea with £5m and Liverpool and Arsenal on £4.8m. At the bottom of the Premier League salaries are Cardiff on £1m average, Huddersfield on £1.2m and Burnley on £1.6m. If you look at the league table you will see that City, United, Liverpool, Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham are at the top. The teams with the lowest average wages such as Cardiff, Huddersfield and Burnley, are at the bottom. You get what you pay for. Laporte is No1 for City When you are asked to step into the shoes of a player like Manchester City’s Belgian defender Vincent Kompany ,it is a daunting task. If it was suggested to you that your name would be the first on manager Pep Guardiola’s team sheet each week, you might be a little sceptical. Central defender Aymeric Laporte has succeeded in both those career boosting achievements. Laporte has played in all of City’s winning matches this season and no team player has made more starts. The Frenchman has proved he is worth the £57million paid to Spanish club Athletic Bilbao last January. For a reason, I cannot explain, the French team manager Didier Dechamps continues to ignore the central defender for his national team but that delights Pep Guardiola because it means Laporte doesn’t have to go away for long international breaks and also cope with recovery periods after an away match. He can rest during those international matches. Originally Laporte turned down a move to City when Pep took over in 2016 but the manager was relentless in pursuing his No1 choice because he realised that Laporte could become a stylish, solid defensive rock in the heart of the defence. And so it has proved. Pep is also pleased that he has a natural left footer in his defence and the Frenchman sprays out accurate passes with his pink boots as he plays out from the back in typical Guardiola style. Standing 6ft 3ins, Laporte looks a giant when defending his goalkeeper in set pieces and handles crosses from either wing. Laporte now rivals Virgil van Dyke as the Premier League’s most complete centre half.