Police should not start arresting Probox drivers and motorcyclists for allegedly violating traffic laws, Opposition leader Raila Odinga has said. He said legal action should be taken against officers who arrest and frustrate the motorists before new rules go into effect in May 2019. Speaking during Ndhiwa Sports and Cultural Festival at Pala Primary School on Wednesday, Raila said arrests are frustrating boda boda operators and Probox drivers. He said he has talked to Interior CS Fred Matiang’i over harassment of the motorists and motorcyclists. “Implementation of the Michuki rules on boda boda riders and Probox drivers was suspended until May 2019. I say here that any police officer who harasses them before that time is themselves committing a crime,” the opposition leader said. He urged boda boda riders to report police officers who frustrate them — and get their badge numbers to be registered to await legal action. “Any rider or driver who is harassed by police should record the service number of the officers because we want rogue officers accountable,” Raila said. He added that anybody operating businesses legally should not be arrested. “What is happening to the riders and drivers is killing the spirit of investment,” Raila added. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Senator Moses Kajwang’ concurred. Wanga urged police to abide by the postponement of the stringent traffic rules and stay on hold until May next year. She said no legal action should be taken against a Probox driver who carries five passengers. “Let police adhere to postponement as stipulated by the Cabinet Secretary [Fred Matiang’i],” Wanga said. Kajwang’ said boda boda riders play crucial roles that should not be ignored. He argued that the harassment forces boda boda riders to part with fines of as much as Sh5,000 to be freed. “Sh5,000 is a monthly income for a boda boda rider but it is very sad that they are fined that money so many times in a month,” Kajwang’ said. He argued that the trend will cause a serious economic setback in the area, saying boda boda riders are the key drivers of the economy. “The boda boda sector is a good source of income for many youths. Frustrating them means impeding the process of job creation the county,” he said. Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino expressed worry over persistent harassment of the drivers and riders saying the stringent rules suppress boda boda riders and Probox drivers in the country.