Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot has filed a petition in court seeking the dissolution of the Building Bridges taskforce. The team was set up through a May 31 gazette notice to steer President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's handshake. The Building Bridges to Unity Advisory Team was formed to consult Kenyans on way out of the violence that follows every election cycle. But Aukot, in the petition filed on Thursday, says the team has no legal mandate. He argues in court papers that the decision to create the team was made in total disregard of the constitutional requirement for public participation. Aukot further says the task force was formed in a way that contravenes the provisions of Article 132 of the Constitution as well as Chapter 15 of the Constitution on the establishment of commissions and independent offices. "In fact, the task force is usurping the functions and roles of already established commissions and offices which Kenyan taxpayers have already allocated substantial amounts to undertake the very functions the task force purports to undertake," he says in court papers.  Aukot has named Head of Public Service James Kinyua, the Building Bridges team, and Attorney General as the respondents. All members of the task force and the two joint secretaries are named as interested parties in the case. Amb Martin Kimani and lawyer Paul Mwangi are the team's joint secretaries. Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Senator Amos Wako, Florence Omose, Prof Saeed Mwanguni , James Matundura, Major (rtd) John Seii, and Bishop Lawi Imathiu are members. Others in the team are Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Moseu, and Archbishop Zecheus Okoth. The petitioner argues that the gazette notice establishing the team is unconstitutional as it is pursuant to 'a personal and private agreement between two individuals'. "In any event, such an agreement cannot be imposed on the general public as it would amount to imposing the objectives of two individuals against procedures laid down in the Constitution." "The respondents' decision was biased, predetermined and unfounded in law. The decision to that extent is illegal and unfair and offends the Constitution," Aukot says. He wants the court to declare that the Building Bridges team is unconstitutional, illegal, null, and void. Read: Handshake committee gazetted, given a year to present report Also read: Building Bridges team briefs Uhuru, Raila at State House Click here for the latest political news