The Embu assembly passed a motion to compel Governor Martin Wambora to suspend four chief officers over alleged misconduct. They want Ruth Ndirangu (Finance), Grace Murithi (Health), Samuel Njue (Youth Empowerment) and Jerevasio Muchungu (Education) to immediately step aside pending investigations. The motion was tabled by Evurore MCA Duncan Mbui on Thursday. Only two out of 33 MCAs — Margaret Kariuki and Terry Mbuchi — opposed the motion. Kariuki left before the voting. The chief officers are accused of incompetence, abuse of office, breach of the Public Finance Management Act of 2012, violating the County Governments Act of 2012 and violation of the Constitution. MCAs who supported the motion accused the four officials of overseeing financial irregularities and disregarding the authority of the assembly through unilateral unsanctioned decisons. They said their actions have hampered development. “These chief officers have diverted funds set aside for various projects to other uses. They also diverted conditional grants to unauthorised usage,” Mbui said. The MCAs cited a Sh40 million conditional grant for polytechnics, which was allegedly diverted to payment of bill. They alleged that Sh50 million meant for roofing the Embu Municipal Stadium was used to decorate the Talent Academy. It was allegedly irregularly channelled to the Talent Academy decoration. Earlier, majority whip and nominated MCA Judy Mbuya had sought permission from deputy speaker Steve Munene to order Jubilee MCAs not to leave the assembly chamber and to support the motion. She said this would help the county government improve services. The ward representatives said the move is not aimed at frustrating Governor Wambora, but to rid his administration of officials who slow down services. The MCAs also said the four chief officers are not being victimised as alleged by opponents of the motion. They said if they are exonerated, they would be reinstated. The deputy speaker ordered the assembly clerk to communicate the motion to the county executive to tell the four officers to steop aside. Munene also ordered immediate formation of an ad hoc committee to investigate the allegations levelled against the four officials. The committee is expected to commence working after being aprroved by MCAs on Tuesday. County secretary Johnson Nyaga on Friday said he is waiting for official communication from the assembly.