I’m anxiously waiting for Santa to make an appearance next week. This guy is perfect for a one-night stand. He is known and loved all over the world, so in terms of references, he has the best. He only comes around once a year and is gone quickly enough. He spreads a lot of joy to the world, so how about spreading the best kind? Someone once wrote that the reason he’s so damn jolly is because he knows where all the bad girls live. He brings presents, lots of them. Any man who does that is halfway there. I remember the instructions of how to reach the man well enough. All you do is write him a damn letter. It seems he has time to read them all, seeing as he does nothing else with his time all year. I wonder if Mrs Claus will see this missive? I hope not. I take out a pen and paper and start writing.  Dear Santa, Hi. I hope all is well. It’s been a long year. Have I been a good girl? Well, no. As you probably already know (because these damn snitches are everywhere!), I have done plenty of bad things. But I did them to bad people, so that’s ok, right? Karma was probably using me as her guiding hand. As the end of the year closes, Karma thought it hilarious to give me my own payback. She gave me a rose and riddled it with thorns. As a result I have let go of the best-looking man I have ever dated (with hands-down the best sex I’ve ever had), but I realise that to be happy, I need more than that. I would like a good man, Santa. That’s my wish for Christmas. A generous man. A guy like you, Santa. You’re always happy and that’s important to me because I love positive people. You’re warm and kind. You probably give the best hugs, too! You probably know how to make love to a woman, too. I’m sure that beard, buried in the right place, can cause a whole load of favourable sensations. Yes, Santa. One night for the history books, with amazing cunnilingus straight from the North Pole. I’m sure you don’t normally do this, but I’m hoping you’ll make an exception. I wouldn’t mind being your ho, ho, ho. That joke will never grow old, Santa. I’m sure you’ve heard it all your life. I’m looking forward to seeing you soon. I understand you like milk and cookies. I have plenty of milk — ­if you know what I mean — and the cookie (ha ha!) is baked and waiting. Sincerely, Samantha. I put the letter in an envelope and address it to: Mr Santa Claus North Pole HOH OHO I have some errands to run and I decide to quickly drop this at the post office first. The lady at the counter looks at the address and has no visible reaction to what I’ve written. She makes some enquires on her computer and after a few minutes says: “We don’t deliver to the North Pole.” Bummer. “Try Finland,” she says. “Finland?” I ask. More surprised that she actually knows who Santa is rather than she is being helpful in finding him. “Yes, that’s his main post office,” she says and writes down an address for me. I purchase another envelope from some gentleman outside the post office and write down the address she has given me: Santa Claus Main Post Office Tähtikuja 1, 96930 Rovaniemi, Finland I take the letter back to the counter. “He has his own post office?” I ask. She nods impatiently and types furiously on her keyboard. I pay her and get a receipt. Addressee: Santa Claus. Cool!