The National Police Service has announced a plan to cut the number of annual recruits by half. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet on Thursday said next year, the service will reduce the number from 10,000 recruits to 5,000. This, he said, is in line with the police reforms under the new recruits training curriculum. He said so far under the new curriculum, 10,000 recruits have graduated. "We are piloting for the second phase which will is targeting to focus on training of corporals, sergeants and senior sergeants under the same programme next year," he said. Boinnet said the service has also completed drafting another curriculum that will see a direct entry of Chief Inspector of Police and Assistant Chief Inspectors into the service. We are currently working on a module that will see all the examinations standardised across all the institutions. This means all the uniformed men and women will sit for the same exam irrespective of the service they serve in," he said. The IG said the service also seeks to introduce recruitment of high calibre manpower for specialised services. The IG said this will play a key role in incorporating management of skills within the service. Boinnet spoke at Lunar Park during the launch of the first National Police Service week. He said the event aims to do away with the fear members of the public have towards the service. Boinnet said the service will not only use the event to showcase what it does, but also interact with the public and listen to feedback as it aims to ensure a police force that is people-centred. His sentiments were echoed by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who said the public should find time to interact with the police to understand how officers work. In regards to the general police reforms, Matiang'i said changes will be completed within 90 days. He said a report has been forwarded to President Uhuru Kenyatta, awaiting implementation. Matian'gi said the police service will host an annual Police Service week. Read: Kavuludi , police chiefs clash on hiring and firing Also read: Police hiring suspended as top bosses disagree Click here for the latest political news