Christmas is coming Tuesday. It doesn’t quite feel like it, though, and over the last couple of years, I have been feeling that the festive season isn’t what it used to be. Maybe it’s just me getting older and seeing things differently. Or it could be a case of ‘that’s how life goes, things change’. Take the Christmas tree, for instance. Back in my day, there used to be a Christmas tree in every living room. I don’t come across Christmas trees in anyone’s house anymore. I see plastic ones being sold in malls around the city during the season, but I can’t say I’ve ever seen anyone buy them so I guess they must be sold in secret. I should probably tell you about the Christmas trees back in my day. This is in the mid 80s, and the trees weren’t plastic. They were cypress trees chopped from somewhere then put in a pot with gravel or soil to support the murdered plant to stand upright. The pot itself was covered in colourful gift-wrap paper. As for the tree, it was festooned with all sorts of Christmas decorations, including twinkling Christmas lights. Often by the 28th, that tree would be dead and dry as dirt. Didn’t make a difference to the twinkling lights, though. They’d keep going until New Year’s, and those suckers would get hot. How this combination of dead dry tree and blinking hot, tiny lights didn’t start a fire was a Christmas miracle. Then there was the cotton wool on the tree, signifying snow. Even at 12 years of age, this snow concept didn’t make sense to me. Why it wasn’t totally incongruous to the adults baffles. Christmas in the 90s is a little hazy. I won’t go into details, other than to say there were a lot of clubs, much dancing, and a long line of random strangers who had pens and paper a brother could borrow to write down a telephone number. The one thing that hasn’t changed about Christmas — a good thing I’d say — is family get-togethers. I’m talking about real families, not ‘Hallmark movie, everyone’s perfect, happy, and getting along’ fictional families. Every family is crazy in its own way, and big families are the craziest. You have the uncle who goes off his meds every Christmas family get-together. You can tell he’s off his meds because he’s telling you how sad he is about a cat dying. ‘You had a cat?’ you ask. ‘No,’ he says, and he leaves it that. How about the cousin whose wife just left him? The rest of you don’t know what to say while you’re around him, so you spend most the time with something in your mouth, food or drink, just so you don’t say anything stupid or insensitive. And then there’s granny who doesn’t remember most of you because she’s old and there are entirely too many of you in the family. There’s the cousin who comes with a new boyfriend every Christmas get-together. He’s the one, she always says, until next Christmas. Let’s not forget the annoying relative who’s always bragging about the expensive stuff he owns. That’s family for you. You love them exactly as they are, and they you. Families are like democracy as Winston Churchill described it: ‘…the worst form of government except for all others.’ They may be the worst, but there’s nothing better than family. So to you and yours, have a Merry Christmas.