The number of dispensaries across Kenya will be doubled, in the biggest effort to improve primary healthcare in Kenya since independence. Currently, Kenya has 5,309 dispensaries, which will be increased by another 4,261, the Ministry of Health said. The announcement comes as the government rolls out universal health coverage today. Dispensaries will play the biggest role in UHC, because they provide primary and promotive health services. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the current number of dispensaries cover 55 per cent of the population. “There are grand plans to establish 4,261 more community health units and recruit a workforce of Community Health Volunteers,” she said. Currently, the existing dispensaries are serviced by 97,335 health personnel. The Star established close to 100,000 new community health volunteers will be hired to support the UHC programme across Kenya. The volunteers will be trained by the national government but will be compensated by the counties. They will serve in their own villagers Already, the four pilot counties - Kisumu, Nyeri, Isiolo and Machakos- have recruited about 7,000 new volunteers, who are undergoing training. CS Kariuki said the right number of volunteers countrywide will be determined after the pilot. "The national and county government’s plan is to empower them with a stipend, a Community Health Volunteer Kit- which contains both basic medical equipment, stationery for data collection and basic preventive and curative drugs," the CS said. President Uhuru will launch the UHC pilot phase today in Kisumu. Read: What services to expect as Universal Health Coverage pilot starts The four-county pilot will cost the national government Sh3.9 billion. The money does not include the already existing resources allocated to health by the four counties. Kariuki recently said in total, Kenya requires about Sh40 billion - over and above the existing resources chanelled to health - to roll out UHC across the country. But the final figure will be informed by experience of the pilot. “The UHC objective is to ensure that Kenyans receive quality promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitation health services without suffering financial hardship,” she said in Nairobi yesterday during a meeting with the national assembly and senate health committees. Machakos was chosen because of the high number of accidents on the Nairobi-Mombasa highway, while Isiolo has a high maternal mortality rate and unique health seeking behavior. Nyeri has a high burden of non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension, while Kisumu has a high prevalence of communicable diseases such as malaria, HIV and TB. The ministry also unveiled the list of UHC benefits Kenyans can expect. The new package covers emergency health services, non-communicable diseases, and mental health. It also covers enhanced access to maternal health, child health services, major infectious diseases and medical and surgical services. The ministry proposed those services be free in level four and five hospitals, for Kenyans who cannot pay. "This builds up on the Presidential directive of 2013 where user fees was removed from Level 2 and 3 services in public health facilities," Kariuki said. "Additionally, a fund for specialised services will be set aside to enable the indigent population in the four counties access specialised services in level 6 facilities," she added recently. See: Kemsa dispatches supplies to counties ahead of UHC launch The CS said the funds for the programme will not be sourced or taken from county government coffers but will come from direct allocation from the Treasury. MoH’s Head of UHC David Gicheru said the pilot will run for six months to one year. “The model we will use at the four counties is the same that will be used in scale up,” Gicheru said. He said noted some of the services are being enhanced but have been there. "Community health services will be key in provision of UHC,” he said. Click here for the latest political news