Migori was in a celebratory mood yesterday after the county produced KCSE’s top student. Another was among the top 10 nationally. Education CS Amina Mohamed pronounced Juliet Otieno the top student with Mel Christine following in position six nationally. The two were together at Christine’s home in Rongo at the time Amina made the announcement. They are friends and neighbours. Migori has seen bad press in recent past with Governor Okoth Obado charged with the murder of his lover Sharon Otieno and remanded for more than a month. Obado was also detained for days after police claimed illegal guns were found in his Nairobi and Migori homes. The Friday results offered a much needed break and something to celebrate. Juliet was a student at Pangani Girls. She scored an A of 87.644 points to emerge the best student. Christine was at Alliance Girls High School. Juliet wants to be an aeronautical engineer while Christine intends to be a cardiovascular doctor. “We were watching the news at home when we heard Juliet’s name called out as the top student. Before the shock wore off, Christine was also read out as number six nationally,” Margaret Okoth said. Margaret is Christine’s mother. Migori town broke into celebration after residents learned the two were from the county. Their parents led in celebrations across Rongo town. Read: [VIDEO] Juliet Otieno of Pangani Girls' tops 2018 KCSE exam “I attribute my success to hard work, I expected to pass but the result is beyond my imagination,” Juliet said. She was accompanied by her father Paul Were and her mother Mary Otieno. The parents said it was the happiest moment of their lives. CHRISTMAS GIFT “She has been bright since primary school where she topped her class thrughout. That she emerged the top student nationally is a blessing,” Were said. Juliet did her KCPE at Rongo Success Academy where director Eliud Kondeyo said she topped her class. Christine also topped her KCPE class at Cape View Academy. “I thank my family for the support. My grandfather and siblings have been instrumental in my success because they always encouraged me,” Christine said. Rongo MP Paul Abuor described the two students as a double blessing to Migori county. “The two girls have offered us the best Christmas gift as a county that has been marred by bad image in the press,” Abuor told the Star on phone. Earlier this week, there were rumours of strange sexually transmitted diseases that was fast spreading in Migori. The county later denied the existence of the STI called Jakadala, saying photos being spread online were those of patients of penile cancer. Click here for the latest political news