When Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and British deputy commissioner Sussie Kitchens sat down recently for a cup of tea, a storm was brewing. Soon, the storm will be felt in everyone's cup if the issue of the leases of thousands of acres of land in the Rift Valley is not handled with care. At the centre of controversy are two things: leases for acres in tea zones have expired or are just about to expire. It is not expressly clear how the renewals of leases will happen. Tea companies are jittery of their future as it becomes clear that locals do not want leases renewed. While government meetings go on, there appears to be no consensus as locals stand their ground. Meeting after meeting appears to have ended in a stalemate with Governor Sang saying the leases will not be renewed and that the land should be reverted to locals. The second issue is lack of a clear line on who between county and the central government has the mandate on management, extension or renewal of leases of the land in contention. National government might be having an upper hand but the locals live in or border the tea estates. Then there is the issue of who between National Land Commission, Ministry of Lands and County Land Board bears full responsibility to renew leases or even transfer property. What happens in this case, when there is conflict between different arms of land administration? Last year, tea accounted for about 40 per cent of Kenya’s marketed agricultural production and contributed 25 per cent of total export earnings. Currently, Kenya is the third largest producer of tea in the world after India and China, but it is the largest global exporter in terms of volume. It is important that given the economic importance of tea plantations, that the matter be handled in the most amicable way. Experiences in other parts of the world have shown that land repossession or reckless talk about land repossession has led to dire economic consequences as investors hold back on investment activities or even flee. When Mugabe ordered land seizures from white farmers in Zimbabwe, the economy collapsed. A similar debate is going on in South Africa and pointers show a similar trend. Land is critical factor of production--but there is also capital and labor for an investment to make sense. Having land and labour and no capital will not solve the problem. Let us look for other ways to sort whatever differences and issues that may be without resorting to the dangerous and reckless land repossession statements. Let us learn from others mistakes and shy away from repeating them. Aron is a researcher. Email aronmaurice3@gmail.com   