Men have been urged to go for screening of cancer and other non-communicable diseases so they can get treatment early enough. Medics from Naivasha Subcounty Hospital yesterday said the number f men seeking cancer screening services has dropped by six per cent over the last one year. They spoke during a free medical camp at Mirera Secondary School in Karagita, Naivasha. The camp was organised by medical students from Mount Kenya University. The doctors said cancer of the breast and prostrate cancer were still the leading cases among women and men respectively. John Gitahi, the officer in charge of reproductive health at the Naivasha Subcounty Hospital, said men have little knowledge on screening services. He said many were still afraid of visiting a health facility to get tested. “Over the last two years, we have seen a trend where men do not volunteer to get screened with the cases dropping from 14 per cent last year and to just eight percent this year,” Gitahi said. Read: Go for early cancer screening - First Lady He said they were working with stakeholders to organise medical camps to take the services to the people. “Although many women are volunteering for screening services, the numbers are still low compared to other areas in Nakuru county," Gitahi said. Susan Wangari, one of the organisers of medical camp, said there was need for early testing of non communicable diseases so that treatment can start without delay. She said the camp was organised in honour of the elderly who walk for long distances to access health services. “We all know the challenges they come across given their age and having grown from this slum, we found it fit to hold a free medical camp for them to get treatment," Wangari said. Nakuru county assembly health committee vice chairman Njuguna Njenga was present. He said MCAs were working with stakeholders to ensure improved access to health services for residents. More: Medic speaks of alarming cancer prevalence in Embu Click here for
the latest political news