Boda Boda operators in Lamu town paid special homage to the recently concluded 18th edition of the Lamu Cultural Festival by halting their services for the entire four-day period of the fete. The highly successful festival ran from Thursday to Sunday in the historical Lamu old town. The old town was listed in 2001 by Unesco as a world heritage site in recognition to its unique cultural value and architecture. However, the old town is now at risk of being delisted due to immense westernisation that has invaded the town. The old town has now been placed on the World Monument Fund Watch List as being under threat from forces of nature and modernity. In 2015, then Lamu Governor Issa Timamy banned automobiles from the old town with intent to maintain its culture and heritage. The ban was also meant to decongest movement on the streets of the old town after it emerged that the automobiles were a major cause of traffic on the streets of the town, which remains a huge tourist attraction. Due to the narrow alleys of the town, movement is only to be done either on foot or using donkeys, which form part of the town’s heritage. However, currently, Lamu town has a population of over 150 motorcycles operating on full-time basis in a business that has been around since August last year, shortly after the general elections. Lamu Boda Boda Association chairperson Mohamed Badi said they decided to leave the road to give guests ample time to enjoy the festival without having to experience the discomfort normally caused when the motorcycles are rushing all over the town. “The festival is meant to showcase heritage and tradition that has stood the test of time, and we know motorbikes are not part of that heritage. We don’t want people to experience the chaos that normally accompanies such a venture. We resume work on Monday next week,” Badi said. Abdalla Omar, a boda boda operator in Lamu town, also said they reached the decision due to the immense human traffic being experienced all over the tiny streets of Lamu town, and that the motorbikes would have only made the situation uglier.  DELISTING THREAT Conservationists are worried about rising trends of westernisation in terms of architecture, dressing and trading. In August, a meeting convened by the county government agreed to minimise and restrict boda boda operations in the town to preserve its culture and heritage, while at the same time allowing the operators to pursue their livelihoods. Tourism executive Dismas Mwasambu said the boda bodas are only be allowed to operate on the outskirts of the old town and not all over, as has previously been the norm. Mwasambu says the new directive is already in force and all those who defy will not just face prosecution but will also have their motorcycles confiscated. The new directive came as a relief for donkeys owners and cart pushers in Lamu town, who are upbeat they will reclaim their lost business. Majority had quit business altogether after they failed to match up to the competition. Omar Kidege, spokesperson of the Lamu Town Cart Pushers’ Association, admitted that business is booming ever since motorcycles were restricted. “We are glad that we have now taken over once again. We never thought this day would come but it has. We had been literally taken out of business. Nobody wanted our services when the boda boda guys were crawling all over but now, the pride has come down and people speak to us with respect and dignity because they have no one else to carry their cargo,” Kidege said.