Owners of public service vehicles have accused Transport CS James Macharia and the National Transport and Safety Authority of defying the presidential decree that stopped the removal of 14-seater matatus from the road. This is after the CS announced the government’s plan to phase out the low-capacity matatus from Nairobi and other major towns by February. Already, NTSA has stopped renewing road service licences (RSL) for the 14-seaters. RSL allows matatus to ply certain routes in the capital. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai told a press conference yesterday that the Ministry and NTSA directive to ban the matatus is a unilateral decision and goes against the President’s order that lifted the ban in 2014. “The presidential decree is binding and cannot be lifted by any other person apart from himself. NTSA and CS Macharia should be serious with us,” Kimutai said. NTSA had through Legal Notice 179 said that all PSVs with less than 25 passengers would be denied RSL. However, Kimutai argued that the notice was overruled by the president’s directive. “In 2014, we agreed with the President and NTSA that no new 14-seaters would be licensed in Nairobi going forward, but the existing ones were supposed to be licensed until such a time that they stall,” he said. The chairman warned that phasing out the matatus without proper consultations and provision of alternative means would plunge the public transport into disarray and subject PSV users to unnecessary agony. Kimutai said that about 40 per cent of all the PSVs countrywide are 14-seaters and therefore banning them from roads would have adverse effects on commuters. The chairman said that up to 50 per cent of matatus in Nairobi are 14-seaters. He said that the owners will also incur huge losses if the government enforces the ban without compensation. “We are talking about employment. Apart from driver and conductor, there are people, at least, who benefit directly from one matatu. All these jobs will be lost,” Kimutai said. Over 20 matatu Saccos last Friday filed a case in court challenging the planned phase-out of 14 seater matatus. Last Friday, CS Macharia said that the government is purchasing high capacity buses and commuter trains with the first batch of 11 trains and 64 high capacity buses arriving in Nairobi by February next year. The government wants to introduce bus rapid transit system to streamline the public transport sector that has been run down by rogue and reckless operators. “The current urban transport system anchored on matatus is neither sustainable nor reliable,” Macharia said. He blamed the 14-seater matatus for the traffic disorder and congestion in major towns.