Second half substitute Sydney Simale came off the bench to hand Kariobangi Sharks a 1-0 win against Gor Mahia in the Kenya Premier League Super Cup staged at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The national Under-23 forward, who replaced Fidel Origa in the 44th, floored Gor’s defence before slotting past custodian, Boniface Oluoch, to give his side the match winning goal in the 54th minute. Gor, who came in the match as defending champions, dominated the first half of the duel but despite playing under pressure, Sharks proved equal to the challenge. Francis Mustafa would have given Gor the lead in the sixth minute after receiving a clean pass from George ‘Blackberry’ Odhiambo but his shot was deflected wide by the defence. Mustafa, who was deployed as the centre half in absence of the injured Jacques Tuyisenge, would have redeemed himself in the 13th minute after a back pass landed in his way but could not put the ball past the line. Gor continued to dominate the game and made more in-roads into Sharks box but the Shield Cup holders remained vigil at the rear and managed to clear all danger balls in their area. Sensing danger, Sharks resorted to physical play in a bid to disrupt Gor’s tempo and this almost paid off in the 45th when Ugandan forward, George Abege, won the ball, raced with it and unleashed a shot which was successfully blocked by Oluoch justy before the break with the scorers at 0-0. Nine minutes after the break, substitute Simale got the match winning goal as he swept past his markers Joash Onyango, Philemon Otieno and Haroun Shakava before plundering the ball past Oluoch. The goal proved the difference between the two sides as Sharks held on till the final minute to win their maiden Super Cup title. Meanwhile, National Super League outfit FC Talanta handed debutants Eldoret Youth a rude welcome as they floored them 3-1 at Camp Toyoyo. Eldoret got off glamorously with Kelvin Cheti giving them the lead in the 14th minute. Cheti tapped in the ball from close range after a miscommunication between the goalkeeper Joel Bataro and Erick Lusala created room for him to reach the ball which sailed past the line. Rodgers Omondi restored parity for Talanta in the 43rd minute before Ronny Katumanga rose high in the 65th minute to head home their second goal. Skipper Michael Muya gave Talanta the third goal in the 80th minute after heading in Emmanuel Mogaka’s corner to seal the three points.