After failing to secure any A in last year’s KCSE examination prompting the education and stakeholders to hold a crisis meeting, Narok seems to have come out of the dust. Two students scored A- and several got B+ in the results that were released on December 21. Edwin Kipng’etich from little-known Oldonyoorok and Jacob Onguti from Masikonde Day secondary school in the outskirts of Narok town both got A-. Last year, only 459 candidates scored the C+ cut off to join university out of 6,482. A total of 12 candidates had B+ last year, with 304 scoring C, 505 with C-, 860 (D+),1,734 (D), 2,251 (D-), bringing the number of those who scored below C+ to 5,012. Dismayed by the poor results with only seven per cent of students making to the university, Governor Samuel Tunai called an urgent meeting with principals, education officials and parents demanding answers. County Education Quality Assurance and Standards official Robert Moseti said the poor grades were alarming and blamed it on a ‘small man’ attitude among teachers and parents which lower the morale of the students. The streak of good performance also saw Narok appear in the top 100 most improved list of candidate. Mercy Kirui from Ngiito Secondary School in Narok West subcounty scored B+ after 294 marks out of 500 in KCPE. Outgoing Ngiito principal Joseah Sigei said, “I am very happy for this girl. She is the best improved girl in the county now.” He said the school is known for transforming students who performed below average in the KCPE exam to stellar performers. Eight years ago, another student from the school - Gladys Chelang’at - scored B in the KCSE exam after getting 191 marks in the KCPE examination. “Once they join Form One, we normally tell them to forget the past and open a new chapter in life and we have seen tremendous improvements,” Sigei said, adding that 35 students from the school will go to public universities. Narok Boys High School also recorded improved performance from a mean score of 3.8 last year to 5.02. This is attributed to the changes in the new management introduced early this year by the Education ministry. Narok Boys High School principal David Kirui swapped places with Isaac Seret, who moved to Koiwa High School in Bomet county. Read: KCSE 2018: Number of As increase Click here for the latest political news