Kimilili member of parliament Didmus Barasa has lashed out at Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe over his recent remarks that Jubilee party does not have any memorandum of understanding with Deputy president William Ruto that he will automatically succeed president uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 polls. Murathe while attending the annual Maragoli cultural festival at Mbale municipal grounds in vihiga County said that Ruto has been sharing a fifty fifty government with Uhuru and Mt Kenya residents are likely to be sidelined in 2022 if Ruto becomes president. He said that central Kenya leaders are looking for an ally in Western to support for country top job in 2022. The event was attended by ANC party leader Mudavadi Musalia, Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang’ula. Devolution Cs Eugene wamalwa, Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati, former Mukurueni Mp Kabando wa Kabando, Cotu boss Francis atwoli and a host of Mps from western region. Speaking to the star in Kimilili town on Thursday Barasa said that Murathe is 'We are all born ignorant, but I am pretty sure Murathe has been working hard to remain stupid going by the oral political diarrhea he has been suffering of late,' he said. 'To bring the country to speed, this ever-drunkard man is nothing but a political con; a busy-body who claims to be the Vice-Chairperson of Jubilee,' he said. Barasa wondered when and who voted for Murathe whom he described as a moron to hold the position of vice chair in Jubilee Party. 'At a time Kenya is enjoying political tranquility, we vehemently refuse as leaders to be herded by a man suffering from paucity of knowledge to oblivion,' he added. Barasa a jubilee party legislature said that as a country we cannot move forward if Murathe consistently ejaculates on our fabric of unity by ever evangelising hate and division in the society. ' This lunatic has no authority to speak on anyone’s behalf, leave alone the Jubilee Party', he said Barasa said that Murathe has no morals to ask the Deputy President to retire in 2022. 'Murathe, you are the same cuckoos who lied to Musalia Mudavadi that he can be a President in 2012. After falling into your trap, Mudavadi, a low-energy politician who is used to low-hanging fruits, came a distant third in the contest', he added. 'As leaders from Western Kenya, we cannot talk of unity when we hire crooks like Murathe to be our spokesperson', he added. Barasa said that Murathe is a vacuous, fatuous, bibulous slacker not worth the company of any sound man.Murathe cannot even qualify to be my dog’s role-model, he said. The first time Mp said that as we head to a new year, 2019, we promise the country our intolerance to political foolishness. 'There is not going to be any space or time allocated to political brokers', he added. Barasa said that Jubilee remains committed to the 10-10 Formula. 'As President Uhuru Kenyatta retires in 2022, Deputy President William Ruto will be succeeding him as President, for a period not less than 10 years. That way, Jubilee’s Development trajectory would remain undisturbed', he said .  