Newly-crowned Valencia Half Marathon champion Matthew Kisorio has candidly revealed how his life took a turn in the wrong direction after being banned for an anti-doping violating in 2012. The 29-year-old claimed that he was the victim of coercion following a visit to a clinical officer in his hometown in Kapsabet. “I know you have forgiven me but I’m still sorry for what I did out of ignorance. I was performing well then and had even represented Kenya and even captained Team Kenya,” Kisorio said. “But a visit to a clinic changed everything. After learning that I was an athlete, the clinical officer asked me what my hemoglobin count was, I didn’t even know what he meant. But he shared with me many things on how I could boost my running. Out of ignorance, I fell for it only to regret later.” He also clarified that his then coach, Claudio Ranieri, had nothing to do with it. “When I was caught, I accepted the responsibility, I served the two-year ban and now I’m actively running again, clean. I faced many challenges when I was sanctioned and many friends deserted me. Many didn’t want to associate with me,” said Kisorio. “My goal now is to one day run a major marathon although there is a dilemma because most race organisers are not ready to accommodate me at the moment because of my doping history.” Meanwhile, 2008 Olympic Games champion Wilfred Bungei has castigated the government over the meagre resources allocated to sports development. Speaking on the second day of the Athletics Kenya athletes’ conference at a Nairobi hotel, Bungei said it is a pity to see the how sports has stagnated due to lack of goodwill from those entrusted with the industry. “It is unfortunate that in this country, we do not invest in sports,” said Bungei. “When the government is making appointments, they always talk of the ‘lean ministry. It is unfortunate that sport is always hidden in some other portfolios and that is why we are concerned for being underrated.” Bungei advocated for individuals who have the passion for sport to be given a chance to manage the various top level offices to ensure nothing more is lost going forward. “We have sportsmen and women who have the knowledge to run sport and should be given a chance,” said Bungei. “When making some of these appointments, let’s have one or two of us advocating for our course.”