A Milimani court yesterday deferred plea taking of a businesswoman accused of obtaining between Sh 50, 000 and 100, 000 from 36 people in fictitious overseas jobs. Gladys Njeri said she is unwell and needed to get medical attention before being charged. Senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku remanded her in prison and ordered she be taken to hospital. Lawyer Danstan Omari who is representing more than 100 people allegedly conned by Njeri said he was not opposed to the plea deferral but the suspect should be taken to a government hospital and medical records tabled in court to ascertain she is ill. Njeri allegedly obtained the cash hoodwinking the complainants that there are companies in Dubai, Qatar, Afghanistan and Canada who have contracted her to recruit drivers, security guards, cleaners and nurses for them. Charge sheets indicate Njeri is facing charges of obtaining money from 36 people by false pretenses. But there were more than 100 people in and outside the court who claimed to have been conned by her. One of the complainants Esther Njenga, is said to have paid Sh 270, 000 for her three relatives who wanted security jobs. Another victim Elizabeth Mbugua allegedly paid Sh 163, 000 to get a nursing job in Canada. Read: Woman denies con charges Njeri is accused of obtaining the cash pretending she was in a position to secure jobs and Visas for the complainants between July and October. The victims paid Sh 5000 as registration fee at her Gladon Agency Limited located at Portal House along Muindi Mbingu street in Nairobi. They also paid additional Sh 5000 for medical check up at the Jubilee Medical Laboratory They would later pay different amounts of up to 160, 000 to secure the jobs. The victims would cough between Sh 10, 000 and 100, 000 for processing of Visas to these countries. The complainants shouted in court that Njeri has multiple passports when Mutuku asked if she had any. Mutuku summoned the officer investigating the matter corporal Charles Liru to explain the status of Njeri's travel documents. Click here for
the latest political news