Depending on when you’re reading this, it’s the last days of the year, or we’re fresh out of 2018 and we’re in the early days of 2019. Either way, it’s that time when most of us are looking back at all the things we were planning on doing and tallying that up against how much of it we actually managed to get done. If you’re anything like me, exceedingly overambitious, then it’s likely that what you did manage to do in 2018 is less than what you had hoped to achieve. It can be disheartening, looking back and seeing everything you didn’t manage to accomplish in a whole year, but that’s because we tend to look at it in two wrong ways. One is, we almost always focus our attention on what we haven’t achieved; dusting off our abacus and adding it all up, and we ignore what we have done, no matter how little it was. Two, we think short-term. One can’t blame us much for this second reason, for we live in a world where everything is instant. From coffee to noodles to news, it’s instant, immediate, now. Unfortunately for us, instant only applies to consumer products and the internet. But with life, nothing worthwhile happens in a matter of weeks. Bear this in mind when I say that it’s probable that whatever resolutions or plans you’ve got in the pipeline for the new year might not be completed a year from now today. But that’s alright, you’ve got your whole life ahead of you. Well, not so much your whole life if you’re over 40, but even then, ‘a lot of life’ ahead is good enough. The point is one should only look back with regret at the things you haven’t done if you’re at the end of your life. Which brings me to the ghosts; Les Brown’s ghosts, to be specific. I should probably explain. Les Brown is a charismatic American motivational speaker. One of his most inspirational talks is about ghosts, and it goes: ‘Imagine, if you will, being on your deathbed and standing around your bed are the ghosts of the dreams, the ideas, the abilities, the talents given to you by life and that you — for whatever reason — never went after that dream; you never acted on those ideas, you never used those talents; you never used those gifts. And there they are, standing around your bed, looking at you with large, angry eyes, saying: “We came to you and only you could have given us life, and now we must die with you forever.” Imagine that. What would you say to those ghosts of your potential? Luckily you don’t have to answer that just yet, even if you’ve done very little up to now, for it’s never too late to start on your dreams and ideas. Ray Kroc is a perfect example of this. A failure for most of his life and not for lack of trying, he was in his 50s when he turned a humble hamburger into McDonald’s, the world’s largest burger chain. Yes, it’s better to have started working earlier on your dreams than later, but then there’s this Chinese proverb: ‘The best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago. The second best time is now.’