The directors of JamboPay, the company that is in the middle of the alleged NHIF scam, wants the High Court to stop the criminal proceedings against them. Danson Muchemi and Robert Muna were charged early this month alongside former National Hospital Insurance Fund boss Geoffrey Mwangi in relation to loss of billions. It is alleged that between August 15, 2014, and October 31, 2018, being directors of WebTribe Ltd, they jointly acquired Sh1.1 billion from the NHIF. The duo want the court to quash the decision by the state to charge and prosecute them, saying it is illegal. On Friday, Justice John Mativo declined to issue ex-parte orders and ruled that he must hear both sides before issuing any orders. He directed them to serve the DPP and the DCI with the petition and appear in court on January 21 for inter-parties hearing. The accused say the decision to charge them with fraudulent acquisition of public property while at the same time obtaining orders compelling them to continue rendering services under the said contractual agreement is a farce, unconstitutional and utter abuse of power and court process. “On December 11, the DPP applied and obtained orders from the court compelling the company to continue rendering services under the same contract for provision of integrated revenue collection services and the ongoing contract for system purchase for provision of an integrated revenue management system,” court documents read. Through lawyer Steve Ogolla, the directors argue that the decision to charge them undermines their right to receive payments for services rendered and for which there exists a valid court order compelling them to continue providing. Ogolla says they were served with the order, which says: “The accused persons are restrained from interfering with the above mentioned system except for the use of benefit of the public.” Muchemi says the order means they were to ensure the firm continues to perform its contractual obligations for which it was entitled to receive payments. Click here for the latest political news