A number of Kenyans are agitating for the removal of MCAs should Kenya go into a referendum to decide on a new form of government. The majority of those proposing the move feel they are over-represented, hence the abolition of such positions would save taxpayers' money. There are currently 1,450 elected Members of County Assembly. There are 772 others who are nominated, bringing the total number to 2,222. A number of county assemblies have been rocked by wrangles pitting MCAs against each other and with House authorities in some instances. The row is rooted in a fight for leadership positions in the House, all happening at the expense of voters' needs for development as fights stall budgetary processes. Other issues cited are leadership feuds, corruption, harassment, assault, impeachment, and misappropriation of the public funds. Nancy, a resident of Kahawa West says that she feels betrayed after she voted for her area MCA. She told the Star of the sorry state of roads in the ward adding that it was more regrettable that the MCA has not made any efforts to legislate for their repair. "MCA wetu tukimpelekea malalamishi hakuna kitu anafanya. Barabara yetu yote ni mbovu kabisa, hata haipitiki kukinyesha," She said. (When we air out our grievances to our MCA, he barely does anything. Our road is in a very poor state and is impassable when it rains). Read: Majority opposed to referendum call - poll  Nairobi Nominated MCA Mary Njambibe became famous in September after she alongside others attempted to evict speaker Beatrice Elachi from her office on September 10. Now popularly known as 'kirimino' - for her cries that the speaker used pepper spray on her, she is presumably the face of the chaos at the city assembly. The speaker, who was impeached on grounds of abuse of office, gross misconduct and conflict of interest, is yet to resume office despite the court reinstating her. MCAs endorsed Chege Mwaura as acting speaker but Elachi is waiting on the court verdict of an application she filed to stop her removal. Read: [VIDEO] Toka nje! Drama at City Hall as MCAs evict Elachi  Homa Bay Hosting 60 MCAs,  Homa Bay has been in the headlines for the wrong reasons because of its MCAs who have fought in the assembly on a number of occasions in 2018. The wrangles started after speaker Elizabeth Ayoo failed to recognise a new team led by current majority leader Walter Dada. Chief whip Richard Ogindo and his team were kicked out, sparking chaos in the county legislative arm to the detriment of locals. They were so intense that it caught the attention of ODM boss Raila Odinga who had to intervene. However, the MCAs warned the party to stop interfering with the assembly’s activities. The fracas led to two journalists being hurt. Ayoo is accused of poor leadership, mismanagement of resources, incompetency, failure to meet the integrity, transparency and accountability tests. She was impeached but later reinstated by the court. On November 29, her office was broken into and sprayed with chemicals. Seven MCAs were later arrested and detained for four days for swearing in Evans Marieba as the acting speaker. Read: Handshake deal ends Homa Bay assembly wrangles  Kisumu Kisumu county assembly experienced two chaotic incidents this year. First, MCAs clashed over an attempt to impeach Governor Anyang Nyong’o in June. Majority leader Kenneth Odhiambo claimed that some MCAs had hired youths who accosted him at the county government offices. He said the youths claimed there was a notice of motion prepared in the house to impeach Nyong'o. In October, there were shootings in the assembly premises over a chaotic attempt to impeach speaker Onyango Oloo. Some MCAs accused Oloo of mismanaging the assembly. See: [VIDEO] Kisumu MCAs in fist fight after rumours of plot to impeach Nyong'o  Nyandarua Chaos erupted in the Nyandarua county assembly in October when Majority Leader Kamau Gathungu attempted to hold on to the position against the will of agitated members who had removed him. The MCAs accused speaker Wahome Ndegwa of bias for failing to recognise the new house leadership. Ndegwa said Gathungu’s removal was illegal. They wanted Gathungu replaced by Wambugu King’ori. Ndegwa was forced to adjourn sittings. The following month, the MCAs blocked Ndegwa from accessing the chambers after swearing in Kaimbaga MCA Gabriel Gathure in acting capacity. Read: Nyandarua MCAs swear in new speaker during assembly drama  Murang'a Blows, kicks and fist fights were what dominated in the Murag'a county assembly as they fought for leadership positions. Fracas began when a section of MCAs led by deputy speaker Samuel Kihurunjo attempted to evict the county assembly clerk. They accused Chris Kinyanjui of flouting tendering procedures by procuring substandard sports kits and uniforms. It took the intervention of the police to calm down the legislators. Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria on January 5, condemning the row asked DPP Noordin Haji to prosecute the MCAs. He said such violence was a disgrace and the physical fights could lead to some deaths Read:[VIDEO] Murang'a MCAs fight for the third time as leadership row deepens  Special committee formed to resolve wrangles among MCAs The County Assemblies Forum in October formed a special committee to look into wrangles among MCAs in various counties. The forum’s secretary general Eric Mwangi told the Star that the forum is looking into the cases of infighting at county assemblies. The Members Service Committee is tasked with fostering peace and harmony among MCAs. Other country assemblies that have had chaos are Kakamega,Bungoma, Taita Taveta, Busia,Nyamira, Migori and Wajir. Read: Committee to resolve wrangles among MCAs