Youthful lawmakers will fully support expansion of the executive to achieve lasting cohesion, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. He blamed the current presidential system for the perennial violence erupting after every election. Savula said they support the proposal to have a referendum on the Constitution. “Unless we do this, there will be no country soon because of election-related violence that engulfs the country after elections,” he said on Friday during a graduation ceremony at the Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology. Savula accused leaders he did not name of opposing the idea. He called them selfish, saying they are not interested in the well-being of all Kenyans. “We have had eight years under the new document [Constitution] and we now know where the problem is. We must fix it or else we shall be judged harshly for presiding over destruction of the country,” he said. During his tour of Nyanza last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta gave the clearest hint that the country could be headed for a referendum to scrap what he termed a destructive “winner-take-all” system of government. Uhuru said the current presidential system unfairly excludes some communities from leadership and hampers unity. The President said there was need for an accommodative system to prevent bitterness that triggers post-election violence. Savula said the creation of the post of Prime Minister and two deputies following the 2007 disputed presidential results brought about peace in the country. Opposition leader Raila Odinga, who was the ODM presidential candidate, became the PM, with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Uhuru as deputies. In the run-up to the mediation that resulted in the Grand Coalition government, some 1,300 people were killed and hundreds of thousands displaced. Even though Kenyans overwhelmingly passed the Constitution in 2010 and were excited about devolution, they have identified problems in the document, Savula said. The task force on the Building Bridges Initiative has been collecting public views on issues that bedevil the country and how Kenyans want them fixed. The team was formed by Uhuru and Raila. It is also focussing on how to tackle corruption as part of its nine-point agenda. “The task force is convinced that combating corruption will entail the creation of conditions for individual citizens, groups and communities to set the cultural and social conditions that uphold integrity, honour and constitutional values,” secretariat heads Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi said in a statement in July. The team promised that its final report will not be influenced by politics and will only be based on public input. “Politics has not affected us in anyway. We don’t view any of the players in political fields to be relevant to what we’re doing,” Mwangi said.