Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny says parastatal chiefs from the Kalenjin community linked to graft should carry their own cross. The MP said the war on graft should not be linked to 2022 politics or claims that it was being used to undermine Deputy President William Ruto. He dismissed as baseless claims that allies of DP Ruto from the Kalenjin community were being targeted in the war on graft. He said the NCPB was in problems that had affected farmers yet it was headed mostly by people from Rift Valley. "The farmers who are suffering are also Kalenjins and yet some of these leaders are not coming out to speak for the farmers yet they are loud in defending individuals," Kuttuny said. He was speaking in Cheranganyi. He said individuals from the community implicated in graft should not drag the community into their problems. "They steal resources from Kenyans and use it on their own. They never invite Kalenjins to get a share of the stolen resources," Kuttuny said. He said institutions fighting graft had been releasing long lists of suspects including people from all communities and those from Rift Valley should not consider themselves special. Read: SANG: Are Kalenjin CEOs corrupt or just victims of circumstances? "We urge the DCI and DPP Noordin Haji to tighten the noose on anyone linked to corruption without relenting," Kuttuny he said. A section of Rift Valley leaders including Senator Samson Cherargei and Aldai MP Cornel have claimed that the war on graft was targeted at people from the region to undermine Ruto. "We know it's Ruto they are targeting because of 2022 elections", Cherargei said. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and Moiben MP Sila Tiren have said they also fully back the war on graft. Kuttuny, Keter and Tiren caused a storm last month when they demanded that DP Ruto should be probed over the maize and fertiliser scandals. "Those who fear investigations have something to hide and that is their own problem. Let them pay for their own sins," Kuttuny said. Click here for the latest political news