The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority has been accused of delaying supply of drugs to counties, causing acute shortages in hospitals. Elgeyo Marakwet deputy governor Wesley Rotich said the agency took four months to deliver drugs to the region, which should have been supplied by last August. He said the delays have caused suffering to many residents especially those who depend on public hospitals in rural areas. “We urge KEMSA to be releasing the drugs on time because the delay affects service delivery. The supplies are supposed to be stocked in our health facilities all the time,” Rotich said. He said his county had no pending payments with Kemsa “I hope things will improve going forward. We care for our people and one way of justifying this is to give them the best healthcare,” he said. The county has distributed medical supplies worth Sh52 million. The delivery of the consignment is a relief to the county residents as some of the health facilities in the county had been hit by drugs shortages. Rotich spoke at the Governor’s office in Iten while flagging off the consignment of drugs to hospitals in the region. The drugs will last until March next year, he said. County Health executive Kiprono Chepkok said Elgeyo Marakwet is focussing on prevention of communicable diseases through regular screening. His department will carry out medical camps across to educate residents on the importance of maintaining a healthy lifestyle, Chepkok said. “All our health facilities will be fully stocked with adequate drugs from today. I urge everyone not feeling well to visit any nearby facility because the drugs are already there,” he said. The executive promised snake bite prone areas of the Kerio Valley of adequate anti-venom drugs. The county government of Elgeyo Marakwet is in the process of automating its health facilities in its efforts to standardise delivery of health services. Governor Alex Tolgos said with the automation, the hospital management will be able to track distribution of drugs, enable residents to know the drugs in stock in addition to tracking the time taken in a health facility. Tolgos noted that availability of drugs and time taken in hospitals is key in the delivery of health services.