Criminal gangs in Mombasa’s Kisauni area have morphed into dangerous killers who no longer just steal from their victims. The gangs initially hit, maimed and stole from their victims. Not anymore. The killing of former Kilifi deputy governor Kennedy Kamto on Wednesday is the latest attack by the gang. Kamto was killed in a dawn attack at his home along Beach Road in Nyali. Actual figures of victims remain unknown by human rights groups say 15 people have been killed over the last month. Ten other victims are admitted to the Coast General Hospital with various injuries. Some are in ICU. Kamto was murdered by three hooded gunmen. His widow, Fauzia, said he was shot in the sitting room as the family watched. Kamto’s mother and the househelp were present. Fauzia said the attackers jumped over their locked gate and forced their way into the house. They ordered everyone downstairs to the living room where Kamto was shot. The killers went away with Sh6,000, Fauzia’s phone and other personal belongings. “I called the police immediately but they said he was already dead when they arrived,” Fauzia said. Kamto’s home is about a kilometre from Nyali police station. During Jamhuri Day celebrations in Mombasa on Wednesday, leader decried the worsening insecurity in the region. County commissioner Evans Achoki promised the killers will be arrested. Achoki said three new police posts have been set up in Kadongo, Konkodia and Mwatamba to enhance security. “We have great plans for Kisauni, no incident will be witnessed. Let them know they will not run anywhere. We will catch up with them,” Achoki said. Kisauni, an area of about four square kilometres with a population of 194,065, is the most dreaded by security agencies. That fear has allowed criminal gangs to thrive. Victims are often hacked with machetes. Sometimes, bodies of those shot dead are left on the streets. Hotspots include Utange, Mishomoroni, Kadzandani, Kwa-palestina, Kiembeni, Junda, Shanzu, Mtopanga, Bamburi, Vikwatani, Magodoroni, Mafisini, Kwa Bulo, Kadongo, Kachororoni, Bondeni and Matingasi. Muslims for Human Rights response officer Francis Auma said police must devise new tactics to tackle the gangs. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said police should deal with criminals. He blamed drugs, unemployment and bad leadership for the atrocities. Governor Hassan Joho said the insecurity challenge dates back to his days as Kiasuni MP. “I talked to locals and told them that they had a responsibility. We are the ones hiding these criminals. Citizens should report them,” Joho said. He said a campaign dubbed “I Must Get Involved” will be launched to sensitise residents. He said he will convene a security meeting on Monday focusing of community policing. Achoki urged residents to cooperate with the police. He said children who don’t go to school had contributed to the increase in crime. “Next year, we are going arrest children who don’t go to school. We shall also arrest their parents,” Achoki said. Police and human rights groups have identified Akili za Usiku, 64 Gang, Memory Gang, Watalia Gang, Crazy Boys, Kongo by Force, Wajukuu Wa Bibi, Mawayo, Spiders and Chafu as some of the criminal groupings. There is also an all-women gang known as Wakware Babies. Others are 40 thieves, Yakuza, Ondafa Tuletule, Wayoo, Bidii Kweli, Baoboa, Nyuma cha Moto, Tupwa Tupwa, Gaza, Spanish Spatter, Vietnam, Temeke, Yaung Tags, Getto Youth, Watalia and Wajukuu wa Mbwa. The motives of their attacks remain unclear. While some gangs attack to steal valuables, others attack for mere bravado. Last week, Achoki announced a manhunt for three most wanted ringleaders of the gangs. On Wednesday, police arrested one of the most wanted ringleaders, but they were yet to brief reporters. Residents told the Star the gangs are well known by security agencies. “We are surprised that whenever they get arrested, we see them back on the streets after a week,” a bodaboda rider said. Asked why police have failed to arrest the rising insecurity and growth of criminal gangs, Kisauni deputy county commissioner Kipchumba Ruto said the thugs retreat to narrow streets and areas where police find difficulty in accessing. “It’s an issue of poor planning,” Ruto said. He said more police sectors headed by an inspector, have been created to curb rising crime rates. wOn December 8, two gangs hacked to death three Kadzandani residents. On November 29, a gang suspected to have killed 15 people, murdered a port employee outside a wine shop in Bamburi. On November 5, a gang in police uniform attacked residents of Soweto area and killed one and left many injured. Residents said four people were also killed in similar attacks in Kisauni in October. Some of the attacks have been carried out in broad daylight unlike in the past where the gangs attacked after dusk. On April 12, police banned a night wedding after a series of attacks in Frere Town area by an all-female gang. An undercover officer was stabbed to death by members of a gang he was pursuing in Magodoroni on June 12. On September 11, a gang of four killed a resident and left two others with deep cuts on the head in Mtopanga. Mohamed Mwatsau, 47, a member of Kisauni security committee was slashed to death by masked gang criminals as he took a rest outside his house in Barsheba. His killing was seeen as a revenge attack against those perceived to be exposing the gangs to police. On the same day, Maitha Omar, 21, was shot dead by people in police attire at his home in Mtongwe. On Tuesday, police arrested 10 suspects in a raid at houses of suspected gang leaders and their accomplices in Kadzandani. In September, police killed five people they said were gang members while a mob lynched three others on suspicion of belonging to criminal gangs.