“Try Finland,” she says. This is the lady at the post office who was being super helpful last week, when I was trying to send Santa Claus a letter. “Finland?” I asked. “Yes, that’s his main post office,” she said and wrote down an address for me. I paid her and got a receipt. “Does he get many letters a year?” I asked. “Around 17 million,’ she said. Wow! That Santa sure is popular. I left the post office and ran the rest of my errands, forgetting about the white-bearded man and the letter I sent him. If he has an official post office, the least they could do is send back a card or something. A few days later, we were having our annual Christmas office party. The theme was the swinging 60s, and everyone had to come dressed in something from that era. I got dressed up in a mini skirt and some cute wedges. I even found a handmade, vintage Jackie O type hat. When I got to the party, it was well under way.  I made my way to the bar and ordered a drink. We were headed to the speeches part of the evening, and I wanted to be well and truly toasted before that started. The CEO spoke of how the year had been a struggle with the economy not doing so well, blah blah blah. Readership and therefore circulation was down, advertisers were not spending as much and next year we would need to tighten our belts. However, bonuses would still be given because despite the lean times, we were still the number-one selling magazine in Kenya for the fifth year in a row. There was a splatter of applause that progressively got bigger and louder as Santa Claus came into the room and started handing out gifts to everyone. Wait. Who arranged for a Santa Claus? Expenses like those usually come through my desk. I took a swig of my drink and turned back to the bar and ordered another one. “Easy there, it’s still early,” a man with a deep growl said behind me. I turned around and there he was … Santa Claus. Tall, eyes glinting, beautiful smile and a ridiculously huge girth. “Is that all you or padding?” I asked as I lightly punched his red costume. “You want to find out?” he asked playfully. “Yes,” I responded with no hesitation. This is what I wanted for Christmas, right? A night with Santa and here he was. “You got my letter?” I asked only half serious. “Yes, why do you think I’m here?” he responded, removing a blue package from his bag and handing it to a guy from sales who was walking by. “Follow me,” I say, grabbing my drink and heading towards my office. I don’t know who hired him but thank heavens! Santa follows instructions, lugging his sack of presents behind him. I lock the door and waste no time. I start to kiss him, loving the way his beard tickles my lips. I wonder what it will feel like, down there? It’s almost as though he can read my mind and slides my panties off and lays me flat across the desk. The beard across my secret garden is just as I imagined it. My hips arch and he grabs my ass. I can’t believe how absolutely hot this is making me. I spread my legs wider and let him devour me. He pauses and turns me around. I’m on all fours and he shoves his face, beard and all, into my backside. Santa is eating me out, back and front!