A lot of attention has been paid to the
issue in the Kenyan Parliament regarding how to satisfy the two-thirds gender
rule in our electoral system and generally in our political economy. With regard to elections, it has been
proposed that women be nominated to fill the gap currently created by methods
so far used.  This proposal has been opposed by
predominantly male voices, most of them arguing that Parliament would be too
big, if more numbers, male or female, were added through nomination. This
school of thought seems to be inclined more to the idea that women should
not swell the size of parliament through the nomination route. How about if
women were to be elected to Parliament, what would be their stand?  I want to pursue this thesis to its
logical conclusion by revisiting the colonial government electoral practice,
where there were "reserved seats". These seats were then reserved to
certain racial groups to elect men and women of their kind in these
"reserved constituencies". For example, what we currently call
"woman reps" elected at the county level are essentially replicas of
"reserved seats" of the colonial type.  What stops us, therefore, from deciding
that Parliament will consist of 180 members, one third of which will come from
reserved seats for women at the county or even subcounty levels? This is not
to say women will be prohibited from contesting other seats at their own
will as they are doing at the moment. This is simply a mechanism to ensure the
current constitutional requirement is met.  It must, however, be emphasized that this
is simply a transitory remedial measure. In the long run, we need to promote a
culture whereby the principle of gender equality becomes a lived experience in
our daily lives. For example, it is very encouraging to find out that at the
School of Law at the University of Nairobi, the number of male students is no
longer superior to that of females. Similarly, the top performing students in
KCPE examinations from year to year has demonstrated that girls can rise to the
top in good numbers, and very soon they may easily overtake the boys.  But the girl and the boy still face many
hurdles in our education system from the ECD upwards. These hurdles are to do
with basic values in our education system. Must our education system be based
on competition or should it be based largely on what we at Alliance High School
call "developing a student who is strong in mind, body and character"? Examinations should then follow not for
the purpose of ranking students along a staircase of marks but for pointing to
each individual student where their strengths and weaknesses are in various
subjects. Were this to be followed and done consistently, maybe the
inequalities between the sexes that finally emerge in the electoral process
would not be there.  I was actually very pleased when I heard
President Uhuru Kenyatta say that all students who sat for the KCPE would
proceed to secondary schools. This is as it should be. Basic education cannot
possibly end at Standard Eight. What on earth could a 13-year-old do with a
primary school certificate in this day and age?  I believe those who finish Form Four have
the option of either going to university or joining a vocational training
centre to prepare them practically for self-employment or being employed in the
industry or elsewhere. Very often, one will find that the girl or woman
graduate of a polytechnic or vocational training centre will be as competitive
in the job or business market as her male counterparts. Girls only do badly
when male chauvinism among employers creates roadblocks on their way. In the
end, it is such roadblocks that also perform some "early biased
selection" of who is more likely to go into public life between the two
genders.  So this issue of women representation is
not a simple matter. It has its sinews in our society over a long
historical period, which we need to be conscious of. Having done that then, we
need to reengineer our minds and public policies and practices to progressively
improve gender relations and practices in our society.  In the end, however, human
etiquette has always dictated that men should and must always be the
chivalrous of the two sexes. When walking on a narrow path and a woman is
struggling to get ahead it is only decent for the man "to make way for the
fairer sex". If a woman is struggling to put a heavy hand luggage into the
luggage rack on the plane, it is only fair for the man to help her lift the
rather heavy load, even if it is relatively light as far as the man is
concerned. So, I find it extremely arrogant,
insensitive and base for anybody to aver that were women to be nominated to
parliament they would "get such favours" after they themselves will
have "surrendered themselves" to some political bosses. I thought it
is our obligation as men always to be on the look out to uplift our women and
not to exploit them in such obviously very callous manner. Agreed. In Friedrich Engels famous book, The Origin of the Family, Private Property
and the State, there is clearly a convincing sociological and political
economy argument that women have always been the underdog in the historical
development of what we now see as capitalist or market economies. Agreed. In
modern times progressive and revolutionary movements, including women's
movements, have waged very successful struggles to overturn this underdog
existence so that the principle of universal equality of human kind is
realised in the contemporary world. It is no wonder that in societies where
social democracy has been prevalent such as in the Scandinavian countries, the
principle of the universal equality of human kind has been exceptionally
advanced. One does not, therefore, take it as a surprise when three quarters of
Norwegian MPs are women. Kenyans, on the other hand, are still scratching their
heads wondering how to get at least one-third the number of women in Parliament!
The fundamental problem here is not really our electoral system but the
political ethos that informs this system. And from whence cometh this ethos? It
comes from our underdeveloped social, economic and political system in which
social inequalities are easily reinforced by gender inequalities. As a demonstration of this, just think of
the ignominy ordinary Kenyans, particularly women and children, currently
suffer at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. Just about two months ago, Kenya Airways managers,
no doubt with the full backing of the government of Kenya, decided to launch
a  daily flight to New York. A wonderful idea. But as a condition of launching
this flight, security arrangements at the airport has to be changed
drastically. One of the changes undertaken was to
prohibit vehicles from dropping or picking passengers at all the four terminals
in Unit One. What does this mean? It means when it rains, passengers and those
seeing them off or welcoming them have to walk several yards howling luggage to
or from the terminals. Women and their children have to struggle across the
driveway to get into the terminal. I am sure those who came up with these
cruel "security measures" knew the consequences of walking from the
parking lot to the terminals would never affect them. I am sure they never even
thought of the inconvenience they were bound to cause to our women and
children, particularly when it rains. Their concern was simply to satisfy
"the security demands" so that KQ can make money for its shareholders
by flying to New York. That is the tyranny of capitalism for you: A tyranny
that breeds such inequalities and unequal sufferings we have to deal with as we
seek to reform the way we are governed, move, live and have our being.     