Hanna Tetteh, the director general of the United Nations office in Nairobi, is headed to the African Union just seven months after arriving in Kenya. UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric in a briefing said Secretary-General António Guterres had on Monday announced the appointment of Tetteh as his Special Representative to the AU and Head of the United Nations Office to the African Union. The Ghanaian will succeed Ethiopia's President Sahle-Work Zewde, whom Tetteh incidentally succeeded at UNON this year. Responding to UNOAU tweet communicating the appointment, Tetteh said: "I look forward to working with you". Joyce Msuya, the acting UN Environment executive director said: "Congratulations Hanna Tetteh on your appointment as Special Representative to the African Union. We have only worked together briefly but it has been so inspiring. Thank you for your friendship." Msuya, a Tanzanian, was appointed to head the United Nations Environment Programme following the resignation of its executive director Erik Solheim on claims of mismanagement of funds. Read: UN’s Environment chief Erik Solheim resigns over frequent travelling In October, Ethiopia's Parliament has unanimously named Zewde as the country's first woman President. During the second Special Joint Session of Ethiopia's two houses of parliament - the House of Peoples' Representatives and the House of the Federation - lawmakers picked the career diplomat for the largely ceremonial role, just months after arriving in Addis Ababa in June. The UN Spokesperson said,"Tetteh brings to this position decades of progressively responsible experience at the national, regional and international levels, including well-honed skills in building consensus among stakeholders and knowledge of the Organisation, in order to strengthen the partnership between the United Nations and the African Union in the area of peace and security." Tetteh served previously in Ghana's Cabinet as Minister for Foreign Affairs and a member of the National Security Council and the Armed Forces Council (2013-17), and Minister for Trade and Industry (2009-13). She was the chairperson of the Council of Ministers and head of the Mediation andSecurity Council of the Economic Community of West African States from 2014-15. During her term as Minister for Trade and Industry, she was also a member of the Government’s economic management team, the board of the Millennium Development Authority and the National Development Planning Commission. She was also the chairperson of the Ghana Free Zones Board. From January to February 2009 she served as Spokesperson for President John Evans Atta Mills’ administration transition team. Tetteh is a lawyer by profession and was admitted to Ghana Bar in October 1992. Click here for the latest political news 