A court in Eldoret has granted prominent politician cum farmer Jackson Kibor, 86, another divorce from his third wife Naomi Jeptoo. The latest ruling comes barely a year after Kibor divorced his second wife Josephine. Eldoret Principal Magistrate Naomi Wairimu granted Kibor divorce from Naomi after the old politician cited cruelty, unruly behaviour and lack of affection among others in his application for divorce. "She has really frustrated me and teamed up with her children to even beat me at times. Am happy with the court ruling and I will even get fat", Kibor said after the ruling. Kibor had been married to the third wife for more than 43 years and 52 years with the second wife who he divorced in 2017. Wairimu said in her ruling that the marriage had irretrievably broken down. She said the court having considered submissions by the plaintiff and defendant and evidence on record cannot keep the parties together. Read; Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine Kibor had four wives one of whom is deceased. "I will not marry another wife because am contented with my fourth wife Eunita," said Kibor. Eunita is aged 36. He said the court case and frustrations from his third wife had caused him poor health but he would now eat well, relax and live longer. "My body had has really grown thin but now I will regain and live longer," he said. Wairimu said Kibor had proved his case before the court. “By keeping them together in the circumstances, is to play with legal form in a manner that is completely contrary to the needs of real life and such false unity could only serve to further oppress the plaintiff which is not rewarding relationship,” ruled Wairimu. More on case: Kibor 'fed up' with divorce case, accuses second wife of delay tactics Aslo read: Jackson Kibor, 86, weds new lover Yunita as he pushes to divorce 2nd wife Josephine She said cruelty was a major issue in the divorce case filed by Kibor. Kibor had claimed in court papers that his wife had been hostile and intolerant to the extent that their marriage could not be salvaged. He also told the court that the defendant and her sons have threatened to kill him and even put a gate and denied him the key at their home in Kebenes village in Soy constituency of Uasin Gishu County in a bid to bar him from accessing his home. While objecting to the divorce, Jeptoo said that contrary to her husband’s claim she said he was welcomed to their home at any time. She told the court that she does not recall when her husband last went to their home where she lives with their children and that she is not aware of any dispute between him and the sons. On the ground of cruelty, Jeptoo submitted that the evidence adduced by her husband does not portray any cruelty since he has done nothing to constitute cruelty to him. “Claims that our sons attempted to kill him cannot be enough grounds for Kibor to seek divorce since the sons are adults who are responsible for their own conduct. Also read: Kibor seeks to divorce third wife, cites mental and physical torture Read: Drama in Eldoret court as Jackson Kibor's wife wails to save their 51 year marriage Click here for the latest political news 