Lack of age-grade structures and financial resources are hampering the game of rugby in the country. For the sixth time in history, Kenya failed to qualify for the sport’s biggest prize, the rugby World Cup, after losing in the repechage last month in Marseille. The side had gone close in the 2014 after a three-month stint in South Africa, but it fell at the final hurdle to Zimbabwe to miss out on the global show. Speaking recently, veteran coach and former player Michel “Tank” Otieno said Kenyan rugby has to go the long route of development if they harbour any ambitions of qualification to the rugby World Cup. “To qualify for the World Cup you need an eight-year plan. Without that, it’s impossible to qualify for the event,” he said. Otieno said rugby needs to be played at primary school and have a development pathway for players from age six to 14. “We need to see rugby being played at primary school level. You can’t wait for players to start playing at high school; it’s too late, when you compare with what other countries are doing,” he said. Otieno said the technical setup needs specialist coaches like defence, attack, kicking, scrum coaches. It alsno needs support staff nutrition and psychologists. “The game these days is being analysed in all facets of play, so we need to bring that on board if we are to make inroads against some of the top teams. But it’s a process and it will take time,” he said. Otieno said the quality of rugby players coming through to universities from high school is wanting. “We have to teach them the basics all over again,” he said. He lamented a lack of quality coaching at age-grade level. “The game has spread, yes, but where are the coaches who are coaching the kids at this level? Because if you get it wrong at that level, it means you have to start from scratch all over again, in terms of the basics of the game,” he said. LACK OF FUNDING Otieno’s structure and set-up requires resources and investment. However, the Kenya Rugby Union has had a torrid financial year, with no sponsors and very little government support. Chairman Richard Omwela said they would like to fund several age-grade projects but there are financial constraints. “We have had a difficult year in terms of sponsorship, and maybe until the Sports Fund is operationalised, it will be tough,” he said. “We have Kenya Sevens, Kenya 15s, Kenya under 20 and Kenya Lionesses to fund. So the money we receive had to be divided by all the teams, and in the end, it leaves you with nothing,” Omwela said. Omwela said they had a budget of Sh300 million but only received Sh70 million to fund all national squads, which is inadequate. Omwela hoped 2019 would be a better year in terms of sponsorships to grow the game. “We have had a difficult year, but we hope the New Year brings good tidings and we can tie one or two sponsors,” he said. Omwela said the game is in good health, with the sport being played in several parts of he country. “I would say it’s a now national sport, but there are areas of improvement in terms of coaching and getting development centres up and running to enable players to be fast-tracked in the national teams, be it 15 or sevens.” HIGHS AND LOWS Kenya sevens attained its highest-ever points total of 104 points in the 2017-18 season. The squad coached by Innocent Simiyu reached two cup finals in Vancouver and Hong, losing 31-12 and 24-12 to Fiji. Despite a solid season, drama followed the side as the players protested delayed allowances. This resulted in the players putting masking tape on the front of the jersey at the Paris Sevens. Tourism CS Najib Balala subsequently cancelled the sponsorship with Brand Kenya, only for it to be rescinded a fortnight later. The turbulence in the side saw the side post a poor performance in the Rugby World Cup, where they bowed out after winning one match against Tonga 19-7 and losing 31-26 to Scotland, Ireland 24-14, Samoa 19-17 and Japan 26-14. Shujaa had reached the semi-finals in the last two World Cup campaigns in Dubai and Russia, and the performance was a low point in what was a stellar campaign by the side. Kenya Lionesses bagged the Africa Sevens crown by beating Uganda 29-7, winning their maiden trophy. Kevin Wambua’s charges also beat nemesis South Africa twice this year during the world sevens series qualifiers. On the 15s front, Kenya Commercial Bank bagged their sixth Kenya Cup crown, beating fierce rivals Kabras 29-24 in the final to win the title with an unbeaten record. It was their third title in four years, cementing their tag as the team to beat this season. Homeboyz captured their first 15s crown after beating Impala Saracens 20-3 to win the Enterprise Cup. The deejays bagged the national sevens crown for the second time in three years after winning four of the six tournaments on offer.