Akothee's daughter Celly Rue Brown, alias Rue Baby, is not going to date soon because she fears her mother. Speaking to Massawe on Radio Jambo yesterday, the 20-year-old said: "I don't know how she would react when she realises I am dating." Even though she showed some interest in Kibaki's grandson, Rue said she has never dated. "That was just crushing and I moved on. I am not seeing anyone at the moment because I think in my state, it is not easy to find a man who is genuine because most men want to be associated with my mum's wealth," she said. "I have never been in a serious relationship because I fear my mum, who still thinks that we are young and she does not want us to follow her path of getting children at an early age, as she did." Akothee is known for her dramatic life on social media, where she does not tolerate anyone who tries to troll her. Growing up under a disciplinarian was not easy, Rue said. "My mum was very rough and wanted us to be so disciplined. We did not start at the peak and we were hustlers from scratch, and she (Akothee) taught us to respect people," she said. "There was a time I even disagreed with her because I felt that she was discriminating us by favouring some of us. Like for me, I needed her attention, which she was not giving to me." Rue said her mother did not want her children to be in public. So how does Rue handle trolls? "If we feel affected by trolls on social media, we tell our mother and she handles that. I have been trolled a thousand times but I talk to my mum," she said. "The worst troll that affected me was when people said I was walking naked because I was in a short. It affected me for a whole week." Rue says she does not want her mother to get more children. "I feel we are so many and we all need her attention," she said. Rue Baby has won several awards, including the Face of Nivea modelling competition, to become Nivea’s ambassador for the year 2017-18, best model at the Diaspora Entertainment Awards, and Recognition (Dear) 2018 edition.