President Uhuru Kenyatta will on Friday visit Jaramogi Oginga Odinga home in Bondo to pay tribute to the late Fidel Odinga. EALA MP Oburu Oginga said the president will visit the home, known as Kang'o ka Jaramogi, after attending a graduation ceremony at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology. Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga will be conferred with honorary degrees at the graduation ceremony. Oburu, who is Jaramogi's eldest son, said it will be the "second time Uhuru is seeking a blessing from Jaramogi". The MP said the first time Uhuru visited Jaramogi’s resting place was when he was the Gatundu MP. "I had invited him for a harambee at Nyamira Girls’ High School, a few metres from our rural home when he decided to pass by for the blessing before he scooped the presidency seat in 2013," Oburu said. He said the visit will cement ties the two families have had over the years before politics sparked divisions between them. Oburu said he recalls how his father shed tears when he received news of the demise of former President Jomo Kenyatta's death. He said Uhuru's visit is not political, but purely due to the long-term friendship between the Odinga and Kenyatta families. "Jomo Kenyatta used to visit our place frequently as he was a great friend of my father. We are happy that President Kenyatta is also visiting when he is the President,” Oburu said. He welcomed the President to Nyanza and specifically to Jaramogi’s rural home. Read: Uhuru's historic Nyanza tour starts Siaya county commissioner Michael Ole Tialal assured the security and safety of all those who will turn up to welcome Uhuru in Bondo. "We will have several security roadblocks to control the traffic, bearing in mind that parents and graduates will be flocking to Jaramogi University for the graduation," he said. Uhuru is expected at JOOST by 9am. Vice chancellor Stephen Agong’ said Uhuru will preside over the graduation of more than 2,000 students. He will also open the modern science lab after planting a tree at the institution. Governors from Kisumu, Siaya, Nyamira and Kisii are expected. Click here for the latest political news