Molo Earth Market has joined other towns including Karen that have opened up organic food markets in the country. The earth markets are aimed at fighting for good, clean and fair food for all. According to the recently released Global Hunger Index 2018, for every three Kenyans, one is grappling with severe food insecurity and poor nutrition. Samson Kiiru, Slow Food Kenya Coordinator in Nakuru County said the decision to start an earth market is based on the need to make high-quality fresh products available, revive local food traditions, and bring food producers and consumers together. “Consuming local, fresh, and nutritional food is an important tool to fight malnutrition and poverty. The Earth Market is a win-win situation for consumers and producers, since the project aims also to strengthen the local economy,” said Kiiru. Market access remains one of the biggest challenges facing small-scale farmers in Molo and throughout the whole country. But thanks to Slow Food network, small-scale farmers and producers in Molo have access to a market, which also supports farmers who still produce food according to the good, clean and fair philosophy. He explained that the market will involves many different producers from more than 30 communities including the Ogiek, Karirikania, Lare, Kihoto, and Kangawa, the Herbs Growers group (Gilgil community), an organic pesticide producer (Salome Njeri), organic juice makers (Kenyatta community), traditional seeds savers (Makongo community), the Network for Eco-farming in Africa and the Baraka Agricultural college. “The communities will bring a rich selection of products to the market including the Lare pumpkin, Molo Mushunu chicken, Ogiek honey and Mau Forest dried nettle. Slow Food Earth Markets bring together local producers offering healthy, quality food directly to consumers at fair prices and guarantee environmentally sustainable methods in additionto preserving food culture of the local community and contribute to defending biodiversity.