 For
three days, political leaders and representatives of the private sector, the civil
society and the scientific community from around the globe met in Nairobi to
discuss the perspectives and potentialities of a sustainable blue economy. This
is the whole scope of human activities on and around oceans, rivers and lakes,
and their impacts on development and the health of our planet. Oceans,
rivers, lakes, coast, mangroves and seabed are critical elements of our environment,
which we massively and ever increasingly rely on: Ocean-based industries
contribute roughly $1.5 trillion to the global economy, with fisheries and
aquaculture supporting the livelihoods of 12 per cent of the global population,
without mentioning tourism. About 2.8 billion people live less than 100 kilometers
from a coast. Yet, a growing number of ecosystems and species are endangered by
pollution, overfishing, destruction of habitats and climate change. This
is where scientists have a major role to play. By understanding the subtle
mechanisms by which all this is interrelated, they help us identify the threats
and limits to avoid irreversible disasters. Joining forces with political
authorities, the private sector and the populations, they are key players in
framing the sustainable blue economy. Their
mobilisation and catalyzing action have already produced results on the global
stage. In 2015, the “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine
resources” Sustainable Development Goal (SDG 14) was adopted, followed by the
creation of the Oceans and Climate Platform during COP21 in Paris. In June last
year, the first United Nations Conference Ocean Conference adopted nine
Communities of Ocean Action to support and monitor the implementation of SDG
14. Land-based
plastic pollution in the oceans has finally made its way at the forefront of
the international agenda, and the United Nations Environment Programme is
working on a comprehensive Ocean Strategy. Oceanologists and other specialists
of marine habitats also greatly contribute to the work of the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change and the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Services. The scientific community has helped consolidate an
international legal order of the environment, especially through the
Multilateral Environment Agreements and the Regional Seas conventions. Looking ahead
to the next UN Ocean Conference in 2020 in Lisbon, the Nairobi conference gives
the world another crucial and timely opportunity to hear the scientists’ voices
on what it takes to build a truly sustainable blue economy. Hence, France is
grateful to the University of Nairobi and the Kenyan government for mobilising many
high-level participants for the Science and Research Symposium. The upcoming
One Planet Summit, in Nairobi in March 2019, will build on the findings of the
Nairobi conference to move even more forward down the sustainable blue economy
path, with a focus on concrete action in Africa. Sustainable
blue economy is dealt with at a multilateral level for a reason: Oceans, rivers
and biodiversity do not recognise borders, and joining forces is the only way
to achieve anything. Science makes no exception in this regard. France bets on multinational
and multidisciplinary teams and coalitions of scientists to produce and promote
state-of-the-art knowledge. Indeed, all the French scientists at the Nairobi conference
belong to multinational teams working on multinational projects: The PADDLE Consortium,
working on more inclusive marine spatial planning, production and ocean
governance models, is funded by the European Union and gathers partners from
France, Portugal, Germany, Senegal, Brazil and Cape Verde, the whole being
coordinated by a French scientist from the Research and Development Institute,
Dr Marie Bonnin. Closer
to Nairobi, researchers from Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique Madagascar and Vietnam
are members of the West Indian Ocean Delta Exchange and Research Network, supported
by the French and Canadian research, and focussing on socio-ecosystems and landscape
transformations in river deltas. Another example is the West Indian Ocean Marine Science
Association, currently presided by a senior Kenyan scientist of the Kenyan
Marine and Fisheries Research Institute, Dr Jacqueline Uku, in partnership with
IRD at La Réunion Island. Present
in all three oceans, a member of all six Regional Seas conventions and strong
of the world’s second largest Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ, 11 000 000 Km²),
France has systematically advocated in the international fora to expand
existing marine protected areas and create new ones. Marine protected areas
cover 22 per cent of the French territorial waters, including the largest in
the world in New Caledonia (1 300 000 Km²). With
a sense of urgency, France also advocates for the protection of endangered
species such as whales, the fight against plastic pollution in the oceans and
the preservation and restoration of coral reefs and mangroves. Recently it has been
actively involved, along with the EU, in putting together a new international
instrument to protect biodiversity in the high seas, in the context of the UN
Convention on the Law of the Sea. Our
water bodies are essential elements of the environment in which we live, build
and thrive. Scientists are firsthand witnesses of their functioning and benefits,
but also of the damages uncontrolled human action can produce on them and,
ultimately, back on us. It is therefore their duty to alert us on those
threats. But it is our collective responsibility to lend them a careful ear,
and then take proper action.