Champions KCB make the short trip to RFUEA ground today to face Quins in a Kenya Cup clash of heavyweights. The bankers and Quins have both won two and lost a match in their opening three fixtures. Today’s encounter promises to be an explosive one and will be televised live on Bamba Sport at 4pm. KCB returned to winning ways after losing to Nondies 27-22 a fortnight ago to thrash Mwamba 33-13 at the Lions Den in Ruaraka last weekend. Head coach Curtis Olago recalled the heavy artillery last weekend including Kenya Simbas’ Moses Amusala, Oliver Mangeni, Andrew Amonde, Darwin Mukidza and handed out a debut to Tony Onyango, who was signed from Homeboyz in the transfer window. Olago will rely heavily on his forwards to lay a platform for victory against the Ngong Road outfit. Key players for the bankers up-front will be Francis Mwita, Peter Kaaria, Nick Ongeri and Curtis Lilako. In the backs, Olago will rely on Ken Moseti, Michael Wanjala and Billy Isabwa alongside Jacob Ojee and Darwin Mukidza. Olago said he expects a competitive contest and reckoned that the side that will make less mistakes will carry the day. “This match will be won in the forwards and if we can generate quick ball and execute well in attack, then we will carry the day,” added Olago. On their part, Quins will bank on internationals Wilson Kopondo and Malcom Onsando in the forwards alongside Patrice Agunda and skipper Peter Misango. Quins have the edge in the backs with the likes of David Ambunya, Alex Olaba and Ugandan import Solomon Okia at fullback. Coach Charles Cadovillis admitted that today’s match will be tough. “Playing the champions is not an easy task but the boys are up to the task and we will give it our best,” he added. The match will be preceded by Impala and Mean Machine at the same venue from 2pm. Impala have had a decent start to the campaign, winning their opening three futures while the students have blown hot and cold, winning one and losing two. Early pacesetters Kabras are at Madaraka to face minnows Strathmore Leos, on form Nondies host win-less Mwamba, Nakuru host Blak Blad as Oilers host Homeboyz.