Let the annual pilgrimage begin. It's time for hard-working tax-paying Nairobians to invade the Coast...This particular tradition is special but irrelevant and of no value, however every year the pilgrims have to observe this ritual! Wasee wa Nairobi in December have to go to Mombasa and drink with fellow Nairobians whom they have been drinking and partying with all year round in Nairobi, see the same faces, waste money in the name of vacation by paying for a hotel that they will never sleep in or even have breakfast in or know where the hotel restaurant is located. Most of the time Nairobians spend an average of a week at the Coast but they will never set foot on the beach, don’t see the ocean let alone even use the hotel pool. The typical Nairobian will spend four out of the five days at the Coast drinking day and night, before packing their bags to come back to Nairobi in January. Someone needs to teach Nairobians how to enjoy their vacation. Drinking akohor for lunch, supper and breakfast is not taking or enjoying a vacation. The Mombasa raha vibe is a lie. I have heard stories of guys who go down to the Coast with the family, check them into a luxury five-star hotel then the ninja disappears only to be seen when the family (wife and kids) is checking out! To make matters, worse the ninja reports back for inspection after going missing for four nights wearing the same clothes from the day they landed and stinking like a brewery. My point this festive season for the guys taking their families down to the Coast is simple: Taking your family down and paying for that expensive hotel doesn’t give you the right to behave like a forko jembe. Just because you're footing the bill doesn’t give you the visa to disappear. Because it’s family vacation you should spend 89 per cent of the time with your family, no doubt...You can go club, I have no issues with that, but you have to be present for the meals, including breakfast. You have to swim with kids even thou you don’t know how to swim or have never entered a pool. You have to take your queen—Mama Watoto—for a walk on the beach and enjoy the sunset before you slide and go drinking with your pals...The only guys who are allowed to drink like a fish when on vacation are the single chaps who have no responsibilities...My sincere advice to single pax is simply avoid Mombasa. Going down solo is never a plan, unless you're going on a mission to find Raha and also get luck with a Swahili chic called Rahma...But just packing your bags and landing in coasto when single without an agenda can be very detrimental to your health not mention your bank account. Now that we have that settled, #TheRaverend would like to wish you all a Merry Christmas. Remember it’s Jesus birthday not yours so party responsibly, don’t drink and drive but drink and fly or walk. There is no joy in driving drunk unless you have a death wish or you're looking for a short-cut to hell! All the stories people tell of guys driving drunk and the car knowing the route home is BS so don’t be a statistic; make merry and be safe...And remember after Christmas comes the New Year then the aftermath that’s January, so budget well, stick to the budget and make sure all your important bills have been sorted even before you think about diving into the Drinkthemba madness.