Knec boss George Magoha has asked Education CS Amina Mohammed to unsympathetically deal with candidates who were caught cheating in the KCSE exams saying choices must have consequences. The results of 100 candidates were cancelled in this year’s KCSE exam over cheating. Several others were withheld on suspicion of cheating. “In this life you have a choice. Life is made of choices. We sang everyday that the exam has not been leaked and if you attempt we shall catch you and we have caught a few, so don’t sympathise with them,” Magoha said. He spoke yesterday during the release of the results at Knec headquarters off Dennis Pritt road. TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said sixty two cases of teachers involved in cheating were reported to the commission. She said five teachers have since been interdicted. Magoha warned politicians against interfering in the disciplinary process. “I’m asking the politicians from those sides not to dare to come and disturb us here because we have been empowered to work and we are working.” Magoha laid the blame on parents who he said give money to their children to buy fake exam papers and those who do not spend quality time with their children. “They (Parents) think that money is some form of educational love, it is not,” Magoha said. He warned candidates against falling victim to the ploy of such parents and “allow their brains to work”. “And if an adult, even if it’s your parent who produced you with his own blood, tell him to go to hell,” Magoha said. The Knec boss said the council has managed to seal all the loopholes that were previously being exploited to leak exams but hitches still being experienced after exam papers leave the containers. “The problem is now between the containers and the school where a few teachers and some unscrupulous thugs are exposing the exams,” said the Knec boss. Read: Knec cancels results for 100 KCSE candidates over cheating Amina said no paper was leaked save for the few cases of attempted exposure. she revealed that the Education Ministry in coordination with the Interior Ministry managed to arrest six masterminds of exam cheating who had been on the run for over six years. “Four have already been charged in various Kenyan courts and are awaiting justice to be meted against them,” she said. The CS assured candidates implicated in cheating of a fare disciplinary process. “I wish to assure the nation, affected candidates and parents that due diligence will be undertaken to ensure that no candidate is unfairly treated,” Amina said. In total, 660,204 candidates sat this year’s exam - 338,628 male (51.29%) and 321,576 female (48.71%). They include 1,499 special needs candidates. Amina said the percentage composition indicates that the country is almost achieving gender parity in KCSE examination enrolment. The exams were sat across 10,078 exam centres. 18 counties had more female than male candidates compared to 17 last year. Knec contracted 82,059 field officers in the supervision and invigilation of the exam touted as the strictest in Kenya’s history. They include 450 commissioners and assistant county commissioners, 900 education officers, 9,878 centre managers, 10,183 supervisors, 36,622 invigilators Some 21,556 security personnel were deployed to man the exams – 1,800 were sent to man security facilities while 19,756 were sent to man examination centres. Some 2,470 drivers were used during the whole examination exercise. PS Belio Kipsang lauded the multi agency approach that was used to oversee the exams saying it led to the huge success of the exams. “It was a collective responsibility and I would like to thank my colleagues,” Kipsang said. Also Read: KCSE 2018: Number of As increase, fewer candidates qualify to join varsity Click here for the latest political news