The US has promised to
support Kenya on its war on corruption and backed the efforts made so
far to prosecute suspects. Assistant
Secretary of State for the Bureau of African Affairs Tibor Nagy Nagy
said the county has made significant strides to tame the vice. The efforts, he said,
are key to the development of the country and the engagement of Kenya and
the US. “Thole
issue of graft and corruption is of key importance to the United
States, and it is of key importance to your president’s
administration,” Nagy said during a telephonic press conference on Thursday. “Both
sides are taking a very active and dynamic approach. There have been
some real, real significant movements on the part of the government
recently, and we very much look forward to engaging on this future as
we go forward in the political progression and good governance,” he
said. The
government has heightened the fight against corruption since
appointed of new DPP Noordin Haji and DCI boss George Kinoti in
March. Senior
government officials and prominent individuals have been arrested and
charged with corruption. Deputy
Chief Justice Philemona Mwilu is the highest ranking government
official who have been arrested over corruption allegations. The DCJ
is currently fighting in court to stop her prosecution. Already
Haji has Queen’s Counsel Khawar Qureshi as the lead counsel in the
case, a move that has been challenged by lawyers representing Mwilu. Yesterday, Kenya Pipeline Company managing director Joe Sang was arrested over Sh29 billion scandal. He will be arraigned on Monday. Concerning
the war against the Al Shabaab in Somalia, Nagy said supporting
Kenyan and regional forces, in trying to restore stability in the
war-torn country. This, he said, will include capacity
building through training among other measures. “We recognize the sacrifices that
the Kenyan people have had to make because of their courageous
battle," he said. “The US will continue to pursue
trying to bring peace and stability to Somalia with our regional
allies, and of course the brunt of the sacrifice, unfortunately, is
being taken by the African neighbors,” he said. US government will support the strengthening of the Somali National Army to deal with the internal terror threat. Nagy also stressed the need to support Somalia
Government to create job opportunities to her people so as to eradicate emergence of terror groups as a result of joblessness. “If you simply get rid of the bad guys, if you don’t then provide
government services, you don’t provide protection to the people,
then unfortunately a new group of bad guys will rise up, which is
what has happened in Somalia before,” he said.