I
have been reading some reports on changes in the Horn of Africa by one
commentator and I found myself confronted by what US President Trump has now
famously branded as “fake news.” It
has been insinuated that the Horn of Africa’s regional economic integration
pact bringing together Ethiopia, Eritrea and Somalia will leave Somaliland as
the biggest losers. One
report titled “Winners and Losers in Horn
of Africa’s regional economic pact” created a totally misplaced opinion on
Somaliland. As
a Somaliland citizen working for a respected civil society umbrella organisation
that deals with regional foreign policy in depth, I feel compelled to respond
directly to the Somaliland aspect of the report. Misplaced
argument being fronted is that the warming of relations and a trilateral pact harkens the
isolation of Somaliland from the geopolitics and economic relations of the
region. Some commentators claim the recent diplomatic movements prove Somalia
is committed and willing to flex its muscles in ways that threaten Somaliland’s
long-term dream of being recognised for the independence it reclaimed in 1991,
after dissolving its failed union with Somalia. This
judgment presents a
misreckoning and misunderstanding of the dynamics at work. This would not be a
problem except for the fact that the conclusions only serve to feed the
chauvinism of Somaliland’s most unsophisticated and cynical detractors, while
painting a false and shortsighted view of the Horn’s regional geopolitical
history, with the peace and reconciliation that is transpiring being a win-win
situation for all involved.  SOMALILAND’S
IMPORTANCE Some commentators have overlooked the strategic importance of Somaliland’s
territorial positioning. This territory is under the full control of the government
of Somaliland, with the government in Mogadishu having no ability or
jurisdiction to decide what happens there, and this concrete material reality
cannot be easily wished away or ignored when it comes to regional politics. DP
World, the United Arab Emirates and the Federal Government of Ethiopia
understand this reality, which is why they signed an agreement in Dubai in
March for the expansion and management of the Berbera Port. This
agreement immediately changed the dynamics of the region, transforming trade
discussions between Somaliland and Ethiopia from an incremental
trade and transit deal, to talk of Somaliland being a key economic hub in the
region’s regional economic integration initiatives. Berbera
Port is one of the oldest and most strategic maritime transit
points in the Horn of Africa and the Middle East, and was the source of
fierce competition during the bipolar international politics of Cold War
rivalries, when it served as a military naval base alternatively used by the
Soviet Union and the US, as regional alliances shifted. It is
still seen as vital among international powers in this imminent of multipolar
politics, as is clear by the enthusiasm with which the UAE agreed with the
Somaliland government to establish a military base there. Construction for this
project is already underway. The
Berbera Port modernisation deal is expected to serve as one of the key regional
strategic initiatives boosting trade connectivity, enlarging regional and
international economic integration, infrastructure development, and a creating
conducive environment for international foreign investors. Many Somalilanders
see this as a time of optimism and hope for an economically transformed future —
we would hope that journalists and commentators would do the same. Furthermore,
there is a long-standing relation of mutual necessity between Somaliland and
Ethiopia, with the former serving an indispensable importer of goods and
frontline partner in defending against terror and other threats for the latter.
Addis Ababa, is only 700km from Hargeisa, whereas the distance between Addis
and Mogadishu is twice that, meaning Somaliland is able to impact and support
Ethiopia in a way Somalia cannot. This
geographical and socioeconomic proximity has made Somaliland the second largest
trade client, with Ethiopia gaining $900 million yearly in trade. These
factors, combined with the potential benefit of landlocked Ethiopia from
Somaliland’s coastal access and the twice-daily flights from Addis to Hargeisa,
show just how intertwined the fates of Somaliland and Ethiopia is in the long
run. Some
authors undervalue Somaliland, compared to the many other supposed ‘winners’
and losers’ of these regional changes, and failed to accurately report on the
legitimacy of its claims to independence, and the solidity of existence. They fail
to interrogate or question the claim Somaliland is a ‘breakaway’ region of
Somalia. With
that in mind, I would like to set the record straight. Somaliland won its
political independence from the British Empire on June 26, 1960, five days
before Italian Somalia gained its own independence, the same day (1 July) that
the two separate entities voluntarily joined together to form the Somali Republic.
It took no longer than six months for the legal basis of the merger to be
called into question, given the ambiguous nature through which Italian Somalia decolonized,
and the faulty and illegitimate way in which the act of merger was acceded to. Nevertheless,
Somaliland citizens became de facto part of a merger that failed to deliver on
the hopes of the original union, and instead resulted in civil war, of which
Somalilanders were the primary victim. As such, in 1991, the people of
Somaliland overwhelmingly decided to legally dissolve the merger, and reclaim
their independence. While
Somaliland citizens hope their neighbours in Somalia return to a climate of
peace and safety, we are clearheaded enough to recognise that what is currently
considered the government of Somalia is not one that can manage its own
internal political and security affairs. Somalia has remained under the
occupation of African Union troops for more than a decade, and that its
unelected and unaccountable president is protected by foreign troops, while the
country’s innocent civilians suffer every day from shelling, killings, and
bombing. Moreover,
regional dynamics remain in flux, with no clear winners or losers but a complex
set of trade-offs and openings that could lead to progress or failure. For
example, today, Ethiopia faces its own sets of particular predicaments, with a
political and socioeconomic crisis in certain cases leading to violent clashes
and conflict across sectarian and ethnic lines. To
solve these crises, especially in the Somali-predominant east of the country,
Ethiopia will rely on the strategic partnership it has cultivated with
Somaliland over many years. This partnership is indispensable, as Somaliland
works closely with Ethiopian authorities to maintain of their shared 750km
borders, including during the turmoil that transpired in the Somali region of
Ethiopia in August, when Somaliland helped contain and manage the fallout. Somaliland
and Somalia entered into bilateral talks in 2012 as a means to advance and
sustain regional and international peace, in the name of turning a two-state
reality into a two-state solution. What is required for these talks to succeed
is a political leader for Somalia that is an honest broker, one who can be
effective in his foreign policy and can deliver at home as a representative of
his people. Somalia’s
President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo, has taken the path of aggression and
realpolitik over dialogue and persuasion in an attempt to win back Somaliland.
This path will never succeed, as Somaliland’s democratically-based and
consolidating state-building process, is irreversible, and can never
functionally integrate in the agonising situation of Somalia. Somaliland
has contributed extensively to regional and international peace through its
struggles against terrorism, piracy, and international crimes. To gleefully
paint a picture of Somaliland’s current position in the region is thus not only
cruel and misinformed but also equally stands on the side of a less peaceful
and more extremist world. In any event, the region’s leaders are wise enough to
realize that any regional economic and security integration will necessarily
involve Somaliland as a strategic and competent partner. Somaliland
possesses vast strategic resources on onshore and offshore and is able to
defend its territory responsibly. This is a reality that cannot be erased by
articles demanding respect for Somalia’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity. To
invigorate the bilateral relations between Somalia and Ethiopia, it will not
come through the everyday beseeching of the international community, nor will
it come through undertaking pernicious and underhanded actions against
Somaliland or even Djibouti. Such nebulous and shortsighted steps will only
bring those regional populations that have escaped Somalia’s mayhem into the
fray, spreading instability at a time when lasting peace in the Horn has never
been more promising. The Somali people, in general, have had integrity and
pride, and there was a time they were aspiring to lead the region of the Horn
of Africa. However, steps such as those taken by President Farmajo show a
different type of Somali leader — one more reminiscent of Siyad Barre — that
uses division and deception to try and secure their domestic ambitions, rather
than one who does what is best for the common people. The
sweeping, high-velocity changes happening in the region — which have both
inter-state and intra-state dynamics — have only just begun, and it is too
early to explain how they will play out. IGAD remains a loose and largely
untested institution, and any sustainable and solid regional integration will
take leadership and strategic vision to emerge. This will require an assessment
of common interests and the division of economic and political labours,
rather than cynical assessments of winners and losers. Now
is a time to foster bilateral and multilateral cooperation amongst regional
actors, rather than sow divisions, so that the Horn of Africa may become more
peaceful, secure and prosperous.  Mohamoud (Barawani), Mohamed.diiriye@gmail.com 