Operations at the Nairobi county assembly could be interrupted by the stand-off between the Public Service Board and and senior employees over deployments. At least nine senior officers have rejected the board’s decision to transfer them to the newly created liaison office based at City Hall Annex. The executive has also seconded staff to the the office to act as a link between the two arms of the county government. The officers have sought court orders to reverse the decision of the board chaired by acting speaker Mwaura Chege. The board, which is the employer, had on November 12, resolved to second the nine officers to the liaison office. Acting clerk Nancy Mutai informed the officers about the changes on December 6. Mutai told the employees they were being seconded to the office to improve liaison with the executive for efficiency. “The board resolved that you be seconded to the executive arm of the county government to offer the support required,” Mutai’s letter reads. Among those redeployed are principal clerk Monica Muthami, senior assembly counsel Daisy Kariuki, media and public relations director Pauline Akuku, principal administrator Jennifer Korio and clerk assistants Sammy Kiptoo, Robert Otieno, Asman John and Shirley Achieng. The officers have declined to leave their current offices despite other employees having been directed to occupy their places. “Why should I leave? Someone is coming for us because we were close to (impeached speaker) Beatrice Elachi. This is not someone’s house,” one the employees said. Mutai said that the new office is intended to facilitate timely and smooth flow of information, including coordination of executive functions for consideration by the assembly. Majority leader Abdi Guyo, who is the vice-chairperson of the board, said the redeployment was an administrative issue that the County Assembly Services Act, 2017, bestows on the board. He rejected claims that pro-Elachi employees were targeted. “I have never known that civil servants are pro or against somebody. They are supposed to be neutral and act according to the oath of service delivery,” Guyo said. In suit papers filed before High Court judge Maurine Onyango, the employees want the board prohibited from seconding them to the new office.