Residents and businesses will be relieved when a rescue centre for more than 1,000 street children is completed in Ruai, Education executive Janet Ouko has said. Ouko yesterday said the Sh126.9 million Ruai Rehabilitation Centre will be completed in April. The centre, initiated in 2015 by the county, was then considered congested and uninviting, thus, causing insecurity in the city centre. It stalled a year later after the contractor, Tacina General Contractors Limited, abandoned the project saying the city had not paid. The centre is being constructed on 40 acres. According to 2016-17 report by Auditor General Edward Ouko, work valued at Sh21.77 million had been completed by the time the project stalled. He said the new administration immediately revived the project when it took over. “The work is almost complete. It’s a modern complex that will help us rehabilitate street children,” he told the Star on the phone. Once the centre is complete, the street children would all be rounded up and taken there. It is equipped to offer early childhood education, primary and secondary education as well as sports. Children above 16 years of age will be trained in vocational skills. The centre will also have a clinic, ablution block, dining area and hostels. Currently, the county runs four active rehab centres. They are Makadara centre with 249 boys; Kayole centre with 89 girls; Shauri Moyo centre with 69 children and Joseph Kang’ethe Social Hall, now a rehab center with 103 children. The county says lack of funds has hampered rehabilitation of street children. In 2016, governor Evans Kidero blamed the Ministry of Devolution for reneging on a promise to channel Sh300 million annually to City Hall to aid the rehabilitation. The street urchins have occupied many streets, roundabouts, backstreests and footbridges in the city centre and have become a security threat. They snatch handbags and other valuables, and beg for money. In some areas, they threaten to smear human faeces on those who don’t give in to their demands. Globe Cinema roundabout, Moi Avenue, Tom Mboya Avenue, Mama Ngina and Mfangano streets are among the areas taken over by street children.