Nyeri residents have been advised to seek treatment in primary health facilities instead of the county referral hospital unless in case of emergency. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said since the launch of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) majority of patients have been visiting the hospital for ailments that can be treated in dispensaries and health centers. This has resulted to congestion at the county referral hospital and other county hospitals. He said nurses and clinical offices from dispensaries and health centers will be making decisions on whether one needs referral to the next level or not. “This is the only way we can decongest our hospitals and ensure our people get the best quality healthcare,” he said. Kahiga said there is all basic medication that can he handled at dispensaries and health centers. “Any issue that cannot be handled at that point shall be referred to higher level and patients will be given priority upon referrals. The goal of UHC is to ensure minor ailments are treated at the dispensary and health center levels, while the complicated medical cases are referred to the county hospital for further management and care,” the governor said. He said his government is strengthening primary healthcare services to ensure the public can access quality health services in the nearest primary health facility. This, he said, includes staffing, provision of medical supplies, equipping laboratories and opening new dispensaries and health centers. The governor said the county has hired 137 personnel while 77 more will be hired to address the shortage of personnel in the county. He said KEMSA has been given direction to address all the shortages of drugs, has already delivered and the final batch of drugs will be delivered by the end of the week. KEMSA will now be delivering drugs directly to the facilities. Kahiga also warned that those who will go directly to the county referral hospital without any referral will be charged while those who will have been referred from the lower levels will be treated for free. He called on residents to go through the referral system so as to enjoy the free services of UHC. “We are not prepared to handle you at the county referral hospital unless you have been referred as this is not the first point of call,” the governor added. The governor spoke when he briefed the media on the progress of UHC in his office in Nyeri town on Tuesday. Nyeri is among the four counties piloting UHC. The others are Isiolo, Machakos and Kisumu. The program was launched on December 13 by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kisumu. Registration will continue until December 31. The county has since managed to register 65 per cent which is about 550,000 people of its total population.