Doctors will meet next month to reduce charges for patient services. The 2016 fees have been criticised as prohibitive. The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board said the meeting will be held on January 8 in Nairobi. The public may attend or send suggestions in advance. “Note the current professional fee guidelines are available on the board’s website,” KMPDB chairman George Magoha said in a notice. The meeting follows the Parliamentary Health committee directive last month for the board to review the fees. Chairperson Sabina Chege (Murang’a woman representative) said the guidelines, which set minimum and maximum charges, were unnecessarily expensive. The uproar came after MP Shah Hospital early last month billed the family of the late Matilda Anyango Sh800,000 for services rendered in 12 hours before she died. The board defended the hospital on grounds that it followed the Professional Fee Guidelines for Medical and Dental Practitioners Revised Edition, 2016. Sh402,750 was for professional services by the vascular surgeon and anaesthesiologists, while the rest — Sh485,955 — was for nursing care, pharmacy, laboratory, equipment, bed, and other charges. The hospital further detained Anyango’s body for 14 days, with a daily mortuary fee of Sh2,100, as her family could not pay the bill. MPs summoned the hospital management. It is wrong for a surgeon to be paid Sh300,000 for a life he did not save, they said. In response, a KMPDB official told the legislators they had started reviewing the prices charged by private hospitals. “We are committed to giving a report to the Health ministry within three months,” the officer said. Sabina said some hospitals charge patients Sh60,000 for a procedure that can be accessed for Sh25,000 or even less. Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino questioned where the board benchmarked before coming up with the “unreasonable” hospital fees. James Murgor (Keiyo North) told the board to consider the plight of Kenyans, especially those in rural areas. The 2016 guidelines set the fees for adult circumcision at a minimum Sh18,000 and a maximum of Sh50,000. For circumcision of babies, doctors can ask for up to Sh70,000 for a 15-minute procedure. To drain a abscess, they are allowed to collect up to Sh60,000. Kenya Medical Association president Jacqueline Kitulu said the current guidelines can only be replaced through a process that maintains fidelity to the Constitution. “We, however, would like to point out that this authority doesn’t in any way extend to the intrusion of government into the private relationship between a private practitioner and a client,” she said.