I do believe that access to affordable and quality healthcare can
only be fully realised through the full implementation of Universal Healthcare. The journey towards realising  UHC in Kenya has been long and
tortuous,  quite often making two steps forward and reversing with one
step backwards. But now I can see the resolve, I can feel the energy and I can
smell the victory that we are bound to have because we are working together as
Kenyans on this enterprise. This is no doubt due to the fact that the Building
Bridges Initiative has breathed a new culture of hope and confidence among
Kenyans. Our potential for success is further energised by the relaxed
political atmosphere engendered by the BBI. President Uhuru Kenyatta and former
Prime Minister Raila Odinga should not relent in chasing the corrupt elements
in this nation wherever they may be found. No stone should be left unturned as
the Assets Recovery Agency seeks to return ill gotten wealth back to the public
treasury. We need such assets recovered so that we can finance our
healthcare system, build our vocational training centres and take care of our
public servants when they retire. We have had gallant men and women, brave patriots, who have always
stood for what is right and just for all Kenyans. It is such men and women who
have struggled relentlessly against poverty, ignorance and disease. Their
aspirations may not have been realised in their lifetime. But I can say with
pride and confidence that I am serving Kisumu as a governor at a
time when the President is more than ready to give the common Kenyan an
opportunity to live in a prosperous and democratic Kenya. A Kenya where
periodic cycles of elections will no longer herald violent conflicts and
misery for the common man. I hope Uhuru and Raila will live to see this promise
fulfilled within the next election cycle. The secret of development lies in good and democratic governance, institutionalised
rule of law, unassailable respect for human rights and the universal acceptance
of the equality of human kind. In this regard implementing the gender bill is
just as important as the pursuit of UHC. This bill is not just important in
eliminating gender-based discrimination in political representation; it is also
vital in establishing a culture and a national ethos of universal equality
among men and women, the cornerstone of UHC. I have no doubt in my mind that our women play an exceptional role
in bringing us up as children and in providing sustenance in every family. If
we are to fully liberate our women, we must invest in modernising our agriculture
through improved mechanisation, irrigation, improved seeds, and good farm gate
prices for our farmers. Statistics show the labour force in peasant agriculture
is mainly from the women folk. Diseases associated with malnutrition could
easily be associated with the degradation of labour among the women folk over a
long period of time. As we have always asserted, a healthy nation is one that can also
work productively for its future. Low productivity in agriculture, and in our
economy in general, is perhaps directly related to poor health among rural and urban folks. Take, for example, the frequent flooding in the Nyando River
basin. Anybody who has read Emile Zola's novel, The Earth, will realise how sheer socioeconomic backwardness and
wretched poverty can plunge human beings into the worst dungeons of unhealthy
living. That is why it is very urgent that we implement the Koru-Soin
Multipurpose Dam not only to tame the Nyando River and eliminate flooding, but
also turn the fury of the water coming from the Nandi Hills into a flurry of
irrigation projects to improve agricultural productivity. This project will no doubt be a game changer in the political
economy of this region. Agricultural productivity will go up ten fold in
the Nyando Basin through improved, expanded and reliable irrigation. Flooding
in this river basin will finally be tamed, stabilising family settlements and
eliminating water borne diseases, among other diseases. It is not unusual for those who are always on the lecture trail
talking about lifestyle related diseases to exhort their audiences to eat
healthy foods. Such lecturers assume that those being addressed have the means
to afford such food. The poor do not eat unhealthily out of choice.
Quite often, they do so out of compulsion; out of the necessity to survive
within their economic means.  The market, or capital for that matter, is very often aware of the
needs of the poor and will manufacture foods with high fart and high
carbohydrate content, very often over sweetened, to accommodate the palate as
well as the pockets of the poor to the detriment of their health. The battle for universal healthcare is hence a battle not only of
access to affordable and quality healthcare within the medical field, but
also within the socioeconomic context in which poor health is reproduced. 