Twenty-six jumbos have died in the Maasai Mara in the past three months—11 of them may have been poisoned, the Mara Elephant Project has said. Six deaths were reported in the Triangle and Lamai Wedge in the Northern Serengeti. In a report released on December 14, the MEP said the deaths were reported in September, October and November. Three unknown deaths were reported during this period in September. The carcasses of the three elephants were found in close
proximity in protected areas of the Mara ecosystem, all within a
three-day period. Kenya
Wildlife Service and MEP rangers took samples and sent them to a KWS lab. The report noted that they are looking for evidence that poison was used intentionally to kill the elephants. It is thought the animals may have been killed by a strong pesticide
found in their system. "We may also find out that the elephant died of a natural blood disease," the report reads. It notes that if it is established that the elephants were poisoned
with carbofurudan, then it means that they were targeted either for
their tusks or as retaliation for a conflict-related incident. "Depending
on the situation, we can then send our intelligence team to investigate
and hopefully bring the culprit to justice," the report states. "If
we find out an elephant died as a result of a pesticide it helps MEP
determine where the pesticide is being used, on what crops and whether
it’s now in the water source the elephants were exposed to." Only one carcass was reported in October. NOVEMBER During this period, seven elephant deaths were categorised as “unknown”. According
to the report, there is some evidence based on the location and
circumstances of these unknown deaths that point toward poisoning
as a result of conflict retaliation. Some unknown deaths point to pesticide poisoning. The report notes that during the postmortems conducted by KWS vets, there was no indication of disease. "Well,
for one, all of our ranger units have been on high alert in the areas
where conflict has been up, and this is where we now suspect retaliation
poisoning to be the culprit," it reads. The MEP have
asked their intelligence unit to infiltrate communities where the unrest
is high in hopes of finding out more about these poisonings. All
ranger units are looking for any signs while out on daily patrols
of sick or sluggish elephants, or those that are not eating and
drinking along with the herd, in hopes of intervening before it’s too
late. "The Mara elephant deaths account for almost 42 per cent of the total elephant deaths through December," the report reads. SOLUTIONS The MEP has set up a
rapid response unit to keep elephants out of
tomato farms in case it is established that strong pesticide used on the crop is the cause of the deaths. It has tasked its officers with
speaking to community members about the pesticides they are using and
monitor the elephants' water source. "While the MEP
rapid response unit is having success in this area, MEP needs a
permanent ranger presence to really make a lasting impact," the report notes. According
to the report, having collared elephants in these areas would be
extremely helpful in deploying rangers to respond to conflict-related deaths. The MEP notes however that its collaring
programme is still on hold due to the national ban by KWS on any
non-emergency veterinary treatment.