The impasse between Marie Stopes and the Ministry of Health over the recent ban on abortion at their facilities is far from over. A lobby has sued the ministry for the decision and wants its directives nullified. In November 14, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board barred Marie Stopes Kenya from offering any form of abortion services in all its 23 facilities. Marie Stopes was also directed to submit a report of the reviewed guidelines “to conform with the law within the next 60 days”. On Friday, Network for Adolescents and Youth of Africa filed a petition at the Milimani law courts. It seeks to suspend the decision by the Director of Medical Services that stopped provision of post-abortion care services by Marie Stopes. The NGO wants the court to quash the decision by the Kenya Film Classification Board to ban advertisement related to the public awareness campaign on comprehensive reproductive health services undertaken by Marie Stopes Kenya in conjunction with Radio Africa Group. It wants the government barred from “making public utterances on abortion services, unless the same is accurate, scientifically and factually sound and does not perpetuate stigma against legal abortion services”. According to Naya, the decision violates the Constitution, specifically the right to life and health. The organisation says because of the ban, women and girls who present themselves in Marie Stopes clinics in need of urgent medical emergency care in the form of safe abortion and post-abortion care cannot access lawful, vital, lifesaving services. Read: Group wants Marie Stopes charged for illegal abortions “The ban is a deterrent for any woman or girl in Kenya from accessing safe abortion and post-abortion services owing to the misinformation it communicates and resultant chilling effect on health service providers who offer safe and legal abortion and post-abortion care services,” the petition reads. The lobby argues that there is a real danger of deaths resulting from lack of emergency medical treatment. Any inordinate delay may worsen medical emergency, it says. It has lashed out at the KMPDU and KFCB chief executive officer Ezekiel Mutua for stopping the public awareness campaign on comprehensive reproductive health between Marie Stopes and Radio Africa Group. The petition seeks to have the Health ministry compelled to “proactively and fully disclose and make widely available and accessibly information on legal abortion services that is accurate, timely, transparent, and devoid of moral, religious or other bias”. The information should include facilities offering abortion and post-abortion services and grounds of eligibility for the services. Also Read: Marie Stopes suspends abortion services in Kenya Click here for the latest political news