Kabras and Impala Saracens are the only two remaining unbeaten sides in the Kenya Cup after the weekend’s action. The sugar millers under new South African coach Henley Du Plessis picked up bonus point victory, hammering Strathmore Leos 62-13 at Madaraka. The sugar millers lead the standings—with 20 points three ahead of Impala Saracens—who edged Mean Machine 22-19. Second half substitute Quinto Ongo scored an injury time penalty to win the game at the death for the Sarries to keep their 100 percent record intact. The two sides meet this weekend at the Kakamega show ground, where Impala have a poor record, having won only once last season in the Enterprise Cup semi-finals where they beat the sugar millers 15-10. Speaking after their narrow win over Machine over the weekend, Impala head coach Frank Ndong said the club will have to raise the intensity and physicality if they are to win over Kabras. “We started poorly against Machine and we can’t afford a slow start against Kabras. We have a lot work to do especially when it comes to our line-out and execution in attack as well as ball handling,” he noted. Champions KCB are third on the log with 15 points after a clinical 22-13 win against Quins at the RFUEA ground. The bankers out-scored the hosts by three tries to one with Jacob Ojee, Peter Waitere and captain Curtis Olago crossing the whitewash. Darwin Mukidza added a penalty and two conversions. KCB led 8-3 at the interval. Quins skipper Patrice Agunda scored Quins consolation try with William Reeves and Jasper Ochen adding a drop goal and penalty respectively. Nondies saw their unbeaten start to the season grind to a halt after losing 13-12 to Mwamba at Jamhuri Park. It was Mwamba’s first win of the campaign after three straight defeats. Nondies stay fourth on the log with 15 points similar to KCB but have inferior goal difference to the bankers. Mwamba are eighth following the victory with seven points. Homeboyz lie sixth after a hard fought 31-28 win over Menengai Oilers at the Nakuru showground. Nakuru recorded their second win of the season with bonus point 42-22 victory over Blak Blad to stay seventh on the standings with 10 points. The varsity side lie ninth with six points while Oilers are tenth on six point. Machine are 11th on five points. Strathmore Leos remain win-less and are at the bottom of the table with two points. Match Day 5 Saturday Dec 15 Nondescripts v Harlequin (Ruaraka 2pm) Live on Bamba Sport KCB v Menengai Cream (Ruaraka 4pm) Live on Bamba Sport Mwamba v Menengai Oilers (Railway 4pm) Kabras Sugar v Impala (Kakamega showground) 4pm Blak Blad v Strathmore Leos (Kenyatta University 4pm) Nakuru v Mean Machine (Nakuru Athletic Club 4pm)