On his first meeting with International
Organization for Migration Director General in October, AU Commission chairman
Moussa Faki said they focussed on reinforcing collaboration to repatriate
migrants stranded in Libya, implement the Free Movement Protocol and the African
passport. They stressed need for African-led solutions on intra-African
migration issues.  And they are many. While migration is normal activity that
has been in place for a long period, it has become a key national and
international subject in recent past. The world marked Migration Day on Tuesday. And in the media, the South-North has been widely covered, but Africa and developing countries have been cast in negative terms. Many
Africans have died as they attempted to get to Europe to, among other things,
run away from conflicts, harsh economic conditions, hunger, political
persecution and/or to live a good life. UNCTAD’s 2018 Economic
Development in Africa Report: Migration for Structural Transformation notes:
“Images of thousands of African youth drowning in the Mediterranean, propelled
by poverty or conflict at home and lured by the hope of jobs abroad, have fed a
misleading narrative that migration from Africa harms rather than helps the
continent.” The report looks into this at this “preconceived
notion”, and further assesses the evidence to identify policy pathways that
harness the benefits of African migration and mitigate its negative effects. UNCTAD Director General Mukhisa Kituyi
notes, “Migration benefits both origin and destination countries across Africa.
These migrants not only fill skills gaps in destination countries, but also
contribute to development in their origin countries. Children remaining in the
origin country of a migrant parent are also often more educated than their
peers, thanks to their parent’s migration. The connections that migrants create
between their origin and their destination countries have led to thriving diaspora
communities.” Cote d’Ivoire – a leading migration
destination on the continent, has reaped significant benefits from
international migration. In 2008, international migrants’ contribution amounted
to almost a fifth (19per cent) of Cote d’Ivoire’s GDP. Origin countries, on the other
hand, gain from migrants’ remittances, diaspora investment, along with
nostalgia trade generated by migrants’ demand for products from their home
countries, and from knowledge, technology and skills transfer from return
migrants. Intra-African migration has helped lift
millions out of poverty. For many African women who are increasingly migrating
to international destinations on the continent, opportunities in domestic
service, informal trade, retail and other services have enabled them to earn
incomes that improve their livelihoods, support their families and contribute
to poverty reduction in households through in kind and cash transfers. Contrary to the widely-held belief that
migration contributes to growing unemployment in destination countries, the
report finds that international migration in Africa is not associated with
unemployment in destinations as international migrants often move to regional
markets that readily absorb their skills. As the report finds, low-skilled migrant
farmers from Burkina Faso, for example, gained new skills in Cote d’Ivoire that
allowed them to engage to higher-skilled occupations that often offered better
paid and more stable employment. Speaking during day two of the 22nd Meeting of Intergovernmental Committee of Experts in Rwanda on November 22,  Linda Oucho said Africa should not only focus on cash remittances but also social remittances in  form of diaspora skills. "They can make a huge difference on the ground if brought back to the continent," Oucho, from African Migration and Development Policy Centre, in Kenya said. "We need to allow people to establish and work anywhere in the East African Community. All countries have agreed but implementation is slow," Christophe Bazivamo of the East African Community noted in the panel discussion. "Free movement of persons a human right that must be respected - it promotes regional integration, tourism, trade and investment," Cyrus Munyaburanga of the Economic, Social, and Cultural Council of the African Union said. What is needed for African and developing economies, and in fact the world, to seek ways of managing migration with the objective of commercialising it. Thomas Gammeltoft-Hansen and Ninna Nyberg Sørensen The migration industry and the commercialization of international migration note that migration has become business, big business. Over the last decades, they say, a host of new business opportunities have emerged that capitalise on migrants’ desires to move as well as on governments’ perceived need to control movement across international borders. "From the rapid growth of specialised transportation and labour contracting companies, to multinational companies managing eg detention centres or establishing border security, to the organised criminal networks profiting from human smuggling and trafficking, a growing commercialisation of international migration can be witnessed," they say.    