A group of environmentalists are now calling for the culling of hippos around Lake Naivasha whose number in the last three years has risen sharply leading to deadly attacks. This came as a middle aged man was attacked and left for the dead by a hippo along South Lake while illegally fishing in the lake over the weekend. Last month, a Chinese national was killed by a hippo while another was seriously injured while taking pictures of the animals on the shoreline of the troubled lake. According to Peter Muthui the chairman Friends of Lake Naivasha, the animals had become wild and unmanageable attacking tourists, legal and licensed fishermen. He noted that since the year began, three people had been killed by hippos in the lake and over 15 others seriously injured with three of them permanently paralyzed. “Early in the year one man lost both of his legs in Kasarani area while a couple of week’s back a Chinese tourist was killed by a hippo that was later shot dead by KWS officers,” he said. He admitted that culling would a tricky exercise but was quick to note that there was no any other solution to the crisis. “The number of hippos around the lake has in the last five years tripled raiding nearby farms and attacking fishermen at will,” he said. Muthui added that the situation had been worsened by the closure of wildlife corridors and fencing of riparian land where the animals fed making the animals wild. The chairman Lake Naivasha boat owners association David Kilo admitted that the number of the hippos had risen leading to a rise in the number of human-wildlife conflict cases. He however noted that majority of those attacked by the animals were the illegal fishermen who were venturing into the lake on foot. “The biggest problem is that these animals cannot venture out of the lake as the corridors and riparian land has been fenced off making them very wild,” he said. A senior KWS officer who declined to be named ruled out culling noting that a census and research needed to be carried out to establish the number of the hippos before action would be taken. “We have seen an upsurge in the number of hippos attacks but in most cases its human beings who are encroaching on the animals’ territory,” said the officer. Click here for the latest political news