Kenya Police have withdrawn from this weekend’s Africa Cup for Club Championship in Abuja, Nigeria citing financial constraints. The law enforcers are the latest to exit the annual event after their local nemesis and reigning champions Butali Sugar Warriors withdrew early this week. The two were to represent the country in the men’s category, having finished in top two positions last season. This is not the first time the men’s teams have failed to honour the event. Early this year, Butali and Strathmore University who were the country’s representatives failed to participate in the event that was staged in Ghana, citing various reasons. KHU chairman, Nashon Randiek, bemoaned the trend and urged clubs to come up with mechanism to feature in the event when an opportunity avails itself. Randiek said: “It can never be business as usual. Who doesn’t know that every top two clubs in each gender in the Premier League have the automatic qualification to feature in the club championship? It is sad that our top clubs are contended with local competition hence have always come up with flimsy excuses about lack of funds.” He added: “In future we would like clubs to give feedback well ahead of time if they will not be in a position to participate in the event so that we can give chance to other clubs who will be willing and ready to grace the occasion.” Despite the exit of the men’s teams the country will still be represented at the week-long event by former champions Telkom and newcomers Unites States International University Africa (USIU-A) in the women’s category. Telkom and USIU ‘A’ left the country yesterday morning for the host nation. Telkom, who are fresh from clinching the Premier League title for a record 21 years, will be seeking to recapture the continental crown which eluded them last year in Ghana. Telkom, who lost to Ghana Revenue Authority 1-0 in the final last year, are keen to reclaim the title while their compatriots USIU ‘A’ will be keen have their presence felt.