Nyatike MP Tom Odege wants Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma questioned over the continued detention of 36 Kenyan fishermen by Tanzanian authorities. In an order paper, the MP asked Speaker Justin Muturi to petition the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee to hold the Cabinet Secretary to account over the matter. He cited the continued harassment of Kenyan citizens on Lake Victoria as among the issues the Foreign Affairs CS should respond to. The said fishermen are being held in Tanzania and are set to appear in court amid calls for President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene. This will be the second time the lot will be appearing in court. They were allegedly arrested for trespass and detained after they failed to raise Sh1.2 million bail demanded by the Tanzanian authorities. "Mr Speaker, I want to know whether the CS is aware that several Kenyans have been arrested on Lake Victoria under unclear circumstances. I also want to know what steps the ministry put in place to end the continued harassment and detention of Kenyan citizens," he said. "Lastly, Mr Speaker, I want to know the status of the findings of the joint order survey between Kenya and Uganda on Migingo Island." Three Kenyan fishermen from Homa Bay county were arrested on November 11. Tanzanian security officials claimed the fishermen from Kiwa beach had trespassed the fishing boundary. Read: No fisherman will be harassed in Lake Victoria - Matiang'i Homa Bay county BMU chairman Edward Oremo said Tanzanian security personnel also confiscated their fishing gear. While appealing to the government to find a lasting solution to end the harassment, Oremo said Tanzanian authorities also took away the fishermen's catch worth millions of shillings. This was barely a week after seven Kenyan fishermen had been arrested over the same allegation. The fishermen from Remba Island in Suba North, Homa Bay county, were arrested on November 5 and detained at Sota Beach in Tanzania. Kibro BMU chairman Samwel Magese claimed the fishermen have been tortured by Tanzanian authorities. He asked leaders, including President Uhuru, to intervene and secure their freedom. Efforts to get a comment from the CS were unfruitful. Also read: Tension in Migingo as Ugandan police evicts 200 Tanzanian fishers Click here for the latest political news