Governors' wives have been accused of using IFMIS passwords to access public funds. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission vice-chairperson Sophia Lepuchirit said serving and former governors will be held accountable if found that their spouses took public funds for personal use. "It is against the law for governors' wives to know details of the county governments' accounts, leave alone accessing IFMIS passwords," she warned. Lepuchirit made the remarks on Sunday during the International Anti-Corruption Day at Meru National Polytechnic. Chief Executive Officer Halakhe Waqo told the public to assist the commission to fight against corruption. He said complainants in graft cases in public hospitals, schools, the police and other public organisations are usually also involved in the vice. They report because they have been denied their "cut" in the deal, Waqo said. He said all Kenyans must join hands in the war on corruption and the task should not be left to the commission. Waqo said the private sector is also grappling with corruption. Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi said corruption money is being used as political capital for bribing voters. The Governor, who was the guest of honour, said in the past there was infighting between anti-corruption agencies. He left the crowd in stitches when he told a story of a man who had stolen meat who was being pursued by hyenas. Murungi said when the man realised the hyenas were about to catch him, he threw a piece of meat at them and left them fighting as he fled. He said previous anti-corruption investigators used to fight for the "stolen meat". Murungi said whenever the investigators got near the thief, a new team of investigators. The Governor said this frustrated the war on corruption. He accused churches of condoning corruption but accepting ill-gotten cash during harambees. Kenya University Students Organisation chairperson Antony Manyara called for a curriculum review to help fight corruption. Click here for the latest political news