AU special envoy Raila Odinga has told ODM leaders to tone down on 2022 succession politics and focus on addressing urgent issues affecting Kenyans. He spoke on Wednesday during a meeting with MPs from the Coast region led by Msambweni's Suleiman Dori. Raila said MPs mentioned by the ODM Disciplinary Committee will be given a fair hearing by National Executive Committee. The ODM disciplinary committee recommended the expulsion of Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and Dori over gross misconduct. Jumwa and Dori were summoned in October to appear before the ODM disciplinary committee after they openly declared their support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. They ignored the summons. More on this: We'll not honour ODM summons, Jumwa, Dori vow Raila asked ODM members to pay attention to strengthening and building bridges with the party instead of engaging in early 2022 politics. "Support the nine-point agenda spelt out in the Building Bridges to the New Kenyan Nation memorandum of understanding," Raila's spokesman Dennis Onyango said in a statement. Raila expressed disappointment with the conduct of MCAs from Homa Bay county who have consistently defied the party’s counsel and conducted themselves in a manner that undermines its standing. Read: Seven Homa Bay MCAs detained 14 days for assaulting speaker Dori and Owen Baya, who were accompanied by their colleague from Wiper Ali Mbogo, assured Raila of their commitment to working with him. They also relayed similar assurance from Aisha Jumwa who is attending parliamentary games in Burundi. The MPs appealed to the ODM party leader to use his experience in politics to guide new and younger colleagues and expressed their readiness to consult and be guided. "We assure you that we are available for regular consultation with and guidance by the party. As you may have noticed, we have slowed down on 2022 campaigns as you had advised and we remain committed to actions that strengthen rather than weaken the party," Dori said. Click here for the latest political news