National Olympic Committee of Kenya may be forced to sell the Olympic Plaza if their efforts to offset the humongous debt associated with the building fails. The incomplete property in Nairobi’s high-end office hub Upper Hill has accrued an approximately over Sh900m debt. This includes money owed to constructors, suppliers, banks and companies that had already paid for space in the building. Nock’s treasurer Anthony Kariuki intimated that federations’ chiefs have given the Olympic organization the options of either seeking investors or selling off the building altogether. “We sat with federations who mandated Nock to find people or entities to invest in the project and share proceeds. If this fails, the other option is to find a buyer,” said Kariuki. On his part, Nock’s acting secretary general, Francis Mutuku said: “Deliberations about the building and the accruing debt is at a delicate stage and there are solutions which we will share in January. Every party will walk out of the table contended. Either they will be paid in full or negotiate the terms of payment,” In the meantime, member federations have been given 14 days to scrutinise Nock’s audit report and the general state of the organisation that is currently under the leadership of Paul Tergat. Federation chiefs declined to adopt the forensic report, especially the financial section and asked for more time to engage their auditors and experts before coming up with four significant areas they want addressed. “The General Assembly has not reached a conclusion, but have resolved to engage experts at their level and make four recommendations. Nock is coming from murky situations in terms of brand, reputation and finances. This has consequently driven away partners,” said Mutuku. Addressing the media after the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday, Tergat said: “2020 is our flagship going forward and as it is now, we really need support from all stakeholders in sports. We need a more vibrant Nock board which will attract partners, and I am happy that the General Assembly is happy with what we have done and where we stand now. Sportsmen and women are the centre of our activities.”