Twalib Mbarak may end up as the second CEO at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. He is a former military intelligence officer. The National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs Committee is expected to vet him and either disapprove or recommend to President Uhuru Kenyatta to officially appoint him. The House will break for recess next Thursday, meaning that Mbarak’s vetting might be pushed to next year. The contract for the position is non-renewable. On Thursday night, the EACC recommended him as the best candidate to succeed outgoing CEO Halakhe Waqo. He was zeroed-in from the 14 candidates who had been shortlisted. Chairman Eliud Wabukala advertised the position on October 9. Waqo took over the position in the new EACC in January 2013 a year after the defunct KACC was replaced. With 34 years of experience in the military, analysts say Mbarak is best-suited to take on the war on corruption in the next six years. Mbarak was born in 1965 at Kilifi town. He joined the army in 1984 and proceeded to Malawi, where he trained as a cadet. Mbarak worked as an infantry officer in Northeastern and Lamu between 1985 and 1989. He served in the military intelligence department until 1999, and later joined the then National Security Intelligence Service. At the NSIS, Mbarak served as a senior intelligence analyst before being deployed to head the National Intelligence Academy research department He joined the then KACC in 2006, where he spearheaded the establishment of an intelligence department to fight corruption. Mbarak was in 2010 employed by KenGen as a security and integrity manager, where he is serving to date. He has been training in investigation and intelligence in various security firms in Germany, United Kingdom, South Africa and the US. For one to clinch the seat, he or she is required to have a post-graduate degree, clearance certificates from KRA, DCI, Higher Education Loans Board, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Credit Reference Bureau. Click here for the latest political news