The studious silence of Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria on the controversial remarks by David Murathe on the Uhuru succession battle is deafening. Kuria is known to be a politician who never shies from expressing his mind especially when it comes to Mt Kenya politics. Of late he has kept a surprisingly low profile and has not been seen in the company of his close ally, Deputy President William Ruto for more than three months. It is whispered that Kuria has retreated to his constituency and is working on setting a development record that will propel him to higher things in the future while avoiding partisan politics that could easily send him to the political oblivion. Does interior cabinet secretary Fred Matiang’i poses some leadership magic that make things work whenever he is assigned roles? The ruthless CS is said to have earned the dalliance of senior police officer ever since he joined the ministry of interior. The CS’s working relationship with senior cops has drastically reduced the level of crime and road carnage across the country during the festive season. With President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto both on holiday and other CSs on official vacation, Matiang’i has been spending nights traversing the country even at night to make sure Kenyans are secure. To ensure Coordination of national security apparatus, the CS has been working overnight in Nairobi and receiving briefs from all over the country. Was Jubilee party vice-chairman David Murathe forced to eat the humble pie after his corrosive tantrum against the Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 succession plan? Well, Corridors of Power is informed that the former Gatanga MP was asked by some forces to offer the DP unreserved apology over his outbursts. Murathe is said to have received a tongue-lashing on phone with accusations that he was rocking the Jubilee boat from within. The President kept mum about this incident in his televised interview from Mombasa on Friday perhaps explaining the behind-the-scenes intrigues roiling the 2022 succession battle while further swirling anxiety if Ruto really remains the favourite and automatic successor. Is Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati’s entry into the race to succeed Kisii governor James Ongwae causing political ripples in Kisii county? Well, the vocal and youthful Nairobi politician who has not publicly declared his ambitions for the seat, is already the talk of the town owing to the massive following he draws among the youth. While he has concealed his intentions by extending his weekend philanthropic tours to neighbouring Nyamira county, many opine that Arati would throw his hat in the ring for the 2022 race in Kisii county. But the shift in political alignment and re-alignment his candidature would trigger has caused panic among hopefuls setting the stage for a bruising gubernatorial race in Kisii come 2022.