Makueni county has taken a step closer to achieving Universal Health Coverage through its modern mother and child facility. The Makueni Mother and Child Hospital is an autonomous 120-bed capacity centre within the 24-acre compound of the county referral hospital stands. The Sh135 million flagship facility is equipped with modern equipment and can handle most of the problems related to reproductive health. Facilities in the new hospital include a nursery with 80 baby cots, two theatres, nine incubators, six delivery beds, ultrasound and imaging facilities, aqua birth facilities, wards for mothers and babies, laboratory and a pharmacy. The new hospital will also serve mothers and children from the four neighbouring counties of Machakos, Kitui, Kajiado and Taita Taveta. Yesterday, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta described the Makueni health facility as a milestone and expressed her satisfaction with the comprehensive range of services. “I was impressed by the level of care by the hospital staff and the broad range of specialised reproductive health service, including maternity, gynaecological and paediatric and care,” she said. Margaret said the mother and child hospital will greatly lower maternal and child deaths through timely emergency and specialised care. Governor Kivutha Kibwana, his wife Nazi and a host of other local leaders hosted the first lady in Makueni. Also present were 11 wives of other county chiefs. Margaret praised Kibwana and his leadership for prioritising the health of women and children. “I applaud the governor and the county government for reaching out to mothers and children and making maternal, neonatal and child health a priority,” she said. “The efforts by the leadership in improving healthcare will bring positive change to the lives of many families and communities.” She said the two mother and child specialised health facilities in Nakuru and Makueni were a huge statement that the county governments are ready to complement the national government in expanding to realise Universal Healthcare. President Uhuru Kenyatta is scheduled to launch the pilot UHC programme in Kisumu on Thursday next week. Kibwana said residents support the UHC and the government’s Big Four agenda. The First Lady appealed to mothers in Makueni and the neighbouring counties to take advantage of the new facility for their reproductive healthcare needs. She reiterated the important role played by health professionals, saying the success of the country’s healthcare delivery is largely dependent on the constant supply of health staff, especially nurses and community health workers. She thanked Makueni for leading in the training of community health workers. Margaret invited Kenyans to the 2019 Beyond Zero Marathon scheduled for March next year. Nazi, Health executive Andrew Mulwa and Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr also spoke. They acknowledged the milestones achieved by the First Lady through her Beyond Zero Initiative, including reduction in the rate of new HIV infections especially mother-to-child transmission. Dr Mulwa said the Beyond Zero Mobile Clinic donated by Margaret had directly served more than 60,000 residents and 7,000 women were screened for cervical cancer using services offered in the facility.