Eight unseeded Kenyan players lost in the first round as the International Tennis Federation (ITF) East Africa Junior Circuit third leg got underway yesterday at Nairobi Club. The tournament, which stretched to it’s final week, saw a large chunk of unseeded players once again fail to clear the first hurdle despite enjoying the home support. A similar scenario was witnessed in the first and second leg of the event, where 10 and 11 players fell at the first hurdle. Billed as the future of Kenyan tennis, Derrick Ominde failed to live up to the billing as well as advance to the second round as he lost 7-5,6-2 to Fabrice Tuyishime of Rwanda in a hotly contested match. The burly Ominde was joined by compatriots Mwendwa Mutuku, who succumbed 6-2,6-2 to Rishikrishna Ayyappan of India as Brian Madegwa suffered heavily at the hands of Nils Udvardi of Germany, losing 6-0, 6-1. Brandon Sagala was also on the receiving end of whips as he was humbled 6-2,6-1 by Emin Keskin of Netherlands. In the girls category, Cynthia Wanjala bid to sail to the second round was dealt a blow as she gallantly lost 6-3,5-7,6-1 while Esther Wahome succumbed to 6-3,6-2 against Emma Karlsson of Sweden. Roselida Asumwa bitterly lost 6-4,4-6, 6-3 to Sara Kasahune of Ethiopia as Gabriella Miheso was dispatched 6-1, 6-0 by Malika Ramasawmy of Mauritius. However, the Kenyan duo of Keen Shah and Alicia Owegi prevailed to the second round in their matches. Shah saw off Ziad Aboufirassi of Canada 6-1,6-2 while Owegi easily beat Clenua Niyonshima of Rwanda in sets of 6-0 and 6-1. Kenyan-born Great Britain’s Jayson Mbogoro won 6-4,6-1 against Berton Karenzi of Rwanda. The trio of Albert Njogu, Ryan Randiek and Sneha Kotecha, who were handed byes courtesy of their ranks globally, are expected on court today for their second round matches. Eighth seed Randiek is set to play Ethiopian Yabets Kebede after the latter won his first round match with similar sets of 6-2 against Frank Jonker of Netherlands. Third seeded Njogu will tackle Max Flaherty of Australia who won his opener 6-3,6-1 over Emmanuel Ishimwe of Rwanda.