Five top Kenya Pipeline Company managers have denied three counts relating to the loss of Sh1.9b in the construction of the Kisumu Oil Jetty. They are Joe Sang (Managing Director), Gloria Khafafa (company secretary), Vincent Cheruiyot (GM supply chain management), Billy Aseka (general manager infrastructure) and Nicholas Gitobu (procurement manager). The four were charged with abuse of office, engaging in a project without prior planning and willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to the management of public funds. They denied the charges before chief magistrate Douglas Ongoti at the Milimani Law Courts on Monday. According to the charge sheet, between July 1, 2016, and June 30, 2017, being persons whose functions concern the management of public property engaged in the construction of the Kisumu unplanned project. The charges read as follows: Sang Between April 5, and May 31, 2017, being the MD, he used his office to improperly confer a benefit to southern engineering company limited by awarding the tender for the construction of the Oil Jetty. He was also charged with the willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to the management of public funds. From June 31, 2016, to date, Sang willfully failed to comply with the public finance management act by unlawfully authorising payment of 1.9 billion for the construction. Khafafa "Between May 1, and 31, 2017, you used your office to improperly confer a benefit to Southern Engineering Company Limited by executing a contract in respect of tender for the construction of the Jetty at a cost of 1.9b that exceeded the approved budget". Cheruiyot He was charged with abuse of office. "That on April 3, 2017, you used your office to improperly confer a benefit to Southern Engineering Company Limited by arbitrarily providing a professional opinion leading to the award of tender for the Jetty at the same cost". Aseka "On or about October 5, 2017, you used your office to improperly requisition for the construction of Kisumu oil jetty after tendering process had already been completed an arbitrary act prejudicial to the right of the government of Kenya." Gitobu "On January 17, 2017, you used your office to improperly initiate the procurement process of the construction of KIsumu Oil Jetty without a procurement plan." Last week, the DCI detectives arrested Sang and top other managers over corruption. The arrests started last week after the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji approved various charges against them. Read;Joe Sang opts to leave Kenya Pipeline as Sh1 billion probe starts