Deputy President William Ruto has urged civil servants to do their work without fear, adding no one will be victimised in the ongoing war on graft. “Civil servants should do their work well and without any fear as no one will victimise them. The ongoing fight against corruption only targets those responsible for the vice,” he said. Ruto spoke at Lelboinet Boys High School in Elgeyo Marakwet county on Friday. The Deputy President said the war on corruption is a collective responsibility and urged all Kenyans to participate. The Deputy President, at the same time, told leaders not to politicise the war against corruption. Ruto was accompanied by governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), MPs Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Daniel Rono (Keiyo South) and Turkana Woman Rep Joyce Emanikor, Principal Secretaries Susan Koech (EAC) and Chris Kiptoo (Trade). The DP asked the EACC, Directorate of Criminal Investigations, DPP and the Judiciary to carry out their duties without fear of blackmail and devoid of mechanisms that could undermine their work. “Prosecutions and investigations are not political. Such mandates are clear. We should therefore not politicise institutions dealing with prosecutions. They should be left to operate independently without any partisan or regional interests,” Ruto said. “Courts must also be left to make decisions on the basis of law and justice so as not to undermine the country’s democracy and the way the public are being served.”  Ruto asked leaders to be at the forefront in helping the people engage in income-generating activities aimed at improving their lives. He urged residents to diversify their farming activities instead of relying on one crop. “As leaders, we should help our people engage in crops such as tea, macadamia, coffee among others that they can sell so as to improve their lives,” Ruto said. Onyonka urged Rift Valley leaders to rally behind the leadership of the Deputy President. “I will be the chairman of those who will campaign for Ruto’s presidential bid in 2022 across the country,” he said. Earlier, the Deputy President said the government would continue to support the Jua Kali sector to align its activities to the Big Four agenda and create more jobs for the youth. Ruto said efforts were being made to ensure the sector gets access to the East Africa Community (EAC) markets and Africa’s Continental Free Trade area. “We have already demonstrated as government that this is an important sector. The formation of Micro and Small Enterprise Authority (MSEA) is our commitment to mainstream and formalise the activities of this sector into our industrialisation programmes,” he said. The Deputy President spoke at the EAC Jua Kali-Nguvu Kazi exhibition at Eldoret Sports Club in Uasin Gishu county. Ruto also said the government has reviewed how Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) would be examining certificate candidates to incorporate skilled individuals in the Jua Kali sector. He said TVETs would conduct examinations based on the practical skills required for the qualification of the certificates that the Jua Kali people seek to possess to help them secure jobs. “We have given firm instructions to the TVET Authority and the Technical Qualification Framework Authority now have the mandate to carry out exams in whatever language as long as the candidates have the requisite skills and competence to be examined,” Ruto said. The Deputy President asked investors to take advantage of the opportunities available in the Jua Kali sector. Kiptoo said the government is committed to securing international markets for local products. Tolgos called for value addition in the Jua Kali sector to earn Kenyans more money. Mandago asked Kenyans to embrace locally produced goods and shun the culture of importing products that can be made by Kenyans in the Jua Kali industry. He said the Jua Kali sector has employed many youth and reduced the unemployment rate in the country. The governor appealed to parents to enroll their children in TVET institutions to acquire skills and competencies that can enable them become job creators. Click here for the latest political news