Twenty-two people have been arrested in connection with the conflicts experienced in parts of Ololoiang’i, Oloriasi and Nkoben areas in Narok South Sub County. Narok commissioner George Natembeya said among the arrested is Nkoben Assistant Chief Jacob Kioko who was caught assisting in transporting crude weapons to the battle zone. “We realised that those fighting were gathered at Kapcol Camp where they were planning conflicts. When our officers invaded the camp, they found tens of bows and arrows, spears, pangas and knives that were to be used for war,” said Natembeya. The County Security boss who spoke to journalists in his office said those who suffered injuries will be forced to record statements in their hospital beds to explain what they knew about the clashes. “We suspect that the injured were part of the chaos, they will be forced to record statement on what they know about the skirmishes. We expect them to give information that will help in ending conflicts in that region,” said Natembeya. Read: One killed, five injured in renewed clashes in Narok South Among the people injured, Natembeya said is a Kenya Forest Service Officer (KFS) who sustained arrow shots and is currently admitted at Narok referral Hospital. Earlier on, there were rumours on the ground that those evicted from the Maasai Mau Forest would be compensated but Natembeya was quick to state that no single individual evicted from the forest would be compensated. The clashes that began over the weekend has seen a 25-year-old man killed, 15 injured and tens of houses burnt in the inter-community war. “The 15 injured suffered arrow wounds and are receiving treatment at the Narok Referral hospital, while the man who died on Saturday night was shot with a short gun on the back and died on the spot,” said Natembeya. However, Natembeya confirmed that peace was slowly returning to the area after a contingent of security officers drawn from Administration Police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service and Regular police was deployed in the area to restore calm. Also read: Nine arrested as Narok clashes probe narrowed to financiers Click here for the latest political news