Twitter is bringing back the chronological timeline for good. Earlier this year, the social media giant began testing a button that let users toggle between viewing the newest tweets first and seeing the top tweets first. Now, Twitter is making the button a permanent feature for all users on its app. The button is only available on the iOS app, but will roll out for Android users soon. Users can also switch between the two feed types if they browsing Twitter via the desktop website. Now, in the upper right corner of the Twitter app, users can click on the sparkle icon to toggle between a reverse-chronological feed and an algorithmic feed. Users click on the button that says 'See the latest tweets first' to have a reverse-chronological feed. They can switch back to top tweets at any time by clicking the sparkle icon and selecting the same button. The app is able to pick up on users' habits so that if it detects that they are often selecting a chronological feed, it will default to that setting moving forward. In the past, Twitter would automatically switch users back to an algorithmic feed as they browsed the app, which led to a lot of complaints from users. Keith Colman, Twitter's product lead, explained in a Twitter thread why the firm decided to roll out the button. 'It's our job to help you see the tweets that matter most to you, and we want your timeline to keep you informed about relevant conversations happening on Twitter,' Coleman said. 'The Home timeline seeks to do this, but we know it doesn’t always get it right. 'It’s sometimes helpful to see just the very latest Tweets—like during live sports or if news is breaking. 'So a few weeks ago, we began testing a new way to see just the latest,' Coleman added. Coleman said users who participated in tests of the button told the firm that switching back to a chronological feed led to them participating in more conversations. Users also said they 'enjoyed Twitter more' when given the option to switch between seeing top tweets and chronological tweets first. Before the button, users had to go to their Settings to switch between the two types of timelines. Users had long urged Twitter to bring back the chronological timeline after an algorithmic timeline was made the standard on the app in 2016. 'There are some times when rankings are good, because they help you catch up and get a summary of what’s going on,' Coleman told Slate. 'There are other times where the [ranked] home timeline isn’t the best. 'Let’s say it’s Election Night. You’re caught up on what’s been going on, and you just want to see what the latest is,' he added. Twitter said it plans to roll out more personalization features for users in 2019. Click here for the latest political news