Kenya sevens strength and conditioning coach Mike Shamiah said the team is focusing on speed and endurance as they bid to get back in shape before the resumption of the world series next month. Shamiah, who has had three training sessions with the side, said the players are currently operating at 50 per cent but believes they will be good to go when the series resume in Hamilton and Sydney next month. “I think the boys are improving with each training session and by the next two tournaments, they will be in a better position,” Shamiah observed. Strength and conditioning, kickoffs and defence were the biggest talking points after the team’s shambolic start to the season in Dubai and Cape Town and head coach Paul Murunga said they are addressing those issues as the clock ticks towards the New Year. “Our time is limited with the turn around time for the next two tournaments. We can’t even do strength training because time is not on our side but we can improve our speed, endurance and agility which will help improve our performances,” noted Murunga. Murunga was non-committal on whether senior players will resume following their contractual standoff with the union. The four players, talisman Collins Injera, former skipper Andrew Amonde, Willy Ambaka and Sammy Oliech have not resumed training with the side and Murunga said its up to them to work out a solution with the Union over the contracts. “I will pick players who are available and are training and I believe the current crop of players can deliver,” said Murunga. Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela said they can only pay what they have. “At the moment, we are speaking to several sponsors and hopefully by March, we will have a new sponsor on board,” added Omwela. Senior players have refused to sign contracts presented to them by the Union, terming them inferior to what they were earning last season and have refused to show up for training, complicating matters further for Murunga. Kenya face South Africa, Scotland and France in Hamilton next month. Shujaa are placed 14th with just four points from two tournaments.