Kilifi residents have called on Governor Amason Kingi to lift the ban on 'disco matanga'. The residents said the ban has turned into a cash cow for police officers who demand up to Sh10,000 per night to allow disco owners operate at night. Speaking to the Star on Saturday in Kilifi, some residents claimed the enforcement is done selectively. Ganze Sauti ya Wanawake chairlady Judith Uchi said the discos are still operating under the watch of police officers who are sabotaging the move by the county government to curb early pregnancies. “There is no need of having a ban which is not being enforced. It is as if the ban was meant for the poor class and not everyone who owns the equipment. If there is no law to regulate the ban then the ban should be called off. Why should people have their equipment confiscated then be forced to give the police money to get them back?” Uchi asked. She added: "If the ban was meant to be then it should work for everyone regardless of your status in the society. But not scenarios where police go and confiscate equipment at a certain homestead and at the same time the disco is playing in the neighborhood." Uchi said most girls are still at risk of becoming pregnant since they still move at night. A chief who sought anonymity said despite the fight against 'disco matanga' being successful in some areas, police have become the main challenge. “We are getting many challenges as chiefs because we have the first hand information on where the discos are operating but we are getting challenges with our police because they are colluding with some senior officers in the government who own the machines. At times the officer will pick the call and tell you that the disco is not loud and should be left to entertain mourners. We have even tried to raise concerns with our deputy county commissioner but he is not getting the support,” said the chief. A senior police officer said that enforcing the ban is a challenge as most of the disco machines belong to police and KDF officers. Kilifi county commissioner Magu Mutindika said he is investigating the claims. “I was asking myself why despite all the efforts we put disco matanga is still on and I came to learn that most of them are owned by administration police, regular police, KDF and prison officers. it is only KWS officer that was not found possessing one. But eight out of 10 cases we have handled belongs to police officers,” he said. Ganze OCPD Patrick Ngeiywa dismissed allegations that police are being bribed to allow disco matanga and blamed chiefs for laxity and giving out information late. “Chiefs send us text messages at 10pm which is late, does it mean that they were not aware that the family would hold disco matanga because the instruments always come early before even the body arrives from the mortuary? They want to set us up to the public and that is why they want us to go when the place is overcrowded and people are drunk .They are happy when there is commotion. At times we receive three alerts from different chiefs at different areas and we have not organized for officers by this time,” said Ngeiywa.