The Catholic church has asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to probe the murder of Father Joseph Njoroge of Kinoo parish in Kiambu county. Four men on motorbikes blocked his way on a rough road on Monday, forcing him to stop his car. They shot him thorugh the windscreen and sped off with a bag containing Sunday’s offering. He was reportedly driving from the church to KCB in Kikuyu town, near the junction with the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. At a mass on Wednesday, church leaders revealed that Njoroge had been seeking advice from other priests, saying individuals were harassing him. He did not disclose the names or the issues. Father Patrick Ndung’u told worshippers at St Peter’s Catholic church, the headquarters of Kinoo parish, that priests used to encourage Father Njoroge that things would be better. “We cannot all agree that the priest was killed by thugs who wanted to steal the Sunday’s collection. How much is it? is that the cost of someone’s life?” Ndung’u asked. Without explaining much from the pulpit, Ndung’u urged members to support church leaders and not to frustrate them. Ndung’u said though the church is ready to forgive, the DCI and all other investigating bodies should do their work properly and establish the motive of his murder. Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu said the murder was a serious issue. He asked Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to intensify patrols in the area. “We don’t want to hear about robbery, murder and houses being broken into. We are headed to Christmas. We want the killers of the priest arrested as quickly as possible,” Waititu said. Ndung’u was speaking on behalf of other Catholic fathers at the Mass to give condolences to family and friends. The clergy then led a prayer procession from the church to where the priest was shot, prayeda and left flowers at the scene. Kinoo MCA Kimani wa Wanjiku described Njoroge as understanding, a good listener, prayerful, a teacher and a humble church leader. The MCA said they worked together and the priest had welcomed his proposal to hold a prayer for the ward due to increasing violence. “We have lost an important person who had touched people’s lives,” the MCA said. Father Njoroge will be buried on Monday at St Mary’s Msongari.