Over 200,000 Kenyans risk losing their jobs if the government phases out the 14 seater public service vehicles. In documents filed in court, 24 Matatu saccos say the licensing of the 14 seaters has been ongoing but the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) has now insisted on not issuing fresh licenses. Through Lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui, the sacco’s say that following NTSA publication Legal Notice 179 of 31 December that all the PSVS below 25 seater capacity would not be licensed for Road Service Licenses, the President issued a directive that the decision be stopped. They say the same government now want to phase the 14 seater yet the declaration by the President still remains in force. “The Government is in one breath trumping up its employment generation measures to the citizens to eliminate poverty and when petitioners take up the gauntlet to create employment by getting the 14 seaters PSV vans..” They also claim that NTSA is now unlawfully demanding of their PSV’s having a passenger capacity of below 25 passengers to be painted with a continuous yellow band allegedly in conformity with the Michuki Rules as a precondition to being issued with any road service licenses. But according to them, the Michuki rules are not legally available for enforcement. They say a decision by Judge Jackton Ojwang’ on March 2005, the Michuki rules were quashed and no appeal was lodged against the said decision by the then Minister for Transport nor has the said decision been set aside. “Michuki Rules do not exist as they were quashed. The rules are therefore not legally available for enforcement,” they say They now want an order prohibiting the National Transport and Safety Authority, Inspector General of Police, CS Interior, CS Transport, Traffic Commandant, Kenya Bureau of Standards from demanding they comply with the popularly called ‘Michuki rules’. Also sought is an order to stop any further implementation of the BRT program until there is a legislative framework. “The said marking designated for the ‘BRT’ buses has no location in the existing traffic rules in the traffic act and the Regional Metropolitan Transport Limited cannot bind us to any commitments it may make with the NTSA or CS Transport James Macharia,” they say The sacco’s also seek an order compelling the Kenya Bureau of Standards to ensure that any and all safety belts for fitting in PSV’s imported into Kenya or produced within Kenya meet all safety and fitting standards.