Most elderly people die from non-communicable diseases due to lack of adequate plans to safeguard their health, according to a new report. The Global Age Watch report released by HelpAge International and AAR in Nairobi on Wednesday shows there has been an increase in NCDs among the elderly. The report says NCD deaths reached 44.5 per cent among those aged 50 to 69, and 51.2 per cent among those aged 70 and above in 2015. The Ministry of Health says 55 per cent of admissions of elderly people are for NCDs. The report focused on old people’s right to health and how systems need to adapt to ensure the elderly enjoy their rights. It explored national trends on older people’s health status in 12 countries, including Kenya. Speaking during the launch, country programme coordinator Erastus Maina said HelpAge has helped the government to carry out health programmes for older people and strengthen services. They train health workers and develop curriculum. The group also builds on existing experience. HelpAge focuses on promoting the well-being of patients and not addressing particular diseases in isolation. ”The inadequate response to older people’s healthcare needs is driven, in part, by a lack of data on their health needs. There is need to address all the diseases without Isolation,” Maina said. HelpAge CEO Justin Derbyshire said it was important to safeguard older people’s right to health without discriminating against their well-being. “This year, as we celebrate the 70th anniversaries of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the founding of the World Health Organization, it is significant that older people are not left behind,” Derbyshire said. “Older people have the right to health, but they are not being counted in key data, meaning health services are not being adapted to meet their needs.” He said health systems in low and middle-income countries were facing serious challenges. “The global drive towards universal health coverage is an opportunity to improve and meet the Sustainable Development Goals by ensuring healthy lives and well-being for all at all ages,” Derbyshire said.