A brace from Samuel Onyango inspired Kenyan champions Gor Mahia to a 3-1 win over Nigerian outfit, Lobi Stars in the first round of the Caf Champions League yesterday at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The match marked Hassan Oktay’s second win since his appointment as the club’s new head coach having began his tenure with a comfortable 4-0 win over Zoo Kericho in a midweek clash. A returning Francis Kahata would have put Gor ahead barely seconds into the match after Onyango found him unmarked with a well executed chip in the box but the playmaker would rue his diminutiveness as he missed the header to the relief of the exposed goalkeeper Ospina Egbe. Kahata had missed the tournament’s preliminary round double against Malawi’s Nyasa Big Bullets as he sought permission to complete negotiations with a possible move to North Africa. Gor seemed on a mission to get early goals as Jacques Tuyisenge and Francis Mustafa pressed the Nigerian rear which despite enjoying a physical might succumbed to pressure. The quest for the opener by the home team bore fruits in the sixth minute of the match as Tuyisenge was put through by Kahata unleashing half a volley which sailed past Egbe to announce his return from injury in the best way possible. Gor continued with their onslaught and in the 22nd minute Onyango capitalised on a goal melee in the Stars box,rose high to superbly net a bicycle kick to double Gor’s lead. Lobi were forced to an early in the 24th minute with centre half Umar Zango limping off with a muscle setback and his place taken by Austine Ogunye. Six minutes later,Lobi’s Kadiri Timileyin halved the deficit for his side rising high to nod home a corner kick delivered by Samuel Mathias. However their joy only lasted for three minutes as Onyango made good use of his pace sprinting unmarked in Lobi’s half a move which forced Egbe to advance in a bid to stop him but the former Ulinzi Stars man dribbled past him and two defenders who had reverted to complete his brace in an empty net. The two sides rattled each other till halftime where the Kenyan champions broke for the breather shoulders high. Lobi resumed for the final half firing from all cylinders but could not go past Gor’s defence which thwarted all attempts till the final whistle to reap a two goal advantage heading to the return match slated for 22nd of this match. Lobi’s head coach Solomon Ogbeide attributed the loss to a lapse in concentration by his defence and vowed to ring changes before the return leg. “That’s football we have to look where we went wrong and make corrections.A lapse of concentration by my defenders allowed quick goals and we will make adjustments before the return match.We are hopeful for a good result in our return match.” His Gor counterpart Oktay expressed pleasure with the win. “Its a good result I am pleased with it we had chances and I think we would have won by a bigger margin. We tried to lock the midfield in the second half to and ended having a better second half.”