Kariobangi Sharks will be buoyed by the return of Sydney Simale when they play Asante Kotoko of Ghana in the Caf Confederations Cup return match tomorrow in Kumasi. The rookie returned to the squad that checked out yesterday after spending the past three weeks on the sidelines and he is expected to partner with George Abege as the Kenyan side seek an away win or a scoring draw to advance to the playoff. Sharks played the 23-time Ghanaian champions to a barren draw in the first leg at Moi Stadium, Kasarani last weekend and will be gunning for at least a scoring draw which will guarantee them a place in the playoff which will pit them against the best loser of the Champions League. Sharks coach William Muluya will be glad to have Simale back to his side after missing his services in the first leg and hope the national Under-20 and 23 striker will have regained his scoring form to drown the two time champions league holders. Speaking after their 2-0 triumph over Sony Sugar in mid-week SportPesa Premier League, Muluya couldn’t contain his joy for having the striker back and expressed optimism in reaping an away win. “It’s good to have Simale back ahead of the tie as he gives us options. He has been enjoying good form before the injury set-back. I am confident of an away win of any margin.” While naming the 18-man squad, Muluya excluded experienced goalkeeper John Oyemba who is battling to regain match fitness after months of back injury. The Harambee Stars trialist is yet to start a competitive match this season and in his absence, Muluya will opt for either Gad Mathews or Brian Bwire with the latter being preferred courtesy of his experience with Stars and the U-23. At the same time, combative U-23 midfielder Sven Yidah will make his return to continentals after missing the previous encounters while nursing a knee injury. The club will once again have to do without the services of their skipper Erick Juma who is recovering from a toe injury and he will be deputised by Patillah Omoto and Geoffrey Shiveka. Squad—Goalkeepers: Brian Bwire, Gad Mathews; Defenders: Geoffrey Lemu, Tom Teka, Michael Bodo, John Kuol, Nickson Omondi; Midfielders: Fidel Origa, Vincent Wasambo, Sven Yidah, Patillah Omoto, Duke Abuya, Harrison Mwendwa, James Mazembe; Strikers: Henry Juma, Moses Mwangi, George Abege, Sidney Lokale.