Impala Saracens and Kabras will put their unbeaten records on the line when the Kenya cup enters Match Day 5 today. The two sides, who have a one hundred percent record, face off at the Kakamega showground from 4 pm. The two sides won their opening four fixtures in contrasting fashion. Kabras picked up bonus points in all their four wins crushing Mean machine 41-0 , Blak Blad 37-10, Nakuru 50-8 and Strathmore Leos 62-13 last weekend. However, the Sarries have to do it the hard way with narrow wins over Blak Blad (18-150, Nakuru (26-22), Strathmore Leos (16-9) and Mean Machine (22-19). Leaders Kabras have 20 points while Impala are second with 17points . The Ngong Road side have won just once in their five visits to Western Kenya (15-10 in the Enterprise Cup semifinal last season). Kabras coach Henley Du Plessis expects a stern test from Impala. “It will be a tough game. It’s our first big test of the season and we want to keep the momentum going from our good start,” said Du Plessis. The South African tactician will rely on robust pack which will have Uganda cranes skipper Asman Mugerwa, Geoff Shitambasi, Dan Sikuta and South African Claude Johannes in the forwards. Kenya sevens Brian Tanga and Kevin Keegan are the half back pairing with the experienced Nick Barasa in midfield alongside Fabian Olando with Phillip Wokorach at fullback. Impala will have to raise the physicality and intensity if they are to match the sugarmillers. Head coach Frank Ndong will go for a mobile pack that will have Joshua Matasi, Kelvin Ronoh, Davis Makori and the evergreen Duncan Ekasi at number eight with Simbas’ scrumhalf Samson Onsomu, Mark Kwemoi and Vincent Mose pulling the strings in the backs. Rivals Quins and Nondies face off at the Lions Den in Ruaraka in a match that will be televised Live on Bamba Sports from 2pm. The two sides lost last weekend with Quins losing 22-13 to KCB as Nondies lost their unbeaten record to Mwamba in a 13-12 defeat. KCB wild be seeking to keep tabs on Kabras and Impala as they host Homeboyz at 4pm. Other fixtures will see Mwamba host Menengai Oilers, Blak Blad entertain winless Strathmore in a university derby as Nakuru face Mean Machine.