Kenya’s civil
service is modelled on the Max Weber’s theory of bureaucracy. However each
country develops its civil service on the basis of its historical orientation
and existing environmental circumstances. It is for this reason that our civil
service mirrors closely the British public service. And the discussion
on the civil service is today crucial for Kenya, as it grapples with
development agenda that is innovative and globally oriented. President Uhuru
Kenyatta launched the Big Four agenda for his legacy. The Building Bridges
Initiative of the handshake with Raila Odinga has buttressed this vision. Then
there is the emergence of the blue economy as the next frontier for global
engagement. These modern development approaches require a highly resourceful
civil service to deliver. Bureaucracy is the hand of the executive arm of
government that translates the manifesto to policy programmes. It delivers
public service on behalf of the ruling political class.  BUREUCRACY Bureaucracy is an
organisational structure characterised by open rules, standardised procedures
and processes. It exhibits meticulous division of labour and clear hierarchy of
leadership.  It is marked by high
professionalism as its hallmark and relationships and interaction among
employees are impersonal. A civil service is, therefore, expected to be
specialised, with processes designed to maintain uniformity and controls. The highlight of
bureaucracy is principally to promote efficiency in resource utilisation and effectiveness
in service delivery. This is how developed countries such as Germany have
practiced and largely benefited from the thesis of Max Weber (1864-1920) who
was himself a German.  Automation and
heavy use of technology in data management has become integral part of
successful bureaucracies.  FACTORS
UNDERMINING CIVIL SERVICE EFFECTIVENESS Some factors
have, however, combined to undermine the effectiveness of Kenya’s civil service
in the delivery of its mandate over the years. Kenyans have, therefore, not
reaped the full benefits of the public service, which is entirely reliant on taxpayers’
funds. The first hindrance is in the historical orientation of the civil
service. As currently
constituted, it was inherited from the colonial government in 1963. The
structure was designed to be exploitative and exclusive from the masses. It was
intended to be pliant to the settler community and hostile to the African
population. Mwananchi thus still views
the public service office as a place to serve the elite of the society and not
the masses. They loathe visiting public offices and always succumb to demands
for bribes out of fear. Attempts that were made to Africanise the public
service only scratched the surface by replacing the departing mzungu with an elite African. No significant
efforts were made to restructure the service and remodel it to local
conditions. It, therefore, undermined the independence dream of national unity
as it entrenched social stratification. The local bureaucrats maintained
patron-clientele relationships with the departing colonial officials. These
relationships continued to serve and entrench the neocolonial interests within
the civil service instead of national development. The pioneer civil service
mandarins conspired to design development policies that generally
disenfranchised the local population from the mainstream economic activities.
The Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1965 established the official framework for
economic marginalisation of majority of Kenyans. On the other hand, the
Sessional Paper No. 10 of 1985 of District Focus for Rural Development,
provided the opportunity for grand theft of public funds from local citizens by
civil servants. The civil service was thus oriented not to serve but subjugate
the citizens. It has been
argued that the independence dream was hijacked by some conspiratorial elements
and turned into a nightmare for the ordinary Kenyans. These elements pushed the
agenda of supremacy of some communities through tribal bigotry. Tribalism soon
found its fodder within the ranks and file of the civil service. As the political
class mobilised populations for power, they roped in uncouth public servants in
their quest. Naturally and as a consequence, tribalism in the public service
begot and nurtured nepotism. This greatly undermined professionalism, which is
the hallmark of bureaucracy. Ethical and professional conduct of business in
the civil service has, therefore, been sacrificed at the altar of political
patronage. Senior civil servants are recruited and appointed more on the basis
of closeness to the powers that be than competence. Commitment to national and
public good is swapped with loyalty to tribe and parochial interests. Tribal
bastions are then established within the corridors of public service and these
grossly affect the effectiveness of civil servants to perform. Those civil
servants — who do not belong to the bastions — are always sidestepped in
carrier progression and sidelined in strategic postings.  On a smaller scale, reverse tribalism has also
been at play. Some highly
qualified Kenyans have missed executive public appointments simply because
their relations already occupied senior positions in the same or related
organisations. They are denied opportunity to serve their motherland in a bid
to comply with requirements of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission.
The net effect is lethargy and lack of initiative. The other factor
affecting the civil service is poor remuneration. Public servants
in Kenya have a history of receiving some of the lowest pay package
comparatively and demotivating terms of service. They get lower basic salaries
and poor housing allowances compared to their contemporaries in the private
sector. Where the government
offers housing, the conditions are deplorable and allocation skewed. The
facilities are insufficient and sometimes end up in private hands. The public
health system is all but collapsed. This leaves a civil servant destabilised
psychologically in the face of ill health. To compound the suffering, the
public transport infrastructure is chaotic, relying on the matatu industry,
which has a regular cycle of disruption. All these factors conspire to deny the
civil service of the best that may be in the labour market. The public
service therefore finds itself largely saddled with inept workers. They lack
top notch academic and practical skills. They also do not access the necessary
exposure to gain the relevant experience. The service therefore lacks capacity,
despite being bloated. Lack of
appropriate and responsive terms of service led to the loss of some brilliant pioneers
in the service such as Kenneth Matiba and John Michuki to the private sector.
In retrospect, they should have stayed put and leveraged their positions of
influence to establish better working conditions for public servants.  NDEGWA
COMMISSION Sometime in the
early 1970s, the government sought to address the poor terms of service for
civil servants by encouraging them to engage in business. The Ndegwa Commission
recommended among others, that civil servants would be given priority in
government businesses. This opened the gateway to corruption. Staff openly and
officially engaged in business with their employer, the government. The authors of
this retrogressive policy forgot that they gave state workers free opportunity
to infinitely influence the government procurement process. Civil servants thus
established networks to skim off public resources from the tendering to payment
stage. Instead of devoting efforts to serve the public, inordinate hours are
spent fidgeting with tender documents and chasing
payment vouchers. Networks with
political players became cartels for protection purposes against the criminal
justice system. They share crucial information and facilitate processing of the
proceeds of economic crimes. These activities grossly undermine the
effectiveness of the civil service, compromise development and erode public
confidence in public institutions. Corruption has
since become a national catastrophe and is one of the key issues the Building
Bridges Initiative seeks to address. On many occasions, accounting and
procurement officers have been suspended to scuttle corruption networks in
government circles. Recently, programmes have been initiated to reform the
civil service and make it responsive to government development policies.
However, these programmes will not bear positive and long-lasting effects if
critical factors are taken into consideration. The programmes should be holistic,
visionary and futuristic but not geared towards short term political agenda. It is these
reforms that will rejuvenate the civil service to make it inspired, motivated
and capable of delivering the government agenda and be committed to the public
good.  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst