Some senior Jubilee politicians are wary of some proposals being pushed by Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. The no-nonsense DPP is pushing for the tightening of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act to seal loose ends. He wants it made mandatory that once charged for graft, a suspect is forced to step aside irrespective of the office they hold. If cleared, the suspect would be paid a lump sum. The politicians were heard whispering that the provision could be abused to get some of them out of office. They said the changes could be used to lock out a number of high-flying politicians in 2022. ***** Corridors has learnt that reports claiming Deputy President William Ruto is grooming Education CS Amina Mohamed to inherit the Kakamega governor seat currently held by Wycliffe Oparanya is not going down well with former Senator Boni Khalwale, who is also from the county. Those also desperate for Ruto’s support are having sleepless nights fearing that Amina’s influential docket would work to her advantage as she makes inroads into the region. Our mole told Corridors that those interested in the seat had banked on Ruto’s direct support. ***** Despite the government ban on double registration of KCPE examination centres, a mixed boarding primary school situated along the Kisii-Migori highway needs to serve as a lesson to other rogue institutions. The school, which has an annex in Kisii town, is said to have irregularly transferred some of its star candidates from the main institution to allegedly boost the fledgling branch. The management transferred the pupils to the annex without parents knowledge. The parents were shocked when they could not find their children when they went to pick them from school after tests. The explanation given by management that they were moved to the annex because of better facilities was not convincing. **** Still on matters TSC, a senior employee of the commission at the headquarters should be probed. The official at the HR department has been making millions of shillings from desperate teachers seeking promotions. The man who accesses crucial personal information on teachers because of his position has been calling teachers who have completed further studies and asking them for money to move them to the next superior job group with higher perks. The Corridors of Power is informed that the official charges between Sh50,000 and Sh100,000 for P1 teachers who have graduated recently with bachelor’s degrees but have not benefited from enhanced perks after the TSC put on hold such plans. Click here for
the latest political news