The speeches by Jubilee's David Murathe, Cotu's Francis Atwoli and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi bear the ugly undertones of tribal animosity, negative ethnicity, unnecessary fights and division of this country. This is happening when the country is more united than before under President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The utterances are insignificant and do not hold water and they are spouted by people who are trying to resurrect their own political careers. They are trying to be politically relevant; they are political con men who do not have space in this country. I want to say that those are unfortunate remarks coming from a private citizen in this country because Jubilee was built as a party and a government. the agenda of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto has been to bring about a country that is more united living in tribal harmony. It is very sad that most presidential aspirants of 2022 succession politics need to gain relevance by attacking Deputy President William Ruto. The Jubilee government is more concentrated on the development agenda of the President and we don't want to be distracted. The aspirants to the presidential seat are in a panic mode because William Ruto is way ahead of all others The DP has insisted before that there is no political debt from anybody. Where we sit as Jubilee legislators, Murathe and his political con men are seated somewhere and strategising on how to disparage Jubilee. These are the same people who have tried to create a narrative to paint the DP in a bad light because they have realised they cannot and on an equal basis and sell to Kenyans a development agenda the way the DP and the President have tried since 2013. Murathe did not speak on his own — he was sent. He is someone's 'dog' like Francis Atwoli, for whom they speak. And I think if anybody wants to run for the presidency in 2022, they should avoid attacking DP to be relevant. Instead, they should sell their agenda to the people and from where we will sit in 2022, the DP and the President will have walked closely together. The Nandi Senator spoke to the Star     