The Russian Federation is seriously
concerned about Ukraine’s continued attempts to aggravate the situation in the
Sea of Azov. The latest act of fomenting tensions between Russia and Ukraine is
hindering the restoration of bilateral relations and contradicts regional and
international security interests. Russia regrets that Kiev’s confrontational policy of
destabilising Russian-Ukrainian relations has been supported by some countries,
including EU members. Russia roundly rejects any accusations of aggressive or
illegal actions in the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait. Since their
reunification with Russia, the Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol
have been an integral part of the Russian Federation, which exercises its
sovereignty, sovereign rights and jurisdiction in the maritime areas adjoining
the Crimean Peninsula in accordance with international law. Russia’s actions
over there are consistent with international law, intended to protect its
national security, and proportionate to the extremist threats to Russia,
including the threats from Ukraine. The Sea of Azov is the internal waters of Russia and
Ukraine, where only Russian and Ukrainian vessels enjoy the freedom of
navigation. The Kerch Strait is not and has never been an international
waterway as per the spirit of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (1982). Therefore,
any claims concerning the right of transit or innocent passage for foreign
vessels are inapplicable in the strait. The inspections of vessels conducted by the Coast Guard of
the FSB Border Service in the Sea of Azov and the Kerch Strait are legitimate
and justified. The increase in the number of these inspections since April is
due to the need to tighten security in the Kerch Strait, following the opening
of the first stage of the Crimean Bridge, rather than to the desire to put
political or economic pressure to bear on Ukraine, as per an interpretation
presented by Kiev, Washington and Brussels. The Russian Coast Guard’s actions are not discriminatory: Forty-eight
per cent of the vessels they inspected between April and October, or 720 out of
1,492 vessels, were transiting to or from Russian ports. Contrary to what
Ukraine says, the Russian Coast Guard also inspects ships flying the Russian
flag. The overwhelming majority of inspections – 93 per cent –
are conducted at the anchoring grounds located near the entrance to the Kerch
Strait from the Black Sea or the Sea of Azov at the time, when sea convoys are
formed for transiting the Kerch-Yenikale Canal. As a rule, these inspections do
not exceed three hours. Any possible loss of time is due to the specific
procedure for sailing via the Kerch-Yenikale Canal, its size and complicated
hydrometeorological and navigation conditions. Vessels are rarely stopped for
inspection in the Sea of Azov and then only for compelling reasons. Contrary to statements made in Kiev and Brussels, Russia is
not building up its military presence in the Sea of Azov. Forces deployed there
are mostly used to guard the Crimean Bridge. Meanwhile, the actions taken by Ukraine, which has
announced a decision to set up a naval base in Berdyansk and systematically
close off some areas in the Sea of Azov for artillery live fire exercises, are
leading to the militarisation of the Sea of Azov. The Russian Federation is open to a constructive dialogue
on the situation in the Sea of Azov and would like to warn Ukraine against any
attempts, in violation of international law, to revise the current status of
the Sea of Azov as the internal waters of Russia and Ukraine. In this
connection, we urge Kiev to refrain from any reckless actions to unilaterally
delineate a new state border in the Sea of Azov, which Russia will not
recognise. The Russian Federation is warning everyone that the
responsibility for possible further aggravation of the situation in the Azov
Sea-Kerch water area lies with Ukraine and the states that support its
provocative actions.