Eleven people perished in a horrific road accident at Kaburengu junction along the Eldoret-Malaba highway yesterday. The accident occurred after a 14-seater matatu coming from Bungoma to Eldoret lost control and collided head on with a trailer heading to Malaba from Mombasa. The dead were seven women and four men. Their bodies were taken to Webuye subcounty hospital mortuary. The accident caused a major traffic snarl up on the Eldoret-Malaba highway. Speaking at the scene, Bungoma county police commander Francis Sang said that all nine occupants of the matatu including the driver died on the spot. The driver of the trailer with his loader died on the spot. “We are yet to identify the occupants of the vehicles but it is a blood-cuddling scene,” he said. Sang appealed to motorists plying the Northern Corridor highway to be vigilant this festive season to avoid such accidents. Many people are using the highway as they travel home to be with their families for the December holiday, he said. He urged everyone using the road to be cautious. The accident happened on the day NTSA director general Francis Meja urged motorists to be cautious during this festive season. Meja said yesterday that NTSA is determined to see a reversal in the trend of holiday accidents. He said law enforcement alone cannot end road accidents. There is need for total behavioural transformation, he said, and urged Kenyans to join hands to reduce fatalities. Read: At least 11 dead in Webuye matatu crash Meja urged all road users to exercise extra caution, especially at night when visibility is low. He said law enforcement officers will use alcoholblow to detect perosns driving vehicles under influence of alcohol. Poor teaching methods and corruption in driving schools has been blamed for the high number of accidents on Kenyan roads. Stakeholders want the driving school curriculum overhauled. Kenya Association of Tour Operators Coast chair Ishpal Oberoi recently said teaching using toy cars on boards and making people move from one point to another is not practical. Oberoi said the driving schools should be forced to buy simulators where learners can have the feel of a real car but with no risks. “Simulators are as real as it can possibly be without disrupting other motorists,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 