Former Kilifi deputy governor Kennedy Kamto was yesterday killed by hooded gunmen at his Nyali residence, along Beach Road. He was shot dead at around 3 am by three hooded gunmen armed with slashers and guns at his home that is situated barely a kilometre from Nyali Police Station. Speaking to journalists at her home, Kamto's widow Fauzia said that she had spent the day with her husband until 8 pm when he left the house for errands before returning at 11 pm. Later in the night, the gunmen jumped over the locked gate and forced their way into the house. The househelp alerted her bosses of the intruders and called them downstairs to the living room. The gunmen then forced Kamto to lie down before shooting him before his wife, mother and the househelp. Fauzia said the thieves stole Sh6,000, her phone and other personal belongings. "I called the police immediately to take him to the hospital but when they arrived, they said that he was already dead. I don't know why my husband had to die," Fauzia said amid tears. The deceased's elder sister, Chiku Kamto, said this was the third time that gunmen pursued her brother. She claimed that gunmen staged a roadblock when his brother was serving as deputy governor but didn’t succeed in killing him. The second time they attacked his home, but they were repulsed by security guards. "He knew he was being pursued," Chiku said. Read: Ex-Kilifi Deputy Governor Kennedy Kamto killed at Nyali home Mombasa county commissioner Evans Achoki confirmed the incident saying police would issue a press statement on the matter at a later time. The body was taken to Coast General Hospital mortuary. Human rights group Muhuri said security at the Coast has deteriorated. “We are giving the government seven days to find the killers,” Muhuri response officer Francis Auma said. Kamto unsuccessfully vied for Kilifi Governor during the last General Election. He joined politics in 2012 when he was elected as the ODM Kilifi branch chairman in 2012. He was later picked by governor Amason Kingi as his running mate for his 2013 which they won. Click here for the latest political news