Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has defended ODM leader Raila Odinga from his Jubilee critics, saying that he (Raila) is not in government and should not be pushed unfairly to deliver on development. Osotsi (ANC) said some Jubilee MPs are running hate campaigns targeting Raila. He said Raila's position is not a government job but an international portfolio and should, therefore, direct their anger to the right person. In October, The African Union Commission appointedRaila as High Representative for Infrastructure Development in Africa. “The hate campaigns by these Jubilee MP following Deputy President William Ruto will not help them, our people from Western or their master,” he said. Read: African Union appoints Raila as a special envoy for infrastructure Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe on Wednesday told Raila to ensure that his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta benefits Western Kenya. Wangwe said that the region supported Raila in the last three elections and it was time he reciprocated by getting development projects for residents. “We have already seen what President Uhuru who received five per cent of the Luhya vote has done in Western and we expect to see more development now that Raila who got the bulk support of 95 per cent has joined him,” he said. But Osotsi said that those supporting the DP cannot sell him in the region by badmouthing Raila or blackmailing other leaders. “We know that some of these Jubilee lawmakers following Ruto are part of the computer generated MPs who knows very well that they are beneficiaries of non-democratic practices,” he said. The DP, on average visits Western more than twice per month to sell his bid. MPs who accompany him roundly condemn Raila, accusing him of using the handshake to create disharmony in Jubilee. “For example, why should the DP go to relaunch a road in Emuhaya that was launched by the President in the lead up to the last elections? Why should he launch another MTC at Iguhu, 10 kilometres from an already existing one instead of expanding it?” he said. Osotsi asked the DP and his supporters to join the war on corruption and constitutional amendments instead of sulking at the relationship between Raila and Uhuru. Click here for the latest political news