As we try to establish why Kenya has had tribal clashes over the years and our economy hurt almost in every election cycle, we must put emotions aside. The Star exclusively reported ODM’s proposals to the Building Bridges Initiative. Though the party through it’s secretary general Edwin Sifuna maintained the proposal remains a discussion document, one item that should be seriously considered is the proposal to have one-term President. Reelection of presidents in Africa has always been the elephant in the room. The incumbents are always hellbent in securing their second terms at any cost. In 1963, all Kenyans joined hands and celebrated getting independence from the British. Then, Kenyans did not identify with tribe. They were one. Jomo Kenyatta was the President with Jaramogi Oginga deputising him. No tribals clashes happened then.We fought the colonial government as Kenya but not as tribes. It is when Kenyatta indicated he would seek reelection in 1968 that the faultlines started emerging. With his preparedness in top gears in 1966, he broke ranks with Odinga and each of them became their tribal Kingpins.They buried their nationhood and became the political protagonists. After Kenyatta’s death in 1978, Kenyans grouped behind Daniel Moi, and that changed after the 1982 attempted coup.   In 2002,Kenya was born again for the second time. We all joined hands not really to elect Mwai Kibaki, but to end 40 years KANU rule and 24 years of one-man show governance. Against the backdrop of the 2005 referendum, which the opposition led by Raila won, the worst happened in 2007, as Kibaki sought reelection in an election that was contested. We hand the same problems last year as Uhuru sought reelection. Kenya’s problem is reelection of a president but sugarcoated with ethic clashes which lead to war and hatred.  If we achieve a one-term presidency, say of seven years as proposed by the opposition, we will have a lot to celebrate. One when one is elected for his term, he or she will start building his legacy on day one.There will no time wasting because he or she will be running against limited time. Two, the President will not need political friends, hence no sacred cows when it comes to matters corruption. He or she will be free to run over anyone who might be an obstacle without caring how much votes he may have brought on board. Three, for fear of accountability, a one-term President must be prudent on how he or she spends public funds.  And last but not least, we will have new crop of leaders after every election cycle. You may for example realise in 2022, Kenya will be 59 years old out of which, 49 we have been lead by only two families. Mwangi is a journalism student, MKU  