States are cooperating more through integration. Of course, other than states such as the UK and the US, which are moving into an
anti-globalisation direction. Kenya continues to prioritise growth and
development of her economy and this links with the Protocol on the
Establishment of the EAC Common Market. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his
Tanzanian counterpart President John Magufuli last Saturday launched the Namanga one-stop border post. As pointed out by Donald Kaberuka,
former president of the African Development Bank, in order to achieve high
rates of economic growth in Africa, there is a need to invest in institutions,
integration and infrastructure. EAC is making progress in these three areas. Kenya has emerged as a dominant player and established herself as the linchpin of the East African region economy. Being the largest economy as well as
most dynamic in the EAC, the overall performance of the region to a greater
extent depends on what happens here in Kenya. The effects of Kenya’s
electoral violence in 2007-08, gives a good example of the importance Kenya
holds in partner states’ economies. Kenya’s economy is well linked to the
regional economies in regard to investment flows, foreign direct investments,
trading, infrastructure development and advancement in ICT. As the ‘big brother’ in the region,
therefore, Kenya has to bilaterally and multilaterally relate with her
neighbours in a certain well-structured framework. This is in consideration of
the differences that exist, inherently and those brought about in pursuit of
respective national interests. This is consistent with the assumption that
every state in the international system is selfish, and seeks to first achieve
her national interests In this regard, Kenya took the position
that building a common market across East Africa along with co-operation across
Africa would make her more attractive to foreign investors. It has, therefore,
been in the forefront in implementation and promotion of the Common Market
Protocol and implementation of other EAC MoUs.  During the launch of the Namanga border post,
President Kenyatta said, “I am pleased with the progress EAC partner states are
making to fast-track the Integration agenda. Indeed, the modernisation of
infrastructure and enhancement of intra-regional interactions will facilitate
the prosperity for our people.” This launch focused on small-scale
traders who do business across the border. But other than the good speeches,
what is exactly happening on the ground, unfairly affecting these traders and
other businesspersons? In September
2016, Kenyan tour operators accused Tanzanian authorities of denying Kenyan
tourists access to Serengeti National Park. As reported by
Business Today Kenya, they said tourists wishing to visit Serengeti from the
neighbouring Masai Mara National Reserve were being denied access through Sand
River Gate border point, noting that this goes against the EAC treaty on free
movement of people, goods and services. And in July last
year the Kenya Association of Manufacturers accused Tanzania of retaining
restrictions that existed before a truce was reached by respective Foreign
Affairs ministers, making it hard for Kenyan products to access its market. Kenya’s the Foreign Affairs CS Amina
Mohamed, and her Tanzanian counterpart, Augustine Mahinga, announced the two states
had agreed to end the import restrictions after ironing out long-standing trade
differences.  Kenya lifted restrictions on Tanzanian wheat flour and
liquefied petroleum gas, while Tanzania on its end removed its blockade of
Kenyan milk and milk products, and cigarettes. In November last
year, Kenyan authorities protested after Tanzania police burnt to death 6,400
one-day-old chicks from Kenya, on suspicion they could spread bird flu. This came
shortly after Tanzania seized and auctioned 1,300 cattle belonging to Maasais
from Kenya. So, how honest
is Tanzania in this integration process? The country’s non-committal to
regional affairs is historical, and at some point led to what was called the
Coalition of the Willing. Uhuru said it very candidly: “When we
look across our borders at each other, we don't see competitors or rivals. The
economic success of each member State is dependent on fostering synergies
across EAC, to better
position ourselves both as nations and as a community for the available
opportunities.” He added that it is the small-scale traders who drive the Kenyan
economy, and they should be supported to do business across the border
unhindered It is imperative, therefore, that Tanzania
walks it like it talks it. It is only fair         