President Uhuru Kenyatta has cautioned Kenyans against politicising the war on corruption saying those found culpable will not go unpunished. Denying claims that the fight targets certain communities, the Head of State said every suspect, irrespective of their status or tribe, will carry their own cross as his administration will not relent in fighting corruption. Uhuru spoke in Kisumu during the commissioning of works on the Ahero Interchange in Kisumu. The works will also involvethe expansion of Ahero-Isebania road. "If you steal, you steal alone and not with your community. You should carry your own cross," the president said. "If you're engaged in corruption you will go to court whether you are a Kikuyu, Kamba, Kalenjin or Luo. Let's stop ethnicising the war on corruption." Uhuru was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, several MPs and State officials including Transport CS James Macharia. The leaders received a heroic welcome to Kisumu, which is Raila's home turf. Hundreds of residents lined up along the Ahero- Kisumu road to welcome Uhuru. He made stopovers at Ahero town, Rabuor, Nyamasaria and Kondele on his way to Mamboleo showground for the launch of the Universal Health Coverage programme. The President told elected leaders to shun politics on corruption for the country to realise gains in the fight. Uhuru hailed the road project saying it will improve movement of people and goods as it connects Kisumu, Kericho, Kisii and Migori counties. On the handshake, the Head of State said they are committed to end divisive politics and unite the country for economic development growth. Uhuru stated that they will not allow unhealthy politics to overrule the interest and lives of Kenyans every electioneering period. He added that "those doubting the handshake should wait and see the fruits as they will be in rude shock." "We have agreed to work together with Raila to unite and improve the living standards of Kenyans. We say no to tribal and divisive politics," he said. See: Uhuru to visit Jaramogi's home in Bondo 'for blessings' The President said his administration is committed to working with all leaders to unite the country and foster development. He noted that Raila is part of the government adding that they are working on the interest of citizens. Uhuru said their objective is to ensure Kenyans have better healthcare, clean and safe water, good roads, jobs, sufficient food, housing, and electricity. "Every Kenyan deserves a better life and that's why we want constructive politics and inclusive government," he said. He congratulated Raila for his appointment to the African Union saying he was best placed to improve development infrastructure in Africa. Raila is currently the AU High Representative for Infrastructure, a position he took up in October this year. For his part, he said the journey of a new dawn to unite Kenyans has started. "It is here at Ahero where the founding President Jomo Kenyatta and Vice President Jaramogi Oginga shook hands. They met here at Ahero," he said. Raila said the handshake is aimed at uniting the country and addressing the historical injustices. On his part, Ruto who greeted hundreds of Kisumu residents in Luo dialect said elections are over and they are now focusing on uniting Kenyans and development. He kept off politics saying he would visit later 'when the time comes'. Also read: Raila shares light moment with Ruto ahead of Uhuru's arrival in Kisumu Click here for the latest political news