Am I unlucky in love? They all leave me running for the hills, these men. I need to start exploring the theory that maybe I’m not drinking from the same fountain as everyone in the village. Either they are all bat-shit crazy and I’m the only normal one, or it’s the other way round. If they are the ones that are nuts, perhaps I should drink the same shit and go as mental as the lot of them. Nah, scratch that. I’d rather be alone, than unhappy. I have no interest in getting into the vortex of misery that is Rob’s life. You need to know something about people who are doing badly or seem to always be in a constant crisis. Their bad fortune is infectious. Just as surely as you will catch a cold if you hang around someone with is sneezing and blowing germs your way when they are sick, you will also catch ‘misery’. I quickly leave his place and go home. I take a shower and fall into bed. Bye bye, Rob. Thank you, next. Ariana Grande’s ode to all her exes is the theme song for my dreams tonight. Isn’t it cool to be a singer? When you break up with someone, write a song about it, make a whole load of money. Life imitates art. In the Decay of Lying, Oscar Wilde holds that what is found in life and nature is not what is really there but that which artistes have taught people to find there, through art. He gives the example of fog existing for centuries but no one noticing the wonder and beauty of it, until poets and painters taught the loveliness of such effects. Does that mean, then, that a lot of things I write about on this page, if admired as beautiful, will become common in nature? I sleep soundly, despite the disturbing thought. Nothing is beautiful about this life. I was talking to my landlord the other day (he is a pastor) and he told me that we are all dust. Sinners, murderers, good men, all of us, are just dust at the end of it all. Just thank the Lord for your life and don’t worry too much about the killer next door. Do your thing, let him do his. He’s dust just like you are. So life should not imitate art. Life should be what it is. Because if the responsibility is left to art to decide who we are, then the bar needs to be raised a lot higher than everything we see daily on social media. Perhaps that’s why Rob had a shot with a girl like me. In that fake world where you look amazing in a picture and seem smart with a cool hashtag, it’s hard for someone to get to know the real you. Most of us cannot hold up under scrutiny. And the saddest thing about looks is they are really about what’s within. How else do you explain meeting someone you found very attractive but who as you got to know better, you found to be average? Or a person who was not that good-looking but became more attractive to you over time because of their personality? That’s how I feel about Rob. The hotness has faded. He is average. Ugly, even. All I remember when I think of him is vermin. But we have loose ends, dammit! I need to get my bike back. I need to get creative and figure out how exactly I’m going to make this happen, and I can be finally be rid of him.