Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina has decried the challenges facing traders at Karatina market, which was opened last month by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The senator spoke on Saturday as he visited the new three-storey market to assess the situation after complaints by the traders. Maina said the toilets were too few for the population at the market and are too expensive for the traders. They cost Sh10 per visit. He said there are only four toilets which are dirty and lack basics such as water and operating doors. The senator wants the county to improve the toilet situation and lower the fees. Trader Wanjiku Thuita said the toilets were sometimes unusable and filthy since they were constantly without water. She proposed that users pay Sh10 per day, instead of Sh10 per visit. Maina said leaders should come together and meet county officials to urgently address the situation. Traders have also complained about what they call unfair allocation of stalls. “There must be a genuine, just and fair distribution of the stalls which traders have raised concerns about,” he said. The basement, which was supposed to provide a parking, has been converted into another selling area. Traders complain the temperature is too cold. easy access The senator called on the market’s contractor to build a lift as the market occupies three floors. He said this would ensure easier movement of goods between the floors and would be convenient for the sick, elderly and disabled to access the market. Trader Thuita urged the county to stop working with the market committee and instead use the market master and askaris to restore and maintain order. She said some people are mistreating the market master. President Uhuru opened the Sh250 million market on November 1 after traders were evicted from the area to allow for construction. Uhuru criticised KeNHA for demolishing stalls and markets without giving prior notice to traders. Present during the market’s opening were Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga, his deputy Caroline Karugu, senator Maina, woman representative Rahab Mukami, MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). Also present were James Gichuhi (Tetu), Wambugu Ngunjiri (NyerTown), Gichuki Mugambi (Othaya) and Anthony Kiai (Mukurwe-ini). and members of the county assembly. Gachagua promised the new market will be well-lit to enable traders work even at night. The legislator said it took more than seven years to be completed due to inadequate funding and changing of contractors.