Former Kiambu governor William Kabogo has called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a commission of inquiry to investigate increased theft of public funds by state officers. Kabogo said increased cases of corruption hamper the realisation of vision 2030. The former governor, who was speaking to the Star, said corruption had forced the government to increase taxes to pay debts and foot the cost of development projects. “I’m appealing to the President to set up a commission of inquiry into this blatant theft. The inquiry must audit the lifestyle of those in government.” Kabogo was reacting to a report by the Auditor General that Exim Bank of China may take over the Mombasa port if Kenya fails to service the loan it took to build the standard gauge railway. The commission should look into avenues that promote corruption and advise on appropriate measures to eliminate graft in the public sector. “The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Judiciary must do their work effectively and prosecute corrupt officials,” Kabgo said warning that corruption could destroy the country. He said little has been achieved yet corruption cases were reported daily with taxpayers’ money being misused by a few selfish individuals. He asked the agencies tasked with fighting corruption to work with NGOs to stamp out the vice. “Failure to fight this dragon will derail the realisation of the vision 2030 as well as President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda,” he said. He praised Uhuru for supporting the fight against corruption. “We have a good political will so let us cooperate and provide information so we can have a corrupt-free country,” he said. He asked him to remain committed to fighting corruption if he wants to leave a legacy similar to that of his predecessor Mwai Kibaki. The call for the formation of a commission of inquiry has previously been made by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Mudavadi said only such a commission can come up with recommendations to help in the fight against graft. “Such a commission will give us remedial actions other than unravelling the graft kingpins, the evidence and penalties to be applied,” Mudavadi said.