Owing to the backward trending in standards in every
field, including our institutions, , those from a certain generation would
recall when walking down a village street wearing a school uniform from a known
high school commanded respect. If you had a blazer to boot, respect for you
nearly rivaled that of your local chief. And if you were university student,
well, you were the chief with brains, not just wisdom. We’re here talking about being a student in one of the top
national high schools or the only university then, the University of Nairobi. For
those who couldn’t make the arbitrary cut to UoN, there was the only other
consolation — Jomo Kenyatta University. When the government failed to maintain and expand
opportunities for both private and public employment of graduates from these
two institutions, some geniuses figured the solution is to establish
universities in every county with absolutely no compunction for the absurdity
of creating more graduates with nothing to do with their degrees. The situation is so dire such that the 2018 Skills
Mismatch Report by the Federation of Kenya Employers shows that degree-holders
in most companies have taken up positions meant for diploma and certificate
holders such as clerical and receptionist positions, while postgraduate degree
holders are also ending up in jobs way below their competencies, further
compounding the wastage of training resources. The story is no better for those who go on to professional
training such as lawyers for many, upon graduation from the school of law, end
up beating the pavement with no real prospect of employment and if hired, they
soon realise the profession is not really all that what it used to be or could
be. As in all countries, these newly minted lawyers discover
that prestigious and hard it is to become a lawyer, the profession is steeped
in customs and traditions one must learn to live with one of which is the stratamization
of the profession: Depending on one’s trajectory, one can find oneself at the
bottom of the pile as the low man (or woman) on the totem pole. These are, if
you would, the jua kali advocates or in the United States pejoratively referred
to as the ambulance chasers. While some deserve the derisive reference, many
are hardworking and very intelligent but find themselves in these ranks out of
necessity. With hard work and some luck, many will come from these
ranks to become your average, successful lawyer with a decent living which is
home to the bulk of the profession. From these groups rise the top of the crème, otherwise
known as senior counsels. Being a senior counsel is the height of success in the
profession. The equivalent of these class of lawyers in England are
the Queen’s Counsels or QCs. DPP Nordin Haji has now hired Queen’s Counsel Khawar
Qureshi to lead the prosecution of Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and
ostensibly other high-profile corruption cases. This move is wrong and totally unacceptable for several
reasons: One, it says the DPP himself is not competent to prosecute
these cases. Two, it says Kenya has not produced men and women who can
handle this task, not just as Senior Counsels, but as lawyers, period. Three, nothing could be more insulting to Kenya’s senior
counsels, let alone any lawyer than reaching outside our borders to find a
lawyer to prosecute these cases. Last but not least, once you go down this path, the next
stop is hiring foreign judges to preside in these cases and before you know it,
foreigners are running our court system in all important cases. That cannot be therefore the DPP would be wiser to rethink
and rescind this appointment of the Queen’s Counsel and let he or anyone of our
many Kenyan lawyers handle the cases. It’s not enough that many or all senior counsels declined
the opportunity to prosecute these cases as special prosecutors. The DPP himself should prosecute or leave the post for
someone who can. Samuel Omwenga is legal analyst and political commentator in the
United States    