Kenyan representatives in the Caf assignments Gor Mahia and Kariobangi Sharks jetted out yesterday for their return matches slated for tomorrow in Blantyre and Djibouti respectively. Gor will put their 1-0 win in line against Malawi’s Nyasa Bullets in the Champions League while Sharks carry a massive five-goal advantage to Djibouti when they take on Solar Arta 7 in the Confederations Cup. The Kenyan champions send out 16 players to Malawi yesterday with the rest expected to leave today accompanied by Turkish coach Hassan Oktay who made it to the team although he is yet to be unveiled. He is expected to assist Zedekiah “Zico” Otieno in denying the Malawians a home win which will guarantee them a place in the next round. The duo of Kenneth Muguna and Jacques Tuyisenge, who picked injuries in the first leg were left behind as influential play maker Francis Kahata also missed out of the 18-man playing unit. On the other hand, Sharks who won the Kenya Premier League Super Cup, have included their new catch and national under-20 player Alvin Mangeni in their travelling squad. Skipper Erick Juma returns to the team after missing the first leg with a toe injury while Erick Kapaito and Sven Yidah, who also missed the Nairobi tie were confirmed unfit for the match. Sharks won 6-1 in the home fixture last week and will be seeking a draw or a win to qualify to the next round, where they will meet Ghanaian giants Asante Kotoko. Head coach William Muluya will once again count on the red hot Sydney Simale for goals as the U-23 striker has found the back of the net at will in recent times and is expected to partner with George Abege up-front. Sharks squad: Goalkeepers: Gad Mathews, Brian Bwire, John Oyemba; Defenders: Michael Bodo, Geofrey Shiveka, John Kuol, Tom Teka, Nixon Omondi, Erick Juma, John Otieno; Midfielders: Patilla Omoto, Duke Abuya, Fidel Origa, James Mazembe, Henry Juma, Vincent Wasambo, Harrison Nzivo, Moses Mwangi, Alvin Mangeni; Forwards; Sydney Lokale and George Abege. Gor Mahia—Goalkeepers: Boniface Oluoch, Fredrick Odhiambo; Defenders: Philemon Otieno, Shafik Batambuze, Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango, Charles Momanyi, Pascal Ogweno; Midfielders: Boniface Omondi, George Odhiambo, Bernard Ondiek, Ernest Wendo, Humphrey Mieno, Cercidy Okeyo, Samuel Onyango, Lawrence Juma; Forwards: Erisa Sekisambu, Francis Mustafa.