City Hall is set to roll out biometric identification cards for its staff in a bid to eradicate impersonators. Deputy county secretary Leboo Morintat announced said on Fridaythe cards will protect city residents from fraud. The announcement came a day after four people were arrested in South C for impersonating county officers and extorting money from the public. Leboo said all the 15,000 employees will get the digital cards before the end of the year. “The cards are ready and we will start immediately,” he said. City Hall losses millions of shillings every year to fraudsters posing as county officials. On Thursday, Alex Khaemba, John Kutner, Paul Misori and Kennedy Odongo were arrested by irate residents of South C. They were demanding a bribe from a shopkeeper when they were caught. “These people have been demanding money from shopkeepers and contractors. They come with a pick-up bearing the county logo on on the door,” Rashid Ibrahim, a resident said. They were booked at the Langata police station before being locked up. They were later charged at the City Hall court and released on a cash bail of Sh40,000 each. Cases of impersonation of the county inspectorate officers have been rising in the recent past. In August 2016, five people, among them three county employees were arrested in the city centre and charged for impersonating City Hall officials. Stanley Ngara Muritu, George Muiruri and Richard Kimani - all former inspectorate officers - were arrested by county detectives working with EACC officers. The other two, Joseph Muchiri and Gilbert Ngugi, were civilians working in cahoot with the impersonators. They were arrested while attempting to tow a public service vehicle at OTC bus station. In July, the same year, county detectives arrested five people, a student and a former staffer, for faking county documents. The five were believed to be part of a cartel that issues fake occupational certificates, payment receipts, building approvals and public health certificates. The crackdown was launched by the national government to enforce rules which had been gazetted 15 years ago by the late Transport minister John Michuki in a bid to maintain order in the matatu sector.