ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said he is not intimidated by Deputy President William Ruto and will not join him ahead of 2022 polls. Mudavadi said he is the last man standing in the Opposition and cannot be coerced to join Ruto for the top race. “I have gone through the low times and high times and will not be tossed around like some Western leaders are being tossed by the DP,” he said. He spoke during a thanksgiving ceremony for Matungu MP Justus Murunga at Makunda Primary School on Saturday. Mudavadi dismissed politicians from Western pestering him to join Ruto under the guise of reaching out to other communities, saying he has been in politics long enough and knows which friends to court for an election. “It is not about reaching out to any neighbour but worth friends with a shared vision. Let them know that I know that I need to reach out to friends from other regions,” he said. The former deputy prime minister said that he was prepared to take any challenger head on. Lugari MP Ayub Savula said ANC will negotiate for 2022 directly with President Uhuru Kenyatta and not DP Ruto. He asked politicians from the region backing the DP’s bid to keep off any negotiations and leave Luhya leaders to speak for the community. Savula said those following the DP from Western “are beggars” on their own and not representing the community. Mudavadi said he declined a government job because he wanted to be free to speak for Kenyans. He asked the Senate to uncover those behind the Sh38 billion leased medical equipment programme, saying Kenyans did not receive value for money and those behind the mess should be prosecuted. “The handshake is good but crooks should not be allowed to hide behind the truce to plunder the country,” he said. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta should form a judicial commission of inquiry to unearth the ghosts behind the sugar, maize and fertiliser scandals. He said that only two companies have imported fertiliser into the country for the last four years. Mudavadi on Sunday toured North Rift region and asked the Kalenjin community to back him in 2022 presidential race. He attended two church events where and said he is in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I and my Luhya community stood behind retired President Daniel Moi. The Kalenjin community should thus back my bid as a way of returning the favour,” Musalia said. Mudavadi spoke at Nyaru trading centre where he presided over a funds drive in aid of Full Gospel Church of Kenya in Elgeyo Marakwet. The ANC leader and his entourage surprised worshippers at AIC Sitotwo in the same county where they arrived unannounced and participated in another fundraising for the church choir. He met with Kalenjin elders and professionals including teachers. 