 Wikipedia notes
the “true meaning of Christmas" is a phrase that began to appear in the
mid-19th century, when a shift toward a more secular culture resulted in a
national backlash. Christians
began to see the secularisation of the celebration day of the birth of Christ
as the shift toward Santa. Exchanging gifts replaced the celebration of the
advent of Christ and giving to the poor and the needy. This trend was
accelerated by the publication of the poem A
Visit From St. Nicholas (1822), which helped popularise the tradition of
exchanging gifts, giving rise to the economic importance of seasonal Christmas
shopping to the point that Christmas is synonymous with shopping more than its
original purpose — the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. To be sure, no
one knows for sure on what day Christ was born but December 25 became the
generally accepted date owing to Dionysus Exiguus, a sixth-century monk, who
was the first to date all of history from December 25, “the year of our Lord.” Cultures around
the Mediterranean and across Europe observed feasts on or around December 25 —
the Jews had a festival of lights, Germans had a yule festival and so on. At
the pagan festival of Saturnalia, Romans feasted and gave gifts to the poor and
a common denominator in all these cultures was drinking, which was closely
connected with these pagan feasts and continues to this day as no doubt alcohol
consumption is highest during the season. Many traditions
have always been associated with Christmas such as pagan tales, which would
later be replaced with Christian stories and then came the candles but over the
years, gift exchanges became connected with the name of St Nicholas, a real but
legendary figure of 4th century Lycia (a province of Asia), a charitable man
who threw gifts into homes. There’s no part
of the world some child does not look forward to this time of the year for
their share of the gifts from “Santa”, which for those whose parents can afford
is quite a pleasant experience but just what the doctor ordered for depression
for those that’s not the case. But Christmas
need not be that gloomy for the have nots for around the 19th century,
Christians added one of the most pleasant touches of all to the celebrations
when they began to sing Christmas carols, a phenomenon that touches all in
equal measure. Nothing like
hearing or listening to Christmas music that has the ability to drown away
sorrows and instantaneously lift up one’s spirit, broke or not to shower loved
ones with gifts. Talking about
carols, in 1843, in Victorian England, Charles Dickens published his novelette
"A Christmas Carol," which became
one of the most popular short works of fiction ever penned. Although the
book is more a work of sentiment than of Christianity, it captures something of
the Christmas spirit. The tightfisted grump, Ebenezer Scrooge, who exclaimed
"humbug!" at the mention of Christmas, is contrasted with generous
merry-makers such as his nephew, Fred and with the struggling poor, symbolised
by Bob Cratchit and Tiny Tim. The book's appeal to good works and charitable
contributions virtually defines Christmas in English-speaking lands. It also gave
rise to a movement to redefine or remind people of the true meaning of
Christmas, best captured in an American magazine published in 1889 imploring: "to
give up one's very self — to think only of others — how to bring the greatest
happiness to others — that is the true meaning of Christmas.” To your loved
ones, yes, shower them with gifts if you can but, if you can’t, shower them
with what matters even more: LOVE. They’ll grumble but love has a way of
overcoming anything for those who understand the true meaning of it. To the rest, shower
them with love, too, or at least kindness, understanding and compassion knowing
we’re on this earth as God’s creation for whom love for one another should and
aught to always be paramount, not just during this festive season.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States 