Communication is arguably one of the most important tools in the day-to-day life of man that has remarkably evolved over the years. Someone recently joked on social media that they only take two communications seriously: The low battery warning on their electronic gadgets and when oncoming matatu drivers signal them to slow down on the highway. What followed was a string of reactions and counter-reactions, one of which caught my attention. It was advice to include ‘communication from a tax authority’ in the list of communications to take more seriously. The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has over the years been in close contact with the taxpayers whenever need arises. Thanks to modern technology, which KRA has leveraged on, communication with the taxpayers has now become even easier and more efficient. One such technology is the Customer Relationship Management Solution (CRM), which has enabled end-to-end communication with taxpayers. The messages KRA sends out to taxpayers include constant reminders on key tax payment due dates and defaulter messages in case a taxpayer defaults on a given tax obligation. But the million-dollar question is, how do we handle communication sent by a tax agency such as KRA? First, let’s acknowledge that we live in an era where impostors and fraudsters have pulled up their socks to bring out their A-game in hoodwinking unsuspecting members of the public. Let’s assume you received an email from KRA informing you that you have not been filing your tax returns for a given period, yet deep down you are sure your returns have been filed. Chances are high you might be tempted to dismiss the message on grounds the sender is an impostor or a fraudster. However, it would be advisable to take some time to check with KRA, which has invested in various channels of communication through which members of the public can verify such information. One such channel is the contact centre, which can be reached on 0711-099-999 or call centre@kra.go.ke. A walk to the nearest KRA office or Huduma Centre could also come in handy for a taxpayer who needs to verify the authenticity of any communication that they might have supposedly received from KRA. The most common instances when KRA sends out messages to a taxpayer is when a taxpayer fails to file a tax return for a given tax obligation they registered on their Personal Identification Numbers (PINs). Failure to file a tax return attracts a penalty that varies depending on the type of tax obligation registered on the said taxpayer’s PIN. These instances, though rare, happen to taxpayers who trust third parties to file tax returns on their behalf. In the worst case scenarios, the third parties end up not honouring the trust bestowed on them and fail to file the returns. Such a taxpayer therefore rests assured that their tax returns went through, until the taxman reminds them to file the very tax return! Before it gets to this, taxpayers who seek third party assistance to file tax returns have a key tool at their disposal to verify if their returns were indeed filed; iTax. iTax is undoubtedly one of the technologies that have significantly revolutionised the experience of filing returns. The system has the final word with regards to filed tax returns. It is therefore important for taxpayers to note that any communication from the taxman is crucial and should not be ignored. As mentioned earlier, when in doubt, confirm with KRA to avoid inconveniences and consequences. Head of Marketing and Communication, KRA