We are all susceptible to influence. Think about it: Whenever we need to get information about a new car, a makeup brand or even which store to shop, we find ourselves online, listening to what influencers have to say. Now more than ever, social media influencers understand the essence of having proper presence on digital platforms. Joy Kendi is one such influencer, who knows how to keep her over 146,000 Instagram followers interested in her daily life. In this interconnected world, virtual numbers is almost equivalent to power. Joy Kendi first came to the limelight years ago, when she appeared on the TV show "Better Days," which arguably remains one of the biggest shows ever produced in Kenya. She caught the attention of the nation with her impressive acting skills and exceptional beauty, a factor that certainly ensured her blogging journey would, to a reasonable extent, be effortless. She's never looked back ever since. So yes, Joy Kendi is one of the few Kenyan influencers who've really been toiling hard, never depending on controversial situations to gain her place as a social media star. She's built her brand with every post and managed to attract some of the biggest brands to work with her. Her blog, "Just Joy Kendi", features her personal style, travels and beauty journey, and once in a while, she gets sent products to test and discuss. From her Instagram feed, she mastered the art of always looking good for the camera. Every shot she takes is worthwhile, and the curation of her feed is quite impressive. Her beauty and sense of fashion leaves her fans in awe, delighting in the endless experiences she exhibits. Her feed is so aspirational, it leaves you questioning your life. A sum of 146K followers is not something to really be chuffed about, but the truth is they are actually working wonders for her. Using her online influence, she's established and built an online brand, grown her YouTube channel and become one of East Africa's top social media stars. For what it's worth, being a social media star is now big business. So if you think you've got what it takes, why not try it out?