Is there an ideological war in ODM or mere succession politics? Some party insiders say a silent tussle between liberals and conservatives is starting to take shape. The ideological differences have been linked to the feud between some allies of Party Leader Raila Odinga and Siaya Senator James Orengo. The idea is to isolate Orengo in Raila's inner circle and paint him as a trouble maker. The liberals who speak freely and profess a revolutionary spirit like Jim as Orengo is commonly referred are no longer tolerated. Sources whispered to Corridors this is the reason some brilliant lawyers in ODM are being branded as traitors despite their years of toil for Raila. They have been under massive attack on social media from hired online mercenaries. ----------------- Did Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday hold a lengthy meeting with Energy CS Charles Keter amid reports of a looming cabinet reshuffle? Corridors of Power is aware of a secret meeting between the two leaders at the Karen official residence of the Deputy President but does know the nature or contents of the meeting between them. Our mole says the DP summoned the Energy CS for the meeting to allegedly make it clear to him that the anticipated shakeup of the cabinet could as well affect him and some other ministers earmarked for a purge. It is not clear if it was the DP who initiated the talks or he was rather responding to murmurs among his allies in the cabinet that he had recommended for their exit. Stay out as we shall tell you more when news unfold. --------- A Mt. Kenya governor was shocked this week when he found out that his name was not among those who were to be honoured by President Uhuru Kenyatta during yesterday's Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nyayo stadium. The county chief had allegedly been contacted by the office of the President a few months ago and informed that his name had been forwarded to the national committee responsible for identifying people to be conferred with State Honours. Indeed about a month ago, according to our mole, the governor received a confirmation that he had been picked for a top national honour. Surprisingly, as some of his colleagues informed him of their names in the list last week, the county chief's name was missing. His allies say he is worried that his 'enemy' within Sate House could have expunged his name at the last minute. ------------------- Is there a deliberate push by some cabinet ministers to sabotage the highly-rated performance of Interior CS Fred Matiang'i? While the abrasive minister has gained dalliance with the public given his hands-on approach in service delivery, some within government are allegedly not happy because they feel he is stealing the thunder from them. A cartel opposed to him is said to have started a radical plan to fight back his achievements including bungling the roll-out of the much hyped new education system, a mega agenda he championed while serving as Education CS. While he got out of the office to monitor the implementation of Michuki rules along highways, the same cartel loudly complained. Where did the collective responsibility mantra in cabinet go to? Click here for the latest political news