Supermarket chain Naivas has opened its first megastore in the Mombasa CBD two weeks after opening another outlet in the coastal town. Clients were treated to jaw-dropping offers with electronics like LED TV sets going for up to Sh7,000 less than the market price. There were plenty of Buy-One-Get-One-Free offers on items like maize flour, wheat flour, sugar, milk, among other basic commodities. Naivas chief commercial officer Willy Kimani said the introductory prices and offers, and the opening of the Naivas Mwembe Tayari was a Christmas gift to their clients in Mombasa. "It is our way of saying thank you to Mombasa people who have been yearning for a major supermarket in the CBD," Kimani said. Naivas Likoni was opened two weeks ago at the premises initially occupied by Nakumatt. Naivas Mwembe Tayari becomes the 49th branch of the supermarket chain. "We wanted to lock down the island and I think residents are now properly served," Kimani said adding that Mombasa is a critical market for the chain store. "We were missing some critical numbers and now we are making progress." He expressed confidence they would dominate the market due to their ambitious plans and sound management of client expectations and service delivery. Naivas Mwembe Tayari is situated 200 meters away from Nawal Centre, which was the only major supermarket that served the CBD. "We believe this new supermarket will be able to give us at least three per cent of our total revenue," Kimani told the Star. Already, the new supermarket has created employment for at least 700 people in Mombasa directly and 500 more indirectly. The outlet is the fourth Naivas supermarket in Mombasa county. Others are Naivas Likoni, Naivas Bamburi, and Naivas Nyali. Another branch is in Ukunda. Kimani said that soon, the supermarket chain will open more stores so as to better serve Coast residents. "We want now to consolidate our presence in this region before we expand further." Zulekha Ahmed, a shopper, welcomed the new supermarket saying it will make shopping easier and faster. "We will no longer have to travel long distances to shop. We can get everything we want here," she said. Allan Otieno said the location of the supermarket is also good because it is accessible to PSV commuters. "You just alight from the matatu and enter into the supermarket. You can also shop and get a matatu right outside the supermarket," Otieno said. Click here for the latest political news 