The much-touted plementation of the 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school may fail next year due to lack of funds, a report has revealed. The education sector’s Medium Expenditure Framework (MTEF) Budget further clouds realisation of five key projects the ministry views as key in revamping education. According to the report signed by Basic Education principal secretary Belio Kipsang, the sector falls short of Sh113 billion required to ensure smooth implementation of five projects. The projects are free day secondary education, a collective bargaining agreement for lecturers and teachers, implementation of differentiated unit cost and implementation of TVET capitation and loan. The report says they may not ebe achieved. Speaking during the close of KCSE examinations last week, Education CS Amina Mohamed said the government had set aside Sh16 billion to help implement the 100 per cent transition to secondary schools in Form 1 selection. The number of students enrolled in secondary schools next year is expected to increase from 2.7 million to 3.8 million following the plan to admit all the 1,032,334 KCPE exam candidates to secondary schools. The number is an all-time high since the inception of the 8-4-4 education system. However, allocation to sustain the projects and the surge in admission fail to match, the report says. The report indicates a fund reduction from Sh9 billion to Sh2 billion allocated to develop infrastructure to help accommodate the high numbers. According to the ministry, schools elevated to national and extra county positions were to be prioritised in getting infrastructure to help accommodate the numbers. There are 103 national schools and 331 listed as extra county schools However, the report shows only 88 of these schools got improved infrastructure.None got any lab equipment. Only 164 laboratories and 700 classes were constructed. “The sector was not able to pay contractors for ongoing projects resulting in delayed project implementation, pending bills and potential cost escalation,” the report reads. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi yesterday called for higher allocation to ensure quality education. “We need to relook at our schools. We need to increase the number of teachers and teaching materials to be if 100 per cent transition is going to work,” Kahi told the Star on phone. The Teachers Service Commission this year recruited an additional 7,000 teachers to handle the high admission. However, schools still suffer teacher shortage by 102,000 teachers — primary 45,000 and secondary 57,000. In the last financial year, the Education ministry built 700 classrooms in secondary schools. Ministry guidelines say a standard classroom should accommodate 40 students. This means the new classes can hold only 28,000 new learners. Some 989 new secondary schools have also been built in the last one year, pushing the number of schools to 10,655 from 9,966. The head teachers’ grievances are supported by Auditor General Edward Ouko’s 2018 report, which reveals congestion in most schools.