Deputy President William Ruto is expected to attend the burial of slain Kilifi ex-deputy governor Kenneth Kamto on Wednesday at his farm in Bejana, Rabai. Kamto will be buried in accordance with Islamic rites after a decision was made on Saturday by the wife and children, putting an end to debate over which religious rites will be used to bury him. A member of the funeral planning committee told the Star on Sunday there was an initial tussle between different members of Kamto’s nuclear and extended families over how he will be buried. “However, the decision on how a deceased is to be buried lies squarely with the wife and children according to Islam,” said the committee member. On Saturday, Kamto’s wife Fauzia and his five children including Kabeyu, Dzame, Mwadzaya, Chirindo and Kaluki Kamto, who had all flown in from China where they study. Made the decision and informed the committee. The committee is co-chaired by incumbent Kilifi deputy governor Gideon Saburi and Lands CAS and former Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung’aro. The ex-DG’s Muslim faith has caught many of his friends and supporters by surprise. According his close friend and ally Matano Chengo, Kamto was born into a Christian family but converted to Islam later in life. “That is why all the funeral arrangements will be done according to Islamic rites,” Chengo, who is the Jubilee Mombasa county chair, told the Star. Chengo said Ruto will attend the burial in Rabai. “He will be at the burial site in the morning before we lay him to rest,” said Chengo. Kamto was shot dead at his Nyali residence in Mombasa last Wednesday at 3 am. Fauzia said he had been trailed thrice by unknown people prior to his killing. Police have questioned several people, including his family members, in a bid to try and unravel the mystery surrounding his death. However, Coast regional coordinator Bernard Lemparamarai says no one has been arrested yet. A tentative funeral arrangement has been released to the public, through the local dailies. It indicates the funeral service will be held at Lugwe primary school in Bengo, Rabia sub-county on Wednesday, the day of burial. According to the arrangement, the burial ceremony will be somewhat a mixture of both the Christian and Muslim faiths. Kamto’s body will be removed from the Aga Khan Hospital morgue on Tuesday at 3pm and taken to his Nyali residence. “It will be washed at the residence and prayed for there,” said Chengo. The body will then leave the Nyali residence early Wednesday morning for Lugwe primary school ground where it is expected to arrive at 9am. DP Ruto will lead residents in viewing the body until 10am when speeches will begin. The speeches will then be stopped at 12.30pm when the body will be washed again and Dhuhr prayers held before burial. In most cases, Muslims do not allow viewing of the body. “It is not a problem however. Once the body is shrouded, the face can be left so people can view,” Chengo, a Muslim, said.