Even though it seems difficult to imagine today, there was a time in Kenya when elected office was seen by many who sought it more as a vocation than as a moneymaking, influence-peddling career. There were elected MPs, such as Martin Shikuku, who were on the whole not interested in high office or the perks that came with it. I know he served briefly as an assistant minister in the governments of first and second Presidents, and that in 1997 he ran for President, but he was always at his most effective on the back benches, holding the government of the day to account. Shikuku, who was known as the people’s watchman, may have been elected by the voters of Butere, but he was popular across the country for generally having his finger on the pulse of the electorate. Of course he got it wrong sometimes, such as his frankly racist views on Asians, but in his heyday — when he was exposing scandals at the railways and in banking, etc. — he would have scored top marks in a test of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), had there been such a thing to measure delivery by elected officials. For Shikuku and his ilk, representing and defending the people who voted them into office appeared to be the thing that gave their life meaning. Those of his calibre included George Anyona, Mashengu Mwachofi, James Orengo, Lawrence Sifuna, Koigi Wamwere and Chelagat Mutai. Their servant leadership was much unlike most of their modern counterparts, who just want to make as much money as they can from the electorate for as long as they are able to, even when they are no longer representing the people. I got to thinking about elected officials and KPIs as a performance management system driven by the electorate after seeing a tweet from a British MP to her constituents. The tweet, which came up because a British friend had ‘liked’ it, highlighted her activities in the chambers of Parliament and around her constituency. It included facts such as her contribution to debates on issues of importance to her voters; a visit to a school in her constituency to congratulate an award-winning pupil (and not to have the students sing for her and the teachers fawn all over her), and even holding the equivalent of a one-on-one baraza with her constituents to find out what their concerns are on national issues. Kenyan voters, in fact voters everywhere, should demand that their elected officials keep a public record such as that of the British MP. In this day and age, where access to the Internet is comparatively widespread, it shouldn’t be too hard for most voters to keep tabs on their MPs meeting their KPIs in this manner. If the MPs did not perform as required, this would be the signal to the voters to throw them out and replace them with someone who might do a better job. Perhaps such a system of actual checks and balances by the voters would ensure that elected representatives actually got involved in politics to help the people, rather than to milk the taxpayer of every last cent. Follow me on Twitter @MwangiGithahu 