US ambassador Robert Godec has given the Kenya Editors' Guild a Sh20 million grant to assist with media freedom and tackling the spread of fake news in Kenya. "Fake news is undermining democracy and eroding confidence in news media. Stopping the spread is everyone’s responsibility, and it requires strong collaboration between the media and the public," he said. Speaking during the Guild's First Annual Convention and a two-day training at the Villa Rosa Kempinski on Saturday, Godec said journalists have the responsibility to report facts accurately, refrain from incitement and to conduct themselves ethically and impartially. Media owners, editors, and journalists had met to review the state of media industry. Godec said despite the challenge of fake news, the media was still required to play a critical role of guarding and promoting democracy. "Simply put, democracy will wither without a free and independent media. For voters in a democracy to play their role and express their will, they must have accurate and impartial information available," he said. He further noted that the grant issued will enable the Guild to undertake training in investigative and ethical journalism, to examine the challenges facing media, and to work with the government and civil society to ensure accurate and impartial reporting. Godec asked media owners to incorporate women in the industry saying it was necessary to ensure there was full representation of voices. The ambassador said the Embassy will fund a Women in Media mentorship programme for a second year. This, he says will connect experienced female journalists, editors, and producers with young women just starting in the profession. GAA's Sh2.5bn debt ICT CS Joe Mucheru, who launched the convention, assured media houses that the government will pay Sh2.5 billion advertising money owed to media. "We are working very hard to pay the debt. I know that is the elephant in the room. We face pressure from above and from you ... The president always reminds me to 'finish with the media'." "The media debt is on my desk and we are doing everything possible to ensure we pay them in a proper way," he said. The CS made the pledge moments after Nation Media Group CEO Stephen Gitagama implored the government to pay up in a show of respect and so as to lead by example. Read: State urged to pay media’s Sh2.5bn advertising debt Kenya Editors’ Guild chairman Churchill Otieno said the media would win confidence of its consumers through credible and compelling stories. "Our people are more likely to embrace a credible media that they trust. This calls for professional excellence through compelling stories that manifest fidelity to fair, critical, fact-checked and complete reporting," he said. The Guild ended the convention with a ball at the Jacaranda hotel in Westlands. Click here for the latest political news