High flying National Super League leaders FC Talanta are out to extend their fine start to the new season when they play Kisumu All Stars today at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Talanta convincingly won their opening two matches and sit at the crest of the standings with six points courtesy of their healthier goal difference. They will face the win-less All Stars who are 12th on the log with two points. Talanta opened the season with a 3-1 win over debutants Eldoret Youth before slapping Bidco United 2-1 and hope to extend their recent rich form and establish themselves as genuine promotion candidates. The club’s head coach Juma Abdallah, who led his charges to a 1-0 win over Mathare United on Wednesday in a friendly match, is banking on the cohesion in his playing unit to bag the three points against a team which he lost to 3-2 in the last outing. “We are currently playing as a unit, going forward and defending well. We have prepared for the match well and I hope the boys will carry the day. We played a test match against Mathare United and I was pleased with the performance of the players. I am confident they will replicate the same form,” he said. Another unbeaten outfit Wazito are at Awendo Stadium to face a winless Migori Youth. Wazito, who are third with six points, have won their opening two matches while Migori are 15th with a point. Former Kenya Premier League side Nairobi City Stars are seeking their first win of the season as they Eldoret Youth at Camp Toyoyo. City Stars have lost their opening two matches and are second from bottom while the newbies are eighth with three points. Another debutant Shabana will be gunning for their third win against Kangemi All Stars at Camp Toyoyo. Shabana are fourth with six points while Kangemi are tenth with three points. Administration Police, who are fifth with four points, will take on a 16th ranked Modern Coast Rangers at Serani grounds. At Mbaraki Stadium. Fans will be treated to a Stima derby as Coast Stima host their Nairobi counterparts. Coast are ninth with three points while Nairobi are sixth with four points