Deputy President William Ruto has urged Kenyans to use diversity in the nation’s cultures as an instrument of unity rather than division. Ruto said leaders should take the lead in uniting Kenyans instead of dividing them on ethnic and political background to achieve their selfish interests. Speaking during the launch of various development projects as he concluded his two-day tour of Vihiga and Kakamega Counties on Monday, the Deputy President said time for politics was over and it was now an opportunity for leaders to serve Kenyans. “As leaders, we don’t have time to waste in stories and propaganda. Issues of political competition ended last year and it’s now time to serve the people,” said Mr Ruto. He added: “Kenya can only be built by leaders with development plans in education, agricultural, improvement of roads, health, the connection of electricity, initiation of water and technical institutes but not through stories and rhetoric,” said Ruto. He was accompanied by Governor Wilberforce Ottichilo (Vihiga), MPs Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Charles Gimose (Hamisi), Christopher Aseka (Kwisero) and former MP Bonny Khalwale. The Deputy President said the Government was committed to the unity of all Kenyans, saying it was the only way to accelerate development across the country. In this respect, Ruto said Jubilee leaders were now working harmoniously with their Opposition counterparts in addressing challenges facing Kenyans. “This is why we are here today with my brother Governor Ottichilo, MPs Mirema and Aseka among other leaders from different political backgrounds on the same agenda of serving Kenyans,” said Ruto in Emusire High School, Emuhaya. The Deputy President also launched the Ekwanda – Iwanda - Eshirulo – Maganda road, lighting programme for Mwichio, Eshirulo, Ilungu, Ebuyangu and Essaba markets, toured Emusire high school and Bunyore TTC both in Vihiga County before laying a foundation stone for Iguhu MTC in Ikolomani. Ruto, at the same time, said the Government would not be distracted by political rhetoric in the implementation of its development agenda for Kenyans. He said the Government was keen on ensuring successful implementation of the Big Four agenda, noting that the projects have the capacity to improve the lives of Kenyans. “I want you to know that this Vihiga County, for example, cannot be transformed through empty rhetoric. The lives of the people can only be changed through the implementation of development projects,” said Ruto. The Deputy President’s sentiments were echoed by Governor Otichilo who said his administration was working closely with the national government in addressing the challenges facing his county. “Time for politics ended last year. This is now an opportunity for us as leaders to focus on the implementation of development projects, “said the Governor. Khalwale told the Luhya community to abandon the Opposition, saying they will benefit more by working with the Government. “Our brothers Musalia Mudavadi and Moody Awori were vice Presidents and they have nothing to show in terms of development projects. It has just taken Ruto a short time to connect our people to electricity and improve roads for us among other projects,” said Khalwale. The former Kakamega Senator told Opposition leader Raila Odinga to call it a day in politics, saying his style of politics has been overtaken by events. Click here for the latest political news