President Uhuru Kenyatta has apologised for the confusion his government created over the implementation of the new curriculum. Insisting the competence based curriculum will be rolled out starting January 2019, Uhuru said it is unfortunate the education Ministry issued conflicting information. Uhuru was responding to questions from journalists on Friday during a round table at the State House in Mombasa. The journalists had sought clarification on the cost of implementing the new curriculum. This comes after county governments raised fears that the plan might not work as the government has not issued any information on how the curriculum will be implemented. CoG chairman Josephat Nanok in a statement said though pre-primary education is a devolved function as enshrined in the Constitution, the national government had remained mum on the cost and what each child will be allocated and whether it is the national government's budget or the county's. Read: Governors raise concerns over implementation of new curriculum CS Amina Mohamed had on December 11 told the Education committee that the plan had been suspended till 2020. "The design is fantastic. The devil is in the details of implementation. We need to have all the stakeholders on board," Amina told the Senate Education committee chaired by Uasin Gishu senator Kamar. Read: Kenya not ready for new curriculum. But Uhuru in his response insisted that the government will not back step on implementation of the curriculum. Uhuru said the curriculum is important because it will cater for the needs of the future generations. "We cannot have a situation where we churn out thousands of university graduates every year who do not have qualities to match the job market while at the same time we import experts in technology due to lack of skills. This is why to me the new curriculum is important because it holds what our future generations need," he said. Uhuru added, "Na ndio maana kwa niaba ya serikali yangu naomba msamaha. Nasema poleni sana kwa hio confusion ambayo imekuweko lakini nawa hakikishia ya kwamba tutarekebisha hio" (On behalf of my government, I ask for forgiveness. I'm very sorry for the confusion, but I assure you we will rectify it). Uhuru said all stakeholders are meeting to ensure that they read from the same script. He said the programme will however be done systematically, starting with PP1, PP2, grades one, two and three. This, he said, will allow time to learn on some hardships and take the lessons on how to ensure a complete transition. Click here for the latest political news