Kenyans who live outside the four counties piloting universal healthcare coverage will not be allowed to receive benefits of the programme. The residents will enjoy free health services that include surgeries and will have volunteers on call to advise them on treatment and healthy living. However, the beneficiaries must produce a Universal Health Coverage card, known as Afya Card, to receive the free services. Those cards are only being issued to confirmed residents with IDs fom Kisumu, Machakos, Nyeri and Isiolo counties. People cannot just move to one of the counties to benefit. The Ministry of Health says the control is important, otherwise, it will be difficult to draw any lessons from the pilot. An influx of non-residents would also make monitoring and evaluation of the pilot nearly impossible, complicating the national roll-out planned for the end of 2019. Participating counties are also to use their own funds for the pilot. “We are doubling our human resources to run the facilities. We are also restructuring our referral system,” Nyeri deputy governor Caroline Karugu recently told the National Assembly Health committee. She said the county has already enrolled nearly 100 per cent of residents into the UHC programme, now known as Afya Care. Last week, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said Kisumu, Isiolo, and Machakos were expected to have fully registered all residents by yesterday. In the pilot, emergency health services, non-communicable diseases, and mental health services will be free to those who cannot pay. Other targeted services are maternal health, child health services, major infectious diseases and medical and surgical services. “This builds upon the presidential directive of 2013 where user fees were removed from Levels 2 and 3 services in public health facilities,” Kariuki said recently. “Additionally, a fund for specialised services will be set aside to enable the indigent population in the four counties for access specialised services in Level 6 facilities,” she added. The pilot will cost the government Sh3.1 billion, sourced from taxes, but the ministry expects Kenya will eventually move to an insurance-based system. “It is a process and the package will be progressive,” Kariuki said. She said the package would focus on disease prevention and health promotion rather than treatment. “The reform will put the citizen at the centre of healthcare system. If we don’t agree that prevention is better than cure, then we will not achieve it,” Kariuki said. Machakos was chosen for the pilot because of the high numberof accidents on Nairobi-Mombasa highway, while Isiolo has a high maternal mortality rate and unique pastoralism. Nyeri has a high burden of noncommunicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension, while Kisumu has a high prevalence of communicable diseases such as malaria, HIV and TB. The goals of UHC are shaping the global health agenda, emphasising that all people, irrespective of socioeconomic status have access to health services they need, without incurring financial hardship. Read: What services to expect as Uhuru launches Universal Health Coverage pilot Also read: Universal healthcare a giant step forward Click here for the latest political news