Sports betting firm BetLion has launched operations in Kenya, promising to provide gamblers with opportunities to place bets in multiple sporting events. The company is driving a campaign of responsible betting and offering a unique user friendly platform for passionate sports fans. Furthermore, the company is ready to go toe-to-toe with betting giants Sportpesa, Betway and Betin who have had profitable success in Kenya. BetLion focus will be on online betting and like other betting firms, they can be accessed via the firm’s website and mobile app. BetLion managing director, Spencer Oketch said Kenya has developed into a hub for a lot of foreign betting companies, owing to the favourable economic market. “We opened shop in Uganda recently and it was only fit that we expand to Kenya—a country that is mature and respected due to its competitive betting market. We are here to serve the Kenyan people who have shown their desired interest in betting large to win big,” said Oketch. He also added that the firm is seeking a presence in eight African countries including Zambia and others in West Africa. “We have ambitions to become the only Pan African company in the region and we believe that together with our personalised customer service and the willingness of the African people to take up new ventures, we will be able to make that dream a reality,” he said. The firm’s entry to Kenya comes after the Treasury successfully pushed for a change in a law that cut gaming tax from 35 per cent of gross revenues to 15 per cent, caving in to pressure from betting firms. However, operations director, Peter Stagles, indicated that the reduction in taxation did not play a factor in their decision to join the market. “Our company was founded on the backbone of honesty and hard work. We are a sensible business venture and we are willing to work alongside the government and the Kenyan people to grow the sports industry in Kenya,” he said. Stagles further added that gamblers will from next year be able to bet on different sporting disciplines and the proceeds will go towards developing the sporting industry in the country. “In Uganda we were able to take some local coaches for training in an attempt to develop grass roots football in the country and we aim to do the same in Kenya if not more,” he said. Former assistant coach and captain of Harambee Stars who was the guest of honour at the launch urged the betting firm to come on board and support the national team. “Next year, the boys will take part in the 2019 CAF Africa Cup of Nations for the first time in about 15 years. At the moment, the team lacks sufficient sponsorship and even though you’re new in the market, I urge you to try and help the team so that the boys can go to the tournament with all the support that they need.”