The family of former MP William Murgor has failed to settle their dispute over sharing his Sh2 billion estate. The case was complicated on Friday when the Eldoret High Court was told that the former MP had a memory lapse by the time he died and could not have written a will indicating how he wanted his estate shared. Justice Hellen Omondi had advised the family comprising 34 children and four widows to resolve the dispute out-of-court. But efforts for dialogue between them failed and hearing of the case has started. Murgor served as Kerio Central MP during the Kanu regime. He had a vast estate that includes large tracts of agricultural land and commercial plots in Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet. Murgor died on September 28, 2006, leaving behind five widows, one of whom is deceased, and 34 children. Keiyo North MP James Murgor is the eldest son and head of the family. Daughter Enid Cheptanui moved to the High Court in Eldoret and sued the MP, his brother Francis and sister Chemutai over alleged mismanagement, biased administration and sharing out of the estate. She filed the suit through lawyer Phillip Murgor. Cheptanui sued after the three swore an affidavit, seeking letters of administration to manage the estate. “The affidavit sworn by the three is fraudulent, defective and does not disclose material facts leading to a monumental dispute within the family between those who have been favoured and those who have been disadvantaged or completely left out in the proposed distribution of the estate,” lawyer Murgor said. Cheptanui is backed by 11 sisters and two brothers. Murgor says his client sought an out-of-court settlement, but the MP and two siblings refused to call an all-inclusive family meeting to resolve the dispute. Lawyer Murgor says lowered mental capacity of the former MP made it impossible for him to give power of attorney to his eldest son James, authorising him to distribute his estate. He accused the MP of taking advantage of the mental incapacity of the former MP and his position as eldest son to execute a fraudulent scheme to disinherit some family members. “As the eldest son in the family, the MP has never shown any of his siblings valid power of attorney that allows him to distribute the estate,” the lawyer said. The distribution done by him thus remains illegal, null and void, added the lawyer who is a former Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). In her affidavit, Cheptanui says distribution of the estate violates the Law of Succession Act, is inequitable and unfairly favours children of one widow, Rosa Kimoi. She says the MP is massively favoured.“The proposed distribution has totally denied daughters of the deceased their fair and equitable or equal inheritance,” Cheptanui says.