Inspector General Joseph Boinnet has assured the public that security has been strengthened across the country as the Christmas festivities begin. He said that police have intensified patrols in places of worship, bus parks, malls, hotels and other places frequented by people as they commemorate the key holiday in the Christian calendar. The IG said that police officers will be visible everywhere across the country to ensure Christmas ends without any interruptions as the officers assure the public of their security. “Government has taken stringent measures to ensure that people are safe as they make merry. Security officers will conduct regular patrols,” Bonnet said. He said security has been improved in all major towns and counties ahead of the Christmas festivities. The IG who was addressing a press conference at Jogoo House yesterday said persons found driving while drunk will not be spared by the long arm of the law. Boinnet said some terror groups might want to take advantage of the season to attack people but police commanders in all counties have been instructed to beef up security in all areas. Read: You’ll lose your licence, NTSA warns matatu operators hiking fares “We will not take any chances and commanders in all areas have instructions to ensure maximum security,” he said. At the same time director general of NTSA Francis Meja who accompanied Bonnet warned that public transport vehicles found increasing fares will lose their licenses. He reminded PSVs that the arbitrary increase of fares is unjustified and cautioned them against ripping off customers. Meja urged all road users to speak out and report cases of arbitrary fare raises, careless driving, overlapping and overloading. The director general said a total of 2,995 fatalities have been recorded this year on the roads compared to 2,765 fatalities recorded in the same period last year. “This is an increase of 8.3 per cent,” he said. Meja said the month of December so far has recorded a reduction of 19.7 per cent when compared to December last year. Also See: [VIDEO] Passengers stranded as fares soar after night travel ban Click here for the latest political news