The Somalia government has for the third
time postponed presidential elections in South West State amid growing tensions
and rigging claims. The crucial election earlier set for
December 5 has now been postponed to December 19. This is the third time the
election has been postponed twice in November and now once in December. The election is a two horse race pitting
Mukhtar Robow aka Abu Mansur, former al-Shabaab Deputy Commander and spokesman,
who quit the militant group against Somalia's former minister Abdiaziz Hassan
aka Laftagareen. The government backs the latter. Insiders say the government wants to
unleash two other candidates in their camp to stand with the above two clear
favourites in the first round of voting and then announce their resignation and
support Laftagareen in a bid to sway support for him. However, Somalia's National Assembly
Speaker Mohamed Mursal, who hails from South West State, deferred with
President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo and Prime Minister Hassan Ali Kheyre over
plans to block the people's choice, Mukhtar Robow, from vying.  VOTE RIGGING In a recent meeting with President
Farmaajo and PM Kheyre, Speaker Mursal is said to have warned against plans to
bar Robow from contesting due to his past involvement with al Shabaab, arguing he
was cleared to run for the presidency and that its his constitutional right to
do so. He also warned of clear government support to some of the candidates. His views seem to be contradict the
government, which mainatains Robow should not stand and are putting measures to
lock him out to give their candidate, Laftagareen, a smooth victory. The Speaker also questioned a government
decision to send 150 heavily armed elite soldiers from Mogadishu to Baidoa on
November 30, arguing South West State already has more than enough personell to
safeguard the election. The Coalition for Change, which has
thrown its weight behind Robow, on Monday issued a statement after the polls were
postponed. The group said it fears the government is
planning to rig because the new date is not favourable for international
observers as most of them will then have left Somalia for the end of the year
festivities.  SINISTER MOTIVE The move to deploy 150 elite Somali
forces to Baidoa is said to be a plan to physically block Robow from accessing
the election venue on Election Day. If this sinister motive succeeds, locals
fear a public backlash and possible armed confrontation with local security personnel. The newly deployed heavily armed forces
presence in Baidoa is already causing anxiety amongst the 8,000 South West
State police and around the 2,000 Somalia National Army troops. Many of the
10,000 forces are believed to back Robow's bid. Robow, who hails from the Leysan sub-clan,
is viewed by many locals as less corrupt and one who can guarantee security of
the region because he knows how al Shabaab operates. He is seen as the best bet
to reclaim areas still controlled by the militants and also stop the unabated
wave of al Shabaab violence in the region. Laftagareen is from the Xariin sub-clan
but his mother is from the Darod clan, Marehan sub-clan, same as President
Farmaajo, who is said to his maternal uncle. He is viewed as an outsider imposed
on them simply because he will be a yes man for the government.  TWO PRESIDENTS There are likely to be two scenarios if
the government succeeds in imposing Laftagareen as president. The first is that
there is a likelihood of having two Presidents. One President for the government, who
will be holed up in the Presidential Palace in the outskirts of the city of
Baidoa and facing massive protests just like what happened in Kenya after last
year's controversial elections. The other one will the People’s President,
who live in the city and enjoys massive support of the people and majority of
the local forces not only in the capital Baidoa but the entire South West
State. The second possibility is that of
renewed clan violence in Baidoa and the rest of the South West Federal State.
This is likely to benefit al Shabaab and further derail the peace process that
has taken years to rebuild and used millions of dollars in donor funding. The 150 elite soldiers deployed to
Baidoa are likely to ignite violence during or after the election. These forces
seem prepared for any eventualities because they are armed to the tooth with
some really heavy calibre machine guns. The kind that can pierce through a
wall: Talk of 30 BKM and 2 Dishka. The international community has called
for calmness and the need to safeguard the hard-earned peace. But who is
listening? The government is said to be dishing out thousands of dollars to
sway the election in their favour and the opposition seems to be resolute in
their quest to win the top seat.  WHOSE WHO? An elder in Baidoa summed up the entire
matter when asked about the two choices. "It is better the devil you know than
the angel you don't know. We know Mukhtar Robow. He used to be a wanted
terrorist but he repented and we forgave him. He now wants to repay back to
society by bringing peace and development. He is the right leader because he is
not corrupt. Corruption is killing us." What about Laftagareen? "He is unknown here. I understand
he used to be a minister. I don't really know what he has ever achieved as a minister.
We cannot risk electing someone with no development record and no one can
impose such a leader on us." The people have spoken but the verdict
is still open. Who will emerge victorious? We wait and see. Come what may, Soomal, will closely be
monitoring the election and will bring you the unreported angles and the
nitty-gritty's of how everything went, including the good, the bad and the
ugly. 