  Imperial Bank depositors will access 12.7 per cent of their balances within 14 days, the Central Bank announced yesterday. CBK said the new access will bring the total recovery of locked deposits to 35 per cent. Depositors funds have been locked since the bank was put under receivership in October 2015 after it found to be operating two sets of books, with a potential fraud of Sh44.9 billion. Shareholders were accused for irregularly paying themselves Sh2.7 billion as dividends when the bank was not making any profit. The regular revealed this after accepting bidding offer from KCB which was tendered in early October. ‘’KDIC and CBK are pleased to announce the acceptance of binding offer from KCB. The offer includes granting access to 12.7 per cent of eligible depositor balances remaining at IBLR within 14 days of this announcement, subject to account and identity verifications,’’ a joint statement from CBK and KDIC said. The regulator added that the offer will result in a total recovery of approximately 35 per cent of original eligible deposits held at the date of receivership. It added that KCB’s offer will complete the loan verification process within the first quarter of 2019. ‘’The loan verification process is expected to result in further recoveries for eligible depositors of IBLR. Further details will be announced upon completion of the exercise,’’ the two regulators said. In December 2016, KDIC allowed large depositors at the embattled Imperial Bank access up to 10 per cent of their balances via NIC Bank. “Verified depositors will be able to access additional funds of up to a maximum of 10 per cent of their remaining deposits, subject to a minimum of Sh. 200,000 or the actual deposit amount for balances below Sh. 200,000,” said Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) in a statement. The first phase saw over 40,000 customers with less than Sh1 million get full accesses to their savings via KCB while depositors were able to access up to Sh1.5 million during the second phase. 