Nowadays primary school pupils can tell you that the basic needs of human beings are food, shelter and clothing and generally they expect that it is the duty of their parents rather than the government to meet these needs. These expectations reflect the true reality of a capitalist economy in which the means of production and meeting societal and individual needs is the responsibility of the citizens themselves whilst the proper role of government is to keep law and order, secure freedom, protect the community from potential enemies and facilitate production of goods and services by the private sector. These observations have profound constitutional significance. First, Article 40 of the Constitution guarantees a capitalist economy by providing for the right of every person either individually or in association with others to acquire and own property of any description and in any part of Kenya. Secondly, Article 43 recognises economic and social rights, which include the right to accessible and adequate housing and to reasonable standards of sanitation. Thirdly, Article 201 sets out the principles of public finance in the Republic, which include promoting an equitable society in which the burden of taxation shall be shared fairly and public money shall be used in a prudent and responsible way. Fourthly, under the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution the functions of the national government include making policies in housing, health and agricultural sectors whilst the functions and powers of the county governments include agriculture, county health services and housing. Viewed in this light, it is good that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda seeks to grow the contribution of manufacturing to the country’s GDP to 15 per cent, delivering one million affordable and social housing units; ensuring food security and achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) by 2022. It is easy to discern that three of the Big Four are general matters and only the housing component is specific enough to judge success or failure of Uhuru’s legacy projects. It is therefore ironical that so far the government has been quicker to roll-out implementation of the housing component and has provoked controversy over proposals to introduce a housing levy payable by both employers and employees. Last week, during the annual delegate’s conference of Kuppet, the union of post primary education teachers, Deputy President William Ruto was hard-pressed to convince them to agree to pay a new 1.5 per cent levy on monthly salary to help in financing the housing component of the Big Four agenda. There are five reasons why we should not be surprised that Uhuru’s usually persuasive deputy is finding it difficult to sell Uhuru’s housing scheme to taxpayers. First the housing scheme is founded on fundamental misconception of the proper role of government in this sector. It may well be true, as Ruto told Kuppet’s delegates, that 6.5 million people live in sub-human conditions but such a big problem cannot be solved by imposing levies on already overtaxed employees and employers. Truth be told, majority of the people targeted to pay this new levy have no decent houses themselves and so it is ridiculous to tax them so that their poorer compatriots can access affordable houses. Secondly, virtually every Kenyan that I know regards housing as the private business of every family and there are thousands of private schemes to meet this need. Truly speaking there is no critical mass of Kenyans that have demanded of the state to provide them with housing. On the contrary the people want water, sewerage, transport and access to mortgages to enable them meet the housing needs at the family level. Moreover, for the time being these Kenyans do not live outside but in say Nairobi, where I reckon there are at least 50,000 homeless families. In my view the government should concern itself with using ordinary government revenue to house such absolutely poor and homeless Kenyans and leave the rest to their own devices. Thirdly, the very idea of government delivering one million housing units constitutes a gross affront to capitalism in Kenya, whose private sector has built thousands of housing units in all the major cities that remain vacant because Kenyans are becoming poorer by the day to afford them. The way I see it government can do better by extending the three per cent mortgage rates it gives MPs and senior state officials to more Kenyans to go and buy the already built housing units. Fourthly, if the government and the entrepreneurs it backs are still determined to compete with the genuine housing sector investors, they should not do so on a mandatory basis and no Kenyan should be taxed to build a house in which he will not personally benefit. In short, Uhuru’s one million houses should be taken up by Kenyans on a willing buyer willing seller basis. Finally, the controversy surrounding Uhuru’s one million houses should awaken the government to return to its basic roles and acknowledge some brutal truths. The Kenyan people are poor and so is their government. China’s recent history should teach us that in a poor country it is not treason for some citizens to earn slave wages, live in sub-human conditions and to forego first-class medication in the short run provided that in the meantime government is ensuring greater production of goods and services that ultimately generate wealth to provide for such needs and future prosperity. Pretending that Kenya is rich enough to pursue the goals of a social capitalist state is the ultimate act of folly in my humble view. Constitutional lawyer kibemungai@yahoo.com