The Kirinyaga government has dismissed claims by Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira that it is blocking construction of a Sh19 billion medical research centre. Kenya Medical Research Institute plans to build a branch in Kimbimbi, Mwea constituency. The lawmaker said the county leadership had declined to hand over a title deed for the site. Kabinga has been a fierce critic of the administration. On Thursday, Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri said the county supports the project but wants residents’ interests considered first. “The issue is very complex. Kemri gets funding from donors and that’s what we are looking into. We have an agreement with the research institute and, in fact, we’ve already fenced the land where the institute will be built,” he said. mou first Ndambiri said they are coming up with an MoU to guide their engagement with the institute. They want assurances that residents will be employed and Kemri will build a level-five hospital. “We have to be sober while handling such issues, especially where county land is involved. We must agree on the benefits the project will bring to the county should we surrender our land. That’s the talk we are in with Kemri,” Ndambiri said. He said the project has not stalled as claimed by Kabinga. Governor Anne Waiguru is more interested in what Kirinyaga residents will get, he said. The deputy county chief warned leaders to stop inciting residents against the county government “through propaganda that will not help Mwea people”. Last month, Kabinga caused a stir during a baraza at Kimbimbi when he accused the county government of refusing to hand over the land title to Kemri. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Central regional coordinator Wilson Njega and Ndambiri attended. Kabinga said Kemri was relocating the project to Marsabit county and urged the county to move with speed and “keep its end of the bargain” with institute. Last week when contacted by the Star about his remarks, he said, “Hold that story. I’m here at Kemri in Nairobi with six MCAs from Kirinyaga and will be addressing the press before the end of the week with all the facts that I have.” By press time, he had yet to speak to the media. On Friday, efforts to get his comment were unsuccessful. He did not return calls.