Political leaders and security officers from West Pokot and Turkana have discussed how to contain and reduce perennial insecurity. They said dialogue must be maintained, stolen animals must be recovered and thieves punished.The region desperately needs development and agrigulture so people are not dependent on pastoralism with its archaic practices, they said. They met on Tuesday following the recovery of 52 goats stolen from Kainuk by raiders. They also recovered 20 others stolen from Kamunono in West Pokot. The animals were returned to the owner. Another 39 among 105 goats stolen from Kaakong were returned. Last week six people were killed along the border of the two counties last week in a retaliatory attack. The area has been witnessing relative peace for the last three years. In the peace meeting addressing critical issues at the root of banditry, the leaders discussed grazing land for pastoral communities and food and water security. The Pokot leaders promised to return the remaining 66 goats stolen from Kaakong while Turkana elders promised to return five cows stolen from Masol in West Pokot. They resolved to continue peace meetings and dialogue to stop the banditry, livestock theft and killings. The leaders called upon the governors of Turkana, Baringo and West Pokot to lead them in ending conflict among the three counties. They condemned revenge attacks against rivals and said the problem of Tiaty in Baringo should be resolved within the county. The leaders said culprits should be arrested, killed or sentenced to life imprisonment to prevent them from going back to disrupt peace in the community “Those who killed people at Kaakong, Nakwamoru and Takaywa must be arrested,” Turkana South MP James Lomenen said. Lomenen called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to form a commission to resolve the boundary issue. They promised to work together in ensuring order has been restored in the volatile region. They expect to roll out development projects like supplying water and fodder crops to farmers and improving education. The aim is to prevent total dependence on pastoralism for livelihood, and abandon archaic cultural practices like cattle rustling. “There is no way we can achieve development in the counties if peace does not prevail. That is why we have vowed to work as a team with all elected leaders so that we can restore peace that has evaded the area for a very long time,” West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said. He called upon the national government to increase security officers and equip police reservists. “I also urge the government to improve the infrastructure including roads, hospitals, and even factories to cater for the unemployed youth to be busy and not engage in criminal activities,” Lonyangapuo added. West Pokot Commissioner Apollo Okello said the criminals who participated in the thefts are known and will be arrested. “The community does not steal but individuals do, and we should have no blanket condemnation,”Okello said. Turkana Central Deputy Commissioner Alexander Mativo urged residents to report criminals terrorising the region and to return any animal thought to be stolen. The county commissioner praised efforts of the security team, peace committees and elders for helping in recovery of stolen animals. Kacheliba MP Mark Lomunokol cautioned security officers against laxity and blamed politicians for being catalysts of violence. “We have given you a go-ahead to arrest the criminals,” he said. Other MPs attending were James Lomenen (Turkana South), Peter Lochakapong (Sigor), John Lodebe(Turkana Central) and Mohammed Ali (Turkana East). They held peace meetings at Nakwomoru, Kamunono, Kapelpok and Turkwel areas.