A former Transport and Licensing Board chairman has called for fresh vetting of PSV drivers. Hassan Kamwaro said PSV drivers should also undergo medical checkups every three months to ensure they are fit for the job. “We had recommended that health inspection of such drivers be made mandatory every three months. This will include eye checkups and tests for other conditions which may endanger the lives of passengers such as high blood pressure, diabetes among other ailments,” Kamwaro said. He made the remarks as he sent condolences following an accident in Narok just past midnight on Saturday. Two people died while seven others sustained injuries during the accident along the Narok-Mai Mahiu highway near Duka Moja trading centre. Narok police commander Thomas Ngeiywa said the two, including a child, 7, succumbed while undergoing treatment at Narok County Referral Hospital. Three sustained serious injuries while another four had minor injuries. Sources within the hospital said the patients are in stable condition and have injuries in the limbs and head. Ngeiywa said the driver of a lorry going downhill lost control and rammed into the rear of a Toyota Voxy, which hit a saloon car. The saloon then hit another Toyota Voxy. The lorry was heading towards Mai Mahiu from Narok. On October 26, six people died while scores were injured at the same spot after three vehicles were involved in an accident. Read: Five killed after drilling truck crashes into matatu at Duka Moja The police boss urged the road users to observe traffic rules. Kamwaro urged the government to implement the automated driving licences for PSVs to help curb road accidents. He said the automated driving licences will enable the authorities ensure only qualified drivers are in charge of the public vehicles. “When I was serving as TLB board at around 2004, we came up with the proposal to have automated driving licenses with details of all the drives of public service vehicles. Currently about 50 per cent of the PSV drivers are not qualified, leading to rampant accidents,” he said. Read: NTSA decries increase in deadly road accidents Click here for the latest political news