December 10 will mark the 70th anniversary
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (an undertaking by the
international community on peaceful co-existence and respect for the human
beings). The UDHR gave an impetus to the freeing of colonies,
for the subjugation by one state of another people was completely inconsistent
with human rights. Once Asian and African colonies became independent on the
basis of UDHR, their citizens began to demand human rights of their own
governments. Many more specific agreements, global as well as regional, followed,
reaffirming the commitment of all regions and states to respect the rights and
dignity of all human beings. Today most countries’ constitutions have a Bill of
Rights, whether respected or not by the government. The scope of human rights
itself has expanded, particularly by addressing the problems of marginalised
communities.  A great deal of litigation,
nationally as well as internationally, concerns some form of human rights.
African states have agreed on a number of treaties binding their governments,
enforceable through Africa-wide judiciary and other mechanisms. Our aim today is to see how far mechanisms for human
rights in our own country have protected the people. Some groups have indeed sought
the assistance of African institutions—and we should continue to seek their
assistance when appropriate.  A major problem
is that even if a group wins, it is not easy to get our government (and not
only ours) to respect the ruling, though it good to see that the government has
set up a task force to implement the African Court decision on the Ogiek. But
all too often task forces are ways of not doing anything. KENYA’S DOMESTIC PROTECTION OF RIGHTS The 2010 Constitution is fundamental to the Kenyan scheme
for the protection of human rights, replacing the weak and inefficient norms
and machinery under the old constitution.  Human rights is the central theme of the Constitution. The Preamble recognises “the aspirations of all
Kenyans for a government based on the essential values of human rights,
equality, freedom, democracy, social justice and the rule of law”. Among the
values and principle underlying the Constitution are democracy, participation
of the people, human dignity, equity, social justice, equality, human rights,
non-discrimination, and protection of the marginalised (Art. 10). The longest
chapter is devoted to the Chapter Four — “Bill of Rights”— setting out both the
norms of rights and the rules and mechanisms for their fulfilment—but rights
appear in several chapters. The reasons for the recognition of rights are given
as to preserve the dignity of individuals and communities, to promote social
justice and the realization of the potential of all human beings. RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS The rights guaranteed go well beyond those previously recognised
in Kenya’s instruments. Apart from the familiar rights such as equality,
expression and fair trial, the Constitution security of the person, human
dignity, privacy, freedom of media, labour relations, freedom of residence,
environment, consumer rights, rights of person with disabilities, and older and
younger members. Rights to food and water, education and health are also
protected. People are granted various rights in state policy making and
implementation.  The role of the police
is tailored as service to the people, not their harassment or violence. The
people play a key role in the amendment of the Constitution—many key provisions
can only be amended or deleted with their consent—in a referendum. IMPLEMENTING PEOPLE’S RIGHTS, FREEDOM Rules alone are not enough. The Constitution creates a
series of devices to protect rights. The independent Kenya National Human Rights
and Equality Commission role is to promote, in several ways, respect for, and
develop a culture of, human rights, in not only public, but also private,
institutions. It must ensure Kenya complies with human rights treaties. It must
investigate whether public and private institutions observe human rights.
People must be free to complain to it about violations. It must take remedial
measures when violations occur. This is an important link between the private
and public—putting the Commission under considerable pressure. The commission
also publishes reports on the state of human rights, in different contexts. The
commission has been divided into two, one focussing largely on women issues—a regrettable
decision taken under pressure from some women. The state itself has a major role in ensuring compliance
with human rights. Its task has three aspects: First not to violate
rights itself. Second, it must (by laws and institutions) protect our rights
from violation by others. And it must sometimes positively fulfil our rights. Special regard is paid to the fulfilment of
socio-economic rights by the State (Aricle 21(2).  Economic and social rights (highest standards
of health and health care, and emergency medical treatment; accessible and
adequate housing with reasonable standards of sanitation; adequate food of
acceptable quality; clean and safe water in adequate quality; clean and safe
water in adequate quantity; social security; and education (Article 43). The Judiciary also plays an important role. Those seeking
the protection of their own rights or those of others who cannot themselves go
to court, or in the public interest, have the right to institute court
proceedings. The courts are instructed to follow the rule of interpretation in
Article 259: “in a manner that promotes [the Constitution’s] purposes, values
and principles…and advances the rule of law, and the human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the Bill of Rights”. WHERE ARE THE RIGHTS NOW? Nearly eight years after the enactment of the
Constitution, what is the fate of human rights? How are things different from
before 2010? The
Constitution establishes an extensive network of rights binding on the
government (and on the rest of us). A number of laws have been passed to
implement the rights, at least in their language. Examples are the Health Act,
the Water Act, the Basic Education Act, the Persons Deprived of Liberty Act and
the Right to Information Act. Many judges
have done much to enforce people's rights. Some decisions have been inspiring. Civil
society has also made use of the system for the promotion and protection of
human rights. Individuals and organisations are becoming aware of their rights
and beginning to take action to protect them.   The
government at both national and county levels could have done more. Civil
society, schools, universities, trade unions, etc. should promote knowledge of
human rights and how they can be enforced. Despite the
laws, government has on the whole failed us. It is disappointing to see
government itself sponsor laws that limit our rights unnecessarily –especially
freedom of expression. Against this our courts have been valuable allies. Worse
is the fact that arms of the state are choosing to use their powers in a way
that violates rights: to life, to security, and expression particularly.  Particularly outrageous is the way government
has protected the police against its terrible atrocities –indeed has encouraged
them. Despite a
lot of rhetoric about marginalisation, the constitutional ideal of equality — a
most fundamental right — is most markedly ignored or even actively trampled on,
including by state officers for whom personal wealth and aggrandisement are
dominant concerns. Kenya is a most unequal country. A year ago Oxfam said, “The rich are capturing the lion’s
share of the benefits, while millions of people at the bottom are being left
behind. If inequality remains at the same level for the following five years,
2.9 million more people could be living in extreme poverty.” Perhaps the greatest achievement has been that the
people themselves have taken rights seriously. Amnesty International Kenya has
just reported a survey showing that 70 per cent of Kenyans believe human rights
have improved since the Constitution. Fifty percent have stood up for their own
rights and 30 per cent for the rights of others. People are aware of their rights. They know that
Kenyans are not equal before the law – and that they ought to be. The salvation
of our Constitution will lie with the people. 