The Ministry of Education has summoned members of the steering committee on the new curriculum to a meeting on Friday to discuss the future of the new education system. Sources say the meeting will also discuss the challenges that have seen Cabinet Minister Amina Mohammed suspend the full rollout of the new curriculum. It is understood that the main reason the full rollout has been stopped is that there is no policy framework or a law to guide its implementation. "How can you roll out such an important programme without a law or at the very least a policy framework? We hear a policy draft paper was done but was never approved by anyone," a source familiar with the goings-on said. The other issue is the lack of proper training of teachers. It reported that the few teachers expected to implement the programme have only been briefed in seminars and workshops. Read: Kenya not ready for new curriculum roll out - CS Amina The curriculum, according to experts, should have been taught in Teacher Training colleges and universities before being rolled out. "The design of the curriculum is fantastic but the devil is implementation. There is no mechanism and evaluation mechanism," a member of the committee, who asked not to be named, said. There is also the question of money. A look at the Ministry of education budget shows there is no focused allocation for the implementation of the budget. When she appeared before the Senate committee on the Education last week, Amina said the country was not ready because the infrastructure was not in place and teachers had not been properly trained and pupils did not even have requisite furniture. Concerns are that unlike 8-4-4, the new system is child-centered, meaning teachers will have to sit back and allow children to think. "That means you will need the furniture that accommodates that. If this is not done it will be like the digital learning programme that has seen tablets locked up instead of facilitating learning," the committee member said. Those involved in the implementation of the programme further told the Star that there are now assessment tools in place that will help evaluate the new curriculum. Also read: CS Amina: Why new education system will be reviewed in January Click here for the latest political news