At least 15 people have been killed by youth gangs in Kisauni and Nyali constituencies in the last one month alone. Mombasa residents have raised alarm of the gangs. On Monday night, four people were attacked in Kadzandani area of Nyali constituency by machete-wielding youths. One person succumbed to injuries. The body is lying at the Coast General Hospital mortuary. Two others; Stanley Mbito and Anthony Mutunga are admitted at the Coast General Provincial Hospital Casualty Ward. A third patient, a child, was discharged after treatment. Last Wednesday, Tumaini Katana, a youth from Bamburi, was attacked in Kiembeni Maji Machafu area by another gang. Katana is at in ICU at the Coast General Hospital with deep wounds of panga cuts. The attackers reportedly don police uniforms and often ride on brand new motorcycles. They often attack in Kisauni and parts of Nyali area. Their attires are similar to those worn by the Kenya Prison officers. The Star could not independently verify the claims. On Tuesday afternoon, Kadzani MCA Francis Kombe and Mombasa politician Said Abdhalla lamented the rising cases of attacks in Nyali and Kisauni. “This new trend is very disturbing. We have recorded about 10 killings in Nyali alone where 20 others have been injured. Police need to intervene,” Kombe said. He said residents of Bombolulu and Bamburi were worried about the attacks. Kombe said the attacks are unique because the youths don't steal from their victims. Abdhalla, who vied for Nyali MP seat last year but lost to Mohammed Ali, said leaders ought to work together with the police. “We are losing so many people. It is very disturbing,” Abdhalla said. Read: [VIDEO] Insecurity affects 48 per cent of Coast economy - scholar Last week, police put up three posts in Kadzandani, Kadzonzo and Konkodia, where most of the killings have been reported. Mombasa police commander Johnstone Ipara yesterday said they have arrested 10 suspected criminals following the the Mnday night attack. “We raided a house where one of the ring leaders stayed, but he managed to escape. We will catch up with them as the ones we have arrested have shared vital information," Ipara said. Some parts of Kisauni and Nyali have become a no-go zone areas. They include Kadzandani, Vikwatani, Mafisini, Soweto Junda, Mishomoroni and Kwa Bulo, where the criminals have been operating day and night. Also Read: We feel safer in criminal gangs than with police - Kisauni youths Click here for the latest political news