The Sh 450 Million newly opened Mother-Baby Wing at the Nakuru Level Five Hospital has been hit by a shortage of health officers. The Medics say if the shortage is not addressed, it will hinder delivery of services at the biggest health facility in the region. The facility has recorded an increase of deliveries from an average of 30 to 40 newborns every day. Health executive Kariuki Gachuki said the new Margaret Kenyatta Mother Baby Wing, with modern equipment, has been attracting clients from as far as Baringo, Narok, Nyandarua, Laikipia and Kericho counties. "Previously, only about 30 newborns were delivered at the hospital. The state-of-art facility, installed with four ultra-modern theatres, will reduce maternal deaths," said Dr Gichuki. He however said that his Department has written to the Public Service Board to hire at least 20 nurses and at least three specialists to boost service delivery at the Maternity Wing. He said if the proposal implemented, the specialists will be able to attend to mother and children born with complications for a specialized care at the neonatal Intensive Care Unit (ICU) within the unit. The Nakuru Level Five Medical Superintendent Dr. Joseph Mburu said currently, there are seven Doctors-two hired by the county and seven from the university a the facility. He however said they were not enough due to their high demand of their services. “The ratio of the midwives to patients is big hence we need more nurses and specialists to enhance service delivery,’ said Mburu. The 250-bed maternity wing at the facility serves patients from Rift Valley counties namely Bomet, Baringo, Narok, Kericho, Samburu, Laikipia, and Nyandarua. The maternity unit is hailed as the second biggest not only in Rift Valley but in the country after Nairobi's Pumwani hospital. Nakuru has 14 sub-county hospitals. The facilities still face infrastructure, human resource, and drug supplies challenges. Maternal death or maternal mortality, according to the World Health Organisation, is the death of a pregnant woman or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration. He said the number of deliveries at the new unit is expected to increase to at least 1,500 in the next three months. Statistics from department of reproductive health in Nakuru show there were 49 maternal death in 2016. This increased to 66 by September this year. Neonatal deaths between January and September this year stood at 454 while still birth due to difficulties during labour, bleeding and hypertension was at 1,346. The maternity wing usually requires a radiology, orthopaedic, oncology, internal medicine obstetrician and gynecology to be able to render the much needed services.