Looking at the past, Femi One never seemed to be the least bit soft. We were first introduced to her in a little, cute turquoise dress on Rabbit's "Ligi Soo" remix video. She presented a perfect oxymoron, as she spit incisive bars with an attitude that clearly showed on her face. Moving forward, this was the sound she was going to be identified by as it superbly complemented her personality. Most times, her voice would channel the rhythmic intonation of a spoken word poet, which she skilfully combined with her ardent delivery. Just like that, she reached fame and was ranked among other notable Kenyan spitters. Not highly, though. For a significant duration, she stayed the same, trying to broaden her skill and make it as interesting as possible. In an attempt to secure the crown of Queen of Rap, she deliberately started a musical feud in 2016, calling out other female rappers. Some retorted, others snubbed her and those who felt left out joined the contest. However, the hype was short-lived, and just like that, the female rappers vanished from sight, like has always been the case. Now she's switched up. Since 2017, after she released the Kristoff-assisted "Tippy Toe," she opted for a mainstream sound. To ensure she earns a proper share of the market, she's teamed up with artistes like Timmy Tdat, Fena Gitu and Mejja. Signed to Kaka Empire, she now more than ever aspires to release music for the masses, but is she doing it right? Her latest track, "Tembe", is a clear indication that she's rebranding from her take-no-shit portrayal to a more desirable guise. She's no longer about a laidback experience; she now pays attention to her make-up, sense of style and her appearance. However, while she might have transformed from being an embattled rapper, there's not much happening with her current form. She knows what a good pop track sounds like but she's simply incapable of making one. In truth, the Femi One we knew back then was authentically conscious and many could relate. Her style, flow and delivery were so unique to her, nobody would really envision her fit into someone else's space. Kaka Empire could be responsible for this shift, as they seem to be set on releasing chart-conquering tracks. Her new move is so derivative it's hard not to nitpick, but better yet, it could still be the move that uplifts her career.