Human rights organisations want a task force formed to investigate extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. On Monday, DPP Noordin Haji and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i held a meeting at the Office of the President over the issues. They also met officials from Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri), International Justice Mission, Kenya Human Rights Commission and Amnesty International. Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said Haji and Matiang'i sought a strategy to deal with unwarranted killings and disappearance of suspects. The meeting coincided with the International Human Rights Day that was commemorated in Mombasa. Muhuri, InformAction, Haki Yetu, Lonamac, Manyunyu and MTY held a procession. The human rights activists said 71 people have either been killed or forced to disappear since 2017. “Thirty-four were killed and 37 disappeared,” Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said. Read: Human Rights Day: Families of extrajudicial killing victims want an independent inquiry He said Mombasa recorded the highest cases of killings at 18, followed by Tana River where five people were killed, Kwale (4), Lamu (4) and Kilifi (3). Auma said 17 people disappeared in Tana River, followed by Mombasa (9), Lamu (6) and Kilifi (8). Abdille said the right to life is paramount and everyone must be treated with equity. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said relevant authorities must end gross violations of human rights. He said the task force should be expedited. InformAction executive director James Shimekha said accusations that rights group was working against police is unfounded. “Human security is part of human development. The basis of security, therefore, is human rights. This two, therefore, are not exclusive,” he said. “We support the work of security agencies and we won't tire to remind them to do it within the Constitution. It is possible to do security work and also observe of human rights," Shimekha said. He said politicians should be on the first line of defending and promoting human rights. Also read: Changamwe police boss defends colleagues over extrajudicial killings Click here for the latest political news