Kariobangi Sharks will have their continental credentials thoroughly tested when they host Asante Kotoko of Ghana in a Caf Confederation Cup first round encounter at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The Kenyan debutants were in imperative form in the preliminary rounds, hammering Djibouti’s Arta Solar 7 in a 9-1 aggregate win last month. The youthful Sharks squad are currently enjoying the form of their life both domestically and continentally, scoring goals at will and their form is set to be put to scrutiny by the 23-time Ghanaian champions, who are angling at regaining their cutting edge in the tournament. Head coach William Muluya is once again set to face a selection dilemma in his goalkeeping department as two of his custodians, Brian Bwire and Gad Mathews, have been superb between the sticks. Mathews was deployed against Solar 7 while Bwire was on duty in the league opener against AFC Leopards while Harambee Stars trialist John Oyemba, who has been out for long due to a back injury, is also available for selection. As the Kenyan dug their qualification from the two legs, Kotoko christened ‘Porcupine Warriors’ were handed a bye after the Cameroonian FA failed to submit their representatives on time due to an alleged political interference. Under the tutelage of Charles Akonnor, who took over from Paa Kwesi Fabin in October, Kotoko will hope to make it to the group stages of the tournament for the first time since 2008. Under Konnor, the club have won nine out of their 11 matches with the rest being a draw and a loss. Meanwhile, champions Gor Mahia host Nigerian side Lobi Stars in the Caf Champions League at the same venue, tomorrow. Gor saw off Malawian champions Nyasa Big Bullets 4-3 while Lobi beat Cameroonians USM de Loum 2-1 on aggregate. It will be Hassan Oktay’s first continental match in charge since his appointment last week and the Turkish coach, who led Gor to a convincing 4-0 against Zoo Kericho in his first match is expected to summon the best from his camp. Oktay will, however, rue the absence of Ephrem Guikan, who struck a brace against Zoo, since the Ivorian attacker was not enrolled for the continental matches. Worse still, the club maybe forced to do without the services of Jacques Tuyisenge, who picked an injury against Nyasa at Kasarani. According to assistant secretary general, Ronald Ngala, Tuyisenge limped off a training session in the middle of the week but the club will be relieved to welcome back Kenneth Muguna, who was also substituted against Nyasa with a suspected hamstring. “Tuyisenge resumed training but limped off in the course of the week. I am not sure whether he will be available for selection. Muguna is back and I think he will be fit for the match,” said Ngala.