Nairobi Pastor Edward Mwai of Jesus Winner Ministry is the man behind the purchase of Uchumi Supermarket land in Kasarani for Sh2.8 billion. The pastor and three other men of the cloth have through Jewel Complex Limited paid a Sh330 million deposit for the prime parcel. Uchumi owes suppliers Sh3.6 billion and hopes the sale proceeds will help resuscitate the ailing retailer. A document seen by the Star names the three other Pastors as James Kiongo Mwai, Paul Gichohi Mutune, and Raphael Mwiti Thiauru. James Kiongo and Raphael Mwiti own 18.18 per cent of Jewel Complex each. A fifth shareholder Agnes Wanjiku Kiongo also owns 18.18 per cent of the firm. Pastor Mwai owns majority of the shares at 36.36 per cent while Paul Gichohi has the least shares at 9.09 per cent. The Star's efforts to find out the kind of investments the Church plans to do with the land were not fruitful as calls and messages to Pastor Mwai went unanswered. The document, a customer identification report from Metrol Corporation Limited shows that Jewel Complex limited nominal capital was Sh100,000 with the number of shares being 1,000 selling at Sh100 at the time of inception. Issued shared capital is valued at Sh 55,000. Court filings show that the troubled retailer entered into an agreement with Jewel Complex Limited to sell the land at Sh2.8 billion and that a deposit has already been paid. The filing is by UBA Bank which wants a share of the proceeds preserved by the court. “Kasarani Mall Limited has entered into an agreement for the sale and purchase of the said land reference number 25544, Nairobi dated September 17, 2018 for the sum of Sh2,800,000,000 with Jewel Complex Limited,” UBA Bank’s legal officer Maureen Gacheru, says in the court documents. Pastor Mwai's Roysambu based church is famous for hosting top politicians among them President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto especially during the election campaign period. astor Mwai is also on record to have prophesied the flop of ICC cases against President Uhuru and William Ruto, and the collapse of Coalition for Reforms and Democracy- CORD In 2016 which was then led by Opposition leader Raila Odinga.