President John Magafuli does
it, President Yoweri Museveni does it, and President Donald Trump does it as
well. One writer described Trump’s
action: “During a conversation about the possibility of drilling for oil on the
Indian reservations the President said, “just do it.” Tribal leaders responded
by reminding the president that numerous environmental regulations prohibit them
from drilling for the oil. The president responded by saying, “But now it’s me.
The government’s different now. Obama’s gone, and we’re doing things
differently here.” And President Uhuru Kenyatta
does it constantly. A Google search for “President directs” or “Uhuru directs”
comes up with endless examples. Monday’s papers included some
particularly ripe examples: the Nation
reported that the President “directed that scouts [members of the Scouts
Association] be accorded priority in all government recruitment”. And, “I
direct the Teachers’ Service Commission to deploy two teachers to each county
to coordinate and enhance scouting programmes in schools”. Other examples have
included directions that church schools taken over by government in 1953 be
returned within a week, and that electricity bills be reduced within a month to
accommodate SMEs. The Interior Cabinet Secretary and the Inspector General of
Police were told to produce, within 30 days, a strategy with “clear and
practical recommendations” to improve effectiveness in the police. On corruption, the
President directed that all state procurement personnel undergo lie-detector
tests, while the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission must enact regulations
to enable investigative agencies to access wealth declarations of public
officers. Miscellaneous directions
included to the National Transport and Safety Authority to leave manning of
Kenyan roads to traffic police; that Ministry procurement officers purchase
locally made products; that special KCPE examinations be set for students
unable to sit the regular exam; and County Commissioners prepare a report with accurate
data on all HIV positive school children. In the USA many presidential directives are in
written “Executive Orders” published in the Federal Register (the
equivalent of the Kenya Gazette) and available online. President Trump
produced 56 last year and 31 so far this. His “Just do it” directive was not in
writing. Most of Uhuru’s are not written (the HIV directive was in a letter to
County Commissioners). Under the Constitution Cabinet decisions must be in
writing. Oral directives by the President are probably quite lacking in legal
force.  US DEBATE ON EXECUTIVE ORDERS Our
government system is broadly based on that of the USA. There has always been
some dispute about the scope of the US presidential power to issue executive
orders. And most commentators would agree that the President has no power to
make law contradicting that made by Congress. The Constitution of
Kenya is slightly differently phrased from that of the USA. Our President “exercises
the executive authority of the Republic”, but “with the assistance of the
Deputy President and Cabinet Secretaries”. It is a more collective task than in
the US.  Nor should we forget that the people of Kenya are supposed to
participate in decision making.  THE WISDOM OF UHURU’S
PRONOUNCEMENTS Far too many of
directives fall into one (or more) of the following categories, the
unconstitutional, the illegal, the unwise, or the redundant. By the redundant we mean directives
essentially saying, “enforce the law”. Directives to the police to deal with
corruption rightly elicit ridicule on social media: Kenyans know perfectly well
that the police are among the most corrupt agencies, and to expect them to deal
with others’ corruption is unrealistic. And if they are capable, they are
already trying. By the unwise, we are
thinking of directives that have simply not had the careful thinking through
they require. That about returning church schools is an example. As Father
Gabriel Dolan wrote in the Standard,
“The roles of religion and the state will be severely altered and challenged if
this is implemented and it is inevitable that a variety of groups and opinions will
challenge this declaration especially as it is not consistent with the contents
of the current Education Acts.” But policies require
evidence, debate, consideration and they are not to be made by the President
alone. President has a Cabinet. It makes ultimate policy decisions that are
often then presented to Parliament, and that will very often need support in
law, which must be passed by Parliament, not by the President alone. It is also surely unwise
to announce decisions in public that ought to be the result of discussion with
those people appointed to deal with the particular topic, and those with
experience in decisions making: the Cabinet Secretaries and the civil servants
of the relevant ministry. To be fair sometimes the President probably has
discussed the issue with these people. But this “Because I say so” approach
undermines the positions of the Cabinet and the public service. It does seem
that the President has some difficulties in motivating his Cabinet members.
Maybe it is partly his own fault. Another aspect of this
approach is that it smacks too much of the “L’État c’est moi” – “the State is
Me!” associated with the French King Louis the Fourteenth (rather than
President Moi!). President Kibaki used to speak of the Imperial Presidency­ –
the tendency to fancy oneself a sort of elected monarch, and not a modern one.
It is also something we see in Kenyan politics far too generally: the obsession
with self.  UNCONSTITUTIONALITY AND
ILLEGALITY When the President says “we
shall give more money” to a certain department, or worse “Give more money”, this
tends to ignore the fact that money is voted by Parliament, not by the
President.  The President cannot change
the law by roadside declaration, but some “directions” do contradict it, as the
church school direction goes against Education Act provisions. Other serious thumbing
of the presidential nose at the constitution and the law include trying to tell
bodies intended to be independent what they should do. Telling the police, or
the DPP, what to do with particular alleged criminals is one example. The Court of Appeal
commented in one case, “Well meaning as the directive may have been, it gave
the impression, and we believe any reasonable person would have perceived it as
such, that the President was directing the EACC on how and within what period
to discharge its mandate”. And that was unconstitutional. Like everyone else, the
President must respect human rights. The High Court held that the President’s
HIV “directive” violated the right to privacy of HIV positive children and
their guardians, and the principle (also part of the Bill of Rights in the
Constitution) of the best interests of the child. The judge said, “The fight
against HIV and Aids requires strategic and informed decisions by the State and
all stakeholders involved in it.  Continuous dialogue would therefore be
necessary but all must act within the framework of the Constitution and
relevant statutes.” That recent directive
about Scouts must offend in several ways. It is trying to tell the military how
to do their job. It smacks of ad hoc-ery, and a desire to please, but not of
careful thought and consultation. It is probably inviting the military and
police to discriminate against non-Scouts, and the Teachers’ Service Commission
to favour a particular organisation, in a way that violates the equality and
non-discrimination provisions of the Constitution.  SO WHAT DO WE MAKE OF
OUR PRESIDENT? Either Uhuru does not
understand the Constitution or has no respect for it. He ignores constitutional
roles, and constitutional values and principles. He ignores the sovereignty of
the people, and their rights to participation in decisions that affect them, as
well as the responsibilities of government institutions and officers. He seems, again like
Trump, to prefer off the cuff, campaigning talk to responsible policy making
and serious governing. He weakens institutions by this self-centred posturing. We desperately needed the first president under the new
constitution, as Uhuru effectively is, to be committed to its values,
procedures and institutions. He has not turned out to be that president.     