A senior police officer was yesterday convicted of murder committed at Ruaraka police station five years ago. And the man’s widow, Peninah Koome, could not hide her relief that five years of anxiety had finally brought justice to her family. She told the press that Nahashon Mutua, who was the officer commanding Ruaraka police station, would not heed the pleas of her husband to stop immersing him in a drum full of water. All those years she was at pains when her daughter asked the whereabouts of her father, Mr Koome. “It’s been five years of pain, misery and fear and finally justice has been served. And as a family we are happy,” she said. High Court Judge Stella Mutuku said Mutua misused his authority as the OCS and disregarded the constitution and laws under the National Police Service standing orders. Mutua was charged with the murder of Koome in 2015. Koome was a cellmate at Ruaraka police station. He had been arrested and booked after allegedly having a brawl with his wife, then picking the baby and threatening to jump from the balcony with it. After his death, Mutua hatched a scheme to cover up the murder. Evidence on record showed that the former OCS used his powers to intimidate Koome’s cellmates to falsely report that Koome was assaulted by a fellow cellmate. Mutua then implicated cellmate Kelvin Odhiambo and charged him with Martin Koome’s murder. One year later, International Justice Mission filed a complaint with Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) over the false charges against Kelvin. The agency investigated and concluded that the former OCS had framed Kelvin. Kelvin was later set free. Thereafter the former OCS was charged with Koome’s murder. Read: Cop attempts to exonerate Ruaraka ex-OCS from suspect's murder Yesterday, the judge said she was convinced that Koome’s death was caused by injuries he suffered while at the station. She dismissed claims by the defence that Koome was assaulted by fellow cellmates. “The deceased was obviously struck multiple times, he tried to shield himself. After assault, he was left for death he was only taken to hospital the following day and dumped there,” said the judge. In this case, a metal rod was used and the deceased suffered injuries to the head, neck, face, and lower lip, eight broken ribs on the rights side and bleeding in the brain. She held that the demeanor of the three prosecution witnesses who were under protection was impressive. They all testified that they saw the OCS hitting the deceased with a metal rod on the head and his hands while forcing him to immerse his head on a blue water drum. Click here for the latest political news