Letter writing is the only device for combining solitude with good company—Lord Byron A few months ago, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi paid an impassioned tribute to Prof George Godia, former Education PS, for having taught him how to write letters at Nairobi School. Mudavadi said every time he reads poorly constructed informal or formal letters from young people, he is grateful to his teacher. Educators and communications professionals know that letter writing in whatever context is serious business. It needs intelligence and skill. It makes the difference between quality and poor education. It was not an accident that this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education candidates were asked to write a letter in their English Paper II. Letter writing is one of the skills taught under functional writing. This is a form of writing that requires students to express in words specific information, ideas, thoughts and feelings meant to mirror real-life scenarios such as how to make or do something, give advice, or invite someone to an event. If there is a skill that has practical and lifelong application, it is the ability to communicate, to think in speech and on paper—which skill is taught in all disciplines, but more deliberately in English and Kiswahili. The students were being tested on how well they have learnt the art of expressing their thoughts, feelings, ideas and information in a letter format. The examiner expects creativity, imagination, logical thinking and flow of thoughts, ideas, feelings, facts and figures. It is an exciting exercise. In real life and at teenagehood, where nearly all the candidates belong, it is wonderful to be able to write someone a letter! To put your thoughts into words, without restraint but with common decency, is truly marvelous. The students will need this particular competence all their lives. Self-expression in speech and on paper will define their lives. Self-expression or skilled communication is one of the finest skills general education ought to develop in learners. Great institutions are founded on great words, well-spoken or written. Communication lubricates the sinews that hold institutions and society together. Simplicity, clarity and conciseness are the watchwords. People remember those who helped them develop the skill. This skill has gotten many people jobs or spouses. It has also helped save an organisation or a marriage. Skilled writing, together with reading and numeracy, are important elements in career and professional success. The ability to read and write has enormous implications on one’s education. Progressively sophisticated reading skills as one goes through formal education means one is able to access and deal with all manner of knowledge. Knowledge about the arts and humanities; knowledge about mathematics, science and technology are accessible to the highly motivated and competent student in reading or studying. Beyond these lie more advanced skills: Critical reading ability and analytic ability to formulate complex programmes of action at work to solve problems. Ability to express one’s thoughts, feelings and ideas in speech and on paper is one of the refinements of an educated mind. You make your ideas clear and have the capacity to quickly understand and transmute the thoughts, feelings and ideas of other people and organizations with the required simplicity, clarity and fluency. The art of letter writing is divine. It connects people. It inspires them. It guides those that need guidance from the letter writer from afar. In a leader, letter writing communicates vision, purpose and values. It creates and sustains communities with shared vision, purpose and values. It also reveals character. Letter writing is not an idle skill. It is a creative force in private and public life. Part of the success and resilience of the early Christians lay in writing letters to individuals and communities like St Paul did to Timothy, the Ephesians, Hebrews and Corinthians. Letter writing was the lifeblood of 18th and 19th century bilateral relations between friendly countries. Letters still permeate the landscape of diplomacy despite modern communication technology where heads of state speak to each other directly. Letter writing still flies along communication lines within and across institutions. The thrust of this article was meant to urge school managers to expose students to as many real life letters as possible. A school library worth its salt should abound with books that have letters from great men and women. The letters will help the students see how various people think and write. Secondly, students will be able to appreciate the problems, tensions and issues the people dealt with thereby appreciate something about real life.