A school for 265 blind and handicapped children is broke and has run out of food. It may not reopen without the help of kind-hearted Kenyans. The St Lucy School for the Blind in Igoji, Meru county, owes suppliers Sh3.5 million and most suppliers won’t deliver more food and supplies. They insist on payment first. The school is in dire need of well-wishers help to settle the debt for it to smoothly take care of children and staff. The school caters for children who suffer low vision, total blindness, those with multiple disabilities and some of whom are HIV positive. Administrator Sister Judith Khavengwesi said they were overburdened by the challenge of taking care of the children, including some as young as three years. Forty-two of them living with albinism. The administration has no money for food, healthcare for the children and salaries for workers. “If only we could find well-wishers to help us get the necessary materials and to clear our debts because we do not have a way. We are appealing to those who have cxhildren’s interests at heart to come to their aid. Some, in addition to visual impairment also are physically and intellectually challenged,” Sister Khavengwesi said. She said the school’s 26-seater bus, which ferries the children for eye treatment at the Kikuyu Eye Hospital and other facilities, has been impouded at a garage in Nkubu town. “The bus needed an overhaul and needed to be painted yellow as ordered by the Education ministry,” Sister Judith said. “Unfortunately we have not taken more than 10 childrenfor eye treatment because the bus is being held at the garage because of an outstanding Sh528, 000 bill,” she said. Food uppliers also do not want to deliver more food to the school due to mounting debts, including Sh800,000 for maize, beans and green grams. Most of the 72 totally blind children do not have white canes to aid their movement, nor does the school have enough braille equipment and other learning mterials. Many of the children cannot learn. “Usually we depend on the Sh24, 000 the parent or guardians pay in annual fees but it is a big burden to them because they come from underprivileged backgrounds,” she said. She says some suppliers are understanding but even then the school must pay at least half of debts before they agree to deliver more food. The administrator said some of the children stay with their grandparents during the holidays because they are orphans.