President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga were on Friday awarded honorary degrees for exemplary service to the country. They were both admitted to the Degree of Doctor of Sciences, Honoris Causa of Jaramogi Oginga University of Science and Technology by Chancellor Vimal Shah during the school's 6th graduation. Read: Jaramogi Universtity to fete Raila with honorary degree for distinguished service "I appreciate the honorary degree and pledge to continue working strongly with Raila and all Kenyans to build a safer, more united, prosperous Kenya with equity for all," he said. "I will wear it with pride and humility." The President said he will commit more resources to universities and called for strict use of public resources for intended purposes. He also acceded to the request by JOOUST for Sh100 million grant to continue supporting its food security programmes. Uhuru said his administration is committed to ensuring universities will continue to drive not only the technological agenda but also the advancement of knowledge in all other fields of knowledge. Raila said they need the support of Kenyans to build resilient institutions, democracy, and an economy that works for all. "I feel greatly honoured to have been conferred a doctorate Degree of Honoris Causa and with humility, I accept this honour," he said. "Today marks a turn on the handshake and the support that followed was a demonstration to learn from past mistakes and prepare to be great. We must agree not to be divided by politics." Raila said they relooked at how their differences had impacted the country and realised unity is the solution . JOOUST Vice Chancellor Stephen Agong’ praised the two leaders for putting their differences aside following the March 9 handshake. He lauded Uhuru for his dedicated services, patriotism, and humanity. Agong' said Raila had contributed immensely towards public service, leadership and the expansion of the democratic space in Kenya and the region. Uhuru also commissioned a teaching and research laboratory at the university. The President launched the first pilot of the Universal Health Coverage in Kisumu on Thursday. Read: Uhuru hints at referendum to share power Meanwhile, COTU secretary general, Francis Atwoli has been awarded a Doctor of Humane Letters at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology Deputy President William Ruto will receive his doctorate degree on Friday next week at the University of Nairobi. Read: What services to expect as Uhuru launches Universal Health Coverage pilot Click here for the latest political news 