Doccta Peter Longa oozes opulence, suggesting he is a man with colossal amounts of money and fashioning himself as an awe-inspiring business magnate. From his taste in expensive wear, he cuts the image of a serious investor and a member of the elite. To his lawyers and associates, Longa’s persona was as mysterious as his businesses, with only a few things certain: that he had lots of cash, was quite appealing and a womaniser. In the corridors of justice, Longa was alays surrounded by a number of attractive women. Like all other fraudsters, Longa is a man of sweet but measured words and always confident. However, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti knows the 38-year-old Cameroonian’s ‘wealth’ is an illusion. Kinoti knows Longa as a sly serial fraudster with tentacles in vast money laundering syndicates who has seized every opportunity to defraud high-profile businessmen of millions in fictitious gold deals, disguising himself as a legitimate businessman. The chief detective defied multiple court orders in August and September to detain and eventually deport the Cameroonian, causing a standoff between Kinoti and courts. The standoff between Kinoti and courts started in July after Longa returned to Kenya illegally. Kinoti said Longa’s re-entry to Kenya was a clear disregard and violation of the law and should not be protected from the same laws he had violated. Longa was charged with obtaining money on false pretenses after coning an Asian businessman of Sh190, 000. He was accused of obtaining the money from Sharad Patel under the pretext of buying chemicals which would multiply the cash to Sh20 million. Detectives from Parklands arrested Longa at Village Market where they found him in process of defrauding another businessman. He was charged at Milimani law courts where he denied the charges before chief magistrate Francis Andayi who released him on Sh100,000 cash bail. However, detectives camped outside the Nairobi Remand and Allocation maximum prison where they arrested him on July 20 as he left, after paying the bail. They charged him with unlawful presence in Kenya. Longa was first deported to Douala in Cameroon by the late Interior CS Joseph Nkaiserry in January 2017 after he was found with fake US dollars worth over Sh1 billion in Nairobi. Police seized him and escorted him to his Karen home where they recovered the cash that he was planning to inject into the economy and 30-kg of fake gold worth more than Sh120 million that he planned to sell to unsuspecting foreign traders. The detectives later had told Nkaiserry at the time that Longa had several pending criminal matters but they had difficulties securing a conviction of Longa because none of his victims was willing to come out and testify against him for fear of ridicule. Click here for the latest political news