  Abdiaziz
Hassan Mohamed Laftagareen was on Wednesday elected President of South West
State in an arranged sham election that was predetermined and rigged in his
favour, even before a ballot was cast. This
after defying numerous calls by the Somalia Parliament, South West State elders
and well wishers to postpone the election due to massive bloody protests
following the arrest of leading contender Mukhtar Ali Robow. The
moment Robow was arrested in Baidoa by African Union peacekeepers from Ethiopia
on Thursday 13 December and flown to Mogadishu under tight security, there was
no question there would free and fair elections. That is exactly what happened
and the government must be ashamed. I also wonder how AMISOM peacekeepers
accepted to be used by the government contrary to their mandate of
impartiality. No wonder some Somali lawmakers have written a protest letter to
the AU Commission in Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian government and the UN complaining
about the conduct of AMISOM. To
prove that his arrest was pre-planned, on December 13, all South West State presidential
candidates were summoned up for a meeting by the Interim President Sharif
Sheekhuna Maye at State House Baidoa. Robow’s was obliged to attend. As soon as
he walked into the compound for the meeting Ethiopian forces pounced on him,
roughed him up before forcing him into a car that sped off. Somalia government
claimed he was not cleared to run for election due to his past history with al Shabaab
even through he was cleared by the election commission. They also claimed he
posed a security threat. All these were mere reasons to justify their illegal
action. The
saddest part is that Robow’s detention sparked a bloody protest in Baidoa that
caused the death of 12 innocent people, including a South West State MP. The
victims were shot by AMISOM Ethiopian forces and Somali Special Forces flown
from Mogadishu specifically to do the dirty job.  MASSIVE
BRIBES The
sham election in Baidoa is said to have been made possible by massive bribes
handed to the 147 South West State lawmakers. The election commission and
African Union observers who were the only ones who attended the public
relations exercise claimed to be an election were all compromised to legitimize
the process. The
bribes mentioned are mind-boggling. Each lawmaker was paid $20,000 in total.
Half of the money apparently paid to them on Tuesday, a day before the bogus
election and the other half paid after the government choice Laftagareen was
declared the winner with 101 votes and Adan Saransoor came a paltry second with
22 votes. Saransoor and the three other contenders were there to just fill the
numbers and not to compete. They must have also been bankrolled too. The
15 election officials were each paid $30,000, while it is also alleged that the
AU observers were also compromised. If you add all these alleged bribes handed
before and after the sham election in Baidoa, including an initial $8 million
paid to former South West State election President Sharif Hassan Sheikh Adan to
step down, it means approximately $15 million to $20 million was spent on this
sham process. Where does Somalia get such huge amounts of money to sway an
election? Protestors in Baidoa accused Qatar of funding the sham election and
the killing of their people. This must be investigated as it’s a serious
allegation and shows external support in fueling the violence in Somalia. If
you think the bribes paid are mind-boggling sample this. According to reliable
sources in Baidoa, the lawmakers were not allowed to go into the voting hall
with a pen or their mobile phones.  The ballot papers were already marked
the night before the election and hence there was no need for the lawmakers to
mark the ballot papers. If indeed this claim is true, then there was never an
election in Baidoa. This would go into history as the best rigged election.  LOADS
OF MONEY The
government team that oversaw the massive rigging was led by Interior Minister
Abdi Mohamed Sabriye as well as other cabinet minister and senior officials who
jetted into Baidoa a day before the election and brought in the money in US
dollars neatly tacked in boxes. Had they chose to bring in Somalia shillings,
they would have hired several planes to carry the cash load due to its high
inflation. It was easy for them to carry dollars. The
sham election of Laftagareen was all made possible because the main threat and
the people's choice, Robow, was out of the picture as planned by the government
to frame him and bar him from contesting. If indeed he has committed a crime,
why has he not been charged? Instead, he has been left languishing at a dingy
torture chamber in Mogadishu known as Habar Khadija, which belongs to the
National Intelligence Security Agency. The
way Robow was mishandled and held incommunicado reminds Somalis of the dreaded
Siyad Bare days when the Russian trained National Security Service or NSS
rained terror on political dissidents. Is dictatorship slowly crippling into
Somalia? Why go that far to kill people just to retain power? Exactly
28 years down the line and still reeling from effects of a bloody civil war and
destruction brought about by the same government crackdowns on opposition
members, the Somalia government seems to have borrowed a leaf from Siyad Bare's
autocratic military junta of crushing your opposition under all means
necessary.  ENEMY
OF STATE Robow
also known as Abu Mansur is a former al Shabaab founder and one time Deputy
Commander and Spokesman who fell out with the militants in 2013 and sought
refuge in his village in Bakool region, where his clansmen protected him from
several al Shabaab assassination attempts. He officially surrendered to the
Somalia government last year and is to date the highest-ranking Shabaab
official to have surrendered. The
Somalia government hailed his move a major success against al Shabaab. He wined
and dined with the President and other top leaders and was cuddled, embraced
and praised for his decision by the top government leadership. It is weird how
suddenly he has become an enemy of State. His
trouble started after October 4 when he announced his plans to contest for the
South West Federal State. This is because he was threatening a government plan
to put their man in power in Baidoa ahead of the main Somalia election in 2020
in order to help President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo retain power. What
the government never anticipated was the kind of public backlash and bloody
protests that engulfed the regional capital Baidoa after his arrest prompting
the resignation of Somalia’s Public Works Minister Abdifatah Mohamed Gesey, who
hails from Baidoa and is from the same Leysan sub-clan as Robow, to resign in
protest.  BENEVOLENT
TERRORIST Sources
say Robow used to be a benevolent terrorist as he was always against the
militants killing innocent civilians and is said to have twice handed over
Baidoa to government forces after Shabaab were defeated and refused to fight
over the city. It
is also said one of the main reasons why he fell out with his leader was
because al Shabaab attacked aid organisations in Somalia at a time when there
was a biting famine. He told the former al Shabaab commander Godane to first
close down UN offices in his hometown of Hargeisa before they can stop
humanitarian agencies from operating in South Central Somalia because that’s
tantamount to starving off his own people, while those in Hargeisa live off
from aid by the same infidels they fight in the south. He saw the plot as
hypocritical. Robow
is also credited for aiding the fall of Mogadishu in 2009, as he withdrew
majority of his Rahanweyn clansmen fighters out of Mogadishu after questioning
whether it is only the Rahanweyn who want to go to heaven! Because his clansmen
made the biggest number of foot soldiers for al Shabaab as soon as he withdrew
his forces, al Shabaab crumbled and lost the battle over Mogadishu. AMISOM and
Somalia Forces to date celebrate this fete. We should celebrate Robow too as
his decision handed us victory back then. The
people of South West State believe he is not corrupt and would be the best
choice to defeat al Shabaab because he was one of the founders of the group
knows their tactics in and out. If indeed this man can defeat Somalia’s number
one public enemy Al-Shabaab, who then in his right senses would not want him to
be President of Somalia let alone a small Federal State like South West State?
Perhaps President Farmaajo and his accomplices sense defeat and hence their use
of force to block Robow.  HEAL
THE WOUNDS Robow’s
treatment by the government is likely to discourage high level al Shabaab
defection in future. This is not good news because it simply means the Somalia
violence is sadly likely to continue unabated. Who wants the status quo to
remain the same? I sense double standards here and smell dishonesty. Abdiaziz
Laftagareen is likely to be a self-imposed President forced on his people but
is likely to be rejected. The question is whose interests will he be serving?
His masters in Mogadishu or his people who rejected him even before he was
rigged into power? Surely, the writing is on the wall. Whatever
the case, the onus now is on the government to release Robow, now that their
mission to rig the election in South West State has succeeded. They must
apologise to him and his supporters and find a common ground and how best he
could be accommodated into power in order to get the support of his massive following
in South West State to support the government and start reconciling communities
torn apart by the sham election and the violence and killings following Robow’s
arrest. This,
I believe would be the best choice available to heal the wounds left behind by
the government’s selfish interests in retaining power. Given Robow’s track
record and how different he was from the other leaders of the murderous gang
called al Shabaab, it would be foolish of the Somalia government not to make
use of his vast knowledge to defeat the terrorists if indeed their intentions
are good for their bleeding country, Somalia.  