Bilha Sumba doesn't know the whereabouts of her son Godfrey Shunye, 6, having last seen him before a fuel truck crashed on a matatu in Kaburengu on Bungoma highway killing 14 people. Bilha says she had just sat in the matatu, which was picking passengers heading to Eldoret, and noticed a truck heading to their direction in a dangerous swerve. She had come from Kakamega and was to pick the matatu to finish her journey. Then in a snap, she found herself in hospital, but without her son. The woman, who is admitted to Webuye hospital after the Friday incident, said she was yet to be briefed on the status of her son. Hospital authorities said they will give her the information of the son's death after she is stable. Kevin Wafula Muhona was also in the ill-fated matatu. He was travelling from Bungoma to Eldoret. He says the vehicle stopped to pick a passenger at Kaburengu. Wafula said he only heard shout to the driver that "We are dying!" He was seated in the co-driver seat. "I don't know what happened. Everything took place in a flash. I found myself stuck on the seat belt and was helped by first repondents." "God saved me. I was seated with the driver. He died and we were at the point where the truck crashed on the matatu...I saw God's work as I did not break a single bone," he told the Star at the hospital on Saturday. James Chesoli had just written a CAT at Kibabii university and was heading home when fate would catch up with him. The second-year Agricultural Extension student travelled in the matatu for only 100 metres before it was involved in the accident. "I don't remember what went on until I found myself here in hospital. I was at the back seat. I only feel slight pain on my back. I thank God for saving my life." At least 14 people died instantly in the accident which followed in the wake of assurances by authorities that no lives would be lost on the roads this festive season. The pledge was made by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and IG Joseph Boinnet after the death of over 50 people in a horrific accident at Fort Ternan, Kericho county. Read: 14 dead in Webuye matatu crash Click here for the latest political news