A seven-year wait for ‘justice’ for some employees sacked from a steel-making company in 2003 ended in disappointment after the court found the employees sued the wrong company. The 172 employees of Kenya United Steel Company Limited (Kusco) had sued Kenya United Steel Company (2006) Limited seeking some Sh35 million in four month’s unpaid salaries and terminal dues. However, Kusco was placed under receivership after failing to pay a loan from Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB). In 2005, the receiver-manager sold the company to S.R.M Limited, which in 2006 changed the name of the company to Kenya United Steel Company (2006) Limited. Employment and Labour Relations Court judge James Rika on December 21 rejected the employees’ claim saying the company which initially employed the 172 claimants has not been shown to in any way connected to Kenya United Steel Company (2006) Limited. The employees, through their lawyer Annette Mbogoh, from Kituo Cha Sheria, said they will explore other routes including challenging some of the issues in Rika’s judgment. Robinson Nzai, who was employed by Kusco Limited in 1976, said they will continue seeking justice arguing they have suffered since they were laid off. “The Labour court has made its decision, we will be going to the Appellate Court so we know exactly where our right is,” said Nzai. He said their families have not been the same since they lost their jobs. Mbogoh said the employees may challenge the judgment on whether the company that bought Kusco Limited was actually in existence when they were said to have bought it. The lawyer said they will scrutinize documents to find out whether Kusco Limited actually is not in existence. “Because there is documentation that shows that officially they are still in existence. However, on the ground, they are not. There are no operations going on,” said Mbogoh. However, he court noted that the process of them being declared redundant, how they were terminated, their rights under the collective bargaining agreement were breached. “But the question was who should be held liable. According to the Court, we took the wrong person to court. The one who should be held liable has already closed down,” said Mbogoh. “For now, we are going to review the judgment and see what ground we can get and then we await instructions,” said Mbogoh.