ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi on Wednesday hosted Jubilee Vice chair and President Uhuru Kenyatta's close ally David Murathe, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa in his Mululu home. Although Murathe went straight to the Vihiga cultural festival, his presence in Mudavadi's home was significant because he holds a lot of say within the ruling Jubilee Party. On November 12, Mudavadi was hosted by Murathe in his Gatanga home in a meeting that sparked speculation. Also in that meeting described as "a men-only club" were a few businessmen and influential political operatives who had been invited by Murathe. They included Capt Kungu Muigai, Uhuru's cousin and de facto spokesman of the Kenyatta family. Kungu is known to be in the President’s inner circle and is the patron of the National Council of Elders and inter-community networking group. Also present was former Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Volleyball Federation boss Waithaka Kioni. Also in Mululu on Wednesday were Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, his Vihiga counterpart Wilbor Otichillo, Bungoma's Wycliffe Wangamati, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Ford Kenya Leader Moses Wetangula. Apart from Murathe, all the rest went into a meeting with with Mudavadi where they discussed 2022 politics and what roles they could play. Mudavadi has been meeting a series of leaders from Central Kenya in his bid to build alliances ahead of 2022. It's the first time the Makueni governor has visited Mudavadi's rural home and his visit is significant, considering that he has openly challenged Kalonzo's hold of Ukambani. When he announced that he will retire in 2022, his supporters asked him to consider taking up a higher position. Mudavadi, Kibwana and Wamalwa are expected to announce their new partnership later on during the Vihiga Cultural Festival which is held on December 26 every year. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wagamati and a host of local MPs and religious leaders from Bungoma, Trans Nzoia and Vihiga were also at Mudavadi's home for the meeting.       