Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi has urged motorists and other road users to be cautious as they travel during this festive season. "Please, please, please take care. We don’t want to lose any lives and we don’t want to have any people injured." Mudavadi spoke after attending the wedding of former KPA managing director Brown Ondego’s son Camillus Ondego to Rizichi Kashero at the Holy Ghost Cathedral in Mombasa on Saturday. Road accidents have already claimed over 15 lives this festive season and injured many others. Chief Justice David Maraga and his wife were the latest prominent persons to be affected by the wave of accidents witnessed in December. The Supreme Court president and his wife were heading to church in Ngata when the accident occurred. They were moved to Nairobi for treatment. The CJ was discharged while his wife is still under observation at Nairobi Hospital. Mudavadi said many avoidable accidents occur during the festive season because in most cases people overindulge in risky behaviour. "We don’t want a situation where at this point in time, instead of taking money to pay school fees, you start taking it to a hospital because there has been an accident." "Let everybody be careful throughout. Let this be a time of reflection, peace, and healing," the former vice president, who was accompanied by his daughter Maryanne and son Michael, said. He spoke at a time thousands of Kenyans are travelling from various towns to celebrate Christmas with their kinsmen in the villages. The situation has seen hordes of people at bus stations as everyone attempts to get a seat in the few buses available. In a spot check by the Star, large crowds were witnessed in Nairobi's Machakos bus station, Tea Room, Great Rift booking offices, as well as at Easy Coach and Guardian bus stations. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet on Saturday asked police officers assigned to man roads during the season to leave nothing to chance. The police recently implemented daytime alcoblow tests for motorists to curb cases of road crashes arising from drunk driving. At least 500 drivers have been arrested across the country since the operation began, Boinnet said. Read: Police launch daytime alcoblow test to curb drunk driving 