The Homa Bay assembly has in the past few months been in the news for the wrong reasons. The 60 MCAs have continuously battled with the the county leadership, attracting the attention of ODM leader Raila Odinga, whose party has the majority in the house. Apart from the assembly leadership feuds, harassment, assault, impeachment, corruption and misappropriation of the public funds rock the house Even though the assembly leadership tussle seems to have been solved, the speaker’s issue appears to have remained the hardest nut to crack. Interventions by Raila and some top ODM officials to stop the squabbles have hit a snag, as the MCAs defy their directives. Kakelo Kokwanyo MCA Dan Were warned the party organs to stop interfering with the assembly’s activities, saying they have Standing Orders that guide them. Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo’s tribulations started after she failed to recognise a new team led by current majority leader Walter Dada. This was after chief whip Richard Ogindo and his team were kicked out. ‘Team Sanity’ immediately initiated the process of impeaching her in a motion that was moved by Ruma Kaksingri MCA Ellyphallet Osuri. Ayoo was accused of poor leadership, mismanagement of the county assembly resources, incompetency, failure to meet the integrity meet transparency and accountability tests. She was impeached but was reinstated after filing an urgent application at the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu. Justice James Rika said operations of the assembly would be hurt if the actions of the MCAs against Ayoo were left to stand. Seven MCAs arrested Despite the court order the MCAs went ahead and swore in Marieba as the acting speaker. Seven MCAs were arrested and detained at Kodiaga Maximum Security Prison for four days. This seemed to have fuelled the feud between Ayoo and the “Team Sanity”. Dan Were, Evans Marieba, Julius Gaya, Paul Ongoro, Walter Were, Philemon Onyango and Peter Kaula were arrested for allegedly assaulting Ayoo. On Thursday, Ayoo’s office was broken into and sprayed with chemicals. Three plastic chairs and a table, which the speaker bought on Tuesday after her office furniture was taken away by the MCAs, were broken. Olive branch Those who entered the office choked, some shed tears while others coughed. Security officers said the chemical is used for controlling pests on livestock. The assembly compound is under 24-hour surveillance by police and a private security firm. Kwabwai MCA Richard Ogindo and his Kanyamwa Kosewe counterpart Nicholas Owaka termed the incident an “assassination attempt” Ogindo accused some assembly staff of leading the attacks. Homa Bay Bunge la Wenye Nchi speaker said some MCAs are only interested in earning salaries and allowances while doing nothing to benefit residents. Ayoo has called for a dialogue with the MCAs calling, saying it is the only solution to their differences. But the MCAs have declined. “I want to call upon the MCAs whose lines I might have crossed to forgive me so we can have a peaceful talk,” she said. Kisumu political analyst Samwel Owida said the wrangles could be as a result of 2022 succession politics.