This year is shaping up to be one of the worst for investors at the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE) as prices of various blue chips fall to a new low. Already, share prices for more than a half listed companies have dipped since January an indication that the bourse which started 2018 on a wrong footing due to political uncertainty will likely end the year on a bear run. This poor financial performance has since seen investors’ wealth as measured by market capitalization since January drop by more than Sh400 billion if the Market Soundness Report released by the Capital Market Authority (CMA) in October is anything to go by. Several top stocks have fallen by between 27 percent and 80 percent since January, with six which includes: Kenya Power, Housing Finance, Deacons, Athi River Mining, Uchumi and Mumias Sugar issuing profit warnings. State owned retailer Uchumi Supermarket tops list of poor performers at the bourse with its share having fallen 80.5 per cent to trade between Sh0.70 to Sh0.80, down from Sh3.80 in December last year. Similarly, Athi River Mining Cement which whose trading at NSE was suspended in August after being put under an administrator over indebtedness has seen its stock decline 79 percent to trade at Sh5 on while battery maker Eveready fell 58 percent to stagnate at Sh1. Kenya Power share price at the Nairobi Securities Exchange has dropped by over 60 per cent in one year, worsened by alleged corruption scandals that saw senior managers arraigned in court last July. The power distributor’s share at the bourse was trading Sh3.15 by the time of going to press at having shed Sh8.15 since August last year when it touched a high of Sh12. Others whose value has eroded include Mumias (50 per cent), Home Afrika (53 percent), Kenya Airways (42 percent), and Nation Media Group (41 per cent). Analysts have blamed the decline of fortunes at the Kenyan bourse on foreigners exiting a number of blue-chips since February was the worst month at the bourse, with foreign investors selling shares worth Sh5 billion as they exited the market in politically charged environment moment after Kenya’s opposition chief Raila Odinga swore himself as ‘the peoples’ president. In May, investors sold off stocks worth Sh4 billion and Sh3 billion in September. In the 10 months to October, foreign investors had recorded net outflows of Sh27 billion from the market, outstripping the 2017 total of Sh11.6 billion. The third quarter bulletin by CMA show that foreign investor holdings were equivalent to 19.85 per cent of the 96.24 billion issued shares at the bourse, having come down from 20.2 per cent in January. Foreign investor holdings had held above the 20 per cent level for the past six years before fall equivalent of some 400 million shares. Local institutional investors account for 68.67 per cent of the total shares held in the equity market, while local individual investors account for 11.48 per cent. Even though foreigners at the NSE have less shares, they still dominate turnover, controlling up to 65 per cent of market share, an aspect that worries the capital market regulator. “As a consequence of the high level of outflow, foreign investors on the sell side have dominated the domestic market, accounting for about 65 per cent of the total equity turnover during the quarter under review,’’ CMA said in the quarterly report. The fall has, similarly, driven down other key indices of the market, with the NSE 20 share index falling to 10-year low of 2,755 points in October. The downwards trend has however started to ease; the wealthy index closed 2773 points on publication day. The Nairobi bourse’s plight is in step with a global trend that has seen investors de-risk by selling equities in frontier markets in favour of the US where rising interest rates have made the financial market more attractive. The Federal Reserve raised interest rates in mid-June and signaled that two additional increases were on the way, as officials expressed confidence that the United States economy was strong enough for borrowing costs to rise without choking off economic growth. Fed’s benchmark rate currently range between 1.75 to 2 per cent. The last time the rate topped two per cent was during the great recession of 2008. Other negative global microeconomics like US-China trade war and high fuel prices have also played role in negative trade at the Nairobi bourse. The Bank of Kigali recently cross listed on NSE, ending the bourse’s three year listing dry spell. It has also launched an incubation and acceleration programme dubbed Ibuka in a bid to absorb more private middle income firms after the much publicized Growth Enterprise Market Segments (GEMS) launched in 2013 backfired, attracting than six firms. The NSE launched the GEMS market in order to allow small and medium sized firms to raise capital, while benefiting from increased profile and liquidity within a regulated environment. Click here for the latest political news