The Murang’a government will deploy officers to man coffee factories from next month, Governor Mwangi wa Iria has said. He also said he will “renew the water wars” in January until the sector is properly structured, unified and run by the county. He spoke on Monday while giving out Christmas gifts to needy people. Wa Iria said many coffee factory managers collude with millers to dictate coffee prices at the expense of farmers. “They sit and agree to sell coffee at the lowest possible prices after being given bribes,” wa Iria said. He said misappropriation of farmers’ money and mismanagement of factories are some of the major issues hurting the sector. The sector supports more than 500,000 homes in Murang’a and could greatly boost the economy if well-structured, he said. Wa Iria said he wants to streamline the sector and ensure farmers get the pay they deserve before his term ends. The governor said he wants to provide clean and affordable water to all residents next year. won’t relent He said the water wars in the county, which started in August this year, will be renewed in January and he will not relent until the sector is properly managed and efficient. “The Murang’a Water Act passed early this month will start being implemented in January,” wa Iria said. The Act gives the county power to manage water and end disputes between it and water firms. He said he had taken a break from the fights to allow residents have peaceful holidays and pass the Water Act, but enforcing it will be his first agenda item in the new year. “Those who were thinking that I had given up on water should brace for a tougher fight in January and I’ll stop when everybody has clean, affordable water,” he said. The county boss said he also wants water firms to waive all debts previously owed to them by consumers. Wa Iria announced the county government has procured more than 500,000 seedlings to be given free to farmers during the long rains season. He said the county is leading in avocado exportation and his administration has distributed more than 300,000 seedlings since it facilitated contract farming between farmers and fruits processors in 2015. In 2017, about 3,000 farmers sold avocadoes worth Sh2 billion to the Kakuzi fruits processing company, which buys fruits at a minimum of Sh8 depending on their sizes. christmas gifts Wa Iria spoke at Ihura Stadium while giving out Christmas gifts to 1,000 disadvantaged people. The Christmas gifts were also distributed to Murang’a and Maranjau prisons and several charitable homes. The governor said his administration plans to fumigate the two prisons after receiving reports that prisoners were having sleepless nights because of bedbug infestation. “I have also made an arrangement to have bails paid for 100 petty offenders who are in jail simply because they cannot raise minimal bail and fines before the year ends,” he added.