Papa Remo Beach Restaurant, which opened in the mid-1990s, is one of the oldest eateries in the coastal Watamu. Yet it remains a must-visit spot for visitors to this region. Tucked behind a number of rocky islands, with a stretch of pure white beach and beautiful blue seas, patrons of Papa Remo are treated to stunning views while eating. This is barefoot dining because the tables are set up on bank of sand under a makuti roof shack that is open on all sides. The menu is Italian with some African dishes for a local touch. The plates are simply presented but the ingredients are very fresh. Naturally the menu is rich in seafood dishes, depending on the catch of the day, with starters like avocado and prawns, octopus with olives and Fish Carpaccio. Papa Remo makes their own pasta and serves it with sauces, such as homemade pesto, Lamu crab sauce and the ‘Papa Remo’ special of lobsters and prawns in a tomato sauce. Customer recommendations are the Lobster Catalan, Crab and Avocado Salad and the Batti Batti pasta made from a type of shellfish. We selected a number of pizzas menu from their extensive menu, which has options for vegetarian and non-seafood, too. For red meat lovers, there is the option of a hamburger, grilled beef fillet, or pan-fried Beef Scalopini. You can pair your main course with chips, pineapple fries, rice, vegetables or mchicha greens. Wash down your meal with a cool beer or chilled wine, or try one of their freshly fruit juices. Their bar also serves a good selection of cocktails. As dessert, we opted for ice cream made by Non Solo Gelato, a popular ice-making shop in Watamu. Papa Remo serves lunch and dinner daily. Besides the a la carte menu, there is a Wednesday dinner buffet, while a beach party with live music is held every Thursday night. For a longer experience of Papa Remo, there are sunbeds under umbrellas on the beach. For a small fee, you can relax here all day, and it is a nice place for children to enjoy as well.  LOCATION:  Watamu, Kilifi county CONTACTS: +254 41 2009174  Star Rating: 4.5/5