HIV has come a long way in the over 30 years of its existence. Today living with HIV is a very different experience from when it was first discovered. Advances in HIV prevention, treatment and care means the millions of people living with HIV (PLHIV) can now live longer and healthier lives. Yet, despite these advances, PLHIV continue to face unique challenges that impact their quality of life daily. HIV stigma continues, affecting those living with the virus and their support networks. We need to work collectively, as a community, to devise ways to address HIV stigma and discrimination. December 1 is World Aids Day, the annual global milestone dedicated to
raising awareness and showing support for PLHIV. This day was first
commemorated in 1988, and we are marking its 30th anniversary with a universal
theme dubbed ‘Know Your Status’. Knowing your status is the entry gate to
effectively tackling the HIV epidemic. HIV is preventable and treatable, and
knowing your status is the first step to addressing it. Testing is the only way
to inform individuals about their status, as most people living with HIV show
no symptoms of the disease. UNAIDS estimates 9.4million people globally,
translating to one in four PLHIV, are not aware of their status. Early diagnosis, enrolment into HIV care and treatment, as well as
adherence to prescribed treatment are essential in reducing mortality and
morbidity. Effective treatment is not only beneficial for the HIV positive
individual, but also plays a major role in prevention of HIV transmission. This is because when effective treatment lowers the level of HIV in an
individual’s blood to a level where the viral load cannot be detected, they
cannot transmit the virus to others sexually. This is commonly referred to in
HIV prevention, as ‘U=U’ or ‘Undetectable equals Untransmittable’. It is imperative we look at the full HIV picture and commit to
addressing it from all angles. Healthcare management takes a 360 approach, and
HIV is no different. We need concerted efforts as we consider the complete
spectrum in care and treatment — from testing to diagnosis, treatment and
optimal care — with the goal of ending the epidemic. This builds on an ongoing global commitment to tackle the 90:90:90
goals that aim to stop the spread of HIV and lead to its eradication, by
ensuring that 90 per cent of PLHIV know their status; of those, 90 per cent are
on antiretroviral therapy; and 90 per cent on therapy achieve viral suppression.
Also paramount, is the fourth 90 that is quality of life. Understanding the
challenges and needs for PLHIV and their support networks, is part of the
solution to improve quality of life. As a global community, we are making good progress towards achieving
these goals and attaining effective HIV care. Through partnerships, efforts to
remove the barriers to accessing care and treatment and addressing significant
unmet needs for achieving holistic HIV care, are achieving great results. There
is need to push forward innovation, disrupt the status quo, and work
collaboratively to end the HIV epidemic. Medical advances have enabled PLHIV to live increasingly longer and
healthier lives. Scientists continue to strive to find solutions to limit the impact
of life-long therapy on patients, focussed on new improved treatments, with
reduced risk of side effects, and that are less prone to development of drug
resistance. HIV is a virus that thrives on inequality and continues to be a major
public health issue, with certain communities disproportionally affected. It
presents with a unique set of challenges for everyone it affects, and this goes
beyond those who are HIV positive. Gender, age, culture and sexual orientation
are all variables that impact people’s individual journeys with HIV. A
sustained global response is required to ensure no person affected by HIV is
left behind, regardless of their income or where they are in the world, and
that they can achieve the best possible outcomes. GlaxoSmithKline and ViiV Healthcare offer a broad ARV portfolio and a
patient-centred approach to research and development. We are committed to
addressing the significant gaps and unmet needs for PLHIV and those at risk. We
believe in constantly building and expanding meaningful partnerships with the
Ministry of Health, professional associations, healthcare providers and PLHIV,
to improve treatment, access and care. This World Aids Day, show your support to the over 30 years of
progress towards ending the HIV epidemic and supporting PLHIV, by getting
tested and knowing your status. The change starts with you! For more information, please contact your doctor.  The writer is a medical doctor and public health specialist working with GSK/ViiV Healthcare  