A Kiserian family is mourning their six-year-old daughter who was kidnapped, raped, murdered and cannibalised. Police investigations revealed that she was gang-raped before her throat was slit and her blood drunk. One suspect was seized, beaten by  the public and handed to Kiserian police. He was taken to Ngong Subcounty Hospital where he received several stitches to his head. A police source privy to the investigations yesterday said the suspect disclosed that 15 boys raped the girl. They were partying in Githima village when they spotted her passing by. They lured her and she easily joined them because she knew some of them, the source said. They gang members then forced themselves on her one by one, before slitting her throat and drinking her blood, he said. They also ate some body parts. Residents were dumbstruck as the news emerged. Some said it sounded like a cult. Subjecting an innocent soul to such ordeal was unheard of — not even seen in movies, they said. The girl’s mother said they are traumatised. She said they cannot sleep because the gang is still roaming free. “My daughter underwent a lot of pain before she was killed. She had woken up to a bright day and was more playful on that Friday morning before she was kidnapped,” she said. The source said the 17-year-old suspect named all the accomplices and their parents. The police are searching for them. Initially, the police had linked the murder to members of the outlawed Mungiki sect. The latest revelations have baffled them, however. Residents are also scared that some of the other 14 suspects are on the loose. Yesterday, they turned to social media to warn parents against letting their children walk alone. They also posted photos of the arrested suspect. Doctors at Ngong Subcounty Hospital took samples from the suspect for examination. He is still at the facility. Ngong police boss Joseph Mwika on Saturday urged members of the public to be vigilant “Help us establish what’s happening with the youth in that area. They could be using drugs. Who is supplying them?” he asked, warning residents to be wary of the gang. 