Maumau veteran Dedan Kimathi’s daughter has refuted claims that her foundation is conning Maumau veterans under the pretext of issuing them with free land. Evelyne Wanjugu Kimathi has said Dedan Kimathi Foundation is in the process of procuring 59,000 acres of land to resettle the veterans. The land, she said, will be issued out to more than 8,000 veterans in four phases at a cost of Sh2.1 billion. Wanjugu who was speaking while issuing the first installment of Sh31 million to Mathira Kihindwi Kahonoki Farmers’ Association also noted that the foundation is required to pay Sh200 more to the farmers in 60 days. “In the agreement we have signed, the foundation will be required to clear the remaining balance in 6 months,” she said. In the first phase, the freedom fighters will get 12,000 cares, 18,000 in the second phase while the third and fourth phases will see 16,000 and 13,000 acres subdivided consecutively. Wanjugu said some administrative and political leaders have labeled the programme a scam, dampening the spirit of the freedom fighters who she said have been waiting in vain for the government to assist them. She said she would not dare soil her father’s name by conning the destitute freedom fighters and is working hard to ensure everything done is in accordance with the law. Beneficiaries are required to register with Sh5,000 which will go towards purchasing the land, she said, noting that majority of those who have registered have done so through the assistance of their children. The beneficiaries will get an average of three acres depending on its location. She said her foundation has so far managed to collect Sh43 million from the contributions and expressed optimism that it will manage to clear the amount it owes to the land sellers in time. “We are happy that we have been able to pay the first installment. Those saying we are selling hot air should now see that the procurement process has been set off and end the mistrust,” Wanjugu said. The payment was done in the presence of the farmers’ lawyers and members of the foundation chaired by Wanjugu. She said the numerous Maumau veterans’ associations that are marred by leadership wrangles have also made it hard for the freedom fighters to benefit from the government. “We agreed to keep politics off the foundation to show the elderly fighters that their objectives can be achieved without in fights and politics,” she added. Majority of the fighters, she said, have been living in abject poverty and without any property even after fighting for the nation. Some, she added, had their land confiscated over their hardline stands against the colonialists and given to collaborators. She, however, pointed out that their wishes to own the land that they fought for will come true through the foundation. The farmer’s association chairman Fredrick Maina confirmed that the farmers are selling their land to the foundation. “We have sat with the foundation and agreed on the payments and have received the first installments in the presence of all committee members. Let not people allow propaganda to cause conflicts amongst the beneficiaries,” he said.