The Kenya Airport Authority was left in shock after learning that a top bank had financed a loan to a company which had claimed ownership of its land. Documents tabled before the National Land Commission a fortnight ago showed that the Diamond Trust Bank advanced a loan of Sh70 million to Milicons Limited. Milicons is among the firms accused by KAA of encroaching on their land. KAA has in total lost some 11,551 acres to private developers. According to the documents tabled before the commission, Milicons Ltd entered into the loan agreement with Diamond Trust bank on July 8, 2015, over the land Ref No 25471 located in Nairobi. "Is KAA aware of this and does the bank still exist?" NLC vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe asked. It was not immediately clear if the bank indeed did conduct due diligence before the transaction. NLC commissioners Ema Njogu, Rose Musyoka, and Samuel Tororei were present during the tabling of the documents. KAA lawyer James Nyiha said the management was not aware of such a development as the people they are dealing with are strangers. "We do not know where they came from. Some of the transactions were done secretly. We are seeing some of these documents for the first time," Nyiha told the commission. The lawyer said the move to grab their land was 'highly orchestrated'. The grabbers, however, did not know that the original title was with KAA. Documents tabled with NLC showed that the parcel was initially meant for residential purposes. This later changed after the 'owners' got Nema and the Nairobi county to put up go-downs. However, the structures do not have approvals from the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority yet it is in their land. Nyiha said there were several illegalities and as such, those claiming ownership must be kicked out. The lawyer told the commission that huge bundles of title deeds were produced on December 31, 2002, when the government was transitioning. "There were no open government offices but there was a lot of anxiety," Commissioner Tororei said. Milicons has a certificate of registration of a mortgage dated July 8, 2015, by the registrar of companies. Mukolwe said most of the title deeds being held by those claiming land had been fraudulently acquired as KAA has the original title deed that has never been altered. Commissioner Musyoka expressed disgust after NLC discovered that some of the allotment letters were suspicious. Some had been typed using italics. "I have never seen this in my work life," Musyoka said. Some of the lawyers cried foul saying their clients were innocent and as such, they should be compensated. "A grant cannot exist on top of another. Who do you want you to compensate you?" Mukolwe posed adding that some of the documents were fake.