P olitical realignments have started, with Kanu chairman Gideon Moi becoming more visible, while ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is more vocal, four years ahead of 2022. A more energised Gideon Moi is targeting governors and the anticipated referendum to build his presidential bid. And his visit to Kakamega, where Mudavadi hosted him, triggered talk that the two could be planning an alliance. During the visit, ANC, ODM and Kanu legislators told Gideon andMudavadi to forge an alliance that will give the country fresh leadership. The MPs were William Kamket (Tiaty), Silas Tiren (Moiben), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Bishop Titus Khamala (Lurambi). However, Kanu secretary general Nick Salat says the party is eyeing “flexible Jubilee and opposition governors” as part of a bold strategy to support Gideon’s 2022 bid. The plan also seeks to gather support  for the anticipated referendum, which is expected to propose a parliamentary system. “Kanu is the oldest party in the country and we have the structures in place. We only need to put in a strong honest personnel to show that every Kenyan is with us,” Salat told the Star on the phone last week. “Ruto is really forcing himself under the banner of being the Deputy President. We are ahead and ours is to put our house in order,” Salat said. Critics have said Ruto is reluctant to support the referendum and is working to dislodge Gideon from the Rift Valley and national politics. Mudavadi, on the other hand has in the recent past thrown jibes at DP Ruto, questioning his church donations and wealth. Last month, the ANC leader said, “You can’t be telling us you are investing in heaven by giving out large sums of money that you can’t account for.” “The church should be careful with these people masquerading as being wealthy and giving out money that they have stolen from public coffers,”  he said at Kenya Assemblies of God Church in Buruburu, Nairobi. And without mentioning names — but what was largely seen as a response to Mudavadi — the DP called out those questioning his donations to churches but at the same time would engage in drinking until dawn. “Sasa wewe unalewa kwa bar hadi saa kumi na moja alafu unaamka unatuuliza nyinyimmetoa wapi pesa za kupeana  kanisa,” Ruto said at a Shaban FC fundraiser. The two were in Kanu in 2002 election.  2022 POLITICS The Deputy President, who is seen as the frontrunner, has been accused of engaging in 2022 politics too early for traversing the country, supposedly to commission development projects and leading harambees. However, Ruto has defended himself, saying his activities are in line with the Big Four agenda. “The people who used to accompany him (Ruto) are diminishing in numbers. It’s a result of the pressure of the electorate,” Salat said. In an indirect reference to Jubilee and NASA parties, Salat said Kenya will never be hoodwinked again that a political party is a vehicle, and will instead go for content. Insiders told the Star the senator is targeting second-term governors believed to be popular at the grassroots. “The governors will definitely front their people in county politics to succeed them. They will also have time to accompany the senator on campaigns,” the aide told the Star. The officials said county chiefs will strengthen his campaign machine at the grassroots and take up Executive positions if Gideon wins. “We are targeting governors because they are at home most of the time. They are with the people on the ground. These are the people we want first,” Salat said. Among the governors allegedly in talks with Gideon are Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Hassan Joho (Mombasa). Joho recently also met with Mudavadi. “You cannot win the presidency alone and that is why the governor is working with others, among them Gideon,” said Joho’s communication director Richard Chacha. Chacha said the talks have been ongoing. “We win some governors and lose others. The governors’ list is long,” the secretary general said. Joho has declared interest in the presidency, which he retaliated during the Blue Economy conference side event panel discussions. He was the first governor to meet retired President Daniel Moi, Gideon’s father, on August 25. He also held a series of events in an area perceived to be Ruto’s home turf. “In the spirit of building bridges and fostering unity, I was honoured to sit down with the former President ... I was fortunate to hear his wisdom on some national issues and thanked him for his time at the helm of this country,” Joho tweeted after the meeting. The meeting followed a courtesy call Gideon paid on the ODM deputy party leader in his Mombasa in May, igniting speculation of a possible political alliance. It was the first time the Baringo Senator and the Mombasa Governor were meeting  since they announced their presidential ambitions. It was also 10 days after DP Ruto met Joho’s ally and Kilifi governor Amason Kingi. Joho said they will tour the country together to preach unity and peaceful co-existence among Kenyans.Kanu officials said the party was fully behind the Kamket bill, which is sponsored by Kamket — a Kanu legislator —, proposing a Parliamentary system, so that the executive positions are shared to stop the electoral violence circle. “The Constitution, which Kenyans adopted, acknowledges the people as supreme and key on how they want to be governed and with what type of governance structure. The referendum is a must,” Gideon said. Mudavadi has, however, dismissed the referendum talk. Salat said Kanu will push for more Executive posts to create positions of the President, the Prime Minister, a Deputy President and two deputy premiers. The party has also drafted additional proposals following consultative meetings during a Youth and Women Congress. “We held a youth congress last week. We also want the youth and women proposals mainstreamed in the Constitution,” he said. Other planned activities are meet the people tours, county forums and registration of new members, all meant to raise the party’s profile. “We are not calling for the referendum but the Constitution dictates that we must revisit it after 10 years. We have to honour it and see where we can improve,” he said. Gideon has also met party delegates to strategise on the referendum and the 2022 polls. Also brought on board are the former powerful leaders who were allied to the party when it was in power. Salat said the party wants the Mount Kenya offices operational before the Year End. 