Five NCPB officials, an assistant chief and a trader have been arrested by EACC officers probing the loss of Sh5.6 billion at the cereals board. The seven are to be charged today. Investigative agencies are probing questionable payments for maize delivered to the National Cereals and Produce Board. Those arrested yesterday are Kisumu silo manager Willy Kipkoech, deputy manager Jeremiah Omutsani, cashier Laban Momanyi and Eldoret silo manager Renson Korir. Others are Sio ward extension officer Thomas Sang, Sinonim assistant chief David Korir and trader Rodney Kimutai. The EACC has been conducting investigations at the NCPB’s depots in Kisumu, Bungoma, Kitale, Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Nakuru. It has seized files on payments for maize and distribution of subsidised fertiliser. Already, Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe and NCPB finance manager Cornel Kiprotich Ng’elechey have been charged and are out on Sh3 million bail each. They denied charges of wilful failure to comply with the law relating to management of public property, unauthorised spending of public funds, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office, neglect of official duty, and fraudulent acquisition of public funds. Outspoken Rift Valley MPs Alfred Keter (Nandi Hills), Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany) and Sila Tiren (Moiben) want the scandal probed conclusively so those found culpable are punished. The trio last month caused a stir when they proposed that DP William Ruto and his office be investigated. The legislators told the DP to shelve his 2022 presidential ambitions and deal with problems afflicting the region. Farmers have threatened to stage massive street protests in Eldoret over scandals that have rocked the NCPB and the low maize prices proposed by the Strategic Grain Reserve Board. The NCPB still owes some suppliers. It has been accused of colluding with cartels to swindle genuine farmers. The farmers want to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta over the maize crisis, opening of the NCPB depots, price for new harvests and the Sh2.1 billion they have not been paid. Click here for the latest political news