Nairobi’s health sector will receive an extra Sh750.2 million after MCAs adopted the 2018-19 supplementary budget estimate. The sector had been allocated Sh6.9 billion in the main budget. On Friday last week, the Nairobi Assembly adopted the supplementary estimates for the county government and the assembly. With the new allocation, Pumwani Hospital will get Sh66.2 million for recurrent operations and Sh300 will be spent on other capital projects stalled in the health sector. Budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia said some funds were taken from inactive programmes at Pumwani. “The county wants to refurbish Pumwani Hospital and most donors and other partners insisted they needed something from the county,” he said. The chairman said 17 health projects totaling Sh133.276 million have been deferred to the 2019-20 financial year. Out of that amount, Sh80 million is to be reallocated to rehabilitate Pumwani Hospital, Sh23.5 to upgrade power to a Phase 3 in maternity units and other health centres. In addition, Sh29.776 million is to be used for purchase, installation and commissioning of EMR software and ICT infrastructure in the county. In September, Pumwani Hospital was on the spot after Nairobi governor Mike Sonko made an impromptu visit — complete with cameras and live streaming — and ‘discovered’ 12 dead infants wrapped in polythene bags. EQUIPPED MATERNITY FACILITIES It was said the facility lacked cold rooms which was the reason the dead bodies were wrapped and kept in boxes. Sonko has said Pumwani Hospital will undergo major renovations such as equipping the neo-natal ICU and maternal HDU facilities and setting up a satellite transfusion center to minimise referrals to Kenyatta National Hospital. He said the county will install a solar lighting and heating system at Pumwani to save on electricity, and ensure nursing mothers always have hot water in the bathrooms. NEW SURGICAL UNIT Last month, acting Health executive Charles Kerich said the hospital had finally been equipped with a cold room. Pumwani is also said to have extra delivery wards with at least 100 beds in the two new wards to ease congestion. Apart from the fully equipped cold room, Kerich said the facility has a new oxygen plant and a modern surgical unit for deliveries. The Nairobi City County Annual Development Plan 2019-2020 indicates the county’s health workforce stands at 3,464 staff but 5,200 are required. Among the 3,464 workers, technical staff — mainly public health officers, nurses, clinical officers and medical officers total 2,604. There has been shortage of health staff, not only in Pumwani Hospital but in all county health centres. In September, it was revealed that 253 health employees had retired. The Public Service Board advertised for the vacancies. Kerich said understaffing was a great concern and that 1,736 new health workers were needed in different cadres to achieve optimal staffing throughout the county. “We need to be allowed to hire even more. Shortlisting is underway but that staff will have very little impact as we still need more,”Kerich said. Mbatia said the county owes the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa) Sh384 million to clear bills. “Even as we progress and the county hospitals continue getting drugs from Kemsa, still have to cater for recurrent expenses,” he said. In August, Kemsa resumed supplies to all county hospitals by supplying Sh146 million drugs, ending a Sh227 million debt deadlock. PAY KEMSA DEBT Initially, Nairobi owed Kemsa Sh285 million and in July Sonko’s administration paid Sh58 million but the authority declined to restock facilities, demanding full payment. It supplied the last batch of drugs in February 2017 when it stopped due to non-payment. The lack of drugs led to the suspension of former Health executive Hitan Majevdia and health services director Thomas Ogaro.