Butali Sugar Warrior men’s team reclaimed the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League title thanks to a 2-1 win over local nemesis Kenya Police as the curtains came down on the top flight division at the City Park Stadium yesterday. Butali last won the title in 2015, Strathmore University dethroned them in 2016 with Police winning it last year. Frank Wanangwe bagged a brace for the winners in the 12th and 57th minutes while Amos Barkibir scored a consolation goal for the law enforcers in the 5th minute. Police’s experienced defender Richard Birir conceded defeat saying their opponents took their chances unlike his team. “It was a balanced game and it was about who used their chances well. Unfortunately, we got the chances but we didn’t convert while our opponents excelled with their chances,” said the national team player. “Our prayer is that we will get the chance to compete at the Africa Club Championship in Nigeria where we will seek to make amends. But if we don’t get to compete at the African event, we will just go back to the drawing board and plan for our next season. But all in all, the season has been good and we can only hope for the best in the coming season.” At the same time, Chase Sailors defeated Multi Media University 2-1 to book their slot in the next year Premier League. The bankers on Saturday had clobbered visiting Mombasa Sports Club 4-0 to top the Super League standings with 48 points from 15 wins and two losses. Multi-Media finished second with 45 points after 14 wins and two losses. In the women’s match, champions Telkom reigned supreme against rivals Strathmore University with 1-0 win to successful defend the title a record 21. Fast-raising Maureen Okumu scored the all important field goal in the 19th minute. Telkom Coach Jos Openda said their focus is to reclaim the Africa Club title they surrendered to Ghana Revenue Authority in Ghana early this year. Openda said: “Definitely, we are happy we have defended the title. But our focus is on the Club Championships. We just need to adjust our defence and improve on our forwards and we will be good to go.” The team of 18 players is set to depart for the host nation on Thursday morning.