Deputy President William Ruto has termed plans to amend the Constitution as a daytime dream. He laughed off plans for a referendum to change the supreme law saying Kenyans will not create more seats for "individuals who ought to retire from politics honourably". "As a country, we cannot change the law to have Kabuchai constituency merge with Sirisia or have some wards merging so that we create a position for someone in Nairobi," Ruto said. The referendum debate has seen Ruto rally his team to oppose the proposal as fronted by ODM leader Raila Odinga during the 2018 devolution conference in Kakamega. Constitutional change is among the issues that the Building Bridges team - which was formed to steer his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta - is taking views from Kenyans on. Among proposals the team is conducting public participation on is the proposal to expand the executive to create a Prime Minister's post and to reduce number of counties. It would require a vote by universal suffrage for any amendment to the Constitution to be ratified, a move that will likely usher in heated politics among the pro and antagonists. But Ruto, during the homecoming party of Sirisia MP John Walukhe on Sunday, said: "The issues of politics and election are way behind us. What we now want is total development for Wanjiku." He argued the leaders pushing for the plebiscite want to take Kenyans to unnecessary political wars. "They are saying that the MCA seat should be scrapped. Because an MCA takes care of the local people, the seat should be respected," Ruto said. He added that if there should be any debate on empowering local people, it shall be welcomed fully - but not a referendum. Read: Referendum is for idlers, says Ruto Ruto said Kenyans do not want politics of tribalism and hatred but needs that which will change residents' lives and build bridges of reconciliation. "I am humbly asking Bungoma and Western residents to embrace brotherhood knowing that every leader will be measured in terms of the vision he has to take Kenya forward and not politics of division." The DP said the Jubilee government has initiated a lot of development projects in Western that will better the lives of residents. "On behalf of Jubilee family, we will not be derailed by those who want us to lose focus but will ensure the Big Four agenda is attained fully," he said. The DP was accompanied by over ten MPs who promised to oppose calls for the referendum. Read: Fear of isolation changed Ruto's tune on referendum Also See: Referendum puts Uhuru, Raila and Ruto at crossroads Click here for the latest political news