Would you be
willing to engage in a threesome sex? Well, the idea looks perfect for a movie
script than a real life happening. But to one 27-year-old
woman identified as NMM, being bombarded with such suggestions was the shock of
her life, especially from a man she had always lived with as her husband. This ruined her sex life. It was distasteful. When NMM got
married to a 75-year-old UK national identified as GRS in August 2011, she did
not know she would have to share her matrimonial bed with another woman. They married at
the Mombasa registrar’s office and lived in Mtwapa. After a year
into the marriage, the unthinkable happened. GRS suggested to the wife that
they bring in a third party into their matrimony. NMM opposed the suggestion.
She could not tolerate the idea. Over time, the husband insisted and would bring
another woman, requesting they engage in threesome sex. Still, she objected
flatly. These are the
details contained in a court document filed by NMM when she sought divorce,
which the she was granted. NMM said the
husband used his hands on her private parts “in the name of having sex”. Read: ‘Threesome’ lady granted divorce The man became
violent and abusive and would beat her senselessly after she turned down the
offer. “I registered
my troubles with my parents, but they told me to be patient. My husband could
not allow me to report to the police,” she said in an affidavit. NMM said she
attempted to get a divorce from her estranged husband who however refused to
grant her. After filing
the matter in court and serving it on the husband, he ran to the UK never to
come back. NMM lawyer
Stephen Oddanga urged the court to grant her client the divorce so she could
move on with her life. Oddanga said
NMM had done all her best to keep her marriage, but it was difficult because of
her husband’s cruelty. He told the
court that GRS had once threatened to kill her. “As a result,
my client lost her urge for sex, lost her self-esteem and faced ridicule from society
since the husband had been ridiculing her openly,” he said. Judge Mugure
Thande, while granting the divorce, said cruelty and irretrievable breakdown of
relationships were statutory grounds for dissolution of a marriage. Thande said
she did not doubt the petitioner’s testimony on cruelty and the husband's move to
introduce a third party into their matrimony. She said the
parties had not cohabited again since their separation in July 2015; hence, the
union was irreversibly broken down. “I pronounce a
decree of divorce and order that the marriage between the parties is
dissolved,” Thande said. Click here for
the latest political news