Dear parents,  I appreciate your daily efforts and hard work to provide for your children. I understand sometimes you have to work up to later hours to earn that cash. However, my concern is about your children. You have left them in the hands of their teachers, and you hardly find time to talk to them. I wish that could change and you would have your kids close, just like the olden days when the family bond was the strongest bond. I’m writing this letter with an aching heart. Teen pregnancies in primary and high schools are the most saddening news I’ve come by over the past days. The worst cases are where the girl’s dad or a close family member is responsible. How sad! Most of the parents shy away from sex education. You not only leave the child clueless but vulnerable to the dangers of unprotected sex. Now that the children are on holiday, what can you do to make your kid’s life better?  1. Find time to talk to them and listen Don’t be an ‘always busy’ parent. Your kids need your time, and you’ll be surprised by how much they know. Boarding schools harbour a lot of children with different family backgrounds. Here’s where they learn and acquire some behaviours.  2. Be open Teach them about sex. Yes, they have been taught in class during those Biology classes, but that’s not enough. They need to be reminded every time about the consequences of their actions. Let your girl child know that her education will be hindered and she may conceive if she engages in unprotected sex. What about the boy child? Let him know that he’s capable of siring a child. Teach them both how to use protection, even if they aren’t sexually active.  3. Keep them busy while at home Take advantage of the holidays and teach your kids new skills. If you’re a businessperson, help them learn how you run it. They might be impressed and aspire to be like you.  4. Be conscious of their friends Bad friends lead to bad influence. Know who your kids are hanging out with. If possible, find out where they stay and who their parents are. This will help you monitor their activities and keep them close.  5. Minimise their visits to relatives Don’t always send you kids to relatives’ homes whenever schools are closed. Some uncles have turned out to be untrustworthy. If they have to visit, make it a maximum of a one-week visit. Your kids are your responsibility; don’t trust them with anyone else.  6. Show them how much you love them In our African society, it’s hard for parents to tell their kids the ‘love’ word. Nevertheless, show them that you care for them and that they can always trust you. It will boost their confidence and they will be open to talk to you.  7. Focus on their talents Does your boy aspire to be a musician? Take him to studios and let him learn from others. The current system of education encourages skill building outside classrooms. Take note of your child’s talent and start polishing it early. It may bring out the greatest personality in them.  8. Be a good role model You may not know, but kids are always keen and attentive to what adults do. They imitate their parents’ behaviours. Don’t expect your kid to be an angel if you’re a devil yourself. Show a good character, and that’s exactly what they will become.  Conclusion The best memories I have about my childhood are from when I spent time with my parents. I was a talkative child, and my mum was a good listener. I don’t know the kind of memories you want your child to have. But remember that beyond the materialistic things in life, children deserve special memories with their parents. They want someone who understands their emotions and helps them figure out a lot of things they may not understand. Be that kind of parent you’d like your daughter or son to become.