 Being designated
as “the greatest” is an aspiration for anyone who has breathed beyond the age
of formation: Those who in history who get designated as such is because of who
they become, not because that’s what they aspired to be. There are exceptions. One that is not
is Michael Jackson, who Wikipedia describes an American singer, songwriter and
dancer dubbed the "King of Pop" and regarded as one of the most
significant cultural icons of the 20th Century. He’s also regarded as one of
the greatest entertainers of all time, and his contributions to music, dance,
and fashion, along with his publicised personal life, made him a global figure
in popular culture for over four decades. Posthumously,
we — and generations to come — will remember him for many things, some good,
others not as good. On balance, mostly good. As a member of
the “Jackson 5,” even he, let alone the then five boy’s father, did not know he
was destined to the history books as one of the “greatest” in not only music
but in other aspects, even long after his death. The Jackson
Five signature song ABC , which is
most credited to having Michael distinguish himself from the rest of his
brothers from that early age (the moonwalk would do it), is epic by itself. And there would
be many to follow for the decades the young man mesmerised the world to his
death. One of them, is
Man on the Mirror, which the lyrics
follow that one should either discover for the first time what the message is,
or re-think and reassess as to its import, or more specifically, what they can
do about it: I'm gonna make
a change, For once I'm my
life It's gonna feel
real good, Gonna make a
difference Gonna make it
right As I, turn up
the collar on My favorite winter
coat This wind is
blowing my mind I see the kids
in the streets, With not enough
to eat Who am I to be
blind? Pretending not
to see their needs A summer
disregard, a broken bottle top And a one man
soul They follow
each other on the wind ya' know 'Cause they got
nowhere to go That's why I
want you to know I'm starting
with the man in the mirror I'm asking him
to change his ways And no message
could have been any clearer If you want to
make the world a better place (If you want to
make the world a better place) Take a look at
yourself, and then make a change. Question is,
what change? That can go
bottom up, or top bottom. Given the
stratification of society, “yourself” here as to be those most entrusted to
take care of the welfare of society for which they have the most noble duty to
provide but they don’t. If they do,
then, the rest of society should benefit from their nobility. If they don’t,
then the advice for men all over is as what Samuel Crocket put it, “To every
man his little cross. Till he dies. And he’s forgotten.” Those who’ll been
forgotten, it doesn’t or wouldn’t matter. Those who have
not been forgotten or wouldn’t want to, there’s still an opportunity: If you want to
make the world a better place, take a look at yourself, and then make a change
more than you have, if you think you have.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political
commentator in the United States  