Kenya will play neighbors Uganda in the quarter finals of the ongoing under 16 Copa Coca Cola Africa cup tomorrow, after finishing top of pool A with six points after thrashing Botswana 3-0. In the tournament played at Nakuru High school, Uganda finished second in pool C with 4 points after playing to a 1-1 draw with 10 man Mozambique in the third match of the day. Shafick Lutalo cancelled out Junior Musa's 14th minute opener to see the East Africans through. Hosts Kenya took the lead with only 30 seconds on the clock after Issa Rashid’s rasping shot inside the box caught the opponents defense napping, following Jacob Onyango’s cross from the right. Kenya maintained a high tempo with continuous waves of attack, but the Tswanas back-line led by Owen Baimile stood firm knowing what Kenya was capable of after white washing Ethiopia 11-1 in the opening game on Monday. Kenya had two quick successive corners in the 5th and 6th minute but, winger Kennedy Mwendwa headed wide, while Dioka Tumisang parried the second back to play from a Christopha Raila’s shot. Kenyan keeper Issa Emuria who was on holiday was called into action in the 18th minute collecting a feeble shot from Mhalibi Pako. Play maker Lukas Maina turned his make inside out to release Mwendwa who shot straight at the keeper in the 25th minute. The hosts dominated play and it was only a matter of time before the second goal. Maina was at it again releasing Answar Shamuni who placed the ball into the far post in the 27th minute, to double Kenya’s advantage. The second half started in a lower tempo with Botswana bringing in defender Kabanse Kabo in place of the color less striker Garagwe Lefika with plans to control damage at the back. Kenya coach Petero Mayoyo knowing they were only minutes away from clinching group A, made quick substitutions resting Jacob Onyago for Lugogo Juma in the 50th minute, before pulling out midfielder Isiah Rashid for Islam Abdul. The hosts made it 3 with Kenya under 17 defender Isaiah Abwal shooting through the Botswana traffic in the 68th minute, in the last piece of action. Despite the loss the South Africans also made it to the last eight with a single point that saw them finish behind Kenya, automatically eliminating Ethiopia on goal difference. Top side Kenya will play runners up in pool C on Thursday at 9am, while Botswana will take on table toppers Mozambique at 11am. Kenya coach Peter Mayoyo says he is ready for the Ugandans, and will have a different game plan as they seek to go all the way to the finals. “The Ugandans have a good unpredictable side but we will manage them” said Mayoyo. The second match of the day saw Nigeria beat Zimbambwe 3-0 to also qualify for the last eight, with three points after finishing behind Zambia who have 4 points in pool B. Prosper Chukuemeka opened the scores in the 31st minute before Williams Gift and Omadara Olamimilekanmade completed the routing in the second half. The last action of the day saw Tanzania book their place with a 3-0 win over whipping boys Angola in pool D, to finish second on four points same as South Africa who beat Angola 10-0 on day one. Tanzania will play pool B winners Zambia, while South Africa will be up against Nigeria. The semifinals will be played at Nakuru high school tomorrow, before paving way for the finals on Saturday at the same venue. Kenyan girls who beat the only opponents Zimbabwe 2-0 in the opening tie on Monday, play the same opponents in the return leg on Saturday after at Afraha stadium ahead of the third play play offs and finals.