AIPCA Nyandarua South archbishop Fredrick Wang’ombe has called on President
Uhuru Kenyatta and Nyandarua governor Francis Kimemia to intervene following
the demolition of his home at Rwanyambo village in Kinangop. His home, alongside 11 other houses belonging to family
members was demolished on Tuesday by former Councillor and powerful Kinangop
KANU chairman, Ayub Wang’ondu following a land ownership dispute which lasted
for 22 years. Their crops in the farms were also destroyed by hired youth
who had police protection. “We have informed the president about this matter. We have
also informed Nyandarua governor, the county commissioner and other leaders,
but we don’t know how powerful this person is that he would come with over 200
armed policemen to demolish our homes and destroy crops”, the cleric said He said the land was allocated to his parents in 1964 after independence but ownership changed in the 90s  "suspiciously". Wang’ombe said his father, Stanley Nderitu Ngari, moved to court to seek justice and doing everything to protect
their property unsuccessfully. His parents, he said, succumbed to high blood
pressure owing to stress from the court battle. "Now he has
left the children and the old, some of whom are sick, in the rain and cold”, he said,
adding that they will not revenge the loss meted on them as "vengeance
belongs to the Lord". AIPCA bishop John Maina, said the 5:00 am incident caught families by surprise and children were thrown out
of the houses. Resident Njuguna Waweru said locals will reconstruct
the demolished homes and put the government on notice that Wang’ondu will not
be tolerated in the village as “we cannot live with a land grabber here”. Speaking to the Star on phone yesterday morning, Wang’ondu
denied grabbing the 22.5-acre parcel from Wang’ombe family. He said he was
legally allocated the land and has all requisite legal documents, adding that the
cleric is lying, saying they too have land of
equal size. He said he won the legal contest against Ngari in
2012 but Ngari died before the resultant eviction order was executed, hence his
family objected in court. Another order was issued in 2014 but Wang’ombe family
objected again. Wang'ondu said he won again in February this year, and the High Court in
Nyahururu gave Wang’ombe’s family 60 days to vacate the
disputed land but they failed to obey, hence the eviction on Tuesday.