He is one of Kenya's most decorated coaches to date both at club and national team level. He has won domestic and regional titles and he has made history as the first tactician to lead Harambee Stars to victory at the CAF Africa Cup of Nations. Ghost Mulee, currently a popular morning show host with Radio Jambo and a football commentator on television is a respected public figure and one of the most relateable ones you could ever come across. Having obtained snippets from interviews that he had with SportPesa News, we will shed light on the past experiences of the decorated 49-year old and his views on the current state of Kenyan football. In this first part of the serialised series, Mulee who won three league titles during a 10-year stint with Tusker FC outlines the difference between the competition then branded as the Kenyan Premier League (KPL) and the SportPesa Premier League (SPL) as it is now known. “Football has money. There are many different reasons why people play the game today. During my time as a player and more recently as coach, passion was what drove players. There wasn’t much promise in terms of money,” Mulee started. “Back then, hope of employment through football was the most players could look forward to but the money has provided an incentive that is changing the outlook of Kenyan football to the world,” he continued. He went on to clarify that injection of money has not removed the passion in the sport, though the constant evolution is a feature that simply cannot be ignored. “The other day I attended the SPL awards and I saw the best player walk away with over KShs1million. That is something that never existed during my days as a player or coach. “Such incentives increase the level of competition in the league and thus improves the quality of football being played, which is a great thing for our local league,” Mulee underscored.  Harmonising calendar The switch to the international FIFA calendar will be fully adopted at the start of the 2019/2020 SPL season with the forthcoming 2018/19 campaign set to start on December 8 and end in May next year. To the seasoned coach turned broadcaster, aligning domestic football to the rest of the world was long overdue. “Such an abnormality in the calendar is not something that we should be experiencing and I’m glad that it has finally been addressed. Our league will now run at the same time as every other and that should help run things smoothly,” he remarked. According to him, the flip side of the new schedule could see domestic clubs denied the chance to play friendlies against international clubs owing to the title schedule where cup and national team football will be accommodated. With the Council of East and Central Africa Football Associations struggling to stage regional and national tournaments- the recent cancellation of the Senior Challenge Cup a case in point-Mulee noted the advent of the SportPesa Cup was timely.  Former Harambee Stars and Tusker FC head coach, Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee. Photo / SPN “It is a huge deal to football in our country. I have been lucky to be there for all editions and watching Wayne Rooney live in Dar-es-Salaam is something that I will treasure for life. “Having teams from Tanzania and Kenya battle it out in a regional tournament for an ultimate prize is something that we don’t see enough of nowadays,” he explained. “The exposure and level of competition brought out by this sort of competition is fantastic and has a huge impact on the development of football in the East African region,” he continued. Mulee worked as a television commentator at the 2017 and 2018 editions of the eight-team invitational tournaments where Gor Mahia FC romped to the title to win the ticket to play English Premier League side, Everton FC in Tanzania and on November 6, at Goodison Park. Such opportunities, he concurs are a throwback to the golden age of local football in the 1980s when the country was a force in the game, attracting European opposition to these shores. “I remember Norwich City FC coming to play in Kenya when I was at Volcanoes FC and Borussia Monchengladbach made the trip as well but a Kenyan side going to play abroad was unheard of. “The SportPesa Cup provided this incredible opportunity and it isn’t something that should be taken lightly. The international interest it has brought to our clubs and the exposure gained is highly impactful to football development in Kenya,” Mulee stated.  Great tournament The third edition of the competition kicks off in Tanzania on January 22 with Mulee predicting Gor have work on their words to three-peat as champions. “I’m really looking forward to the 2019 edition of the SportPesa Cup. Teams have boosted their squads and are working toward changing their mentality that means we are in for a great tournament. “Gor will not have it easy as every other team wants to be in their position and strive to get a similar opportunity to play against a team such as Everton,” he explained. Gor will put their title on the line against domestic archrivals AFC Leopards SC, SportPesa Shield winners, Kariobangi Sharks FC and Bandari FC who finished second to them in the league. From Tanzania, his former side, Yanga SC, fellow giants and 2018 beaten finalists, Simba SC, Singida United FC and debutants Mbao FC complete the roster. “Teams like Simba have really invested because they know what’s at stake if they are to win. The tournament will be massive and the level of football that will be played will be on a class of it’s own,” he underlined. He was alluding to among others the signing of last year’s Player of the Tournament and top scorer, Meddie Kagere who jumped ship from Gor to Wekundu wa Msimbazi following his barnstorming Super Cup at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru.  - Continued in Part 2