The condition of mattresses and pillows is important for your sleep. Good rest is not only dependent on the amount of hours spent in bed, but by the quality and hygiene of the beddings. Fresh sets of regularly changed bed sheets are not sufficient to keep your mattress clean. Rakesh shah, the CEO of Vitafoam Products Limited, explained: “We spend an average of eight hours a day sleeping, which equates to a third of our lifetime. Therefore, it is important to be careful when purchasing mattresses. With so many types of foams on the market, customers find it difficult to choose the right one. The major key aspect of a good mattress is hygiene.” “Mattresses are known to contain the highest amount of dirt in a home. That is why our Vitafoam layers are treated with Nano-Technology protection, which protects customers against mosquitoes, dust mites, bedbugs and bacteria. In addition, these are non-allergenic and have an open cell structure with breathable properties. Air and moisture freely flows through our foam mattresses. “Non -hygienic mattresses or pillows can lead to poor quality sleep, which contributes to depression, low concentration, high blood pressure, heart disease and in some cases it is associated with mental illness.” “The two most popular foam mattresses in the world are Memory and High Resilience, which have transformed the way we think about mattresses. Both foams are found in our showrooms and dealer outlets, and are treated with Vita–Premium protection to achieve the highest level of customer satisfaction. “Experts recommend memory foam mattresses for improved rest and relief from complaints like back pain. High resilient foam provides a sleeping surface with even distribution of pressure that is both comfortable and durable. “Quality sleep is one of the pillars to good health. Therefore, sleeping on a hygienic mattress gives you total peace of mind and improves your physical and emotional wellness,” concluded Rakesh. Vitafoam Products Limited specialises in manufacturing flexible polyurethane foam products. These include mattresses, foam sheets, cushions, carpet underlay, bolsters and pillows of different densities and sizes. The company has modern showrooms along Mombasa Road and Muthithi Road in Westlands. All the mattresses are manufactured at the Company’s factory, which is situated on ICDC Road (Maasai Road) off the Mombasa Road.