Telkom Kenya yesterday continued with their winning run as they demolished home side Delta Queens 4-1 in their third match of the ongoing Africa Cup for Club Championship at Abuja National Stadium, Nigeria. The nine-time African champions started the first half in impressive fashion, dominating play and pressing hard when needed. Captain Tracy Karanja once again gave the Kenyan side an early lead in the first quarter and seven minutes Jacqueline Wangeci added a second to put Kenyan queens on course. Telkom went into the break with a comfortable 3-0 lead following a third goal from Barbara Nekesa. An early goal in the second half from Delta’s Billo Esther was not enough to inspire a comeback as Jos Openda’s side sealed the victory after Wangeci got her second and the team’s fourth goal in the 55th minute. “The first two quarters were quite impressive but I still believe we can improve on the way we finish off the matches. The last two quarters were quite nervy as we didn’t give a good account of ourselves,” said coach Openda. “With Tuesday (toady) being a rest day, we are going to work on our finishing in preparation for the next match against Kada Queens,” added Openda. The win saw Telkom, who lost the title during the last edition to Ghana Revenue Authority, cement their position at the top of the standings with maximum nine points from three games. They started off the title hunt on Saturday with an edgy 2-1 win against Ghana Police with two goals from Jackline Mwangi and a last minute winner from forward Audrey Omaido. On Sunday, they convincingly beat compatriots United States International University of Africa USIU ‘A’ Spartans 4-0 with goals coming from Karanja, Omaido, Lilian Aura and Terry Juma. Meanwhile, debutants USIU ‘A’ Spartans suffered their second consecutive loss to defending champions Ghana Revenue Authority. The students who came into the match determined to cause an upset went into the break a goal down early in the second quarter and held onto the lead the entire match. Despite losing, the Spartans can walk with the head held high knowing they only conceded a goal to a team that beat giants Telkom in last year’s final. The loss leaves the students in limbo as they continue their search for a first win. The Spartans drew their opening match 1-1 against home side Delta Queens before being humiliated 4-0 by compatriots Telkom.