A Central Kenya MP who has slowed down his campaigns for Deputy President William Ruto no longer attends public and church Harambees in his constituency. Has he run poor after the financial vaults were closed a few weeks ago? Well, those close to him say he longer visits the Harambee House Annex on Thursdays for weekend donations, forcing him to take a strategic retreat from the limelight. Our mole avers that the DP was unhappy when the MP accompanied opposition leader Raila Odinga to some meeting in Kiambu County recently. The DP is said to be ignoring the MP’s calls of late amid talk that the lawmaker's fiercest competitor in the last general election is endearing himself to cut the MP down to size in 2022. ***** Leadership integrity and ethics are crucial among public officers. However, this appears to have deteriorated to an all-time low, after Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi had a bitter confrontation with Youth Secretary Anthony Kibagendi last Friday. The two were preparing to receive DP William Ruto who was due to officiate the Kisii University graduation ceremony when they clashed at Kisii sports club. A furious Maangi, is said to be unhappy with Kibagendi’s closeness to the DP, a blossoming friendship that he fears could undermine his 2022 gubernatorial ambition. While political enmity is undoubtedly normal among rivals, having a scuffle in public is punishable in law. ***** Did Education CS Amina Mohamed hurriedly convene a stakeholders’ forum at the KICD on Saturday to ratify her decision to put on hold the 2-6-6-3 education system, at least for now? Corridors of power is informed that the meeting was earlier scheduled for next year but was hastily pushed forward to last Saturday as part of the damage control following an outcry after Amina’s suspension of the new system roll out. With the CS having received overwhelming support from a section of stakeholders who have initially objected to the new system was quite telling. Is what is unfolding at the education ministry a bigger political game with Kenyan children being used a pawn? Questions linger as to why the ministry failed to make the announcement early in time and only waited for parents to make investments into the new system before beating a retreat. It could be high octane political gymnastics at play. ***** Perhaps, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko could not be aware that some MCAs could be working in cahoots with contractors to derail his development agenda. The MCAs, who own some companies through proxies, are said to have pocketed millions of shillings meant for roads within their area, suffocating the projects. Some key roads that were under construction have stalled while money had already been paid. Was the county aware of the conflict of interest that existed when they awarded tenders to companies fronted by MCAs? Well, Sonko may need to do a tour of the wards to see for himself. Click here for
the latest political news