Following the exit of head coach Nikola Kavazovic, AFC Leopards have officially appointed his assistant Marko Vasiljevic to take over the club for the next two years. Kavazovic was officially unveiled as the new coach for South African-based Free States Stars. Kavazovic officially parted ways with Leopards on Wednesday after surrendering his sign-on fee worth Sh500,000 and forfeiting his November salary. Yesterday, the Serb who had requested to attend a family issue last month, was unveiled at Free States Stars, who ply their trade in the Premier League Soccer, ending speculation on his return to the den. Before his departure, Kavazovic had recommended his assistant Vasiljevic to take charge at the den although on interim basis but after getting a better package in South Africa, he relinquished his services—leaving the 12-time Kenyan champions to settle for the youthful Vasiljevic, who had overseen the opening two league matches against Kariobangi Sharks and Kakamega Homeboyz. Kavazovic joined Leopards in late October, replacing Argentine Rodolfo Zapata but the former unceremoniously left the club without overseeing a competitive match, leaving Tom Juma who currently serves as the technical director and the newly acquired goalkeeper trainer Lawrence Webo to man the club. However, his assistant arrived a day to the league date and began his tenure with a one-all draw before being downed 3-0 by Homeboyz in their second match. Leopards through their chairman Dan Mule confirmed Vasiljevic as the new coach and pledged to support him despite launching his stay at the club on the wrong footing. “I can confirm that Vasiljevic is our new coach for the next two years. We parted ways with Kavazovic on Wednesday after meeting the obligations of the release clause in the contract he had agreed with us. He surrendered the sign-on fee and forfeited his November salary and we wish him all the best in his new coaching job. Meanwhile we the executive committee will offer Vasiljevic maximum support.” Mule further confirmed plans of signing a centre half to beef up their leaking defence a day after landing new foreign players. Leopards flew in Marcel Kaheza from Simba and Congolese Wai Yeka and according to their chairman, a foreign-based defenders will soon follow suit. “We are yet to wrap our transfer business as we are in negotiations with a central defender whom we believe will sign for us before the week ends. I believe this is our year to end our long wait for the domestic title considering the quality of players at our disposal and the presence of the youthful coach who relates well with the players. It’s not too late and we can still catch up with the rest and win the league.”