Bunge la Mwananchi movement now wants to be joined in the petition seeking Nairobi Governor Mike Mbuvi Sonko's removal from office for gross misconduct. They claim that lawyer Boniface Nyamu, who filed the petition on Thursday, is using the court as a backdoor to impeach the governor without a valid reason. The lawyer has listed over 10 grounds which he says show that Sonko is unfit to hold the office of governor. They include verbally assaulting an MCA, recording private phone calls, refusing to nominate a deputy governor, among others. Read: Declare Sonko unfit to hold public office, city lawyer asks court In an application filed on Friday, the movement says they can give more insight into the case, hence their bid for joinder. They claim that if the prayers sought are granted, voters and residents of Nairobi County and other neighboring counties will be adversely affected. "The participation of the intended party in the proceedings will substantively contribute towards realising a decision that is well-informed, professionally, politically sound, and amenable to the public interest," Bunge la Mwananchi says in court papers. Shitanda Henry of the move says in an affidavit that the lawyer 'should not be allowed to blow hot and cold when he understands the predicament facing city residents'. He also claims that the petitioner has not followed the laid down channels of airing his grievances but is circumventing the law to suit him (Nyamu). "The intended consequences of the petition amounts to political uncertainty in the County of Nairobi which also serves as a business hub and capital city," Shitanda argues. According to Shitanda, there is a structured constitutional way of airing the grievances raised if any. In the case, Nyamu argues that although Nairobi is a business and commercial hub in the Eastern Africa region, it has become unworkable and unlivable because Sonko has become negligent in his duties and roles of running the city. Justice Wilfrida Okwany had certified the matter as urgent and directed Nyamu to serve the governor with the petition. Click here for the latest political news 