The Central Bank of Kenya will put up modern houses along Ngong Road to accommodate police officers attached to the authority. An agreement for the deal was sealed with the National Police Service on Tuesday when the parties signed a Memorandum of Understanding. CBK was represented by Governor Patrick Njoroge, with Inspector General Joseph Boinnet signing on behalf of the Police Service during the ceremony at the CBK headquarters in Nairobi. The collaboration follows President Uhuru Kenyatta-led police reforms aimed at providing better housing for the disciplined forces. Njoroge said the houses will be built on a 120 acres. The land formerly belonged to a driving school which is set to be relocated. At least 200 police officers are expected to get accommodation. The 104 officers attached to the CBK will be given priority. The houses will have one- and two-bedroom apartments with recreational and sporting facilities. There will also be lecture rooms and a police station. Njoroge said construction will be undertaken in three phases. The first phase to begin in the 2019-20 financial year with the building of houses. “Our vision is to do this work within budget and stipulated time frame. We will insist on quality,” Njoroge said. He said CBK wil quickly develop the design and get into the budgeting process, saying it was the most urgent undertaking. Boinnet said the collaboration was timely not only because it will motivate officers but also as signal there are institutions that appreciate the services provided by police. The IG said the National Police Service provided selfless service and sacrifice, which often goes unappreciated. “CBK has set the pace for other institutions to collaborate with the National Police Service in looking into the plight of the uniformed officers,” Boinnet said. The MoU signing was attended by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. The CS said the collaboration was in sync with Uhuru’s philosophy of regarding the police service as a professional duty. “The officers deserve to live under better conditions in order to work and deliver as expected,” Matiang’i said. He said the collaboration does not affect the move to have officers integrate with the public saying there were certain units of the police that would not be allowed to be scattered. He cited the Rapid Deployment Unit saying the nature of their work demands that they be together in a certain place. Matiang’i praised officers for the sacrifices they make to keep everyone safe. He said no officer will go for Christmas holidays. “It is time for Kenyans to appreciate what the police officers are doing. We will not let you down in ensuring that you get better working and living conditions to enable you deliver as expected,” Matiang’i said.