2018 will no doubt go down history books as a year that experienced some of the most gruesome murders in Kenya. Surprisingly, a majority of the victims were female and the murders mostly occurred in quick succession. None of the murders have been resolved although several suspects have been charged. Several murder cases occurred in the year, but a few made headlines, particularly due to their nature of execution or the caliber of suspects mentioned. Some are prominent or high ranking individuals in society. Sharon Otieno The second-year Rongo University student’s mutilated body was found at Kodero forest, Homa Bay County, on September 4, a day after she was abducted together with Nation correspondent Barack Oduor. Detectives linked the murder to Migori governor Okoth Obado after days of investigations. Obado’s aides Michael Oyamo and Caspal Obiero were also charged with the murder. A taxi driver, a police constable, and a former MCA were also questioned as persons of interest. DNA results confirmed that Obado was the father of Sharon’s unborn son. She was seven months pregnant. Detectives cited this as a motive for murder and arrested Obado after days of speculation. The sequence of events leading to Sharon’s brutal murder reads like a Hollywood script. She was allegedly set up by Oyamo and handed over to her killers, reportedly on Obado’s orders. The governor denied the charges and was released on Sh5 million bond on October 24. See: [VIDEO] Okoth Obado released on Sh5m cash bail in Sharon's murder Sharon wanted the journalist to expose and shame Obado after the governor allegedly started being uncooperative after he learnt that he was the father of her unborn child. Oyamo set up a meeting with the duo at Graca Hotel in Rongo. He paid the bill and led them to a Toyota Fielder believed to have been driven by one Jackson Gombe. On the way to a new meeting location in Homabay, Oduor said Oyamo alighted few meters from the hotel and ushered two men into the car. They sandwiched him and Sharon. Oduor said moments later, the men started to strangle him. In the nick of the moment, he managed to jump out of the moving car at Nyangweso trading centre, hid in the bushes and sought help at a homestead. Sharon’s mutilated body was found the following day at Kodero forest with condoms and her underwear strewn around the scene. Postmortem results revealed that she was stabbed three times on the neck, four times on the back and on the left side of her abdomen and bled to death. Her unborn son was stabbed through the spine and the knife exited through the stomach. “It means that the baby also died from the same injuries that the late Sharon sustained," government pathologist Johansen Oduor said on September 7 while releasing the autopsy results at the Rachonywo Level Four Hospital in Homa Bay County. He said the 2nd year medical records student may also have been raped before her murder. Monica Kimani Before the dust on Sharon’s murder settled, the country was hit with news of yet another spine-chilling murder of a young lady – Monica Kimani – on September 19. The 28-year-old businesswoman had just arrived at her Kilimani apartment in Nairobi from Juba when tragedy struck. Monica’s body was found by her brother in the bathtub with her throat slit from ear to ear. Her mouth was shut with a tape, her hands tied behind her back and her feet bound together. The killer left the tap running. Investigations implicated Joseph Irungu – fiancé to TV journalist Jacque Maribe. Irungu was captured on CCTV camera exiting Lamuria Gardens Apartment, off Dennis Pritt Road, on the night Monica was killed. He was driving Maribe’s car and signed in at the gate under a false name - Dominic Kamau. Read: How police are linking Jacque Maribe to Monica Kimani's murder DCI investigators later ascertained that Irungu shot himself on the upper left side of his chest inside Maribe’s house at Royal Park, Lang’ata. He used a neighbour’s pistol during an argument with Maribe. A live bullet was found under Maribe’s bed and a bullet hole concealed with wheat flour dough was discovered on her sitting room's wall. Maribe is out on bail while Irungu, alias Jowie, is in custody. She was released on a Sh1 million cash bail. Justice James Wakiaga, while denying Irungu bail on October 30, described him as a male version of a "slay queen and a woman eater." "He was living in the house of the second accused, driving the second accused's car with no known source of income since 2017 when he provided security for some Jubilee politicians," Judge Wakiaga said while justifying his decision. The case resumes in June 2019. Read: Jowie withdraws 'woman eater' case against Judge Wakiaga More: How family learnt of Monica Kimani's murder Abduction and murder of Maribel Kapolon Days before Monica Kimani’s murder, the decomposing body of a nine-year old girl was discovered in Imenti forest, about three kilometers from Meru town. Maribel Kapolon’s mutilated body was discovered on September 17, almost two weeks after she was abducted by unknown people on September 6. The class four pupil was the daughter of Githongo Law Courts Senior Resident Magistrate Carol Kemei. She was abducted at around 5pm shortly after being dropped by the school bus. Reports made to the police said she was picked up by a man who appeared known to her. Read: Decomposing body of Meru magistrate's daughter found in Gitoro forest She referred to him as “uncle” when she called out her name near Total Petrol Station along the Meru -Makutano road. Maribel’s killers demanded a Sh500,000 ransom but never made a follow up. The girl appeared to have been tortured before her death as her body had cuts on the thighs and one arm appeared to have been burnt by acid. “The body was lying face down and a part of the head had no hair. One arm appeared to have been burnt,” an officer who saw the body told reporters. A suspect was later arrested in Nairobi as investigations continue to unravel those responsible and the motive behind the murder. Kakamega DC Paul Yatich's wife On October 16, the country woke up yet to another shocking news of the horrendous murder of Loice Yatich, wife of former Kakamega DC Paul Yatich. The TSC curriculum support development officer in Uasin Gishu County had been reported missing a couple of days back. Her decomposing body was found in her house in Kiplombe, Eldoret town where she lived alone after years of separation from her husband. "The body had serious cuts on the shoulder. We also suspect she was raped during the attack," Eldoret West OCPD Zachary Bitok said. Yatich wondered why anyone would want to rape and brutally kill a 62 year old woman. “This is quite brutal and I don’t know why someone would do this. We leave it to God and hope the police will do their work thoroughly to arrest those involved,” he said. The deceased’s farmhand, who went missing after the incident, was suspected to be behind the horrific murder. Two suspects, Laban Cheruiyot and Simon Lumile, were arrested at Kabiyet in Nandi County after they were found driving the woman’s missing car and arraigned in Eldoret. Read: Ex-Kakamega DC Paul Yatich's wife found murdered in Eldoret Teacher murdered in her in-law’s home in Ongata Rongai The series if chilling murders in 2018 kicked off earlier in the year. On February 11, a primary school teacher was found murdered at her mother-in-law's house in Ongata Rongai, Nairobi. Priscilla Wangeci was allegedly murdered and her remains concealed in her husband's bedroom. The husband works in Dubai. Reports initially pointed to suicide after her body was found tied to a bed to suggest that she had hanged herself. An autopsy examination, however, established that the woman, who was six months pregnant with twins, had been strangled to death. “The police are now trying to put available pieces of information together and also trace the movement of the deceased to the time her death was reported to the police,” area OCPD Silas Ringera told the Star on February 19. Wangeci's mother, Veronicah Wanjiku, said her daughter, who lived in Buruburu, had been invited by her mother in-law to a family meeting at their home near the Smith Hotel along the Rongai/Kiserian road on February 10. More: Rising cases of murder blamed on moral decay Murder, cannibalism of two young girls in Kiserian And as if to wrap up in style, the hideous murder and eventual cannibalization of a six-year old girl was reported in Kiserian on November 28. A 17 year old suspect arrested in connection with the chilling murder told police that the girl was kidnapped by a group of 15 boys and raped in turns before her throat was slit. The suspect said some of the boys, who were partying at Githima village, were known to the innocent girl. “They spotted her passing by and called her. She was easily lured to join them because she knew some of them,” a police officer working on the case said. The gang members then forced themselves on her one by one, before slitting her throat and drinking her blood. They also ate some body parts. Six days later on December 4, the body of another girl estimated to be around eight years was discovered in a dam within the same locality. The discovery of the dismembered body with a missing head raised fears of there being a serial killer in the area. Ngong OCPD Joseph Mwika said the body would be marked as unknown person until relatives claim it. Residents called for 24-hour police patrols on suspicion that members of a cult targeting children could be on the loose.