With a whooping Sh56 million and a qualification to the group stages of the Caf Champions League at stake, Kenyan champions Gor Mahia will aim at nothing short of a draw or a win when they play Lobi Stars today in the return match at the Nomadi Azikiwe Stadium in Enugu State. Gor won the first leg encounter 3-1 last week and will put their two-goal advantage in line against the Nigerian champions. Lobi on their part will be eyeing to capitalise on home advantage to overturn the deficit at the expense of Gor who have been camping in Ghana for the last two days in preparations for the match. K’Ogalo will once again look up to Rwandese striker Jacques Tuyisenge, who recently made history by reaching 50 goals for K’Ogalo by opening the scoring charts in their victory against the same team last Sunday. He once again leads Gor in Enugu as he seeks to extend his rich scoring form. The Rwandan international has made a habit of scoring crucial goals and the Kenyan champions will hope that he does it again. Key to creating goal scoring chances will be the cultured left-foot Francis Kahata, who played a crucial role in the first leg as did Samuel Onyango who made the victory more emphatic with a brace. The the main task tough will this time round be in defence, where Harun Shakava and Joash Onyango are going to be tested like never before. The pacy Nigerian attackers pumped up with a fervent home support will look for an early goal to rattle the visitors. It’s here that the international experience of Shakava and error prone custodian Boniface Oluoch will need to come to the fore for K’ogalo to move to the next round in keeping with their thrilling continental run last year. Should Gor crumble, their continental sojourn will not be over as they will drop to the Confederations Cup play-off as best losers but should they prevail, they will know their opponents in the playoff when Caf conducts the draw next weekend in Cairo. The Caf Confederations Cup is also finely poised for Kariobangi Sharks who take a goal-less draw first leg effort to Ghana against Asante Kotoko at the Kumasi Sports Stadium. The SportPesa Shield Cup holders need at least a scoring draw against the two-time champions league winners to qualify to the play-offs. Sharks assistant skipper and right back Geoffrey Shiveka noted in the aftermath of the stalemate that a clean sheet gives them a chance of getting something in Ghana.