Nearly all of Kenya’s 21 ministries are under active investigations, DPP Noordin Haji has said. The revelations by the DPP have further exposed the blight in government that could bring down many big names next year. Haji, who took office in March, told the Star in an exclusive interview that he confronts a massive financial mess and mismanagement pervading nearly all government sectors. He declined to be specific. It has emerged, however, that big targets include the Education ministry’s textbook purchase, Treasury’s e-Citizen platform and the Interior ministry’s acquisition of houses for senior Interior government officers. There has been speculation that President Uhuru Kenyatta could use the graft reports against CSs to change his Cabinet. “It [level of corruption] is pretty bad. We are not talking about people making 10 per cent. We are talking about cases where 100 per cent is lost and there is absolutely nothing to show for it,” he told the Star. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam “Potentially, we are investigating each and every ministry. They all have issues. It’s the whole government...I am not saying they all have a problem, but there are complaints from almost all ministries. We are looking at each and every complaint or whistle-blowing. We take nothing for granted.” The major casualties of Haji’s anti-graft sabre have been the parastatals, where tens of top officers have been charged and sent packing. These include the NHIF, Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Power, the NCPB and Kenya Bureau of Standards, among others. The war against corruption is winnable but Kenyans must not politicise the process, Haji said. The DPP said that before moving to court, he must ensure the process of asset recovery is ongoing. Haji revealed that billions of assets belonging to suspects have already been frozen by the Assets Recovery Agency and the EACC. “It’s not enough to jail people, then they come out to enjoy the proceeds of crime. We insist we need to know where the assets and money are.” Read: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal Click here for the latest political news