President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday reiterated his warning to corrupt state officials, saying they will pay dearly for every coin they steal from the public. "To those engaging in fraud and abuse of office, please listen to me keenly, you can run but you cannot hide," he said. "We will catch up with you, and make you pay dearly for every coin stolen. The broom that is sweeping across the nation will soon find its way to your doorsteps." Uhuru was addressing the nation during the 55th Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi. He said no nobody entrusted to hold public office has the right to demand a bribe or to squander public resources. Uhuru told Kenyans to stop watching from the sidelines and participate actively in the war against graft. "It is time for you to say enough is enough, be it to a policeman or a Governor, a clerk or a Cabinet Secretary, a judge or a politician," he said. "I have shown you my unshakable resolve on this matter, now I need you to show me yours." Read: Kenya, Jersey sign pact to return Sh516m graft proceeds Read: Haji, Waiguru, Joho feted as Eliud Kipchoge misses out Also read: Uhuru steps out in ceremonial military uniform for Jamhuri Day The President praised the anti-corruption agencies and the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for their continued zeal in fighting corruption. He said individuals who thought they were untouchable were taken to court. However, Uhuru said he is disappointed in their immediate release on bail. "These individuals deserve fair trial but nothing more. I'm again calling on the Judiciary to ensure its procedures are not used to protect impunity," he said. "Kenyan spirits are dampened when we witness suspects released on ridiculously low bail terms, interference in legislative processes, and the use of the court process to delay justice." As part of the government's anti-corruption strategy, Uhuru said it has signed bilateral agreements with a number of countries to fight off the vice. "There is almost nowhere left for them to hide the ill-gotten wealth robbed from Kenyans. Once proven it is stolen money, the agreements provide for the assets to be returned to the Kenyan Government," he said. Jersey is the latest to sign a pact with Kenya to return looted wealth. The UK and Switzerland have also signed agreements with Kenya. Uhuru also thanked officers who have served the country by fighting for our freedom but challenged the youth to keep the country united and always remember our freedom fighters "Our young Kenyans must know that our freedom was not given to us on a silver platter, it was fought for and we must continue to defend it at all times," he said. Click here for the latest political news   