Soroti-based Iteso Cultural Union leader Emorimor Augutsine Osuban has decried the depletion of the community culture especially among the youth both in Kenya and Uganda. In a speech read on his behalf by Iteso Cultural Union (ICU) Prime Minister Paul Sande Emolot during the 11th Teso Cultural Day at Kakapel Community Cultural Centre on Boxing Day, Papa Emorimor said the trend was alarming. “Youths have forgotten their culture after joining boarding schools at tender age of 3-5 years and returning home after university. Parents should shun this dangerous trend that makes their children forget even their clans and relatives,” he said. Emorimor said youth dressing code and respect for elders is also wanting, thus his decision to have the desk of youth in his office to enable them learn the Iteso culture. PS Emolot revealed that Emorimor will tour Teso North and Teso South Sub Counties in February, 2019; adding that Teso in Kenya had gotten its own region in the ICU hierarchy. Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi said Sh6.5m allocated towards the construction of the Kakapel multipurpose hall is not enough, adding that the Executive will talk with the Assembly budget committee to have the amount enhanced by Sh30m. The DG said there was need by the youth to learn about their culture to save it from extinction should the current old generation be wiped out. Acting Culture and Sports Executive John Mwami said the County Government has bought 14 acres of land including the Hill and its adjoining areas to expand Kakapel Cultural Centre, adding that he will liaise with the Kenya Tourist Board to help develop the heritage site and to put up stairs to link the centre and the top of the hill. Teso North MP Oku Kaunya urged Emorimor and Teso region leaders to help in starting Kakapel Cultural University that will help advance the community’s cultural values. His Teso South counterpart Geoffrey Omuse said he will contribute Sh200, 000 through the CDF kitty to support the 2019 cultural day. Public Works CEC Okwara Ekirapa encourages parents to be accompanying their children for cultural festivals saying teaching children on good cultural practices has become difficult. Malaba South Member of the County Assembly Grace Olita told women to respect their husbands, the youth to embrace Iteso culture and girls to observe dressing code. The centre patron Albert Ekirapa thanked the County Government for its support to make Kakapel a centre of excellence. Others present include Lands CEC Prof Grephas Opata, educationist Dr Nicodemus Anyang, Deputy Speaker Lawrence Okaale, Tororo LC 5 chairperson Stella Imukutet and ICU Deputy Prime Minister Gabriel Itella and Emeritus Justice Anyara Emukule and a host of MCAs.