Last
weekend, the world celebrated World AIDS day on December 1. In most parts of
the country, many were celebrating the successes made globally and nationally to
bring infections and effects of the disease down to manageable levels. There
has been general success in fighting the HIV-Aids pandemic. The first case of
HIV in Kenya was detected in 1984 and by the mid 1990s, the prevalence rate of
the country was reported to be 10.9 per cent. This meant that more than one of
every 10 people in the country was HIV positive. Government efforts, including
by the National Aids Control Council (NACC) have reversed this trend and almost
halved the prevalence rate. Currently the prevalence rate of the country is
reported to be 5.9 per cent. While
this is a cause for celebration, it is disturbing to note that at present there
is high number of new HIV infections amongst teenagers in the country and in
particular key counties in different parts, including Nyanza, Western, Nairobi
and Coast. It has become apparent that new infections are reported mainly in
teenagers and youth between 16 to 25 years. A National AIDS Control
Council report gave the number of new
infections amongst adolescents and young persons in Kenya to be 47 every day! In Migori
for example, the report says that eight Homa Bay county teens contract HIV
every day! The same report said that in Kisumu, 4,996 youths and adolescents
contracted HIV in one year, which translates to 13 teens every day. In Kilifi
county, it is reported that almost 20 per cent of all new infections are of
teenagers. These are alarming statistics that ought to be addressed urgently by
all national and county officials in order to save the youth, specifically and
generally the future of our nation. According
to officials, HIV infections are brought about by increase in immoral behaviours
reported amongst teenagers coupled with unprotected sex. This is further
exacerbated by sexual violence, including incest where teenagers are defiled
and raped, coercion by peers into early sex and lack of information amongst
teenagers on HIV-Aids, which renders them vulnerable. According to available
information, about 20 per cent of young people get into sexual activities
before their 15th birthday. At the
Coast and Nyanza, for example, disco matangas and disco vumbis in major towns
have been highlighted as major breeding grounds where teenagers remain
unsupervised and easily engage in illicit behavior, including drug use and
unprotected sex. Boda boda riders have also been accused of hoodwinking young
girls into early sex. Despite health authorities making available condoms to
the youth, due to drug and alcohol abuse, they end up not using condoms,
spreading HIV-Aids amongst themselves. Information
has also confirmed that the majority of the youth who are infected are not
aware of their status and by continuing to engage in unsafe sex, they spread
the infection unknowingly. Further, recent reports reveal that activities of
homosexuals have increased the rates of infection, with almost a third of the
homosexuals population reported to be HIV positive. Haki
Africa is therefore calling for urgent measures to save the teenagers from this
scourge. It is already disheartening to lose the young generation to drugs,
crime and extra-judicial killings. To learn that they are now also getting
infected at alarming rates is a big blow to the future of our country. As an organisation,
Haki Africa is calling on the national and county governments to immediately
initiate programmes targeting the youth to protect them from new infections. The
current crop of teenagers was not reached by the massive HIV-Aids awareness
that was carried out in the 1990 and 2000s. They, therefore, must be reached in
order to save them from getting infected. Health is
a fundamental right guaranteed by Article 43 of the Constitution. The right to
healthcare includes preventing infections and it is the responsibility of the national
and the county governments to defend the teenagers from practices that put them
at risk of their health. As Kenyans, we also have a duty to save the younger
generation from the scourge. Parents, teachers, religious leaders and all must
work together to save our teenagers. 