Deputy President William Ruto has told off his rivals for the 2022 presidential elections to stop panicking as he is yet to start campaigns for the same. Speaking during a church service at Christ the King church in Bungoma town, Ruto said his most criticised criss-crossing of the entire country was part of his mandate as deputy president of the republic. “People should stop panicking about my traversing the country, saying it is 2022 presidential campaigns, I am yet to start my campaigns because when I start they will be in for a rude shock,” he said. He said people should stop talking about 2022 elections as it was only God who knows who will be there during that time. ''Am asking my fellow Kenyans to stop panicking about Kenyan politics as it is only God who plans for tomorrow and not any human being,'' Ruto said. The DP who was accompanied by MPs Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), James Mukwe (Kabuchai), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Enock Kibungunchi (Likuyani) and John Waluke (Sirisia) asked all elected leaders to deliver their pledges to the electorate and stop thinking a bout 2022 elections. ''We should unite and change the livelihood of our people and not to politick all the time,'' he noted. Read: Stop panicking, I haven't began 2022 campaigns - Ruto tells rivals Ruto said every leadership has the key responsibility of serving the people saying the times for campaigns elapsed . “We exhausted our time as politicians during the campaigns, it is now time to serve the people,” he said. He said the Jubilee administration is keen on implementing the Big Four agenda by ensuring that they construct 3000 houses in Bungoma alone Bungoma governor Wyclife Wangamati said he was ready to work with the deputy president in his 2022 presidential bid . He however said the rules of engagement should be structured to ensure tat the entire Bungoma county supports Ruto. Sirisia MP John Waluke criticised the way the anti-graft agency is dealing with corruption cases saying they are only targeting one community. “It can’t be that out of the 47 tribes in government only one tribe is being involved in graft,” Waluke said. He said the agencies are being used by political players which will become a major set back for fighting corruption Ruto gave a contribution of Sh2 million and also donated Sh1 million which he said was President Uhuru Kenyatta's contribution. Also Read: Ruto’s allies plot Jubilee takeover in plan for 2022 Click here for the latest political news