KNUT has issued a strike notice over alleged violation of labour rights by the Teachers Service Commission. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Secretary General Wilson Sossion said the boycott will start on January 2, 2019. "We hereby issue a clear notice to TSC that we will resort to industrial action with effect from January. Teachers shall not assume duties until all the outstanding matters are resolved," he said. Sossion said they are contesting working conditions in classrooms noting that they are withdrawing labour to protest withdrawal of teachers rights to promotions. "This is our right. You cannot withdraw a benefit which workers enjoy. Career progression should be conducted according to the law," he said. Sossion also opposed the transfer of over 3,094 head teachers after TSC issued a notice on Tuesday. The teachers’ employer said the primary school head teachers and secondary school principals will be affected in the mass movements as schools reopen for the first term in a fortnight. More on this: TSC to transfer head teachers The Union had warned to call a major strike for all its members should TSC proceed to effect the transfers. Also read: TSC targets thousands of teachers in third phase of transfers Sossion said transferring the teachers destabilises family. "Do not disrupt the families of teachers through the delocalisation and transfers. Some families have separated and we cannot contemplate teachers losing their families," he said. "Teachers families are part of their communities. We have records of those families. We will not condone this. It is the biggest injustice the employer can put in place." Sossion claimed that the delocalisation process was not approved by TSC appointment board. "We have authoritatively established that the transfers have not been approved. TSC is wallowing in deep confusion and mishandling of teachers of the Republic of Kenya," Sossion said. He the commission is no longer accountable to teachers. "TSC is no longer an independent body that reflects the aspirations of the people," he said. Click here for the latest political news  