The public is outraged by extrajudicial killings, but DCI boss George Kinoti says the situation has changed since he took office and he will dedicate himself to eradicating such murders. First, he told the Star in an interview, the infamous Flying Squad has been disbanded. Second, police officers who violate the law are punished. “According to my principles, I can never condone any sense of inhumanity. Anyone who kills and brings down an innocent life must know that they will answer for it here and in heaven,” he said. Kinoti said police officers have been trained to understand the circumstances under which they can use firearms and deadly force. The DCI said he is cooperating with human rights agencies investigating killings by police officers, adding that his office would be the last to spare any officer acting outside the law. “Such an officer is definitely punished. They are adequately trained on what is expected of them and what happens when they contravene the rules set out in the National Police Service Order and Police Service Act.” Read: Haji, Kinoti to enlist forensic prosecutors for serious crimes Kinoti said the directorate will not shield any officer found culpable of human rights abuses and killings. “Any officer who subverts the law will be punished,” he said. Kinoti encouraged Kenyans to report cases to IPOA and the Internal Affairs Unit of the Police Service. The DCI chief says he wants Kenyans to remember him for fairness in the application of the law and policing with a sense of humanity. For 2019, he said that the DCI aims to improve its crime management strategy with a view to handling more cases that result in convictions. “There is hope for Kenyans,” he said. On November 23, widows and mothers of 22 young men shot dead by police in Nairobi sought court orders for a judicial commission of inquiry into extrajudicial killings. The victims were among 24 people shot dead by police officers in Nairobi’s Dandora, Kayole, Mathare and Majengo estates in three weeks. More: DCI boss Kinoti proposes new polices to help victims of sexual violence Click here for the latest political news