President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to Kiambu county to grace a graduation ceremony for thousands of former alcohol addicts has not been received well by area residents. Moles privy to corridors argue that Governor Ferdinand Waititu could have prioritized other key projects like equipping medical facilities with drugs and necessary infrastructure instead of paying each drunkard Sh400 to salvage them from the drinking dens. Locals claim that other counties have set proper development priorities. Recently, some 5,000 beneficiaries of the ‘kaa soba’ initiative protested that they had not received their pay. Well, was the Head of State justified to grace the event? ***** Is Nasa leader Raila Odinga under siege in Coast region? Well, a section of embattled ODM MPs from the region who are accused of not adhering to the party regulations and declaring their support for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid are still adamant. The lawmakers were overheard at the corridors of Parliament daring Raila to axe them out of the party. Some even maintained they were not afraid to re-seek votes from their electorates if they were ousted from Kenya’s second largest political party from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee party. Will the MPs sustain their war against their party? ***** After corridors told you of how one of the board members at the Kenya Revenue Authority has been put on the radar for working as an agent for some importers of bitumen products which are also manufactured locally, those in the know say that the probe still on the same member has been expanded to his link with some Iranian businessmen who the authority has quietly been pursuing for tax evasion. Those in the know say that the authority is trying to establish if some of its own members have been helping the foreigners evade paying millions of shillings to government through under declaration of imported bitumen products. ***** Is this how our ‘honourable’ MPs have turned out to be? A section of drivers attached to members of the 12th Parliament were overheard by corridors lamenting how they are being forced to work even at the wee hours of the night by picking them up for some errands. They shared how they are sometimes forced to wait outside their bosses’ homes at the wee hours of the morning as they consume sumptuous meals. One by one, some of the members of staff shared of their experiences while ferrying the lawmakers. “Personally, I was called to pick my MP at around 2am and I did not have even fare to get to the house. This is unfair because I have to dig into my pocket and spare my sleep,” one driver said. Click here for the latest political news