The customer is the essence of business development. Furthermore, the customer’s need is the main vein. The customer’s pain point is where you find your profit map. But, for this to happen, you must find a way to get into the customer’s inner conversation. You must enter the customer’s self-talk – the conversation in the customer’s head. This self-talk consists of six questions. It is initiated with the goal of eliminating the customer’s pain. If you are the “YES” to all six questions, you’re likely to sign on the customer. Your ability to explore, understand and cash in on these questions makes the difference. When a customer has pain, they ask: What would solve my pain? Generally, when people are in pain, they seek relief. They look for that thing that stops the pain. Consequently, whatever or whoever stops the pain, wins. Hence, the search for some relief. What does solution look like? This is now an issue. Sometimes customers have an idea of what they want but are unable to articulate its details, especially with many options out there. The search for solutions can be overwhelming. So, if you can help make the search easier and on target, you win. Who can help me? If your business cannot help anyone, you have no business being in business. Some entrepreneurs make the mistake of focusing on money making and forget the fact that customers enter the marketplace looking for help. This is the conversation in the customer’s head: “can you help me?” Period. How can you help me? It is not enough to say you can help, but HOW? Can you prove your ability to help? What range of solutions do you have? Can you help just one way or several ways? If your capacity to help is in doubt, customers may not sign up. What will it cost? Customers want to know the price for your solution. Is it what they can afford? Is the solution worth the asking price? It is wise to give good quality at a fair price. Whatever price you offer must protect the customer’s dignity and yours. Are your terms favorable? Before a customer signs on, they want to know: will I regret doing business with you? What are your terms and conditions? Do they make sense? This is where entrepreneur-customer fit is established. The product may be great, the price fantastic, but the terms may be unfavorable. Customers should be happy to engage with you. Merry Christmas. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com