Kenya has been cleared to export green bananas and broccoli to the South Korea. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs yesterday announced that the Animal and Plant Quarantine agency of the Asian State had given the green light for fresh produce exorts. “The purpose of this letter is to bring this information to your attention and request for your assistance in contacting farmers and exporters of the above products so that they can take advantage of this opportunity,” Trade PS Chris Kiptoo said in a letter to the PS State department for crop development Hamadi Iddi Boga. Kiptoo advised his Agriculture counterpart to reach out to farmers and exporters so they can fully exploit the deal. This comes in the wake of South Korea’s Prime Minister, Lee Nak-Yeon’s visit to Kenya in July this year where he pledged to support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big 4 Agenda with a key focus on Korea opening its market to Kenya’s agricultural produce. Key broccoli producing regions in Kenya include Kiambu, Nairobi, Laikipia, Murang’a, Makueni and parts of Rift valley. Bananas can be found in Kisii, Kakamega, Bungoma, Meru, Murang’a, Embu, Nyeri, Kerio Valley, Kericho, Baringo, Kirinyaga and the coastal region. This will add onto the growing list of trade deals that have taken place over the year aimed at boosting activity in the horticulture industry especially the export of fruits and vegetables. During his meeting with the Chinese President Xi Jinping in Shanghai last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta reached a deal with his counterpart to open the Chinese market to Kenyan exports beginning with avocado and macadamia nuts. This comes barely months after South Africa re-opened its market, allowing Kenya to export its avocados to the Southern state. Horticulture is Kenya’s fourth largest revenue earner after diaspora inflows, tourism and tea. Data by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows for the eight months to August, the sector exported fresh produce worth Sh103.89 billion.This is a 28.83 per cent growth compared to Sh80.64 billion collected over the same period last year. Cut flowers contributed to 74.03 per cent of the value while vegetables and fruits accounted for Sh16.23 per cent and 9.75 per cent.