Livestock farmers now have a reason to smile after the ban that had been placed on meat by the government of Kuwait was lifted. The ban was imposed by Kuwait on November 8, 2018, after questions over quality and standards of meat were raised. The country cited the products from Kenya as having high drug residue levels. Yesterday, livestock PS Harry Kimutai welcomed the move saying it will encourage stakeholders in livestock sub-sector to continue improving the quality of animals, transport facilities and general observation of good agricultural and animal welfare. "Due to the stringent sanitary measures that have been put in place in the animal supply chain from procurement of animals to slaughter, the ban which was placed on Kenya's export to Kuwait on 8th November 2018 has been lifted," Kimutai said in the statement on Thursday. The PS said residue monitoring plans for screening of animals for inappropriate use of veterinary drugs have been put in place to further country's food safety measures. Kimutai while thanking the government of Kuwait further said the country has a policy in place and national action plan for control of antimicrobial resistance. Kenya, according to Kimutai, also intends to put in place a national animal identification and trace ability system to trace animals from farm to table in order to meet international standards. "Apart from working closely with the private sector to improve the quality and standards of meat, the government is undertaking modernization of meat processing facilities and the introduction of feedlot system," Kimutai said. The PS said meat exports to Kuwait has been rising. On average, Kenya Meat Commission exports about 100 metric tonnes of meat products per month mostly mutton, lamb, goat meat and corned beef to its principal export markets such as United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Egypt. The total value of marketed livestock and related products in Kenya grew by 22 per cent to Sh55.3 billion in the year 2010 compared to Sh45.1 billion a year earlier. The population and housing census revealed a massive livestock resource of 3.4 million exotic cattle, 14.1 million indigenous cattle, 17.1 million sheep, 27.7 million goats, 2.9 million camels, 25.8 million indigenous, chicken and 6.1 million exotic chicken. Click here for the latest political news