In 2010, Kenyans renewed their
social contract through the 2010 Constitution, which appreciated the plight of
the Kenyan youth. A situation of deprived opportunities and thus left
marginalised. It is for this reason that the document in its various sections
made it mandatory for youths to be involved in the country’s governance. Take for instance Article 55,
which obligates the government to take certain measures to improve the welfare
of the youth. There is also Article 97 (1) (C ) and Article 98 (1) (C ), which
compel political parties to nominate youths to the National Assembly and the
Senate respectively. Additionally, Article 177 (1) (C ) provides for nomination
of youths in the county assemblies. To eliminate doubts on who is a youth and
who isn’t, the Constitution gave a clear definition. The above provisions are not
in vain: The mischief they try to remedy is the condescending attitude of
Kenya’s political class on the youth. The political class, which consists of
elderly and middle-aged men, perceives the youth as only a means to a political
end. This is the reason they think employing the youth in the civil service is
a favour they should beg for. The recent blanket
condemnation of the youth as thieves who do not deserve public appointment by
President Uhuru Kenyatta is a mockery. Despite President Kenyatta being elected
on a youthful platform, his record in appointing the youth hasn’t been
impressive. For instance, how many youth were in his first term Cabinet? The only notable senior
official was PS Irungu Nyakera, who was below 35 years. There wasn’t any other
youth. Two years later after the formation of his 2013 government, Uhuru went
to Parliament for the annual state of the Nation address and tabled what came
to be known as the List of Shame. Five of his Cabinet secretaries whom he
suspended featured prominently on the list. None of them was a youth. The Jubilee government has had
a number of corruption scandals from the Mega twin scams in the National Youth
Service to the ballooned payments of medical equipment in the Afya House
Scandal. None of these scandals had their chief architect as a person below the
age of 35, apart from the two women, Josephine Kabura and Anne Ngirita, who
were allegedly used as conduits. The truth of the matter is
that the number of youth who have been involved in corruption scandals is
insignificant, if any, to warrant such a public condemnation. As a matter of
fact, the number of youth in decision-making positions within the government is
low. Despite Kenya having a youthful population, there is a paltry of 25 per
cent youth in the civil service. The people who are looting from the government
are ironically the same people who should be mentoring them. Off late, there
has been a purge on corrupt government officials and I am yet to see a person
below the age of 35 being charged. How then does the President blame the
victims of corruption? Undoubtedly, most of Uhuru’s
appointments in government since 2013 are old people, some retirees. Today, if
you map out Kenya’s diplomatic missions, most of them are not ran by career
diplomats, despite having young and energetic people trained in the field. They
are run by political rejects or incompetent civil servants who had
to be re-deployed. Public appointments are now based on cronyism, where the
typical and majority of youth have no chance. Indeed, Uhuru’s frustrations are
self-inflicted and he shouldn’t vent them on the wrong people. Uhuru is a man born in privilege and even the people he gives jobs are sons and daughters of the
privileged. He may, therefore, be talking of a different group of youth. The
typical Kenyan youth are even exposed to money they can steal from their
employers, because they are unemployed. According to the Kenya
National Bureau of Statistics, nine out of 10 unemployed Kenyans are young
people below 35 years. We have a young population that feels cheated by their
government. No wonder a survey by the British Council early this year showed
one out four youths in Kenya want to leave for Europe or the US in search of a
better life. The youth feel it is hard for them to achieve their ambitions in
Kenya because the environment isn’t enabling. The generation before them, which
is unfortunately blaming them now, has only managed to bequeath mockery and
disillusion. Truly, even the old men who
are being idolised may not be icons to be emulated. In President Mwai Kibaki’s Narc
government, Moody Awori was allegedly involved in the Anglo leasing scandal. Awori
never resigned or stepped aside to allow investigations of his office. Is this
what President Kenyatta wants the “already thieving youth” to emulate?   Gitungo Wamere is a Master’s student at the Willy Brandt School of Public Policy in Germany           