   Agents of Migori governor Okoth Obado want a suit by the
EACC over allegations of irregular procurement practices
struck out. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission have sue the agents with possible loss of over Sh2.5 billion. Jared Kwaga,
Christine Ochola, Carolyne Ochola, Jorama Otieno, Patroba Otieno,
Robert Okeyo and Pesulus Suppliers Limited say none of them should be
required to account or made liable for monies they did not
transact. EACC has
been on the radar of Obado and proxies for benefiting from multi-billion
contracts. The agency wants the suspects compelled to return over Sh2 billion allegedly looted from
Migori county government. The seven yesterday said they can't be held liable for
the actions of companies in which they are not involved. “The relationship
or interest between us and the 15 companies is distinct, separable
and the merged suit is misconceived and an abuse of court process. We
are each separate legal entities and independent of each other and
liable independently as regards our business or other actions we
undertake,|” they say.  They claim that the
Ethics and Anti-corruption commission has already acknowledged that
they were not awarded any tenders at all by the Migori County
government yet it has commenced the proceedings seeking determination
of the question as to whether shs 1.9 billion allegedly transacted
between Migori County and the 15 companies constitute unexplained
assets .  “Should the
commission have any claim against us. The same should be precisely
pleaded and targeted to us to enable us understand the accusation and
to permit us an opportunity to reasonably answer the claim,”  Kwaga confirmed that
the commission never issued any statutory notice seeking explanation
from him in regards to certain properties in Kisumu and Migori . He
says the notices issued to them on September 5 this year did not
disclose to them any reason for issuing the notice.  “It is not true
that we failed to respond to the notice. In any event and even if the
notice was to be valid, which it wasn't, the notice issued sought
documents in relation to 40 properties yet the suit herein seeks
forfeiture of fifty nine properties,” he says  Achola in her
affidavit says the 15 companies were awarded various tenders by
Migori County Government and payments were made to them on account of
performance of those contracts.  She argues that
payment from tenders with the Migori County government cannot qualify
as unexplained assets therefore the commissions investigations as to
whether the subject tender were corruptly or irregularly awarded
cannot be the basis for mounting a suit under section 55 of ACECA
(unexplained assets)  “The procurement
entity (Migori) has the legal duty to keep and maintain all the
records and this responsibility cannot be transferred to us,” she
says.  EACC in its
application now wants seven of the governor's alleged proxies and 14
of their firms that benefited from multi-billion contracts compelled
to refund Sh2 billion allegedly looted from the Migori county
government.  The commission has
named Kwaga, a close Obado associate, as the architect of the theft
who roped in six members of his family including his mother. Joram on
the other hand is the director of Deltrack ICT Services and Seltrack
Consultants while Patroba is director of Joyush Business. EACC has also analyzed the accounts to show the close association
of the contractors.  