President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to Nyanza, in particular the graduation ceremony at Jaramogi Oginga University on Friday, was shrouded in many ironies. A part from Uhuru and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, his 2017 political enemies, being conferred with honorary degrees and their ‘achievements’ being told to all and sundry, the surprise was the chancellor. Business mogul and Bidco boss Vimal Shah who conferred the honours to the two was a victim of their political tussle last year. Ironically, Raila had last year ordered his supporters to boycott Bidco products in a bid to pump more sense into the mind of the people he believed were Uhuru's buddies. ********* A senator and a Governor from Nyanza who are currently not seeing eye to eye despite campaigning together during last year's elections almost caused a scene in the presence of ODM leader Raila Odinga at a high end lakeside city hotel in the eve of President Uhuru Kenyatta's inaugural visit of the region. A mole whispered to Corridors how the combative senator insisted on attending a closed door meeting where the opposition Chief and the Governor were being briefed on the security arrangements ahead of the President's landing. The Governor who had walked out to explain to the Senator who was shouting horse at the door was grabbed by the senator who demanded to be told why he was being sidelined in the preparations for the big guest. It took the intervention of the standby security to separate the two friends turned foes. ********* A governor from Western Kenya has disappeared from the limelight after losing his eyesight leaving the county in the mercy of looters. A cabal of advisors and politicians have been taking advantage of the governor’s condition in the last few months. Corridors of Power is aware the officers have been forging documents and the governor’s signature to make huge transactions involving public funds. It was until last week when his wife decided to alert the governor that public funds were being looted left, right and centre using fraudulent documents. In a bid to control the greedy county officials, the county first lady has barred some officers from accessing the governor at his Nairobi home with only a few trusted allies vested with the responsibility of running the county affairs. *********** The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is said to be in hot pursuit of a First Lady from a county at the Coast who is accused of running a couple of programmes under her office. The woman is said to be operating a kitty running into millions of shillings without proper accounting. She recently ran into trouble with auditors, raising questions that much of the money could be ending into her pocket. The flamboyant woman is said to be putting up multi-million rental houses in Nairobi’s Rongai estate. But questions abound as to why the anti-graft agency is not keen in pursuing other county first ladies on a spending spree while the auditor general flagged their expenditures as irregular. Click here for the latest political news