A storm is brewing between Kenya Sevens senior players and the Kenya Rugby Union over contracts for the 2018-2019 season. Some senior players yesterday said they were not happy with what the union is offering to them this season and they may opt not to play this season. Senior players are set to earn Sh45,000 per month while newly called up players will pocket Sh25,000. This is a remarkable drop from last season, where the senior players were earning between Sh120,000 and Sh170,000 with newly capped players earning Sh60,000. A senior players, who did want to be named, termed the situation as unfortunate. “We have had meetings with Kenya Rugby Union officials and we rejected the initial offer. Some of us have kids who are going to school, rent to pay and other key utilities and that the contact does not factor any of these,” he noted He went on to say that the union wants them to sign the contracts as soon as possible despite the fact that the team is without a strength and conditioning coach, a key component of the Sevens version of the game. “How are we supposed to compete with the world best teams yet we have not done pre-season? We also don’t have a strength and conditioning coach making it difficult for us,” he added. Sources close to the team indicated that head coach Paul Murunga has been forced to take up the role of strength and conditioning coach following the resignation of Geoffrey Kimani last month. The team also is without a full time team manager and questions have been asked why assistant coach Kevin Wambua did not travel with the side to Cape Town last weekend. On their part, KRU said they are broke with acting chief executive officer, Sylvia Kamau, revealing that further meetings are lined up with the players in the next few days. “The union and the senior players are still talking and we can come to an agreement,” she added. Shujaa had dismal start to the season, picking just four points from two wins out of 12 matches in Dubai and Cape Town to sit 14th on the log. Kenya face South Africa, Scotland and France in Hamilton Sevens next month.