President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday sent a chilling message to graft kingpins, warning that they will pay dearly for looting the public purse. Addressing the nation during Jamhuri Day celebrations, the President solemnly pledged that the corrupt will not evade justice. “To those engaging in fraud and abuse of office, please listen to me keenly: You can run but you cannot hide. We will catch up with you, and make you pay dearly for every coin stolen from Kenyans,” Uhuru promised in Nyayo Stadium. The warning is likely to dampen Christmas festivities for tens of graft suspects across government who are on the radar of anti-graft detectives. Many have already been questioned. Deputy President William Ruto's political allies have claimed the war is targeted at his allies to place roadblocks on his path to the presidency in 2022. Top officials at NHIF, the Kenya Pipeline Company and the National Cereals and Produce Board are among those who were dramatically arrested last week and charged. Uhuru said heads will roll and those who thought they were untouchable are in for a rude shock. “Through the efforts of our investigative agencies and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, individuals who may have thought they were untouchable, are now facing the full force of the law. These individuals deserve fair trials but nothing more,” Uhuru said. The head of state also announced that they had nearly sealed loopholes for stashing the looted cash abroad. He said that as part of his government's anti-corruption strategy, bilateral mutual legal assistance agreements have been signed with a number of countries in the west. The strategy he said, is making the world a very small place with little manoeuvering room for corruption kingpins. “There is almost nowhere left for them to hide the ill-gotten wealth robbed from Kenyans. Once proven it is stolen money, the agreements provide for the assets to be returned to the Kenya Government,” the President stated. On Tuesday this week, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki signed a framework agreement with the government of Jersey for the return of Sh516 million in corruption proceeds. Read: You will pay dearly for stealing public funds, Uhuru tells corrupt state officials Last month, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji — the two men who have revitalise the war — were in the United Kingdom to pursue looted cash. Yesterday, Uhuru also challenged the Judiciary to ensure its procedures are not used to protect impunity. Taking his cue from Haji, Uhuru complained that Kenyans' spirits are dampened when graft suspects are released on what he termed “ridiculously low bail terms” and the court process is used to delay justice. “All arms of government must work together to ensure our nation gets rid of this menace,” Uhuru said. The first to raise the red flag on low bail and bond wa Haji who termed the bail terms given to Migori governor Okoth Obado “wanting”. Obado is facing charges of murdering his lover and her unborn child — his son — and is being probed for corruption and possession of questionable firearms. He was released on Sh5 million bail in the murder case and Sh500,000 on the weapons charges. For the first time yesterday, Uhuru told Kenyans to stop being passive in the fight against corruption. His call rekindles memories of the early days of the Narc administration when ordinary citizens arrested corrupt police officers. “It is time for you to stop watching from the sidelines. It is time for you to become active participants in this war, it is time for you to say enough is enough, be it a policeman or a governor, a clerk or a Cabinet secretary, a judge or a politician. Nobody entrusted to hold public office has the right to demand a bribe from you or to squander what you and I have earned from our hard work, ”the President said. He continued, “I have shown you my unshakable resolve on this matter, now I need you to show me yours. Report incidents of corruption to your local Directorate of Criminal Investigations office. If they don’t listen, report it to your nearest Ethics and Anti-Corruption Office; if they don’t listen, give the information to the media and to civil society actors to unmask these people. Do not tire of doing the right thing.” The President announced that there will be a national anti-corruption conference in early January organised by stakeholders from the private sector, religious leaders and civil society . “I remain hopeful this conference will come up with a roadmap we can adopt to further this war and get rid of this cancer,” he stated. Uhuru also promised to continue cooperating with foreign investigative agencies to counter the dangers of transnational crimes particularly drugs and child trafficking. Read: Kenya, Jersey sign pact to return Sh516m graft proceeds Coming only days after revelations that more Kenyans are wanted in the US in relations to the Akasha drug case, Uhuru promised he will never allow Kenya to be a base of operation for drug lords. “Our resolve on this matter should not be tested,” he said. He also pledged that Kenya would be in the vanguard in urging multilateral financial and political systems to take more action to stop corporations from illegally avoiding taxes, ignoring environmental responsibility and acting with cruelty and contempt against citizens of countries in which they have invested. The President also congratulated opposition leaders led by Raila Odinga for accepting to spearhead truce in the country. “Our job as leaders is very simple; it is to work for the people of Kenya every single day, to rebuild the bonds of brotherhood between our peoples and to weave a new and stronger fabric of patriotism and nationhood that we, as a country, so desperately require,” he stated. Uhuru will be in Raila's Nyanza backyard for the first time today where he will launch Universal Healthcare in Kisumu. He is then expected to visit Raila at his rural home in Bondo. Ruto, who has previously exploited such opportunities to slam the country's opposition leaders had no brickbats to hurl yesterday. Also speaking at Nyayo Stadium,Ruto said the presence of the opposition chiefs at the national day celebrations could not be taken for granted as it was President Kenyatta's initiative to unite the country. “This is a Jamhuri Day that is different from what we have witnessed in the past. We have our competitors who today join us as clear testimony of the unity of our country, the maturity of our democracy and the progress of our nation,” Ruto said. Also See: Uhuru's speech during Jamhuri Day celebrations Click here for the latest political news