For a county that has wallowed in immense marginalisation for decades under successive government regimes, it definitely comes as a major milestone for Lamu to be able to conduct its first-ever dialysis and CT scans right at home. While many counties boasted of various developments over the years, Lamu county leaders have voiced their concern of what they felt was the continued segregation of the region in matters infrastructure, budgetary allocation and general development, and have faulted the national government for every single of their complaint. Many sectors in this county have suffered not just the effects of the said marginalisation but the grip of insecurity caused by numerous al Shabaab attacks that have seen the tourism, health and education sectors suffer immense damage. For years, renal patients in need of dialysis services and CT scans have spent a fortune travelling to Mombasa, Nairobi and, when need be, outside the country in search of these services.  CHANGE OF TUNE However, locals and leaders are now singing a different tune, one of hope and relief after Health CS Sicily Kariuki recently commissioned the first-ever Dialysis and Computer Topography-CT Scan Centre at the King Fahad County Hospital in Lamu town. The equipment at the unit is worth Sh.1.1 billion and was procured by the national government under the Managed Equipment Service-Tiba Mashinani project-MES. The MES programme was launched by the national government in 2013 in all the 47 counties and is meant to boost effective health service delivery, in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four Agenda. This is especially good news for kidney patients in the region, who are now able to access dialysis right at the facility without having to be referred elsewhere, as has been the norm. The CS says the equipment will reinforce and empower the health sector to enable Lamu effectively deal with renal emergencies. This will bridge any resultant casualties that would have otherwise been caused by delayed treatment, a common characteristic of referrals. A team of specialists arrived in Lamu two weeks ago to ensure and oversee the functionality of the newly launched equipment and also help staff at the hospital better understand how to run the equipment for efficient service delivery. On November 16, the Lamu King Fahad Hospital conducted its first-ever successful dialysis and CT scans on the first five renal patients from the region at the new centre. The dialysis treatments are the first ever in Lamu County in 55 years of Independence.  STEADY PATIENT GROWTH Health Services director David Mulewa says the flow of patients requiring dialysis ever since the new centre was commissioned is growing steadily and that the facility is able to attend to all according to the various stages of their illness. Mulewa concurs that the greatest success of the new dialysis and CT scan centre is that Lamu is able to single-handedly handle all the cases reported so far without making a single referral. He said the centre receives at least five renal patients a day, some of whom are treated and allowed to leave while the most serious ones get admitted at the spacious facility. Generally, the launch of the new unit has seen increased patient numbers flock the hospital for various treatments. "For once we can do this right here. We never knew that so many people needed these services. We have successfully conducted our first five pilot treatments, two CT scans and three dialysis and our patients are doing just fine. We have admitted more other patients since the pilot and we have never been better," Mulewa said. He agrees that the fully furnished dialysis and CT scan centre is a major milestone in the provision of health services in the region. To ensure the effectiveness of services using the new MES equipment, the county has trained seven medical staff from different cadres at the Kenyatta National Hospital, who have been already dispatched to the new unit and are now working round the clock to ensure patients requiring dialysis and CT scan services are promptly attended to. Mulewa says they have also advertised three vacancies for specialists, who will man the facility round the clock and effectively deal with the steady flow of dialysis patients. "Our biggest concern is to ensure the centre has enough specialists and medics to operate throughout if need be, and that's why we have trained part of our staff up to middle level to handle the cases in the meantime. We are also receiving help from the team of specialists from Nairobi, but in the long run, we have put our adverts for three upper-level specialists who will be right here and run this unit," Mulewa says. Just like with any other venture, the new unit has not been all smooth sailing and Mulewa says their biggest challenge has been with the purchase of consumables for the new centre, which he says are not just expensive but also not readily available. "We are, however, learning how to navigate around this so that we can keep the centre up and running. We are working on bringing on reliable suppliers of the required drugs and so far, we can't complain.  FIRST DIALYSIS PATIENTS In the midst of all this, the first-ever patient to receive dialysis at the new centre has spoken, giving voice and hope to all others who come after him. Mohamed Mzee, 67, went onto the dialysis machine just as the CS Kariuki walked to commission his first session. With a radiance that only a redeemed soul knows, Mzee says he is more optimistic and was looking forward to living a healthy and fulfilled life after the successful dialysis. He admits that the initial thought that he would have to go to KNH in Nairobi for his dialysis had broken his heart. "Of course, I was beginning to give up hope that I would ever get the treatment I so much needed for my kidney disease. I don't have the money to travel to KNH in Nairobi where I had been referred not to mention money to pay for the several sessions I was to undergo. When my son told me I could get treated at the hospital I was ecstatic. I have started my dialysis and have never felt better in my life," he says. "The government has done many things for the people of Lamu, but if you ask me, this is the biggest of all. Kidney patients like me can sleep without having to imagine we are going to die for not being able to access timely dialysis. My life is renewed and so is my resilience. I will fight to beat this illness." Abubakar Hussein, who was the second to receive his dialysis at the facility, says life has never had as great meaning as since he learnt that he could wake in the morning, go for his dialysis session and go back to his house in Lamu town without much strain. "I have had previous sessions in Nairobi and it is hell. You have to worry about the fare and the bills then after the session, you have to worry about where to sleep, as the wards are normally so congested. But right now, I can do this and go back home or even sleep at the facility because it's spacious," he says. Hussein says apart from the fact that the facility is right at home, the dialysis sessions are also reasonable in cost, making it possible for many to afford the services. "I used to tell myself dialysis if for the rich because each session in Nairobi would cost me not less than Sh15,000 in a public hospital. But here, the cost is lower," he said.