Microsoft is urging users to update to the latest version of Internet Explorer after it discovered a serious flaw. The move came after a Google security engineer uncovered a memory-corruption vulnerability in the browser that was actively being exploited by hackers. It allowed them to easily takeover your PC by executing some malicious code. An emergency security patch was immediately issued by Microsoft to fix the vulnerability. The flaw affects Internet Explorer versions 9, 10 and 11, as well as all versions of Windows, according to the firm. "Today, we released a security update for Internet Explorer after receiving a report from Google about a new vulnerability being used in targeted attacks," the firm explained. Microsoft didn't say how many users have been affected by the vulnerability, known as CVE-2018-8653, but it detailed how the attack works in a post to its website. "A remote code execution vulnerability exists in the way that the scripting engine handles objects in memory in Internet Explorer," the firm explained. "The vulnerability could corrupt memory in such a way that an attacker could execute arbitrary code in the context of the current user. "An attacker who successfully exploited the vulnerability could gain the same user rights as the current user," Microsoft added. Microsoft said if the user is logged on with administrative rights, an attacker could use the vulnerability to effectively take control of the user's entire PC. For the attack to work, hackers have to get users to visit a malicious website. They could do so by sending a link to the malicious website via email, which the user might click, thereby giving the attacker control over their computer. Once they have access to the user's machine, they can install programs, view or change data and create accounts on the computer with full user rights, Microsoft said. If users have Windows Update installed and turned on, their computer should automatically update to the latest version of Internet Explorer. The firm said Windows users should install the latest update even if they don't use Internet Explorer regularly.