The deadline for boda boda operators to comply with safety guidelines has been extended to May next year. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi yesterday also banned scooters and Toyota Probox cars from the public transport business. “We recognise reforms are meant to be helpful, not stressful, therefore, these constructive conversations between the government and the boda boda fraternity are encouraged until we find a sustainable solution to the challenges,” Matiangi said. The CS was speaking after a closed-door meeting with the Transport CS James Macharia, the boda boda task force on reforms and the parliamentary caucus on Transport at the Kenya Institute of curriculum development. The task force gave an updae o its work. The new regulations will make it an offence to carry more than one passenger on a motorcycle. They require headlights to be onat all times. Boda boda owners will ensure that riders have all necessary documents. This will include licenses, insurance stickers and roadworthiness inspection stickers. Traders Tare required to issue two helmets and two reflector jackets for every motorcycle that they sell. Transport stakeholders blamed the riders for the increase in the accidents that have killed thousands and left others with permanent injuries. They said the time extension is meant to give stakeholders a fair chance to present their views before implementation of the recommendations by the task force. “However, as from May 1, next year we shall expect full conformity without exception and shall apply all the recommendations without hesitation,” Matiangi said. Read: Government appoints task force to implement boda boda laws The CS also extended the boda boda task force mandate to May. Its term was to lapse on January 31 next year. “The police should not relent in ensuring all PSVs adhere to the Michuki rules, more so during this festive season,” Interior permanent secretary Karanja Kibicho said. Kenya has 700,000 boda bodas. Transport ministry officials say that they may reach one million by 2020. Operators will also be required to obtain relevant licenses from the county and national government / They will be closely monitored following increased criminal activities in the sector. Many Kenyans have been killed by hit men on bikes. Kibicho said the boda boda transport business is popular, hence, pushing the government to regulate the sector to ensure the safety of the public is guaranteed. “Everyone on the road must follow the law so that we avoid accidents,” Kibicho said. Matiangi said the transport sector must be reformed to ensure there are no unnecessary accidents in the country. The leaders also agreed to extend the bodaboda taskforce mandate to May next year. Related: Be prepared, matatu crackdown here to stay, says Matiang'i Click here for
the latest political news