Governor Mike Sonko could find himself in problems after MCAs threatened to sanction him over his failure to appoint his deputy. The ward representatives on Wednesday criticised the governor’s frequent dismissal of senior county staff and his ‘one man show’ style of running the county. They decried Sonko’s ‘apparent refusal’ to appoint a replacement to the deputy governor position and constant transfer and suspension of county employees. The actions, they said, are hurting the delivery of services to Nairobi residents. “As a house, we need to be proactive and save Nairobians. We had given the governor two weeks to a point a deputy, the time elapsed and we don’t know what happened,” Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu said. The county has been running for close to a year now without a deputy governor following the resignation of Polycarp Igathe on January 31. Nominated MCA Leah Supuko said that operations of the county government are almost coming to a halt as most offices at City Hall have been closed after their holders were suspended. Kiragu, who also serves as chairman of Lands and Planning Committee, said some officers appointed to act are juniors and do not understand the nitty gritty of the dockets. Supuko said that some of the acting officers have been clueless when appearing before committees to respond to queries regarding their sectors. The MCAs were debating a report of the select committee on the implementation of the assembly resolutions by the county executive in the chamber. The report indicts the county executive for failing to implement the laws and motions passed by the MCAs over the last one year. It cites frequent transfer and suspension of staff as one of the reasons the executive cannot implement motions and enforce laws approved by the assembly. “The frequent and unprecedented transfer and suspension of the sectors’ representatives and other managerial officers is affecting the implementation of the sectors’ resolutions,” it reads. The report was tabled by Minority leader Elias Otieno. Sonko has sent more than 300 officers, including executives, chief officers and directors, on compulsory leave on grounds that they were either implicated in corruption or were disloyal. The report states that the county executive failed to submit its annual report on implementation status of the county policies and plans as provided for in law. “Most members of the county executive failed to comply with the provision of Standing Order and County Government Act, which require the relevant executive to implement,” it says.