Cynics have often wondered what makes Governor Okoth Obado a success in Migori politics. Few seem to know about the county’s ethnic blend, which provides excellent political fodder for the second-term governor. Unlike other Luo Nyanza counties, which are predominantly populated by homogeneous Luo, Migori is home to a number of small communal groups that make a huge voting bloc. Luos make up 40 per cent of the population and are referred to as the ‘onyal obiro’ (those who came to settle). The rest are a mix of indigenous groups constituting Bantus, Nilotes, Semites and Cushites who intermingle well with the exogenous Luos. Topping the list of small communities that have unwaveringly supported Obado since 2013 are the Kuria. With a population of about 260,000, according to the 2009 census, the community has about 94,000 votes and occupies two constituencies: Kuria West and East. The community has helped Obado pull a fast one on bigwigs supported by ODM leader Raila Odinga. He was elected governor in 2013 through the little-known PDP of Omingo Magara. He beat ODM’s renowned professor of history, Oyugi Okong’o. In 2017 he overwhelming won against ODM favourite, and Raila’s relative, Ochillo Ayacko (now senator). In the October senator by-election, Obado’s protégé Eddy Oketch gave Ayacko a run for his money, given that the latter was little known to voters, with his first attempt having been in the 2017 general election. The Kuria regard Obado as a close relative. They consider his wife Hellen Odie Nyainda ‘Umusubati’ (daughter), a revered title and relationship. Kuria tradition calls for great respect for in-laws and their endeavours. Hellen is from jo-Kadika clan in Suna East constituency and is of Suba origin. Her great grandfather Chacha Bwiri was a paramount chief who ruled the Kuria and Suba. Hellen’s two aunts are married to influential Kuria families. Subas are essentially Bantu and closely related to the Kuria. They speak a language similar to Kikuria, though they seem to have lost it due to assimilation by the domineering Luo. Obado’s elder son, Dan Toto, married from the populous Abakira clan in Kuria. The Subas constitute another significant voting bloc. They predominantly occupy Suna East and West constituencies, with a huge number spread in Uriri and Awendo constituencies. Suba traditions are similar to the Kuria’s, in that they are protective of in-laws. Obado’s county secretary, Christopher Rusana, is from the Suba community. He is quite influential politically and served as town clerk in several municipalities, including Kehancha and Kisumu. He is said to be Obado’s heir-apparent in 2022. With four constituencies under his belt, Obado has always had a head start in any political contest. And that’s before you rope in the populous Nyatike, regarded as his favourite constituency. His mother, Mama Susam Achola, is from Munyu village in the vast Macalder Kanyarwanda ward, Nyatike. Hardly a month passes by without Obado visiting to initiate projects. Nyatike has at least 70,000 voters with a political soft spot for Obado. The Luhya migrants in Migori have a loyal vote basket of 40,000 registered voters. Their voting pattern always swings with the prevailing political winds and they hardly vote outside their hosts, the Luo. The majority dwell around Uriri, Obado’s home. Obado is from the larger Kanyamkago clan in Uriri. There are also a few Luhya families in Kuria West. Obado picked a Luhya youth, Moses Kivanda, from the influential Reverend Kivanda’s family as Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock Development executive after the 2013 election. Kivanda is now Roads and Public Works executive. Rongo constituency is the home of veteran politician Dalmas Otieno, a close ally of Obado. The governor has won majority votes from the constituency courtesy of Dalmas. Before he accepted the SRC commissioner appointment, Dalmas was headed for a landslide win in the senator by-election. Save for Awendo constituency, where Ayacko comes from, there is significant support for Obado from those he has helped in his six years in power. Then there are the Somali, Nubia and Kikuyu who make a sizeable voting bloc that tilts the balance in Obado’s favour.  Obado’s former communications director 