Some 15 MPs and a governor from Central Kenya have said the political pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William is still intact. The leaders said their support for Ruto in 2022 when Uhuru's term comes to an end is not negotiable. They included Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Kirinyaga deputy governor Peter Ndambiri, MPs Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), and Kareke Mbiuki (Maara). Others are Patrick Munene (Chuka Igamba’ngombe), John Muchiri (Manyatta) Mpuru Aburi (EALA), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Beatrice Nkatha (Women Rep, Tharaka Nithi) and George Kariuki (Ndia). They spoke on Saturday when they accompanied the DP during a tour of Kirinyaga and Tharaka Nithi counties. Read: DP Ruto intensifies 2022 campaign in drives disguised as official duties The leaders said there was an agreement for Uhuru to serve two terms, and then the DP takes over for another two. "I also want to concur with those who talked earlier that as people from this region, we will honour the 2013 political pact between President Uhuru the DP come the next General Election," Kindiki said. Ndambiri said residents from Central Kenya will not be misled to support another candidate. "People here at the grassroots know that their President in 2022 is none other than William Ruto,” he said. Muthomi said they stand by the Jubilee agreement which was entered into in 2013. Aburi said leaders in Mt Kenya will stand with Ruto in 2022. "All we want here is a development-minded person like Ruto. We will support him for the presidency when the time comes," he said. "The journey is long but we are fully behind the DP. You are our true friend because others are just known for stories and nothing to show." Ichungwa said no amount of intimidation will stop them from backing Ruto. Linturi told the Deputy President not to be distracted by people who have no development agenda. Read: We’ll back Ruto – Kikuyu team See also: Now Central Kenya election losers gang up to fix Ruto Other leaders who spoke in the local dialect said they would respect the 2013 political pact between Uhuru and Ruto. The DP said he will continue focusing on his job as President Uhuru's principal assistant to ensure the Jubilee agenda is fulfilled. He said his responsibility is to help the President in ensuring successful implementation of development projects across the country. Ruto said he would not be distracted by those engaging him in premature competitive politics. "I took an oath and pledged to assist the President and, therefore, I will do the job diligently. No one will distract me," said Mr Ruto. The DP launched Kianjege-Mukangu-Ndimaini-Karatina and Kiburu-Kabonge roads at Kiburu and later launched Ndia Technical Training Institute. Ruto, at the same time, said the government will support farmers to increase production of both food and cash crops. He said international markets for avocado, macadamia, coffee and tea have been secured, a move aimed at earning farmers more cash. Ruto said the government has spent Sh1 billion to subsidise fertiliser for coffee farmers and provide coffee seedling to farmers to expand coffee production. He said Sh900 million will be used to connect an additional 20,000 homes to power in Kirinyaga County. Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru said it was through the development of technical education that more jobs will be created. Click here for the latest political news