Watching the news from Kenya over December, it occurred to me that sometimes our political leaders get into the spirit of the season and see themselves as Santa Claus bearing gifts. Of course, some gifts are appreciated and others immediately re-gifted, while the rest gather dust and generate resentment in dark corners of the cupboard. Think about it. Over the years since Independence, Kenya has received a few memorable December gifts, of both the wanted and unwanted variety. In December 1963, we received the gift of Independence from our erstwhile colonial masters, the British. I say it was a gift, but really, Independence was something that had long been demanded and for which blood had been shed. It was more a fact of the British acquiescing than them willingly handing over authority. As Jock Ewing from Dallas (and I don’t mean Muthurwa) once told his son Bobby: “Nobody gives you power. Real power is something you take!” I like to believe that Independence was something most Kenyans wanted, and we took it. The following December, our new leaders made us believe we were even more independent by declaring the country a Republic and having Prime Minister Kenyatta switch to being President, with Oginga Odinga as Vice President. This gift was meant to be a sequel to the previous one. Of course nothing, not even a Christmas love affair, is forever. By 1969, Kenyatta and Odinga had fallen out. The latter had gone on to form an opposition party, which lasted a few years before being banned in the run-up to the December 1969 elections. That Christmas, Kenyans got an unsolicited gift — that of single-party rule. This gift lasted the country 22 years. We managed to trade it in during December 1991 at a special conference of the then one and only political party in the country. There, the demands of Kenyans for a return to multiparty politics were reluctantly accepted in the manner of the British colonialists back in 1963. At this point, Kenyans should have been reminded of the saying: “Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it.” But we were too busy being excited to notice the small print that spelled out the terms and conditions of our new gift. It wasn’t until after the following December as they went to the ballot that Kenyans discovered the small print a little too late. It would take until the formation of the Inter-Parties Parliamentary Group in the run-up to the December 1997 elections to fix Kanu’s defective 1991 gift. In December 2002, Kenyans gave themselves the gift of throwing out Kanu from power. Or at least so they thought, until the Bananas and Oranges of November 2005 gave them an early Christmas pudding that then rumbled around the digestive system, until it was forcibly evacuated just after Christmas 2007. The next momentous December came in 2012, when two bitter political rivals figured out Kenyans were adverse to looking into the mouths of gift horses, and so wrapped themselves in the colours of happiness and sold themselves to Kenyans as the best Christmas present ever. This Christmas, let’s be careful what political presents we accept. Follow me on Twitter @MwangiGithahu