Telkom Kenya’s perfect run in the Africa Cup for Club Championships crumbled yesterday at the hands of defending champions Ghana Revenue Authority in their final round robin match. The loss means the two rival teams will lock horns once again on Saturday as the Kenyans seek to avenge their painful 1-0 final loss to the Ghanaians that saw them relinquish their title early this year in Accra, Ghana. The first-half was tense with GRA fully aware of the prize at stake. Both teams did flash early danger signs though things changed in the second half as a Vivian Narkuoh penalty corner conversion in the third quarter was enough to give the Ghanaian giants their third victory in the tournament, a result that assured them a place in the final. The result meant Telkom ended top of the round-robin phase on 12 points but locked out Ghana Police, who finished third with 10 points, a point behind compatriots. Meanwhile, after coming close against Ghana Police but falling short in the end, Kenya’s USIU Spartans finally earned their first win of the tournament after defeating hosts Kada Queens. The two sides, who went into the game on the back of two defeats, were evenly matched in the opening ten minutes but the Queens started to pull away in the second quarter in which they edged their opponents 1-0 after a 27th minute goal from Benedicta Johnson. After conceding the opening goal, the students took control in the opponents’ territory and managed to pull an the equaliser in the 37th minute through Harriette Omindi who sounded the boards to the chagrin of the home fans. The match did not stay level for long as only minutes into the fourth quarter, the debutants fired up by their equaliser, scored their second and final goal courtesy of Rhoda Nyambura. The hosts threw everything forward in the closing stages of the match with coach Baba Ndana throwing on more attacking players in search of an equaliser but their efforts were thwarted . The win saw the Kenyans move to fourth on the log, potentially setting up a 3rd vs 4th place play-off match against Ghana Police tomorrow. “It was a really tough game for us but we are proud that we were able to finally register a win,” said captain Grace Akumu. Technical manager John Kabuu said he was happy that the team was able to score a goal to end their long drought. “I was beginning to get worried that we would end the tournament having only scored two goals in five games but I am happy that our forwards were able to deliver the goods. We have now shifted our focus to the bronze medal match on Saturday and we hope to come back home with the medal,” he said.