Some Kenyans may be feeling a sense of “déju
vu” — we’ve seen this before. We have the Director of Public
Prosecutions complaining that the courts are releasing on bail high profile
suspects in corruption cases, who promptly interfere with the evidence (not to
mention the President fulminating about “ridiculously low bail terms”). On the
other hand, we have the Chief Justice blaming the DPP for not producing enough
evidence to make it possible for the courts to convict. Victor Ndula’s cartoon
in this paper last Tuesday summed it up nicely. It is all a bit reminiscent of the days
when the EACC (or its predecessor) would whinge about having sent perfectly
good files of evidence to the DPP who did nothing with them, while the DPP
complained that the evidence presented was not strong enough. Maybe this week the DPP is feeling
justified: A computer with vital evidence about SGR compensation payments disappeared
from the offices of the National Land Commission. And the media are hinting
that this is not unconnected with the courts having ruled that the NLC chairman,
who has been charged, maybe in connection with those very payments, was allowed
by a court to return to work. Are we, however, not entitled to wonder
whether DCI George Kinoti can explain how such vital evidence, if that is what
it is, has been allowed to remain in the clutches of the NLC? How can people
ever be convicted if the police have neither the wit nor competence to secure
the evidence? How do they even arrest people if they do not yet have control of
the evidence?  BAIL AND THE
PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE The Constitution says everyone arrested
has the right to be released on bail unless there are “compelling reasons” for
them not to be. It is the job of the prosecution (the DPP’s department) to convince
the court that compelling reasons exist. It is understandable that, with the tidal
wave of media reporting about corruption, and the excitement generated by the
protestations by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Kinoti and DPP Noordin Haji about
nailing the culprits, that the public tend to assume that anyone arrested is
guilty. And to think of arrest and detention as being part of the punishment.
But it remains important that the principle of being innocent until proved
guilty is preserved. Not convicting the innocent is as important as convicting
the guilty. It is ironic to find our President
complaining about rulings based on the concept of the presumption of innocence.
Five High Court judges held that, despite being charged before the
International Criminal Court, Uhuru and DP William Ruto could not be prevented
for standing for election in 2013 — because of the presumption of innocence.
The court quoted the distinguished and humane South African judge Albie Sachs.
He said, “There is a paradox at the heart of all criminal procedure in that the
more serious the crime and the greater the public interest in securing
convictions of the guilty, the more important do constitutional protections of
the accused become.”  WHAT CAN BE
‘COMPELLING REASONS’? The Constitution does not say what reasons
are compelling, but there are bail guidelines for the courts suggesting that
the main justifications for denying bail are: That the accused person would run
away (which is apparently a significant problem), would intimidate witnesses or
interfere with the evidence, or endanger someone, or the public, or commit a
serious crime. You can see immediately that this is a
hard decision for a court to make: If it decides that one of these things might
happen it is really saying that the accused person will behave like a guilty
person. In other words it is to some extent pre-judging the result of the
current trial. However, perhaps courts could impose
tougher terms on prominent, powerful accused persons, including staying away
from their offices entirely. It is not irrational to worry that a
senior person in an organisation who is charged with a criminal offence
connected with his or her work there might be tempted, if allowed back into the
office, to try to minimise the risk of conviction for the crime. The DPP’s
concern is understandable. He has argued that such people ought to be suspended
from office until the trial is complete.  THE LAW ON
SUSPENSION The Constitution provides that, if formal
proceedings are started for certain public officers to be removed from office
for integrity, gross misbehaviour or incompetence, the President must suspend
them from office while the process goes on. Those officers are judges, members
of commissions and holders of constitutional offices, including the DPP. Half
of the officer’s regular salary is also suspended. Would it be constitutional to provide in
law for suspension, even if the Constitution does not specifically allow it?
The Public Service Commission Act and the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes
Act do this. The first says any public officer charged with a serious criminal
offence must be suspended. The second notes any public officer or state officer
charged with corruption or economic crime must be suspended until the case is
concluded (provided it concludes within two years). The officer is on half pay
during that time but with full allowances. Does suspension from office violate a
person’s right to be presumed innocent until found guilty? Some suspended
county officers raised this before Justice Mumbi Ngugi a few years ago. She said the ACECA was not
unconstitutional, and insisted that suspension did not interfere with the right
to a fair criminal trial. Incidentally, the accused were eventually acquitted,
which is of course irrelevant to how they were treated beforehand, though it
does suggest that the presumption of their innocence was not affected.  WHY ARE
SUSPECTS NOT BEING SUSPENDED? Though the Constitution does not provide
for suspension because a criminal prosecution has been brought, the drafters
clearly felt that suspension is sometimes justified. So why are people not
being suspended? The answer lies perhaps in ACECA itself: Its
provision about suspension does not apply, if the Constitution says why and
when the officer may be removed. But the Constitution does not deal with the
situation where the officer is charged with a crime – only where someone seeks
the officer’s removal. Presumably the DPP wants to remove this exception in
ACECA And only a few state officers are
protected from the impact of suspension under ACECA. Are others not being
suspended? If not, why? Is one problem that the Act does not say who is to
suspend them?  HOW ABOUT
SUSPENDING PAY? Hong Kong’s Court of Final Appeal decided
a case about a police officer most of whose pay was stopped while he was on
suspension because they were charged with a crime. The court said that the
right to be treated as innocent until proved guilty was violated, if the
suspension of pay amounted to saying the Police Commissioner thought the
officer was guilty of a crime. But, the court said, it
indicated only that he thought he might be guilty. It is only right to note that another
distinguished and humane judge, Justice Bokhary, disagreed with the other
judges and said that to withhold part of an officer’s pay during suspension was
not consistent with the fundamental right to be presumed innocent. And in South Africa, the Constitutional
Court said, “Suspension without pay defies the exceedingly important presumption
of innocence until proven guilty … and unfairly undermines the [suspended
person’s] ability to challenge the validity of the suspension by
withholding the salary and benefits.” However, the South African law was
different from ours: Suspending pay was decided by the minister, who also
carried out the inquiry. So for the minister to suspend pay would suggest his
or her mind was already made up about guilt.  And stopping pay of officers
suspended is not in the South African Constitution-unlike ours. Finally, even if suspending pay is
problematic, suspending senior officers from work seems desirable, especially
if the alleged offence is connected with that work.