The botched translocation that led to the deaths of 10 black rhinos in July was badly planned, with lack of due diligence, a report has shown. The report was prepared by a seven-member technical team assembled by the Kenya Veterinary Board to probe the circumstances surrounding the deaths. The team was appointed on August 3 and required to file its report by August 30. The report was posted on the board’s official website on Monday. “Water quality and reliability considerations were not adequately taken into account during the early phases of planning of the Tsavo East National Park Sanctuary,” it reads. Kenya Wildlife Service together with World Wildlife Fund-Kenya commissioned the translocation of 11 black rhinos from Nairobi and Nakuru national parks to a sanctuary in Tsavo East. Ten of the rhinos succumbed to salt poisoning, while one was killed by rhinos. In its findings, the team said the animals were killed by highly saline borehole water. The translocation cost Sh100 million. The vets’ report indicates that testing and assessment of water quality at the park appeared not to have been prioritised. The findings were not supplied to those making critical decisions on translocation, it says. “Water quality assessment came in late in the project and when it was done, the results generated were not shared with KWS management and notably the Veterinary and Capture Services Department involved in planning, the translocation process,” the report reads. The Vijay Varma-led team found that the environment assessment report relied on for the process was produced seven years ago. “The Environmental Impact Assessment was carried way back in 2011 to inform the translocation exercise in 2018, a very long waiting period bringing into question the validity of the report,” the report says. Read: Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions It also cites the frequent changes at the wildlife agency’s board, saying that this has affected the stability of the management of the KWS. The report exonerates the veterinary officers that Tourism CS Najib Balala suspended in the wake of the scandal. “The KWS utilised veterinarians in their employment who are very experienced in the translocation process, clinical work and postmortem. An independent pathologist in good standing with the board corroborated the postmortem findings,” it says. Kenya Union of Veterinary Practitioners chairman Benson Kibore had threatened court action against the KWS and Balala, arguing that the suspended vets “were used to cover up the failures of the top management.” KVB chairman Christopher Wanga told the Star that the report was professional and accurate. Also Read: KWS officers 'shocked, traumatised' by deaths of rhinos at Tsavo - Balala Click here for the latest political news