As Christmas and New Year festivities continue, and 2018 comes to a close, it is important to take stock of the year that was, to celebrate past wins, and learn from experienced challenges. With a particular focus on Kenya’s Tourism sector, we can confirm that 2018 was indeed a good year for Kenya’s Tourism. A number of wins were experienced in this sector through the year, not least of which was the introduction of direct flights between Kenya and the US. Direct flights between Nairobi’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and New York’s John F. Kennedy (JFK) International Airport are expected to significantly increase tourism, business opportunities and investment between Kenya and the US. On the tourism front, Kenya is hinging on the ease of travel between Kenya and the US (cut down from 24 hours to 15 hours) to attract increased tourism from the Americas, i.e. the US and Canada, and South American countries. As the world’s second highest source of tourists, it is expected that increased demand from American tourists will significantly increase Kenya’s gains from the Tourism sector. Case in point, tourism between the US and Kenya grew by 17% between 2016 and 2017, from 97,883 in 2016 to 114,507 in 2017. This upward trajectory is expected to increase further in 2018. Similarly, growth in intra-African tourism is expected to largely benefit Kenya’s tourism sector. This follows efforts through the year by top African leaders to introduce visa or arrival policies amongst African states, as well as to liberalise air travel in Africa through the introduction of the Single African Air Transport Market. Due to the introduction of these favourable policies, intra-African trade, which stood as Kenya’s second largest source of tourists in 2017 – 29% - is expected to experience a moderate to significant increase, largely hinged on the ease of travel into the Kenyan market. Other factors that point at 2018 being a great year for Kenya’s tourism sector is increased local travel by Kenyan citizens, as well the completion of significant infrastructure investments in Kenya’s top tourist destinations, including the SGR link between Nairobi and Mombasa, the Dongo Kundu bypass and expansion of Malindi Airport. In relation to local tourism, it is evident that the same is on the rise, with marketing efforts by local travel agencies, together with key stakeholders such as the Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) and the Ministry of Tourism, paying off. Key campaigns targeted as incentivizing local tourism, such as Magical Kenya, Tembea Kenya and Okoa Holiday have paid generous dividends with more Kenya’s opting to travel locally during the holiday season. All the above factors considered, 2018 is poised to be a great year for Kenya’s transportation sector. The onus is now on us to ensure that the gains experienced in 2018 similarly increase in the coming year. Karen Kandie – MD IDB Capital   