 December 1. This is the day that has been globally designated to unite
in the fight against HIV-Aids to show support for those infected, to remember
those who have died of the disease and to raise awareness on its causes, spread
and treatment in a bid to reduce new infections, stigma and, its possible
eradication. December 3. This is the day the county government of Nairobi designated
to eradicate all matatus from picking up and dropping off passengers in the
central business district as part of measures to decongest the city centre.  But just as quickly as it was effected, the
ban was lifted the following day citing concern on the plight of city residents,
who had to walk for long distances to their work places. At face value, HIV-Aids and Matatus may appear as disparate as chalk and
cheese. However, the successful response to the eradication of the two ought to
be uncannily similar. Sadly it is not. And this is because we have classified
the matatu menace as a cultural indiscipline rather than treating it as a
medical disorder. -osis is a suffix that denotes diseases, disorders, or pathological
states. Examples include tuberculosis, neurosis, thrombosis and silicosis. To
this list, we should add matatuosis. And this is because matatuosis has become
an endemic disease in this country. A disease is a disorder that adversely impairs
normal functioning in living species; and an endemic disease is one that is
perennially present within a given geographic area or population. The eradication of a disease cannot happen overnight. And perhaps this
could explain why there have been many failed attempts at banning matatus from
accessing the CBD. The unsuccessful attempts date as far back as 2004, when the
then minister for Transport, the late John Michuki’s efforts failed, despite
his success in injecting a code of conduct such as seatbelts, speed governors
and uniforms for the drivers and touts for easy identification. Other attempts
were by Uhuru Kenyatta in 2008, who at the time was the Local Government minister.
Ironically, in his case, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko opposed the ban through a
court process. His predecessor, Evans Kidero tried his luck in 2015, and Governor
Sonko, who was the Senator at the time, also opposed this move. Twice Governor
Sonko has tried to implement the ban, once last year and this recent ban. The process of disease eradication starts with establishing the
rationale and goal. The former should summarize the current knowledge about the
disease situation, its impacts, and level of interests by stakeholders. The
latter should establish what is realistically achievable given that
eradication, although desirable, may be unobtainable. In the case of
matatuosis, data gaps abound on the number of matatus on our road on any
specific days of the week and times of the day; the socioeconomic impact this
has on Nairobi residents; and who the actual players are in this industry and
their levels of interest in maintaining order or chaos. As for the goal, the ban was intended to eradicate all matatus from the
CBD. However, this objective was made against the absence of data on the
acceptable levels of numbers of matatus that can optimally operate in the CBD,
and the number of new matatus being acquired or licensed into the sector.
Without this data, it is difficult to determine whether the goal of the ban is
achievable or not. The second step is control. This means the reduction of the disease to an
acceptable level as a result of deliberate efforts and continued intervention
measures to maintain the reduction. Control strategies include movement control
to avoid spread, restrictions on imports and stamping out. In the case of
matatuosis, there is no control on matatu movement, no expunction of
unroadworthy vehicles and no prohibition of new matatu imports. The third step is elimination. This is the reduction to zero in a
defined geographical space. This requires sustained control measures over time.
The fourth step is eradication or ban. This is the complete and permanent
reduction to zero of the disease. It is thus evident that the jump to matatu
bans in the CBD is injudicious, and it is no wonder that these bans have not
been successful. In disease control, there are other factors that contribute to its
success or failure. These include level of societal and political commitment in
its eradication process. In the case of matutuosis, the ban was met with a lot of resistance from
the travellers and populist calls from politicians to rescind the ban. With
diseases, there must be a feasible intervention that is field-tested in a
defined geographical area and found effective. However, the matatu ban was not
piloted, but rather a blanket ban was applied across the county. To successfully
eradicate a disease, there must be consensus on the disease priority and
eradication response developed by experts, decisionmakers and the scientific
community. The matatu bans that have been applied over the last 14 years are
virtue signals devoid of a clear scientific approach backed by credible data
and tested options.  Disease eradication
requires a robust advocacy plan and effective alliance with all potential
collaborators and partners. With matatuosis, the bans are discussed among county policy officers,
matatu owners and law enforcement. The challenge with this configuration is
that it represents only the supply side of the equation, leaving out the demand
side of travelers. Therefore, the needs of the latter are rarely factored into
the positions negotiated. I submit that like disease eradication, matatu bans are laudable goals,
but they carry with them a huge responsibility. There should be no room for
failure. Hence careful and deliberate evaluation is a prerequisite before embarking
on them. Begs the question, with matatuosis eradication, is this a goal that
can be achieved in the present or future generation? Finally, my unsolicited advice to Governor Sonko, correlation does not
imply causation. Your matatu ban was supposed to de-congest the CBD. However,
the traffic gridlock that was witnessed during the ban was unprecedented. So,
are matatus really the cause of the city’s congestion?  A sincere politician is like dry water or a
wooden iron - Anonymous 