During Jamhuri celebrations, President
Uhuru Kenyatta wished Kenyans a Merry Christmas. Not withstanding, millions of
Kenyans are too poor to celebrate and enjoy this holiday. Enjoying Christmas in Kenya is associated
with eating good food such as rice, bread, chapati and meat, which arguably the
poor majority do not eat everyday. And in the event people are not able to
celebrate in this manner, it is considered a great disappointment. Christmas was a colonial holiday for which
Africans were encouraged and given time off to go and celebrate. But colonial
masters did not give Africans money to spend. Africans, therefore, had to save
painfully as they do today: Free from colonial masters but not the colonial
culture. During this festive period, it has become customary
for those who can afford to go on holiday, where they spend sumptuously as a
once in a year treat to oneself and family. But as Christmas has become more
materialistic and less spiritual, more and more spending is associated with
it. Today Christmas has become more and more a holiday of spending and
lesser and lesser a holiday of the poor. While the Chinese government gives workers
and peasants money to spend on holidays to reduce the overheating of the
economy, our President wishes people Merry Christmas but government gives them no
money to spend. As government gives people a prolonged
holiday to celebrate Christmas, many are too poor to buy medicine. While many dream
of happiness during Xmas, they cannot afford to buy new clothes for children. And while Christmas is associated with generosity of Father Xmas, many are too poor
to buy gifts for relatives and friends. Indeed, during Christmas, many children
cannot visit their sick parents abroad, nor can many parents visit their sick
children undergoing treatment abroad. Uhuru must not just wish Kenyans a Merry Christmas. Unlike colonial governments, his administration must give or help people
to raise money to spend during these festivities. Accordingly, the government
must pay money it owes people who have worked for it. It must also pay victims
of torture and detention without trial their awards by the courts as redress
for persecution. Government cannot really wish victims of
torture happy holidays when it is withholding people’s cash. Nor should the President
wish retired teachers Merry Christmas without paying them their retirement cash that
the courts have awarded them. Government must also pay media houses the money it
owes. Wishing broke people happy holidays absolutely makes no sense. This is especially at a period where state
officers are spending billions of shillings to travel abroad, as colossal
amounts are being looted. As we consider presidential good wishes
for a Merry Christmas, we must state it is unjust for government not to pay court
awards, retirement benefits as well as media debts. But ultimately, it is up to Attorney
General Paul Kihara Kariuki to advise the government, which will give Uhuru the
moral authority to wish Kenyans a Merry Xmas. For this advice, the Attorney
General can reiterate to us words I once heard from him and read in the book The Winslow Boy: Let right be done though
heavens fall – a fitting resolution for all of us in the New Year.  