We read about corruption cases
everyday. In Kenya, corruption is no more occasional. It is pervasive.
But why has it become second nature in Kenya, where it is regarded as a crime
and publicly condemned? First corruption is pervasive in
Kenya because leaders who should end it are morally crippled and have lost all
the capacity to fight and protect people and government from it. Second, once crippled, leaders no
longer take responsibility for their failure to end corruption by resigning, to
give other Kenyans a chance to fight and end graft, mainly because society
lacks the culture of leaders resigning when they fail. Third, because of having corrupt
leaders, one can confidently say, our leaders have no will, reason and
intention to end corruption because they are or have been
beneficiaries as a means of self-enrichment. When leaders are beneficiaries of
corruption, they cannot be expected to fight or end it. Fourth, once corruption has made
some people rich, as beneficiaries, they cannot be called upon to fight
corruption because in their heart, they will have a soft spot for it. Anyone
with a whiff of corruption should not be tolerated, pardoned, employed or asked
to investigate and fight corruption because that would be asking him to commit
suicide. The only people who should be mobilised to fight corruption are its
victims though many will lack the power to fight and eradicate it. Five, even if men and women of
integrity need not be victims of corruption, though every Kenyan will
ultimately be its victim, moral individuals should be called upon to fight
graft because it is their natural enemy. Six, corruption spreads fast in
Kenya because some who are called upon to fight it are not men and women of
integrity. A vehicle cannot move without fuel and equally, one who fights
corruption cannot do so without moral values. Seven, corruption is also growing
fast in Kenya because, so far, even as we declare our intention to fight it, we
have created a society that we can equate with a jungle, where the strong eat
the weak, meat eaters fatten on grass eaters and the rich maul the poor. One
cannot embrace a jungle society and at the same time avoid corruption. Eight, Kenyans have also imbibed
negative ethnicity that in turn convinces them that they have a right to be
corrupt and steal where they work. As members of their communities, many
Kenyans believe it is their turn to eat and steal from government ministries
and corporations they are in charge of. Nine, Kenyans mistakenly believe it
is their right and that of their communities to be corrupt. Stemming from this
belief that they are entitled to steal, many Kenyans believe it is unfair and
discriminatory for government to arrest and prosecute them for
corruption. Ten, that some people look surprised
when they are arrested and prosecuted suggest belief that they cannot have been
employed in their big ministries and corporation but to plunder and steal from
them. When political allies share government ministries and parastatals it is
in order to loot and pillage them for individual and ethnic wealth. Finally, Kenya is going through
state capture by corruption of some government officials and private sector.
And like in South Africa, unless this corruption is fought back, its capture of
state institutions and corporations will not be stopped, undone and reversed.   