Webtribe Limited which hosts NHIF servers has been barred from accessing its offices over fears it could interfere with services. Top managers of the National Hospital Insurance Fund have been charged with fraud involving Sh1.1 billion. Yesterday, the Director of Public Prosecutions obtained orders barring Webtribe from accessing its offices before the server systems are secured. The firm was charged alongside its two directors Danson Njunji and Robert Muna with fraudulent acquisition of public property on Monday. It is accused of obtaining Sh1.1 billion from NHIF. The company acquired the cash between August 15, 2014 and October 31, 2018. Read: NHIF, Web Tribe bosses released on Sh2m bail in graft case State counsel Carol Kimiri said services provided by the public health insurer will be greatly affected if the company or its agent interferes with the systems. She said all the payments to NHIF through the Integrated Revenue Collection System are domiciled in the systems manned by Webtribe and sought a no access order to the premises at the View Park Towers. Anti-Corruption Court chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti granted the orders. Ogoti said although the company was not in court to respond to Kimiri’s application, the prayers by Kimiri are of greater public interest. The court ordered the firm not to interfere with the servers. Kimiri pledged to serve the order to the company. The orders allows the DCI’s Serious Crimes Unit to secure the firm’s premises and block its officials from retrieving material that would interfere with NHIF servers. Read: Lives may have been lost in NHIF crimes, says DPP Kimiri made the application during the plea taking of the NHIF tender committee member Millicent Mwangi and internal auditor David Nzuki. Mwangi is charged with willful failure to comply with law relating to public procurement and disposal. She is charged alongside six top managers with failure to review, verify and ascertain that the procurement was undertaken in accordance with the terms set out in the tender documents thus awarding the supply of the Integrated Revenue Collection Services to Webtribe against the intended procurement. Nzuki is charged with two counts of neglect of official duty. He is accused of willfully neglecting to perform his duties by failing to stop irregular payment of Sh49,513,440 and another Sh179,298,575 to Webtribe on December 19, 2014. The two denied the charges. They were released on a Sh1 million bond with an alternative bail of Sh500,000. A pretrial will be be held in January to set hearing dates. Also read: NHIF receptionist paid Sh160m for 8 houses Click here for the latest political news