Following shambolic performance in Dubai over the weekend, Shujaa have been drawn in tough pool for the Cape Town Sevens, where they face England, Fiji and France this weekend. Kenya picked up a paltry point in Dubai after losing all six matches over two days. Paul Murunga’s charges lost to Scotland 35-14 , France 21-14 and 43-12 to Fiji on the opening day to drop to the Challenge Trophy Things did not improve in the second tier category, where they lost 26-19 to minnows Spain to drop further down to the 13th play-off match, where they lost to Japan by a similar score line It was a rude awakening for Murunga and his charges with several missed tackles and no defence in all six fixtures. Murunga is without five experienced players, who went to play in the World Cup repechage in Marseille, France last month. They include talisman Collins Injera, former skipper Andrew Amonde, Willy Ambaka, Sammy Oliech and Nelson Oyoo. In Dubai, Murunga only had skipper Eden Agero, Dennis Ombachi and Jeff Oluoch as the experienced players in the 12-man squad. Agero said the side must bounce back in the next tournament and put up competitive performances if they are to salvage the start to the campaign. “It’s very disappointing. We have a couple of days to sort out our defence and ensure we work hard to avoid the embarrassment we got in Dubai and ensure our defence is much better,” added Agero. Agero said the debutants put up a spirited display in the six matches. “It was tough introduction for some of them but they battled hard and they have learned some lessons from the opener,” added Agero. He said they must get points in Cape Town to avoid the talk of relegation. “We must get points in Cape Town if we don’t want to put ourselves under massive pressure when we go to the new year. It’s a scenario we want to avoid at all costs,” he added. Pool A: New Zealand , South Africa, Samoa, Zimbabwe Pool B: USA, Argentina, Espana, Japan Pool C: England, Fiji, France, Kenya Pool D: Australia, Scotland, Canada, Wales