Several politicians from Nyanza and Nairobi say former Prime Minister Raila Odinga must run for President in 2022. The legislators said the ODM leader stands his best chance in 2022. They spoke on Wednesday during the Ndhiwa Sports and Cultural Festival at Pala Primary School presided over by Raila yesterday. The debate was started by Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma who said ODM cannot go into the next election without Raila. He said although Raila had warned them against discussing the 2022 presidential race, as his supporters, they were free to request him to contest. “We know ODM will not go to 2022 election without a candidate and that should be Raila. I say here that we cannot go for that election without Raila as the presidential candidate,” Kaluma said. Others who supported the call are Senator Moses Kajwang’ ( Homa Bay) Woman representative Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Martin Owino (Ndhiwa), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Adipo Okuome (Karachuoyo), James Nyikal (Seme), Tom Kajwang’ (Ruaraka) and Antony Oluoch (Mathare). Oburu and Owino said many Kenyans still support Raila. “Raila still wields much support across the country because of his good ideas of developing this country. He is not supported because of his tribe,” Oburu said. The EALA MP argued that it is wrong for anybody to argue that Raila should stop contesting presidency because of his age. He said the age could not deter Raila from winning presidency and leading Kenya effectively. “Some people say that Raila is old. This is untrue because I am still young yet Raila is my follower,” Oburu said. Owino said Raila will not be the sole decision-maker when it comes to the 2022 race. “ODM will make a decision on who will contest the presidency. Raila will not make it alone,” Owino added. Wanga urged ODM supporters to keep hopes alive for the presidency. “Let our supporters not get tired. We achieve our key objective, ensuring Raila wins the presidency,” Wanga said. Raila however evaded the talks and instead promised Kenyans that all the agenda in their Building Bridges Initiative are implemented. The opposition leader said the initiative will cushion Kenyans from discrimination, corruption, inequitable distribution of public resources. “We are working together with President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure all agenda in the building bridges initiative are implemented,” he said. Raila said this would ensure peace prevails for economic growth.