Majority of the 900 firefighters employed countrywide do not have the skills required to do their work professionally. This is because the government has not trained firefighters for the last 30 years which has forced majority of them to work without any formal training. Many counties are also yet to procure fire-fighting apparatus or establish fire-fighting departments, condemning locals to loss of life and property. An American NGO has however been training fire fighters for last six years and facilitating them with the required equipment. Africa Fire Mission has been holding annual fire academies to equip both fighters and the community with the knowledge on fire fighting and prevention since its inception in 2012. The organisation's Executive Director David Moore has said firefighters are also trained on emergency vehicles operation and emergency medical training. Moore who was speaking at the closing ceremony of a one week training forum in Murang'a town on Saturday said there is an extremely low awareness among locals on fire fighting. "Majority do not know about fire and emergency services, prevention of fires and what to do before a fire engine reaches a fire site," he said. The country's fire fighting capacity is also very low, he said, but has seen a consistent improvement since the organisation started organising fire fighting academies. Moore who is a chief fore fighter in Ohio state in the United States said he was prompted to form the organisation after visiting the country and realising that Nairobi city had only two fire engines. Moore who was then a volunteer with Mission of Hope International NGO said the organisation was set up and embarked on seeking ways of remedying the situation months later. He said the instructors who train fire firefighters are volunteers who have to pay for their travel arrangements from the US. The organisation opened its offices in Nairobi and works closely with Mission of Hope NGO, the Kenya Fire Brigade Association, Kenya Council of Emergency Medical Technicians and County fire departmemts. He said the organisation is working with the partners to help put in place a policy that will ensure there is a standardised curriculum for fire fighters, paramedics and Emergency medical technicians. "The policy will ensure all these people are equipped with basic training as they go to the field to help. It will help them serve their communities better," Moore added. 16 counties participated in the week long academy held at Ihura stadium withe Meru fire brigade emerging the best in the firefighting competitions. Meru will host the next annual academy that will be held between November 16 to 23 next year. Moore noted that the organisation has spread its reach to other African countries including Ethiopia, Malawi and Zambia.    