It is unfortunate that, as a country, we have come to be associated more with wasteful expenditure and consumption as opposed to prudent spending and production. The too familiar austerity measures pronounced through presidential edicts are simply circumvented or ignored outright by public officers. This trend is likely to continue unless real, radical measures are taken to reign in the rogue officers. Stern warnings and threats are fine, but not enough. President Uhuru Kenyatta has shown some commitment but he seems to be on his own. Most other people in government seem to be just playing to the gallery whilst paying lip service to the fight against corruption and extravagant spending. This wastage is not confined to the national government alone. It is equally prevalent in the counties where impunity seems to have acquired a new meaning. Numerous reports have shown this to be the case. To make any meaning on austerity measures and prudent public spending, heads must be made to roll and continue rolling. The Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and the Ethics Anti Corruption Commission, together with the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, are on the right path so far. They should be supported in the execution of their respective mandates. A clear message must go out that corrupt practices will not go unpunished. Misuse of public funds must be made an expensive affair for all those involved without regard to their stature in life. The Public Accounts Committee is doing its part. The committee report that has just been adopted by the National Assembly has achieved two objectives. First, it has formed a basis for enhanced allocation of revenue to the counties by Parliament. And second, it has made far-reaching recommendations for dealing with the wastage of public funds and corrupt practices by public officers. For starters, the DCI, EACC and the DPP should find the report useful in bringing to book those found culpable. The recommendations therein are clear, specific and actionable. The Public Accounts Committee chair and Ugunja MP spoke to the Star