Mungiki is regrouping in most counties in Central Kenya, regional coordinator Wilson Njega has said. He warned youths joining the criminal gang that they will be dealt with firmly in accordance with the law. Njega was speaking during a security baraza at Kabati in Kandara subcounty, Murang’a county, on Thursday. In Murang’a, Njega said members of the outlawed sect have started charging protection fees on those constructing buildings. They also demand a fee from transporters of building materials to allow them to ferry the products from quarries. They also demand a fee from matatu operators for them to access certain routes, failure to which they are turned back. “It is impossible for matatu owners to pay public service vehicles fees and insurance then a gang comes demanding for more money. It cannot be allowed,” Njega said. He said the law is clear that only the government has the mandate to impose taxes. He assured locals that organised gangs will be vanguished, to let the public continue with their businesses unperturbed. “I want this message to go to the youths that are going around asking for money, that they will be dealt with firmly. I will not be coming here every month to issue warnings. Next time we will be talking a different language of development,” he said. He asked youths to look for legitimate ways of making money and make use of numerous government kitties and subsidised tertiary education. He said it is shocking that the Mungiki gang is now infiltrating the circumcision rite, targeting initiates who are healing in their homes to induct them into their criminal doctrines, “We have arrested seven youths suspected of killing the 15 years old initiate in Gathaiti village and they are facing murder charges,” the regional coordinator said. Njega also appealed to parents to counsel their sons against joining the gangs and ensure they keenly watch the people who mentor them. Grave-diggers will also not be allowed to smoke bhang as has been the norm, he said. Njega said they are not above the law and they will be dealth with firmly. He pointed out that he was the lower central coordinator a decade ago when the Mungiki sect had terrorised Murang’a residents, causing people to relocate from their homes and close down their businesses.