On this day, every year, we celebrate the birthday of the Emperor of Japan, as a national holiday of my country. The history of the Imperial family of Japan can be traced back to more than 2,600 years ago. The present emperor is the 125th emperor, and the Imperial family of Japan is the oldest continuous hereditary monarchy in the world This is my third Emperor’s Birthday celebration since I arrived here as Ambassador of Japan. I would like to express my appreciation for the kindness Kenyans have shown me during these years. On such an important anniversary, it might be appropriate to look back on the three years I have spent here. Of all the events that I have participated in, the highlight was the Sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development – TICAD VI – which was held right after I took up my current position. Various players in African development gathered here in Nairobi from countries and institutions around the world to attend this eveant. There were 35 head of states and tens of ministers in attendance, and Nairobi was overflowing with people involved in African development. Fruitful discussions followed and the Nairobi Declaration — which outlined the mechanisms by which African development priorities were to be fulfilled — was the final outcome of such deliberations. The Nairobi Declaration was anchored on three pillars: Promoting structural economic transformation through economic diversification and industrialisation; promoting resilient health systems for quality of life; and promoting social stability for shared prosperity. I believe most Kenyans will immediately notice that these pillars are very much aligned with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda, which centres on manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security. That 2016 conference was the first TICAD conference in Africa and it was my great honour that I could lead this historical meeting as Japanese ambassador. The fact that Kenya hosted TICAD VI exemplified the maturity of the historically rich and deep relationship between out two countries. I would add that it also predicted new and greater progress for our partnership. Since then, I have put my full strength into the promotion of Japan-Kenya friendship. Development is not a charity, but it is a way to create jobs and to promote happiness and the opportunity for a decent life created by the hands of hardworking individuals. I believe that my African friends do not need to copy development or political models from Western countries or Asian countries, including Japan. I hope my African friends, the most dynamic people in the world, will create their countries in their own ways. Kenya is the biggest recipient of Japanese Overseas Development Assistance in sub-Sahara Africa, and we have implemented many projects together. I am proud that Japan could co-host the Sustainable Blue Economy Conference hosted by Kenya a week ago as the biggest donor.  A free and open Indo-Pacific region is the diplomatic vision that Japan aims to foster through the blue economy. Since I became Ambassador of Japan to Kenya, I have met with President Kenyatta on various occasions, starting from the credentialing ceremony, which officially started my tour of duty. Subsequently, there have been bilateral meetings on the occasions when we have had high-level visitors from Japan; and ceremonies for the launching of Japanese development assistance projects. On most of these occasions, I have enjoyed the honour and pleasure of talking with him directly in Kiswahili, which is my special skill. I would like to extend my sincere appreciation to all friends of Japan, who have supported my staff and myself at the embassy in the course of our work. The biggest goal of Japanese people in Kenyan development is to help in promoting the country’s goals and priorities that have been selected by Kenyans themselves. We, the Japanese, think it is our duty to dance with African rhythm and tone in all fields, including development and political collaboration. I have no doubt that in years to come this partnership between our two nations will lead to even greater achievements for the benefit of the Kenyan people.   Japan ambassador to Kenya