After seeing how women in Uganda who were unable to have children were stigmatised, Rasha Kelej decided to play her part in changing the story told about women with infertility. This is her story. Born in Egypt, Rasha Kelej says she was a simple girl who wanted to one day change the world and be successful. “I spent most of my life in the United Arab Emirates, between Dubai and Abu Dhabi. A pharmacist by training, I started working with Merck in 1996.”  Rasha is the CEO of Merck Foundation, the philanthropic arm of Merck Germany, the world’s oldest pharmaceutical and chemical company. Rasha started working on CSR programs in Africa, raising awareness and building capacity in fishers and cancer care. “I was in one of the rural villages in Uganda, speaking to a group of women complaining about their health and claiming the reason for their diabetes was infertility. At first I could not connect, I told them: ‘There is no scientific relationship between diabetes and infertility’”. The women linked their development of diabetes to the stress from the mistreatment of their families due to their inability to have children. This was the first time Rasha was hearing about discrimination and violence against women due to their infertility. “I then decided to propose the campaign to my company and called it ‘Merck more than a mother’, to empower those women through access to information, health, change of mindset and economic empowerment and to also build fertility care capacity in Africa.”  OPTIONS FOR COUPLES Merck has implemented programmes in Kenya since 2012, including ‘Merck more than a mother’ and ‘Merck cancer access programme’, where it developed the first oncology fellowship with University of Nairobi. So what are the options for couples struggling to have children? IVF has been debated in Kenya, with some still not willing to accept it. Rasha says, “I think IVF has started to be accepted in Kenya now. And the whole social perception of it has also started to change. The challenge is men. Men should start to speak openly about their infertility and know that it equally affects men and women. They should support their wives and share the treatment journey with them.” Adoption is also a practice that is yet to pick up in Kenya, with a number of women who do so choosing not to reveal so because of discrimination and ignorant comments from people who say an adoptive mother is ‘not the same as a birth mother’. Rasha says adoption is a good option. “Parenthood is about raising children. There are many children in the world who have no parents, and this is a solution,” she says. “I have to mention that infertility has a high incidence in Africa and developing countries. Almost one in every four couples is infertile. And more than half of these cases can be prevented, as they are due to untreated infectious diseases.” The ‘Merck more than a mother’ campaign started in 2015, first in Kenya then Uganda, and the rest of 35 countries in Africa and Asia. It aims to empower infertile women through access to information, education and health and by changing mindsets.