The police and military in Lamu are accused of harassing and frustrating environmental activists over the Lapsset project. Harassment was reported in a study released on Monday by Human Rights Watch (HRW) and the National Coalition of Human Rights Defenders (NCHRD). It says that at least 35 activists who have voiced opposition to upcoming mega infrastructure projects in Lamu have faced arbitrary arrests and beatings by police and soldiers. The 60-page report titled ‘They Just Want to Silence Us: Abuses Against Environmental Activists at Kenya’s Coast Region,’ explores activism around the Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor project-Lapsset and other projects. The report collected information over five years. In numerous cases, activists were arrested or detained in connection with their activism and released without charges, it says. In many other cases, security officers have broken up peaceful protests, restricted public meetings and prosecuted activists. In at least 15 instances, police accused activists of having links or being sympathetic to al Shabaab. “Anyone who speaks against the Lapsset or any other mega project is branded a terrorist or sympathiser. They will arrest and interrogate activists to intimidate them,” Is’haq Khatibi, the executive director of the Lamu Coastal Indigenous People’s Rights for Development said. HRW researcher Otsieno Namwaya called on authorities to address environmental and health concerns arising from projects like Lapsset instead of harassing activists. Activists also say the Sh200 billion Lamu coal plant will emit harmful particles and discharge effluents that can kill sea animals. They said Lapsset activities destroy mangrove forests and breeding grounds for fish and marine animals. Activists expressed concern over the rate at which the government is acquiring lands from residents without a clear compensation framework. Activists also cited water pollution from waste discharge and greenhouse gas emissions. NCHRD Kenya Executive Director Kamau Ngugi said, “Government’s response to Lamu activists is a test case for Kenya to uphold and protect rights in the context of large-scale projects.” 