Nixon Korir was considered an outsider who did not stand a chance of winning a political seat in an area that had been dominated by the opposition for decades. In fact, his opponents in last year’s race for the Lang’ata parliamentary seat referred to him as a project of Deputy President William Ruto, a man who was considered the greatest political enemy of ODM leader Raila Odinga. Raila had been Lang’ata MP — previously comprising Lang’ata and Kibera — for more than 20 years. The former Prime Minister first won the seat in 1992 on a Ford Kenya party ticket. He retained it in 1997, despite moving to NDP party. He won it again in 2002, this time, on an LDP party ticket, which was then a member of the Narc coalition. In 2007, Raila retained the seat through ODM party. In 2013, the 2010-promulgated Constitution barred him from contesting for the seat, as he was a presidential candidate. The seat was, however, won by Joash Olum, an ODM die-hard whom Raila endorsed during a rally in the constituency. Olum beat Korir, who was then making his first attempt at capturing the seat, by 7,654 votes. He vied on a URP ticket. Korir garnered 17,740 votes against Olum’s 25,394. Korir, popularly known as ‘Generali’ in the constituency, says it was the result of the March 4, 2013 General Election that gave him the urge and motivation to vie again in 2017. “Imagine getting about 20,000 votes and emerging second in your first attempt? It was a big motivation and I decided to keep in touch with the people of Lang’ata,” he says. GRASSROOTS STRATEGY The young lawyer said through his foundation, Nixon Korir Foundation, he touched the hearts and souls of the most of the 130,572 voters in the constituency. “Between 2013 and 2017, I managed to pay school fees for about 600 children in Lang’ata. I did this through personal donations and friends,” he says. “There are so many unregistered community schools in Lang’ata. If you go to Highrise ward, you will get about 20 unregistered schools. If you go to Mugumoini ward, you will get about seven or eight of them. I helped children in these schools. I paid their fees,” he says. He explains that he helped youth and women groups and developed personal relationships with them. He championed for integration and led a crusade against tribalism in the constituency. “I managed to develop a personal relationship beyond tribe and party. That is why if you look at the votes I got in 2017, I got about 10,000 more than President Uhuru Kenyatta. So it is not the party votes, it is beyond party. Very many people today say I am good because I am not tribal,” he said. Korir is a founding chairman of the former URP party, who at one time worked as DP Ruto’s personal assistant. He won the seat in the August 8, 2017 election with 41,086 votes, beating ODM’s Oscar Omoke who garnered 39,593 votes. Despite the ODM party having won all the four ward representative seats in the constituency, Korir says he has a good working relationship with all of them. Despite being close to Ruto, a seasoned politician who rose from being a member of YK92 (a youth group that campaigned for former President Daniel Moi’s re-election in 1992), Korir says the DP did not step in Lang’ata to campaign for him. DISORGANISED RIVALS Political analyst and University of Nairobi lecturer Professor Herman Manyora attributes Korir's victory to various factors, ranging from NASA’s disorganisation to Korir’s appealing nature. “The first reason is the disorganisation and sheer stupidity you would find in NASA of not agreeing on a candidate even if it was so obvious, when history would have told them that PNU suffered the same fate in 2007,” he says. In last year’s elections, each of the five constituent NASA parties fielded a candidate. They were Omoke (ODM), Judith Sijeny (Wiper), Kiprotich Tunoi (Chama Cha Mashinani), Daniel Odera (Ford Kenya) and William Kipkemboi (ANC). There were eight independent candidates, most of them disgruntled from ODM primaries. They were Musaari Kahiga, Daniel Akweli, Kavore Kariuki, Robert Kipkemboi, Douglas Kithyaka, Hillary Okumu, Amos Otula and John Thuo. Other candidates were Abdullahi Shariff (Kanu), Margery Kiragu (LPK) and Stephen Kipruto (CCU). In total, 17 people vied for the seat. Korir was the only Jubilee candidate after TNA and URP merged in the run-up to last year's polls. Manyora also argues that ODM was not exciting to the residents, following the dismal performance of immediate former MP Olum. “So many people were not very happy about ODM because of Olum. And this was being compared with the many years Raila was there. If you are being compared with Raila, then you can have a problem,” he says. Splitting of Lang’ata and Kibera could also have played in Korir’s favour. Most of the electorate and Raila’s support base came from Kibera. This left ODM vulnerable. Manyora says Korir, with his stage name, ‘Generali’, was appealing especially to the youth. “He was in the category of the Sonkos and Babu Owinos. He might not have had much money but was very appealing, and that really worked for him,” he argues. During the elections. Jubilee won 10 out of 17 MP seats in Nairobi. Besides Lang’ata, Jubilee also won Embakasi Central, Embakasi North, Starehe, Roysambu, Dagoretti South, Embakasi West, Kasarani and Kamukunji. ODM captured Makadara, Ruaraka, Embakasi East, Mathare, Westlands, Kibra and Dagoretti North. Wiper won Embakasi South seat but lost it in a petition filed by an ODM candidate. STRATEGIC PLAN Korir says many things were a mess when he took over, and he had to begin from basics. “When Baba was the MP, he was a national figure, so he was very busy most of the time. When Joash Olum came, unfortunately, I don't want to blame him, but very little was done in our schools. There were no chairs, cracks were all over and walls were not painted,” he says. National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF) committee is currently developing a five-year Strategic Plan running from 2018 to 2022. Korir says the plan will entail his dream for the constituency and outline the projects and programmes for the period. "This plan is organising my dream to community shared vision with specific objectives and projects that will drive us towards achieving our dream. Our vision therefore is guided by the Kenya 2010 constitution and vision 2030 whose overall goal is to give every Kenyan better living standard," he says. "We are therefore dedicated to partner with local and international organisations to support and strengthen NG-CDF to implement quality sustainable projects and maximize on community participation process anchored in 2010 constitution to generate community synergy and enhance support and sustainability of projects we envision to implement," he adds. But even as the Strategic Plan is being developed, the constituency NG-CDF Board has several built classrooms, dining halls and computers labs and equipped them over the past year. The MP says, the schools were in deplorable conditions. “If you go to Highrise, there was a school that was initiated by the former MP and had two classrooms. We have done two more and we want it registered. We are also going to get some money to do an admin block,” he says. The board is also planning to build a new secondary school in Madaraka, and already Sh10 million has been allocated. The MP, however, stated that his main agenda is to empower the youth, women and people with disability in his constituency. “I want to ensure that if possible, everyone has a skill that can enable him to get a job or initiate a business, so they can fend for themselves and their families. I promised when,” he says.