Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana has told off Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and asked his party leader to accept to be challenged in Ukambani politics. The second-time governor said nothing stops him from contesting the presidency in 2022 despite Kalonzo-allied MPs threatening to crush him politically. Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi led several legislators at the Kitui Goat Auction on Sunday in warning the Ukambani governors, Kibwana, Machakos’ Alfred Mutua and Kitui’s Charity Ngilu against ‘frustrating Kalonzo’s bid’. The legislators said the community was banking on Kalonzo, who was present at the auction, to ensure Ukambani was part of the government after 2022 election. But in a statement yesterday, Kibwana dismissed the narrative, further asking the propagators to read the Constitution which has declared Kenya a functioning democracy. He said the Kamba community “cannot be forced to support a leader” “Only in a monarchical system that there is no possibility for a designated leader to be opposed.” A fierce online campaign, following the county chief’s development record, was launched by netizens asking the governor not to retire from politics. And during a meeting with accountants at an Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya in Mombasa last Monday, Kibwana said that he wouldn’t mind going for the top seat ‘as long as he has support’. Read: Cut Kalonzo some slack, Wiper MPs tell jittery Muthama, Kibwana on envoy job Makueni, Kitui and Machakos governors have revived the economic bloc to champion for the development of Ukambani region. However, leaders from the region, specifically Kalonzo’s Kitui backyard are unhappy with the move. The feeling is that the three are out to checkmate the former vice president’s hold of the region’s support. But Kibwana said yesterday that the Kamba community has, for no good reason, been outside the government for 10 years and also with no senior persons to negotiate for it.. “It is unfair for our legislators from Kitui to use abusive language against leaders from the other two counties and indeed any other regional leader,” he said. So far, Deputy President William Ruto, Kalonzo, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula have directly – or indirectly, thrown their hat in the ring in the bid to succeed Uhuru. Also Read: Kalonzo’s closest allies are his greatest enemies — Kibwana Click here for the latest political news