Wiper party chairman Kivutha Kibwana has said that his recent criticism of the party leader was not intended to divide the Kamba community. “Not seeing things the same way with another leader does not necessarily mean that you are fighting that leader. “I am not dividing Kambas and I can’t wish such a thing. However, I will not be forced to support things that I feel are not right,” Kibwana, who is also the Makueni governor, said. He sharply criticised Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for “begging” to be President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ‘mtu wa mkno’ (errand boy) during the burial of his father a few weeks ago. Kibwana said his comments were an expression of his true feelings on certain party issues. Kalonzo has since been appointed special envoy to South Sudan. Kibwana said his opposition to how the party was handling some issues did not mean he was politically fighting the Wiper leader. Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr and Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo have dared Kibwana to resign as Wiper chairman instead of antagonising its leadership. The governor was addressing this year’s Jamhuri day celebrations at Nziu Primary School on Wednesday. He said since his youth he has always spoken his mind and he was not going to change in old age. “Most of you know me from my youth and more so during the Moi regime. If I felt something was not right, I would say it even if it meant risking death. Now at 64, no one should expect me to change. When things are not right, I will always say so because that’s who I am and I can’t change,”Kibwana said. The governor said he would only support what was intended to develop the region and was not bothered by critics. “I have heard some leaders like Kitui senator Enock Wambua and Mwingi MP Gideon Mulyungi attack me but what they need to know is that I will not be forced to support things I feel are not right. What should be important to all of us is how we will ensure economic independence of our people.” He said the three Ukambani governors of Makueni, Kitui and Machakos have committed themselves to strengthening the South Eastern Kenya Economic Block and that is what leaders should support.