Harambee Stars have officially qualified for next year’s Africa Cup of Nations after the Confederation of African Football (CAF) officially disqualified Sierra Leone from the qualifiers. An extra ordinary executive committee meeting in Accra, Ghana on Friday made the decision with Sierra Leone yet to drag itself off their ban by Fifa over government interference. “The Caf executive committee at its meeting on Friday, November 30, 2018 in Accra decided on the case of Sierra Leone in the 2019 Total Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Sierra Leone are disqualified from the qualifiers and all their matches are annulled,” Caf said in a statement yesterday. With one round of qualification matches left, the decision leave Kenya top of Group ‘F’ with seven points, one ahead of second placed Ghana and six ahead of Ethiopia. Stars and Ghana are both through and their meeting in March next year will be a mere formality to decide, who finishes first or second. Stars last played in the Africa Cup Of Nations in 2004 in Tunisia and their participation at next year’s event ends a 15-year wait at the high table of African football. Caf are yet to decide on the host of the event after stripping off Cameroon the hosting rights over the weekend. Morocco and South Africa are the front runners to host the showpiece event. Deputy President William Ruto promised to award the team Sh50 million if the qualify for the event. Stars drew 0-0 draw with Ethiopia in Bahir Dar Stadium in Addis Ababa and registered a 3-0 win over Ethiopia at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in the return leg. They upset favourites Ghana 1-0 at the same venue and are expected to travel to Ghana in match for a formality battle. Elsewhere, Raja Casablanca saw off an attempted comeback by hosts AS Vita Club of the Democratic Republic of Congo to win the African Confederation Cup on Sunday, losing the second leg of the final 3-1 but triumphing 4-3 on aggregate. Vita came back with three goals after Raja had gone 4-0 up on aggregate but ran out of time in front of some 80,000 spectators on a rainy night in the Congo capital. The home side scored twice in the space of two minutes in the second half to suddenly awaken their slim hopes of a remarkable comeback as first Mukoto Bafezadio and then Fabrice Ngoma netted in the 72nd and 74th minutes. But the Moroccan club held their nerve to see out the remaining 15 minutes. Mahmoud Benhalib might have added to his 12 goals in this year’s competition and put the issue beyond doubt after five minutes but missed a sitter from close range before team mate Abdelilah Hafidi made it 4-0 on aggregate in the 21st minute. Vita equalised on the stroke of halftime with a thunderous long-range free kick from Jean-Marc Makusu. Raja, coached by former Real Betis manager Juan Carlos Garrido, had won convincingly a week ago in Casablanca in the first leg with two goals from Soufiane Rahimi and a penalty from Benhalib. The Confederation Cup is Africa’s second annual club competition, open to national cup winners as well as third-place league finishers from those countries which have an added berth.