How do you explain meeting a very attractive man, who as you got to know better, you found to be average? Or a person who was not that good looking but somehow became more attractive to you over time because of their personality? That’s how I feel about Rob. The hotness has faded. He is average. Ugly even. All I remember when I think of him is vermin. Harsh but true. His personality is black and the beauty fades. Kind of like Satan I guess. In all the pictures, he is depicted as grotesque, with horns, a pitchfork and an evil smirk. Yet the bible is clear that he is the most beautiful of God’s creations. A bright morning star, he had the seal of perfection. He was given the most wisdom and was the most aesthetically pleasing. In Ezekiel 28:12-18 you will find God describing him:  “Thus says the Lord GOD, You had the seal of perfection, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God; every precious stone was your covering: The ruby, the topaz, and the diamond; the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper; the lapis lazuli, the turquoise, and the emerald; and the gold, the workmanship of your settings and sockets, was in you. On the day that you were created they were prepared. You were the anointed cherub who covers, and I placed you there. You were on the holy mountain of God; you walked in the midst of the stones of fire. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created. Until unrighteousness was found in you.”  After he was cast from heaven – Something about growing horns (perhaps not literally) and feeling himself a bit too much - his name changed from Lucifer (morning star) to Satan which means adversary. I’m not clear whether his looks changed alongside that or because of his personality we look upon him differently. Either way, looks are not what maketh the man. Because of his deeds, the most beautiful thing ever created is seen as ugly. So maybe we need to invest less on the outward and more of what is within. In that spirit, my next man doesn’t need to be a model. All I want for Christmas is a good shag from a good man. Where are you good people? With hearts like cherubs? Heck, I’m even happy to try out Santa Claus, if he’s willing. Why not? I told you once that potbellied men don’t put me off. Besides, I have had my fill of six-packs with Rob. What’s the point of having a chiseled man who lives like a hobo? If that’s the trade off when it comes to a guy, let me take the potbellied one. Santa is perfect for a one-night stand. He is known and loved all over the world so in terms of references, he has the best. He only comes around once a year and is gone quickly enough. He spreads a lot of joy to the world, so how about spreading the best kind? Someone once wrote that the reason he’s so damn jolly is because he knows where all the bad girls live. Well, dust off my address from the ol’ Rolodex, Santa. I’m waiting. But seriously though, what’s not to like about Santa Claus? He brings presents, lots of them. Any man who does that is half way there.  “What do you want for Christmas, little girl?” he will ask as you sit on his lap. Anything, Santa? I can have anything I want? Well, this… I like. Now tell me the truth, won’t this make you want to be his ho, ho, ho?      