Boda boda operators in Likoni on Thursday night rounded up six youths and killed one in Senti Kumi on suspicion they were criminals. The youth, 18, died at the Coast Provincial General Hospital. He succumbed to deep head cuts upon arrival, hospital deputy chief administrator Mary Ochola said. Other youths suffered injuries in the head, back and hands. “They were brought here at 5am by police. All were young men,” Ochola said. The youths had gone to a party in Likoni when they were attacked by operators armed with crude weapons. All six were from Kongowea. Residents said they were criminals who have been terrorising them. Likoni is an insecurity hotspot. Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma said the situation is getting out of hand. “We strongly advise that community policing be enhanced to avoid such incidents. Mob justice should be discouraged and parents be vigilant,” he said. Likoni police boss Benjamin Rotich said the deceased and the other five were hardcore criminals from Kisauni. “They had sought refuge in Likoni after police mounted operations in Kisauni,” he said on the phone. Rotich said they wanted to rob a Likoni passerby who raised the alarm. “That is when they were attacked,” the police boss said. The mother of one of the victims – a Standard 8 pupil – said her child is not a criminal. He is 14 years old. “I can say with the highest level of certainty that my child is not a gangster,” she said at the hospital. Read: Police ban boda boda rides in Coast region after 8pm The aunt of the slain suspect said, “His mother warned him not to go to the party but he wouldn’t listen. But that did not warrant such beating. He had no weapon on him.” Early this month, it was reported that at least 15 people had been killed by youth gangs in Kisauni and Nyali constituencies in one month. The attackers reportedly don police uniforms and often ride on brand new motorcycles. They often attack in Kisauni and parts of Nyali. The Star could not independently verify the claims. Some parts of Kisauni and Nyali have become no-go zones. They include Kadzandani, Vikwatani, Mafisini, Soweto Junda, Mishomoroni and Kwa Bulo, where the criminals have been operating day and night. Police put up three posts in Kadzandani, Kadzonzo and Konkodia, where most of the killings have been reported. Also Read: Likoni boda boda operators kill suspected member of Wakali kwanza gang