Igembe  boda  boda operators have been asked to end their protests against the crackdown against road users who flout  the Michuki rules. The call came from Tigania East MP Gichunge Kabeabea who said it was shameful and their  MP had no  mandate to interfere with police officers doing their duties. He said it was illegal for Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi to come to his constituency and order police officers manning a roadblock to go away. Mwirigi, Kenya’s  youngest MP, accused the officers of harassment and receiving bribes from motorcyclists. He was arrested. On November 27, the MP was charged with aiding a prisoner to escape and obstructing a police officer from executing his duties. The court heard that the MP aided the driver of a car, registration number KCM 566H, to escape  the arrest for driving the vehicle with worn out tyres. Mwirigi was also charged with obstructing Mohamed Bemo, a police officer, from executing his duties contrary to Section 103(a) of the National Police Service Act, 2011. The lawmaker was further accused of throwing a police barrier at a roadblock mounted on the Mikinduri-Maua road. He denied the charges. The court banned the MP from setting foot in Meru county for 14 days. Mwirigi was released on a Sh500,000 bail. The case will be heard on February 25, 2019. Kabeabea said the MP could instead bring a motion  inParliament to suspend or abolish the rules. He promised to pay for the training of all constituency riders and also for their driving licences. “I won’t condone or lead demonstrations but I will ensure riders are issued with licences. I ask all riders to register in my office. There is no need of destroying or removing police roadblocks. It will lead to more insecurity, “ Kabeabea said. The MP urged the riders to comply with the rules for their safety and that of their clients. He also asked them to get cover for accidents. His sentiments were echoed by area deputy county commissioner Patrick Muli, who said Mwirigi was arrested and charged with interfering with the work of police officers. “He set a bad precedent to remove a roadblock. Let us be given room to perform our duties. I am grateful to MP Gichunge Kabeabea because he never interferes with anybody’s duties,” Muli said.