ODM will field its leader Raila Odinga for President in 2022, a group of legislators have said. They are EALA MP Oburu Oginga, Senator Moses Kajwang, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino, Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja), Adipo Okuome (Karachuonyo), James Nyikal (Seme), Tom Kajwang’ (Ruaraka) and Anthony Oluoch (Mathare). Kaluma said, “We know ODM will not go to the 2022 election without a candidate and that should be Raila. I say here that we cannot go for that election without Raila as the presidential candidate." He said Raila had earlier warned MPs against discussing the 2022 presidential race, but as his supporters they are free to request him to contest again. The legislators on Wednesday during the Ndhiwa Sports and Cultural Festival at Pala Primary School. Raila was the chief guest. Oburu and Owino said Raila commands support across Kenya, not just in Nyanza region. “Raila still has a lot of support across the country because of his good ideas of developing this country. He is not supported because of his tribe,” Oburu said. The EALA MP said no one should tell Raila not to run for President on the grounds he is 'old'. He said age cannnot deter Raila from winning the presidency and leading Kenya effectively. “Some people say that Raila is old. This is untrue because I am still young yet Raila is my follower,” Oburu said. Owino said Raila will not be the sole decision maker on who should run on the ODM ticket. “ODM will make a decision on who will contest the presidency. Raila will not make it alone,” he said. Wanga urged ODM supporters not to grow weary as the party pursues the presidency. “Let our supporters not get tired. We will achieve our key objective ensuring Raila wins the presidency,” he said. Raila, however, downplayed the succession talks and instead promised Kenyans that all the points in their Building Bridges Initiative will be implemented. He said BBI will help cushion the country from discrimination, corruption, inequitable distribution of public resources and other vices which jeopardise the economy. “We are working together with President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure all the agenda in the Building Bridges Initiative are implemented,” Raila said. He said their intention is to ensure peace prevails for economic growth. Read: Building Bridges team briefs Uhuru, Raila at State House Click here for the latest political news 