The slain priest John Muhia of Kinoo parish was laid to rest yesterday in an emotional send off. Muhia was killed last Monday by four gangsters on motorcycles. According to witnesses, the gunmen blocked the St Peter Kino parish priest and shot through the windscreen before snatching the Sunday offering he was taking to the bank. He was rushed to Kikuyu Hospital but was pronounced dead on arrival. Postmortem results showed he had been shot through the heart. The requiem mass for Fr Muhia was held at St Mary’s school Msongari and presided over by the head of the Catholic church in Kenya John Cardinal Njue. Muhia’s remains were interred at the St Austin cemetery. The Nairobi archdiocese condemned the killing as  a heinous and cowardly act. They said security agencies should move with speed and address the rampant increase in killings in the country. The priests expressed concern that the country is witnessing increased cases of crime yet the offenders are rarely charged. They said the issue of security and sanctity of life should be upheld with utmost reverence. “Muhia’s death was unwarranted. We expect the security arm of the government to act swiftly and apprehend the culprits. We believe that justice will be seen to be done to reassure the priestly fraternity and the Kenyan citizens at large. Read: Murdered Kinoo priest complained of harassment - cleric Fr Michael Karanja, who spoke to the Star at the funeral service, said investigations and search for the criminals had been taken over by the Interior ministry and as the church they hoped the culprits will be brought to book. “We are not happy because we have been affected. It takes more than 10 years to produce one priest, so losing just one is like losing the entire population. It is sad that he died in his line of duty. Once you kill the shepherd, the flock will scatter,” Karanja said. The priest’s brother, Paul Njoroge, said they leave everything to God because what is hidden under the sun will surely be revealed. “He was a humble man and acted like our guide. He was not just a helper financially but he would give us advice where necessary,” his brother said. Muhia was born on December 24, 1962 at Kigaa village, Kiganjo sub-location, Gatundu South in Kiambu county. He was the first born in a family of seven; three boys and four girls. He was ordained as priest on December 30, 1994. Until his death he had served at  St Francis Xavier Parklands, St Joseph Loreto in Limuru, St Theresa parish Eastleigh and Holy Family parish Githunguri among others. More: Limuru vet shot dead at doorstep Click here for
the latest political news