The more things change, the more they remain the same, as far as volleyball is concerned in Kenya. That the national women’s volleyball team recorded their first-ever win at the World Championship in Japan against Kazakhastan is no mean achievement. But its failure to sparkle at the championship leaves a lot to be desired, after they could only play second fiddle to West Africa’s Cameroon last year during the World Championship qualifier. But we shouldn’t expect different results if we keep doing the same things. Our coaching has stalled and we have few options to choose from when it comes to national team assignments. The Kenya Volleyball Federation seems to have mastered the art of recycling coaches, but again, where are the options to choose from? Maybe the federation should look elsewhere and give a chance to upcoming tacticians, and who knows? With reports rife that Kenya might have an FIVB-attached tactician next year, volleyball fans have something to look forward to. Other than that, it’s high time coaches renewed their coaching courses, as the sport itself is changing with time. KVF technical director David Lungaho said the sport is evolving ,and so should the coaches evolve with their coaching materials. He said nowadays, the sport is computerised, and statistics of players on serve, block and spike are generated. In that case, you have the curve of how the player is progressing, but few clubs are embracing the move. NATIONAL, CLUB REVIEWS As far as the national team playing unit is concerned, while most of the positions’ status quo remained, the centre and left attacking department experienced notable changes in Kenya Prisons duet of Lorraine Chebet and Sharon Chepchumba, whose presence was felt. Experienced player Evelyne Makuto was overlooked for Chepchumba, while Chebet fit in well alongside Triza Atuka, Edith Wisa and Christine Psiwa for former national team captain Brackcidise Agala, who was away on maternity leave during the World Championship. Although the men’s national team star looks bright, it’s unfortunate they were dormant this year. And with upcoming and promising players attached to various clubs, we should get a seat at the high table in coming years. At club level, champions General Service Unit men’s, who had settled for fifth position during the club championship, retained the KVF league title ahead of their local nemesis Kenya Prisons. And with that, GSU will represent the country at next year’s Club Championship in Egypt. Team manager Nicholas Kimeli said they will be aiming to go a step further. Kenya Defence Forces, who boast of promising players, and who made a return to the playoffs this season, shocked former champions Kenya Prisons 3-2 in the playoffs. Many have tipped the Forces to be a force to reckon with. Regulars Kenya Ports Authority, who have religiously finished third, were forced to settle for fourth position, and the results were expected, as the coastal side never trains together as a team. In the ladies category, Kenya Prisons finally reclaimed the title that had remained elusive since 2014. The wardresses saw off perennial rivals Kenya Pipeline, the stubborn Kenya Commercial Bank and Bungoma county. SEASON OF CHANGE The shock of the playoffs was when KCB defeated Pipeline to book a slot to next year’s club championship. To many the result was expected, as prior to the playoffs, seven of Pipeline players and coach Japheth Munala were linked to a move to KCB. The oilers were prone to be destablised. And true to the expectations of many, Pipeline were a pale shadow of themselves. The absence of teams captain Atuka, who was nursing a stomach surgery, didn’t help either. And now that the seven players (Noel Murambi, Violet Makuto, Leonida Kasaya, Truphena Samoei, Veronica Tanui, Jemimah Siangu and Christine Njambi) and coach Munala are at the bankers, the women’s league is expected to be more competitive. In previous seasons, the competition has been between Kenya Prisons and Pipeline. It remains to be seen how the now revamped KCB will stand to be counted. The KVF national elections were held early this year. Only two major changes were witnessed. Out went Martin Makokha, first vice chairman, and Kipkemei Sirma, second vice chairman. And in came Charles Nyaberi and David Kilundo. Chairman Waithaka Kioni retained the seat. It however remains to be seen if the current office will push for more sponsorship, after sealing a Sh42 million deal with National Oil of Kenya for the national women’s team.