An obscenity-packed telephone conversation between Nairobi governor Mike Sonko and a city tycoon he links to the demolitions in Kayole has leaked online. A recording of the eight-minutes long conversation captures a furious Governor Sonko hurling abuses and threatening the tycoon whom he accuses of using fake documents to claim ownership of a 20-acre parcel in Kayole. The phone call begins with Sonko identifying himself to the other person on the line and he then proceeds to politely ask him why he never approached his office for possible compensation on the land dispute. Earlier, the governor had issued an executive order halting the demolition of buildings in the country during the festive season. The tycoon defended himself by stating that the matter had been dragging in court for 10 years as he tried to find a solution with no success. Tempers quickly flare and Sonko starts hurling insults at the man. He at some point dares the man to take him to court. Efforts to get the tycoon’s comment were unsuccessful. His phone was switched off. Read: Sonko halts demolition of buildings after talks with Uhuru The following are the excerpts of that conversation. Governor Sonko (A) How are you Mark? My name is governor Sonko. Mark Maina (B) My brother? Sonko: Eh. B: Habari yako? A: mzuri sana B: Good to hear you A: Eh mimi niko. Sasa hii mambo ya Kayole, si ungekuja uni-consult kwanza niongee na hii watu niongee na president tuone kama tungekulipa badala ya kupiga raia my brother. B: Unajua ndugu yangu, hiyo maneno tumejaribu miaka kumi kushughulika na hawa watu. A: Hapana lakini, wewe since I became the governor you have not come to my office to tell me you have a problem. Wewe kazi yako ni kuhongana na polisi, unafi kiri... wewe una madharau Maina. It is no fair to work like this. B: Ati niko na madharau? A: Mbaya sana, kama ulifanya ten years kutoka nikiwa sworn in as governor of Nairobi umekuja tukae chini na wewe tusaidiane? B: Noo, lakini my brother you know you cannot say that because.. A: I have already confirmed that the title is fake. Kwanza you have used a fake title to mislead court of law. B: I thought you are calling me to say ‘Hello’. Now you are telling me some... A: Wewe ni kumbafu na wacha nikuambie kwanza umeiba choo hapo ya county. Hiyo choo nitaipiga leo. Kwanza you are very useless na nitakuonesha na hiyo pesa yako, jinga wewe! Shenzi! Who do you think you are? Wewe kwenda! Who do you think you are? Mwizi wewe wa kawaida kwenda kabisa! Umeiba mpaka choo ya county, kama ulihongana Kidero, mimi sikulangi pesa and I will put you in with your money, with your millions, useless person. B: Bwana Governor... A: Wewe kwenda! Don’t call me governor. Unaenda unapiga watu Nairobi kama ulijua I’m the governor of Nairobi ungekuja kwa ofisi tutafute njia ya ku-compensate badala ya kupiga watu Christmas. Useless, shenzi wewe! Shenzi, Kumbafu! B: What are you benefiting from [by] abusing somebody like that? A: You are a thief .. you are a.. No! It is painful! Huwezipiga wananchi eti because you are a billionaire and you are a thief. Wewe peleka mimi kortini ndio ujue mimi ni nani. Shenzi wewe! And I’m going to deal with you! Kwanza that county toilet today we are demolishing it unai-convert to your store, fire station, you have grabbed whom do you think you are? Unafi kiri wewe ni nani wewe? Wewe ni nani wewe? Shenzi wewe! Shenzi! Mimi si wale watu unahongahonga. Record me, shenzi! Record! Wewe ni nani unapiga wananchi? Wewe ni nani? Si ungekuja kwangu ama uende kwa president? Na unatumia mpaka fake title. Record me, mwizi! Shenzi! Let’s meet in court. Who do you think you are? Takataka wewe, ghasia! Kuja hapa Kayole saa hii uone kama wewe ni mwanaume. Kuja hapa Kayole saa hii uone kama wewe ni mwanaume. Shenzi wewe! Na hiyo public toilet ya county, you.. surrender it today. I’m giving you two hours. And the fire station part you have encroached nitaangusha hii hoteli yako wewe, uskie vile hawa maskini wameskia. Record upeleke hata kwa PPO, shenzi! I am a fan of cases, useless person. Also read: Government indefinitely suspends demolition of properties Click here for
the latest political news