Title: MihTy Artistes: Ty Dolla $ign & Jeremih Genre: R&B/ Soul Release Date: October 26  Both Jeremih and Ty Dolla $ign have been in the music scene for a significant duration. They've had quite a successful run with collaborative efforts compared to their own projects, and maybe that's where their strengths lie. Together they teamed up to release their first collaborative project that was first hinted at in 2017. The full-length LP, christened 'MihTy', is technically impressive. The album derives its name from both artistes’ names. ‘MihTy’ is actually a superbly refined and carefully curated album meant to showcase the versatility of two dexterous crooners. They exhibit and develop a chemistry and brotherhood few others can lay claim to. It's the remarkable fusion of Ty's low tone and Jeremih's high tone that brings out the fascinating quality of an album that is meant for the "between the sheets" experience. The 11-track album kicks off with sex-fuelled tracks like "The Light" and "Goin' Thru Some Thangz". French Montana offers a verse on the third track and most essential, "FYT". The most impressive thing about this joint effort is that we see both artistes working hard to exceed their limitations. It is as if with every instance they are trying to outdo each other, but still ensure they deliver a project worth listening to. They keep their sound relevant to the time with trap-drum inflected tunes like "New Level," "Take Your Time" and "These Days." The duo then recruits Chris Brown and Wiz Khalifa for yet another sensual tune, "Surrounded." The duo keeps the heat going on "Lie 2 Me" and "Ride It", then closes out the project with "Imitate". "MihTy" establishes dreamy, idealised sonic beds for lounging, listening and loving. From the beginning, Ty and Jeremih are all-in and it doesn't matter whether they are alone, in their element, or a guest has been added. They somehow manage to do it better than they've done in a long time. So are you looking for the perfect compilation of 2018 to soak up the sheets and ride to? MihTy was certainly created for you.  Star rating: 3.5 out of 5