Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has warned the Senate to stick to its mandate of oversight counties and not the national government. Wandayi regretted the move by the Senate instructing the auditor general to conduct a special audit for the medical equipment scheme. Addressing journalists in Gem on Saturday, Wandayi clarified on how the equipment was procured by the ministry of health insisting that the issue falls squarely to the National Assembly. He said the money that procured medical equipment for counties never went to counties for the Senate to initiate any inquiries about the scheme unless they want to target a wrong culprit. "The Senate has no mandate to oversight the national government under article 96 the Senate mandate is limited to only oversight the county governments," Wandayi said. Wandayi also asked the auditor general not to accept such directives insisting that it's not the right channel to be used by the Senate. "The auditor general can only respond to directions of the special audit to a national ministry from the Public Account Committee," Wandayi said. The MP said an attempt by the Senate through an amorphous committee purporting to direct the auditor general to conduct a special audit on the medical equipment scheme is unconstitutional. He said when it comes to the matters of oversight the government that is purely the mandate of the national assembly. He said the Senate will create confusion for the perpetrators to go scot free in case anyone goes to court to challenge there move. "It's clear that the procurement of the medical equipment to the counties was done by the National government and the Senate should leave the oversight duty to the PAC committee," He said the issue surrounding the medical scheme domicile on the national assembly and must be executed by the Parliament's Public Accounts Committee. Wandayi reminded the Senate to always consult the PAC committee on how far they have reached with the matter instead of jumping into their responsibility. The MP said the Senate has a lot to do in terms of oversight the counties to tame the rampant cases of misappropriation of funds. "There is no point for the Senate to encroach the National assembly responsibility in the fight against corruption when they have a lot to do in the counties," he added.   