Gor Mahia and Kariobangi Sharks have a date with destiny when they pursue to sail to the next round of their respective continental assignments in today’s return leg matches. In-form Sharks, who are in the Confederations Cup, carry a huge five-goal advantage to Djibouti against Solar Arta 7 while Gor will put their slim 1-0 advantage on the line against Malawi’s Nyasa Big Bullets in the Champions League. Sharks curtain raised their return leg match with a 1-0 win over K’Ogalo in the Super Cup over the weekend and will look to carry the same form to the humid Djibouti and progress to the next round where their prowess will be severely tested by Ghanaian football powerhouse Asante Kotoko. After the first leg staged at Moi Stadium, Kasarani last week, Arta’s head coach Mussa Mawa hinted that the match was likely not be played on a natural surface and the weather conditions would be an added advantage for them. “The return leg will be a different game, different conditions, different weather, and even the pitch. We do not have grass there.” However, Sharks coach William Muluya while reacting on the nature of the playing surface and conditions, stated that his charges would focus on a positive performance. “This contest is far from over. We had our home advantage and they will have the same in the return leg which I understand is different from what we are used to. I am more interested with the performance of the team which I believe should it turn good then we will get a positive result,” he added. Sharks welcome back their skipper Erick Juma to the squad after he missed the Nairobi tie while nursing a toe injury. Away in Blantyre, K’ogalo who travelled with Turkish coach Hassan Oktay, will heavily rely on his tact to avoid leaking more than two goals which their opponents require to overturn the result. The 17-time Kenyan champions who did not travel with several of their first choice starters, will look up to the duo of Erisa Ssekisambu and Francis Mustafa for goals while skipper Harun Shakava is expected to marshal his defence line and avoid leaking goals. Nyasa’s head coach Kalisto Pasuwa on the other hand will count on home comfort and his deadly talisman Msowoya Chiukepo for goals to successfully down Gor. Should Gor advance to the second round, they will meet the winner between Cameroonian UMS De Loum and Nigeria’s Lobi Stars.