Garissa governor Ali Korane has said the effects of climate change are posing a risk to the survival of residents. He said communities in Garissa and other parts of northern Kenya rely on livestock for survival but the animals are fast disappearing. The governor (pictured) spoke in Garissa town at a workshop called to address issues of youth radicalisation. Korane said nearly 80 per cent of the residents live below the poverty line and this is a social time bomb. The workshop was a joint venture between the county government, the national government, civil society groups and Garissa University. He said his administration will continue working together with the Office of the President, civil society groups and Garissa University to equip them with necessary skills to do business or secure employment. “The youth are faced with a serious crisis due to illiteracy, loss of livelihoods, unemployment and lack of progress,” Korane said. He said Garissa and other neighbouring areas face a history of serious marginalisation and this situation had created space for radicalisation. The governor who recently visited Ethiopia on a similar mission said he will also engage the Somali community in Europe. The governor rejected proposals by some groups for the adoption of Madrassa education by the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD). Instead, the governor suggested that Madrassa be integrated in formal education to enable young Muslims learn from primary schools. The county government in September allocated Sh450 million towards skills training , entrepreneurship and home industries to empower youth and women. Deputy governor Abdi Dagane said the government is taking a bolder step to empower youth by helping them acquire necessary technical and practical skills. Some Sh50mn has been set aside to have a vocational training centre. and equip the existing centers in Garissa , Dadaab and Bura,’’ Dagane said. He spoke during the official launch of the Garissa County Youth Employment Compact. The USAID-led programme is aimed at empowering vulnerable youths by training them to acquire skills for self employment. It brings together stakeholders to advance development agenda in the county.