Nairobi has been selected as the first county to have low-cost houses as part of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy projects. During the Jamhuri Day celebrations last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the pilot project would be launched soon. “I hope to launch the first of the many housing developments in a week’s time from now,” President Kenyatta said. During an Iftar celebration held at City Hall in June this year, DP William Ruto said the national government was focusing on the informal settlements occupied by millions of residents. The county government had earlier this year identified estates to benefit from the housing project, including Pangani, Ngong Road Phase One and Two, Old and New Ngara and Tsuma. Others were Shauri Moyo, Mbotela, Kariokor, Maringo, Pumwani, Kaloleni, Bahati, Ofafa Jericho and Landhes Road estates. The groundbreaking for Phase One, the pilot project for Pangani, was scheduled for May but was postponed because logistics were not completed. Land executive Charles Kerich said the Sh300 million project would consist of 1,148 units. The developers will be given a 70:30 share. The county had said it will only provide land and the firms will own 30 per cent of the property they construct so they can recoup their investment and make a profit. “Seventy per cent of the project must be low-cost housing and the developers are under instructions to build structures valued between Sh1 million and Sh3 million. Then the 30 per cent would be slightly higher to give the investors a chance to sell at market rate,” Kerich said. RE-NEGOTIATE WITH DEVELOPERS As the county prepared to launch its pilot project in August, it suffered several hold-ups making the launch impossible. The county realised the companies had already signed their Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) prior to the idea of affordable housing. The timing led to a setback in the launch as the company’s projects did not match. Kerich said the affordable houses were to cost around Sh3 million, slightly more or less. “Although they signed contracts, we called them one at a time to re-negotiate and let them know we need cheaper housing units which meant they had to go back and redesign the projects,” he explained. In August, Pangani residents clashed with the county saying they were left out in decision-making, whereas the county wanted the residents to co-operate or risk termination of their tenancy. Some of the residents wanted the developers to build the new houses as they continued living in the old houses, which was rejected as impossible. The county decided on more time for public participation until residents all came on board with the terms. “We (county) had hoped to do the groundbreaking this year but we have tried to be very gentle with the tenants” Kerich said. He said the county wanted the project to been successful, not controversial. “As you know, there are people in Nairobi who will not hesitate to turn very noble project into a scandal which does not exist,” Kerich said LOCATION ON FLIGHT PATHS Later in October, it was discovered that four of the seven estates in the urban and housing project are located on the flight paths of Moi Airbase and the Wilson Airport. The estates include Pangani, Nara, Jevanjee and Bachelors. Initially the county wanted to construct 30-storey buildings to create affordable housing. However it might be forced to reduce the height to 14 storeys in those estates on the flight paths. The groundbreaking was once again delayed for the county to ask the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority and the Ministries of Defence and Transport for a clear mapping of flight paths in Nairobi. LEGAL WRANGLES Ngong Road Phase One and Two were also meant to have already been kicked off but according to the county, were delayed by legal wrangles. There has been disputes between two companies, Ngong Road estate with Ederman and Lordship Africa, contesting to build the entire estate. “Ngong Road has a dispute and the case is in court, the two companies are wrangling as one was given phase One and the other Phase Two. Because the matter is in court we have to wait for the outcome,” Kerich said. Unlike in Pangani, there are no people to relocate as the ground lies on police training grounds.Ngong Road Phase Two is to have at least 4,000 units and is said to be the tallest of all the projects. The small houses will cost around Sh5 million. The low-cost houses will, however, remain a dream for Nairobi residents until the project has its groundbreaking.