Curtains fell on the Blue Economy conference on Wednesday, and leaders can now get back to their local accent. Nairobi city — or cirry, as Governor Mike Sonko would call it — was privileged to host the first ever global meeting on Sustainable Blue Economy. Other than conference tourism, and the business it brought, a lot of information was shared. As Foreign Affairs PS indicated, the SBEC was nearly 10 conferences in one. Some side events were hosted at the University of Nairobi. The PS said they included a historic, ‘Leadership Commitments” segment; a ‘Business and Private Sector forum;” a Governors and Mayors convention; and a star-studded, ‘Science and Research’ symposium at UoN. There were also thematic sessions devoted to deliberations on the key productivity and sustainability pillars of the Blue economy. There was also a Civil Society Forum, an International Diaspora side event as well as a youth side event. From observation,  I noticed there was a lot of interest from many countries, especially Europe, in this meet.  Means there is a lot to draw from it. At the Ministerial session, Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma emphasised the need to follow up on the discussions tabled in the conference. President Uhuru Kenyatta, at the end of the conference, expressed commitment to protect water resources to help them regenerate, and to ensure they remain viable for the present and future generations. “We have agreed to strengthen political leadership & international cooperation & have committed to work collaboratively on data analysis, information & intelligence sharing to curb the Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported threat and other threats to our marine resources,” President Kenyatta said. But as Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o said, moving forward, there is need to emphasize on the need of real time action plans by all stakeholders to achieve Sustainable Blue Economy agenda. When I spoke to Ps Kamau ahead of this conference, he said the blue economy and the potential that is therein have been neglected in the past. “The vast majority, if not all, of the developed economies have grown to be the superpowers they are because of the blue economy. Creating the sea economy for themselves because the sea means markets, trade and wealth — fish, oil, gas and various minerals in the sea, which are the engines in making wealth in any economy,” he said. He noted that the Kenyan government has now realised this is a huge potential. That if we maximise the potential of our lakes, seas and the oceanfront, we can add easily between three and six percent growth on the current trajectory. Let the SBEC not have been a talk shop. The national government and the counties, as well as institutions of learning and investors, should take advantage of this meet to actualise Kenya’s blue economy.  Kibii comments on current affairs   