Two doctors on Friday urged the private sector to support the government’s universal healthcare project. Bliss Heath Care assistant director of operations Martin Wafula and medical superintendent Steve Amaya said the success of the UHC programme will largely depend on the support of the private sector. President Uhuru Kenyatta will roll out the universal healthcare pilot project on December 13. The pilot programme will cost Sh3.9 billion and is expected to last for at least one year before the programme is rolled out in other counties. Its progress will be reviewed after six months. Uhuru was to launch it on Saturday, but it was rescheduled. Nyeri is one of the counties to benefit from the project. Others are Kisumu, Isiolo and Machakos. At least 3.2 million Kenyans from the four select counties will be the first beneficiaries. Universal healthcare is one of the pillars of the national government’s Big Four agenda. Others are manufacturing, food security and affordable housing. In July, Health CS Sicily Kariuki said the pilot counties were selected based on the extent of their disease burden. Nyeri leads in noncommunicable diseases such as diabetes, Kisumu in infectious diseases such as TB and Machakos in accidents and injuries. Isiolo was picked to see how the package would work among the nomadic populations. On Friday, Wafula and Amaya said the private firms are well equipped to give adequate back-up. They said the Kenyan UHC model should rely on best practices in countries where governments have partnered with the private sector to improve healthcare services. “The project should be owned by Kenyans from down-up. The work of the government and the private sector should be to implement,” Wafula said. After patients are registered, they will get free services in all referral hospitals. The national government will allocate Sh800 million to each county and the devolved units will contribute a similar amount. Community health volunteers will be paid a monthly stipend of Sh2,500. They will get the NHIF membership as an appreciation to their work.