Trade unionist Francis Atwoli says graft suspects should be arrested on Friday and cool their heels in police cells util bail hearings on Monday. He said the suspects would have no way of calling their lawyers to try and find their way out of cells. Courts are closed on weekends. He made the comments on Friday last week at Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology last Friday after being awarded an honorary doctorate degree. The Cutu secretary general said he supports the Director of Public Prosecution Nordin Haji and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti in arresting the suspected perpetrators of corruption on Fridays, in preference to other days. Hecalled on all Kenyans to fully support President Uhuru Kenyatta in his fight against corruption. “Our institutions of higher learning are in dire need of funds to fund research,” Atwoli said. “When I see the people who went through these institutions being hunted for stealing huge amounts of money — which should have been used to contribute to these institutions for research — I support the President to continue arresting these young men and women.” He said corruption deters  economic growth and that nobody would like to invest in a corrupt society. “So we are telling His Excellency the President we are with him in this fight and support him for making the arrests,” Atwoli said. “Let us not underminewhatever good work the President is doing by narrowing it to selected political issues, let’s keep politics out of this exercise.” He said Kenyans need to live decent lives, earn good salaries to sustain their families and that this could not be achieved when resources are being stolen by a few selfish individuals. Atwoli also declared his support for a constitutional amendment , ayingKenya’s politics are pegged on ethnicity and the only way to fix the problem is by revisiting the Constitution. “For us to come out of fighting immediately after elections we must revisit our national Constitution and governance so that nobody wins and takes it all and the majority of the people are left out,” Atwoli said. Honours for Atwoli were based on his local and international roles in championing worker rights.