The Knut Northeastern branch yesterday accused the TSC of opposing Education CS Amina Mohamed and the qualification authority’s plan to lower minimum entry grades for teachers’ training colleges. The aim is to generate more teachers for Northeastern and other areas suffering tutors shortage. Last week, a letter from the Attorney General’s office said no law gives the CS or the Kenya National Qualification Authority the power to set such standards. The Teachers Service Commission had sought interpretation of the role of the CS in lowering grades to enter teachers training colleges. Through affirmative action in education, the CS lowered the grades of primary teacher training colleges from C– to D+. Those of diploma teachers training colleges were lowered to C- from C+. Counties in this bracket are Isiolo, Tana River, Homa Bay, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Lamu, West Pokot, Narok, Kilifi, Wajir, Mandera, Turkana, Garissa, Samburu and Marsabit. These regions depend largely on non-local teachers and education was almost crippled after the TSC transferred more than 900 teachers who feared for their safety. Following the acute teacher shortage, local leaders and the Education ministry considered several policy actions, including lowering entry grades to teacher training colleges for students from Northeastern. But speaking to the press in Garissa town after a regional council meeting yesterday, Knut leaders said the TSC should stop creating wrangles among stakeholders. Knut assistant national treasurer Ali Abdi said the teachers’ employer has failed to implement quality education and has impeded services. “It is unfortunate that TSC has continued to wrongly advise the executive on many policies, which in turn antagonise and de-professionalise the teaching career at the expense of our children,” he said. Abdi said many students from the region who attained the required grades are already in colleges countrywide. He said any policy change will morally, psychologically and financially hurt parents and the students. Garissa Knut executive Abdirizack Hussein urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and settle the problem. Mandera Knut secretary Kullow Mohamed urged the TSC to meet stakeholders to iron out issues he said are threatening to tear apart the education sector. “We leaders are receiving numerous calls from frustrated parents asking what will happen to their children in colleges if the TSC changes the entry grades. Unfortunately, we have nothing to tell them,” Kullow said. Some parents with children in teaching colleges expressed worries. “We decided to take our children to colleges based on the ministry’s decision. They need to set the record straight because we are confused,” parent Amina Abdi said.