A postmortem report of the five people who were shot dead in Kolongolo clashes on Sunday has shown that they died from excess bleeding as a result of bullet wounds. Western region head pathologist Dr Dickson Muchana while releasing the report on Wednesday said they found a bullet in one of the bodies while the others had gun wounds. “We have found a bullet in one of the bodies, it will be handed over to IPOA who are investigating the case,” he said on Wednesday. Dr Muchana noted that the exercise went down well and the family members of the bereaved have been satisfied with the report. “We have conducted the postmortem in the presence of the family members, IPOA, DCI and independent Medico-legal (Unit MLU) and everyone is satisfied,” he said. Read: [VIDEO] Kitale: Five feared dead in clash between police, villagers Dr Muchana conducted the postmortem with Senior doctor at Mt Elgon hospital Dr Alex Barasa. The families who spoke to the Star, have exuded confidence that they will find Justice with IPOA investigating the case. “We are in much pain for losing our loved once in an unfortunate circumstance but we do hope that we will find justice,” said Joseph Barasa a brother to one of the deceased. He said that all the five families who lost their relatives in the clash will hold one fundraiser to help them foot the hospital bill. Maurice Simiyu who was shot first by the officers triggering the conflicts had a bullet that pierced through his heart, destroyed diagram and came out through his back. On Sunday, a violent clash erupted between police officers and Kolongolo residents that left five dead with several others sustaining serious bullet wounds. The incident unfolded after two officers had been dispatched to Kolongolo village Kwanza constituency to arrest a man for allegedly assaulting his wife. More: Victim’s kin blames trigger-happy cops Also read: Trigger-happy cops kill six after bid to arrest wife-beater gets out of control Click here for the latest political news