Kenya Prisons’ women’s team Josp Barasa has no pressure to deliver as he embraces his new head coach position ahead of next year competitions. Barasa guided the team to reclaim the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league title having played second fiddle to acclaimed coach and KVF technical director David Lung’aho for quite some time. The tactician, who will for the first time take charge of the team during the Africa Club Championship and the 2019 season, said he has no pressure taking up his new role because it’s what he does on a daily basis. “I have worked as an assistant coach at both the club and national level and therefore I knows what is expected of me,” he noted. Kenya Prisons’ women’s volleyball team Josp Barasa has no pressure to deliver as he embraces his head coach position ahead of next year competitions. Barasa guided the team to reclaim the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) national league title having played second fiddle to acclaimed coach and KVF technical director David Lung’aho for quite some time. The tactician who will for the first time take charge of the team during the Africa Club Championship and the 2019 season, said he has no pressure noting he has worked as an assistant coach at the club level and at the national team and therefore he knows what is expected of him. “It doesn’t make me a lesser coach the fact that I have been an assistant coach for quite some time now. In fact, the position has seem me learn a lot from the tacticians I have worked under and really I embrace the position with a lot of humility with rich of exposure,” noted Barasa. He added: “I have my work well cut out. First on the radar is the club championship. We will resume our training early January and hit the road running as our focus is to reclaim the club championship and retain the league title. I know it is not going to be easy but I have the team that is willing to support me.”= At the same time, Under 20 women’s right attacker Mercy Ibinza has joined champions Kenya Prisons’. The former Lugulu Girls High school player was part of the team that featured for the national junior side during the African Nation Championship last August in Nairobi. Barasa confirmed the signing, saying they are out to build a strong side ahead next season “Yes, Ibinza is now our player and we are glad to have her services going forward. Ours has been to build a young squad as we target to retain the league title next year and at the same time try to reclaim the Africa Club Championship,” said Barasa . He added: “The Kwanthanze duo of setter Esther Mutinda and middle blocker Gladys Ekaru should be with us hopefully next year but I am aware they are currently training at their school and we will have to wait and see.”