Rugby Africa have confirmed that Kenya will host the Pool ‘A’ matches of the 2019 Under20 Barthes Cup. The side known as Chipu will face holders Namibia, Tunisia and Senegal in Nairobi, according to Rugby Africa. Earlier this year, participating unions had been asked to bid to host the tournament which will run from March 27-30. The winner will qualify for the 2019 Junior World Rugby Trophy in Brazil. Kenya have played second fiddle to Namibia in the past two years, losing in the final but Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) director of rugby, Thomas Odundo, said hosting the event on home soil could give Kenya the edge. “Playing the tournament at home could give us an advantage. You can see the last two years we have almost matched Namibia and this is a wonderful opportunity for us to qualify for the Junior World Cup,” added Odundo. The Paul Odera coached side will start their training next month in readiness for the pool matches. Pool ‘B’ will see Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast, Morocco and Madagascar with Uganda headlining Pool ‘C’ alongside, Algeria, Zambia, and Ghana. Elsewhere, Mwamba skipper Brad Owako is upbeat about the team chances of making the playoffs following a poor start to the season. Mwamba bagged their second consecutive win in of the campaign after seeing off plucky Menengai Oilers 27-15 at the RFUEA ground over the weekend. This comes hot on the heels of a slim 13-12 victory over Nondies last weekend in their first win of the season. The Railways-based club had lost all their three opening fixtures of the season losing 29-26 to Quins, 22-18 to Homeboyz and 33-13 to champions KCB. Owako said they are confident a good run of form can take them higher in the standings. “ We have won our last two games and this gives the team confidence going forward. Our first two losses were narrow and the boys kept their head up and I would like to commend them for their efforts,” he noted. Mwamba lie seventh with 12 points with two wins and three defeats. Owako said the goal for the side is to make the playoffs after missing out last season. “Kenya Cup is competitive. There are no easy teams but our players have matured and are getting better. We can get to the playoffs this time around.”