Deputy President William Ruto’s Western backing for his 2022 bid appears to be slowing despite new entrants into his camp, according to political analysts. Former Kakamega senator Boni Khalwale and Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako are the latest entrants from the region in the DP’s camp. Analysts have raised questions as to whether Ruto’s forays in the region, which voted overwhelmingly for the opposition in the last general election, are achieving the desired goals. The DP on average visits Western more than twice a month to sell his agenda as the suitable heir to President Uhuru Kenyatta when he retires in 2022. The number of elected leaders accompanying him during his tours has steadily declined. He toured Emuhaya and Ikolomani on Monday in his latest visit of the region. Political analyst Martin Oloo said that the DP’s approach was not working as he moves around with MPs and MCAs and not the people. Oloo said that the DP’s style of giving money to leaders to follow him around and proclaim support adds no value to his cause. “The DP’s camp is suffering because of the characters it is attracting. Western leaders do not understand what the people want and are walking alone. The style of giving people money to proclaim support for you is outdated,” he said. Another analyst Martin Andati said that the intensity of the DP’s activities in the region should be gaining some mileage. He said, however, that the choice of public rallies by the DP’s camp was not paying off. “They should have started with town hall meetings to penetrate the grassroots first before holding rallies. What they are doing now is talking at and not to the people,” Andati said. He said that most leaders who follow the DP only talk about him in his presence, apart from Khalwale. “When you pay people to move around insulting others, it is difficult to endear yourself to Kenyans, particularly Luhyas. They want people who will sell their agenda to them peacefully,” he said. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa who was one of Ruto’s fiercest defenders has since alighted from the DP’s bandwagon. Last month, Wamalwa told Jubilee MPs from Western ‘to stop loitering’ in the region and pressuring him to back the DP’s bid. “I have already met my brothers Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula and we agreed we will no longer engage in political mediocrity but fight for our people,” he said. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe (Jubilee) has slowed down his public support of Ruto and has skipped some of his recent functions. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala who was warming up to the DP has since retreated from the camp.