Muthaiga Golf Club’s Greg Snow returned an excellent score of 2-under par 70, the best of the third round, to take the lead of the Safari Tour leg at the Thika Greens Golf Resort. Snow, who started the round in 3rd place, wasted no time in showing his intentions, shooting back to back birdies at the par-3 third and par par-5 fourth holes. He would follow these up with further birdies on the 13th and 18th. However, a bogey at the 16th hole saw him return a score of 2-under and a shot ahead of Joseph Karanja. Speaking after the Round, Snow said he was pleased with his performance adding that he is fully focused on the final round. “Overall, it was a good round and I am pleased with my performance especially after the slow start in the first round. I picked it up yesterday and I am now focusing on the last round to get the win,” he said. Overnight leader Timothy Omuli dropped to second spot after returning a score of 3-over par 75 following four bogeys on the par-3 third, par-4 twelfth, par-5 thirteenth and par-4 sixteenth—thus taking his overall tally to 1-under par 215—two shots behind Snow. Long-hitting, Dismas Indiza of Mumias had a tumultuous day, shooting 3-over par 75 to take his tournament total to 1-over par 217 that left him tied fourth alongside Nyali’s Njuguna Ngugi. In the first nine, Indiza dropped shots at the Par-4 fifth, Par-3 sixth and the Par-4 ninth with a solo birdie on the Par-5 second—taking his first nine total to 38. On the back nine, he held par from the 10th to the 15th holes before dropping a shot on the Par-4 16th and the Par-5 18th for a back nine for a total of 37. This was the first time in the tournament that Indiza had failed to record level par or lower after 18 holes. Meanwhile, Ugandan Philip Kasozi continued with his steady performance at the tournament to record level par after 18 holes— taking his tournament total so far to 2-over par 218— his best performance in the Safari Tour after three rounds. He is currently sixth on the leader board, one ahead of Kenyan duo of Nelson Simwa and CJ Wangai.