The warming of the Indian Ocean has delayed the short rains, the Met Department has said. However, parts of the country should expect rainfall in the next five days, it said. Meteorologist Ayub Shaka said the warming was occasioned by a tropical cyclone. “This interfered with the rains, but it has now disappeared. There will be a pick-up of rainfall in some parts of the country from Friday until Thursday,” he said. Shaka told the Star most parts will start receiving rains on Friday to December 6, especially the Eastern region. Some parts of Western and Central will experience a dry period until Thursday, after which they will start receiving normal rains. Shaka said the rains will be normal and there will be no flooding. In Nairobi, showers might occur in a few places on Saturday afternoon and night. On Sunday and Monday, rains are expected over a few places in the morning while showers are likely to occur in the afternoon. The rainfall is expected to be moderate, but might be heavier on Sunday. According to the latest forecast running from November 29 to December 4, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia will receive sunny intervals and showers and thunderstorms over several places. There will be sunshine in Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties, followed by rains over a few places. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties will have rains over a few places, breaking into sunny intervals. There will be afternoon showers over a few places around the Mt Kenya area. “Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta counties will experience rains over a few places. The coastal strip counties of Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale will have showers over a few places and sunny intervals,” Aura said. The March-May rains this year ravaged various parts of the country, causing massive destruction. The floods and rains damaged homes, schools, hospitals, clinics, churches, sewage treatment plants, boreholes, drainage systems, dams, irrigation systems, markets, municipal buildings, highways, roads and bridges. Some children were unable to go to school because the institutions were flooded or were being used as shelters for displaced persons. Families were marooned at home and roads were cut off by the floods. Click here for the latest political news