The people who call Malindi home or have investments there are pushing for the relocation of the dumpsite to create sanity and end environmental threats — but dwellers differ. Currently, there is a tarmac road being built to connect Watamu and Malindi through Mayungu. However, at Casuarina, where the dumpsite is located, there are many negative effects caused by the waste. A spot check at the dumpsite, which is popularly called Timboni,  indicated that there are no proper measures for dumping the litter. This forces some people to ditch their trash so close to the road. When journalists visited the dumpsite, we found over 100 people, some of whom have lived there for more than 40 years. Tales from the dwellers residing at the site show that they are in their own world, as the county government does not bother to manage them. Some of those staying there, including children, look for food dumped from hotels to eat, while others do business with plastic waste or scrap metal. Some are not opposed to the dumpsite’s relocation, though others feel they would be denied their ‘economic centre’, as the new dumpsite, if it is made a reality, will be in Kakuyuni.  LIFE IN THE TRASH Resident Sande Ngome says the garbage collection vehicles come and dump anywhere. Fellow resident, Charo Tinga left his home in Kakoneni to look for fortune from the dumpsite. However, he says, the area has no water and most people depend on the waste for survival. “We have heard about the relocation of the dumpsite, but we are based here. Even if it is relocated, the government needs to consider our welfare,” he says. Another resident, Amos Kaingu, says there has to be plans to support those who depend on the waste for survival. “Life here is tough. We only collect waste material, some of which is edible, to survive,” says Kaingu, who has lived there since 2006. He shows me flour which he collected and wants to go and prepare for lunch. Apart from collecting waste, Kaingu also does odd jobs of breaking corals for construction works. Kanze Katana, a mother of 12, gave birth to her three of the children at the dumpsite. Her work is to collect bottles, plastics and other water bottles for survival. She says business has gone down. She has been collecting plastic bottles stick for the last three years.Currently she sells them at Sh1.50. When asked about their safety, the residents said there is no choice because most of them live in poverty and rely on the waste to get food and other materials for sale to survive. In as far as the locals want to survive, time has come for them to change their lifestyle, and through support, look for other income-generating activities. The decision of relocating the dumpsite should be done quickly so as to save the already ailing tourism sector.