President Uhuru Kenyatta has appealed to rehabilitated drunkards to be ambassadors in the war on illicit alcohol. He also urged them not to waste time, but get married and sire children. The President spoke on Wednesday at Mama Care Rehabilitation Centre in Wangunyu Primary School in Kiambu. He attended the graduation of 77 alcoholics who have been undergoing a nine-month rehabilitation programme. Among the graduates who received a certificate from Uhuru was Martin Kamotho, popularly known as Githeriman. Kamotho shot to the limelight during the 2017 General Election after a photo of him queuing to vote in the morning with githeri packed in plastic bag went viral on social media. Kamotho urged youths to stay away from alcohol and drugs and obey their parents. Uhuru praised Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba for coming up with the initiative, saying it will help fight alcoholism in the county. The Mama Care Rehabilitation Centre is funded by National Government Affirmative Action Fund. Uhuru urged other leaders to emulate the project, saying it will help the community reduce cases of drug and alcohol abuse. "This is a good project that needs to be emulated countrywide. We have all witnessed where the monies given to women reps are going," he said. He was accompanied by Public Service CS Margaret Kobia, Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh, Governor Ferdinand Waititu, and Senator Kimani Wamatangi. Others were MPs Jonah Mburu (Lari), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa), Jude Njomo (Kiambu), Antony Oluoch (Mathare North), Charles Njagua (Starehe), and Francis Waititu (Juja). Wamuchomba said she came up with the centre to rescue young men from destructive behaviour. She said many women had complained their husbands had become irresponsible after abusing drugs and alcohol. Wamuchomba said the rehabilitated men were trained in tailoring, carpentry and catering. "We are giving them items bought by the NGAAF kitty to help them start businesses which will help support their lives and families," the lawmaker said. Click here for the latest political news