Officers at Voi police station on Monday scampered for safety when an elephant raced through the compound as it was being chased by boda boda riders. The jumbo had strayed from Tsavo East National Park on Sunday night and wandered to Mwakingali village. Early in the morning, word went round about the roaming elephant and hundreds of curious villagers gathered to see the animal. It fled towards Voi town with dozens of excited boda boda riders chasing it. Kenya Wildlife Service officers cautioned the public to stay away from the animal, but their pleas fell on deaf ears. The elephant rambled through the Moi Stadium in Voi town before menacingly ripping through the fence of Voi police station. Police officers who were getting ready for work fled inside the building. The animal charged around in the compound and went to hide in a bush near Voi public cemetery. Voi police boss Joseph Chesire said the elephant had lost its way back to the park. He said it was fleeing from the noises from the crowd. “No one was injured. Everyone is safe,” he said. Residents carrying axes, pangas and sacks waited in anticipation for the elephant to be shot dead so that they can collect meat. However, KWS's senior warden community service Zainabu Salim told the public to stay away. Later, police were called to disperse the crowd so that the animal can be driven back to the park. Disappointed villagers accused the police and KWS of denying them an early Christmas. Boda boda rider Alex Ngau said, "There is a reason why the elephant had wandered in their homes just when Christmas was around the corner. He the police and KWS officials had no business taking away their gift. “This was Christmas gift brought by our prayers. It is wrong to take it away,” he lamented. However, Chesire warned the public to keep away from wild animals because it could cause tragedies. “We chase you to keep you safe. It’s not malice or hate. It is for your own good,” the police boss said. Click here for the latest political news