Deputy President William Ruto has said he will only support a referendum if it focuses on strengthening devolution. Ruto said devolution has transformed the lives of the majority of Kenyans in rural areas despite the problems encountered when implementing it. Responding to MCAs who vowed to oppose any move to interfere with devolution in case of a referendum, Ruto said he would only support amendments that seek to empower devolved units. Ruto on Friday hosted MCAs from Kakamega, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties at his Sugoi home in Uasin Gishu county. “I want to assure you that I will support any discussion on how to enhance devolution and increase its allocation but not to create some positions at the top level alone,” he said. The Deputy President said he was not opposed to a referendum to amend the Constitution, saying he has only given his opinion, which is his right, on some issues. “I have a right to give my opinion on the proposed referendum just like any other Kenyan. In fact, I have no problem with presidential or parliamentary system of governance so long as Kenyans decide,” Ruto said. Elgeyo Marakwet speaker Kiplagat Sabulei and Kakamega deputy speaker Farouk Machanje said they would do everything possible to ensure no one interfered with the current structure of devolution. They dismissed calls by leaders, including ODM leader Raila Odinga that the number of MCAs should be reduced. “It is unbelievable that the same leaders who supported the 2010 Constitution have now turned against the same laws since it has not favoured them as far as leadership is concerned. We will defend the current structure of devolution,” Machanje said. He said they have resolved to support the government. “We want to dismiss the narrative that Western Kenya is an opposition zone that doesn’t welcome leaders who are focused on matters of development. As a leader in this country, you are free to tour any part of Kenya including the Luhya land to help on matters of development,” Machanje said. Ruto said he was ready to work with all leaders irrespective of their political affiliations, noting that development would be elusive to achieve if leaders were not united. “As MCAs, you are leaders at the grassroots who are well placed to help the government implement its development projects, especially the Big Four agenda. We will work together for the sake of now and the future,” Ruto said. The Deputy President, at the same time, asked MCAs from Kerio Valley region to help the government in the fight against insecurity occasioned by banditry and cattle rustling activities. “I want to persuade you as leaders to take the lead in the fight against cattle rustling activities which have retarded the development of Kerio Valley region,” Ruto said. Read: Referendum is for idlers, says Ruto Related: Referendum puts Uhuru, Raila and Ruto at crossroads Click here for the latest political news