Murdered Rongo University student Sharon Otieno and controversial lawyer Miguna Miguna were the top trending local personalities in 2018. Sharon had a seven-month-old pregnancy when she was killed. Migori Governor Okoth Obado and two others, Michael Oyamo and Caspal Obiero are facing charges in connection to the murder. Obado came in sixth. Read: Detectives consider DNA test in probe into Sharon’s murder Also read: State pledges thorough probe into Sharon Otieno's murder On the other hand, Miguna trended after he was deported forcibly to Canada by the government. Miguna was deported on February 6 following the swearing-in of ODM leader Raila Odinga as the people’s President on January 30 at Uhuru Park. He was accompanied by Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang, who administered the oath and Siaya Senator and lawyer James Orengo. Miguna stamped the documents during the inauguration. Read: I'll be back after September 4, says Miguna Coming in the third position in the Google trends released on Monday night is Citizen TV presenter Jacque Maribe. Maribe trended after she was charged with the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani in September. She faces the charges with her co-accused, Joseph 'Jowie' Irungu. She, however, won reprieve after the court released her on Sh1 million bail on October 30. Read: Jacque Maribe makes first public appearance at Lesuuda's wedding since her release Maribe was followed by Embakasi East MP Babu Owino. Babu pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to keep his political career from going down the drain. This was Babu's first time to ask for help from the President following the nullification of his election by the High Court. When his election was cancelled, Babu claimed Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto had a hand in the court verdict. Read: [VIDEO] Pull me from fire, save my political career, Babu Owino begs Uhuru Also read: Kiambu bursts with demos after Babu Owino's 'Uhuru is a puppy' remarks State House spokeswoman Kanze Dena came in fifth after her appointment by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Dena was holding the position in an acting capacity for three months since the exit of Manoah Esipisu. Esipisu was appointed as Kenya's High Commissioner to the UK in July. But her appointment was later confirmed. Read: Kanze Dena takes over as PSCU boss, Esipisu nominated ambassador Veteran politician Kenneth Matiba was seventh after his death in April. Matiba died while receiving treatment at the Karen Hospital. He was followed by Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri who trended after a video of him naked with an unidentified woman surfaced in April. The clip was reportedly shot in Kakamega town, where leaders were attending the 5th Annual Devolution Conference. Businesswoman Monica Kimani came in ninth after she was killed. Maribe and Jowie are facing murder charges for this. In the 10th position was musician Joseph Kamaru. The 79-year-old passed away at MP Shah Hospital, Nairobi after he complained of a back problem that caused him difficulties in movement.  Top Trending Events 2018 World Cup 2018 Raila swearing-in Lunar Eclipse Lecturers’ strike Royal Wedding KDF recruitment 2018 Winter Olympics Migori by-election Zimbabwe elections Ali Kiba wedding Top Trending Global Personalities Alexis Sanchez Avicii Rose Muhando Meghan Markle Bobi Wine Kofi Annan Pierre-Emerick Emiliano François Aubameyang Croatia President Prince Harry Billy Graham  Top Trending “What is?” What is lunar eclipse? What is Samantha? What is the Blue Economy? What is sex? What is riparian land? What is Halloween? What is ovulation? What is bitcoin? What is communication? What is management? Click here for the latest political news