A good author is able to take his readers to places they have never been from the comfort of their seats through their writing. And in the same way, a good author engages his readers so intimately that they feel they are part of the action. Chris Mureithi, a keynote speaker and training consultant, succeeds in making readers of his 241-page book,  The realities of the 21st century: How can we grow and succeed in an ever-changing world, feel they are part of his journey. The book combines humour (both dark and subtle), inspiration and personal experiences to motivate readers to make the changes they need to thrive in this era of disruption. The book’s foreword is written by KCB Group CEO Joshua Oigara, who talks about the importance of self-awareness to be able to run the race that is your life. Chris’s style of writing is casual. The reader feels as if the author is talking to him or her as a friend would. From giving examples of his parent’s methods of disciplining, which are relatable to many people who grew up in Kenyan households, to using slang like ‘ain’t’, the author takes a laidback approach as he gives readers tips. The central theme in the book is the need to move from old ways of doing things to adapting to change. Chris warns against the “If it ain’t broken, don’t fix it” stance. He backs this stand at the very beginning of the book, in the first chapter titled ‘The Mourinho Syndrome’, referring to then Chelsea coach Jose Mourinho’s choices in 2015 that proved the ‘if it ain’t broken, don’t fix it’ stance is dangerous. The author ends each chapter with either a poem or writings by notable figures that related to the chapter. Chris cuts through the serious topics with humour. In the chapter titled ‘The knife that cuts without drawing blood’, the author flashes back to his time as a young man starting his career and living in a servant’s quarter. “Since nothing starts from the top except a grave and a pit latrine, you’ll probably start in a servant’s quarter or bedsitter. For those who value a challenging environment that inspires them to get better, it will probably be in a leafy suburb. On your way, massive automobiles will growl at you with utopic kids wondering why you are walking, because the only other people who walk in that neighbourhood are chaps who walk dogs as part of their daily exercise...” The book has tips on how to grow your career, mistakes that should be avoided and general life lessons. It’s a good motivator for those stagnating in life and their careers to get up and make a change before change leaves you irrelevant.  Star Rating: 4/5