The government is investigating politicians believed to be behind the fresh violence that rocked Narok South subcounty, leaving one person dead and five others injured at the weekend. The violence occurred in Ololoipangi, Nkoben and Oloruasi.  It is suspected it started after a cow was stolen leading to a revenge attack on Friday. Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu said the state has put measures in place, including heavy deployment of security officers, to end the violence. He spoke at Solabwek AGC church on Sunday. “We are investigating some politicians who could be behind the current tension in the area. They were no reasons to fight each other because the missing cow was found. Some leaders visited the troubled area after the violence erupted,” Ntutu said. He said there would be no sacred cows in the investigations regardless of which community the suspected politicians come from. “When the violence started, I called the area chief and he told the clashes started as a result of a missing cow. I promised them that I would personally donate another heifer to compensate for the missing one so as to reduce the tension,” he said. Ntutu warned all the politicians to avoid making statements that could jeopardise peacemaking. “When our security teams are working hard to contain the situation, some politicians are undermining these efforts. We will not allow that,” he said. He called on the residents to remain calm as the government deploys the GSU and other security officers to quell the clashes. Narok county commissioner George Natembeya imposed a curfew in the area until peace returns. Narok North MP Moitalel Kenta blamed the government for failing to contain the situation. “As one of the area leaders, I am concerned by the resurgence of ethnic violence barely three months after another spate of violence. This is unacceptable and the government should up its game,” Kenta told the Star on phone. The lawmaker linked the skirmishes to delay by the government to implement the Mau Task Force report. He petitioned the Director of Public Prosecutions to order arrests on the masterminds of Mau Forest invasion.