The period leading up to the Christmas holidays all the way into the first week of the new year is often referred to in the journalism trade as the “Silly Season”. It is one of the times of the year when news tends to slow down as a result of all the usual noisemakers (in the spirit of the season I really should be charitable and refer to them as newsmakers) take time off the podium to recharge their batteries for the next year. This year in South Africa, the silly season began with former President Jacob Zuma joining Twitter. While he was head of state, he had an official Twitter account that was run on his behalf by some government official, probably someone on the government’s communication staff. However, at the end of November, after a year out of power, the former President decided to, in his own words, learn “about the sphithiphithi [confusion] of social media”. Since people realised that it was really JZ (as they refer to him here) and not a parody account, the former President has racked up an impressive number of followers, 132,000 by time of writing [ 20 December] to his account @PresJGZuma. The last I checked, he was following 605 people, including Bonang Matheba, a South African television personality, radio host and businesswoman; Tito Mboweni, the Finance Minister, comedian Trevor Noah and interestingly for me, an artiste from Nairobi, Clavers Odhiambo. I scrolled down the list but couldn’t find if he followed Cyril Ramaphosa, the man who succeeded him as President. There’s not much love lost between them and so no surprises there. The other bit of silliness that caught my attention (and I must admit here that I deliberately refused to probe it too deeply for fear of allowing the truth to destroy a good story) was what appeared to be a Win-a-Car Facebook campaign to recruit voters for the main opposition here, the Democratic Alliance (DA). There is a general election here at some point next year, probably in May and legally no later than August 4. With a recent poll having put the main opposition DA at 23 per cent of the vote compared to the ANC’s 52 per cent, clearly the opposition needs to hook more voters if it is to have a chance of winning in 2019. If win-a-car competitions work to increase shoppers in supermarkets, surely it could work to get more people to register as voters, but will they vote the party that offers them a car? The secret ballot is a tricky thing, as nobody can actually prove that they voted a certain way or not. The DA is offering a Suzuki Swift. Might it do better if it offered a Range Rover? Meanwhile, by the way, does this mean that the makes of the car or the dealers are supporters of the party? Or are they splitting their favours? In this day and age, where we want to know who pays for what and how they benefit, these are serious questions for the future of South Africa’s democracy.