Youths in Mandera have been asked to shun violent extremism because it was ruining their lives. The National Counter Terrorism Centre asked youths to report to authorities people involved in acts of terrorism to end the vice. NCTC officials said terrorism has hampered the growth of Mandera as youths are lured to violent extremism at the expense of development. Mandera is among counties where youths have been lured to join the ranks of al Shabaab militants in neighbouring Somalia. "The youths who have joined the terror group have found the promises to be false," NCTC official Komen Cheboi said. He was speaking during the closure of a four-day workshop on counter terrorism and violent extremism in Mandera town on Saturday. Tens of people have been killed by terrorists in Mandera in retaliatory attacks after Kenya defence Forces crossed into Somalia to drive away al Shabaab. In December 2014, the terrorists killed 36 people in an attack at a quarry in Kormey, some 15km from Mandera town. Weeks earlier, the militants attacked a Nairobi-bound bus and killed 28 passengers, mainly teachers who were heading to their rural homes for Christmas holidays. Many more attacks have occurred in the region since then. Two months ago, al Shabaab militants killed two teachers and burnt the staff room at Arabia Boys Secondary School in Mandera East. On Saturday, Cheboi said residents could help the curb the attacks. He said participants confessed that youths have abandoned their families, joined the terror group and were fighting their motherland. He asked the community to advise its members on the importance of patriotism. Cheboi asked religious leaders, politicians and school heads to sensitise youths against violet extremism and radicalisation, saying such acts have scared off potential investors. Mandera East deputy county commissioner Lawrence Omondi said terrorism had reduced in the last two years compared to the period between 2011 and 2016. He attributed the decline to cooperation between residents and security officers. Omondi said the building of Kenya/Somalia border security wall will reduce terror attacks.