A section of Rift Valley politicians have maintained they will ensure Deputy President William Ruto is accorded maximum support in the 2022 presidential race. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo and his Baringo South counterpart Charles Kamuren said this is the only reward the region should give Ruto for his academic success. Ruto on Friday graduated with a PhD in Plant Ecology at the University of Nairobi. "Count on me fully. I will mobilise all votes and make sure the entire Baringo county is locked for you to takeover presidency in 2022," Kamuren said. His sentiments were echoed by Cheptumo and Moses Lessonet (Eldama-Ravine) who said they will support Ruto's bid for his hard work and tireless service to humanity. The legislators were addressing farmers during the annual Kimalel Goat Auction in Marigat on Saturday. Read: Dr Ruto: Deputy president graduates with PhD in Plant Ecology at UoN Cheptumo and Kamuren also lashed out at Tiaty MP William Kamket for his utterance during a sporting function in Kabarnet town on Friday. The MP, during the said event, promised Ruto a tough political war ahead of the next general election. "2022 will not be as easy as you may think we are awake the battle will separate boy from men" Kamket said. Murkomen, who was also present, lauded DP Ruto for not tiring up to visit the goat auction. "We hope he will one day visit as President of the republic of Kenya." His comments were targetted at his Baringo counterpart Gideon Moi, who did not attend the function. Gideon and William are angling to have say in the populous rift vote. The two want to take over from President Uhuru Kenyatta. "As people of Rift Valley, we are 100 per cent united going forward and will back our own bull DP Ruto to become President in 2022," Murkomen said. Also read: 'Graduation, birthday and wedding anniversary' Triple celebration for Ruto on December 21 Apart from gracing the Kimalel auction where he bought 1,000 goats at Sh10 million, Ruto also opened Maoi abattoir and Mogotio tannery to aide slaughter and grading of livestock products. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said the Kikuyu community are hardworking people and they would want to be associated with industrious leaders like Ruto. He also told off those doubting Ruto's doctorate degree that it was achieved through serious studies and commitment. Ruto however in his remarks kept off the 2022 debate and urged leaders to focus on service delivery. Click here for the latest political news