Though there are a hundred reasons why Kenyans want to
see corruption dragon slayed and buried, there are also many reasons why
Parliament, among other institutions, has found it difficult to fight and end it. One reason why I fought and joined Parliament at the
tender age of 30 was to fight corruption. As JM Kariuki had said — before he
was brutally assassinated by allies of corruption — Kenya had become a nation
of 10 millionaires and 10 million beggars.
Fast-forward to today, we would say corruption has created 40 trillionaires and
40 million beggars Although there is a public outcry against graft, there
is also a definite feeling that many in government are not truly committed to
its elimination. Nevertheless, it was shocking to read in the newspapers that
corruption was “set free” in cases of Ruaraka land scandal and the Sugar report
merely because MPs had allegedly taken bribes or refused to condemn graft that
was perpetrated by fellow members of same party or ethnic community. But there
were other reasons why MPs could simply not condemn graft. To begin with, many MPs were corrupt long before they
joined Parliament since Chapter Six of the Constitution, which would have barred
them from vying, was set aside, allowing them to join the House and continue
being corrupt which was now second nature to them. It is almost needless to say that corrupt MPs can only
use myriad parliamentary privileges to perpetrate more corruption and protect
themselves and others against prosecution. Indeed, corrupt MPs do not just use Parliament to
protect corruption. They also use it to promote and perpetuate it with total
impunity through legislation. Tragically, corruption is not new in Parliament. In
many parliaments, legislators have benefited from the protection of the corrupt,
whom they should supposedly be investigating. MPs have also taken bribes to
vote in a particular manner in the House. Once, a chair of the Public Accounts Committee told members
that if they did not benefit from their protection of corrupt persons they were
investigating, they would never become rich. The tragedy of this corrupt
practice is that committee members were not just bribed by corrupt businessmen
and women but also by the government, in instances it sought to influence their
voting in Parliament. Often, it made MPs shed tears when they saw fellow MPs
mobilised to kill reports of Public Investment Committee and Public Accounts
Committee that had incontrovertible evidence of corruption by civil servants
and parastatals employees, as well as private companies that stole huge sums of
money from the government. As expected, these individuals are not prosecuted
because reports implicating them are killed on the floor of the House. But MPs do not just engage in protecting corruption.
They steal from government by making false mileage claims and are never
punished. I remember once when almost all MPs and Cabinet ministers were found
guilty of making false mileage claims but were pardoned by President Daniel Moi
because their prosecution would have collapsed his government. But guilty as MPs are of corruption, the government is
guiltier of refusing to prosecute cases the Controller of Budget and the
Auditor General expose every year in their reports, which it never takes up,
neither do constitutional anti-corruption agencies for further investigation
and execution. Corruption is left to grow to be
the monster that it is today not for lack of
evidence against it or means to fight it, but because government, Parliament
and the Judiciary have no moral will or ideological reason to fight and
eliminate it. Here, corruption and leaders are not enemies. They are bedfellows
and allies that protect each other.  