At least six listed companies at the Nairobi Securities Exchange have issued profit warnings this year citing tough economic environment. Yesterday, Bamburi Cement was the latest to warn its shareholders of foreseen losses for the 2018 full year linked to higher power costs and difficult market conditions. A profit warning is triggered when full year earnings are expected to decrease by more than 25 per cent. “The Board of Directors of the Company wishes to inform the shareholders of the company and potential investors that, based on the preliminary assessment on the unaudited consolidated management accounts, the 2018 full year earnings of the Group are expected to decrease by more than 25 per cent compared with the year ended 31 December 2017,” Bamburi said in statement. The other five firms which have issued a profit warning this year include Housing Finance Group, Kenya Power, Deacons, Sameer Africa and Sanlam. Kenya Power attributed its profit warning to depressed economic environment, poor hydrological conditions in 2017 and the protracted electioneering period Housing Finance blamed the poor performance on slow property transactions and the capping of interest rates, while Deacons East Africa blamed non-performance of its anchor tenants. The fashion dealer had most of its shops in malls which experienced reduced business due to the closure of Nakumatt (now under administration) and Uchumi which were the anchor tenants. Sameer Africa linked its profit warning to stock shortages caused by production challenges faced by some of its offshore partners. While the six issued profit warnings, at least four of the listed firms delayed releasing financial results missing the deadlines.  The four include Mumias Sugar, Kenya Power, East Africa Portland Cement and Uchumi Supermarket. ARM Cement and Deacons East Africa were put under administration during the year due to financial distress. Financial service provider Sanlam linked its warning to the general impact of slower economic growth and interest rate capping effects. Kenya capped commercial lending rates at four per cent above the Central Bank Rate (CBR) in 2016. Banks are currently lending at not more than 13 per cent. According to the World Bank the rate cap has tightened liquidity flow to small businesses that drive the economy. The Bank projects that Kenya’s economy will grow 5.7 per cent this year up from 4.9 per cent last year.