Travelling on a long haul flight can be uncomfortable at the best of times, with complete strangers around you taking up more room than they should, snoring or even kicking the back of your chair. But a group of flight attendants have shared some of the more disturbing things they've witnessed passengers do on a carrier - and it makes any of those slight irritations look easy to deal with. In a Quora thread, more than one attendant admitted to seeing a man or a woman initiating an explicit sex act mid-service. 'I'm a former flight attendant but I once had a pax (passenger) give her husband a hand job on an evening flight,' one person explained. Cabin lights were off but they had their overhead light on and I was disturbed.' Others admitted to seeing people try to masturbate behind magazines - or more openly - to attract the attention of others. One man admitted to witnessing a passenger almost 'drop his pants' and ask another attendant to 'help him'. Another stewardess remembered putting down a meal for a sleeping passenger, only for that same person to ask for food later on. 'I was giving out breakfast two hours before landing on a night flight,' she said. 'A lot of passengers were sleeping. When they do, and if I can drop the table, I will and put their breakfast tray on it. Otherwise I would go back and forth for ages as passengers slowly wake up one after the other. 'So anyway, after breakfast I was picking up the empty tray, when this one passenger asked me for his breakfast. I did put his breakfast on his table, but the guy sitting near him just ate it. I couldn't believe it! He ate his breakfast and the one belonging to his seat mate!'. On a flight from Rome to Melbourne two parents fell asleep and let their three children run wild. One of them had an almost 'overflowing' nappy. And while the cabin crew in business class, where they were seated, couldn't do much about it, when the child ran into first class, a hostess promptly returned the child and asked for the nappy to be changed. But most shockingly of all was a story relayed by a cabin attendant who worked during the 1970s, who once had an extra passenger on board a flight to New York. Passengers of that time would often bring large valet bags which were stored in the closet of the airliner. 'These were generally by design a heavy bag to store,' the ex-steward explained. 'In this case the contents of the bag were not discovered until we lowered the closet upon landing and discovered we had a passenger that was not on the manifest but the truely disturbing part was that the passenger was not alive. 'Apparently they wanted to bury granny in New York.' Click here for the latest political news