Kenya’s Big Four agenda on Wednesday received fresh support from 17 countries whose envoys presented their credentials to President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi. The incoming envoys were Sierra Leone’s High Commissioner Peter Joseph Francis, High Commissioner Lisa Stadelbauer of Canada, Egyptian Ambassador Khaled el Abyad, Ambassador Gariballa Khidir Eldaw of Sudan, Ambassador Hazem Shabat of Palestine, Ambassador Hatem Landoulsi of Tunisia, Ambassador Andrii Pravendnyk of Ukraine, High Commissioner Rahul Chhabra of India and Ambassador Choi Yeonghan of Korea. Others were Ambassadors Madina Kassamba of Burkina Faso, Mohamoud Ahmed Nur of Somalia, High Commissioners Richard Masozera of Rwanda, David Pierre of Seychelles, Ambassadors Zakariaou Maiga of Niger, Timothee Odjo of Benin, Dharmraj Busgeeth of Mauritius and Gaoussou Toure of Guinea. President Kenyatta welcomed the envoys and assured them of his government’s commitment to working closely with them to boost cooperation between Kenya and their respective countries. “Welcome to Kenya. I look forward to working with you for the mutual benefit of the people of Kenya and those of your respective countries,” President Kenyatta said. Stadelbauer affirmed her country’s support to Kenya’s transformative work that entails securing prosperity and inclusion for all Kenyans under the Big 4 Agenda. “We will continue to support development initiatives that ensure Kenyans have access to quality basic education and the skills training they need to achieve the Big 4 agenda so as to enable them play an active role in the economic growth of their country,” the Canadian High Commissioner said. She applauded Kenya’s contribution to regional peace and security, both as a mediator and as troop contributor. Presenting his credentials, Ukrainian Ambassador Pravednyk said his country was keen to explore areas of cooperation that would be complaint with his government’s goals and Kenya’s Big 4 Agenda, specifically in trade and economy, agriculture and machinery, health and education. Pravednyk assured President Kenyatta of Ukraine’s support for Kenya’s candidature to the UN Security Council for the 2012-2022 period. Chhabra said the mutually beneficial cooperation between India and Kenya, especially in the implementation of Kenya's Big Four agenda priority areas of food security, manufacturing, affordable housing and universal health coverage will continue to expand. “India and Kenya have had a very special relationship. Our friendship is a time-tested bond, built on foundations of shared values and shared experiences,” the incoming Indian High Commissioner said. On his part, Korean Ambassador Choi assured President Kenyatta that Korea will fully support the achievement of Big 4 Agenda. “I would like to assure you, once again, of the commitment of the Korean government to contribute to the achievement of your vision and efforts for Kenya’s development. Korea will continue to be Kenya’s close partner to fully realise the great potential this country has,” Ambassador Choi said. The incoming envoys also congratulated President Kenyatta for successfully hosting the historic global Sustainable Blue Economy Conference. Present during the credential presentation ceremony were Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amb Monica Juma and Principal Secretary Amb Macharia Kamau among other senior government officials. Click here for the latest political news