Despite failing to get pocket money and fees in good time from her parents, Mercy Lochii, 18, still worked hard to be top student in Turkana county. She scored an A- (minus) in this year's KCSE examination, a grade she says came as a result of not only her discipline and hard work but because she was never sent home for fees. Turkana Girls' School administrators led by Principal Florence Nabwire took her in and ensured she never left the school whenever students were sent home for fees. Lochii said teacher Nabwire believed in her and could not let her disrupt her studies. The teacher, for her part, said she knew Lochii would score good grades in KCSE examination. "I have been very close to her because I understand and know very well her potential. Definitely she has made it and made us proud," Nabwire said. She said Turkana Girls has improved in its performance this year as 54 students out of 119 surpassed the university entry mark. Lochii hails from Lokook village in Turkana South. Her peasant parents have no formal employment. "I was not shocked that I scored highly to top in Turkana county," the youngster says. She says her dream of studying medicine at the University of Nairobi will come true having attained 76 points in the exam. Lochii got an A in Mathematics, B+ (Kiswahili), A (Business studies), A (Christian Religious Studies), B+ (Physics), B (English), B (Biology), and A- (Chemistry). "I committed myself and worked hard in class since I believe education is the only way out of poverty in our family and entire Turkana county." Lochii adds that she had to extend her morning and night preps to revise. "I wasn't deterred despite the fact that my parents didn't manage to provide my basic needs such as pocket money and paying school fees on time," she said. The learner thanked her teachers, parents, friends for the assistance they extended to her during the 4-year secondary school course. "I am happy that despite many storms and struggles, I managed to get what I have been praying for." Also see: With A- in KCSE, Martin Khafafa's son Adrian literally aims for the sky Click here for the latest political news