Taxpayers have lost billions in oil leak compensation, the Petroleum and Mining ministry revealed yesterday. “It’s true oil marketers have been receiving more in compensation way above the actual leaks. Last year, however, we started paying them based on the actual leaks that we average at 0.1 per cent,” Energy Regulation Commission director general Pavel Oimeke told the House team. This revelation came in the wake of an investigation into the Kenya Pipeline Company scandal. The firm said it lost 11.6 million litres in oil leaks in one year. This was estimated at Sh1.1 billion. The committee, chaired by Nyeri senator Ephraim Maina, demanded swift installation of oil leak detectors on the pipeline. “Oil leak detectors should be installed on the pipeline immediately to prevent a human and environmental crisis as witnessed in Mukuru some years ago,” Maina said. On Monday, KPC managing director Joe Sang and other officials from the company denied three counts relating to the loss of Sh1.9 billion in the construction of the Kisumu Oil Jetty. They were released on bond. Sang and other four officials were arrested on Friday last week and questioned over various scandals at the corporation, including the Kisumu Oil Jetty project and the loss of millions of litres of oil under questionable circumstances. Last week, the KPC Board gave oil marketers until December 31 to conduct a forensic audit to ascertain the actual amount of oil that leaked. A KPC engineer who accompanied Munyes yesterday said the loss of 11.6 million litres was within Kenya’s allowable limit of 0.1 per cent. Narok senator Ledama Ole Kina demanded to know how much the country had lost. “If 11.6 million litres estimated to be Sh1.1 billion is within 0.1 per cent allowable limit, how much have Kenyans been paying at 0.25 per cent? Why did you allow this looting until last year?” Ole Kina asked. His Kericho counterpart Aaron Cheruiyot asked the ministry to tabulate the billions the government may have paid oil marketers for non-existent oil leaks for all years up to last year. Munyes, however, defended the move to compensate oil marketers based on the 0.25 per cent allowable limit, saying it was the acceptable standard globally. “We noticed this disparity. That’s why we adopted the current procedure where we compensate for actual oil leaks and not based on international base of 0.25 per cent,” he said. He assured the legislators that the ministry will instal oil leak detectors on pipelines to avert confusion in future. Munyes also defended KPC officials who were arraigned on Monday to answer to abuse of office charges regarding the Kisumu Oil Jetty Project. Munyes dismissed the three counts relating to the loss of Sh1.9 billion in the construction of the Kisumu Oil Jetty. Every process was aboveboard, he said. He explained that although the project was to cost about Sh1.4 billion, the tender issued varied it to Sh1.7 billion, which was paid in two financial years. “The total tender was Sh1.7 billion but rose to Sh1.9 billion when tax was added. Nothing fishy was there, everything was approved by the board and Treasury,” Munyes said.