Fresh from advancing to the next round of the Caf Champions League, Gor Mahia will launch their SportPesa Premier League title defence against last season’s runners up Bandari today at Mbaraki Stadium, Mombasa. Gor, who jetted in on Thursday from Malawi, are hoping to begin their quest to the 18th league title on a winning note against the dockers, who halted their unbeaten run last season. The two clubs boast of having arguably the best pre-season ever with the dockers fresh from Zanzibar tour and Gor having played Everton in a friendly in Liverpool. The two will put each other’s title credentials to test in the opener. Gor are expected to field majority of the players who did not fly to Malawi for the return match while Bandari head coach Bernard Mwalala is likely to hand the duo of Mustapha Oduor and Brian Otieno their debuts for Bandari. Today returnees KCB and Western Stima will restart life at the top flight when they play Kakamega Homeboyz and Posta Rangers respectively. The bankers returned to the elite league after three years in the cold and travel to Kakamega to play Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium while Stima, who had to spend last season in the lower tier, will be at Afraha Stadium to play the mailmen. 2008 league champions Mathare United, who completed the signing of three new players on Thursday play host to Chemelil Sugar at Kasarani. Mathare reunited with former Kenyan international Kevin Kimani before raiding Thika for the services of fast-rising James Kinyanjui. The club further lured former Laiser Hill Academy star Arnold Onyango to their side. On Sunday, newly constituted Mt. Kenya United tackle 2009 champions Sofapaka at Machakos Stadium in a televised match which will later pave way for 12-time and coach-less AFC Leopards who are bound to launch their bid to end their two decade league title drought against a high flying Kariobangi Sharks. A revamped Tusker will travel to Awendo accost 2006 champions Sony Sugar while former champions Ulinzi Stars play Vihiga United at Mumias Sports Complex.