Women judges want special courts set up to handle gender-based violence cases. The Kenya Women Judges Association, led by justices Hannah Okwengu and Jessie Lessit, said such courts will fast-track disposition of GBV cases. They spoke in day-two of a regional conference on creating partnerships and combating systemic impunity towards GBV on Saturday. The conference started on Friday. It brought together representatives of associations of women judges, magistrates and prosecutors from Kenya, Liberia, Uganda, Tanzania, South Sudan, Somalia and Zambia. The judicial officials shared experiences to improve proper adjudication of GBV cases.  Uganda has established 13 courts to handle GBV cases only. Read: Women judges want special courts for rape and SGBV Lessit said there should be stronger linkages and coordination to protect survivors of gender violence. Lessit recommended the police service should recruit additional police doctors who can complete P3 forms within a reasonable period of time and be sensitive to gender violence survivors. Open days As a strategy, the judge said, gender desks present an opportunity for improved service provision for GBV survivors. “It should be properly resourced and the officers who manage them should be of a specified rank with specialised training on handling gender crimes,” Lessit said. The judge said there should be a change in the law to decriminalise adolescent sex and have court open-days as a platform for conversation with the community on gender issues. There are strict punishments for offences committed under the Sexual Offences Act 2006. There are also sentences and punishments for offences under the Prohibition of Female Genital Mutilation Act 2011. The provisions under the Protection Against Domestic Violence Act 2015 in regard to protection orders and compensation are progressive. Additionally, the Children’s Act 2001 provides for protective institutions and orders to assist child victims of violence. More: Rising cases of murder blamed on moral decay Click here for
the latest political news