Title: Good Thing Artiste: Leon Bridges Genre: R&B/ Soul Release: May 4  American soul singer, songwriter and record producer Todd Michael "Leon" Bridges can now sit back and luxuriate in the delight that comes with his nomination for the 61st Grammy Awards. He played his part, offered a spectacular performance on his 2018 project and for the third time has been considered for the most coveted annual award ceremony in the music industry. In 2016, he was nominated for Best R&B album in the Grammys with his debut record Coming Home. In 2017, he managed to grab yet another nomination for Best Music Video with River, which is off his first album. Now he has received two nominations: Best Traditional R&B Performance for Bet Ain’t Worth the Hand, a track from his second album, and Good Thing, which received a nomination for Best R&B Album. Good Thing is a pleasant, smooth listen that thrives on its own chops, an indication the artist is not held back. You might not be too quick to give your attention to Leon's music. You might look at his neatly cut hair, sense of style and classical R&B vibe and think to yourself: Is he worth listening to? Isn't he just one of those weird-sounding acts who make eclectic music that never makes it to radio? Leon Bridges has never veered off the traditional soul sound and Good Thing exhibits his potential superbly. He kicks off the 10-track project with the lead single Bet Ain't Worth the Hand, which was released the same time as the second track Bad Bad News. The tracks highlight the artiste as one who is not ready to commit to his lover and as one who has made the best of himself, despite the challenges presented. Leon is at his best on Shy, a track that details his love for a reserved girl; a message that also prevails on Beyond. On Forgive You, Leon expresses that he forgives his lover who hurt him despite it being very difficult. With zero features, Leon effortlessly delivers outright jams like Lions, You Don't Know and Mrs.. Leon closes out the LP with the jazzy and soulful Georgia to Texas, which showcases one of the most frictionless tunes on the project. Leon shares some of the qualities that truly make a great artist. Hardly does he come off as uninteresting since he releases an album full of stickier jams and his brilliance offsets his modest personality. Good Thing, as the title suggests is indeed a good compilation and you can bet on it at your own peril.  Star rating: 4 out of 5