Several children homes in Nairobi county are set to benefit from Governor Mike Sonko's Christmas donations. Hundreds of donors have flocked to City Hall to donate funds to Sonko's Christmas kitty to help the governor in delivering his promise of helping the needy children this festive season. Among the donors are Kenya Charity Sweepstake, The Hilton Hotel, and Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company. Others are Nairobi Bottlers, National Bank of Kenya, and Agriculture Society of Kenya among others. In a statement, Sonko said it is good to put a smile on the faces of the less privileged people in the society. "We want every person in Nairobi, even the less privileged people in the society to enjoy this festive season." Sonko said he wants in which Nairobi city county will sustain the programme so that destitute children get the donations every year. "I have been helping people throughout my life. I do not want this to be a one-off thing. I want it to be sustained for many years to come even after leaving Nairobi government," he said on Saturday. At the same time, he urged Nairobians to live together as families and enjoy this festive season peacefully. According to Sonko, "calling for a family gathering this festive season does not mean that other people are less privileged, but it means building stronger family ties." Quoting renowned Nigerian author Chinua Achebe, Sonko said: "a man who calls his family and friends to a feast, does not do it to save them from hunger because they all have food in their own home." "When we gather at the village in the moonlight, it is not because of the moon. Every man can see it in his own compound, we meet because it's good to do it," he quoted further. He added: "So let's continue with team spirit and take advantage of the holidays and meet and enjoy each other's company regardless of our differences. If we smile together, it is not because we do not have problems, but because we are stronger than the problems." Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company acting Managing Director Nahashon Muguna said as a company they are happy to be part of giving back to the society. "It is not that we are so privileged than the others, but because we also wish to celebrate with others. That is why we have joined hands with Governor Sonko to donate goodies to children home this Christmas," Muguna said. Click here for the latest political news