A second Canadian has been detained in China on accusations of harming national security, as tension continues between the two countries. It was confirmed on Thursday that Michael Spavor, a businessman, had been detained in addition to former diplomat Michael Kovrig. Canada drew Chinese protests after it arrested an executive at telecoms giant Huawei at the request of the US. Meng Wanzhou has been bailed but may face extradition for fraud. Read: Huawei finance chief arrested in Canada She denies violating US sanctions on Iran through Huawei's business dealings. China has threatened unspecified consequences if she is not released. So high-profile is the case that US President Donald Trump said he could intervene if it helped to avoid a further decline in relations between the US and China, which are locked in a trade war. However, Trump's own officials frowned on the idea, with US Assistant Attorney General John Demers remarking: "What we do at the Justice Department is law enforcement. We don't do trade."  Who are the two Canadians? Michael Spavor is a businessman based in Dandong, near the Chinese border with North Korea. He has ties to the North Korean government and has met its leader Kim Jong-un many times. Ex-diplomat Michael Kovrig currently works for a think tank, the International Crisis Group (ICG), which has said it is concerned for his health and safety. He is being held officially "on suspicion of engaging in activities that harm China's state security". However, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesman, Lu Kang, suggested another reason, saying the ICG had not been registered as a non-governmental organisation (NGO) in China and therefore it was unlawful for its staff to work there. Checks by Reuters news agency did not turn up a registration for ICG on government databases for NGOs or social enterprises. Canadian Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland has said Kovrig's case was raised directly with Chinese officials.  What happened to Michael Spavor? Canadian foreign ministry spokesman Guillaume Bérubé confirmed that Spavor had contacted them earlier in the week because "he was being asked questions by Chinese authorities". One of his last Facebook posts, on Sunday, said he was about to travel to Seoul in South Korea but he did not arrive on Monday as planned. Spavor runs an organisation called Paektu Cultural Exchange, which organises business, culture and tourism trips to North Korea. He is a regular visitor to North Korea and regularly comments in the media on Korean issues. He is particularly well known for helping to arrange the visit by former NBA star Dennis Rodman to North Korea in 2013. Rodman is a personal friend of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Click here for the latest political news