Hellen Mtawali is popular in Kenyan music circles as a voice trainer and performer. She's also a music lecturer and works in the marketing department of Daystar University - a position she has held for over two decades now. During her early years as a lecturer, Mtawali was also a backup artist for gospel music couple the Kassangas in the 1990s. She developed a keen eye for nurturing musicians, dancers and instrumentalists. That's how Afrizo Band was born in the mid-1990s. "The band does African gospel tunes. We sing and dance to our own composition or adaptations of music for various audiences," Mtawali during the 20th anniversary dinner last weekend in Nairobi. Having begun with a handful of interested, but tone-deaf students, Mtawali had a difficult task of sharpening their voices and training some to play musical instruments. The band is entrusted with all campus entertainment music. Among the band's biggest annual performances is the graduation ceremony that is held at the Athi River Campus. It takes over half a year to compose theme songs for the day and train Afrizo members for a sterling turn out on the big day, Mtawali said. It's out of these performances that in 2007 Afrizo started touring the USA for fundraising functions. They went nearly all states as they reached out to churches to convince people to donate to the university's needy students. Afrizo's alumni list has a varied mix of Kenyans, including some whose music careers have now gone full throttle. They include media personalities, social workers and politicians. Mtawali said MP Naisula Lesuuda, musicians Mercy Masika, Joel Maluki whose leading worship concerts around the world, Lenah Adhiambo, Naema Murundi, Helma Nyawira and Ruth Matete are among them. A number are in the media including Brian Aseli of KTN, Sarah Okuoro KTN, Selly Amutabi Citizen and Claire Wamalwa who is doing PR. Last Saturday, band members met for a white themed dinner to bond and award long-serving band members. "We sang and danced to Afrizo oldies and had a warm laughter-filled evening with our guests among the Star Williams from the US," Mtawali said. Afrizo Band has started a performance school to train more singers. Four graduates were awarded on Saturday. Mtawali will be chairing the judges in the "I Can Sing" competition airing on KTN. Her fans can look out for her to enjoy her mentoring and tough adjudication skills.