Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga' daughter Winnie has praised radio queen Adelle Onyango for the tremendous job she has done for young people. Adelle launched a foundation called 'Unapologetically African' yesterday. It will tackle youth empowerment, mental health and gender equality. "Adelle is someone I have seen going through tremendous hardship in the past and managed to overcome them," Winnie said. "When she reached out to me, I immediately accepted the call because of the woman she has become. Adelle's initiative is a great one, because it will offer service to humanity and positively affect our community, take the vulnerable from the predators and [address] mental health. This gives me satisfaction because we can put together in our own small ways to make something happen. I hope someone will see this and put a smile on someone else's face today." Winnie is a trustee of the initiative together with other high-ranking personalities such as Kennedy Odede, the founder of SHOFCO, Katie Harisson and Erin Thorton, co-founders of HIVE, and Valerie Sambu, media manager at WPP-Scangroup. Adelle said: "'Unapologetically African' means embracing our heritage without offering excuses or explaining where we come from and why we do things the way we do. It also means appreciating the customs and traditions that exist in the African context and being confident in finding our own way and our own solution although it may not be the rest of the world's remedies." Shaffie Weru said the initiative will help people understand Africans. "Many people have an idea about us but they can never speak about Africa because they were neither born in Africa nor have they ever been to Africa and that is why I am 'Unapologetically African," he said. Adelle Onyango has gained international recognition for her efforts to empower Kenyan women and youth, most recently serving on the Youth Advisory Board for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation’s second annual Goalkeepers conference in New York.