Once
upon a time, there was an itinerant preacher called Rabbi Haim of Romshishok. During
one of his teachings, he narrated to his audience of his visit to the firmaments
where he saw two doors, one written Hell and the other Heaven. His curiosity
led him to first open the one written Hell. What confounded him was the
unexpected sight on multiple tables, of the most mouth-watering and scrumptious
food that appeared fit for a king, and which filled the air with an exquisite
aroma. On
each table were several diners who held spoons in their hands. However, what
bewildered him was the emaciated and sickly condition the diners were. Upon
closer inspection, he realised that though they were able to scoop the food
from the huge pot on the table, they could not feed themselves because the
spoons were longer than their arms. He also noticed that each diner’s elbow was
tied with a slat of wood that made it impossible for him or her to fold their
arms to feed. In spite of the close proximity of abundance, the diners were
starving and moaning with hunger. Unable to stand the sight any longer, he ran
out of Hell and quickly opened the door written Heaven. To
his surprise, the same scene confronted him. But what baffled him is that
unlike the diners in Hell, the ones in Heaven were well nourished, contented
and sated from the abundance before them. Leaning closer, he realised the
difference was that unlike in Hell where the diners were struggling to feed
themselves, the diners in Heaven sat across each other, dipped the long spoon
in the pot, and instead of trying to feed themselves, they fed the person
sitting across them. This
week an unfamiliar occurrence took place. President Uhuru Kenyatta was fed and
feted by Raila Odinga. We have heard stories of how the two were family
friends, so the feast should not have been surprising. But the converse
obtains. They have been political competitors whose rivalry reached its peak in
last year’s presidential elections. Then unexpectedly, earlier this year, appeared
to have rekindled their friendship, which they personified in a handshake. And
from there, it has been all hugs, kisses and breaking bread together. Many
analysts have tried to unravel the Uhuru-Raila handshake that paved way for the
Nyanza visit. Some have postulated that it is intended to sculpt the 2022
succession politics, others have posited that it is intended to help President
Kenyatta achieve his Big Four legacy, while yet others have sanitised it as the
President’s promise to unite the nation. And until the two candidly divulge
their intention, it is anyone’s guess. This
is why I am persuaded to throw my hat into the ring of guesses. And my hypothesis
is that the two, like the rest of us, were inhabiting a part of Kenya called
Hell, where there is an abundance of resources, opportunities, potential,
diversity and latitude. Everything was within reach for both, but despite it
all, they were getting emaciated, sickly and daily moaned in public of their
deprivation. And all because their spoons were longer than their arms and their
elbows were tied with swats of wood that would not allow them to feed
themselves. The swats of wood can be likened to the mtu wetu malaise that has become a millstone around our necks. Suddenly,
they had an epiphany and acknowledged to themselves that they will waste away
amidst plenty that is within their grasp. They thus chose to feed each other
rather than feed themselves. And just like that, the handshake happened. Feeding
each other is an art that the political class has perfected to a tee. Since the
handshake, there have been harmonious calls for a referendum; swapping of
political positions of Prime Minister in exchange for reciprocal support for
the presidency; bi-partisan support for the increase of MPs remuneration and
benefits; conferring of presidential honour awards to hitherto very unlikely
recipients; and nomination to high profile roles such as peace envoys to
previously perceived adversaries.  And
the rest of us have watched in incredulity as the political class satiate each
other to their heart’s content, while we continue to wallow in want, tribalism
and political affiliations. If
we cannot learn from the political class recreation of Rabbi Haims Heaven, then
hopefully we can learn from the beauty of the free market economy. Allow me to
illustrate. Imagine
you are one of the best lawyers in the land. Your hourly fee is $500. You are
also one of the fastest typists in the region. The theory of social cooperation
dictates that it is in your interest to hire a typist even though they may be
slower than you. This is because, for every hour you spend typing rather than
practicing law, it will cost you $500 minus what you will pay a typist. Ultimately,
you both benefit from cooperating. It
is interesting to note that the political class did not require a task force to
seduce them into cooperation or feeding each other; yet they deem it fit to
saddle us with one called the Building Bridges Initiative in a bid to cajole us
to cooperate with each other. Adam
Smith christened social cooperation as ‘the invisible hand.’ It elucidates how
wealth is created by motivating people concerned with their own interests, to
behave in ways that best serve the interests of others. This means that while
pursuing your needs, you use your means to cooperate with those that have what
you need. Whether your goal is wealth accumulation, peace, protecting the
environment or helping the needy, your success is assured if you enlist the
cooperation of others. I,
therefore, submit that it is very impolitic of us to continue allowing our
gluttony, selfishness and shortsightedness to enslave us in Hell, surrounded by
abundance yet unable to partake of it, while our political class prescribe to
us panaceas which themselves are unwilling to ingest. Finally,
my unsolicited advice to us all is that the owl of Minerva spreads its wings
only with the falling of the dusk. Likewise, human beings tragically come to
understand things fully only when it is too late. Do not let this be our fate. So
why don’t you feed your neighbour this Christmas? They might just feed you in
the New Year in return. Merry
Christmas to all my readers and thank you for your inspiration.  First, they ignore you; then they laugh at you;
then they fight you; then you win – Mahatma Gandhi 