Deputy President William Ruto wants maize farmers in Rift Valley and Western to diversify, saying it will solve problems of low prices. Ruto said on Saturday, “We are not telling farmers to abandon maize altogether. We are just rooting for diversification because maize farming is no longer profitable” the DP said. He recommended French beans, other beans, vegetables, passion fruit, avocados, tea, coffee, and macadamia nuts, among other crops. Maize farmers have been demotivated by low prices due to liberalisation of the sector. “Farmers must diversify instead of relying on maize alone,” he said. Addressing Trans Nzoia MCAs and the Kalenjin Myoot Council of Elders at his Sugoi home, the Deputy President asked the leaders to educate farmers on the importance of crop diversification. On Friday, the DP also met MCAs from Kakamega, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties, led by their assembly speakers — Farouk Machanje, Kiplagat Sabulei and David Kerich, respectively. The DP said diversification does not mean abandoning maize but adding profitable crops to cushion the fluctuating maize prices. “Some leaders are not being honest about diversification and should tell farmers the truth,” Ruto said. Present were governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) and Patrick Khaemba(Trans Nzoia), MPs Janet Sitienei (Turbo) and Caleb Kositany (Soy), Council of Elders chairman (Rtd) Major John Seii and Trans Nzoia Woman Representative Janet Nangobo. “By crop diversification, we will avoid the maize poverty trap when there’s prolonged drought,” Ruto said. “In such cases, maize fails, leaving farmers insecure,” he added. Research in Kenya by agricultural experts has shown crop diversification provides smallholder farmers with a varied, nutritious diet, improves income and food security. Ruto said in the North Rift region, for example, two million bags of maize were produced annually, compared to 45 million bags of maize countrywide. The region remains poor. Governor Mandago said his administration is educating maize farmers on the importance of diversification. “We have launched awareness campaigns on the need for crop diversification instead of relying on maize alone, which is no longer profitable,” he said. Governor Khaemba said, “I started diversification four years ago with crops including tea and coffee. The Deputy President knows there is future in avocado farming and we need to heed his advice.” Many investors are ready to help in crop diversification, Khaemba said. Council of Elders chairman Seii said he would lead elders to encourage growing a variety of crops. “We know why it’s important for us to diversify, but our leaders have not come out clearly on this because some of politicised it,” the chairman said. Sabulei said Elgeyo Marakwet residents were ready to diversify crops to improve their lives. “We county leaders have resolved to work together to promote diversification,” he said. Farmers are demoralised. Sh2,300 price for a 90kg bag of maize declared by the government has left North Rift farmers contemplating abandoning the country’s staple grain. This move could strain Kenya’s ability to feed herself. They say the lack of subsidies, false promises by the national government and unscrupulous traders have conspired against farmers. They continue to incur losses as a result of high product prices. Click here for the latest political news 