Greg Snow is looking forward to the remaining two rounds of Safari Tour Golf with lots of expectations. The Muthaiga Golf Club pro believes his current form is a good indicator ahead of the forthcoming Kenya Open, which makes its debut on the European Tour. Snow maintained his excellent form at the Thika Greens round of the Safari series, thanks to a final round score of 2-under par 70, to win the tournament with a total of 5-under par 283 gross. “I am very pleased with my performance this week. The course has been tough and the conditions been very difficult with the wind picking up; making this the most testing leg on the Safari Tour so far. I started off with a slow start but picked up form along the way and I am delighted to have attained this milestone,” said Snow who played a decent first nine, sinking a birdie at the Par-5 second to make good for the dropped shot at the Par-4 seventh. On the back nine, he found birdies on the Par-4 10th, Par-5 13th and Par-4 15th; only dropping a shot at the Par-4 12th. Greg extended his overall lead on the Road to the 2019 Kenya Open ranking; having picked up maximum points over the last three Safari Tour events. For his efforts, Indiza took home Sh150,000. Long-hitting Dismas Indiza returned an equally impressive score of 2-under par 70 for a tournament total of 1-under par 287 to finish second overall. He started his final round with consecutive birdies at the Par-4 first and Par-5 second; only dropping one shot on the first nine at the Par-5 fourth. On the back nine, he found birdies at the Par-4 12th and Par-5 18th with his only dropped shot here coming at the par-4 16th. Indiza, who took home Sh100,000 said: “The course has been decent, though long leading to a lot of player fatigue. But overall, it has been a very good outing for me. I would say the Safari Tour Golf series has been helpful to us as Kenyan pros as I can confidently say that our form, individually and collectively, is improving from tournament to tournament. I, however, need to work on my game to improve my chances of winning a Safari Tour event.” Professional Golfers of Kenya captain CJ Wangai returned an excellent final round score of 3-under par 69 (the best for the round) for a tournament total of Level-par 288; tied for third place overall, alongside Njuguna Ngugi and Simon Ngige. For clinching third place at the tournament, Wangai, Ngugi and Ngige all took home Sh55,625. Wangai said: “I think we stand a better chance of having a Kenyan winning the 2019 Kenya Open as a result of the experience that we have all gotten through the Safari Tour. The tour is keeping us busy— like never before, making the pros go back to the range to work hard on our form. We therefore stand a better chance of challenging the top players from around the world who will be coming for the Kenya Open.” The 6- leg Tour which started off at Nyali Club resumes next year with two Safari Tour events programmed to take place, before the 2019 Kenya Open at Muthaiga and Karen.