The fate of Kenya Simbas coaches, Ian Snook and Murray Roulston, hangs in balance following an unsuccessful World Cup qualifying campaign in Marseille, France last month. Snook and Roulston’s contracts expire in April next year but according to Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela, the duo may not be retained if the expected funding from the government fails to come through. “It’s been a very tough year for us at the union and we are paying them a lot of money in terms of salaries. If we don’t get funding, then we will have no choice but to discontinue our engagement with the two and look elsewhere,” said Omwela. The duo, who returned to New Zealand last week, were hired last year to replace long-serving South African coach Jerome Paarwater in the quest for a maiden Rugby World Cup appearance. Kenya failed to qualify for the sport’s biggest bonanza set for next year in Japan, losing all three matches to Canada (65-19), Germany (43-6) and Hong Kong (42-17). However, Omwela observed that if the Sports Fund is operationalised soon, then they may be able to keep the highly experienced coaches. “If the Sports Fund starts operations soon, we can consider keeping them since we will be assured of money to foot their salaries and other expenses,” noted Omwela. He added that focus now shifts to next year’s Africa Gold Cup matches with the aim of winning the continental title for the second time since 2013, in addition to playing quality international test matches. “Our focus will be on the Africa Gold Cup as we seek to get closer to Namibia. We have played second fiddle to the Namibians for the last two years and we must look for a way to beat them next year,” added Omwela. He also revealed that they will appoint a new Kenya Sevens strength and conditioning coach as soon as possible following the resignation of Geoffrey Kimani. Kimani had accepted the appointment in early October but made a U-turn three weeks ago, saying he wants to take a sabbatical from the sport. “We will follow up on the other candidates as per the rankings in the shortlist in the next couple of weeks,” said Omwela.