Despite the government subsidising secondary school education and lowering fees for Technical and Vocational Education Training institutions, access to education remains an uphill task for many pupils in Kitui county. It is a problem area leaders are trying to resolve. Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai spoke to the Star on the challenges of access to secondary and tertiary education in his constituency and the solution he came up with. Q: Why has the access to secondary and tertiary education been limited? Most people here are peasant farmers with no employment or steady source of income. Therefore, the Sh40,535-53,554 charged in secondary schools is still very high and out of reach for the majority. That is why the transition from primary to secondary school is very low. You find that out of 16 candidates who sit KCPE exam in a particular school, only four join secondary. The other 12 will get lost somewhere in the village. These are the students we are targeting with the initiative of empowering day schools and asking parents to bring their children to these affordable schools. Most prefer boarding schools, where charges are very high, and by the time their children sit KCSE, most of their parents have sold everything, including livestock and land, and have nothing to take them with to college for a certificate or diploma course. We need to save money so we can acquire post-secondary education, and this money is being spent on the prestigious boarding schools unnecessarily looking for the same results. Today you need tertiary training to get employed because the KCSE certificate has no basis in the labour market. So you have a person who cannot use their education to help themselves after their parents sold everything to take them to secondary school. They get married and others are hired as boda boda riders and continue living below the poverty line. That is something all the players - the government, parents, school management and elected leaders, have to work on. This can only be solved by increasing the day schools, which are affordable to many. Therefore, we turn our horns to the Ministry of Education, where you find the ministry pumping Sh15 million to a national school instead of giving 15 day schools Sh1 million each. Why give money for construction of a three-storey dormitory in a national school, which already has dormitories, when there is a neighbouring day school that lacks one? We need to invest in day schools that benefit majority of the parents instead of boarding schools. What are you doing to change the situation? The cure to this is to get affordable education for our kids by building day secondary schools and improving education standards in the existing ones. We need to take advantage of the government's support through free secondary education, having in mind that there is a reason why parents don't want to take their children to these day secondary schools. We are told the average mean score for boarding schools is four percent, while that of most of day’s schools is 2.7. That tells you the standard of education in day schools is low, and that is what we should address through staffing and improving facilities. It is very easy because we want to concentrate on classrooms and equipping the laboratories. A school like Nthangathi Girls' Day and boarding can match St Charles Lwanga if it had similar facilities and equal number of teachers. Therefore, it will be good for the Teachers' Service Commission to support this by posting enough teachers in day secondary schools, and that will uplift the quality of education. And since the government is already taking care of the tuition fees, then parents will supplement by paying Sh10,000 per year for students' lunch, then children will access quality education at a very low cost. And the parents will now focus on post-secondary education. If there is a neighbouring school where a parent can pay Sh10,000 per year, why can't we invest in improving facilities in that school and have the learners there excel and go for higher education? That is what will help. We want to do a very serious campaign on educating the parents and students that they have to change their perceptions. How are you doing it, considering most students and their parents have little regard for day secondary schools? Basically the campaign is three-fold. One thing is dealing with the perception of students against day schools. We want to eliminate the attitude that day schools are for teenage girls who get children while in primary school. That kind of thinking has to go. Secondly, one of the things is that the quality of education in day schools is wanting. The schools have challenges from staffing to labs, to classrooms. And the learning environment is not that good and parents don't trust them for such reasons. We don't just tell students and parents to like the schools. The government, through the CDF, should build laboratories and libraries so that the quality of education in that day school is the same as that in Mang'u High School. The only difference between Mang'u and a day school in Kitui East is well-equipped laboratories and libraries, and enough teachers. We are addressing these infrastructure issues as we plead with the TSC to address the understaffing issues. You find a school with only the principal and one teacher as the TSC teachers, and they are teaching all classes from form one to four. So the parents are employing teachers, which is an extra financial burden on parents. And the third is lack of confidence in education in these schools. I'm reminding these parents that most Kenyans went to day schools and excelled in our academics. We all went to day primary schools and passed in KCPE. If you can pass KCPE tests in day primary school, it means you can also pass the KCSE in a day secondary school. Even universities are day. The parents and students have to change the perception that these prestigious schools are offering a different curriculum from what is being offered in the day schools. Knec certificate is equivalent. A grade "B plus" from a prestigious school is equal to a "B plus" in a day school somewhere in the village. Holders of such grades will go to the same universities, and thereafter seek employment with the same employers who see them equally, and face the same world. My cousin is working as an engineer in Botswana and he never went to a boarding school. Has this campaign helped day schools gain acceptance, and how affordable are they? I opened a new day school [Ngaaka Yakwa Secondary] in March, two months after students were admitted to form 1. I pledged to pay the first year's full school fees for all students who will choose the school, and in the first week and I got 45 students from the same sublocation. These are people who never thought of going to secondary schools and had already become dropouts. We were getting some of them from where they were working as herders and most girls were working as house girls in Nairobi and other towns. But they came back home because they heard there is a school in their village and it is free. The transition from class 8 to form 1 is highly affected by the cost of reporting to form 1. Parents are spending at least Sh20,000 to have their children report to form 1, but in day schools, you only need the bag and the exercise books you used in standard eight to go to a day school. That explains the poor transition, and this is rampant, especially in my constituency. I'm working with 68 schools and only 10 of them are boarding, all with a total of about 6,700 students. The boarding schools are carrying the bulk of the students — around 4,200 — while the day schools have 2,500 learners. Therefore, we have more day schools with few student enrolment and few boarding schools with high enrolment. That tells you that parents are still for taking their children to boarding schools, as opposed to day schools. I told the teachers in all the day schools in my constituency to fill the bursary forms for the students in those schools, and I made sure all the students in day schools got not less than Sh5,000 in bursary. Then all the students in boarding schools got Sh2,000 from our bursary kitty of Sh29 million, and I would repeat the same next year. This will get us more transitions from primary to secondary and from secondary to tertiary institutions because parents will have saved. We will have more students joining form 1 and more joining tertiary institutions.