Kenya National Union of Teachers Wilson Sossion scored a big win on Friday as his preferred candidates for the union clinched top seats during the elections at the Bomas of Kenya. Knut confirmed the chairmanship of Wycliffe Omucheyi to head the union until 2021. Omucheyi has been on an acting capacity for the last 19 months following the exit of Mudzo Nzili who retired. The elections involved four regions and sought to fill the posts of chairman, first and second vice-chairman and deputy secretary-general. Despite opposition, Collins Oyuu who was backed by Sossion will be the new union's first vice chair while Rosalia Mkanjala steps in as the second vice-chair. Clement Omollo's victory will see him assume the position of assistant secretary general. The new faces were elected yesterday by 1,887 delegates at the 61st annual delegates conference at Bomas. The position of the first vice-chair had threatened to tear the union's unity giving rise to a push and pull between two fronts in the union national leadership. The division followed the entry of Oyuu- who served as the national assistant secretary general- into the contest a position routinely reserved for Central region. One faction was led by Sossion and supported Oyuu's candidature while the second front lead was led by national treasurer John Matiang'i who supported the candidature of Patrick Karinga. Read: It’s all systems go as teachers elect new Knut officials The rise of Oyuu to the position could see a shift in Knut politics that have for a long time been region based. Sources close to the union leadership yesterday revealed entry of Karinga threatened Sossion's position as the SG as he was viewed to back the decision to oust him from the position for holding two jobs - the union position and also that of nominated MP. Earlier this year, a disagreement ensued over the legality of Sossion's position after he was nominated to parliament by ODM. In yesterday's election, Central region had 217 delegates, Nairobi 44, Coast 140, Eastern 393, North Eastern 21, Nyanza 330, Rift Valley 503, and Western 239. Oyuu yesterday defended expressed confidence in leading the union towards a more productive future. “I thank all delegates who believe in me and came out to show their support. I pledge to steer the union's interest to the best of my ability,” Oyuu told the Star on Friday. Click here for the latest political news