Church leaders from Trans Nzoia county yesterday criticised the Bukusu Council of Elders plan to establish a traditional court to arbitrate cultural disputes. Led by Ferdinand Wanyisia, the leaders said they opposed the court as some cases should be handled by the criminal and civil justice system under the Constitution. The Bukusu elders last week said that they had initiated plans to set up the traditional court in Kitale town. It is to be set up on land donated by management of the Kitale Museum. Trans Nzoia county is expected to meet the construction cost. Wanyisia said that according to Luhya culture, a girl is not entitled to be given land by her father, however, the Constitution says all children are equal in terms of inheritance. He also said that in Bukusu culture, women are not supposed to run for political office. The Constitution provides, however, that anyone can vie if he or she meets requirements. further the two-thirds gender rule states that one gender should not represent more than two-thirds of an elected or appointed public office. “The proposed Bukusu court can be contrary to our judicial system and oppose what we enjoy in the Constitution,” Wanyisia said. But Bukusu Council of Elders chairman Peter Masinde disagreed and said Wanyisia lacked a proper understanding of cultural matters. “He has been always criticising community leaders when it comes to preserving out culture. But our plans to establish the court are at an advanced stage,” Masinde said. He said the court will have jurisdiction over all cases related to disputes such as dowry payment. He said this will help reduce the backlog of cases before the Judiciary. The elders said the court will interpret customary law and ensurecommunity members are aware of the consequences of deserting their tradition. “There are many cultural disputes finding their way into courts of law where judges and magistrates have no knowledge of the Bukusu culture. Hence, their judgments are meaningless,” Masinde said. Samson Some, a Kitale-based law scholar, saidwhat the Bukusu council had suggested is already handled by law courts. “The Constitution and our judicial system take care of our culture and having a traditional court might result in unfair judgments,” Some said. The elders insisted that failure to settle disputes in a cultural way has led to increased “calamities” in the region. “Accidents, infidelity and the lack of unity among leaders are consequences of failing to abide by tradition passed down by our forefathers,” council secretary Kitutu Charles said. The elders have set up a learning centre in the museum to enlighten residents who kow little about their culture due to what they called “civilisation and infiltration by churches”.