 Last week on Sunday,
Somalia awoke to shocking news of an impeachment motion against President
Mohamed Abdullahi Farmaajo by some lawmakers, who accused him of misuse power
and violating the Constitution. Since then, Mogadishu and in particular
high government offices, including the Presidential palace Villa Somalia was very
busy with politicians, senior government officials crisscrossing from one
office to another until late at night trying to resolve the political storm
raised by the impeachment. The lawmakers behind the impeachment blame
Farmaajo for bypassing Parliament and secretly signing over port access and
security cooperation with Ethiopia and Eritrea, meddling with federal states,
among other serious allegations. However, two days later on Tuesday,
Farmaajo got a reprieve after the Administrative Director of the Somalia
parliament Abdikarim Haji Abdi Buuh declared the impeachment motion null and
avoid.  LOCKDOWN His remarks, although welcomed as it
momentarily slowed the ill-intended motion, it however raised eyebrows as to
why the Speaker of Parliament Mohamed Mursal did not make the important
revelation instead of a junior parliamentary staff. Sources indicated that the Speaker's
residence was on a lock down and was a no go zone for lawmakers and politicians
with no one allowed in or out, including the Speaker himself, hours after he
confirmed the impeachment. The government flexed its muscles and is determined
to scatter the impeachment move. Buuh claimed 14 lawmakers out of the
original 90 who signed the impeachment withdrew claiming their signatures were forged.
This meant that the impeachment motion short of the 90 vote as required by law. Protests in favour and against the
impeachment motion took place in Mogadishu and respectively in the Federal
State capitals of Baidoa, Kismayu, Garowe and Adaado. This is common in Somalia
as public protest are often organised and protestors paid to picket.  BLOODY PROTEST Sadly, the protests in Baidoa, which were
in support of the impeachment, ended bloody rowdy after security forces opened
fire killing one protester and injuring three others. Surely, why would
government forces open live bullet on unarmed civilians picketing? Authorities
there must investigate and take the necessary action to avoid such a sad
incident in future. As if to remind the Somalia officials busy
wrangling over power, al Shabaab struck Mogadishu on Monday with
a powerful blast that again sadly claimed innocent lives. This particular
attack could also be politically motivated given its timing. Nothing is impossible
in Somalia because officials have lost morality and care less about their
people. The latest political crisis brought about
by the attempted impeachment motion is now likely to drag on and slow down
crucial development projects and further destabilise security. From past
experiences, government shutdown is imminent whenever a no vote confidence
looms as politics takes centre stage making everything else irrelevant. The only benefactors to such political
crisis are politicians and power brokers. Lawmakers are often the biggest
beneficiaries because this is their harvesting period when they make more money
from bribes. Already, there are reports the government is splashing money to
buy off MPs in a bid to scatter the impeachment. I always wonder where politicians get such
huge amounts of money for bribes in an impoverished country like Somalia. This
in itself is a serious offence that must be curtailed and shamed because it is
corruption.  TOP UP Don't be surprised if you hear those 14 MPs
claiming their signatures were forged were in reality bought off to kill the
motion. There is a joke in Somalia that whenever
you hear lawmakers have brought an impeachment vote it means they are broke and
are seeking bribes. "Fadlan Ku Shubow" which means “Please top up” is
a pre-recorded audio of Somalia mobile phones that urges clients to top up
their airtime before they can make a call. Even in Kenya, you get this prompt
whenever your phone has no airtime credit. This phrase is now compared to lawmakers’
greed who demand authorities to pay up in order to survive such an impeachment
motion however genuine their intention might be for the country. But, let us not brush off the allegations
brought forward by the lawmakers, which are indeed very serious if its true
President Farmaajo did not consult parliament. However, the question is, were his
intentions good for Somalia? Even if not, does it warrant bringing down the
government? This is what politicians must ask themselves.  POWER TUSSLE The latest impeachment attempt is likely
to give impetus to the Federal States, who are at a loggerhead with President
Farmaajo to further push the move to oust the President in order for them to
get a reprieve from the National government's pressure. Whatever the case, Somali lawmakers and
the top government leadership, need to drop their power hunger games and give
the country a break from political uncertainty which is holding back the
country from making meaningful progress. There is no question such political heat
increases divisions and animosity amongst Somali clans and is never good for a
country recovering from years of conflict. Somalia does not need political tensions;
it needs unity amongst its leaders to tackle the many problems the country is
facing.      