Kenya Commercial Bank women’s team have officially put an end to transfer rumours by naming Japheth Munala the new head coach ahead of the next year’s Kenya Volleyball Federation national league. Munala will be deputised by David Kinga. Munala was linked to move to the bankers side few days before the just ended KVF play-offs— a move that was vehemently denied but the chicken have finally come home to roost. The national team coach guided former champions Kenya Pipeline to win back-to-back national titles since 2014 before they surrendered the crown last Monday to their local nemesis Kenya Prisons’. Reached for comment, Munala confirmed the move to KCB. The 50-year-old tactician said the move was basically for the purpose of growth and  new challenge. “It’s true I have moved to KCB. But first of all, I want to really thank my former employers (Pipeline) for the chance they gave me having joined them in 2011 from KCB. They have given me all the support and I remain indebted to them. There is no bad blood between us since I sat with the management and talked about it. There comes a time when you want new experience and challenge and that’s why I have moved to KCB. But who knows what the future holds, I might return to Pipeline if need be,” said Munala. He added: “I’m a national team coach and really every time we have a national duty only two clubs (Pipeline and Prison) contribute players to the team. I think having a third force will definitely bring competition not only to the national team, but also  in the national league.” The tactician denied his influence on some of the Pipeline  players , who have since switched allegiance to KCB, noting that he only influenced upcoming Jemima Siangu. “I have coached her since she was at Soweto Secondary School and I want to mould her to become a good player in future,” he said. He added: “I also believe with three local competitive sides, at least one team will bring home the Africa Club Championship title that has remained elusive since 2012.” KCB also confirmed having signed six other players from Pipeline. They include the recently feted duo Noel Murambi (best receiver) and Leonida Kasaya (best server), alongside left handed Violet Makuto, Christine Njambi, Veronica Kilabat and Truphosa Chepkemei. KCB team patron Judith Odhiambo said the changes are meant to bring in fresh impetus ahead of next year’s competitions.