From the onset, it is an open secret that partnership between the public and
private sectors is a catalyst for increasing investment and project growth in
all major infrastructure sectors — healthcare, economic and in socio-political
spheres. The adoption of Public Private Partnerships fundamentally bridges the financial
gap of the government’s budget constraints through injection of private
capital. President Uhuru Kenyatta has outlined food security, affordable housing,
manufacturing and affordable healthcare as the key delivery pillars of his
administration. This is where the business community comes in. The private sector is offered
unmeasured openings, partnerships and Foreign Direct Investments, which not
only spur economic growth but also provide opportunities for Small and Medium
Enterprises.
As witnessed during the launch of the Kenya-United Arab Emirates Business Forum
with Sharjah Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Kenya National Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, mutual trade and industrial relations between Sharjah
and Kenya were agreed upon with regard to Big Four pillars by over 30 UAE
national companies as part of KNCCI strategy to establish trade and investment
relations with Gulf Cooperation Council.
Food security means having reliable access to a sufficient quantity of affordable,
nutritious food. Universal Health Coverage means everyone can access quality
medical care without fear of financial adversity. Affordable housing, on the
other hand, implies decent and cost effective housing for all, while
manufacturing means processing of products from raw materials and commodities
either foods, chemicals, textiles, machines, equipment and the new Blue Economy
frontier. Through PPPs and with such existing opportunities, it is time to seize the
moment in mobilising financing sources on a global, regional and national scale
to supplement the public sector by introducing international best practices and
knowledge to government entities and allowing them to reap more benefits from
such projects. However, realising the Big Four will be no small feat. A multiplicity of actors
from various fronts needs to complement each other to make it a success. The private sector is not only profit-driven but also serves as a critical
collaborator in enabling mixed systems to improve population in sustainable
ways and must therefore not be overlooked. 
Local or multinational enterprises collaboration with governments and even with
non-governmental organisations bring about expertise transfer, improved market
opportunities, more revenue collection by government and job creation, just to
mention a few. 
For technology firms, with increased level globalisation, they help achieve
improved data collection, support online training and facilitate telemedicine with
advancement in technology.  The inclusion of UHC in the sustainable
development goals presented a rare political commitment by governments across
the world to provide affordable healthcare.
A clear manifestation of the political will and affirmation to make UHC a
reality was further amplified by the President through the UHC programme launch
in Kisumu. 
For the last three decades, the private sector has been increasing its
contributions to improving the health of communities around the world. 
Besides providing health services and creating innovative finance mechanisms,
companies provide expertise, human capacity, funding, research and other
resources that support mixed health systems.
Globally, an estimated 400 million people lack access to basic health services,
notwithstanding millions more are propelled into poverty because of high
out-of-pocket medical costs. For the minimal population segment on health insurance or alternatively have
private resources to cover the expenses gaps, when unexpected personal or
family health crisis strikes, the majority are drained into poverty due to high
health expenses or tragically, death.
Commendably, the government has cushioned the citizenry through the National Hospital
Insurance Fund programme.
Well-designed and implemented health protection schemes and systems are
critical facets of UHC, if well rooted in appropriate economic and labour
market policies. By so doing, huge costs are recovered at the national level in a win-win matrix
since the population and the economy are beneficiaries of investments in social
health protection.
Primarily, UHC strives to address this challenge by protecting people from
financial hardship. And in the long-term, the burden of huge medical costs and
acute government budgetary allocations for intervention measures is ultimately
shelved. It cannot be gainsaid that private
capital financing of healthcare represents up to 40 to 70 per cent of health
expenditure in low and middle-income countries. 
As countries transition to more public financing, it is fundamentally important
to think of private financing as domestic resources and maximise their outcomes
for UHC and ensuring quality. In a nutshell, the public-private sector mix not
only ensures the necessary investments into public sector and more effective
public resources management but also accelerates quality and timely provision
of public services. Ngatia is the chairman Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry - Nairobi Chapter 