Questions have emerged about how the Nyandarua county government spent Sh2.025 billion meant for development in the last financial year. Out of this amount, only Sh895.376 million is said to have been spent on growth projects. Majority leader Edinald King’ori requested status reports from chairpersons of all 10 assembly committees on contracts for construction and supply of goods and services in 2017-18. “There are rogue and corrupt government officials who instead of doing their work prudently collaborate with rogue contractors. Thus,we don’t get value for money as some of it is stolen,” he said last week. He said the annual report from the county budget controller showed that Sh1.1 billion. 56 per cent, was not spent on development. He said even the Sh895 million reported to have been spent on payments is still pending. Only departments of Public Administration, Land, Housing, Physical Planning and Education absorbed at least a half of their budget. Among the poorest performing departments is Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries which reported it spent only Sh23.18 million out of Sh158.44 million.The department of Transport Energy and Public works absorbed Sh245.59 million out of Sh756.49 million. Finance and Economic development executive Mary Mugwanja said she could not respond appropriately as she was on the road. Shesaid, there is a breakdown of what has been factored under pending bills. She said most of the money was utilised but the works were incomplete. The department of Water and Environment absorbed Sh90.95million out of Sh243.76million. The department of Health Services absorbed Sh92.06 million out of Sh188.55 million. Kipipiri MCA Paul Ngeche called it unfortunate that all the departments spent more than 90 per cent of their recurrent budgets but did not fully utilise their development budgets. The underspending emerged before the assembly adjounred for the long holiday recess on Thursday last week. Some works and supply deliveries have not started, some were not done in accordance with specifications and bills of quantities. Other contractors have not finished their work but are demanding payment. King’ori requested details of all projects and contracts all 25 wards, the names of contractors and progress reports. Chairman of the budget committee Kiiru Gachomba agreed that a problem exists.