Elected leaders have welcomed proposals for unity talks to end the political standoff in Machakos. Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka, Woman Representative Joyce Kamene, speaker Florence Mwangangi, assembly’s majority leader Mark Muendo and MCAs agreed on the need to end wrangles. The MCAs have locked horn with Governor Alfred Mutua’s administration over budgets and development projects. During the Jamhuri Day celebrations on Wednesday, county commissioner Abdullahi Galgalo’s called on elected leaders to dialogue. Galgalo said retrogressive politics would hamper development. “We're asking our leaders including Governor Alfred Mutua to work together for the benefit of residents. development can only come when we unite,” Galgalo said. The administrator led the celebrations at Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos town. "As an administrator, I Maybe be transferred but you people have nowhere to go. Machakos is the gateway to this region and it must develop," Galgallo said. He asked the leaders to work with police to strengthen security. He single out Munyaka for praise saying the MP has supported his office. "I have come to Machakos to work. I cannot achieve anything without your support," he said. Galgallo said Machakos leader should emulate President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition chief Raila Odinga's handshake. "There can never be development if leaders keep on fighting. The assembly and the executive must work together," he said. Galgalo said there can never be development if leaders do not get along. “Hakuna maendeleo kama viongozi hawasikilizani, hawazungumzi, ni waongo. Kama Rais Uhuru Kenyatta na kiongozi wa upinzani Raila Odinga wanapatana, mbona spika na watuwake hawasikilizani na gavana Mutua? He said the leaders should emulate Uhuru, Raila and Ruto. Galgalo said the locals are not interested in political wrangles but service delivery so as to improve their living standards. Munyaka called for peace in Kenya. He urged Machakos residents to support the good relationship between Uhuru and Raila. “We need to heal this nation for the country to develop. I am happy to see Raila walk with Uhuru in Kisumu,” said Munyaka. Munyaka promised to rally the leaders so as to support Galgalo. “You are managing the county’s security in a better way, we will support you,” he said. He said they will not engage in bad politics.