Parents in West Pokot are sneaking their daughters to neighbouring Uganda to undergo female genital mutilation during the holiday season. FGM is not illegal in Uganda. An investigation by World Vision found that some girls have been secretly leaving their homes to travel to Uganda to get circumcised. The NGO’s West Pokot coordinator Titus Kaprom said the girls undergo the rite in Uganda before returning secretly when they have healed. Kaprom spoke yesterday at the end of a week of training on alternative rites of passage at Wanyoi Primary school in Sook. At least 450 girls and boys aged between 13 and 18 received  the training. “Since the law is very harsh in our country, the girls who still want to undergo the rite sneak into the neighbouring country and come back after they are fully healed,” he said. Kaprom said FGM remains high among women and girls in West Pokot, at 74 per cent.“FGM is declining but the practice is still rampant in some areas like North Pokot and Central Pokot subcounties,” he said. The World Vision coordinator said the organisation has included boys in their programmes so they understand  the importance of marrying a woman who has not been mutilated. “We take them through a  mentorship programme and dialogue forum for long-term behaviour change in April, August and December. They graduate and are awarded certificates,” he said. “Orwa and Marich, FGM is at 75 per cent. In  Sook, it has  declined from 84 to 69 per cent, while it is still high in areas like Masol and Kasei in North Pokot subcounty. World Vision has trained more than 3,000 young people on positive aspects of culture and Bible teachings.“We still have challenges along international  borders as girls escape and go to their relatives to get circumcised,” Kaprom said. Kapenguria MPSamuel Moroto  said he was concerned over briefcase organisations claiming to fight FGM. “The vice damages  girls.We need more rescue centres in remote areas. The government should investigate some NGOs since they seek donor funds in the name of helping our girls  but they are after the donations,” he said. He faulted parents in over  early forced marriages and  child labour. Some men ‘book’ brides when they are just three years old, he said.