My dictionary’s definition of the
word corruption is this: A dishonest or fraudulent conduct by those in power,
typically involving bribery. It is
the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. It can be classified as grand,
petty and political, depending on the amounts of money lost. For the last four months, Kenyans
have witnessed raw personal greed of mindboggling proportions among the men and
women entrusted with the country’s resources. They have plundered them with
abandon, leaving in their wake a trail of unpaid bills, poor or no services in
various government institutions, lack of medicine and equipment in hospitals
and adulterated oil. When the long hand of the law
finally caught up with these bad boys and girls, there was hue and cry not
because poor taxpayers had been swindled for the umpteenth time but because
those in power were protecting themselves. When Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Power,
NHIF and NCPB bosses suspected to have pinched the public purse and took off
with billions of shillings in crispy notes, a section of the Rift Valley
politicians cried foul that their community was being finished. Interestingly, none of the leaders
raised a finger to condemn runaway theft of public resources that has continued
to bleed our country exposing the people to the vagaries of a shaky economy. None complained about the painful
impact of deep-rooted graft activities that have denied children and women
access to affordable health services. To the politicians who alluded to the
fact that the Kalenjin community is being targeted in the fresh war on graft,
they are missing the point. They are in fact the enemy of the Kalenjin people
for choosing to side with the thieves instead of the people who elected them to
represent their interests. As a Kalenjin, I refuse to be used
for political expediency by politicians who care less about my community. It is an open secret that those
plundering the economy have an unofficial pact with those in the corridors of
power to amass stolen wealth to be used to influence the political tide in
2022. Whereas those lining their pockets
with stolen money from the public coffers are motivated to steal for their own
benefit, it is believed that part of the loot goes to fund political activities
that exclusively benefit this same clique. It is public knowledge that 75 per
cent of Kalenjin eke out a living in the farm or in major towns where, like
other Kenyans, they break their poor backs just to put food on their tables. A Kalenjin technocrat or top civil
servant who steals does not commit this crime on behalf of that poor farmer in
Ziwa or Cherang’any, whose maize is rotting in the stores because he could not
sell it to the NCPB after harvesting it last year because cartels imported maize
and sold it to the board. Our leaders must desist from
drugging our community through the mud every time they are caught with their
hands in the cookie jar. If, for instance, Kiptiktik steals
public funds entrusted to him, he will build himself a mansion in the leafy
suburbs of Karen and another one in his Kipsoi village, where it will be the
only stony house. Let it be known that no one steals
on his community’s behalf. If that was the case, my neighbour, Kokob Chemutai,
whose old grass-thatched hut has been leaning 49 degrees to the West, would be a
proud owner of a brand new mansion courtesy of her thieving kinsmen and women. Kalenjins are not targeted; the
problem is that they are more concentrated at the top. If there was equity and
equality in this country, that list would be having names from other
communities. So cut us some slack. My advice to those with a penchant
to steal is this: Carry your own cross and leave the rest of us in peace.                  