One person was killed while five others sustained arrow wounds following renewed tribal violence between two warring communities at Ololoipangi area of Narok South subcounty. It is suspected the violence was sparked off by a missing cow that was initially thought to have been stolen on Friday night but was later found in a thicket on Saturday morning. Tension remained high in the area after the two tribes continued fighting in suspected retaliatory attacks. The affected areas are Ololoipangi, Nkoben and Oloruasi. Narok County Commissioner George Natembeya said that the body of a middle-aged man was found in the troubled area. He said police officers will remove the body on Sunday morning and ascertain the cause of his death. The county boss said that those injured sustained arrow and spear wounds during the dawn attacks and were rushed to Ololulung’a sub county hospital and Narok County Referral Hospital. He downplayed claims that the fresh violence erupted after cattle rustling. The administrator called on the residents to remain calm as the government has deployed GSU officers and other security personnel to calm the situation. Natembeya appealed to the communities to embrace peace noting that only peaceful co-existence will stir development in the area. The renewed violence came just two days after Natembeya lifted the curfew that had been imposed after peace returned in the area. During his Jamhuri Day speech in Narok Stadium on Wednesday, Natembeya warned there were people who benefited from tribal clashes hence fueled chaos by spreading propaganda through social media for personal gains. Three months ago, the areas bordering the Maasai Mau forest that are inhabited by the two communities experienced chaos as the two communities battled each other. The government was forced to deploy a contingent of security officers in Nkoben, Olenguruone, Olposimoru and Nkareta areas area in Narok North and Narok South Sub Counties where tens of people were killed, over fifty people injured and hundreds of houses torched. The fight triggered Rift Valley Region Commissioner Chimwaga Mongo to visit the area where he put a dawn to dusk curfew. Three weeks ago, National Cohesion and Integration Commission called on the Kipsigis and Maasai Communities to embrace brotherhood spirit in a bid to boost peace in the county. Commission CEO Sheikh Hassan Mohammed urged the two groups to shun tribalism that has led to conflicts experienced in the area this year. Click here for the latest political news