Counties from the Ewaso Nyiro basin have commenced dialogue on efforts to conserve the dwindling Ewaso Nyiro River following massive human activity along it. Residents from Laikipia, Samburu and Isiolo expressed fear that the river, a source of livelihood for over 3.5million residents, will dry up if the necessary measures are not taken. Speaking at a forum held at Samburu Lodge yesterday, Mali Ole Kaunga of Indigenous Movement for Peace Advancement and Conflict Transformation (IMPACT) said most of the investments downstream are built along the river yet it is the only hope for residents and their thousands of animals. The organiser of the forum said major government developments including LAPSSET and the Isiolo Resort City projects would strain the river further, saying Kenya is “a water deficient country”, the northern parts being affected most. “The ecosystem is facing a number of challenges that translate to much more pressure to the river and this means much more problems in the future to the ever increasing population and livestock at the expense of range, and water managements practices,” Kaunga said. He insisted on the need for the counties to formulate joint policies on how the river should be protected adding that there is a total disconnect in what each of them is doing on the parts the river goes through. Laikipia Deputy Governor John Mwaniki said all stakeholders and beneficiaries will be brought together in finding the way forward including large scale horticulture and flower farms upstream whose main purpose is business. Mwaniki said the farms have abstracted water from various tributaries of the river for years but have done little to conserve it. “We are assured that the counties will come up with strategies that will see the revival of the ecosystem and our call to the international conservation organizations is to chip in the process that will start soon so that we can walk the journey together,” he said. His Samburu and Isiolo counterparts Julius Leseeto and Abdi Isah supported the governor’s sentiments, saying the communities need to be educated on how to get involved in the second phase of the process. The governors said the impact of the communities will be needed in the process as they are the main beneficiaries. Counties in arid and semi-arid areas are the most affected, with water related conflicts expected in a few months, judging from the level of water crossing the Archers Post Bridge. The forum was attended by representatives from the three counties, Water Resources Management Authority, Wetlands International, National Environment Management Authority and environment conservation groups. The partners agreed to engage the upstream counties of Nyandarua, Nyeri and Meru.