Ninth seed Sheil Kotecha beat Ugandan David Oringa 6-1, 6-4 to progress to the semi-finals of the Karen Open tennis Championships yesterday. Kotecha was in control of the tie from the opening serve as he toyed around with the Ugandan, racing to a 3-0 lead after breaking Oringa’s serve. Oringa found his rhythm in the fourth game to reduce the margin to 3-1 but Kotecha was in superb form as he stepped up a gear to win the next three games to bag the opening setOringa came out firing from all cylinders in the second set as he piled pressure on Kotecha’s serve to race to an early 2-0 lead. Kotecha was not going down without a fight and battled back in the third and fourth games to tie the match at 2-2. Both players looked evenly matched as they went on to tie the match again at 4-4Kotecha then broke Oringa’s resistance in the ninth game to lead 5-4 and sealed his place in the last four with a well taken drop shot . Kotecha was delighted with the victory and paid credit to his opponent for a good encounter. “Oringa is a tough competitor and I had to step up especially in the second set,” added Kotecha. Albert Njogu caused a huge upset by edging out Ugandan Duncan Mugabe 7-6( 4 ), 6-3 in a pulsating contest. The two players traded serves in an entertaining first set with the younger Njogu coming out tops in the tie break with a 4-1 lead. A tired Mugabe rallied in the second set but Njogu kept his cool in the crucial moments of the set to advance. Ibrahim Yego edged Petty Andnada 6-3, 7-5 as Uganda’s Boris Aguma beat Simon Ayella 4-6, 6-2, 6-0. After the completion of the of the Karen Masters event, action will move to the Kenya Junior Open next week at the Nairobi Club. Top junior players including Shakir Varese and Ryan Randiek, Faith Urasa, Grace Owuor and Jennifer Muchitu are expected for the four-day event. Tennis Kenya (TK) vice chair Francis Mutuku said Kenya will send 10 players to the Africa Zonal Championship in Tanzania next month. The players will compete in the Under-18 and U-14 category. Mutuku said he expects the players to come out top. “We have had a competitive tennis programme in terms of development programme and we will pick the best to represent the country,” he added.