Seven suspects arrested in connection with the loss of Sh5.6 billion at the NCPB were released on Tuesday on a police bond of Sh100,000 each. Five NCPB officials, an assistant chief and a trader were arrested on Monday by the EACC detectives probing questionable payments for maize delivered to the board. They are Renson Kibet Korir (silo manager, Eldoret), Thomas Kipkurgat Sang (extension officer, Soi ward), Willy Kipkoech Kosgei (silo manager Kisumu), David Bargetuny Korir, (assistant chief, Sionim), Jeremiah Omutsai Omwayi (deputy silo manager, Kisumu), Laban Momanyi Michira (cashier, NCPB Kisumu) and Rodney Kimutai (trader). EACC Western region boss Ignatius Wekesa said the suspects were to be charged on Tuesday at the Anti-Corruption Court in Kisumu, but the court was not sitting. “We have decided to release them on bond and they will appear in court on Thursday,” he said. The commission investigated alleged fraudulent acquisition of public funds at the board and forwarded the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions. The office of the DPP reviewed the file and concurred with the recommendation by the commission and gave consent for the arrest and prosecution of the suspects. The offences they will be charged with include conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, unlawful acquisition of public property, abuse of office and willfully failing to comply with the law relating to the management of public funds. Also being sought in relation to the Kisumu case are traders Victoria Jebet, Caroline Chepchumba and Stephen Kiprop. The EACC has been probing the NCPB depots in Kisumu, Bungoma, Kitale, Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Nakuru. For the Kisumu case, the DPP said the probe established the NCPB officials, agricultural officers, and chiefs colluded with traders to facilitate delivery of maize to the depot. "The supplies led to fraudulent payments to traders, much to the detriment of genuine farmers," Haji said in a press statement. "As a result, two traders were revealed to have supplied a total of 149,207 50kg bags of maize worth Sh262,527,390. A Caroline Chepchumba was paid Sh102,660,426 while a Stephen Maiyo was paid Sh7,740,975." “Investigations have additionally established that various tax offences were committed. The findings have been referred to the Kenya Revenue Authority for appropriate action." Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe and NCPB finance manager Cornel Kiprotich Ng'elechey are out on Sh3 million bail. They denied charges of willful failure to comply with laws relating to management of public property, unauthorised spending of public funds, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office, neglect of official duty and fraudulent acquisition of public funds. Read: Anti-graft agency nabs trader, NCPB managers Click here for the latest political news