Ten suspects linked to the loss of Sh110 million at the National Cereal and Produce Board silos in Kisumu and Eldoret were on Thursday released on Sh5 million bond each. An Anti-Corruption Court in Kisumu held that those who will not be able to raise the bond will be remanded at the Kodiaga Prison. The suspects are Renson Kibet Korir (Silo manager, Eldoret), Thomas Kipkurgat Sang (Extension officer, Soi ward), Willy Kipkoech Kosgei (Silo manager, Kisumu). Others are David Bargetuny Korir, (Assistant chief, Sionim), Jeremiah Omutsai Omwayi (Deputy silo manager, Kisumu), Laban Momanyi Michira (Cashier, NCPB Kisumu), Willy Kipkoech Sang (Agricultural Officer, Kisumu), Victoria Jebet Rotich (Trader), Stephene Kiprob Maiyo (Trader), and Rodney Kimutai (Trader). Read: EACC arrests five NCPB officials, assistant chief over Sh5.6bn maize scandal They pleaded not guilty to the charges read out to them before principal magistrate Patrick Olengo. The charges range from conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, willful failure to comply with laws and procures relating to the management of public funds, uttering false document, abuse of office, dealing with suspect property, among others. One of the suspects Caroline Chepchumba did not take a plea. Her lawyer said she was sick and was receiving treatment in a hospital in Nairobi. However, the Magistrate ruled that she should attend the court next week on Thursday to take the plea. During the bail ruling, Olendo said he considered submissions from both parties and the nature of charges before deciding on the Sh5 million bond for each of the suspects. The defence counsels asked the court to consider releasing the accused on bail as they were already out on police bond and that some of the suspects had been bonded out over similar cases in Nairobi. Joseph Riungu, an assistant director public prosecution, rejected the defence's prayers arguing that the court should consider the seriousness of the charges while determining the bail terms. Riungu said the Sh100,000 bond given to the accused persons should not be used to determine the court bail terms. However, the magistrate noted that the court will not be guided by the bond issued by the police but will make its own decision. "I'm not aware of the cases and will not compare them to this. This court will make its own determination based on the seriousness of the charges," the magistrate ruled. The matter will be mentioned on December 27 while the hearing is set for February 12, 2019. Click here for the latest political news  