A row is simmering between the Health committees of the National Assembly and the Senate, both probing the Ministry of Health over the implementation of the Universal Healthcare programme. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki (pictured) on Thursday invited the two committees to the Safari Park Hotel, where she was to issue a detailed briefing on UHC. But shortly before the meeting, the Senate Health committee sent word that it would not attend. Earlier in the week, the Senate committee already had questioned Kariuki. Are the two committees pulling in the same direction, or different ones? A first-term MP was recently overheard lamenting how lawmakers are poorly paid compared with other state officers. The outspoken lawmaker said the Parliamentary Service Bill, 2018, will “come to our rescue” to ensure they are well remunerated (beyond their already egregious remuneration and perks). The MP said that unlike other public officers, they spend their salaries to meet the needs of their constituents, adding that additional perks are necessary to cushion them from increasing demands to serve the public. He said MPs do not control the expenditure of CDF and they do not have any other source of income. Does this justify higher perks for a group that is already the most pampered among Kenyan employees? This week, we told you of an MP who forced an MCA to fork out Sh80,000 as part of flight costs when he flew in a chopper hired by two MPs uninvited by the ‘Big Man’. Well, the second-term MP who caused a stir by insisting that the MCA pay for the ride, made a big about-turn on Thursday. He rang the MCA and later handed him Sh100,000, claiming it was a refund of the money he spent, together with interest. Was he being benevolent or mocking the MCA? Anyway, the MCA, who had been astounded by the previous demand, can now usher in the festive season in style. A governorship seems to be the ultimate goal of many sitting lawmakers, both in the Senate and the National Assembly. So many of them are pursuing this noble objective just one year after assuming office. But the audacious ambitions of a second-term ODM woman representative has left many in shock. Some have called it political suicide. The move is seen as doomed. Some county residents are certain she is going down in flames. So why can’t she just settle for a position she can realistically get? Well, it is said that ambition is the path to success and persistence is the vehicle that carries you. Click here for the latest political news