Ten governors, public prosecutions boss Noordin Haji and crime buster George Kinoti were among the few state officers conferred with presidential honours on the 55th Independence Day. Notable in the list of the Jamhuri Day roll of honours and awards was National Assembly Minority Leader and ODM party chairman John Mbadi who was also among the 402 Kenyans feted by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Jamhuri Day. Mbadi, and the ten governors were honoured with with Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart (EGH) Second Class, a prestigious state award to people who have made significant contribution to the nation. Haji, the Director of Public Prosecutions, Kinoti, the Director of Criminal Investigations, were awarded Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) First Class. The two have won the hearts and minds of Kenyans for their zest in the anti-graft war that has seen high-ranking public officers arraigned in court over corruption. The awards are “in recognition of distinguished and outstanding services rendered to the nation in various capacities and responsibilities”, according to the gazette notice dated December 11, 2018. Read: Haji, Waiguru, Joho feted as Eliud Kipchoge misses out The governors who were honoured with EGH second class are Ali Joho (Mombasa), Martin Wambora (Embu), Samuel Tunai (Narok), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Josphat Nanok (Turkana), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Joyce Laboso (Bomet) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga). Also in the list is national assembly deputy majority leader and Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi who was the lone recipient of the Moran of the Order of the Golden Hearts, MGH, Third Class. Former IEBC deputy CEO Betty Sungura Nyabuto who is currently a board member at the Higher Education Loans board was also among the 74 Kenyans who received the Moran of the Order of the burning Spear, MBS. However, Kenyans reacted angrily on-line after world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge's name conspicuously missed from the list. He had a splendid season. Kipchoge shattered the world marathon record by 78 seconds at the Berlin Marathon, was crowned the IAAF Male Athlete of the Year for his exploits and was named the UN Person of the Year. Other notable keanyans who received awards include: Senators Gideon Moi (Baringo) and his Nairobi counterpart Johnson Sakaja as well as Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa. The three received the Chief of the Order of the burning Spear, CBS, First class. Others on the CBS list were Narok Woman representative Soipan Tuya and Mps : Chris Wamalwa [Kiminini], Shakeel Shabir [Kisumu Town East]. Maoka Maore [Igembe North] and nominated senator Agnes Zani. Click here for the latest political news    