A section of leaders from the Maasai community have opposed the proposed Maasai Mara Game Reserve Management Bill that is allegedly being prepared by Narok County government. Led by land activist Meitamei Olol Dapash and Kennedy Lepore, they said the bill proposes that the management, conservation and sustainable utilization of the world-famous Maasai Mara Game Reserve be handed over to the county assembly. The proposed bill is yet to be presented to the floor of the county assembly. Dapash said they are opposed to the bill on unconstitutional grounds since no public participation was conducted. “We are aware that the bill will establish Maasai Mara National Reserve Authority that will manage the park and as a Maasai community we really do not need the authority. Our community has been living with these animals and protecting them since time immemorial,” said Dapash. He made the remarks on Wednesday during a consultative meeting at Talek trading centre, on the outskirts of the Maasai Mara in Narok West sub county. Dapash said they don't want to wait until the last minute to reject the move. “We cannot wait for the bill to be presented on the floor of the house, we want it to be disregarded in toto early enough,” he said. The renowned activist wondered why the land which was sacrificed by their forefathers for the sake of conservation and source of income is now being turned into a ‘private entity’ for the benefit of a few individuals he did not name. “We want a thorough public participation before the bill is brought to the floor of county assembly because Maasai Mara Game Reserve is owned by the community and not a specific individual,” said Dapash. He also noted that the Maasai community is a brand of conservation and is the best manager of wildlife in the world. Dapash said the county government must involve them fully before undertaking any project in the park. He reiterated that the community did not have any issue with the area governor Samuel Tunai but were opposed of the attempt to dispose their ancestral land. “We derive our livelihood from livestock and wildlife, so anything that affects the wildlife, the community should be engaged fully,” he added. Lepore, a resident of Talek, said the community is opposed to the proposed Management Authority and urged the MCAs to reject the bill. When contacted for comment, Narok CEC in charge of Tourism Joseph Koila said they will issue comprehensive statements once the bill reaches them. Maasai Mara Game Reserve is the leading earner in terms of foreign exchange for the Narok county government where the county collects at least Sh3 billion annually. Click here for the latest political news