Oil marketers want Kenya Pipeline Company to engage an insurer to recover losses occasioned by an alleged 11.6 million litres oil spillage amounting to Sh1.16 billion. The marketers through their joint company Supplycor yesterday told the parliamentary Energy Committee that although they normally shoulder costs arising from oil losses, the 11.6 million litre figure is unreasonable. Vivo Energy managing director and Supplycor chairperson Joe Muganda said that losses presented were too high to be true, stating that oil prices would surge if marketers were to bear the cost. ‘’We rejected KPC’s suggestion as presented to us in July on grounds that those losses were unreasonably high. We recommend that the supplier engage CIC Insurance on loss-recovery as we set up an audit process to look into the spillage,’’ Muganda said. The parliamentary committee which had summoned Oil Marketers to scrutinise them on what is now referred to as the oil spillage scandal read a statement from KPC board requiring Supplycor Kenya Limited to conduct a forensic audit of stock positions which should be completed by December 31, 2018. ‘’The board wants oil marketers to conclude forensic audit by December 31. It has also invited the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to help look into alleged oil spillage,’’ the committee chairperson and Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria read the statement. Even so, the oil marketers dismissed the December 31 audit deadline as too ambitious and impractical. ‘’We are hearing of that audit deadline today. KPC board did not involve us in its decision. We need sufficient time to source for a competent and acceptable auditor to conduct the assignment. That December deadline is unrealistic,’’ Muganda said. Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire and her Fafi counterpart Mohamed Osman said there is need for an independent auditor to give unbiased report about what really transpired. ‘’We don’t want a situation where KPC or oil marketers will hire their own auditors to give favored results. Kenyans need to know the truth on how 11.6 million litres of oil evaporated in thin air,’’ Mbarire said. KPC managing director who has been under public scrutiny in recent days over the alleged oil spillage saga has opted not to seek a second term after the current one expires in April. “The board received and accepted Joe Sang’s letter stating that due to personal reasons he will not be seeking a second term as managing director,’’ said a statement from KPC’s Special Board Meeting. Earlier, MPs had put Kenya Airports Authority to task on why it allows unlicensed oil brokers to sell fuel in airports. This was after oil marketers complained of unfair competition.