Murang’a day secondary schools have been warned against charging fees. The county government will dispatch officers and leaders to ensure day secondary schools do not impose extra charges during admission of Form 1 students. It has formed a surveillance team to go around the county. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said on Wednesday that day school education is free, yet some schools demand cash in the guise of development or lunch charges. They lock out many needy students, he said. He warned that all children must be allowed to pursue their academic dreams and those standing in the way will have to face the law. Iria said lunch fees are optional and a student should have the choice of carrying packed food if they cannot raise the fee. “We have many instances where principals send away students for failing to pay these charges that are not mandatory,” he said at his office. The surveillance team will be led by MCAs. They will ensure all students who seek admission to day schools are enrolled. They will visit the institutions in the first two weeks of January to check on the progress of admission. The county government will issue a hotline that parents will be required to use to report day schools that fail to admit their children over such fees. It will also issue Sh20 million bursaries to 1,000 bright students. Each of the 35 wards will get between 25 and 30 students depending on their sizes. The fund will, however, only benefit those admitted to boarding schools. MCAs will set up committees in all primary schools to identify at least two students from each. “We have agreed that none of the students admitted to a boarding school will miss out on enrolment because of financial constraints,” Iria said. “We have agreed to use schools to identify the students because when we use other processes, people bring in personal interests.” Head teachers, class teachers, assistant chiefs, the boards of management, parents-teachers associations and sponsoring churches will be members of the committees. Iria said the MCAs will not get involved until beneficiaries are selected. He thanked them for focussing on the programme to ensure it succeeds. Selected students will receive their cheques at Ihura Stadium in Murang’a town on January 7 and will receive boxes and other items necessary for admission. “It will never happen again for a student to be admitted to a national school and later transfers to a day school because of lack of fees,” Iria said. The county will follow up their education to ensure they succeed and none drops out of school.