The year 2018 has been eventful for Kenyans with the good, the bad and the ugly. During 2018, Kenya's witnessed the 'swearing in' of opposition leader Raila Odinga, the deportation of Miguna Miguna and the bizarre murders of Monica Kimani and Sharon Otieno. It is also in 2018 when a handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila calmed political temperatures in the country, Kenya Airways launched direct flights to New York and Harambee Stars qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations. In 2018, some 207.9 million visits by 19.6 million users have been made to the Star website to read the cocktail of stories that our teams have worked on each day. Here is the list of the most read stories on the Star in 2018 based on this data. 1. How Uhuru named CSs minus Ruto - On January 8, the Star put together details of behind-the-scenes manoeuvres before President Uhuru Kenyatta — with DP William Ruto conspicuously absent — on January 5 announced his first Cabinet nominees after the October 26, 20017 repeat election. With the DP absent on Friday, the President and trusted lieutenants decided to retain some and name some new people — a lineup Ruto opposed. The DP has wanted to position his key allies in the Cabinet to promote his 2022 run for the presidency. 2. An HIV card, quarrel and 22 stabs, Miss Lang'ata Prison confesses - It is one of the most bizarre murders to ever rock the country. And on February 27, Ruth Kamande - on trial for murdering her boyfriend - confessed to stabbing him 22 times using a kitchen knife. The 2016 winner of the Miss Lang’ata Prison beauty pageant told Justice Jessie Lessit she stabbed Farid Mohammed on September 20, 2015, in self-defence. Kamande, 24, told the court Mohammed tried to kill her after she discovered he was HIV-positive. 3. How Wanjigi pushed Raila to be sworn in - On February 1, the NASA coalition rallied together to dispel speculation that they were falling apart, even as details filtered in about the force behind Raila Odinga's January 30 oathing. The Star established that eccentric businessman Jimmy Wanjigi was the man calling the shots behind the scenes, despite a chill in the relations with the other three co-principals. The NASA co-principals addressed a press conference at the Okoa Kenya office on that first day of February putting on a show of unity, saying it was their strategy to stagger the oaths and that their supporters should not panic. 4. Maribe to face murder charge - Celebrated Journalist Jacque Maribe was thrown into the limelight for the wrong reasons in October after the arrest of her then-fiance over the murder of 28-year-old businesswoman Monica Kimani. On October 5, police confirmed to the Star that Maribe and her fiance Joseph Irungu would both be charged with the murder which they suspected occurred on September 20. Maribe was implicated in the gory murder by her conduct and association with prime suspect Irungu aka “Jowie”, according to the police. They were both charged and denied the charges with the case set to start in June 2019. 5. Is Uhuru targetting Supreme Court? - On February 13, President Uhuru Kenyatta dropped Attorney General Githu Muigai and demoted Solicitor General Njee Muturi in changes that ultimately appeared to target the Supreme Court and the Judiciary in general. Githu was replaced by Appeal Court President Mwangi Kihara while Njee's position was taken by lawyer Kennedy Ogetto, who was part of Uhuru's ICC legal team. But it is the nomination of three members to the Judicial Service Commission that signaled the President's intention to live up to his threat to revisit the Judiciary. 6. Uhuru unveils new Cabinet, nominates Munya, Shebesh, Ababu, and Marwa - Election losers and women won big after President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed them to the Cabinet in changes announced on January 26. The president also created a new position known as Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS). "Chief Administrative Secretary will broadly be responsible for helping CS to coordinate running of affairs in respective ministries," Uhuru said. 7. Miguna 'deported' to Canada - lawyer Nelson Havi - February 6 was an eventful night for lawyer Miguna Miguna who was the self-declared leader of the National Resistance Movement following the October 26, 2017 elections. Miguna's family and other sources told the Star that evening that he had been "deported" to Canada at around 11pm. His lawyer Nelson Havi said he had been "reliably informed" of the 'deportation' by sources at the JKIA and in Miguna's family. Havi said the controversial lawyer and Nasa politician, who has dual citizenship, was forced into a KLM flight at the airport in Nairobi. 8. UN sent Obasanjo to stop Raila oath, quell political tension - As controversy of the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta in the October 26, 2017 repeat election threatening to tear the country apart, the United Nations Secretary-General Antanio Guterres sent former Nigeria President Olusegun Obasanjo to try and quell political tensions in Kenya. Sources within the diplomatic circles told the Star that Guterres believed Obasanjo draws respect from both President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. Obasanjo's mission, according to sources, was to prevail upon Raila not to go ahead with the swearing in that is planned for January 30. A mission that failed. 9. Uhuru snubs Obasanjo call for dialogue - As the world watched how Kenya was to handle the political impasse arising for the election, former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo left the country without meeting President Uhuru Kenyatta when he shuttled into Nairobi to broker a deal with NASA leader Raila Odinga. State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu told the Star on January 19 there was no request from Obasanjo to meet Uhuru. "No meeting was requested so it follows that none was granted," Esipisu said. The UN Secretary-General's emissary was expected to meet the President Deputy President William Ruto after a session with NASA leaders. 10. NASA's radical plan for Raila's swearing-in - By mid-January, NASA had drawn up radical plans in what appeared to be its final push to swear in its leader, Raila Odinga, on January 30. Its think-tanks had concluded that restless opposition adherents, smarting from the contentious October 26 poll boycott, would accept nothing short of Raila's inauguration as the People's President. “It is clear our supporters are not ready to engage in any other fight for electoral justice before the oath. When Raila was on the Christmas holiday at the Coast, people kept running after him with the Bible to be sworn in,” sources close to Raila told the Star on January 12, requesting anonymity. 11. Rift between State House, Ruto to blame for City Hall crisis - On January 12, Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe announced his resignation over what he called failure to earn Governor Mike Sonko's trust. While the two had a frosty relationship from the start, the Star established that wars between Deputy President William Ruto and State House operatives were to blame for the crisis rocking City Hall. Sources said the clash between the two sides over the control of the county affairs and the multimillion-shilling tenders led to Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe’s resignation. Igathe had been in constant war with Ruto’s proxies at the county headquarters. Sonko was perceived to be in Ruto’s camp, while Igathe was apparently the face of State House, having been seconded by state operatives to be Sonko’s running mate. 12. Ruto’s 2022 bid causes a stir in Mt Kenya - He was once said to be a shoo-in for President, but Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 succession plan appeared uncertain in 2018. Though Ruto is a known survivor, major hurdles are being thrown in his way as regions and politicians hatch their own plans for power in five years. Further, not everyone applauds the UhuRuto pact that they will rule for 20 years — 10 by Kenyatta and 10 by Ruto. The Opposition calls this a poisonous ethnic duopoly and that narrative resonates with many people embittered after the election. 13. Nasa leaders' security, passports restored after Uhuru-Raila handshake - Three days after the famous handshake outside Harambee House, Nasa leaders started reaping the benefits of the deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa chief Raila Odinga. The security of Nasa Members of Parliament was restored on March 12 and their cars returned. Passports that had been confiscated were also returned immediately and the cases against businessman Jimi Wanjigi and his father Maina were to be withdrawn - the two are facing charges over Jimi's possession of firearms. The government took tough steps to suppress the National Resistance Movement after Raila had himself sworn-in as the People's President on January 30. 14. Uhuru keeps six CSs, nominates Tobiko, Munyes and Ukur Yatani - On January 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed John Munyes, Ukur Yattani and Keriako Tobiko to the Cabinet. The surprise nomination came with no posts attached to them with some of the sitting Cabinets treated to a waiting game as the President remained mum on their fate. The president indicated that he had retained Henry Rotich as National Treasury CS, Najib Balala (Tourism), and James Macharia (Transport). Fred Matiangi was confirmed as Interior CS while manning the Education docket on an acting capacity with Charles Keter retained in the Energy docket while Joe Mucheru would still steer the ICT portfolio. Click here for the latest political news