A 13-year-old epileptic boy beat the odds to score 405 marks in this year’s KCPE exam. Many public and private schools rejected Erick Ngao because of his condition. He was up against discrimination. He did not give up. Edna Ngao said her firstborn was committed to achieving his academic goals — and still is. “Erick developed the condition when he was in Standard 1. I took him to several schools where he was mistreated and rejected because of his condition. He never started his school here at Leaders Academy,” she said on Saturday. She spoke at Leaders Academy where Erick sat the exam. He was dejected but never lost hope, Edna said. If given a chance, she had hoped he would withstand the stigma and excel. “I decided to take him to a boarding school in Standard 4 after trying various public schools. He could not cross the road to and from school alone because of his condition,” Edna said. Barely two years later, that boarding school called her to pick Erick. Teachers could no longer put up with his situation. “The school administration, teachers and the entire community didn’t understand him. They used to say he was pretending and was never interested in learning. When he got to Standard 6, the head teacher told me on the phone to pick him, claiming he was pretending and never wanted to learn,” Edna recalled. Defining moments She kept him at home for the whole second term as she looked for another school. Many schools declined to admit him. The mother was on the brink of having her son stay at home forever. Finally, in the third term of 2016, a friend introduced her to Leaders Academy in Athi River, Machakos county. Erick was enrolled, marking the start of another journey. The school proved to be the place he needed. The staff and pupils were supportive. Erick felt at home. “When I brought the child here, they took good care of him. The staff are so nice. I thank God,” Edna said. School administrator Irene Ndirangu said the boy had several episodes of convulsions. “The mother came crying that her son had been rejected by other schools because of his condition,” she said. Ndirangu praised Eric for remaining positive and true to his academic aspirations. Of the school’s 35 candidates, the best had 428 marks. They had a mean score of 387. Ndirangu thanked their dispensary for helping Erick throughout his stay. Ndirangu has a medical training background that enabled her to understand Erick’s condition. She trained as a clinical officer. “We handled him with lots of caution. He took his drugs twice a day,” the school head said.