ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday welcomed DP William Ruto at the Kisumu International Airport ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta visit to the Nyanza region. The two were seen sharing light moments at the airport. "Sharing light moments with Ruto as we await the arrival of President," Raila said via Twitter. The President is expected to land in Kisumu anytime from now for the start of the long-awaited tour of the region. This is the first time Uhuru will be visiting the political home turf of ODM leader Raila Odinga after the March 9 handshake. After landing, the President will launch the construction work at the Ahero Interchange Road. He will then proceed to Kisumu town by road accompanied by Raila. More on this: Uhuru's historic Nyanza tour starts Speaking in Ahero, Suba MP John Mbadi said they are eagerly waiting for the President to land in Ahero. "As leaders, we are waiting for the president and we are expected to have a meeting with him later in the evening to discuss what is ailing us," he told Citizen TV. Mbadi noted that the Opposition is cooperating with the President to ensure that the Big Four agenda is achieved. "Doing work together does not mean we are in the same party...we will cooperate in matters development and bringing Kenyans together," he said. "When the government is doing wrong we shall not keep quiet. We are not in Jubilee." He further noted that in 2022, ODM and Jubilee will be in competition. "In 2022, we might be in competition... ODM must look for power in 2022. If this will make us work with Jubilee or a section of it so be it," he added. JOB CREATION Some youths in the area said they were happy with the President's visit in the area adding that they would love the President to talk about job creation. "Let the President create job opportunities for the youth. We are tired of sitting around doing nothing," one of the youths said. Another youth, Eric Omondi, said they have stopped throwing stones and instead will embrace the handshake between Uhuru and Raila. "Here in Kisumu, we do not have work because there is corruption everywhere. We want development right now. We have stopped thinking of throwing stones," he said. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o and MPs James Nyikal (Seme), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central) and Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni) and Jared Okelo (Nyando) said they are ready for the President's visit. Read: It’s all systems go for Uhuru’s Nyanza visit Also read: Kisumu ready to welcome Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 