Six suspects linked to the loss of Sh5.6 billion at the National Cereal and Produce Board are set to be charged before the Anti-corruption court in Kisumu today. The suspects; four NCPB officials, an assistant chief, and a trader were arrested on Monday by EACC detectives probing the loss of the billions at the cereals board. They are Renson Kibet Korir (silo manager, Eldoret), Thomas Kipkurgat Sang (extension officer, Soi ward), Willy Kipkoech Kosgei (silo manager Kisumu), David Bargetuny Korir, (assistant chief, Sionim), Jeremiah Omutsai Omwayi (deputy silo manager, Kisumu), Laban Momanyi Michira (cashier, NCPB Kisumu) and Rodney Kimutai (trader). EACC Western region boss Ignatius Wekesa said the suspects, who were released on a Sh 100,000 bond each on Monday, will take their pleas today. Wekesa said the six, who spent the night at the Railways Police Station, were to be arraigned in court on Tuesday but the court was not in sitting. “We have decided to release them on bond and they will appear in court on Thursday because Wednesday is a holiday," he told the media. The commission investigated the alleged fraudulent acquisition of public funds at the board and forwarded the file to the Director of Public Prosecutions. The office of the DPP reviewed the file and concurred with the recommendation by the commission and gave consent for the arrest and prosecution of the suspects. The offences they will be charged with include conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, unlawful acquisition of public property, abuse of office and willfully failing to comply with the law relating to the management of public funds. Read: EACC arrests five NCPB officials, assistant chief over Sh5.6bn maize scandal Also being sought in relation to the Kisumu case are traders Victoria Jebet, Caroline Chepchumba, and Stephen Kiprop. The EACC has been probing the NCPB depots in Kisumu, Bungoma, Kitale, Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge, and Nakuru. The DPP said the probe established that NCPB officials, agricultural officers, and chiefs colluded with traders to facilitate delivery of maize to the depot. "The supplies led to fraudulent payments to traders, much to the detriment of genuine farmers," Noordin Haji said in a statement. "As a result, two traders revealed to have supplied a total of 149,207 50kg bags of maize worth Sh262,527,390. Caroline Chepchumba was paid Sh102,660,426 while Stephen Maiyo was paid Sh7,740,975." “Investigations have additionally established that various tax offences were committed. The findings have been referred to the Kenya Revenue Authority for appropriate action," Haji said in a press statement. "As a result, two traders revealed to have supplied a total of 149,207 50kg bags of maize worth Sh262,527,390. A Caroline Chepchumba was paid Sh102,660,426 while a Stephen Maiyo was paid Sh7,740,975." “Investigations have additionally established that various tax offences were committed. The findings have been referred to the Kenya Revenue Authority for appropriate action," Haji said in a press statement. So far, Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe and NCPB finance manager Cornel Kiprotich Ng'elechey are out on Sh3 million cash bail. They denied charges of willful failure to comply with the law relating to the management of public property, unauthorized spending of public funds, conspiracy to defraud, abuse of office, neglect of official duty, and fraudulent acquisition of public funds. Click here for the latest political news