People living in Kiambu county near the Nairobi-Nakuru highway are living in fear of being attacked by a gang of armed thugs. They allege that the gang of young men robs them and escapes using the highway. On Saturday, veterinarian Kimani Njeng'ere was killed at Tarabana village in Limuru constituency and on Monday last week, Kinoo Catholic parish priest Joseph Njoroge was shot dead in Kabete constituency by a gang of four who were on two motorcycles. The priest was robbed of an unknown amount of money at a rough road he was driving on to access the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. Neighbouring Kabete are Limuru constituency, Tarabana village and Kinoo which lie along the highway. Residents have raised concern over a gang holding illegal firearms they kill innocent people with after robbing them. A businessman, Johanna Chege, said the gang normally steals money, electronics, and other valuables. "These cases are heard of at Tarabana, Kamandura, Kwambira, Rironi, Kinoo and Gitaru which are all along the highway," Chege added. He said people started holding funeral committees during the day as the was used to stealing from them. He said the fear the gang has caused has changed people's attitude in responding to distress calls. "We are living in fear. We can't hear a gun shot and rush outside to see what is happening," Anastasia Wanjiku, a Tarabana village resident said. "You might be killed and the thugs run away towards the highway where they can take a matatu, a taxi or could be having their own vehicle," Wanjiku added. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has appealed to Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to visit the area and ensure police conduct patrols that will bring down the insecurity. "These thugs hit people during the day and at night. The issue scaring people is the use of guns. They killed a priest at our neighbouring constituency and on Saturday, they killed a resident," Mwathi said. The legislator has also offered to repair a broken down administration police land cruiser that has been grounded at the constituency headquarters. Mwathi said the most affected areas include Kwambira, Kamirithu, Ngecha, Manguo, Karanjee and along the highway. However, deputy county commissioner David Kiprop has warned that they have intensified administration and regular police patrols during the day and at night in the area. Kiprop warned the gang to surrender the illegal firearms they have to his office or at a police station of their choice in the area, saying they are following leads that will help them nab them. "We are working day and night to contain the gang. We urge them to surrender the guns they are having to us or at a police station since when we get them with them, they will face the full force of the law" Kiprop said. Fr Njoroge was buried yesterday at St Mary's Msongari in Nairobi.