A crackdown on those washing their vehicles along the lake shores and rivers within Kisumu county has begun following a 48-hour notice to stop the trade elapsed. Governor Anyang' Nyong'o had issued an executive order which stated that anybody found engaging in such will be arrested and face the full wrath of the law. The governor had earlier banned washing of all vehicles at the beaches, shores of Lake Victoria and other water bodies. This in compliance with EMCA Act, Public Health Act and Water Act which directs that every person shall refrain from activities which directly or indirectly cause water pollution. Following the order, Environment and Water executive Solomon Orimba had given a 48-hour notice for the removal of all the car washing equipment along the lake shores and rivers. The public notice dated December 28, also stated that people should ensure that they comply with relevant laws and regulations in carrying out their activities. Orimba in the letter addressed to all Beach Management Units within the county, told them to ensure that their members, colleagues or visitors adhere to the ban. “The county Nema office and our enforcement department will collaborate with the Department of Environment to ensure that this ban is enforced, “he stated in the letter copied to the Nema county Director, County Commissioner, and the City Manager. The letter was also copied to the Kisumu OCPD, Director of Enforcement, Regional Manager Water Resource Authority, subcounty administrators and subcounty environment officers. Nyong'o had earlier said that water sources must be protected in line with the county’s ‘blue economy’ needs. "The administration and residents will not allow practices that cause water pollution," he said. Last month, Nairobi hosted the first Sustainable Blue Economy Conference. It focused on creating economic growth, ensuring healthy water and building safe communities. More than 18,000 participants from 184 countries attended. They discussed harnessing the potential of oceans, seas, lakes, and rivers to improve lives. In his Jamhuri Day speech, Nyong’o said water towers are dying and the problem must be fixed before it gets out of hand. “Rivers that have been the county’s irrigation enablers are drying up, raw industrial waste flows freely into the lakes. This turns the county’s beautiful blue water into habitats for menaces like hyacinth,” he said. He promised residents that he will tackle hyacinth next year. The governor promised to deal with hyacinth decisively and conclusively. He urged residents to support the initiative. “We can’t sit by as the blue economy we’ve survived on for decades gets destroyed by our own foolish industrial and farming activities,” the county chief said. The governor said the county will partner with state agencies such as Nema to stop effluents from choking and poisoning water and killing fish. “We are all called to action to uphold our freedom by making the right choices in environmental management,” Nyong’o said. He said simple acts such as planting trees improve the environment and protect water bodies. Click here for the latest political news