The state has donated Sh150 million ultra-modern engineering equipment to help a newly built institute in Homa Bay county train students on automotive and mechanical engineering. The Rangwe Technical Training Institute will be mentored by Mawego TTI in neighbouring Karachuonyo constituency. Mawego TTI principal John Akola said the equipment will furnish students with modern techniques in the engineering world. “Rangwe becomes one of the institutions in the country that have received the latest equipment to be used for repair, maintenance and servicing modern motor vehicles,” Akola said. He said the institution will admit its first batch of 400 students in May, and will also teach agriculture and business courses. Akola said they are registering the courses through TIVET before acquiring a certificate. Students are being admitted through Mawego TTI as a way of expanding technical programmes to beginner institutions, he said. “Let youths take advantage and apply since they are expected to be job creators rather than job seekers,”Akola said. Speaking during official reception of the equipment on Sunday, Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo said the constituency pumped more than Sh54 million through the CDF into the project. Gogo said the construction of the project began in January 2015 and ended in March last year. The institution has two workshop rooms, four large classrooms and an administration block. “We expect to equip the entire workshop before training and teaching programmes are rolled out,” Gogo said. The legislator told students who will be admitted in the institution to apply for bursary. She urged residents to embrace the institution by joining it for training. “This is a way of empowering youths in the society through apprenticeship,” she added. Rural Electrification Authority official Andrew Isoi said they are connecting power to the institution in two weeks. “We’re delivering a  transformer to this institution, its own transformer, before we supply it with power,” Isoi said. Residents Jackline Atieno and Boniface Onyango welcomed the project as a route to new professions. “Most youths in this area have joined the boda boda business due to lack of training,” Atieno said. “So we hope to get skills from the institution for alternative job markets.”