Had they been more clinician in front of goal, this CAF Champions League preliminary round mismatch against abject Equatorial Guinea outfit Leones Vegetarianios would have been effectively over but as it is Gor Mahia will go into the return leg in Malabo with the contest even despite a 2-0 lead. But coach Dylan Kerr remains both confident that his side would make it into the next round and cautious that they need to avoid any slip up. “I think we really played and pressed well right from the start. We created many chances and it is only a pity that we could not score past two. Overall, we performed really well but the tie is not over. We need to focus on a better second leg,”  Kerr said. Goals from Kevin Omondi and Ivorian-import Ephraim Guikan in either half handed Gor the advantage ahead of the second leg in 10 days. Gor skipper Harun Shakava was ecstatic with the result noting: “We didn’t know much about this team but now we have a few ideas on how to tackle them. Winning the first leg with a clean sheet is a huge thing for us. Hopefully we finish the job away and qualify,” said shakava Vegetarianos, who won the Equatorial Guinea league for the first time last year, were miles away behind Gor in terms of experience and game management and failed to land a shot on target throughout the game. Gor used their home advantage well and bossed the game. Meddie Kagere had the first effort of the game in the fifth minute when he took an instinctive turn off Godfrey Walusimbi’s cross from the left but the shot went straight to the keeper. The visitors shot stopper was kept busy in the opening exchanges and 10 minutes later, he was almost caught out going for a Francis Kahata cross from the left, Wellington Ochieng flicking past him but captain Asterio Ondeyi cleared off the line. The keeper didn’t have a chance in the 19th minute though when Kahata nodded down Kagere’s cross from the left with a waiting Omondi slapping it home first time. Ten minutes to half time, Omondi had another go at goal, this time his effort on the half volley going wide after a little flick got him off his defender. Six minutes into the second half, Joash Onyango had a chance to double the scoreline but his header unmarked inside the box from an Odhiambo free-kick went over. However, the 16-time Kenyan champions went 2-0 up thanks to substitute Guikan. The Ivorian who played for Mauritian side AS Port Louis in last year’s Champions League had barely spent 30 seconds on the pitch when he collected a throw-in from the right and shot at goal catching the goalie off guard.