For the longest time, donkeys have been and remain the major mode of transport in Lamu town and other far-flung islands. Residents in this part of Kenya use these animals for movement to either transport people to their destinations or to carry loads. While the rest of Kenya shops and packs their goods into vehicles or motorcycles, Lamu residents will shop and board donkeys for the journey back home. Donkeys are not just a part of every household, they form a major part of the Lamu old town’s culture and heritage. You don’t talk about the culture of Lamu without mentioning the donkey. It’s also a huge tourist attraction, as tourist flock in from far and wide to come and witness the magical culture of the Swahili people, who have been able to maintain their noble tradition even in the face of glaring modernity. Though faced with increased threats from introduction of automobiles like cars and motorcycles, the donkey remains the go-to means of transport. The increasing donkey population, however, came with new challenges, especially in terms of donkey welfare and health. DONKEY HEALTHCARE Residents only had the basic traditional training on how to care for donkeys, while failing to take into account the general body welfare of the donkey. Hamisi Zubeid, who breeds donkeys for sale in the town, says people’s knowledge on donkey welfare was limited. “They would only feed once a day and even then, the food would only comprise of leftovers from the owner’s household.Sick donkeys would still be made to work. There was nothing like allowing a donkey to rest. Why?” he says. Zubeid says there was an even bigger challenge for sick donkeys, as the only remedy was a concoction of herbs that would help in some instances, but that most of the time, many donkeys died in the course of the ‘treatment’. “It wasn’t easy to tell what a donkey is suffering from, and so even as we treated with herbs, we were simply probing in the dark, and many died. Many others died from simple ailments like burns and colic. There was a time we were really concerned, as the population was really on the downward spiral,” he says. However, the establishment of the donkey sanctuary in the town changed their entire perception about donkeys, and in the long run, many have learnt how to care for the animals. “With the donkey sanctuary in place, I can vouch that we rarely have donkeys dying, unless they are old or were brought late at the sanctuary. Nowadays, whenever we note the slightest issue with our donkeys, all you do is load it onto a cart and wheel to the hospital. It will be assessed and treated and discharged healthy,” Zubeid says. Sanctuary senior veterinary Felix Rachuonyo says their major objective is the welfare of the donkey. Their services to the people of Lamu are at no cost. The sanctuary runs just like a normal hospital and is open to receive and treat donkeys 24/7. Lamu residents cannot be thankful enough.They say the sanctuary was godsent. “It’s not always that you get an institution fully established and set up just for donkeys. Most emphasis is on humans but rarely do people think of animals, leave alone donkeys. The few animal clinics we have heard of belong to the rich, but we are glad the donkey sanctuary continues to do all this for us for free, which is a rarity in Kenya,” said Hashim Guracho, another donkey owner.