The government has dismissed media reports that Kenya is trafficking weapons to South Sudan. Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma, in a statement on Monday, said they were dismayed by the comments. A section of international press outlets quoted UN Special Advisor Adama Dieng alleging Kenya is to blame for the prolonged South Sudan conflict. The allegations were also levelled against Uganda but it wasn't stated whether they were directly involved. Adama also didn't say if the weapons were for the government or rebels. Juma said: "The allegations by the senior UN officials are not only unfortunate and misguiding, but they also lack facts. Kenya's record is clear with regard to efforts in the search for peace and stability in the Horn of Africa." She added that the situation in South Sudan remains extremely complex so such allegations should be avoided. "This should be [the case] especially at this critical time when the country is trying to solve political and security crises." The Minister noted Kenya is guided by principles of peaceful co-existence with her neighbours and other nations, and the peaceful resolution of conflict. She reiterated the governments' commitment to lasting peace following the outbreak of the conflict in South Sudan on December 15, 2013. "The government was instrumental in the establishment of the IGAD initiative to contain the situation," the Cabinet Secretary said. Kenya has been in the forefront of asking the two main warring factions - SPLM and SPLM/A-IO - to end hostilities and find peace. Juma said the efforts paid off with the reduction of violent hostilities, intermittent ceasefires and tranquility in Juba and other areas in the country. Kenya is a guarantor of the Peace Agreement and a member of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission. "We will continue to encourage and support the South Sudanese signatory parties to implement the peace agreement in good faith," the CS said. Kenya has issued a travel advisory against that country, citing insecurity in rebel-held areas. The advisory came barely a day after two pilots, who were detained there after their plane crashed, were released. Details: Kenya issues travel advisory on South Sudan, cites insecurity Related: Riek Machar's spokesman James Gatdet sentenced to death for treason Click here for the latest political news