Is the government able to service its loans? An analyst has said that is the main question to ask when it comes to Kenya’s burgeoning debt. Genghis Capital research analyst Churchill Ogutu yesterday told the Star the government is borrowing at a faster rate than it is able to collect revenue. This, he said, is detrimental considering interest payments on government debt are financed through tax revenue. “Missed revenue targets by the Kenya Revenue Authority are definitely a concern because the national Treasury keeps increasing its budget year in year out,” he said. “Sustainability of the country’s increasing debt levels will be solely reliant on revenue collection.” What we owe Central Bank of Kenya data show that as at December 2017, cumulative national debt hit a record high of Sh4.57 trillion - Sh2.22 trillion of this was domestic debt while external borrowing hit Sh2.35 trillion. This means every Kenyan would have to pay at least Sh100,000 to offset the country’s debt. The 2017 Budget Review and Outlook report released in September last year indicated Kenya’s debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to rise to 59 per cent in 2018-19, up from the current 57 per cent. This, according to the report, will be on the back of upcoming infrastructure projects and a projected decline in revenue collection as a result of the turbulent macroeconomic environment throughout 2017. “The public debt-to-GDP ratio is scary if you look at the overal scheme of things,” Ogutu said. The government takes out loans to fund projects, especially in infrastructure, that may later on help boost the country’s economy. “Right now we may not reap dividends out of them but in the long run, we can be able to start realising the benefits of the increased government spending,” Ogutu said. “We have to look at whether our GDP is growing enough to increase tax collection that will be able to fund these debt facilities.” Ogutu said the KRA needs to ramp up revenue collection by expanding the tax base to include the informal sector. There has been tax evasion especially in ports and other areas which has also slumped revenue collection over the years. “Digitising of systems by the taxman and other stakeholders through iTax and The Single Window System will now help seal the loopholes in revenue collection,” he said. Click here for the latest political news