Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has denied allegations that he presented forged Sh633 million Treasury Bills to the Central Bank of Kenya. The legislator, in criticising the manner in which the state handled his arrest on Friday, said he was at CBK on invitation of Governor Patrick Njoroge. He accused those behind his arrest, terming them as well-connected individuals working at CBK, of an attempt to cover up a "fraud committed against Desai Industries". Read: Alfred Keter arrested over fake Sh633 million Treasury Bills Keter added that his political detractors reveling in humiliating him as a political leader are also behind his woes. The MP denied any links to the company whose directors Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa were also arrested by Banking Fraud detectives. Also read: Chatur Group denies link to man arrested alongside MP Keter in T-bills saga "I am convinced that my arrest and subsequent humiliation before the media was purposefully designed to cover up the fraud committed against Desai Industries owners," he said.  CBK second letter to Desai Industries following their query on the Sh633million Treasury Bills. /COURTESY In a statement on Saturday, Keter said this was the reason the media were allegedly given a script of what to report and himself denied a chance to give his side of the story. "I am neither a director nor a shareholder of Desai Industries on whose behalf the Treasury Bills were presented. Why then was I arrested?" he asked. The legislator added that CBK should be questioned on the matter following its letter to Desai on July 10, 2017 which stated that the bills had been paid. The said letter, signed by Jeremiah Tomno and John Njau, states in part: "After a perusal of our records, the Treasury Bills in question had been redeemed and proceeds therefrom paid in full."  CBK letter to Desai Industries Arthur Sakwa and Madat Chatur following their query on the Sh633million Treasury Bills. /COURTESY On this, Keter said: "Evidenced by the letters from the Central Bank, the T-bills no. 1138 and 1148 were legally so issued and were ostensibly so redeemed. At what point did they become fictitious if the same had been procedurally redeemed?" "Moreover, if CBK was communicating with Desai Industries, why did they not deem fit to arrest the said directors as early as July 2017?" he asked. More on this: I’ve been set up, says Keter as he is arrested over fake T-bills He said the bank only chose to involve the police after he raised questions over the payments. "The most fundamental question however remains, who was the beneficiary of redemption of Treasury Bills No. 1138 and 1148. When was this amount paid, to which bank account, and for what value?" the legislator asked.  Desai Industries demand letter to CBK following their query on the Sh633million Treasury Bills. /COURTESY In the statement he wrote from Muthaiga police cell, Keter said it is interesting that no one, including the police, seems interested in answering the questions he has raised on the matter. The MP said he will not relent in the fight to ensure Kenyans investing in the country are not exploited and their rights infringed upon at will by the state. "This, I vow to continue even if my actions will lead to such unprocedural arrests and detentions." "I will not relent. I refuse to be intimidated and will not be cowed by those who seek to exploit Kenyans with impunity," he said in the statement. Letters in The Star's possession show that the directors of Desai Industries and their lawyers have been in communication with CBK.  Desai Industries demand letter to CBK following their query on the Sh633million Treasury Bills. /COURTESY The directors, who Keter says were out of the country hence the delay in processing the February 1990 Treasury Bills, started pursuing the payments on July 4, 2017. Subsequent correspondences were issued by the bank on July 10 before the aggrieved parties engaged a lawyer who wrote to CBK on August 18 and also on August 23, 2017. Also read: Respecting rule of law a better legacy than roads or electricity, Kuttuny tells Uhuru  /COURTESY Click here for the latest political news