'Samantha', an artificially intelligent sex doll developed by Barcelona-based engineer Sergi Santos, was the most searched item by Kenyans in January, Google has reported. The makers of the sex robot, which can be 'seduced', claim men are already "falling in love" with their creation. Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service 2018 intake came in second after it opened its online application system for 2017 KCSE students. The students were asked to revise their choices for placement to universities and colleges under the government-sponsored scheme. The Football Association Challenge Cup, officially known as the FA Cup, was the third most search item. It trended as the 2018 edition of annual knock-out competition in men's domestic English football came to its third and fourth round. Trending at number four was widow of the late former vice president Michael Wamalwa Kijana Yvonne Wamalwa. Yvonne died on January 25 and will be laid to rest on February 3 in Milimani Estate, Trans Nzoia county. Also read: Kibaki mourns Yvonne Wamalwa as selfless, dedicated woman Veteran journalist Farida Karoney was the fifth, following her nomination to the position of Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of Lands. Karoney is a media and communications specialist who, prior to her appointment, served as the Royal Media Services’ Chief Operating Officer, and formerly the KTN Head of Editorial. The search for cabinet secretaries became the sixth as Kenyans sought to know the full list of new nominees for the different government ministries. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the list of his cabinet last week More on this: List of Uhuru's Cabinet nominees Seventh on the list was Nairobi Deputy Governor, Polycarp Igathe who tendered his resignation on January 12 stating that he had failed to earn the trust of Governor Mike Sonko to enable him work at the county. Igathe had served for a few months when he resigned saying he had tried in vain to gain Sonko's trust. Sonko had said Jubilee Party president Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy president William Ruto would help save their relationship. City politicians and tycoons had pushed State House to reconcile the two. More on this: Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him The Australian Open - a tennis tournament held annually over the last fortnight of January in Melbourne, Australia was eighth trending search item on Google. The tournament, dubbed the Grand Slam of Asia / Pacific, saw Roger Federer receive a personalised honour after winning the tournament for the sixth time. Closing the list of top ten trending Kenyan searches in January were gospel singer Kambua Manundu and human rights activist Ken Wafula, at position nine and ten respectively. Kambua had earlier in the month been compelled by Kenyans online to apologize for grabbing the microphone from Inooro TV's Jeff Kuria,who was her co-emcee at the Royal Media Services' Vuka Mwaka Party held at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Interest in Ken Wafula resulted from his demise at an Eldoret hospital on January 17. Wafula was the Director at the Center for Human Rights and Democracy (CHRD). Here are results for the most popular 'how to' searches by Kenyans in the past week in descending order: Click here for the latest political news