A Lamu-based civil rights organisation has said it will move to court to compel the government to stop all grand projects in the county for failing to consult locals. The Shungwaya Welfare Association also claims the multibillion shilling projects on Lamu will not benefit the indigenous residents, Mohamed Mbwana, the association’s chairman, said the government did not engage residents to resolve the land issue. Speaking in Malindi, Mbwana said they had already taken the matter to their lawyer to begin filing the suit. He said huge chunks of land have been allocated for grand projects such as oil and gas, coal, the Lapsset Corridor, airport and SGR, putting the livelihoods of the locals at stake. “We are opposed to he projects being brought to Lamu. There are no plans for the fishermen, who will now be forced to go to fish in the deep sea. The government has gone against Article 5 ( 6 ) of the Constitution on the rights of Lamu residents,’’ he said. Mbwana said it is strange that the government is turning a deaf ear on the issue. “The government should stop the projects or look for alternative land for these people to live in,’’ he said. Mbwana said compensating locals for their land will not help them survive if they are not given an alternative place to live. Already, he said, those who were compensated by Lapsset in the first phase of the project are now poor and wondered what would happen to their livelihoods in the future. He said Lamu, which is a World Heritage Site recognized by Unesco, may soon lose its identity if action is not taken. Mbwana said for many years, Lamu has HAD unique resources, including mangroves, fishing and farming, which were the core economic activities together with tourism and unique wildlife. “Lamu is heading in the wrong direction. Successive governments have allowed projects with extensive impacts on the people and the environment on the Lamu Archpelago ,' he said. He accused the government of poor project planning, saying engineers did not do proper research on the effects of the grand projects on the area. On the Lapsset project, for example, “The government only dealt with the depth of the water and closeness to the corridor, but failed to look at the resources. Lapsset will benefit the rich, not the locals,’’ he said. Currently, he said, mangroves were being destroyed and fishermen will lose their jobs, despite the fact that almost 100 percent of the locals depend on fishing. Click here for the latest political news