Did the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority turn down City Hall’s Sh30 million offer to restock public hospitals in the city with medicines? The authority was expected to resume supplies on Monday last week, after it struck a deal with the county government a week before, but this is yet to happen. Kemsa stopped provisions in June last year, over a Sh285 million debt. The parties agreed that the county would pay the debt gradually. “We were supposed to meet with Kemsa the week before last week so they could start supplying us again, but they have not come,” Health executive Hitan Majevda said. “But we placed the offer during the last meeting we had and they agreed with it,” he said. Majevda said there was a discrepancy in the exact amount the county owes Kemsa, adding that the supplier’s figures were higher than the county’s. “Our figures are based on the invoices we have, but they are saying there are more invoices they sent but we do not have them,” he said. Kemsa’s is the county’s medical supplier. The more than 78 health facilities have been running without essential drugs and have been transferring poor patients to private hospitals. But most poor residents complain that services at private hospitals are too expensive. Kemsa promised to comment on the matter, but did not do so by press time. Finance executive Vesca Kangogo said the debt stands at Sh285 million and that the county was in the process of paying Kemsa Sh30 million. She said the Sh30 million has been verified as genuine pending bills and through IFMIS. “We are having constructive engagement with Kemsa with a view of gradually settling our debts for continued supply to our facilities,” she said. Kangogo said the payment was still going through the Controller of Budget’s systems before release. “We are compiling our need and then forward the requisition to Kemsa for delivery to our facilities, according to our needs,” she added. City residents have been shunning the county-owned facilities for the Kenyatta National Hospital - a national referral facility - and hospitals in the neighbouring counties due to the poor services provided there. Poor management, shortage of staff and dilapidated structures have dogged the facilities for years. Majevda said about three million people, mostly slum dwellers, still rely on them because of their subsidised services. The groups pay for their medication out of their pockets and rely on public health facilities. New Health CS Sicily Kariuki said last week her immediate priority would be to decongest KNH. Her predecessor, Cleopa Mailu, had in 2016 initiated talks with the county on how to improve the county hospitals to ease congestion at KNH, but the talks did not yield fruit. Click here for the latest political news