Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli yesterday accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of using a “nondescript lawyer” to fight the Judiciary. He claimed lawyer Adrian Njenga is not working on his volition, but is on a Jubilee government mission. The lawyer has petitioned the National Assembly to initiate the removal of Chief Justice David Maraga, Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu and five JSC members for gross misconduct. He also wants Justice Mohammed Warsame, Aggrey Muchelule, Tom Ojienda, Emily Ominde and Mercy Deche kicked out of the Judicial Service Commission. In the petition, Njenga argues that the lot is unfit to hold the office as JSC members and “should be removed for serious violation of the Constitution.” Njenga says, “They have failed to promote and facilitate the independence and accountability of the Judiciary and the transparent administration of justice.” He further accused them of having shielded, protected and exonerated judges engaged in gross misconduct. “They have without any constitutional regard or justification dismissed petitions presented to the JSC,” he says in his letter to the National Assembly. Atwoli said Uhuru should stop his onslaught on the Judiciary, saying it will ruin his legacy. “President Kenyatta told us he will revisit on the Judiciary. We can see he has revisited using this young and little-known lawyer,” he said. The Cotu secretary general spoke in Khwisero. The trade unionist said the Judiciary is one of the institutions that have remained independent for both the rich and the poor. “Fighting it will only take the country back to the Dark Days of dictatorship,” Atwoli said. He said the scheme to remove the judges from the JSC only targets Maraga and Mwilu. “We know all these schemes are targetting Maraga for his ruling on the August 8 presidential election. This is not democracy,” Atwoli said. He referred to Maraga as a God-fearing man, who respects the law. Atwoli urged the Jubilee administration to rethink its stand on the Judiciary, saying the country is headed in the wrong direction. He said most Kenyans are unhappy with what is going on in the country.  