The shutdown of four TV stations by the state was praised and admonished in equal measure. Praised because of the unexpected outcomes and admonished by civil rights groups (the Church included) which saw this shutdown as being in bad faith. The timing of the shutdown and what the Constitution stipulates on media freedom raised concerns about the state’s modus operandi. While there will be no victors or losers in this debate, the key question is whether the policy on digitisation and the journey to improving ICT capability hinder good governance. Globalisation has enabled individuals to navigate the information space and sample ICT. Numerous factors, however, have decreased the opportunity to realise the goal of mass participation in the digital world. Beyond the connection and literacy factors there should exist structural aspects like culture, political, economic, social, transactional and transformative factors. Bridging the digital divide must also take into account Everett Rogers’s diffusion of innovations theory. According to the Communications Authority of Kenya, 89.4 per cent of the country’s 48,329,434 citizens are internet users. Government efforts to digitise and improve services are praised. A key United States government official visiting Kenya praised the government for having faster IT services compared to the US. The Pew Research Centre ranked Kenya second behind South Africa in terms of the size of population with access to the internet in Africa. Four out of 10 Kenyan adults use the internet daily. A quarter of the adult population own a smartphone and computer tablets. Switching off the TV stations created uncalled-for animosity and gave the opposition political mileage. While the objective was to clamp down on irresponsible reporting, it made the opposition popular among the public and the government unpopular. Everyone in government knows the opposition thrives on such negativity from the state. The January 30 oath in Uhuru Park demonstrated how defiant the public can be. Moi used the strategy of allowing some things in order to remain in control. The government should thrive on positives. For example, tactfully withdrawing police officers from Uhuru Park helped to bring tranquillity in the city and praise for the government. The BBC quoted an officer saying it is the duty of the government to protect all citizens. The opposition was able to exercise their right of association as patriotic Kenyans, thanks to the government keeping Uhuru Park secure all night. But switching off the TV stations while Google was running was not smart politics. More than 89 per cent of the population use the internet daily. The Uhuru Park event was watched live on laptops and phones all over the world from Google accounts. Does improved internet connectivity then have a negative impact on governance? On February 1, Prof Mirjam van Reisen from Tilburg University told a Tangaza University audience the digital divide poses a threat to governance. The Constitution makes the people of Kenya supreme. So when the people choose to act who should be their voice and arbiter? Can you be the judge and executioner of the same people who appointed you to manage their affairs? The CA has been commended for its excellent work, from issuing licences to regulating ICT services and managing consumer rights. Governance of communication structures is caught between digitisation and control by the state. Who should control and account for what? Striving to meet evolving citizen expectations and support businesses requires the internet. Do not stifle the media.