A Sh12 million eight-day retreat to Tanzania for Embu Governor Martin Wambora, MCAs, and executives has raised eyebrows. The retreat is to train executives and MCAs on the budget process and is taking place at the Eastern and Southern Africa Management Institute (Esami) in Arusha. Unhappy lot Residents took to WhatsApp and social media to complain about the county chiefs’ swift retreat, a day after resuming duties following the two-month December recess. They described the trip as a waste of taxpayers’ money. Residents said it was wrong to assign cash for the trip while the roads are in a poor state. The retreat had been kept hush-hush. According to sources, the all-expenses-paid trip is being funded by the executive and all MCAs were paid per diem allowances of Sh280,000 each in cash. It was not revealed how much Wambora and the 10 executives were paid; however, it would be higher than what the MCAs got. Speaker Josiah Thiriku and clerk Jim Kauma are also said to have gone on the trip along with senior assembly officers. No money, no deal The MCAs were reportedly joined by Wambora on Friday. He talked about the need for the executive and legislative arm to work together for development. He then left. Sources revealed accountants from the county government went to the assembly with the money in a gunny bag and paid the MCAs in cash after they reportedly demanded their subsistence allowances before leaving for the trip. The sources further reveled two executive buses were outsourced from a travel agency for the eight days of the trip. The only legislative business conducted by the MCAs this year on the day they resumed duty on Tuesday before adjourning for two weeks was passing the calendar of sittings. Moving the motion to adjourn the House until February 27, Majority leader Michael Njeru said MCAs needed time off to clear pending committee business and compile reports. No mention was made about the retreat. ‘Best institution’ Speaking to the Star on the phone, Minority leader Lenny Mwaniki and Ruguru-Ngangori and Muminji MCAs Harrison Muturi and Newton Kariuki confirmed the retreat. They said it was important for their operations. The MCAs denied receiving Sh280,000 and maintained they had to go to Esami because “it’s the best in training on leadership in this part of Africa”. “It’s important for the executive and the assembly to meet for such a training to avoid wrangles like the ones witnessed during the last term,” Muturi said. Wambora, Thiriku, clerk Jimmy Kauma and county secretary Johnson Nguu were unavailable for comment.