The United Nations this week led the world in observing the International Day of Zero Tolerance for Female Genital Mutilation, marked annually on February 6. This commemoration comes hot on the heels of a fresh debate about FGM and ongoing efforts to eliminate it in Kenya. This fresh debate came about following the recent move by a medical doctor who filed a petition at the High Court in Machakos seeking to have FGM decriminalised. As expected, anti-FGM campaigners immediately protested very loudly both online and in the streets, and with good reason. Female genital mutilation has been classified by the UN as violence against women and girls. There is evidence that the practice is injurious, harmful and in extreme cases leads to complications during childbirth that can result in the death of both mother and child. It has far-reaching social consequences, including leading to girls dropping out of school and child marriage, affecting the ability of girls and women to achieve their full potential in life. Kenya as a country seems to be making progress in the fight against FGM. According to the 2014 Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, the national prevalence of FGM is 21 per cent, down from 27 per cent in 2008-09 and 32 per cent in 2003. While this is so, there are places in the country where almost every woman and girl undergoes female genital mutilation as a rite of passage. A briefing note published by the UNFPA and Unicef in 2015 shows that FGM prevalence remains very high amongst the Somali (at 94 per cent), Samburu ( 86 per cent), Kisii ( 84 per cent), and Maasai at ( 78 per cent). This data shows that much work remains to be done and we must not relent. Anti-FGM campaigners in Kenya, including UNFPA and Unicef in their briefing note, warned that new trends are emerging that require continuous efforts against female genital mutilation. The new trends include girls being put through female genital mutilation at an earlier age, FGM is being conducted by medical practitioners in a bid to make it less painful and harmful, cross-border cutting is on the increase, and increased secrecy when the ceremonies take place. One of the grave consequences of female genital mutilation is that it is usually a precursor to early and child marriage, which usually forces girls out of school. As a result, women and girls are exposed to lifelong disadvantages as it affects their future prospects for paid employment or business. We agree with the United Nations. Female genital mutilation reflects deep-rooted inequalities between men and women, and constitutes an extreme form of discrimination against women and girls. The practice violates their rights to health, security and bodily integrity, their right to be free from torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, and their right to life when the procedure results in death. The truth is that female genital mutilation is harmful to girls and women, to their communities and to the nation. It has no benefits, health or social and whatsoever and must remain outlawed.