Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has told tenderpreneurs and cartels that they have no space in Governor Anyang' Nyong’o’s administration. Outa noted Nyong'o's government is purely anchored on zero corruption and proper service delivery so cartels will not be tolerated. "People positioning themselves for illegal tenders better pack and leave," he said on Friday during the burial of three victims of police brutality in Ahero. Outa maintained that no tender will be awarded without due processes that ensure only qualified residents benefit. “The same cartels that led to the sinking of former Governor Jack Ranguma’s administration are now trying to make inroads. Let them know this government is very different from the previous one,” he said. “It is very unfortunate that those who saw the downfall of my brother (Ranguma) now want to run down Nyong’o’s administration. You’re in for a rude shock as you have no space with me as the Senator.” Outa noted the county is grappling with a Sh3 billion debt which he blamed on massive corruption and poor leadership in the previous regime. “A number of cartels have more than 10 companies which are not qualified and are doing shoddy work. The owners pocketed billions of shillings in the last regime," he said. But he added: “We have sealed all corruption loopholes and no amount of blackmail or intimidation will make us relent in prudent service delivery." Outa further accused brokers of trying to cause disunity among county leaders, him and Nyong’o in particular. He claimed some of the cartels have been sponsoring an MP in the county to separate him and the Governor. Last week, Outa and Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor clashed over county leadership during Nyong’o’s homecoming at Kenyatta Sports Grounds. Owuor accused Outa of having ill-motives aimed at undermining the new administration. He alleged Outa plotted to take over leadership in the event Nyong’o is incapacitated. Related: I’ll expose graft cartels in Kisumu, Outa says, denies Nyong’o rift Also read: Nyong'o fine after hip bone surgery, rebukes Kisumu politicians' ill-talk on his health But the Senator dismissed the claims as baseless, unfounded and aimed at gaining political mileage. He accused Owuor of engaging in "cheap politics" and described him as a “Johnny-come-lately". “He is among those who opposed Nyong’o’s candidature yet he now wants to play holy to please his masters,” Outa said. "Nyong'o and I came together to unseat Ranguma because we have ideologies to better the lives of Kisumu people. “If I did not have the interests of county residents at heart, I would have supported Ranguma as we hail from the same place. But because I want the best for our people, I knew Nyong’o would make the best county CEO. That’s why we formed team kali (a tough team).” Read: Nyong’o welcome party turns chaotic as Outa, MP clash Also read: There’s no bad blood between me and Nyong’o - Outa Last year, Outa accused County Secretary Olang’o Onudi and Nyong’o’s Political Adviser Abala Wanga - who is the former Director of Administration - of awarding Sh200 million road tenders without proper procedure. Outa attending the burial alongside MCAs Ken Ooko (Ahero) and Maurice Ngeta (Awasi-Onjiko), Deputy Speaker Erick Agola and Chief Whip Gard Olima Kennedy Ochieng (24), Lazarus Ochieng (34) and Richard Okumu (17) - who was a form two student of Lela Secondary School - were shot dead on February 7. Click here for the latest political news    