Former Riruta MCA Samuel Ndung’u who is facing murder charges will have to wait longer to know if he will be released on bail. The prosecution yesterday told High Court judge Joel Ngugi that three “vulnerable witnesses” are lined up and the accused should be denied bail until they testify. The prosecution cited possible witness interference. But Ndung’u’s lawyer Robert Mutito said the witnesses are not vulnerable. He said his client has been cooperative since he was arrested. Ndung’u hasn’t interfered with the police probe or family members, he said. Judge Ngugi told the prosecution to produce the three witnesses in court next Monday for the start of the hearing. Ndung’u has been charged with the torture-murder of his 24-year-old wife Susan Njambi on January 24 in Thindigua Estate, Kiambu. He was charged with others not before the court. Njambi was raped, doused in acid, forced to drink a corrosive substance and left for dead on a farm. Ndung’u was arrested after Njambi reported he and other two men assaulted and raped her, then doused her face in acid. She sustained more than 70 per cent burns. Njambi said they had picked her from her home in Thindigua Estate in Kiambu town. The mother of a four-year-old boy was later abandoned at an isolated coffee farm near Kamiti Corner on the Kiambu-Ruiru road. She crawled to the main road, where Good Samaritans took her to Kiambu police station and later to Kiambu Level 5 Hospital. She later died at Kenyatta National Hospital. Ndung’u has denied the charges and requested to be freed on bond. Witnesses’ lawyer Ndegwa Njiru said if freed, Ndung’u would make “the victims apprehensive when testifying against him”. “Releasing the accused will make them feel threatened. The court should put them under the witness protection programme,” he said. Ndung’u asked he be detained in Kiambu police cells, where it would be convenient for him to get medication because he has asthma. Judge Ngugi ruled, however, that he be remanded in Nairobi and be provided with medication. Click here for the latest political news