Over half of Kenyans will change their behaviour towards investing depending on sustainability programmes of their financial corporations. According to chief executive of Kenya Bankers Association Habil Olaka, in two years' time, 75 percent of Kenyans will be making banking decisions depending on the financier's sustainable development goals and efforts to curb climate change in their daily procedures. Olaka said consumers are becoming more conscious of sustainability and are partnering with corporations transacting their businesses in a manner that minds the environment, equity and economic reliability. “The industry should be prepared to introduce procedures and governance requirements that ensure investment activities are in line with international best practices in mitigating climate change through allocation of capital,” said Olaka. The local financial sector is taking steps to integrate new policies and governance in their organizational structures to achieve the long-term SDGs. The global goals are a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity while sensitizing areas such as climate change, economic inequality, innovation, sustainable consumption among other priorities. Co-operative Bank of Kenya was declared this year’s best overall winner of the Sustainable Finance Catalyst Award 2017 for banks and other financial sector players hosted by the KBA. Group managing director Gideon Muriuki said the inclusivity of the bank is among the unique features that enable it to serve its customers, who are mainly found within the co-operative movement. "It has also helped us build an awareness and prudence to avoid putting future generations in jeopardy,” he said. Commercial financing to businesses for investments and productivity stood out for the financier, especially the solar panel project. The lender was involved in an alternative energy project when it financed Strathmore University in 2014 through green funds at concessionary rates to enable the institution secure an expansive solar rooftop PV power plant consisting of 2400 solar panels and 30 inverters producing over 600 kilowatts. The project is estimated to save the university close to Sh1.8 million every month in electricity bills, directing the savings to service the loan. The bank's credit director Anthony Mburu said the sustainability initiative was started through employee training and involvement with organizations such International Finance Corporation, The Netherlands Development Finance Company and German international financing through to benchmark the international standards in order to localize and incorporate the practices in their business. “We expect our partners to benefit from such programs and plan to support businesses around renewable energy, energy efficiency and social good.”   