Migori Governor Okoth Obado on Monday warned county staff found colluding with contractors and suppliers to fleece public funds. Obado said he had received information some were doing illegal paper works to clear selected contractors and suppliers for payments even before the completion of the projects. “Your days are numbered. We cannot operate like that. Some of these contractors are a shame to this county and my government will not pay them,” he said. He said most of the contractors and suppliers are behind do shoddy work and then run for payments. This came amid claims of delay in paying contractors and suppliers. The county boss promised to do a staff head-count to weed out ghost workers and send home the non performing staff. A similar exercise was undertaken two years ago and at least 46 ghost employees unearthed. “I have seen many people walk up and down the county offices claiming to be staff. We should have decorum in the county,” he saud. He said plans are underway by his Fisheries department to ensure fish was reared by the locals in fish ponds to compete external traders who were out to exploit the local market. The govspeaking during this year’s County Dialogue Forum, an annual event held in all the 47 counties ahead of the Devolution Conference. Residents of respective counties discuss achievements, challenges and way forward towards improving on devolved governance. Migori residents got opportunity to question the delays in implementing some of the county government’s policies and pledges made by the governor during his campaign. “The county government promised to uplift Ageng’a Dispensary to a status of a health centre for us to access improved health services. We have not seen this. We are running out of patience. What is your plan?” resident Jack Omollo said. This year’s Devolution Conference, themed, “The Devolution Experience: Delivering Results for Sustainable, Productive, Effective and Efficient Governments” will take place in Kakamega county in April.   