Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria feels the government is not doing enough to deal with opposition leaders who organized and attended Raila Odinga’s mock swearing-in on January 30. The MP who is a fierce critic of Raila took to social media to express his disappointment that only one individual has been forced into exile over the ceremonial oath. Read; Kenya crackdown on media, opposition attracts heavy criticism The MP feels that officers mandated with dealing with lawlessness are sleeping on their job. “After the April 2017 coup attempt in Turkey, the government of Tayipp Erdogan jailed 47,155 and banished the coup leader Fethullah into exile. Someone in Kenya is sleeping on the job. Only one deportation so far? Wacha nirudi nyumbani – let me go back home,” Kuria posted on his Facebook page. His remarks are in apparent reference to the deportation of self-styled National Resistance Movement (NRM) General Miguna Miguna to Canada on Tuesday night. Miguna’s deportation was sanctioned by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i who said the vocal pro-opposition lawyer was not a Kenyan citizen. Miguna has since vowed to fight the deportation order saying he has never and would never contemplate renouncing his Kenyan citizenship. Kuria’s post drew mixed reactions from Kenyans with some supporting his sentiments, others critiquing it while others made fun of the whole scenario. Owuor Daktari simply said “Despot!!” while MacDonald Omondi wondered why action was yet to be taken against Raila for taking the oath. “You said if Raila is sworn in he would be hanged. You said no swearing will take place at Uhuru Park because you and business community had booked the venue... NASA swore in their leader there. Now you are saying acha urudi nyumbani. Kwani umekuwa wapi hizo siku zote...this is loosely translated to mean Where have you been all these days?” PK Macharia said “Mr Kuria, these pple who think they can talk to you the (way) they want should be apprehended, we have the technology that can nub them exactly where they are, it would be good for them to explain themselves and in the process shut them up.” Kagi Samie said, “The coup plotters n the militia leader have twisted the coup to be a rehearsal of miscarriage oath!!I also can’t imagine my slogan wakiapisha tunanyonga imepotea hivo aki!” Hillary Arap Sang Junior wondered how Raila, after taking the oath, was again talking of fresh elections when he’s supposed to be in “office”. “When we say Raila is a comedian Nasarites wanasema tunamuonea.. Now which president in his right frame of mind would call for an election after swearing himself in.. I thought he was to name a cabinet Kumbe he still wants another election.” In an exclusive interview with the BBC recently, Raila claimed that the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta at the October 26 election was an electoral coup. He said NASA is pushing for a third election to be held in August after the necessary reforms in the electoral system are achieved. Read: [VIDEO] 'General' Miguna gets heroic welcome in Canada, says Uhuru's downfall a must  Click here for the latest political news  