One man was beheaded, another shot dead and several critically injured in Mt Elgon constituency, Bungoma, on Sunday night. Ten cows were shot dead. Nothing was stolen. Soja arap Muutyo was beheaded. The unidentified killers took away his head and left the corpse. Moi Burumbi died of gunshot wounds. The death toll could rise, as some victims were hacked and shot as they tried to flee. The two slain men were from Saria village, Chepyuk ward. Residents want action. They questioned the motive of the attack, as nothing was stolen. Police are investigating and hunting for the murderers. “The killers are not yet known, but it’s obvious they are members of the marauding gang that has been terrorising residents since last year,” resident Amus Chemabus said. The attackers had AK-47 rifles, machetes and arrows, Chemabus told the Star. He said 10 cows belonging to the deceased Burumbi were also shot dead by the assailants. State told to act Saria village is not accessible by road. It borders a forest and is near the Banantega KDF camp. Residents said the region’s hilly terrain makes it difficult to eliminate criminals. They also accused police of laxity. Criminals disappear into the forest and evade arrests because they know the terrain, residents said. Chemabus said killings in the Mt Elgon region are increasing and swift measures must be put in place to stop further loss of lives. Locals want the government to act and restore peace and order so they do not live in perpetual fear. “We condemn these incidents and call upon Cabinet Secretary for Interior Fred Matiang’i to take urgent measures to curb this,” Chemabus said. He said the attacks hurt learning in schools, daily work and is undermines economic development. Bungoma county Administration Police commander Nicholas Oyoko yesterday said police are searching for the gang. Police have heard a difficult time communicating, as the area has no network coverage, he said. Oyoko told residents to work with the police and support efforts to wipe out criminals. Police can only work better if residents collaborate and provide information about suspects, he said. “We only have one difficulty in containing the crime wave in Mt Elgon. Residents do not want to point out criminals living among them,” Oyoko said. He said the number of those killed in the attack could rise, as some were hacked and shot as they tried to flee. Click here for the latest political news