Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has dismissed reports that he will be sworn-in as the People's Deputy President on February 28. Speaking in Machakos on Tuesday, the Nasa principal termed the claims "propaganda and Jubilee traps" and said the announcement will be made "later". It was reported that Kalonzo will take his oath on this date at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. His co-principal Raila Odinga took his as the People's President on January 30, a ceremony that he, Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) missed. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent On this, the Wiper boss said: "I could have not taken the oath on the day Raila took the oath. We had a strategy for him to start and for me to be sworn-in later." The politician further noted: "We are conducting a serious audit on what is happening in the country and are consulting with Nasa. We are focusing on the fight for freedom." Raila's ceremony resulted in the arrest of several leaders in the Opposition and the deportation of lawyer Miguna Miguna to Canada. Three main TV stations - KTN, NTV and Citizen - were shut down ahead of the self-inauguration, resulting in uproar by the public and warnings by the United States and the European Union. Read: I will be back, vows Miguna Kalonzo further explained that they are cautious about the dates as they want to remain clear about the way forward. Reiterating that he is firmly in Nasa, he noted he has stood with Raila before and will do it over and over again. "You forget I stood with Raila in 2013 and 2017... if you want me to support him in years to come, I will be there." Kalonzo said Nasa is not about anarchy as it is a group of serious individuals. "We are serious leaders and we mean well for Kenya. I have never been a coward and I will never be one," he said. It was said Kalonzo's oath will also take place at Uhuru Park and that Mudavadi and Wetang'ula agreed to attend. The three said they missed Raila's ceremony for security reasons but their explanation did not stop speculation about the coalition's stability. Kalonzo, Wetang'ula and Mudavadi were dismissed as cowards and traitors who abandoned Raila at his hour of need. More on this: Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula irredeemable cowards – Atwoli On February 6, the Wiper boss said he was ready for the oath but that the coalition needed to address some matters. "How I wish I were able to do it right now. Taking oath is not an issue. We are not cowards. There is no hindrance. We have to put our house in order." More on this: Kalonzo to be 'sworn-in' on February 28 Also read: I'm not a coward, Nasa to solve issues before swearing-in, says Kalonzo Click here for the latest political stories