Jubilee Party's only focus is its key development pillars, Tourism CS Najib Balala has said, and ruled out dialogue with NASA. The dispute that began with the August 8, 2017 general election has seen president Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto reject calls for talks and opposition leader Raila Odinga take oath as the people's president. Read: Why Uhuru will not hold talks with Raila, NASA Balala, a Jubilee leader, said: “We will not have any dialogue and we will not have any politics until we fulfill our agenda of four items - affordable housing, health care for all, manufacturing and food security and value addition. "That agenda cuts across all governments and is the only one we have until 2021, when we will prepare for Ruto to take over." Balala spoke at Lake Lake Ol Bolossat area in Nyandarua county on Friday where he represented the president as the chief guest during celebrations to mark World Wetlands Day. The cabinet secretary noted Uhuru's administration follows the constitution and the rule of law and asked the opposition to follow suit. Campaigns were very tough for Jubilee as too many enemies vowed to destroy its leaders, he said, but added that they won the election with a rate of 54 per cent. "That is not a joke," he said. "The opposition should not lecture the government on matters law, demanding that the government abide by the constitution, because the government is well-versed with what the constitution and the rule of law are all about. "That is why when the Supreme Court decided to nullify the elections in August, we abided and went to the October 26 elections." Balala accused NASA of disregarding the constitution by selective application of its dictates yet the government "religiously" abides by it. “If you want to select and choose what rule of law to follow or not, you are not respecting the constitution. In the constitution, there is no selection. We are hypocrites. We are talking about dialogue. What dialogue?" The minister noted that even US president Donald Trump did not dialogue with Democrat Hillary Clinton yet she had won the popular vote. "She went home because the US law stipulates that it is not the popular, but Electoral College vote that counts." In Kenya, Balala said, the rule of democracy stipulates that the winner must be respected and allowed to run the country for five years. He said the loser must stay at home and channel his ideas through the minority leader in parliament. "Use parliament to bring those proposals. Don’t tell us to dialogue. Dialogue entails accepting that a head of state was sworn-in on November 28 and the only person who can swear him in is the Chief Justice. That is why the Uhuru Park swearing-in of Raila Odinga was a circus. But we don’t take it lightly because such circuses amount to breaking the law." Balala claimed opposition leaders planned to create chaos and then use the media to propagate the lie that Kenya is burning yet Kenya is a "very peaceful country". This he said, was in line with the interests of only one person who is hungry for power and who “not only the people have rejected but even the almighty Lord has rejected." He said the country should not be shaken as the government of the day and Interior cabinet secretary Fred Matiang'i know the law. Matiang'i needs reinforcement to enforce the law, he added. Related: Miguna’s arrest continues state attack on Nasa Also read: Arrest all organizers of 'People's President' oath Click here for the latest political stories