I  was going through some old photographs of myself and came across one that must have been taken in 1990. I was in the Sunday Times newsroom, looking busy and somewhat harassed, banging out a story on the keyboard of an old manual typewriter. Here I am nearly 30 years later, still banging out copy on a keyboard, only now instead of a noisy manual typewriter that pinged every time I got to the end of a line and had a lever to help me get to the next line instead of a return key — I have a laptop computer that I can carry around everywhere I go and work quietly, even on a flight when everyone else is asleep. Anyway, in those days, and not being the most technically minded guy, it was hard for me to imagine that one day and not that far away either, my humble typewriter would evolve to become my mailbox, my video camera, my source of music, a television and also a phone that would fit in my pocket and work from anywhere on the planet. Of course I had seen such things in childhood cartoons such as Battle of the Planets, and other such fantasies, but as far as I was concerned, it would be a lifetime before such things became realities. And also, who would need a TV on their phone when all that was available for viewing was KTN, which was CNN driven, or KBC? This was the eve of the information superhighway, as marketed by Bill Clinton and Al Gore in their presidential campaign of 1992, which would change everything for everyone forever. All these memories came flooding back to me this week, when our DStv connection malfunctioned and needed a technician to come two days later to fix it. When he showed up, the technician mumbled something about the LNB cable, though quite frankly, he could have spoken in Orkan [the language spoken on Planet Ork where Mork came from, keep up!] for all the sense that made to me. The point is, from Wednesday night to Saturday morning when the technician found time in his clearly busy schedule to come and sort out our problem, we were forced to find other ways to fill our evenings, which are often spent watching TV. It was time to catch up on a few books that I’ve been meaning to read, and I properly reconnected with my old friend, the radio. I find it hard to believe now, but once upon a time in the mid- to late 1990s, I spent more time listening to the radio than watching TV. Nowadays, however, the radio is only on in the background over breakfast or in the car, where it is most useful for traffic reports. When working from home in the mornings, I tend to listen to a radio show broadcast through the TV, but with the TV broken, I found that the world didn’t stop spinning. Actually, having no TV for a couple of days was such a refreshing experience that I’m thinking of doing it on a regular basis, only without the eye-wateringly high bill for repairs.