Nairobi residents will have to bear the brunt of traffic snarl-ups longer than expected. This is after contractors renovating five matatu termini situated outside the CBD declined to hand them over to the county over non-payment. It was hoped that the completion of the City Bus termini will accommodate more vehicles to ease congestion downtown. However, the contractors are reluctant to hand over the termini due to pending payment. Read: Sonko bans PSVs from Nairobi CBD, changes from September 20 This revelation is contained in a report by the County transport and infrastructure committee that visited the sites for purposes of inspecting them. The report did not capture the amount of money the county owes the contractors. Transport executive Mohammed Dagane did not return our calls. “The transport committee recommends that the County Government should expedite payments to contractors and take over the various bus termini in order to proceed with the programme of urban decongestion,” read the report. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had in the run-up to the elections pledged to have the bus termini ready so as to de-congest the city. The termini are in Nairobi Central, Roysambu and Parklands wards. They are Hakati bus station, Desai road, Railways bus station, Machakos Country bus and Pangani bus termini. According to the vice chairperson of the County transport committee Mark Mugambi, the rehabilitation of the termini had already been completed in most of the termini with cabro and drainage systems being put in place. According to the committee, increased illegal parking, as well as lawlessness, continue to be witnessed within the city centre. Sonko had last year banned all PSVs from accessing the city centre but later suspended the ban to give way for negotiations with industry players. Matatus Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai had challenged the governor to provide alternative pick-up and drop-off points for PSVs before kicking the vehicles out of the city centre. According to the report, a site visit to the Northern bypass last year revealed that a certain Metro logistics company was operating an illegal parking space. This was despite the Kenya Urban Roads Authority issuing a notice ordering the company to vacate the parking. “The acting chief officer responsible for roads, Transport and public works should enforce vacation of the parking illegally operated by Metro Transit Company along the Northern Bypass,” reads the report.