Mwingi North MP Musyimi Nzengu has defended Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu against claims she is fueling tribal conflict between communities in Kitui and Kiambu counties. Kiambu leaders on Saturday asked IG Joseph Boinnet to arrest Ngilu for inciting Kitui youth against businesspeople from other counties. This was after a lorry transporting charcoal through Kitui was last Wednesday set ablaze by youths in Kitui. Read: Arrest Ngilu, Kiambu residents demand after charcoal lorry burnt However, Nzengu on Saturday said the Kiambu leaders acted out of emotions rather than sobriety and must be very careful over their actions and pronouncements. “I think it is an overreaction really. I don’t think Governor Ngilu said people should literally burn a lorry but of course it has happened in the past where even lorries carrying sand have been burnt,” Nzengu said. He said when people resist certain things, they do it with a lot of passion. The Kiambu leaders included deputy governor James Nyoro, Limuru MP Peter Mwathi and Limuru Central MCA Joseph Kahenya. Ngilu had on February 1 issued a directive banning all charcoal and sand businesses within the county to curb massive destruction of trees and rivers in Kitui, which has resulted in poor rains and perennial drought. “We cannot sit and watch while rogue people continue ruining our environment. We must put an end to illegal charcoal burning and sand harvesting in Kitui county from today,” Ngilu said. Youth in the county have since been stopping trucks carrying charcoal and sand passing through the county saying most have fake documents purporting to be collecting charcoal and sand from other counties like Tana River. On Saturday, Nzengu said Ngilu’s words were taken out of context and misinterpreted. “I don’t think it was targeted for any specific community. We do not what to aggravate the issue by making it an issue between Kitui county and Kiambu county or Kambas and Kikuyus,” said Nzengu. He said the burning of a lorry carrying charcoal in Kitui last Wednesday was an isolated case which was unfortunate and should not be repeated. Some people hire trucks to engage in unlawful activities exposing innocent businesspeople to damages and losses of great magnitude, he cautioned. “Ask whoever is hiring the lorry where it is going. If it is charcoal transportation, reject that business,” Nzengu said. Also read: Mwingi youths seize 220 bags of charcoal from lorry, cite Ngilu confiscation ‘order’   Click here for the latest political news