Kilifi MCAs plan to devolve the county Treasury so each department handle its own finances. The legislators also said on Sunday they will terminate the contract of Raindrops Limited, a private company mandated to collect revenue for 15 years for the county. The lawmakers cited low revenue collection. They spoke in Gongoni after a meeting to improve relations between the national and county government, Albert Kiraga, the budget committee chairman, said funds from the county Treasury were only paid to selective contractors, which was unfair to others. He said contractors in ministries such as roads with huge allocation get paid. The meeting was convened by Magarini MP Michael Kingi Kiraga said many projects have stalled, while other contractors are owed huge sums because of the centralised county finance system. Not even half target revenue “They choose who to pay. Big big contractors get Sh30 to Sh200 million while small projects like those in education requiring Sh1.5 to Sh3 million do not get paid,’’ he asserted. He accoused the Treasury of discrimination. Kiraga said ambulances and tractors are grounded for lack of maintenance funds from the county Treasury. The Gongoni ward rep said since 2013-2014, the county hasn’t collected half of the projected revenue. At one point the county wanted to collect Sh1 billion but got on Sh200 million,he said. He said the county has never been able to fulfill their projections despite the fact that there are a lot of resources. “We want to remove Raindrops, they get 30 per cent of revenue collected. If they collect Sh100 million, they get Sh30 Million and the county remains with Sh70 million,’’ he said. Departments in charge The county assembly deputy speaker Stanley Kenga said every departmental head should be involved in the budget making process. He said currently the focus is to ensure departments are in charge of their money to ensure service delivery is perfect to the people. During the meeting, heads of departments from Magarini complained that most of their proposals are turned down, making it difficult to deliver their mandate due to lack of funds. Click here for the latest political news