The majority of NASA governors and MPs gave Raila Odinga’s oath a wide berth, exposing what could be a sharp division in the alliance. About 90 close Raila allies kept off Tuesday’s Uhuru Park function, according to an official list of attendance titled “roll call of life and death” generated by the alliance. A paltry 57 MPs joined Raila in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, for the swearing-in, with 77 legislators keeping off the much-publicised event, which was also snubbed by NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. Most MPs from Wiper, Ford Kenya and ANC dominated the list of 77 MPs who gave the function a wide berth. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala (ANC) told the Star none of the NASA parties instructed its members to skip the event and that the 77 MPs who skipped made a personal decision. “I’m an ANC senator and I attended. It was not a party position, but an individual decision,” he said on the phone. The Star also established that there are plans to have Raila make countrywide tours to directly tell the people the way forward after being sworn-in. Raila’s first stop will be Western Kenya, where he will be introduced to the people, amid growing sentiments in the region against no-show Wetang’ula and Mudavadi. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri and Malala are said to be the planners of the tour. Malala said Wetang’ula and Mudavadi will be part of the tour. Interestingly, 127 MPs last week signed up the affidavit that supported the oath. Of NASA’s 17 elected governors, only two attended the event that was meant to be a national gathering of supporters and all its leaders. Only Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and Mombasa’s Hassan Joho were present as Raila took the oath as the “People’s President of the Republic of Kenya”. Kisumu Deputy Governor Ochieng’ Owili represented Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, who is recuperating abroad after successful hip surgery. Raila’s deputy in ODM Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), ODM’s national vice chairman Josphat Nanok (Turkana) and the party’s national treasurer James Ongwae (Kisii) topped the list of those who boycotted the event. Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Okoth Obado (Migori), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga), Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta), John Nyagarama (Nyamira), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) are the other county chiefs who did not turn up. Vocal former senators Johnson Muthama (Machakos) and Boni Khalwale (Kakamega) were also conspicuously absent. The two had been in the forefront pushing for a parallel presidential oath, claiming the IEBC and Jubilee colluded to deny Raila his August 8 presidential victory. Click here for the latest political stories 