Your Excellency, Comrade and Dear Brother, I write on behalf of all overjoyed Kenyans and indeed Africans who were
absolutely thrilled today to finally see you take the helm of the great
nation of South Africa. The excitement is particularly strong as there
is a conviction that you will restore the bright flame of leadership
that has diminished in the land of our dearest Nelson Mandela. All of Africa, now in so much need of inspirational figures, is
confident that with your dynamic past and leadership history, the recent
national and continental vacuum will shortly begin to be a thing of the
past. All African democrats are praying for your success, since no
other country’s leader anywhere in the world has the expectations of an
entire continent riding on him. So your election yesterday is a victory
not only for the African National Congress and South Africa but for all
those forces across the continent still fighting for the full democratic
and economic emancipation of all our people. More on SA: Ramaphosa takes over: The big issues facing South Africa's new president Also read: Zuma era lessons: Party machinations can hold democracies hostage I recall our
discussion a year ago when we were preparing to run for the leadership
of our respective political parties in Kenya and South Africa. We both
emphasised the imperative of renewed African democratisation as the
indispensable base for building a vibrant continental economy with an
equitable distribution of wealth as that alone would help contribute to
the global movement for moral and ethical leadership. You now have the
opportunity and honour to fulfill that vision, with my full support of
course. You were one of the pivotal architects who supported
our beloved Mandela in creating a South Africa that captured the
imagination of the entire world. It will not be easy to restore that
respect in our turbulent times, where a few take too much from their
countries and leave misery and instability in their trail. Knowing you as I do, I know you will forcefully pursue the challenge for
both South Africa as well as the continent, immense though it is. With
South Africa’s still vibrant global standing, I am confident you will
restore to it the high respect that it, and the continent, enjoyed under
the fabled leadership of Nelson Mandela in particular. As you
can no doubt imagine, Kenyans were electrified when they heard you twice
use our language Swahili and the phrase 'Not Yet Uhuru' to encapsulate
the challenges that still lie ahead if we are to fulfill the hope of
human dignity that our legendary freedom fighters nourished for every
African. They thought that only those in East Africa knew call to
action, coined and immortalized as it was by your friend and my late
father Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. With my sincere best wishes. Also read: Letter to H.E. Cyril Ramaphosa, President of South Africa, from H. E. Raila Amolo Odinga, People’s President, Republic of Kenya Click here for the latest political stories