I f you happened not to notice, though I can’t imagine how, Valentine’s Day was last week on Wednesday. On this day of dates, dimly lit dinners, chocolates and roses, many felt the warm glow of love that on this promising day is often draped in red. There are those, however, who saw an altogether different sort of red on Wednesday. When I say a different sort of red, I mean finally plucking up the courage to step up to that girl you’ve obsessed over for months, possibly even years, only for her to reject your love. And by reject, I mean you got your heart handed to you on a plate; chopped up and shallow-fried. Nothing malicious on her part, mind you. She likes you, she said, but only as a friend. Ouch! Understandably, you’re still shell-shocked from the rejection. You’re gutted, naturally, but what’s worse is you can’t get her out of your mind; you’ve never been able to. Thing is bruh, you need to get over this girl, and this obsession. Good news is, it can be done. The bad news, it won’t be easy and it won’t be quick. And in case you’re not quite sure whether you just like this girl, or you’re obsessed, here’s a quick checklist. She’s all you think about? Check. You keep tabs on her daily schedule on social media and try to find ways to bump into her? Check. You pretend to be interested in crap she likes but you couldn’t care less otherwise? Check. And finally, you’re totally desperate? Check. There, you’re obsessed. Now, how to get over it. The very first thing you do is become selfish. When you’re obsessed with a girl, your life is focused on her. Everything you do is about her. Becoming selfish gets your mind off her, and onto you. I’m talking taking up a new hobby, working out more at the gym, anything that spells “new life direction focused on you” will do. The second thing is tell a friend. Guys naturally have a problem expressing their feelings. Luckily, if you’re obsession is bad enough, you’ll break and spill it all out to a close friend. Trust me, saying it out loud to a friend will leave you feeling better, and it’s saner than mumbling and talking to yourself because you were friend-zoned. Number three. Stay away from her. Don’t hang out with her, don’t go anywhere near where she drinks coffee, or eats lunch, and if she’s a colleague you work next to, talk to your boss about moving you to another office. You don’t have to be nasty about it, you’re just limiting proximity to avoid falling in love with her all over again. It’s self-preservation. Fourth. Activate social media force field around yourself. Don’t text, no emojis, do not “like” her latest selfie on Facebook. In fact, better you avoid engaging in social media for a while, because whatever you’re posting will be, subconsciously, meant to impress her. Last but not least, kill all hope that she’ll change her mind and like you the way you like her. Hope will get you back to square one, obsession, and you don’t want that.  Take note: An obsession is a way for damaged people to damage themselves more — Mark Barrowcliffe