Some politicians from Mt Elgon have differed with the county security team on the increased killings in the area. The politicians are blaming police laxity and poor response when alarm is raised. On the other hand, the security team has accused residents of failing to give crucial leads to police so they can make arrests. A gang has been terrorising residents in the past few months, leading to the death of more than 20 people. Outgoing Bungoma county commsioner Joshua Chepchieng on Tuesday accused residents of hiding criminals and failing to give crucial information that would lead to arrests. “We have tried our best to tame the increasing insecurity, but we can’t work alone. It has been hard to get information from residents,” he said. He said despite profiling the gang, it has been hard to arrest them, because the residents who harbour them are very secretive. “Mt Elgon residents should own the problem facing them and accept that these criminals are their own sons. They should flush them out or volunteer information that will help the security agencies deal with them,” Chepchieng said. The commissioner also dispelled fears the gang causing havoc is a resurgence of the dreaded Sabaot Land Defence Force militia. He said the gang is made up of criminals who just want to attack and rob residents. The criminal gang has caused panic and residents expressed fears it could be a resurgence of the SLDF. The SLDF caused the death of more than 1,200 people and displaced 10,000 others between 2002 and 2007. The group was later dismantled by a joint military and police operation called Operation Okoa Maisha. But five MCAs have accused the commissioner of being asleep on the job. Led by Chepyuk MCA Simwoto Franklin, they said residents are reluctant to give police information, because they believe "police are working with the criminals". “We want to be categorical that our people fear giving information, because every time they give iformation, they are sold out and the criminals come for revenge missions,” he said. Simwoto also said police have been slow in responding to residents alarm. The MCAs said the only way to end insecurity in the region is to deploy police reservists who are locals. He said residents will trust them.   