In a move
targeted at enhancing revenue collections and enforcing compliance, the concept
of withholding value added tax (WHVAT) was reintroduced via the Finance Act
2014. Simply put, WHVAT places a burden on appointed WHVAT agents to withhold
and remit VAT at the rate of six per cent - of the taxable value - at the time of making
payments to their suppliers. Ideally, through this mechanism, the revenue
authority would ensure that leakages in the VAT net would be minimised.
Suppliers who would previously attempt to game the system by not remitting VAT
to the KRA seem to be the intended targets of this mechanism. However, on
implementation of WHVAT it was noted that there were key scenarios whereby
WHVAT tended to adversely affect suppliers. Particularly, WHVAT as
reintroduced, failed to effectively consider the impact that the mechanism
would have on suppliers faced with a continuous credit position. Suppliers, in
order to arrive at the VAT to be remitted to the revenue authority, are
required to net off VAT on taxable purchases (input tax) against VAT on taxable
sales (output tax). Any excess output tax is due for onward remission to the
KRA by the 20th day of the following month. As VAT is a consumption
tax borne by the final consumer, this system ensures that VAT, rather than
being a tax burden to the supplier, is passed onward to the final consumer.
WHVAT, however, throws a spanner in the works. By requiring
WHVAT agents to withhold and remit VAT at six per cent on payments to their relevant
suppliers, the process of determining a supplier’s VAT position is tampered
with. Ideally, suppliers making taxable supplies (either standard rated or
exempt supplies) should not be affected. However, suppliers making zero-rated
supplies, or mixed supplies (both taxable and zero-rated suppliers) stand to be
affected. In many instances, the latter suppliers tend to have more input VAT
as compared to output VAT – leaving them in a VAT credit position. WHVAT
thereby places an unfair burden on those in perpetual VAT credit positions, who
would ideally not remit VAT to KRA, to suffer VAT at six per cent. With this in
mind, the Finance Act 2017 entitled suppliers to exemption from WHVAT, provided
that certain criteria are met. This was later followed by WHVAT guidelines
released by the revenue authority highlighting the relevant criteria. In order
to qualify for exemption from WHVAT, a burden is placed on suppliers to
adequately demonstrate to the Commissioner of Domestic Taxes that application
of WHVAT would likely result in a continuous credit position for 24 months or
more. This measure not
only ensures that the KRA prevents VAT leakages through the WHVAT mechanism,
but further protects suppliers from potential adverse tax implications of the
same mechanism. It is hoped that going forward, similar loopholes and
inefficiencies in the taxation system will be expeditiously weeded out. 