Circumcision is a surgical procedure that removes the foreskin covering the glans (rounded tip) of the male organ. Circumcision of babies, medically known as early infant medical male circumcision (EIMC), is not traditionally practised in Kenya. However, the government prioritises it in the Second National Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Strategy 2014-19. It aims “to circumcise at least 40 percent of male infants who come into contact with EIMC-providing facilities within 60 days after birth by 2019.” A major health benefit is that it reduces the risk of contracting HIV by 60 per cent later in life. The Impact Research and Development Organisation has taken it upon itself to promote the male cut in Kenya. It is a local NGO best known for spearheading medical male circumcision in Nyanza, a traditionally non-circumcising region. The organisation is currently piloting infant circumcision in Kisumu and Homa Bay counties, offering the service for free. IRDO has conducted about 2,000 operations on pilot basis in the two counties since 2016. But uptake is a tall order. In 2016, “The Mtoto Msafi Mbili (Clean Child II) Study”, canvassing 16 health facilities in Homa Bay, found that fewer than one in three parents were likely to have their baby boys circumcised at that age. The study was funded by the University of Illinois at Chicago, and most researchers were affiliated to the Nyanza Reproductive Health Society, a non-governmental health research organisation based in Kisumu. “It is likely to take several years and allocation of substantial resources before rates of EIMC uptake may achieve targets of 40 per cent or higher,” said the researchers. The results were published in Plos One journal last September. “Pain and protection from HIV were the most frequently cited barrier and facilitator to EIMC,” said Prof Jaoko Godfrey, a university of Nairobi physician who took part in the study. CONDITIONS FOR CUT IRDO nursing officer Tindlis Onyango assures that the procedure is safe, if done under the right conditions. Onyango has performed about 30 procedures since IRDO arrived in Homa Bay in February last year. He regularly visits health facilities to recruit young mothers, but says it is not easy to convince them. “Babies must be less than 60 days old. Pre-terms cannot be circumcised until they meet the criteria to be discharged from the hospital, which includes weighing more than 2.5kg,” he says. Babies from families with a history of bleeding will not be circumcised until tests are done to make sure the child does not have that problem. “Finally we must get the consent of the parents and then the operation can be done,” he adds. Most studies show the benefits of the procedure outweigh the risks. “Some of the immediate benefits are that circumcised children cannot develop phimosis, a condition where the foreskin is too tight and affects the stream of urine,” Onyango said. This can result in infection. “The procedure is simpler because at that age, the foreskin is thinner and less vascular, so they heal faster and complication rates are lower,” he added. INCLUSION IN POLICY The National Aids and STIs Control Programme (Nascop) directs all HIV prevention services in Kenya. Nascop boss Dr Bartilol Kigen says they now encourage EIMC to sustain the current male circumcision momentum. “Kenya is the leading country in Africa in voluntary medical male circumcision. In VMMC (voluntary medical male circumcision), we targeted people 15 years and above, but now we are going to infants, to sustain the numbers and increase coverage,” he says. “The same health benefits afforded circumcised men later in life accrue to those circumcised in infancy.” Dr Kigen says the trial exercise in Homa Bay and Kisumu will help the government develop a policy to guide infant circumcision in public health facilities. The government will then integrate infant circumcision into the existing maternal neonatal child health programmes. “Parents will access this as one of the child health services offered in clinics. But we need to develop policy first and then health facilities can offer it as a regular service,” he says.