A 12-year-old boy has been held hostage in a Kitale hospital for more than one year over Sh859,700 bill. Kelly Wanjala was admitted at Crystal Cottage Hospital on February 5 last year after he went down with pneumonia and malaria. He was discharged on February 17 last year. At that time, the bill was Sh47,000. The hospital has agreed that the parents pay only Sh47,000 and the rest was to be waived, but it has since backtracked and wants the whole amount paid. When he was admitted, doctors in government hospitals were on strike. He was at the time under the care of his aunt. The boy's mother and father had separated back in 2009, leaving him in the custody of his aunt. Wanjala was then a Standard Four pupil at Koykoy Primary School in Kiminini constituency. He has now missed a whole education year. The hospital management says it is concerned about his education but cannot release him before the bill is cleared. His aunt had no money and she left Wanjala in the hospital. The hospital management later on traced the boy's parents Edward Makhanu and Annette Nanjala on August 29 last year. They were both charged with child negligence and were given a noncustodial sentence of one year. "We purposely gave them a noncustodial sentence to allow them time to look for the money," an official at the probation office in Kitale, who sought anonymity, said. Speaking to the Star at the hospital on Thursday, Makhanu said he has no stable source of income and he is unable to raise the whole amount at once. He has signed an agreement with the hospital, stating he should clear the Sh47,000 which was the amount to be paid when Wanjala was discharged. On December 4, Makhanu paid Sh5,000, but the hospital could not release his son. "From there, I went and sold a piece of land that I had and I was able to pay Sh42,000 on February 5, bringing the total amount paid to Sh47,000," he said. The hospital, however, refused to let the boy go and said the parents have to clear the remaining balance of Sh788,300, which contradicted the agreement that was signed on December 4. Makhanu said the hospital referred him to their lawyer to make a commitment that he will be paying Sh15,000 every month until the bill is cleared. He told the lawyer he is unable to raise that kind of money every month. Makhanu told the Star he was asked by the lawyer to sell his son to the hospital, if he cannot raise the amount, which he declined. Hospital director Elizabeth Usagi on Thursday said the lawyer was only playing the role of enforcement. "We are concerned that Wanjala has not been going to school,  there is a procedure to follow and he cannot be released just like that. We want him out, but the bill has to be cleared," she said on the phone. "At the end of the day we have a board and everything has to be presented clearly for auditing. This is a bad debt." But yesterday when asked to comment of the lawyer saying the boy should be sold to the hospital, she said, "I'm taking that as an insult. I'm unwell. You should come to my office we talk." Wanjala said he had to adapt the life of of the hospital but he wants to go home. "I miss home. I miss school and I miss my friends. I long to get out of this place," he said. "I get sad when other kids are admitted and get discharged, leaving me here." A women's organisation in Trans Nzoia women that advocates for the rights of women, children and the vulnerable has urged the government to intervene. "The boy's rights are being violated. He needs to associate with the real world, not with patients at the hospital," official Grace Esiabi said. They said they have alerted the Children's Department to follow up on the matter.