The private sector has shown signs of overcoming a tough operating environment in the second half of 2017. According to the latest Stanbic Bank Kenya Purchasing Managers Index, the sector has recorded a solid improvement in its operating environment. The PMI shows the latest index reading for the sector was recorded at 52.9 from 53.0 in December. Despite the drop, the reading was the second-highest figure in just over a year. Readings above 50.0 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while read- ings below 50.0 is a decline. HORTICULTURE “Output rose to its highest level since January 2016, a trend we suspect is likely to persist over the coming year. Notably, the contraction we saw in the agriculture sub-sector in the first half of 2017 is likely to reverse in the half of 2018, which should subse- quently provide tailwinds for other sectors to flourish,” Stanbic regional economist Jibran Qureishi said. “Furthermore, the horticulture and floriculture sub-sectors should also perform well over the coming months largely underpinned by the ongoing recovery in the Eurozone as well as the recent appreciation of the EUR currency. We retain our GDP estimate for 2017 at 4.8 per cent but we see a recovery to 5.6 per cent in 2018.” RAW MATERIALS The index attributed the solid growth to a rise in new orders that stemmed from a greater client demand. Similarly, the birth of new export opportunities led to the growth. On the price front, overall input costs rose at a sharp rate largely driv- en by a marked increase in purchase prices. Survey respondents largely stated that greater raw material costs were due to higher market prices for raw materials, especially fuel. Staffing costs also rose, but only at a marginal rate. Although the rate of growth softened slightly from December’s 11-month high, the expansion re- mained strong overall. The survey indicated that pur- chasing activity increased steeply in January while the rate of growth in buying accelerated to the strongest in over a year. 