Water CS nominee Simon Chelugui on Friday dismissed accusations that he breached a contract to drill water for a private school in Nairobi. Responding to a sworn affidavit by one Anne W. Wado, the proprietor of St Elizabeth Academy, Karen, he told the vetting committee that the allegations were false and Wado has never contacted him or reported to police. “She has never communicated the matter to me. Neither has her lawyer written to me. It is malice for political reasons,” Chelugui told the Committee on Appointments chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, at County Hall, Nairobi. In her affidavit, Wado said her school entered into an agreement with Chelugui to drill a borehole in the school in Dagoretti constituency for Sh959,505. She says the school paid him a Sh500,000 down payment and the balance would be paid upon completion. When the money was deposited in Chelugui’s account, he vanished and her attempts to reach to him were in vain, Wado said. “We saw him recently in the Nation newspaper being nominated as the CS for Water and Irrigation. According to Chapter Six of the Constitution, he does not have the capacity to hold public office for lack of integrity,” she said. But Chelugui, who was the director of Pennlly Construction and Engineering Ltd, told the committee that Wado was the one who breached the terms of the contract. He said she would have lodged complaints with relevant dispute bodies to deal with the matter if she were genuine. “I’ve never been summoned by police for a probe. This matter came up during the last election, where it was written in the newspapers. It was all politics. But I’m ready for any challenge,” he told the committee that concluded its vetting on Friday. Chelugui promised that should the committee approve his name and President Uhuru Kenyatta appoint him, he will ensure availability of water in cities and towns so residents do not suffer. He said he would use his knowledge of the sector to ensure all 65 water firms in the country are empowered to provide clean water at cheaper prices. “Water should be cheaper than fuel. I’ll ensure Kenyans get water at the nearest point,” Chelugui promised. Read:Amina, Tobiko, Chelugui thank Uhuru for Cabinet jobs Click here for the latest political news