Jubilee rebel MPs plan to launch a grass roots campaign in the Rift Valley against stage managing of President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession in 2022. Deputy President William Ruto's allies are split in two camps. The rebels are seen to be independent-minded while another group is perceived to be of sycophants. Twelve rebel MPs will today join Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter for a homecoming and prayer meeting at Koitalel Samoei Museum in Nandi Hills. They will announce their new political strategy. The lawmakers will address their supporters in Eldoret after the Nandi Hills meeting. Last Friday, Keter was arrested alongside businessmen Arthur Sakwa and Madat Chatur for allegedly trying to redeem fake Sh633 million Treasury Bills. They denied the charges of conspiring to defraud the Centra Bank of Kenya on Monday and were released on Sh2 million bail each. Keter insists he is innocent and is being fixed because of his political stand. “No matter what happens, I will not be scared. I will always stand for the truth," Keter told the Star on the phone yesterday. He confirmed today's meeting in Nandi where he would explain to his supporters what transpired when he was arrested. Keter is seen as leader of the rebel MPs, but he disagrees. He said,"I not leading any camp. I will work like-minded friends to fight for truth and justice." MPs perceived to be in Keter’s camp include Joshua Kuttuny (Cherangany), Sila Tiren (Moiben), Bowen Kangogo (Marakwet East), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), and Samwel Moroto (Kapenguria). They are largely a group of young leaders, sources in the camp said they are looking to shape the region's politics ahead of the 2022 poll. Last week Kuttuny issued a hard-hitting statement over Keter's arrest. He and some politicians from the Rift Valley warned President Uhuru Kenyatta that his legacy would be dented if state agencies continued disrespecting the rule of law. They condemned Keter's arrest, saying it is an attempt to intimidate and silence the legislator. Kuttuny and Moroto said they are not happy with the route Uhuru's administration is taking and the "Rift Valley is watching". "I want to tell my good friend Uhuru that building roads, installing electricity or connecting water to every home will not earn him a name," Kuttuny said. "You will only leave a legacy by respecting the rule of law. We are not happy with you Mr President and the entire Rift Valley is watching." "How are we supposed to explain to our people what is happening to one of us. Please adhere to the rule of law and stop intimidating leaders using police," Kuttuny added. Tiren told the Star yesterday Keter's arrest sent the wrong signals to Jubilee supporters in Rift Valley. Some of the Rift Valley legislators believe that Keter’s arrest could be part of an external scheme by some individuals to fan trouble for the DP and destabilise him ahead of 2022. “Our support for the DP is steadfast and non-negotiable. But we stand for the truth and tell it as its so that some people with shady schemes do not joke around with sensitive issues”, Kuttuny told the Star yesterday. The rift emerged last month when Keter, Kangogo and Tiren snubbed DP Rutto's orders to resign from top positions in parliamentary committees. Jubilee wanted the positions taken over by MPs from other regions under a power sharing plan. The President directed Jubilee MPs to kick out the three MPs from the positions. During a prayer meeting in Turbo last Sunday, some Rift Valley leaders declared their full support for the DP. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who is a close friend to Keter, together with Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei said the region would remain in Jubilee and back Ruto to succeed Kenyatta. Leaders who have not spoken out against Keter's tribulations are being considered as sycophants, who fear speaking out their minds. The DP Ruto’s closest allies include Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Soy MP Caleb Kostany.