DID Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju unilaterally write to Chief Justice David Maraga to complain about the country's courts being biased in favour of the National Super Alliance? Well, a group of Jubilee MPs and leaders is “silently” complaining that the SG 'imposed' his personal opinion about the Judiciary on the ruling party. A little bird told Corridors the letter was not sanctioned by the ruling party. Well, you never know nowadays with Jubilee’s modus operandi, but it is unlikely the party top brass could have been in the dark. ***** THE suspicious relationship between NASA MPs is escalating day by day. In the corridors of power, the differences between the Opposition MPs is so loud that some have started avoiding each other. Some ODM legislators were overheard wondering how the State withdrew official vehicles assigned to House leaders from the ODM wing of NASA and left those assigned to the Ford Kenya ones — Senate Minority leader Moses Wetang’ula and deputy Minority Whip in the National Assembly Chris Wamalwa, among others. They claimed Jubilee could be using the State machine to “finish NASA”. ***** Some Rift Valley Jubilee MPs are very angry with the manner their two leaders are micro-managing members. Word has it that President Uhuru Kenyatta's stern warning to MPs who fail to attend future meetings at Tuesday’s Parliamentary Group meeting has not gone down well with the Rift Valley lawmakers. Our mole has told Corridors that the agitated MPs were heard vowing not to bow to party dictatorship, saying they were duly elected by their constituents. One said they were contemplating teaming up with Kanu chairman Gideon Moi to support his 2022 presidential bid if Jubilee does not change. ***** ARE some NASA MPs heeding self-proclaimed NRM General Miguna Miguna's “directive” that Opposition leaders bring down President Uhuru Kenyatta's portraits from their offices? Well, Corridors has learnt that some NASA MPs do not have the portraits in their Continental House offices, despite their been freely provided to them after they were sworn in in September last year. Days before his arrest, Miguna had ordered NRM stalwarts to pull down the President’s portrait. ***** ARE some Jubilee MPs resisting the party leadership’s directive to support the lineup of Beth Mugo (nominated), Adan Keynan (Eldas) and Naomi Shaban (Taveta) for the Parliamentary Service Commission? “Why do we have to retain these people yet we have other competitive MPs who can take up the positions?” an MP whispered to Corridors. They claim the team from the 11th Parliament did not deserve reelection to the plum positions.  Click here for the latest political news