Turtles in Lamu are under siege for the weirdest reasons. Fishermen are killing them not just for meat and soup but also because they believe turtle fat holds the key to curing asthma, flu and even impotence. And those are not the only perceived medicinal benefits. Resident Amir Hussein says turtle oil keeps fishermen warm when fishing at night, when temperatures at sea are extremely cold. “You just take a handful of turtle oil and apply on your face, neck, arms and legs, and you are good to endure a whole night of cold, however bad it is. The oil makes you feel like you are wearing a coat,” Hussein says. Fishermen also believe that turtle oil, when applied on their faces, can keep them underwater for longer as they dive to hunt for edible sea creatures, which they later sell to hotels or use for subsistence. Such beliefs have put Lamu conservationists on high alert, as the turtle population dwindles. They are doing all they can to save the turtle from extinction. Nutritionist Charles Mwashighadi of the Lamu County Hospital says claims that turtle meat and fat are of medicinal value are “a false belief and a myth”. “There are many nutritional ways to cure asthma, erectile dysfunction and other illnesses. There is no scientific link between turtle meat and these conditions,” he says. CHANGING MINDSETS To counter the onslaught on turtles, the Lamu branch of Kenya Wildlife Service is coming up with measures to stem the trend. Working with the World Wide Fund for Nature, it is educating the local community to help conserve the reptiles. Senior KWS warden Mathias Mwavita says the turtle population in Lamu and worldwide is dwindling. He calls for concerted efforts to save them from extinction. He says there is a real and growing danger that the turtle could go the dinosaur way if mentalities concerning the sea reptile are not changed. Mwavita says together with WWF, they have handpicked beach operators, fishermen and members of the community. “We are teaching them the benefits of conserving turtles. We tell them to be the number one protectors of turtles. We have put the beach operators into groups and taught them how best to take care of turtles whenever they come across them, instead of killing them or selling them,” Mwavita says. Initially, fishermen would count their blessings whenever their nets caught a turtle, but thanks to constant campaigns by the KWS and WWF, they now know it is better to put the turtle back into the water and allow it to swim away. Lamu fisherman Abdulnassir Kiumbe says, “In the past, catching just one turtle was enough for one to wrap up their nets and go back home, since we would sell it at a good fee. We did all that not knowing we were in fact endangering the turtles. “Now we are wiser. We watch out for the turtle and always put it back in the water. We no longer eat turtles. After all, the ocean has enough food already.” Mwavita says the KWS and WWF hold frequent meetings with the community and discuss any unusual trends or brainstorm on ideas to protect turtles He says they partner with the WWF because it is better placed to articulate the threat of extinction facing the turtle if the killing spree continues. “As KWS, we didn’t really know much about the figures, in as far as the threat facing the turtle is concerned, and obviously there was a need for interventions. That’s when the WWF came in handy. We are glad the partnership has yielded positive results and the turtle population is slowly stabilising,” Mwavita says. TURTLE ISLAND In Lamu, Rubu island has become renowned as a turtle site, where turtles come and lay eggs. Rubu is loved by turtles because of its favourable temperatures, and the fact that it is situated miles away from the other islands inhabited by humans. That’s why the WWF set up a mini base there. A team of experts takes turns in watching over the turtles that flock to this tiny island. Mike Olendo of WWF-Lamu says the routine is tiring, lonely and taxing, but adds that it’s necessary. The team literally watch over turtles who come to lay eggs. They sit and wait until the eggs hatch, after which they also ensure the young turtles safely find their way into the Indian ocean and swim away. “The team at Rubu works in weekly turns. While at the camp, they also work in day and night shifts to keep an eye on the turtles, the eggs and hatchlings. There are so many predators and you need to be alert always,” Olendo says. “When a turtle is scared, it will lay its eggs very close to the shoreline. This makes them vulnerable, especially since they can easily be swept off by heavy currents or eaten by predators.” Such predators include giant ocean crabs, birds and other wild creatures. In such situations, the team has to carefully lift the eggs to a different location in 24 hours. QUIRKY BREEDING Olendo says their work is sometimes hindered by fishermen who, unaware of the conservation efforts, continue to hunt and kill turtles. It’s in this respect that the WWF decided to scientifically monitor and manage turtles from Rubu island. “One funny thing with a turtle is that it will always swim back to lay eggs in the exact spot where it was hatched, no matter how far it will be. It’s an unexplainable phenomenon. Only nature knows why. They come back from as far as South Africa, lay eggs, then disappear again,” Olendo says. The team now has a mandate to ensure every single turtle that comes to lay eggs on the island is tagged with a chipped, battery-run transmitter for easy monitoring via satellite. The satellite tags have now enabled the conservators to easily keep record of turtles’ migratory routes and the speed with which they travel. They have managed to tag and monitor over 400 turtles. The turtle lays eggs only three times a year, after every 12 days, and mostly in the months of May, June and July. “Turtles will always come back to lay eggs at the exact spot where it was hatched. It will also lay at the exact month and hour that it lay the last time. We therefore need to conserve and protect the nestlings so when time comes to lay, there are no alterations or anything that could make the turtle decide to wander off in search of another new nest,” said Hassan Mohamed, a turtle conservator in Kiunga. The survival rate of the turtle hatchlings is so low that in every 1,000 turtle eggs hatched, only 10 survive to become adult turtles. He says apart from human danger, turtles face an even bigger danger deep in the waters. “Sometimes they are caught up inside the boat engines and crushed to death. Sometimes the newly hatched baby turtles are eaten by bigger fish as they struggle to adapt to sea life,” Mohamed says.