Former Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi has dismissed claims he was defeated in the war on cartels. Kaimenyi said on Tuesday that a lot of progress was made during his tenure at Ardhi House in Nairobi. "I am surprised that people keep on saying I was defeated in containing cartels. That is not true. It is just a figment of peoples' imagination. We have done so much to fight the cartels," he said. He spoke on Monday while handing over to veteran journalist Farida Karoney who declared she will fight the groupings to the end. Kaimenyi is heading to the Permanent Mission of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Paris. More on this: I'll crush all land cartels, Farida Karoney pledges during vetting The former Cabinet Secreatry regretted that people focus on negativity instead of development. But he admitted that the ministry had been at loggerheads with the National Lands Commission which is chaired by Mohammed Swazuri. Due to the wrangles, he said, it became impossible to implement laws passed in 2014. He also spoke of staff resistance and said the cartels somehow crippled the activities of the ministry but that they identified mechanisms that helped them safeguard operations. The former Minister mentioned "major milestones" including land survey and registration. Kaimenyi said they dissolved all land control boards as part of efforts to reform them. The decision was made after it was established that most of the officials had served for too long and that there was male domination and lack of expertise. He added: "They were earning a sitting allowance of Sh500 which we increased to Sh2,500 and introduced a transport allowance. With this, we expect the boards to do better." Kaimenyi reported that the ministry also managed to develop the national spatial plan which has put all resources under one roof. "We also developed a national land use policy meant to provide legal, administrative, institutional and technological frameworks for optimal utilisation and production of land," he said. "This is a key document which I wish you would launch in the shortest time possible." Kaimenyi challenged Karoney to map IDP camps so the people are effectively resettled as this is an expensive task that requires consolidation of efforts. On title deeds, he noted the Jubilee government promised to issue 13 million document but had only given three million by the end of 2017. "Madam CS, you should endeavour to settle the squatters. If possible let them have their own title deeds. I know it is not easy but with the support of all the staff here all will be possible," he told Karoney. The former Minister noted "great need" to establish a land bank for investors to feel secure as speculators will be done away with. He said this while emphasising the protection of investors from fraud as costs rise when people learn of the government's development plans in particular areas. Kaimenyi also asked Karoney to ensure enforcement of the Community Land Act which covers how to manage community land and issue compensation for it. The new CS acknowledged that land issues are emotive and pledged to do her best to resolve historical injustices in line with the report of the Trust, Justice and Reconciliation Committee. "We are ready to even sleep in the office so as to deliver services to the people. Maybe communication wasn't clear at the ministry ... I am not worried about cartels and resistance by staff. We shall make it if we all  agree to serve the people," she said. Karoney asked the commission and workers to forget their past difference and cooperate. "If I step on your shoe let it not be blown out of context. We are all human so we shall collide at one time or the other. There are only a few issues on which we don’t agree so let's look for solutions and's focus on areas in which we agree." Related: Resign if you can't deliver, Tobiko says as Wakhungu hands over Click here for the latest political news