There is too much following and less leadership in our generation. I think of Jesus and the Prophet Mohammed’s generation, in comparison to the 20th and 21st centuries, and there is an obvious deficit of bravery and a widely supported form of leadership. There are few examples of men and women whose forms of leadership cut across religion, race, nationality, tribe and class. Christianity and Islam have the largest following due, in my opinion, to the exceptional forms of leadership shown by their pioneers. I do not look at this from a religious perspective but rather a humanity perspective. That it was due to their belief in a different and better society that they gained credence. The leadership of this century is separated into political, economic and social spheres. The most profound leader is the one in the political sphere due to the intrinsic nature that politics plays in the other areas. The nature of politics in this century is that it has created antagonism among peoples. It has taken the shape of deliberate division along identity lines — a grave condition of blubberlike and swollen ignobility heedless of a higher life. Policies are geared more towards the interests of class, tribes, nations or states rather than common approaches. This can be evidenced by the rate at which humans are getting back to their comfort zones and resorting to the easier option in issues such as protectionist trade policies, immigration, refugees and integration. This notwithstanding the amount of effort that has gone into building diplomatic and friendly relations amongst countries. It could be a paradox when we seek to move forward and get sophisticated in areas such as agriculture, industries, transport, digital markets, communication, lifestyle and fashion, yet one area that seems to be less advanced is integration. The lack of it is the greatest challenge that our generation must overcome. It is unnerving to hear people being urged to go back to “their roots” and are said to “be lost in other cultures”. These are not words used to advance technology, transport and markets, where the aim is always to find new and better ways that will change the landscape and have an impact on generations to come. We must create a world where cultural integration is the bedrock of economic and political unity among various peoples for an assured stability and security of our nations. This ought to be done step by step, where stereotypes are killed, and people begin having an interest in learning about other people. That there should be a genuine concern about the state of the world, which can only be solved when people come together through a radical approach to cultural integration. Considering the issues facing this century, this seems almost impossible and too much work but it must be done. We must create more awareness across continents that we are born in a certain place but this should not limit our interactions as human beings and states. The intended consequence is: a world that embraces difference, whether religious or cultural; a more stable political environment; friendlier economic and trade policies; a more secure world, hence, sustainable peaceful resolutions and frameworks; and, eventually, more fun and beauty in the interactions amongst various peoples. The clarion call therefore is to join the movement #KnowYourWorldInitiative and make our generation stand out in creating a more integrated world for future generations. Managing director, Centre for International and Security Affairs   