Bar owners in Nyamira town have asked the police to intensify security patrols and end insecurity in the area. On Sunday, the bar owners who operate different joints within town complained of persistent attacks especially during the night in the recent past. There complain comes after a number of unknown gangs attacked several bars on Saturday night and made away with several goodies and cash, hence raising security concern within the town. “Armed gangsters attacked us on Saturday night and made away with money amounting to Sh.92,000, beer and electronics, we are therefore calling for security and regular patrols as we conduct our businesses, or else we will boycott paying for licenses,” said Polycarp Nyakundi who owns a bar in town. Nyakundi attributed the increased cases of insecurity in the area to lazy police officers who are not conducting patrols up to late hours where he urged the county commissioner to enhance patrols for them to conduct their businesses without fear. “We are calling on the county commissioner to ensure more police officers are deployed in the area to beef up security especially at night since it is the time when gangs take over when police are not at work,” said Geoffrey Michael who was also affected by the Saturday night attack. The bar owners said they are forced to close their business at 6 Pm before the deadly gangsters start to operate, which has caused fear among them leading to losses to their businesses. “These thieves and gangs start robbing especially traders as from 6 pm and that is the reason why we fear operating until late hours as we are not fully convinced about the security measures in place to ensure we run our business smoothly,” Polycarp Nyakundi noted. Last week Nyamira County Commissioner Isaiah Nakoru said all the bars operating until late night should acquire license to do so were the bar owners said they thought it was a move to ensure they are provided with security but they are still suffering. “We were directed to acquire the license to operate until midnight but no security measures to enable us do so,” they said.