The TSC policy requiring school heads to work outside their home counties after nine years faces challenges, its CEO told a House committee yesterday. The commission plans to sort out issues in time, CEO Nancy Macharia said. The delocalisation policy is meant to improve school management, infuse new ideas and keep school heads from getting too complacent and cozy with their home community. It is marred by controversy, however, over recent transfers of more than 500 teachers, which some education players described as ill-conceived and biased. Some communities refused the new school heads and physically ejected them. The committee demanded answers. Read : Maranda principal Boaz Owino transferred as TSC effects major reshuffle “This was a new policy. The challenges we’re experiencing will be streamlined as time goes by,” Macharia said. She expressed concern that the issue has been politicised. The commission is having a hard time undertaking reforms to improve teaching, Macharia said. “The PSC, the NPS and other public commissions have been undertaking reforms and transfers, but I did not hear any of them being politicised until it got to teachers,” she said. TSC’s new regulations provide that a school head will serve a maximum of nine years in one institution before being relocated. Macharia dismissed claims of bias, saying teachers were transferred not very far from their home areas. She said the mapping exercise that guided the transfers divided the country into — the Western side, and the Eastern and Central side. The counties with security problems were exempted. Macharia said non-locals were posted to schools within cosmopolitan areas. She said teachers with health conditions will be dealt with individually. Macharia requested more funds to help them employ and promote more teachers, and sought MPs’ support. The TSC can only hire 5,000 teachers annually against a shortage of 104,000, she said. Some schools’ heads are the only TSC-posted teachers, she said. Macharia proposed to the committee to stop opening new schools to help ease the teacher shortage. Click here for the latest political news