KDF soldiers in Operation Linda Boni have been providing medical treatment to residents in three counties after frequent raids by al Shabaab closed three health facilities. The KDF soldiers treat residents of Lamu, Tana River and Garissa free of charge. Some health facilities were closed almost four years ago. The dispensaries in Milimani, Basuba and Mangai have never been reopened since 2014 after staff fled for their lives. This has led to many expectant mothers and children to lose their lives for lack of treatment. The KDF has set up a medical camp at Kotile and Masalani dispensaries, all located within the Boni Forest. They have treated more than 200 people. The dispensaries are run by medical experts and doctors from the KDF. They open twice a week on Mondays and Wednesdays. The Operation Linda Boni was launched in September 2015 to flush out al Shabaab militants hiding deep in the Boni Forest and launching attacks from there. Militants looted, vandalised and torched somefacilities. Health workers have fled. strengthen bond Assistant Inspector General and police commander in charge of the operation Douglas Kirocho yesterday said the soldiers has saved many lives. The soldiers have to juggle their usual security duties and ensuring they offer much-needed medical care. Kirocho said medical care also strengthens the bond and trust between the community and KDF. “Our main objective is to enhance livelihoods here by providing security. We have dispatched a medical team from the KDF to areas like Kotile and Masalani. We issued referrals for cases we couldn’t handle,” he said. Kirocho said KDF plans to sink water pans in these areas to help deal with the drought. Residents have urged the state to ensure all dispensaries are reopened. “We are grateful to the KDF for helping us. We are glad that they put their guns down to attend to our sick people,” Boni elder Ali Gubo said. He also appealed to the government to set up maternity facilities. “We have lost so many mothers and babies because of the violence and lack of health facilities,” Gubo said.