I have encountered varying sentiments regarding Kenyan media coverage of the 2017 general election. In response, I set about a mini investigation of my own to ascertain the facts upon which to base this important discussion going forward. I have spent a great deal of time reviewing media clips – print, electronic and digital coverage of the election, the general conclusion, while not a surprise and not entirely negative, certainly rouses considerable disappointment given the trade’s unequivocal code of ethical conduct and professionalism. The media’s essence is to inform - collating public interest and news stories and broadcasting the same, keeping the public up to date on current affairs. In this role, it shapes public awareness and perception of society; from matters governance, service delivery, economy and social welfare amongst others. Over and above awareness creation, through tone of reporting and content policy or coverage choices, the media sets the agenda for public debate and discourse. The value of an independent and objective media cannot be gainsaid. Electoral contests are inherently historic; not least because they determine a society’s collective direction. It follows, therefore, that elections are deeply emotive and, across the world, elicit great passion. They also provide a conduit for dishonest and corrupt politicians to dupe the electorate into basing the vote on non-issues, to their advantage. In Kenya’s 2017 election, this was unfortunately largely exploited, whereby politicians were quick to set up the contest on the basis of non-issues such as trumped ethnic biases and fearmongering. In this election was two main platforms, Jubilee Party which was in government and the opposition National Super Alliance. Whilst both platforms, to varying degrees engaged in mudslinging, it was especially glaring that the ruling party relied as heavily on the non-issues and marginally on its track record as the incumbent. Regardless of which side of the political divide one stood at, the real issues in this election included: Instituting requisite capacity and infrastructure to deliver universal, quality education and health coverage; attracting new investments and growth of industry; catalysing new jobs and ensuring equality of opportunity - tackling the widening wealth gap between the wealthy under one per cent controlling national wealth (World Bank) and the majority poor, amongst others. The political class’s self-serving machinations, party intrigues and the electoral process constituted approximately 80 per cent of the media coverage on the election, dominating the tone of reporting, media interviews and topical debates. The consistent messaging by the media was about who was winning the contest for executive power, and gravely missing from the conversation, the more important matter of what policies and ideologies they would bring to governance if given a mandate. With the real issues overtaken by non-issues, the media played right into the interests of the political elite, a statistically negligible number of Kenyans, who preferred the election to be perceived and decided on trumped up emotive issues, including ethnic suspicion and bias stoked by them, and propaganda. This certainly must have been intended to distract from their deficiencies and lack of grasp of the nation’s collective aspirations. Kenya is an emerging economy, and Kenyans are more and more cognisant of the potential for growth of industry through better resource mobilisation, utilisation and supporting infrastructure by the public sector. The impact to individual as well as national economy would be transformative; and this is not only clear but also increasingly urgent to the working class Kenyan. However, with lacking or weak platforms to engage with the politicians, the cause for issue-based discussions and election decision-making suffered a further blow from underwhelming coverage in the media; in effect muting public discourse on the same. No different than elsewhere in the world, sections of the Kenyan society took to the streets in demonstration over their dissatisfaction with the electoral process and outcome – mainly the opposition’s mainstay areas, occasioning disruption of business. Demonstrators in sections of Nairobi and the Western Kenya town of Kisumu were met by excessive force by the police; with live bullets used to contain unarmed demonstrators. Consequently, lives were senselessly lost and multiple injuries registered. Incredibly, fatalities included a six-month old infant in Kisumu and two children in Nairobi. The grave implication of this is, it was either general police brutality or ethnically biased police brutality; none of which has a place in the 21st Century. In an apparent move towards blanket censorship of electoral dissent, the media decidedly focused elsewhere, in effect, befriending abuse of power. Yet, fairness and impartiality in journalism is paramount. As is no harm to humanity, either actively or by complacency. Media Independence: When the Constitution of Kenya was promulgated in 2010, it heralded a new dawn in which fundamental personal freedoms, including freedom of speech and assembly as well as freedom of the press, were guaranteed. This was a well fought for departure from Kenya’s past where the authoritarian Kenya African National Union regime, towards the turn of the century, arbitrarily censored press and personal freedoms to perpetuate its agenda. Finally, we could bask in the light of these reforms. Or can we? Recent actions taken by the Executive reek of the repressive past and directly contravene press and personal freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution. Three main TV stations – KTN News, NTV and Citizen TV were summarily taken off air, in contravention of Article 33 of the Constitution and an order issued by the High Court barring such action pending conclusion of investigation into alleged wrongdoing. Despite the foregoing, the broadcasters were illegally shut for five days for KTN News and NTV; and 10 days for Citizen TV, from January 30. The shutdown was occasioned by the broadcasters’ refusal to comply with an irregular Executive order not to air an event they deemed of public interest - the symbolic swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga as ‘People’s President’. This was an unprecedented action by the Executive, in total disregard for the rule of law and drawing condemnation from various sections of society, including political and religious figures, the media and diplomatic community. The government’s position on the matter, stated by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, as being ‘upholding the rule of law’ is self-defeating; purporting to uphold the rule of law by contravening parts of the same. Kenya has long been a beacon of regional peace and stability; having brokered peace in Sudan, participates in peacekeeping missions in Africa, and home to thousands of refugees, particularly from Somalia. However, if the recent subversion of law and freedom of the press is condoned, we are effectively breeding at home the conflict and war we are fighting abroad.