Bungoma MCAs have vowed to shoot down a supplementary budget because of exaggeration and reduction of money for development. Speaking to the press on Friday, Khalaba ward rep Majimbo Okumu, who is in the finance committee, said Governor Wycliff Wangamati has slashed the development cash from 35 per cent to 30 per cent. “The governor has been going around in funerals bragging about how he has saved Sh800 million that was wasted by the previous regime. He promised the cash will be used for development. We are surprised he has come with a different plan,” Majimbo said. The MCA said it is unnecessary for Wangamati to allocate Sh40 million for renovation of his office. The office is in good shape, he said. “That money should be used to buy drugs for hospitals. There is an acute shortage,” Majimbo said. MCAs will not allow Sh20 million that was meant for refurbishing Kanduyi Stadium to be shifted to the scholarships kitty. Bukembe East MCA Jorum Wanjala wondered why the governor allocated Sh70 million for revival of Kitinda Dairy, yet it is not a viable project. “We are not opposing the projects for the sake of it. The executive should come clean and tell us where the millions of shillings previously pumped into the project  went to,” Wanjala said. The MCAs vowed to shoot down the supplementary budget that is already in the assembly. In his first speech to the county assembly in October last year, the governor banned meetings, seminars, retreats and workshops outside the county to cut costs and boost the county’s economy. The governor said taxpayers lose millions of shillings when county employees make trips to other counties and neighbouring countries for workshops and seminars. “I’ve issued a directive for all county meetings to be held in Bungoma. I throw the challenge to MCAs to use the local hospitality industry and create jobs for our youth,” he said. Wangamati said he has specific directives to curb wastage through graft, unnecessary trips, excess per diems, and exaggerated project costs.