Keriako Tobiko has asked Environment ministry staff to resign if they feel the weight of work is too much for them to deliver. The former Director of Public Prosecution spoke on Monday after officially taking over from CS Judi Wakhungu, who was nominated as Kenya's Ambassador to France. "This is time for no showbiz. We have to purpose to deliver that which we are mandated to. Just as my boss mounts pressure on me, I expect that all the staff will work above board to deliver," he said. "If you feel the weight is too much you are allowed to quit. I will be happy to receive your resignations." Read: Uhuru sacks Mailu, Kaimenyi, Wario from Cabinet Also read: It's business unusual, quit if you can't deliver, Uhuru tells ministers Tobiko echoed the words of President Uhuru Kenyatta who told new Cabinet members to resign should they feel they cannot deliver. The new CS said he will immediately embark on a tour of all gazetted water towers in efforts to crackdown on illegal loggers. He said the laxity in law enforcement on illegal logging has exposed the towers to serious degradation, necessitating urgent intervention. "Our forest cover is currently at 7.2 per cent against 10 per cent because of complicity on the side of forest guards. Those rotten forest officers must be weeded out," he said at the ministry's office. "I assure you they will be arrested and taken to court." Tobiko added that saw millers who defy regulations will have their licences suspended or revoked. He added a multi-agency team will immediately be formed to audit the extent of illegal logging and bring those found culpable to book. "Those going out of their jurisdiction to harvest indigenous trees will also not be spared," the Cabinet Secretary said. "Illegal logging has become a matter of life and death so complicity will not be condoned." See: Nine Cabinet secretaries pledge to uphold law at swearing-in The new Minister added that crackdown on plastic bags will go on and asked Nema to ensure compliance in open-air markets and retail stores, and among manufacturers. Tobiko said that he will issue guidelines on the way forward for plastic bottles after a full briefing on the steps manufacturers have taken to control pollution. Click here for the latest political stories