US President Donald Trump should warn President Uhuru Kenyatta of punitive actions if he does not stop unlawful crackdown on Opposition leaders, the Washington Post has said. "The Trump administration should warn him of US punitive actions, including sanctions, if he does not stop," the editorial board said on February 6. According to the board, Kenya's neighbours in Africa and Western donors should demand that Uhuru reverses the course before it is too late. They were referring to the crackdown on Opposition politicians since the 'mock' swearing in of Nasa leader Raila Odinga on January 30. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent The government shut down three media outlets warning against airing the ceremony that attracted thousands of supporters. They were later opened after seven days. More on this: CA blocks Omtatah from serving order against media shutdown "By shutting down media, ignoring court orders and charging peaceful opponents with treason, he [Uhuru] is dangerously raising tensions in an already polarised society and inviting ostracism for his government," the editorial states. The board said Uhuru could have presided over a landmark consolidation of democracy in 2017 that would have positioned Kenya for political leadership in Africa. "Instead, he [Uhuru] is leading the country back toward the autocracy it thought it had left behind," the editorial said in part. The Washington Post further accused Uhuru of being vindictive after the Supreme Court nullified his August election victory in a landmark ruling. "Uhuru could have fixed the problems with the voting process and defeated Raila again. Instead, he embarked on a vindictive campaign, sponsoring legislation to prevent the supreme court from censuring future elections and intimidating electoral officials, one of whom fled the country." Last week, the US' State Department issued a statement criticising both Raila’s 'inauguration' and the shutdown of television stations. The Donald Trump's administration further noted that complaints regarding this determination should be addressed through appropriate legal mechanisms. It urged Kenya’s leaders to begin a national conversation about long-standing issues. Read: Trump 'gravely concerned' by Raila swearing-in, media attacks "That’s a good idea, but it can’t happen if Uhuru continues his unlawful crackdown," the board added.  Here is Washington Post Editorial in full  Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta could have presided over a landmark consolidation of democracy last year that would have positioned Kenya for political leadership in Africa. Instead, he is leading the country back toward the autocracy it thought it had left behind. By shutting down media, ignoring court orders and charging peaceful opponents with treason, he is dangerously raising tensions in an already polarized society and inviting ostracism for his government. Mr. Kenyatta appeared to handily win a presidential election last August against longtime opponent Raila Odinga, but then accepted a ruling by the supreme court invalidating the vote because of procedural irregularities. So far, so good: Mr. Kenyatta could have fixed the problems with the voting process, ensured a free and fair vote, and defeated Mr. Odinga again. Instead, he embarked on a vindictive campaign, sponsoring legislation to prevent the supreme court from censuring future elections and intimidating electoral officials, one of whom fled the country. Mr. Odinga and his supporters ended up boycotting the election, depriving Mr. Kenyatta of a convincing mandate. The situation deteriorated further last week when Mr. Odinga elected to stage a demonstration in which he swore himself in as the “people’s president.” It was a political stunt that, had Mr. Kenyatta ignored it, would have served only to discredit Mr. Odinga. Instead, the president warned Kenyan television stations not to cover the event, then shut down four of them when they did. That was a clear violation of the country’s constitution, and when a court ordered the stations reopened, the government did not respond. Only on Monday, four days after the court order, were two of the stations allowed back on the air, and there were reports that they had been forced to agree to coverage restrictions. Mr. Kenyatta meanwhile launched a campaign against key supporters of Mr. Odinga. Lawyer Miguna Miguna was arrested in his home on Friday and held incommunicado over the weekend even after a court ordered his release. On Tuesday he was brought before a court outside Nairobi and charged with the crime of attending Mr. Odinga’s mock inauguration, which was characterized as “a capital offense, namely treason.” The passports of 14 other opposition leaders were suspended. The wave of repression has prompted demonstrations among Mr. Odinga’s supporters in the Luo community. It risks reigniting ethnic violence that killed more than 1,000 people following a 2007 presidential election. That tragedy led to important constitutional and other democratic reforms that Mr. Kenyatta is disregarding. Kenya’s African neighbors and Western donors ought to be demanding that the president reverse course before it is too late. Last week the State Department issued a statement criticizing both Mr. Odinga’s auto-inauguration and the shutdown of television stations. It urged Kenya’s leaders to begin “a national conversation” about “long-standing issues.” That’s a good idea, but it can’t happen if Mr. Kenyatta continues his unlawful crackdown. The Trump administration should warn him of US punitive actions, including sanctions, if he does not stop.  Click here for the latest political news