The Anti-Female Genital Mutilation Board has raised concerns that changing dynamics of the cultural practice are making its detection and prosecution hard. Speaking to the Star on Monday, CEO Bernadette Loloju said communities are now practising FGM at night as opposed to previous years when it would be marked as big celebrations during the day. Read: Circumciser, four women arraigned after FGM in Narok Communities have gone underground. The practice is being conducted at night to avoid arrests. Unless someone calls to report it, it will go on unnoticed. These ceremonies used to be marked during the December Holidays but they are now practising it in April and August as well,” she said. As the World marks the Zero Tolerance on Anti-FGM today, Loloju said the introduction of Anti-FGM as a topic in the new school curriculum will give birth to anti-FGM clubs which will help create more awareness against the vice. “Introducing the topic as part of Pertinent and Contemporary Issues and Life Skills in schools will be a real game changer. We want girls to understand their bodies and that they don't have to go through the cut,” she said. According to Loloju, only 200 cases have been reported and are being prosecuted since the enactment of the Act in 2011. Evidence on FGM she said is not well preserved and they will be joining forces with the police and Judicial officers to inform them on how evidence can be packaged for such cases. Guyo Waqo Jaldesa, a gynaecologist based in Nairobi, said being cut by health professionals doesn't make it any better because people still die and no health professional has been trained to perform the cut. The practice comprises all procedures that involve altering or injuring the female genitalia for non-medical reasons and is recognised internationally as a violation of the human rights of girls and women. According to the Kenya Demographic Household Survey of 2014, some 78 percent of Maasai women and 86 percent of Samburu women between the ages of 15 and 49, have been mutilated, while for Kenya's general population the figure for FGM stands at 21 percent. Globally, it is estimated that at least 200 million girls and women alive today have undergone some form of FGM. The Anti-FGM board will from today host a three-day national conference to highlight progress, challenges and future trends in the fight against FGM" Click here for the latest political news