Foreign investors who had adopted a wait-and-see attitude following the prolonged drought and election period will flock to the equities market this year, Cytonn Investments has said. The increase in foreign investment will be backed by a stable macroeconomic environment and attractive stocks in undervalued sections of the market. Kenya has also maintained its attractiveness compared to other frontier markets. “We expect 2018 to register increased foreign inflows from the negative position in 2017, mainly supported by a stable business operating environment and long-term investors who enter the market looking to take advantage of the current low valuations in sections of the market,” Cytonn investment analyst Caleb Mugendi said. Cytonn in its Annual Market Outlook for 2018 noted foreign investors sold the most shares in 2017 with net outflow of $117.1 million (Sh11.8 billion) compared to net inflows of $88.8 million (Sh9 billion) recorded in 2016. long-term investors This, however, did not affect equity turnover which increased 14.3 per cent to $1.66 billion (Sh168 billion) from $1.45 billion (Sh146 billion) in 2016, meaning the foreign exchange market is not driven by foreigners. The report states long-term investors will enter the Kenyan market seeking to take advantage of valuations which are historically low in sectors including financial services, education and technology. “Market valuation is currently at historical average levels, but at Cytonn, we are seeing a huge opportunity in undervalued sectors, especially financial services, where investors can make attractive returns,” investment manager Maurice Oduor said. corporate governance In the report, expected improvement in corporate earnings growth, heightened regulation in public entities following major regulatory changes in 2017 with regards to corporate governance, and strong economic growth will drive up investor appetite this year. This is set to drive up corporate earnings this year, at 12 per cent compared to eight per cent in 2017.   