The government has denied that several people have died as a result of the ongoing drought in ASAL counties. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa on Friday said the government is doing all it can to intervene in the situation. He said the ministry has categorised the ASAL counties according to the severeness of the drought. "Those that need serious and urgent mitigation measures are Kajiado, Isiolo, Tana River and Garissa. We have already visited Kajiado and assessed the situation and next week we shall visit Tana River. These four counties are classified as the first category that need intimidate attention," he said. Read: State denies six have died of hunger in Baringo, says locals got food on Monday He said Mandera, Marsabit, Wajir, Samburu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta and Tharaka Nithi counties are in the second category. The CS said the other counties of Baringo, Turkana and West Pokot are not that badly hit but the government is also assessing the situation. "We want to assure all Kenyans that no life will be lost as a result of the drought. We shall take relief food to those affected as we forge for permanent mitigation measures," he said. Kenya Red Cross Sec General Abbas Gullet in his sentiment dismissed claims that the Society and the government were reading on a different script in terms giving the real statistics of those affected by the drought. Gullet said the government had declared drought a national disaster in February last year and had not declared otherwise. "The situation worsened with stressed rainfall and that is why we are bringing the issue to fore. By this we are not reading from a different script," Gullet said. On Thursday the Society launched a Sh1 billion appeal to aid 3.4 million Kenyans affected by drought. Gullet said the money will be spent in nine most affected counties. "We are asking Kenyans and international actors to help us assist our brothers and sisters before things become worse." Noting that Kenyans should not get tired of supporting the needy, Gullet said the call for help is urgent. "Whatever little you can offer can help," the Kenya Red Cross said adding that the money will be used to provide food, water sanitation, and hygiene. The Secretary-General said the cash will help until the next harvest expected in July 2018. He said some Sh12 million will go to health and nutrition, Sh112 million (water, sanitation hygiene) while cash transfers will take up Sh355 million. The livestock off-take programme will require Sh60 million, food distribution Sh44 million and early recovery 420 million, Gullet added. Read:Red Cross appeals for Sh1 billion to save drought-hit Kenyans Also read; Millions starve as food crunch bites yet again