No Kenyan will die of hunger because of drought, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said on Tuesday when relief food was distributed to four of the most affected counties. Eugene said the distribution of more than three million bags of maize will see to it that lives are saved. Priority will be given to Tana River, Garissa, Isiolo and Kajiado which are the worst hit of 23 counties. Read: Drought may force 10,000 kids out of Baringo schools Related: Less water, no soil, more fodder: Kenya farmers beat drought The Cabinet Secretary said the government will also give the 90,000 bags of rice it received at the Port of Mombasa. “No Kenyan will lose life because of famine or drought. We shall continue supplying relief food to affected areas until the drought ends," he said and asked the public not to worry. Eugene warned deputy county commissioners, their assistants, chiefs, sub-chiefs and village elders against misusing the food and engaging in schemes. Anyone found to have directed relief food to rich people will be jailed, he said. "We are trusting you with the relief food. It should reach the deserving people." Eugene further said the ministry will work with all governors, irrespective of their political affiliations, to ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta achieves the Big Four agenda which concerns housing, affordable health care, food security and industrialisation. “Politics is over. It’s time to work. I assure all governors that I shall build bridges to strengthen intergovernmental relations," he said.  Relief food is prepared for distribution at Garsen Primary School in Tana River Country, February 27, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI The CS announced that Coast will soon become Kenya's food basket with the million-acre Galana-Kulalu project. He added the government will strive to ensure the completion of Bura and Hola irrigation schemes. “Coast has the potential to produce food for the whole country. It will be the pillar of food security,’’ he said. Devolution Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado, who is also former Tana River Governor, noted commitment to delivering relief food to all the counties affected by drought. “I pray for peace. I am now in the national government ... I will deal with whoever will breach peace," he said. Principal Secretary Mikah Pkopus Powon, Tana River Senator Juma Wario, Deputy Governor Salim Batuyu also attended the launch of the programme in Bura, Wayu, Hola and Garsen town before proceeding to Waldena in Tana River County. According to the Kenya Red Cross Society, more than 3.4 million Kenyans are at risk of starvation due to drought. More on this: Red Cross appeals for Sh1 billion to save drought-hit Kenyans Click here for the latest political news