In multiparty states, ruling and opposition political parties have rights, duties and responsibilities. Some of these are written and others are traditional norms and rules of engagement. All have a right to compete for universal vote for a grant of the delegated authority to govern. Winning parties have luxurious rights to form government and superintend over the sovereign for a defined period. But that comfort comes with strict duty not to assume the place of the people who are the sovereign, observe rule of law, protect human rights and respect their erstwhile opposition competitors. The opposition has the buoyancy — even though also obligated — to ensure the government is kept in check within the boundaries of the Constitution and the rule of law. Eternal vigilance is necessary because democracy is fickle, especially from the inclination of government to exploit gaps, cheat and finally discard the rule of law, at which point government overthrows the Constitution and constitutes itself into the state. Other than military regimes, there isn’t a government that ever proclaims itself as being other than democratic. The atrocity that was Adolf Hitler’s fascism rode on a popular vote. Many vicious African regimes purvey benevolence before mutating into butcher machines. Overthrowing the Constitution is usually proceeded by seemingly innocent government omissions, misreading of the law, overreaching bureaucrats ignoring the law or amendments to ‘align’ the law to the Constitution and outright belligerence in breaking the law. The most recent dalliance is with presidential term extensions. The more pecking at institutions is allowed, the more engrained the confidence agenda to vanquish them. By now your guess is right: we’re tracing the genealogy of Kenya’s possible spectacular descent into despotism if the braks applied by the opposition fail. The signs are there; there is method to the brutally efficient manner President Uhuru Kenyatta has calibrated the security, law and justice sectors in his image. Other than carefully selected gatekeepers, the signals of ruthlessness are on display: encouraged resignations, crackdown on opponents, including media, criminalisation of dissent, crass disobedience of court orders and summonses from Parliament and disdain for independent institutions. The antidote is an organised, committed, focussed and determined opposition. Nowhere is it stated that a winning party must babysit the opposition; its purpose is to weaken and even dispose of it. Therefore a weak, bickering and self-cannibalising opposition is unwittingly a godsend co-conspirator in the emasculation of the opposition itself and invariably the descent of a country into the abyss. Unfortunately, NASA’s choice to feed on its entrails on the altar of election crumbs is glaring. Instead of mobilising on its calculated agenda for electoral justice, NASA has ceded space to Jubilee to retard democracy while it cannibalises itself. The loser is aborted electoral justice for Kenyans. No doubt the NASA conception was a juggernaut bubbling with creative political energy. A lot is whispered on the sidelines that isn’t good for NASA. Against virtues of good faith in sharing of positions in Parliament, partner party mandarins long lost sight of the long-term interests of the coalition and country. The adolescent infighting is music to Jubilee. One, having detected that this was Raila Odinga’s ‘last bullet, means the end of his political career, ODM careerists are sending him terms of endearment to inherit his base by shredding NASA. Two, word is the Uhuru Park saga was a choreographed exit strategy for an ODM that cannot field a NASA candidate in 2022. The NASA agreement disbars them on account of Raila’s candidacy in 2017. So why not exit on a high note after mudslinging NASA partners as cowards and traitors? Three, through financing their election and post-election commercial favours, Jubilee agents long infiltrated NASA echelons with hollow but high-sounding sloganeering, with mock projects derailing the the electoral justice agenda. They have reduced NASA from a serious threat to Jubilee to a comedian’s object of ridicule. These may be a day’s plateful of conspiracy theories frivolously constructed on the dying embers of NASA. But NASA faithful must not dismiss such views. NASA’s demise is being courted eagerly by the Jubilee politburo. It’s not for nothing Jubilee foot soldiers in Western gleefully mouth anachronistic support for DP William Ruto for 2022. On the other end, the bickering among ODM strategists isn’t idle talk. It warns of how divided NASA is. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com