Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu has sets his sights on the semifinals of the Las Vegas and Vancouver legs of the World Sevens series next month. Speaking on arrival from New Zealand yesterday, Simiyu said he is delighted with the progress they have made and was hopeful of taking the performance to another level. “We are quite happy with the way the boys played. They gave everything. It was a good platform to build on going into the later part of the season,” added Simiyu He noted that there are few details which needed to be worked on. “ There are a few areas we need to tighten up and improve and we will do it in our next training sessions,” he noted. Simiyu was, especially, delighted with the performance of the new players in the side including Arthur Owira, Eric Ombasa and Sam Muregi. “The new call ups have gelled very well in the team. They put up a tremendous performance and that bodes well for the team and it helps create a competitive environment in the squad,” he added. Shujaa have amassed 35 points from four tournaments reaching the Main Cup quarters in three legs Dubai, Sydney and Hamilton and failing to make it in Cape Town “Simiyu expects talisman and top try scorer Collins Injera and centre Billy Odhiambo to be fit for the Las Vegas and Vancouver legs next month. “The two have been undergoing rehab and various strength and conditioning exercises with the coach so they should be fit for the trip to USA and Canada,” added Simiyu. Kenya face France, Russia and Fiji in Pool A of the Las Vegas event, a pool Simiyu has termed as tricky. “It will be a tricky pool. We have had close encounters with the French this season and it will be close game. Russia are physical side who on their day can cause problems and Fiji, winners of the event in Hamilton, are always tough team to beat,” added Simiyu. Skipper Oscar Ouma said they are still on track to attain the 100 points target for the season. “Our goal remains the same. We are still on the right track to achieve 100 points and credit to the boys—they put up exemplary performances in Sydney and Hamilton,” added Ouma.