A public inquest to establish the killers of baby Samantha Pendo will start on today when the case will be mentioned at a Kisumu magistrate’s court. A file was opened at the court as ordered by former DPP Keriako Tobiko. He directed senior officers in command during the incident to face disciplinary action. The DPP ordered compensation of the bereaved family for emotional and physical torture experienced after the attack on the six-month-old baby. The case was to be mentioned on January 8 before chief magistrate Julius Ng’arng’ar, but was moved to February by resident magistrate Beryl Omollo. The inquest was ordered by the office of the DPP after police investigations failed to bear fruit. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority recommended disciplinary action against Kisumu county commander Titus Yoma, OCPD Kisumu East Christopher Mutune, DAPC Kisumu Central Benjamin Koima and OCS Kisumu Central John Thiringi. “The National Police Service Commission should institute disciplinary proceedings against the commanders for being negligent and particularly for failing to coordinate the police operation, making it difficult for the identity of the officers who committed criminal acts to be known,” the report said. Baby Pendo died in August last year after she was reportedly clobbered on the head by police in her parents’ house. The officers were quelling chaos that rocked the lakeside city after President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner of the presidential elections. Twenty-one witnesses testified in the case, including the baby’s Pendo's parents Joseph Abaja and Lenser Achieng. Neighbours are among those who testified. The top four officers in the county will testify including General Service Unit officers who were deployed to Nakumatt, Kachok and areas bordering Nyalenda estate. Two officers officers attached to the Recce Company Ruiru will also testify. GSU commander Nzioka Mutune who led GSU platoon units deployed in Nyanza during that period will testify. All the witnesses have recorded statements and are waiting to appear in court. 