When President Uhuru Kenyatta drank Keg as he opened a processing plant in Kisumu in July last year, it pleased many Kenyans who could easily identify with the locally produced drink. Demand for Keg has been growing following the ban on second generation liquor in 2015. It is popular as it is cheap and can be afforded by ordinary Kenyans. Unknown to many Kenyans, sorghum is a critical raw material for Keg production, so the thirst for Keg is good news to sorghum farmers. East African Malting Ltd general manager Lawrence Maina said Senator Keg, the most popular Keg brand in Kenya, uses sorghum and white millet as its main raw materials. EAML is a subsidiary of East African Breweries Ltd. “We are now looking into a programme of expanding into different counties even as we look into farmers increasing yields of sorghum per acre,” the GM said. He said Meru has traditionally been the second supplier of sorghum for the last seven years, and other counties, especially in Nyanza, can emulate it to feed the keg plant opened in Kisumu. He said Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Kitui counties have also been producing sorghum to feed EAML’s Nairobi plant, which processes about 30,000 tonnes of sorghum annually. He said the second-largest producer has grown 12,000 acres this season that is ready for harvest and threshing. CROP DIVERSIFICATION Maina said sorghum can be adopted as an alternative to other traditionally grown crops, which are no longer yielding much value to farmers due to changing weather patterns and unpredictable markets. “It (the plant) is also meant to highlight technologies applied to mitigate challenges along the sorghum value chain,” he said. The brewer has also opened a satellite office in Mukothima market, Tharaka Nithi county, to respond faster to issues affecting farmers in the larger Eastern region. This comes as EABL seeks to increase sorghum production in the Western and Nyanza regions in preparation for the start of operations at the KBL plant in Kisumu. The Sh15 billion plant revamp is already in progress and on schedule for completion in August. It is meant to meet high demand for Senator Keg, and is projected to double the market for sorghum as a cash crop from the current 20,000 metric tonnes to around 40,000 in the next five years. The plant is expected to make a direct and indirect contribution to the economy through the creation of over 1,500 direct jobs, with more than 22,000 new farmers set to benefit from supplying the new brewery with sorghum. “There has been a small dry spell, but the sorghum has survived compared to maize. We want farmers to review this and make a decision of their own as we seek to expand our supply,” Maina said. He said nine counties have been supplying the company with sorghum, but he wants to expand to 15. “Some of the counties coming on board are from Nyanza region. They include Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Siaya and Busia. From coast, the counties are Kwale and Taita Taveta. In Rift Valley region, there are Laikipia and Nakuru counties,” Maina said. EXCHANGE PROGRAMME It is this expansion that led them to visit Meru county in an exchange programme on January 25, to get ideas from farmers who grow sorghum. Present were 100 farmers, 10 from each of the nine counties, plus agricultural officers who trained them on good methods of sorghum farming before they plant. “This is a good programme. Farmers meet their colleagues and discuss how to plant, yields, challenges faced and how to solve them, so that when they go back to their farms, they can implement, as seeing is believing,” Maina said, adding that it sounds more credible when a farmer answers a farmer. He said farmers from the Lake Victoria region are expected to start planting in March, so they are conducting recruitment contracting and seed distribution to farmers. The GM said when the farmers go back to their counties, they will be ambassadors on production, contraction and marketing. Maina said the market is available as the company gives contract to farmers even before they plant the crop. “They can either choose to deliver it directly to Nairobi for farmers in Eastern region or Kisumu for farmers in Nyanza region, or they can sell to middlemen who charge transportation fees,” Maina said. He said they will assist 15,000 new farmers from Nyanza with threshers once their sorghum is ready for harvest. Maina said the Sh15 billion Keg processing plant in Kisumu will be operational in August, hence the need to educate farmers to start planting. He said the Nairobi Senator Keg processing plant needs 30,000 tonnes of sorghum to make the brand annually, while the Kisumu plant needs 15,000 tonnes of sorghum. CULTIVATION PROCESS Meru sorghum farmer Joseph Marangu, who owns six acres, was the first farmer to host the 100 farmers attending the exchange programme. He told farmers he prepared his farm and dug trenches of two-and-a-half feet, and then planted seeds two to 12 inches apart. “In the first weeding, I used Selector (a chemical sprayed to keep out weeds). In the second weeding, one can use a machete to do shallow weeding. From there, you should use an insecticide when it flowers. This will keep off caterpillars and armyworms,” Marangu said. He said if one plants and all goes well, the profit is huge compared to maize. It requires less input and its seeds are cheaper. “Farmers in semi-arid areas can plant maize for their own consumption, but if they want huge profits, they should embrace sorghum,” Marangu said. He urged farmers to use certified seeds; otherwise, some of their seeds might not germinate, and the harvest might have crop diseases. Marangu said the main challenge in sorghum farming is keeping off caterpillars and armyworms and drying the harvest. He said he started planting sorghum in October 2016. “I planted a small quantity and saw it had higher profit than maize, as one can harvest up to 20 bags in one acre. So I decided to plant only sorghum the following season, and I have never regretted,” Marangu said. He sold his first harvest at Sh38 per kilogramme, while his neighbours, who had planted maize, were selling it at Sh20 per kilo. He advised farmers in areas with little rainfall to plant Gadam variety, as it grows faster, dries faster and requires little rainfall, while those in areas with medium rainfall should plant Silla variety, as it has bumper harvest but requires medium rainfall. He said certified seeds go for Sh400 per 2kg pack, and each acre requires four kilos. A farmer can start with one 2kg bag of certified seeds and a 50kg bag of fertiliser. FARMER’S LESSONS Homabay farmer Selemiah Ogolla said he was impressed by the sorghum growing in Meru county. “We have learnt a lot from the exchange trip, and when we go back to our county, we will apply what we learnt in our farms, and also educate other farmers who are interested in sorghum farming,” he said. He was certain the farmers in Homa Bay will emulate their counterparts in Meru to produce quality sorghum. Ogolla said the climate in sorghum farming areas in Meru is almost the same as that of Homa Bay. “We know it is very hard for African farmers to embrace new crops, but we have tried to urge residents to plant sorghum by being pioneers,” Ogolla said. He said last season’s harvest was good compared to what he harvested when he started planting the crop in 2016. Ogolla will plant 10 acres of sorghum next season, as the exchange programme had made him realise he could have a bumper harvest. 