Kenya concluded their disappointing tour of Zimbabwe with a consolation, beating Zimbabwe ‘A’ in the only T20 match of the pre-tour before heading to Namibia for ICC World Cup League Division 2 starting tomorrow. Kenyans lost all the opening four 50-overs matches in Zimbabwe. After restricting Zimbabwe ‘A’ to 110/9 in their 20 overs, Kenya rode on a smashing knock of 68 unbeaten runs off 49 deliveries from Dhiren Gondaria to reach 113/3 in only 14.4 overs to win the match by 7 wickets. Earlier, during the Zimbabwe ‘A’ innings, Nelson Odhiambo took 4 wickets to peg back the top and middle order of their batting line-up in making more runs on the board. After whitewashing their guests in the one-day series, the home team was expected to continue the winning run in the 20-overs version of the game, but they found themselves on the receiving end. Batting first, the home team struggled to impose themselves as they lost wickets at regular intervals. In the end, they managed 110 runs in their allotted 20 overs which didn’t give the bowlers something to work with. Kenya raced to the target in 14.4 overs with Gondaria’s unbeaten 68 as the top score. Gondaria put on an opening stand of 28 with Alex Obanda (9) in 3.1 overs. He then received a stand of 21 runs for the second wicket with Collins Obuya (6) in 3.3 overs. Seven overs later, Kenya were on 97 for 3, thanks to Rushap Patel’s 14. He then scored the winning runs in just eight balls with skipper Rakep Patel. Wellington Masakadza, Tino Mutombodzi and 20-year-old Rugare Magarira claimed a wicket each, but there wasn’t any more success to write home about. Once the batsmen struggled to put an imposing total on the board, the bowlers were always going to find it tough to defend such a low score. Skipper Prince Masvaure top-scored for Zimbabwe with 23 while opener Chamu Chibhabha hit 20 and Mutombodzi made 19. Cephas Zhuwao, who lit up the one-day series with some brutal batting displays, struggled yesterday and was dismissed after facing three balls, one of which he heaved for a maximum, before he became Kenya’s first wicket.