Politician Ekuru Aukot has asked Deputy President William Ruto to consider retiring with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Thirdway Alliance party leader described himself as suitable for the Presidency come 2022 and asked Uhuru not to endorse anyone. Ruto is expected to take over after the Jubilee Party President finishes his second and final term. Read: Drop State House ambition and back Ruto, Sudi tells Gideon Moi Aukot noted Kenyans tend to elect Opposition leaders for the top seat. "I am the current official Opposition leader so my chances of ascending to power are higher," he said. Aukot, who ran for State House on August 8, 2017 but got less than one per cent support, said Kenyans all over the country are applauding him for filing a case asking IEBC to include him in the race after Nasa leader Raila Odinga withdrew. "People in Kirinyaga Tharaka Nithi, Meru ... are telling me that I am the one who rescued the country from a constitutional crisis so I am asking them to return the favour by electing me in 2022." He spoke on Saturday at Mikinduri in Tigania East Constituency, Meru, where he attended the homecoming party for former Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi, who is a member of the East African Legislative Assembly. The Thirdway Alliance boss noted he unveiled his shadow Cabinet to keep the government in check, "We respect President Uhuru Kenyatta's government but we will not support it blindly. We will put it in check - that is why we have come up with a shadow Cabinet." He asked Kenyans to insist on development and peaceful politics. More on this: Aukot unveils 22 shadow Cabinet members 'with no integrity questions' Also read: Accepting defeat doesn't give Uhuru win 'clean bill of health' - Aukot Raila, the veteran Opposition chief, pulled out of the October 26 re-run saying the outcome of the presidential race had been pre-determined. Nasa principals are considering their options while leading a National Resistance Movement for Uhuru to leave State House. The others are Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). As they restrategise, US Ambassador Rober Godec has asked Kenyans, youths in particular, to defend the "precious, fragile" democracy. More on this: Godec's passionate appeal for Kenyans to protect 'precious, fragile' democracy Click here for the latest political news