A section of Homa Bay MCAs wants the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate cases of alleged corruption at the assembly. The MCAs have accused some top assembly officials of using public funds to serve their personal interests. The MCAs, led by Okuku Miregi (Rusinga), Julius Gaya (Central Karachuonyo) and Joan Ogada (Kaojwach), claimed there is misappropriation of public funds in the assembly. Miregi said, “The assembly has been hijacked by corruption cartels. Most assembly business cannot be transacted due to lack of money. Let the EACC come and find out where the money goes to.” Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town on Wednesday, the MCAs called for an overhaul of the assembly top management. Gaya said the current officials are likely to run down the House. “It’s difficult to deal with those who have set their minds on how they want to acquire wealth. I fear the Homa Bay assembly will remain moribund if action is not taken,” Gaya said. He said he will introduce a motion to overhaul the top leadership of the assembly when MCAs return from recess. Raid “Corruption is digging deep into the county assembly and it’s only by making changes to its leadership that we will save this arm of the Homa Bay government,” Gaya said. Last year, the EACC raided the assembly and some officials were arrested. The EACC said at least Sh400 million had been misused. Ogada said some MCAs calling for transparency are being intimidated. Ogada said she was told to keep quiet when she asked where funds meant for developing their offices went to. “I was not only threatened, but told never to speak to the media over lack of ward office funds. This assembly is headed in the wrong direction and we’ll not allow ourselves to be gagged,” she said. In March last year, assembly principal accountant Maurice Amek was arrested. A two-day search of his office and two homes on the Sofia Estate was conducted by EACC detectives. Amek, accused of misappropriation, was released after EACC officers and police obtained documents to help with investigations. They include irregularly acquired land ownership documents for property, fake allowance payments running into tens of millions of shillings, mortgage scheme and car loan documents, detectives said. Contracts belonging to Amek’s relatives were also confisicated.