Farmers in Bungoma and Busia counties have adopted robusta coffee because of the crop’s lucrative prices in Uganda. Kenya is the leading producer of arabica coffee in the world after Tanzania and Colombia, but robusta coffee is mainly grown in Uganda. More than 1,595 farmers have switched according to Busia county resource mobiliser Leonard Murwayi. Yesterday, Murwayi told a national coffee conference in Naivasha farmers were smuggling their coffee to Uganda due to lack of local market. Both Busia and Bungoma border Uganda. “Farmers in Nambale, Apokor, Teso South, Samia, Namwitsula, Lukholele and Kanduyi collectively produced 2,299 kilogrammes in 2015 when the crop was first introduced to them. Their production increased to 37,947 kilogrammes the following year,” Murwayi said. Robusta coffee was initially neglected by Kenyan farmers who said it was inferior. Murwayi told the conference the neglect was a result of lack of research. Most of the arabica coffee is grown in the Mt Kenya region, Rift Valley, lower Eastern and parts of Taita Taveta county. International coffee dealers in Kenya import robusta from Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania for blending with arabica to make instant coffee. Murwayi said there were plans to establish pulping stations for value addition. The county will also conduct soil analysis and market the coffee. BOOST PRODUCTION Joseph Kieyah, chairman of the Coffee Sub-Sector Implementation Committee, said the government has developed a programme to introduce robusta to other regions. The government is targeting 100,000 metric tonnes in the next five years. “Growing robusta coffee will give farmers another option for income. We’re discussing with coffee growing counties with idle land to facilitate farmers,” Kieyah said. The committee is keen on increasing Kenya’s share in the international market, Kieyah said. Robusta coffee farming was introduced to Western farmers by the Coffee Board of Kenya in 2014, in a bid to boost the country’s production by enabling non-traditional areas to grow the crop.   