Kenyatta National Hospital has been ordered to form a task force that will recommend how the facility can be decongested. Health CS Sicily Kariuki yesterday told the management to constitute the team immediately. She said decongesting the hospital would be her immediate duty at the ministry, where she took over officially on Wednesday last week. "In some sections, we are holding three-fold the required number of patients because of unnecessary referrals," Kairuki said. She spoke during a morning tour of the hospital. KNH, which was established more than 100 years ago and became a state corporation in 1987, has seen little expansion and now serves more than 2,000 new patients daily and more than half a million annually. Kariuki said the crowding is caused by walk-in patients and unnecessary referrals for conditions that could easily be handled by other hospitals. "We will look at culture change in other hospitals so they only refer patients here when it's necessary. This is a referral and teaching facility and should not handle primary healthcare," Kariuki said. The task force will decide how much time it will require to produce a report, she said. Kariuki was accompanied by incoming Health Principal Secretary Peter Tum, Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko and KNH CEO Lily Koros. KNH is Kenya's biggest hospital. It has 4,754 staff — 200 doctors, 25 dentists, 14 pharmacists, 1,718 nurses, 463 administrative officers and 586 paramedics and others, according to the last audited financial report for 2015-16. The facility operates on a Sh11.6 billion annual budget, which includes allocation from the National Treasury and income from internal services. It has a bed capacity of 2,063, 50 wards, 24 clinics and 26 operating theatres. This will not be the first effort to decongest the hospital. In June 2015, Koros told a team from the Council of Governors that they planned to reverse minor referrals to lower-level hospitals of origin. “On average, we have 2,400 inpatients and 2,500 outpatients daily,” Koros said. Clinical services deputy director Simeon Monda said Kiambu county leads with 22 per cent of all referral cases, with most patients being casualties of boda boda accidents. Nairobi county has a referral of 20 per cent, while Machakos is third at 13.7. Last year, then-Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero hired 437 new medical staff and equipped 17 health centres to operate 24 hours a day, to stop people from going to KNH for primary healthcare.