President Uhuru Kenyatta has vetoed plans to remove some senior police officers, forcing the National Police Service Commission and the Inspector General to instead make internal changes. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet had presented a list of senior officers he wanted transferred to the public service but the head of state declined, highly placed sources said yesterday. Read: Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome moved in major reshuffle The list included at least seven senior police commanders, among them Fred Mwei, who is Administration Police DIG Noor Gabow's deputy, King'ori Mwangi, who until yesterday was DIG Edward Mbugua's deputy, APTU chief Nyale Munga, Patrick Ndunda, who is the head of criminal records at the DCI headquarters, Maalim Abubakar (Criminal Intelligence Unit), Fred Maingi (director personnel) and Robert Kitur of the police reservists department. Yesterday the Johnstone Kavuludi-led NPSC released a new list of transfers. None of the top cops in Boinnet's list were named in yesterday's changes. Read: Top cops keep off Deputy IG jobs for fear of ‘Uhuru men’ Former Kenya Police College commandant William Saiya, Central regional police coordinator Gideon Amalla and Peter Mwanzia of the police headquarters were the only senior officers who have exited the service. They will be redeployed to the ministries. Kingori Mwangi has been appointed the new Kenya Police College commandant. His position has been taken over by former Nairobi police chief Japheth Koome. Former Anti-Stock Theft Unit boss Joseph ole Tito is the new Nairobi police chief. Soon after taking the oath of office as NPSC commissioners, Mbugua and Gabow proceeded to the headquarters at Skypark, where they ratified the changes. Maingi, who until yesterday was the Director of Personnel at Vigilance House and whose names was in the list of officers headed to the ministries, was stripped off the position. He has not been given a new role. He will however remain at Vigilance House. Henry Barmao, who was the acting Director of Operations, has been confirmed to the position. Former Central region police boss Francis Munyambu returns to the same region as regional commander. Philip Tuimur is the new director of community policing. He was the Eastern region police chief.  Click here for the latest political news