Nyandarua has launched the Kimemia Milk programme for ECDE learners to get free milk three times a week. Governor Francis Kimemia said the Friday launch was one of the most important "for me and my government since we are witnessing one of my key visions becoming a reality”. He made the promise ahead of last August's election, noting the aim was to improve enrollment. "The programme aims to transform the lives of thousands of young nursery school children by ensuring access to nutritious milk in their schools," KImemia said at Kagondo Primary School in Gwa Kung’u, Ndaragwa. “No doubt school attendance will improve as pupils who are not hungry learn more efficiently. Further, the rate of normal mental and physical development is expected to increase as that of stunted growth declines." Related: Meru kicks off free milk programme for nursery pupils Also read: Kingi rolls out Sh50 million free milk plan to keep Kilifi children in class In October 2017, the Assembly passed a resolution for the Executive to start school-based feeding programmes in pre-primary centres by providing fortified porridge. The motion was tabled by Charagita MCA Wairimu Njane. Kimemia said that with proper logistics and planning, the programme will be "up-scaled to conform to the Assembly resolution”. Currently, he said, the programme is fully funded by the Nyandarua government, but the county will work closely with the national government, private sector, civil society and other development partners to sustain and expand it. To begin with, the milk will be provided and distributed by New KCC from the Nyahururu depot. This, Kimemia said, is expected to expand the market for Nyandarua dairy farmers. New KCC will deliver the milk to wards from where boda boda groups will be contracted to transport it to ECDE centres. Sub-County and ward administrators will coordinate and supervise the programme to ensure the milk reaches the children as scheduled. They will also ensure safe storage and prevent loss through spillage. “I ask the County Commissioner to ask Chiefs and Assistant Chiefs to help in this aspect," the Governor said. New KCC Managing Director Nixon Segei termed the programme is noble and said the company will work with the county to ensure its success. Nyandarua is the fourth county to launch the initiative, he said, and expressed optimism that other countries will take it up. The programme for Early Childhood Development Education centres will eventually see the pupils get porridge and other foods. The initiative is also to be extended to private centres and primary schools. More on this: State to fully fund school feeding programme from next year - Matiang’i Click here for the latest political news