Kenya is grappling with serious insecurity despite spending billions modernising police programmes. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said this on Thursday, citing terrorism, human trafficking, cattle rustling and crybercrimes. Noting the importance of keeping the public safe, he asked police officers to deal ruthlessly with the vices. Terrorism and human trafficking remain the biggest challenges for the National Police Service, Matiang'i said, and warned rogue officers against collaborating with criminals to frustrate Kenyans. "It is disheartening that five decades after independence, the police service has not even managed to contain the issue of cattle rustling," he said. "It is sad that five decades after independence, manifestations of cattle rustling are rampant. We must look for strategic ways to handle the matter which has become so serious. It looks like the police service is not succeeding." The minister noted the service must adopt a robust way
of dealing with these challenges. "We must do all we can ... call politicians and let them be answerable. When aliens are trafficked from Moyale to Namanga with roadblocks, how can we explain this?" he posed. "We must adopt tough
and ruthless means of dealing with this, including letting go the rogue officers compromising with the calling. Our people do not need to die as we throw our arms in the air." He spoke during a meeting with security agents at the Annual IG's conference at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. Matiangi also asked the NPS to step up the crackdown on cybercrimes as "the extortion network is destroying the society". He noted the network has thrived for too long. "I understand we are policing in a difficult environment where cyber crime levels are rapidly rising but we have no reason not to confront this because if we do not,  we are going to destroy the society. "It is even worse to learn that some of the cybercrime perpetrators are enjoying patronage from formal structures of government and police institutions." The CS further directed police to ruthlessly crackdown on illicit brews, gambling machines, mugging and land grabbing. "I want you to move everywhere and collect all these gambling machines. Be ruthless and firm and do not be intimidated by anybody," he said. The cabinet secretary said he understands the state of police officers' working conditions and promised the government will allocate sufficient resources to complete the modernisation programme. "Rome was not built in one day. As you focus on the bigger picture of securing our country, especially on the porous borders, I assure you that we shall ensure proper working conditions. Accommodation will be improved for better service delivery," he said. Matiang'i also asked officers to learn the art of working together as service delivery has been compromised by poor coordination between national and county governments. "We have effected radical changes in our coordination structures to facilitate service delivery. I want the silo attitude to come to an end. This is where a junior officer cannot execute his or her duties without getting authorisation by seniors. This has compromised our duties and must stop." The CS commended the service for conducting themselves in a civilised manner during the elections period. He said though cases of provocation and "bits of incitement" persist, the IG had ensured officers acted responsibly. "What many Kenyans don't know is that on Tuesday, we were headed for a blood-birth but the IG responsibly and strategically made a decision to counter the plan. We have a government in place and though some people are not responsible for their actions, we shall ensure our people are kept safe and united." More on this: NASA planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i Click here for latest political news