The
appointments by the President, as witnessed in recent days, do not augur well
for the country’s cohesiveness. The President has in the last few days turned a
blind eye on some parts of this country. While it is understood that the President
is putting up his legacy team, it must not be lost on him that the country is
made up of 43 tribes. He, for instance, cannot go around picking people from
his own region and then purporting to paint a picture of nationhood. That is
unfair. That is unfortunate and must be corrected in the soonest time possible.
The President must rise above negative ethnicity, partisan politics and instead
embrace the nation’s tribal diversity. All the appointments made by the
Executive must have the Face of Kenya aspect so as to buttress efforts to unite
Kenyans from all the tribes. When the President makes appointments that appear
to perpetuate negative ethnicity and firm up exclusion in the guise of building
a legacy team that only serves to polarise the country further, there is
trouble ahead. There is no need of growing the economy double-digit but then
end up leaving it more polarised. That would be tragic of any administration.
As he did when he named Cabinet Secretaries and Chief Assistant Secretaries,
the President must ensure regional balance at all costs. He must ensure that he
brings on board as many people from diverse tribes as possible. It is noteworthy
that the President has decided to assemble his own team to help him deliver on
his pledges during his second and final term. We have seen him push out
carryovers from retired President Mwai Kibaki’s administration, including the
outgoing Attorney General, Githu Muigai. This is good for his legacy, but it must
be carefully well thought out, so as to dissuade the animosity driven by the leadership
of exclusion. As the President tries to put up a team of men and women who
would drive his four-pillar Jubilee agenda for the country, he must ensure that
such appointments are representative of the country’s tribal diversity. We
cannot have a situation where, every day, every appointment takes a tribal
connotation because other Kenyans feel excluded.  President Uhuru Kenyatta
must accept that although there are some Kenyans who did not vote for him,
because they hold divergent political persuasions, he is the President of the
Republic of Kenya. The writer
is a political analyst  Click here for the latest political
news   