Are President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga really interested in finding a political solution to the current impasse? We are told that whereas the two leaders have sometimes indicated they may be interested in resolving the matter, they are also reported to be holding back. Both Uhuru and Raila are said to be held hostage by their hard-liners, who do not want compromises. ***** Are there plans by some powerful developers to grab a wetland next to the Eastleigh Police Patrol Base, Nairobi? Residents around the piece of land that saddles the river on the lower side are suspicious after the bushes around were cleared overnight and building materials quickly offloaded on the land. The residents now want all relevant authorities, including City Hall, Nema and the National Land Commission, to move with speed to secure the land. ***** Why did a parastatal in the Ministry of Water go ahead to award a multibillion-shilling tender to a certain notable contractor, despite anomalies? Word has it two members of the Bunge la Wananchi are planning to move to court to block the Sh30 billion tender in Migori county, over what they term major irregularities. It is understood that procurement regulations were bypassed in the process of awarding the lucrative tender, amid reports of boardroom wars. ***** A second-term governor from Western Kenya who faces an election petition is angry with his lawyer. He accuses him of doing little to make sure he wins the case. The governor was heard saying his lawyer is hell-bent on seeing him lose the case so he can proceed to the Court of Appeal. According to the governor, the lawyer would like him to lose the case to continue milking his cash when he appeals the ruling. ***** A Member of Parliament from Kisii fond of brandishing his gun anyhow is an angry man. The youthful lawmaker had run-ins with the OCS of the local police station over the weekend, after a villager reported seeing him with a gun. Despite tough regulations governing gun ownership, the MP appears to be breaking all of them. During the encounter with the OCS, the MP was read the Riot Act and warned disciplinary measures would be taken against him should he fail to comply with the law on gun handling. Shockingly, the MP was later overheard bragging at a Kisii hotel how he cannot be threatened and intimidated by ‘junior police officers’.  Click here for the latest political news