One more person was killed, a GSU officer injured and three raped on Thursday night in Chepyuk Settlement Scheme in Mt Elgon. The gang has been responsible for the killing of seven people this week alone. On Thursday, a man was shot dead in his home in Sambocho by the gang armed with AK-47 rifles. His wife and two daughter were raped. The gang later abducted one of the girls and disappeared with her to Mt Elgon Forest. She returned home on Friday morning. The traumatised girl was taken to hospital for examination. Police officer Mukung Wereka, who was on leave tried to repulse the gang using his pistol as they tried to escape from Sambocho. He was shot and left in a critical condition. Wereka is admitted at the Bungoma Referral Hospital. The recent killing brings to 31 the number of people who have been killed in the last three months by a gang of more than 10 members that has been terrorising residents. After the attack, the Rapid Deployment Unit, police and GSU officers pursued the gang and gunned down on of the suspected on Friday morning in Maseak, Kapateny ward. The suspected gangster who was killed has been identified as Isaac Mukwawa, a former commander of the SLDF militia. Area deputy county commissioner Ewoton Kinyajui told the Star one of the suspected gang member has been gunned down. “We managed to bring one down and we are in pursuit of the others. We have divided our teams into two to ensure we stop these criminals who have terrorising residents for the past three months,” he said. The attacks have raised fears of a resurgence of the dreaded Sabaot Land Defence Force that reigned terror on residents between 2005 and 2008, leading to the death of more than 1,200 people. The group was later dismantled by a joint military and police operation called Operation Okoa Maisha. During the crackdown of the SLDF its leader Wycliffe Matwakei and several other commanders were killed. Others were arrested and charged. Area MP Fred Kapondi was also arrested and charged for allegedly being a leader of the group. The case was later dismissed for lack evidence. His predecessor John Serut was also named by the TJRC report together with Kapondi for having funded the militia. Two of the commanders of the outlawed militia have since been on the run and have been profiled by police as wanted. They are Titus Kiptanui Kitai, alias Chebrakach, and Sichei Chemamaik. Residents told the Star they fear the SLDF militia could be regrouping slowly, because those who had cases in courts have since been released and could be on a revenge mission. “Those who were arrested during the Operation Okoa Maisha operation have been acquitted. Others have completed their jail terms and they are back," a resident said. Cheptais Nyumba Kumi leader Paul Chemingwa said unless all those who were previously involved in such activities are profiled and their movements monitored, the situation could get out of hand. “The criminals are now back in the villages. Most of them hid their guns in the forest and have taken them back. They need to be profiled a fresh,” he said According to the UN Integrated Regional Information Networks, between 2006 and 2008 the SLDF launched an insurgency against the government to stop them from evicting people from Mount Elgon land, and they attacked people who they suspected of siding with the government