Deputy President William Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi have agreed to work together despite their rivalry to control the vote-rich Rift Valley. The two have declared interest in the 2022 presidential race. “The chairman (Gideon) sent me to Ruto to tell him that we have to put the interests of the people of Baringo and other Kenyans first,” Kanu Secretary General Nick Salat told the Star on phone on Thursday. “And the DP said let's work because we are here to serve Kenyans.” Read: I could back DP Ruto in 2022, says Gideon Moi The Rift Valley kingpins agreed to put their differences aside to allow President Uhuru Kenyatta settle down in his second term and build his legacy. “We are not interested in fighting anyone,” Salat said. The Kanu SG remarks come a time when Ruto, an abrasive politician, has turned into a moderate as succession politics takes shape. “What the country needs at the moment is politics of development. This government was elected in a democratic process,” Ruto said during an inter-denominational thanksgiving prayer service at Chepkemel in Uasin Gishu County. Ruto said he is focused on the 2022 presidential race. “We defeated them twice last year and let them prepare for a rematch with me in 2022," Ruto said. Salat –a close Gideon ally -described the Deputy President response as a good gesture despite both the DP and the Baringo Senator assembling their machine to make a stub at the 2022 presidency. Speaking on Sunday during his brother and Rongai MP Raymond Moi's homecoming ceremony, the Baringo Senator said he did not have a problem with the President. "Uhuru knows what he will do at the right time,” Gideon said On his part, Salat said: "We are not involved in politicking for now. It might be three and a half years. We have a role to build the society. “To build the society we must come together for a good cause so that we have good roads in place, good markets, health, education and security.” The SG said Ruto and Gideon agreed to focus on Uhuru’s four agenda, which are manufacturing, universal healthcare, food security and provision of 500, 000 affordable housing units. Despite Salat saying that the Jubilee administration failed to honour the pre-election promise to create Cabinet slots for Kanu, he believes Kenyans longest ruling party will directly offer a helping hand to Jubilee. Also read: Click here for the latest political news