Nyashinski was one of the headliners at the much-talked-about launch of the Safaricom Songa app. The excited star told Word Is, "The App is very important because now artistes have a direct relationship with their consumer. Artistes don't have to go through a middleman for their music to be heard by their fans when the App is there, because they just have to download the music directly from there. It is also easier for more talents to be noticed, as previously there was favouritism and bias." When Nyashinski made a comeback, people thought he was a new artiste. "It worked for me because it made them give me a chance, even as a new and blank canvas, as opposed to having an expectation. Because anytime one has an expectation, there is a chance you would let them down. This far I have come it is because of the fans I have." Nyashinski concludes by reminding Kenyans the importance of the Songa app. "Songa is special because it is Kenyan. I will use this example where you have your dog and the neighbour has one. So don't feed the neighbour's dog before yours is full. Songa has a very good interface and is easy to access because it also has all the music, from international to local." The service has concluded agreements with major international and African music labels and aggregators, including Sony Music Entertainment, Africori, Africha, Ngoma and Expedia, and is at an advanced stage of negotiation with other labels. Sean Watson, managing director of Sony Music Entertainment Africa, said: “In Songa by Safaricom, we see a unique solution that rivals international music applications. Sony Music Entertainment is proud to be associated with this unique product that we believe is well positioned to deliver on its promise to entertain and capture unique moments in our lives." Yoel Kenan, CEO of Africori, one of the largest Africa aggregators, also had his say: "We see a natural home for our diverse African content here. We love the focus on the latest African hits as well as the timeless catalogues of yesteryears.” To get the app, dial *812# or go to www.songamusic.com/download