National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi
pronounced himself on membership of the Parliamentary Service Commission. He
said there are three parties that qualify for PSC slots – Jubilee (4), ODM (2)
and Wiper (1). He officially communicated as the chair on the floor of the
House. This means Wiper has to present a name of its nominee and ODM two. This
is what we have done as Wiper. We are basically following what the Speaker
ordered. Even in the last Parliament, former Kitui Senator David Musila was our
nominee to the PSC. We are still the same party and in the same arrangement as
a coalition. We have done the same thing we did in the
last Parliament by forwarding the name of Borabu MP Ben Momanyi as our PSC
nominee. We are trying to ensure that there is regional balance for the Kisii
community to get something within the NASA arrangement. The Kisii community has
got nothing in ODM parliamentary leadership. We want to ensure people stop
complaining about discrimination in the coalition. It would not have been good
for Wiper had the seat been given to the Kamba community, which already has
other positions. This is part of our consideration and there shouldn’t be any
problem because ODM has two slots for their nominees to the PSC. I think the
disputed PSC slot can split the coalition, because these are individual
positions and are not more beneficial to individual parties. The position will
be given to Momanyi, not Wiper. Our party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and the
People’s President Raila Odinga can sit, talk and agree on the matter. This
noise by coalition members against each other is making NASA look bad. This
makes me question whether we are ready to form a government when we still fight
for small positions. The best thing is for our four principals sit and agree because
MPs will fight until kingdom come if the matter is left to them. I don’t think
if there will be any problem because we are simply doing what we did last time,
and what the Speaker said. We are not trying to take anything away from Musalia
Mudavadi’s ANC. Instead, we can even donate a position to it, although ODM
already donated a slot to them in the Senate for the PSC. The writer is  the Wiper Organizing Secretary and Kathiani MP  Click here for the latest political
news     