Twenty children with congenital heart diseases have been given a new lease of life after 19 medical staff from Evelina London Children Hospital performed free heart repairs. The team includes six doctors, while the others are nursing and theatre staff. The open heart surgeries are being done at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi. Hundreds of parents with children who suffer heart disorders went for a two-day screening, which was done to identify the most urgent cases. "We received very many children with heart conditions, but we managed to screen 100, from whom we picked the 20 who are now undergoing surgeries," paediatric intensive care doctor Bhupi Reel said. The screenings were being done to children from newborns to age 13. Reel said they encountered a few cases of cardiac impairment, which the doctors could not repair. "We got four cases of children with serious heart conditions that we could not repair, and even if we tried to, we would not be able to do post-care here in Kenya," he said. Those cases were referred to Chain of Care, who will hopefully help them seek medical attention in India and other countries. PARENT'S PLIGHT Emma Awiti, is one of the parents whose child's case was too complex to have the surgery done. Her four-year-old son has had a heart condition since he was born. He underwent an open heart surgery in 2015 at Mater Hospital, and the doctors recommended her to take him to India for further repairs. "The doctors here have told me the same thing, but I lack funds to take him there," she said. The mother of two said she has had a rough life since her son was born in 2014. "As you may be aware, there is not a single cardiologist in Kisumu, where I come from, and I have had to travel to Nairobi every time he gets unwell, which is very often, it can even be three times in a month," she said. Emma said she cannot dare get another child for fear of the child also having a heart defect. "It's very stressing, more so when you don't have the money for treatment," she said. She went back to Kisumu, from where she will try to raise the Sh2 million to take him to India. The team of doctors, in conjunction with doctors without boarders (MSF), also screened 60 more children with congenital diseases from Dadaab refugee camp. The screening was done at the hospital after MSF catered for their transport and upkeep in Nairobi. Most cases of cardiac impairment they came across were holes in the heart, malformed hearts and bad functioning. Congenital heart disease remains the world’s most common birth defect, affecting approximately 1 in 100 children. Children with CHD in Africa have a dramatically different prognosis to those living in developed nations, in terms of morbidity and mortality.