The CBK is yet to reveal who and when the Sh633 million Treasury Bills at the heart of fraud allegations were liquidated. Last Friday, Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and businessmen Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa were arrested at the CBK offices on Haile Selassie Avenue over alleged fraud. The CBK alleged the three made a false claim for Treasury Bills numbers 1138 and 1148 bought in 1990. It said the T-bills were cashed out without further details. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, CBK head of communications Wallace Kantai steered clear of the transaction details citing sub judice as the matter is in court. All suspects yesterday denied fraud charges and were ordered to pay a cash bail of Sh2 million each or deposit Sh5 million bond. But questions still linger and there is public debate on the safety of government papers under the custody of the CBK and the true picture of the country’s public debt. The Institute of Economic Affairs has threatened to petition Parliament to demand a forensic and management audit of the debt register. IEA boss Kwame Owino was the first to question the integrity of the public debt records in light of the alleged attempted fraud, urging the CBK to assure Kenyans. “I am also surprised that CBK has not stated that it has full confidence in the Central Depository System (CDS) and that the register cannot be corrupted,” tweeted Owino More questions than answers Besides asking the CBK to reveal details about the controversial T-bills, Kenyans on Twitter under the hashtag #MPKeter questioned whether the transition of government papers from paper to virtual in 1997 was transparent and effective Under the dematerialisation process, Kenya in 1997 shifted from the process where government securities were bought in actual papers and liquidated upon physical presentation of bills or bond certificates. Today, investors just need virtual CDS accounts to buy and redeem their government securities into their bank accounts. It is therefore not clear why the three suspects physically presented the alleged forged certificates. “Are we still in the 1990s when government papers were transacted in actual papers? MP Keter must have known that securities are traded virtually,” a Twitterati under the handle @WillyRono said. Others wondered why the suspects went to the CBK to redeem 27-year old securities when there is a government agency that collects unclaimed assets after a period of not more than five years. The Unclaimed Financial Assets Authority is an authority created under the Unclaimed Financial Assets Act to administer unclaimed financial assets. Click here for the latest political news