The state and the Judiciary are saving millions of shillings after launching a teleconferencing system that allows witnesses to testify through skype. So far,the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions has saved Sh3.6 million used in ferrying witnesses from abroad. Instead of witnesses traveling to Kenya to testify, they can now do that through the teleconferencing system. This has also saved court's time. The Mombasa assistant DPP Alexander Muteti said the law court is the first station to implement the use of these systems. Two courtrooms are fully fitted with the large screens and other IT systems. He said several stations, including courts in Nairobi, have installed the systems. Muteti said they also consider several factors, including the security of the witnesses, before having them testify on skype. It is really time saving. We are moving away from archaic system and joining the rest of advanced judicial systems,”he said.This is also part of witness protection rules issued by former CJ Willy Mutunga, where a witness could testify without physically being in court. If a witness travels from abroad, the state has to cater for their travel and accommodation in Kenya, which, according to Muteti, may cost Sh300,000 per witness. However, with this new system, only one person, a court clerk, who will administer oath is required to travel The Kenyan embassy in that country will be required to facilitate for a temporary courtroom where the witnesses will take stand. The embassy will also provide a translator in case the witness cannot communicate in English. Mombasa station manager, noted they were saving a lot of court's funds and time. “We are using very little money from our witness expenses kitty. I hope this system will be fully implemented,” Mombasa chief magistrate Evans Makori said. At least 13 witnesses from Italy,German,UK and Iran have testified using this system. Four witnesses testified from Italy in a case where three people are accused of robbery with violence, leading to the death of an Italian tourist in Watamu. The witnesses said they were too traumatized by the incident therefore could not come back to Kenya. Last week,two toxicologists from UK testified in an inquest proceedings into the death of Briton tycoon Harry Veevers whose body still lies at the Coast general hospital five years after his death. Four Iranians have also testified in a piracy case where five people were accused of hijacked a ship in the Indian ocean