From banning plastic bags, to eying a ban on plastic bottles, the government now intends to issue its first green bond in the 2018-19 financial year in what appears to be a fight against climate change. The bond will be used to fund projects that have positive environmental and, or climate benefits. It will be issued locally, but open to foreign investors. Speaking during the Kenyan Bankers Association Catalyst Awards held yesterday in Nairobi, Treasury director general of budget, fiscal and economic affairs Geoffrey Mwau confirmed the bond will be used to invest in environmental projects and provide a long-term source of green financing. postponed for second time He called on the Capital Markets Authority in partnership with other stakeholders to come up with guidelines for issuing the bond. “Green investments support economic growth in a clean, resilient and sustainable manner such as initiatives to encourage more efficient use of resources, reduced pollution and mitigate environmental damage,” Mwau said. This is the second time the government is postponing the issuing of the Green bond, having started discussionS in 2016 and announcing it would be issued first in 2017. Mwau said the delay was caused by what he termed “preparatory work” Commercial Banks While the government has expressed its interest in issuing the Green bond, commercial banks are a step ahead on how they intend to issue the bond and have come up with guiding principles. According to KBA chief executive Habil Olaka, banks have come up with three ideas within the Kenya Green Bond Programme: Issuing it through an individual bank within the banking sector going out to the market as a corporate and issuing a green bond, or a combined facility where a number of banks come together and issue through a collective vehicle. This is where one bond is issued, but is available in a number of banks. The third way is where a corporate customer of a bank can come out and issue a green bond. “We hope to have the inaugural issue of the bond within this financial year, and as the government introduces its sovereign bond in the 2018-19 financial year, the corporate sector will also issue a Green bond that will effectively ride on what has been laid down by the sovereign green bond,” Olaka said. The Treasury and KBA did not disclose the total value of their respective bonds or how long it will be issued.   