NASA activist Johnson Muthama has sued the government for suspending his passport, saying the action is arbitrary and violates his constitutional rights. The former Machakos senator wants the court to restrain the government from suspending or cancelling his Kenyan passport pending conclusion of the case. He is one of at least 14 NASA leaders and members whose passports were suspended on Monday. They were ordered to surrender the documents in 21 days. Targetted are those linked to Raila Odinga’s swearing-in as People’s President and NASA’s National Resistance Movement, which has been proscribed. In an application filed at the High Court in Nairobi, Muthama says the law does not allow the state to arbitrarily withdraw his passport without any reasons. If there is any ground, he must be informed and allowed to object and lodge an appeal, Muthama says. He says he is entitled to a passport under the Constitution and any suspension is limited to the grounds under Section 31-1 of the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act 2011. The Act and Constitution allow fore revocation of a passport in line with Article 24, which limits some rights. Article 12-1(b) of the Constitution says every citizen is entitled to a Kenyan passport and any document of registration or identification issued by the state to citizens. However, Article 12-2 says the passport “may be denied, suspended or confiscated only in accordance with an Act of Parliament that satisfies the criteria mentioned in Article 24 [of the Constitution].” Muthama says the letter by the director of immigration does give him an opportunity to appeal. Through lawyer John Khaminwa, he says his right to a passport is not limited or curtailed by the Immigration department nor the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act. “The actions of the respondents were arbitrary and ultra-vires to the Act and the principle of natural justice,” the petition reads. Muthama argues that unless the court restrains the government, he fears he will suffer a great loss and damage of his Constitutional rights and freedoms. He has sued Director of Immigration Major General (Rtd) Gordon Kihalangwa, the Department of Immigration Service, Inspector General Joseph Boinnet and Attorney General Githu Muigai. According to the letter from the Ministry of Interior, Muthama was told to surrender his passport to the director of Immigration Services at Nyayo House, Nairobi, within 21 days of receipt of the letter sent on Monday. “Failure to comply shall render the passport null and void,” the letter said.