Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has hinted he will run for presidency in 2022 after completing his second term. He said he has performed exemplary well as governor and has what it takes to run for a national office. Oparanya spoke during a funeral in Khwisero, Butere, on Saturday. “You have seen how we have worked to transform Kakamega. In 2022, I will be looking for a higher seat because my development record at the county can be seen by everyone,” he said Oparanya said he had on many occasions helped politicians from the Mulembe nation, including ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula, to seek the presidency and it is time they reciprocated. “I can’t be helping people every day. It’s time they also help me. As they have been unable to clinch the seat, let them leave this thing and pave the way for me,” he said. He said Musalia and Wetang’ula have “stagnated” for so long and the community should focus on helping another leader to ascend to the presidency. “You can’t be helping a child to walk and two years after birth he still can’t walk. You better try another one,” he said. He urged Luhyas to support their own, saying only a person from the region understands their problems. “I have changed Kakamega because I understand your problems. You will not expect a person from Eldoret to come and solve your problems,” he said. Oparanya also faulted Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli for re-endorsing Mudavadi as the Luhya community spokesperson. He said Atwoli has proved he has “no firm stand”. “Atwoli is a respected leader and he should always have a firm stand, else people will never trust him. Changing tune every now and then is not fair,” he said. Oparanya also criticised the Jubilee administration for running the country into huge debts. He said the trend is dangerous. “Let’s prepare for hard times. The national debt the Jubilee administration has plunged this country into will hurt even our second generation,” he said. He said the Jubilee administration has failed to release funds to the counties four months down the line, hurting operations.“They have crippled our activities and we are even struggling to pay our staff,” he said.