The music of the
90s has a special place in the hearts of people who grew up and/or
partied in that era. The New Jack Swing, old school Hip Hop and R&B
genres had taken a back seat with the turn of the century as music
evolved. They are, however,
making a comeback as has recently been witnessed in form of recent
sampling of hit songs from that era. American hip-hop/rap artist Mann
released a cover version of the song, return of the Mark by Mark
Morrison originally released in 1996. Further evidence of this is the
new hit Single by Bruno Mars featuring Cardi B – Finesse which
heavily incorporates New Jack Swing beats and production styles. In a bid to
capitalise on this resurgence of music, local show promoters, theme
night organisers and DJs are hosting 90’s themed parties. These
events are attended by both the young and the old alike and feature
music strictly from this time period. One such event,
the New Jack Swing, was hosted by DJ E last December 2017 at the
Carnivore Simba Saloon. "Many of the friends I grew up with kept
urging me to host a theme night that catered for their tastes of
music, which are similar to mine. By the time the Carnivore
approached me to host a theme night; there was only one option for me
– New Jack Swing," he said Although the New
Jack Swing theme night had been hosted periodically in yesteryears,
its popularity was steadily diminishing. DJ E has sought to
re–energise it and by enhancing its appeal. He tries to achieve
this by making sure revellers get their money’s worth of
entertainment at the event. "I am not capitalising on the new wave
of old school music. I am merely organising and hosting a theme night
where I play music that I love for people with a similar taste. My
payment comes in the form of watching people enjoying themselves
thoroughly on the dance floor." For the December edition of New Jack Swing, DJ E teamed up with
another Old School head, DJ Andre. DJ Andre hosts a similar event
albeit weekly at the popular 1824 bar on Sundays dubbed Sunday
School. "Partnering up with like-minded people leads to the success
of any venture. I always enjoy playing alongside DJ E," DJ Andre said. DJ E concludes: "Following the success and immense support of the first night I
hosted at the Carnivore, I will definitely be organiszing more old
School events through my company Mzuka Media Group." Click here for the latest political news