Heavy rainfall will hit many parts of the country beginning tomorrow, the weatherman has announced. The rains will be more widespread and heavier in some areas on Friday and Saturday. Most parts of the country will receive the showers beginning tomorrow afternoon. However, head of meteorological department Peter Ambenje said Central Kenya — Embu, Nyeri and Tharaka — and Nairobi are expected to receive the rains beginning today evening. “Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are expected over few places on Wednesday increasing to several places to thereafter. The afternoon rainfall is expected to be heavy on Saturday,” he said. However, these are not the long rains, which are still predicted to start end of March in most places. Farmers still need to consult with their local agricultural extension workers to know when to plant. In the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, Central and South Rift Valley, afternoon showers and thunderstorms will grow heavier toward the weekend. “The showers are expected to be heavy to very heavy from Friday,” he said. This region comprises the counties of Siaya, Migori, Kisii, Uasi nGishu, Kericho, Bungoma and Busia among others. Northwestern Counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu are expected to experience light evening showers tomorrow Thursday increasing to several places between Friday and Saturday. “The showers are expected to be quite heavy on Saturday 3rd March 2018,” Ambenje said. Northeastern Kenya will receive afternoon showers and thunderstorms today, Sunday and Monday. “The rainfall is expected to be heavy on Friday and Saturday,” Ambenje said. Counties of Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and TaitaTaveta will have afternoon showers over several places tomorrow to Saturday reducing to few places. The showers are likely to be heavy on Friday and Saturday. The Coastal Strip will receive the showers expected from Friday onwards. The seven day forecast comes after the ministry released a three-month forecast predicting depressed rainfall in most parts of the country, especially the eastern region, during the March-May long rains season. Ambenje said the long rains will begin end of March in most parts of Western, Central Rift Valley and parts of Central Kenya and Nairobi. Northeastern will be last to receive it in the first two weeks of April. "The configuration in the Indian Ocean is currently not favourable for good seasonal rainfall in the country, especially over the eastern sector," the official explained. Eastern region comprises Embu, Tharaka-Nithi, Meru, Isiolo, and eastern parts of Marsabit county. He issued the remarks when he presented the three-month forecast at a meeting that all regional meteorological officers attended. Ayub Shaka, a senior assistant director at the department, said they now give the seasonal forecast at least one month before rains begin to help in planning. The forecast shows food basket counties are likely to receive near-normal rainfall which might improve as time goes. "This means although the rest of the country will have less than average rainfall, there is likely to be enough food." Read: Brace for heavy rains from Tuesday, weatherman warns coast residents