Opposition
Chief Raila Odinga has kicked off an aggressive plan to revamp ODM as a
formidable political machine amid vicious squabbles that threaten to tear apart
the NASA coalition. Raila's
new game plan emerged just a day after a near- implosion of the Opposition
coalition, with legislators from three affiliate parties openly telling Wiper
leader Kalonzo Musyoka to shape up or ship out. But
the honeymoon may not last long for Musalia Mudavadi's ANC and Moses Wetang’ula's
Ford Kenya as well. Read: NASA fallout as partners cry foul over ODM tyranny Angry
Raila allies are threatening to kick out the three affiliates from key
parliamentary committee leadership positions, accusing them of riding on ODM's
back with “insignificant political capital”. “We
no longer care. These guys have joked with us long enough. They are not
committed, they don't have the numbers and they are now sabotaging the
coalition,” a close Raila ally, who requested anonymity, protested. The
Star has established that Raila has convened the ODM National Executive
Committee meeting on Friday next week that will be followed the day after by a
bigger convention of the National Governing Council. The
NGC comprises all the party’s 98 elected MPs, governors and county chairmen. At
the crux of the two meetings is the replacement of at least 11 former officials,
including former Secretary-General Ababu Namwamba, who dramatically quit in the
run-up to the 2017 polls. A vocal NASA official is highly tipped to succeed the
former Budalang’i MP as the party spokesman. Read: Merge NASA affiliate parties to stem fallout, leaders say Also
to be discussed is the increasingly strenuous relationship between the
affiliate parties, amid fears that the coalition is headed for an acrimonious
split over unreasonable demands on its senior partner. Without
expounding on the agenda, the ODM Chairman and National Assembly Minority
leader John Mbadi confirmed that the two meetings were in the offing. “Yes,
we have an NEC on February 22 and NGC the next day,” Mbadi told the Star in a
text message yesterday. Sources
said ODM is scouting for an ingenious political mobiliser, especially for the critical
Secretary-General slot, to re-awaken the party's grassroots networks. ODM
was Kenya's biggest political party for 10 years but lost the status after the
Jubilee merger of 11 affiliate parties into one political machine on September
10 2016. There
has been a discreet but vigorous push for Raila to scout for new political
allies, especially after his co-principals chickened out of his January 30 “inauguration”
as the “People’s President”. His
“Deputy President” candidate, Kalonzo Musyoka, has been blowing hot and cold,
vowing to also take the “oath” but placing unclear demands in the way. His
party has also been embroiled in a bitter fight for a slot on the crucial
Parliamentary Service Commission. ODM
will also be seeking to fill the vacancies of two out of three vice-chairmanships
vacated by Eldas MP Adan Keynan and former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma to join
Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok. Cracks
widened in NASA after Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang’ula skipped Raila's swearing-in
on January 30 after weeks of charging the supporters. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent Their
absence triggered a backlash, with Kalonzo being branded a traitor by some
ardent coalition supporters. But Raila remained cordial and defensive of his
co-principals against the reprisals. What
broke the proverbial camel’s back was the decision by Wiper to unilaterally
write to Parliament last week, staking a claim to a slot in the Parliamentary
Service Commission. “The
only communication we expect from Wiper is when Kalonzo Musyoka will be sworn
in. Not those underhand games,” Uriri MP Mark Nyamita protested. Nominated
MP Godfrey Osotsi was even more blunt: “Wiper should state categorically if it
walked out of NASA without our knowledge. We also urge the Speaker not to act
on any letter, but instead refer the matter to the relevant structures of
NASA,” he said. ODM
is by far the superior member of the coalition, with 98 MPs in both the Senate
and the National Assembly, followed by Wiper (26), ANC (17) and Ford Kenya
(13). The
Orange party is now threatening to use its parliamentary strength to reclaim
its rightful share and push out the affiliates from lucrative positions they
hold in Parliament, courtesy of the NASA agreement. The
sword is being directed at Ford Kenya’s Wetang’ula, who is the Minority leader
in the Senate and Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa (deputy Minority Whip, National
Assembly). Others
are Wiper Party’s Mutula Kilonzo (Minority Whip, Senate), Jessica Mbalu
(Speaker’s Panel) and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui (deputy Minority Leader, National
Assembly). Read: ODM hijacked Raila and Kalonzo swearing-in plans, Wiper says  Click here for the latest political news  