Kiambu county First Lady Susan Dung’u on Friday launched a Mark of Life Foundation to help residents with free on health, education and nutrition issues. The initiative is geared towards improving living standards of residents. Dung'u said communicable diseases were a major challenge in six subcounties she had toured out of the 12. Governor Ferdinand Waititu who was present said that patients seeking medical treatment in local hospitals had increased from 800 to 1,500 daily which had stretched the facilities and work force. He said his government plans to put up two level four hospitals in Githunguri and limuru subcounties and will expand Kiambu Level 5 hospital as it is receiving 700 to 100 patients daily, many from outside the county. The high number of patients means we need to expand the facility,” he said. “Through innovation, inclusion and collaboration with the government, private sector and development partners, Mark of Life Foundation will create an impact in Kiambu County. We want to implement development models that can be replicated nationally,” said the first lady. Waititu said that patients seeking medical treatment in local hospitals had increased from 800 to 1,500 daily which had stretched the facilities and work force. "My government plans to put up two level four hospitals in Githunguri and limuru subcounties and will expand Kiambu level five hospital as it is receiving 700 to 100 patients daily, many from outside the county. The high number of patients means we need to expand the facility,” he said. The county first lady said nationally recognized healthcare and social challenges such as cancers, HIV/AIDS teenager pregnancies and subsequent school drop outs are experienced at the heart of the county. "In fact, 10% of the county population of people living with HIV (PLHIV) is said to constitute of young men and women. Further, 12.7% of the girls aged between 15-19 years are observed to have given birth. In the Central region, Kiambu County records the highest rates of teenage pregnancy and motherhood. These issues form the foundation of Mark of Life Foundation, which stands on three pillars: healthcare, education and nutrition," she said. The first lady said she had toured six subcounties out of 12 saying that non communicable diseases were a major problem within the county as many did not know how to get help or even get treated. "We are reaching out to the people in the grassroots are we realized that not communicable diseases was really affecting families and most did not have financial muscle to deal with the diseases,"said The first lady. The foundation looks to utilize the power of education to develop human potential. As such, First Lady will strive to offer children and young people from unprivileged backgrounds an education that will encourage their independence and enhance their ability to contribute to their communities. Kiambu county Chief officer health Andrew Toro encouraged health initiatives aimed at complementing the health services offered by the county health sector sayiong that it will help out those who are unable to reach hospitals. Toro said that the hypertension cancer and diabetes were the major non communicable diseases affecting kiambu residents and more efforts and partnerships will go along way in helping the residents deal with the disease. The first lady said to alleviate the health conditions of the county, the Foundation will adopt a preventative approach. "Through regular free medical camps the initiative will provide free cancer screening services, health check ups and HIV Testing and Counseling Services (HTCs). Nutrition guidelines and supplements will also be provided to pregnant women, nursing mothers and individuals suffering from acute illnesses,"she said.   