ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi is not courageous and those who flip-flopped and reindorsed him as Luhya spokesman are “hypocrites”, Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali has said. The National Assembly Majority Chief Whip’s comments on Monday were clearly a reference to Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli. The union leader had ‘crowned’ Mudavadi spokesman in December 31, 2016, then denounced him after he skipped Raila Odinga’s swearing-in on January 30. And then they reconciled on Sunday. Speaking to journalists on Monday at the CDF offices in Mumias, Washiali said Atwoli has no moral authority to endorse anyone as Luhya spokesman. “I respect Atwoli, but before making such a decision he should consult the community,” Washiali said. He also said Mudavadi was not bold and hasn’t helped the Luhya community. “Mudavadi is not courageous. Since he was installed as spokesperson at Bukhungu Stadium, he has done nothing. He has not spoken out against issues facing the community.” Companies in Western Kenya such as Mumias Sugar, Nzoia Sugar and Pan Paper Mills were on the verge of collapse but Mudavadi never spoke about them, Washiali said. Only the Jubilee administration helped, he said. Washiali said if the meeting organised by Atwoli at his Khwisero home on Sunday was for the whole community, then all leaders should have been invited. He said the opposition is starting early 2022 politics. Mudavadi and Atwoli reconciled at that meeting. They had fallen out following the ANC leader’s failure to attend Raila’s swearing-in as ‘People’s President. Mudavadi has been under pressure from NASA supporters. Co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang’ula also skipped the oathing. Atwoli had called Mudavadi a coward. “I called Mudavadi and asked him if he would attend, but he said he would not be there. I will never support him again,” Atwoli said on February 2. On Sunday, Mudavadi tried to appease supporters and mend fences with Luhya elders. His backers said the people causing rifts in ANC want to block his 2022 presidential bid. “Those insulting Mudavadi know his potential. He will be on the ballot for the top seat,” Kwisero MP Christopher Aseka MP said on Monday. Last week, Lugari MP Ayub Savula said Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and nominated MP Godffrey Osotsi are traitors. He said they are destroying the family. Click here for the latest political news