Upon election as Laikipia governor, I embarked on seeking a lasting solution to insecurity, which comes in many forms, the latest being invasion of private land by livestock herders. At the request of Tiaty MP William Kamket, and the then Tangulbei MCA Korosi Selemoi, I hosted political leaders and security agents from Laikipia, Baringo, Samburu, and Isiolo in an inter-county security consultative forum. It was agreed that Pokot herders who had invaded private land in Laikipia would exit through a defined route. In September last year, a second forum was held, with more than 130 participants present. A technical committee was formed to drive the peace agenda and engage with the national government. West Pokot and Turkana counties, though not having a direct border with Laikipia, asked to be granted observer status in future meetings. These meetings led to the formation of the Amaiya Triangle Initiative. The initiative has received support from the national government and development partners. Moreover, the four counties have committed to reflect the joint programmes and actions in their five-year County Integrated Development Plans, which my colleagues Mohammed Kuti, Stanley Kiptis, Moses Lenolkulal and myself endorsed in a summit on January 3 in Nanyuki. Six elements will be tackled through the initiative to not only reduce conflict but also increase wealth and the general well-being of our people. The first is to modernise the livestock sector. Poor animal husbandry, drought and insecurity are the major obstacles in the commercialisation of the sector. We have embarked on tagging livestock using Radio Frequency Identification microchips. The aim is to manage animal product quality for ease of marketing and sale, and creating a verifiable ownership record. This will provide easy access to credit and control livestock theft, which compounds insecurity. The Mifugo ni Mali programme, run by the KCB Foundation, targets 40,000 cattle in the pilot stage. To mitigate against drought, we are also promoting livestock feedlots and investing in water harvesting and conservation. We realise that when there is lack of pasture and water, conflict results between farmers and livestock keepers. With feedlots and water pans in strategic areas with enough water, conflict will decline. We are in the process of developing a collective water master plan that we shall rollout by June. It will allow for effective coordination of water towers, harvesting and utilisation for the benefit of upstream and downstream users. In the long run, we shall have developed a profitable, sustainable livestock economy and rid ourselves of the cycle of land invasion, displacement, killings and suffering that come every drought season. The four counties have committed to promote commercial fodder production. The potential for fodder production in Laikipia is immense, since the county is predominantly pasture land. We are committed to encouraging this among large-scale ranchers and small-scale farmers in areas such as Tigithu, Ngobit, Rumuruti and Gatundia, where fodder grows. Fodder farming can be made a profitable venture, particularly during the dry season. The county department of Agriculture is helping growers to identify grass seed varieties suitable to Laikipia. The World Bank, DfID and UNDP have committed to providing technical assistance to the initiative while the national government, through the State Department of Livestock and Fisheries, and the KCB Foundation, have committed resources. With the success of this initiative, Laikipia and the entire Amaiya Triangle Counties will hopefully realise lasting peace. Muriithi is Laikipia governor