JamboPay – the company automating services at City Hall - has moved to absolve itself from claims it is responsible for revenue losses by the county government. Last week, Finance executive Vesca Kangogo told a committee of the county assembly City Hall has incurred huge revenue losses due to frequent failure of the online system. JamboPay chief executive Danson Muchemi denied the claim, and instead blamed frequent internet disruptions at City Hall and weak enforcement by the county for the continued dismal revenue performance. Muchemi said JamboPay has integrated its systems with those of City Hall and that any time the internet connection to the county headquarters is disconnected, its operations are also grounded. “They are not paying for internet on time. Some of the things, like instant generation of receipts, we get them from their internal systems and if there is no internet, then there is nothing much we can do,” he said. Ejijipay Speaking to the Star in his office last Thursday, Muchemi said the county experiences downtime almost daily because of its failure to pay for internet services. “But again I cannot deny that sometimes the systems can be low. That happens. But that cannot happen across all our payment platforms. It is just impossible,” he said. JamboPay, through its mobile payment system – Ejijipay – allows for payment of services using USSD on any cellphone, that is, by dialing *217# and through the Ejijipay App downloadable from the Google Playstore. Residents can also pay through the web on the Nairobi government website’s online payment platform. Muchemi said the county has failed to crackdown on fees defaulters despite the system relying on real time information. Corruption The system, for instance, shows where vehicles are parked in the more than 12,000 parking slots in the city, whether they have been paid for or not and also shows vehicle registration numbers. “This information is real time, but we still go ahead and download the information and send it to them via email for action,” Muchemi said. Between February 1 and 15, only 579 out of 14,208 vehicles whose parking fees were not paid, were clamped. Parking attendants who collude with motorists have been blamed for the losses. The county collected Sh777.3 million in the first 15 days of February with single business permits generating Sh166.7 million, land rates Sh189.2 million and seasonal parking netting Sh81.6 million. In January, JamboPay collected Sh1.6 billion for the county. City Hall has automated more than 90 per cent of its 136 revenue streams, pushing its daily collections to between Sh80 and Sh100 million, up from between Sh7 million and Sh10 million before the automation. This, Kengogo says, is still below the county’s potential. The county aims to collect Sh16 billion by June. It had collected Sh6 billion as at mid- February.