The Lands ministry has undergone a major shake-up and is on the path towards being competitive and vibrant. Outgoing CS Jacob Kaimenyi yesterday said great strides have been made. “We have issued 3.2 million title deeds as we endeavoured to make the sector globally competitive and a hub for benchmarking,” he said. Kaimenyi spoke at Ardhi House, where he handed over to new CS Farida Karoney. He has been posted as permanent representative to Unesco, Paris. Kaimenyi said there have been challenges. One such was the tussle between the ministry and the National Land Commission. It was resolved by the Supreme Court. The NLC in April 2014 sought the court’s opinion regarding its functions and mandate and the ministry’s. Kaimenyi said he reformed land control boards, which were formerly dominated by men and unqualified staff. “We had also invited the EACC to do a system audit of the ministry and the report is with you,” he said. This sent shockwaves among senior staff previously linked to graft allegations. Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri, Land Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri, NLC CEO Tom Chavangi, NLC vice chairperson Abigael Mukolwe, NLC commissioners and senior ministry staff were present at the handover. Kaimenyi said the ministry is keen to develop a land bank, especially for mega projects. “In the quest to implement the Big Four, there is need for a land bank since we want to be clear when we have land, where it is and challenges,” he said. Stepping on toes Kaimenyi said a national land value index has been developed to rein in land speculators. “Speculators put up projects in places they hear there will be mega government projects, making land compensation costly. The bill will rein [them in] by providing alternative land or government bounds,” he said. Kaimenyi said the bill, which will specify the number of acres one person can own, is ready for public participation. Swazuri said there has been a sharp rise in the number of land cases. He said they inherited 9,000 cases in 2013, with the oldest being from the 1940s, and they have resolved 2,500. With the 2010 Constitution, the cases are now 10,500. Swazuri urged individuals with land disputes to use alternative dispute resolution mechanisms as they are faster and free. Karoney promised to carry on with reforms aimed at wiping out cartels and making the lands sector competitive. She said she will use her experience as a journalist to tell Kenyans what is happening in the sector. “If I step on Swazuri’s toes, let it not be blown out of proportion because collusion should not be to the detriment of service delivery,” Karoney said.