Junet Mohamed wants speaker Justin Muturi to talk to president Uhuru Kenyatta about the withdrawal of NASA leaders' security. Officers attached to several Opposition leaders were disarmed and reassigned at the General Service Unit headquarters. The legislators told The Star that the manipulation of the National Police Service, to serve the interests of Jubilee, will not change their ideological stand to push for equality, respect, good governance and electoral justice. More on this: State withdraws NASA leaders bodyguards Read: Raila, Kalonzo security detail withdrawn ahead of anti-IEBC protests And in a letter to the speaker on Thursday, Junet said: "The withdrawal is discriminatory to members of the minority who seems to have been targeted." The Suna East MP added: "Nothing portrays the illegitimacy and incompetence of the Jubilee executive than these illegal, reprehensible and totally primitive reactions to a political reality whose solution lies elsewhere." Junet added that withdrawing their security was "flagrant abuse" of the constitution and the law, actions which "can only lead to more chaos". "Moreover, it serves to weaken the lawful authority of parliament. The executive continues to use state organs to perpetuate a culture of impunity." He asked Muturi to "rise to the occasion and reject the abuse of the rule of law against parliamentarians". "Laws have been passed by this parliament on fair administrative justice. It is unthinkable that state organs still act in contravention of these laws," he said. "The sum total of these barbaric, primitive and uncouth actions is that Kenya is now officially lawless states." The government on Wednesday began a crackdown on Raila's allies who were present when he was being sworn-in on January 30. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i announced they had commenced full investigations around the inauguration. "The investigations will extend to co-conspirators and facilitators. Upon completion of these investigations, appropriate legal action will be taken in accordance with the law." The gathering was largely peaceful though NASA supporters were teargassed on city streets for blocking roads. This hasn't been the case in the past when many NASA supporters have been injured or died as anti-riot police quelled chaos. More on this: NASA planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i Click here for the latest political news