The Court of Appeal has temporarily frozen the reinstatement of former Kenya Airways finance director Alex Mbugua. The airline was supposed to pay him a Sh141 million compensation package as an alternative. Mbugua sued KQ at the High Court, which ordered the national carrier to reinstate the former finance director in November last year after finding he was dismissed unfairly. High Court judge Monicah Mbaru told KQ to reinstate Mbugua and pay him Sh64.9 million as salary for the 22 months he was in the cold. She, however, gave the airline an alternative of terminating Mbugua’s contract and compensating him with an equivalent of his four-year pay, amounting to Sh141.6 million. Court of Appeal judges Asike Makhandia, William Ouko and Philip Kiage have now decided Mbugua’s fate remain in limbo until they determine KQ’s appeal. The three agreed with KQ’s argument Mbugua may not be in a position to refund the Sh141 million award, should the airline’s appeal be successful. The effect of the Court of Appeal ruling, however, means KQ’s dues to Mbugua will be even larger, should the airline’s suit fail. Three-year window “The decretal sum is not a small amount; it’s a colossal sum and therefore one understands the applicant’s apprehension or argument that the respondent might not be in a position to repay the amount. The respondent has not established his current financial position.” The judges ordered the matter determined urgently to ensure Mbugua does not miss out on the reinstatement option by law. Under Kenyan law, reinstatement of sacked employees by the courts remains open for three years after the date of dismissal. Mbugua had expressed fear the appeal may be determined after the three-year window lapses. KQ CEO Sebastian Mikosz said in the appeal papers allowing the execution of Mbaru’s judgment may jeopardise a complex restructuring it is undertaking. The restructuring has led to 11 banks converting their Sh23 billion debt into equity. Earned sh2.9m The banks - Equity, KCB, Commercial Bank of Africa, Co-operative Bank, Jamii Bora, I&M, NIC, Ecobank, Chase Bank, National Bank of Kenya and DTB - become the second largest shareholders of the national carrier after the Treasury. The lenders formed a special purpose vehicle, the KQ Lenders Company Limited, which now owns a 35.7 per cent stake in the national carrier. “The entire top management has now changed and the reintroduction of Mr Mbugua into the management of the applicant would interfere with the ‘philosophy and ethos of management’ that the deponent is seeking to inculcate in the applicant,” Mikosz said. Mbugua was earning Sh2.9 million a month at the time of his dismissal in December 2015. He, is, however, more keen on reinstatement than compensation. But KQ argues its relationship with Mbugua is frosty and the airline does not plan on accommodating him in its restructuring plan. The airline sacked Mbugua, 53, on grounds of poor performance, but his lawyer Richard Kamotho argued before the Appellate Court judges his client was competent and received commendation for his role on many occasions. Following Mbaru’s judgment in November last year, Mbugua attempted to report back to KQ’s headquarters at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, but was sent on leave after being denied entry to the offices. The former finance director told Makhandia, Ouko and Kiage KQ’s appeal will only extend his suffering, having not earned his salary since his December 2015 dismissal.