Former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire has criticised Interior CS Fred Matiang’i for "celebrating" his election defeat. On Friday last week, Matiang’i thanked the people of Kitutu Masaba for rejecting Bosire in the August 8 polls and electing Shadrack Mose. Bosire said the choreographed visit where the CS publicly celebrated his defeat raises many questions. “It is now evident that the powerful Office of the President plotted and meddled in the election to squeeze out a properly elected MP and replace him with their stooge,” he on Thursday. The former MP issued a statement in Nyamira town. Bosire said Kisii tradition prohibits an adult from celebrating another’s downfall. “For Dr Matiang’i to get ecstatic and make a celebratory run around Kitutu Masaba for my government-engineered defeat, he was exhibiting the height of demonic cruelty for reasons the public must be told,” he said. “Even witch doctors avoided publicly bragging about their success once their target fell. Kenyans recall vividly how Jaramogi Oginga Odinga deeply mourned Jomo Kenyatta when he died in 1978, despite being big political enemies. That was wisdom and fidelity to our African culture and decorum.” The ODM national treasurer told Matiang'i to run for political office to test his popularity. “Now that the CS is pretending to be a political master operative, why can’t he gather courage and join the fray in competitive politics?" Bosire said. "Why can’t he even start with vying for an MCA seat anywhere he thinks he is popular in Gusiiland we see how many votes he will manage?" Bosire told Matiang’i to steer away from Kitutu Masaba politics and concentrate on his work as CS. “Matiang’i is neither a voter nor a resident of the constituency to be so deeply embroiled in the electoral processes and events there. He is only an immigrant who settled in our neighborhood. Most Kenya African traditions prohibit visitors from taking over the authority and affairs of the hosts. Hasn’t he proved to be a rogue visitor in Nyamira with the attitude and mindset of colonial chiefs of the old?” added Bosire. Bosire termed his successor Mose as an ‘OP generated and propelled MP’. A petition against the election of Mose was on Thursday dismissed by the High Court sitting in Nyamira. Ends