Despite the tough conditiona at the par 72 course at the Nyeri Golf Club, home player Samuel Kiragu fired two similar rounds of 72 points to emerge victorious in the second round of the Kenya Amateur Golf Championship, formerly Goty. Taking full advantage of the home turf conditions, Kiragu posted level par 144 gross to win the event dubbed the Mt Kenya Championship ahead of Railways’ George Muraguri on 2 over par 146 and defending champion Edwin Mudanyi, who managed 4 over par 148. Kiragu, who is seeking to make his presence felt on the national series, had his campaign effectively sewn up when big names failed to master the Nyeri conditions. It was a a bad day in the office for most of the gofers, who travelled to Nyeri to try and improve their points tally in the national series. Royal’s Dennis Saikwa, who was one of the top contenders last season, could only manage 46th place with disappointing 79 and 79 on round one and two. Former national team captain Robinson Owiti also suffered humiliation in Nyeri with scores of 76 and 76 and a gross total of 11 over par 155. As if to prove the tough conditions in Nyeri, former multiple champion John Karichu of Limuru shot 73 and 81 for a gross total of 10 over par 154 to finish a disappointing 30th place. Karirch was the victor at Sigona Bowl. Meanwhile, Christine Ocholla of Muthaiga won the the second leg of the Barclays Golf Series at the par 72 Karen Country Club over the weekend. Playing off handicap 27, She fire an impressive 45 to win the event, which is being used as a qualifier for the Barclays Kenya Open Pro-Am. Ocholla posted six pars including three of the course’s par five, to rack up a superb winning score of 45 points. Limuru’s Davies Maina shot a total of 43 points to vanquish Tom Simba by a solitary point as Railway’s Caren Agengo returned a total score of 41 points to claim the ladies’ first prize— four points over Karen’s Betty Gacheru. Two other Karen players Irene Auma and Robert Keter won the first and second nine with scores of 23 and 22 points. Moses Kiboi, also a Karen member, won the staff prize with 34 points but after beating Omar Yusuf of Muthaiga on countback. Davies Maina also led his team of L. Munyua and D. Hotte to claim the team prize with a score of 38 points. The first round of the Barclays Golf Tour was won by Andrew Chelogoi in Eldoret last year.