Police have recovered nearly 300 cattle out of the 875 stolen in a raid in the Ole Naishu ranch in Laikipia North two weeks ago. Three suspects were arrested in the joint operation. Laikipia county police commander Simon Kipkeu said it was launched on Saturday by police from Laikipia, Isiolo and Samburu. On February 7, county commissioner Onesmus Musyoki led the security team to Ol Kinyei, al Jiju and Lokusero villages. Administrators were warned of dire consequences if they did not produce the stolen cows within 48 hours. Intelligence reports indicated Mukogodo community members aided the invaders. They housed and facilitated them in exchange for animals. In the first raid in early January, cattle rustlers stole 700 animals. Police recovered them before they were driven into the Mukogodo Forest. In a second raid on January 31, an estimated 100 heavily armed assailants attacked Ole Naishu. National Police Rerservists and police were overwhelmed and the cattle were driven off. At the northern boundary of the ranch, the cattle were split into smaller herds and driven into Mukogodo. An Anti-stock Theft Unit team initially recovered 100 cattle after several shootouts. The 600 cattle still missing are worth Sh50 million approximately. Jeremy Block, the owner of the Dorman Coffee Company, bought Ole Naishu in 1998. County commissioner Musyoki said it is impossible for so many cows to pass through residents’ homes unnoticed. The government will reclaim the guns of 200 reservists and sack chiefs and their assistants if the cows are not returned. Kipkeu advised the community grazing at Mukogodo to remove the animals before a major operation is conducted. On Sunday, one suspected cattle rustler was arrested at Loruk on the border of Isiolo and Laikipia. The teenager was found with an illegal AK47 rifle and 35 bullets. “Ten of the stolen animals were recovered at the weekend, but, as time goes by, we are certain more will be surrendered to security officers. Chiefs are assisting us in tracing the animals but some are not cooperating and risk interdiction,” Musyoki said. On Monday, the county commissioner said the County Security Committee would meet to decide what to do about chiefs and NPRs who abet cattle rustling. 