The Kenya Hockey Union leagues come to a wrap this weekend as Premiership champions elect, Kenya Police and Telkom, awaits coronation at the City Park Stadium tomorrow. The two finished top of their respective leagues and although Telkom play their final match of the season against Mombasa Sports Club, the result will count for nothing. It will be a sweet moment for the law enforcers, who last won the title in 2013, and although they came close last season, their efforts were crushed by outgoing champions Strathmore University. Kenneth Kaunda’s side are now looking forward to representing the country at the Africa Club Championships set for later this year in Nigeria. Kaunda said consistency has been key towards reclaiming the trophy. “It was about that time. We begun the season on a high and although we faltered along the way, drawing once and losing one match, we picked up ourselves and continued with the good run. I am glad our efforts have paid off,” said Kaunda. On the other hand, Telkom coach Jos Openda noted that there is no time to rest ahead of the upcoming season and the club championships. “We will be playing for pride when we face Mombasa Sports. However, it pained that we didn’t defend our title in Ghana. Our focus is to reclaim the African title this and at the same time show no mercy to our local competitors in the 2018 season,” said Openda. However, the clash pitting Telkom and MSC will offer chance for Audrey Omaido to challenge Jackie Mwangi in the battle for the top scorer’s accolades. Mwangi has scored 25 goals, while Omaido boast of 22 goals. Strathmore University’s Festus Onyango is the top scorer in the men’s side with 20 goals. In other women’s premier league matches, second-placed United States International University Africa take on MSC today. The students are already assured of finishing second and with it a chance to  debut at the Africa club event, alongside regulars Telkom. In the men’s national league, Pool ‘A’ leaders Wazalendo Masters have a date with pool ‘B’ runners up Kisumu Youngster, while pool ‘B’ leaders Multi Media University take on pool ‘A’ runners up Mvita XI in the semifinal stage as battle for Premier League slots hots up. Winners in both ties will then proceed to the final and will be assured of a slot in the top tier next season.