Elgeyo Marakwet MCAs have called for a probe of the Kenya Forest Service officials over destruction of forests in the county. They said irresponsible logging has taken place under the watch of KFS officials. The ward reps spoke in Iten on Monday. Meanwhile, saw millers continued to harvest trees in the Kaptchemutwa Forest, some 10 kilometres from Iten despite Deputy President William Ruto's order banning logging. Nominated MCA Lawi Kibire accused KFS of corruption. He said KFS officers were colluding with illegal loggers. “What is going on is a clear indication of corruption within KFS. Officers supposed to protect the forests are doing the opposite,” Kibire said. The county lawmakers welcomed Ruto's order. Speaker Philemon Sabulei said KFS had failed to protect forests. He accused KFS wardens in the county of colluding with illegal loggers to destroy sections of Kapchemutwa and Embobut forests, which are vital water catchment areas in the county. The reps lauded the moratorium issued by the Deputy President on Friday and called on the Ministry of Environment to use the 90-day period to come up with a lasting solution to decimation of forest resources. “We will ensure that, after the ban is lifted, all KFS officers who are known to be colluding with illegal loggers should never work in this county,” Kibire said. He added: “I will be bringing a motion for the conservation of riparian reserves so that we allocate funds in protecting riparian resources in our next budget.” He accused some saw millers he referred as ‘economic thugs’ and who come from other counties of destroying forests to the detriment of locals who are now facing the effects of climate change. He asked the ministry of environment to formulate strict guidelines on allocation, harvesting and transportation of forest resources. Speaker Sabulei said locals no longer benefit from forests after KFS failed to control haphazard logging in gazette forests. Sabulei told county governments to take decisive action to regulate logging and find ways of ensuring that locals benefit from forest products. “As a county assembly, we want to have a law that is in tandem with international best practices and that which helps the community to play a critical role in conservation of forests. Nothing can stop communities from signing a MoU with KFS on forest conservation and management,” he said. Elgeyo Marakwet KFS conservator Andrew Soi denied the corruption allegation and maintained that the service has not violated the law in issuance of logging licenses. He said the DP’s orders will be enforced  