The public has until tomorrow to submit memoranda on the nine Cabinet Secretaries, seven Principal Secretaries and seven ambassadors nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kenyans were given a week to submit the memoranda to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, through House Clerk Michael Sialai. Only Jubilee MPs will vet the nominees on Thursday and Friday. This is because NASA, led by Majority leader John Mbadi, said they will not participate. They say Uhuru’s administration is illegitimate. “Jubilee members are much capable to scrutinise the suitability of the nine nominated individuals to hold their respective offices,” Muturi, who chairs the parliamentary Committee on Appointments, said. Muturi said the committee has received communication from Mbadi, clarifying NASA MPs will not be part of the vetting. NASA has declined to pick its members for the Appointments Committee. I have received fresh communication from Mbadi reinstating their position not to submit names of members who will sit in the committee and I respect the decision,” Muturi said. Mbadi and his deputy Robert Mbui are automatic members of the committee. Jubilee members include Muturi, Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi, Majority leader Aden Duale, Deputy Majority leader Jimmy Angwenyi, Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali and Deputy Chief Whip Cecily Mbarire. The others are MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Joyce Emanikor (Turkana), Sabina Chege (Murang’a), David ole Sankok (nominated), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South) and Sarah Korere (Laikipia North), Lydia Mizighi (Taita Taveta), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), David Pkosing (Pokot South), Lilian Cheptoo (West Pokot), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi) and Yusuf Hassan (Kamukunji) are in the team. The CS nominees include Margaret Kobia (Public Service), Keriako Tobiko (Environment), Rashid Achesa (Sports), John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining), Peter Munya (East African Community), Simon Chelugui (Water), Farida Keroney (Lands), Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs) and Ukur Yattani (Labour). Karoney, Munya, Kobia, Munyes and Juma will appear before the pannel on Thursday. Yattani, Tobiko, Achesa and Chelugui will be vetted on Friday. Read: Jubilee only affair as MPs vet Uhuru's Cabinet Click here for the latest political news      