It has been a week full of political drama and intrigue as the Jubilee government disobeyed court orders with impunity after embarking on a draconian crackdown on Opposition leaders who attended or participated in the January 30 swearing-in ceremony. Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’ and activist Miguna Miguna were arrested in quick succession. Both men were held incommunicado in police stations outside Nairobi and denied access to lawyers and medical personnel. An attempt to arraign Miguna before a Kajiado magistrate backfired after he declined to take a plea and demanded to be transported to the Nairobi Milimani law courts as directed by a High Court judge. In a bizarre twist, the police in unexplained circumstances handed him over to the Immigration authorities who in turn deported him to Canada! If this was meant to be a face-saving exercise by Jubilee, it has backfired badly. Though Miguna holds dual citizenship, he was born and educated in Kenya. He has worked for government and recently ran unsuccessfully for Nairobi governor. His deportation was therefore in total violation of Kenyan law, as no man or woman can be deported from their domicile of birth. Jubilee displayed a vindictive side, which began during the 2013 election campaign when they vilified Western governments as racists and last year when electoral officials and the Judiciary were threatened and intimidated. There is now talk of the formation of a police gestapo to harass and arrest more Opposition members. Paradoxically, there appear to be no plans to arrest Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The government has also withdrawn firearms and personal security from all Opposition leaders, including Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. The passports of Opposition stalwarts Johnson Muthama and David Ndii, amongst others, were surreptitiously suspended. The media was not spared as four television stations, Citizen, KTN, NTV and Inooro, were shut down. The motor vehicles of parliamentary Minority leaders were also unilaterally and covertly withdrawn. Government, in its panic, is behaving like an immature jilted bride and its actions are not anchored in law. We trust that in the fullness of time those behind these primitive acts will be sued and surcharged. The purported fake publication of the death notice of Nairobi businessman Jimi Wanjigi in the obituary pages of the Daily Nation newspaper hit a new low! Intimidation of the Judiciary, the press, the electoral commission and Opposition leaders are clear signs of an emerging dictatorship. If this government trusts and believes in its legitimacy, then why the panic and overt misuse of power? One is reminded of a conversation between Jesus Christ and Pontius Pilate, with the latter attempting to intimidate the former through a power play. John 19:6-11, “When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid and he went back inside the palace. “Where do you come from?” he asked Jesus, but Jesus gave him no answer. “Do you refuse to speak to me?” Pilate said. “Don’t you realise I have power to either free you or to crucify you?” Jesus answered, “You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above.” This biblical extract has valuable lessons in leadership. Pilate, undoubtedly a powerful leader, attempted to scare Jesus. His attempts hit a stone wall when a fearless Jesus calmly spoke truth to power! In essence, what Jesus meant is that all power is granted from above and sometimes through the Constitution to protect others. Power is not granted to harass, prosecute, imprison or harm others. Jubilee ought to realise that the Constitution grants the presidency power in trust. That is why Presidents swear to protect and abide by the Constitution. The presidency has no power to deport an indigenous jopadhola like Miguna Miguna. Withdrawing vehicles, passports, firearms and security from the opposition is in breach of the Constitution, as is intimidating the press, the Judiciary, electoral officials and the Opposition. Take a leadership leaf from former President Mwai Kibaki!