The government has revoked the gun licences of NASA leaders in what is seen as a crackdown on members of the National Resistance Movement. The licenses of NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi have been revoked. The state has also the firearm licence issued to Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati. The Firearms Licensing Board revoked the licences yesterday and asked the leaders to surrender their pistols and shotguns by close of business yesterday. Read : NRM crackdown? State revokes Simba Arati's gun licence “You are unfit to be trusted with a firearm,” Firearms Licensing Board secretary Samwel Kimaru told Arati in a notice dated January 30. Arati yesterday moved to court to stop police from confiscating his guns. In an urgent application filed at the Milimani Law Courts, the MP accused the government of acting in blatant disregard of the law and the Constitution. NATURAL JUSTICE His lawyer Arnold Ochieng said the decision to revoke his firearm licence was not only arbitrary but also against the rules of natural justice because he had not been given any notification or afforded an opportunity to be heard. Arati said the board’s decision was an affront to the Constitution and his right to a fair hearing. “The process leading to the making of the decision was accented with secrecy and driven by ulterior motives and political considerations in a manner that violates the provisions of the law and defeats the principles of the Constitution and right to fair administrative action,” Arati said. He said he has in the past been subjected to constant harassment, threats and intimidation by police officers. CRIMINAL GROUP Both Mudavadi and Kalonzo confirmed they had received a letter from the board about the decision to revoke their firearm licences. They said they were displeased by the move. “I have a letter withdrawing my licences as a firearm holder. I have held the firearm since 1993 and at no time have I misused it,” Mudavadi told a press conference at the Okoa Kenya offices in Nairobi yesterday. He said other NASA members, whom he would not name, had also had their licences revoked. The Constitution allows all civilians issued with firearms to be sufficiently trained in their use and have a clearance certificate from the DCI. Applicants must be aged 21 and above. Also read  : Matiang'i orders 'firm, ruthless' police action against criminals According to the Constitution, a gun licence may be revoked if a person is of unsound mind, or found to be unfit to be entrusted with such a firearm. On Tuesday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i invoked Section 22 of the Prevention of Organised Crimes Act, 2010 to declare the NRM “an organised criminal group”. Click here for the latest political news