It was all joy and happiness as Kerio Valley locals bid farewell to 2017 to usher in 2018. This peace, however, was short-lived, as bandits started unleashing terror at will. The armed bandits turned grazing fields in areas bordering Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo into battlefields, as over 400 police officers in the troubled Valley remained wobbly, choking under the gunpower of cattle rustlers. It is January 5, and the trouble begins in Chesegon on the border of Marakwet East and Pokot Central. Suspected Pokot and Marakwet clash in heavy gunfire that leaves six people dead and one person injured. More than 960 livestock, comprising cattle and goats, is stolen, and none of the stock is recovered. At the end of January, the fighting extends from the Kerio Valley to the Marakwet and West Pokot highlands, where Pokot and Marakwet neighbours have lived peacefully since 1998. Claims are also rife that more police posts have been established in Marakwet, leaving their Pokot neighbours susceptible to attacks and hence bottling bitterness over marginalisation. NEIGHBOURS TURNED FOES At the Elgeyo Marakwet-West Pokot border in Kamelei and Kipsitona, where 250 houses were torched in the latest skirmishes, mother of five Margaret Murtich is a frustrated woman. Murtich slept well that evening, not knowing the next morning she would be woken up bandits. They raided her village in Kamelei, Marakwet East, making away with at least 300 cows and 3,000 merino sheep. She says she had lived with her Pokot neighbours peacefully for 18 years, and in all these years, she was always woken up by the crow of her cock, chirping of birds or the chilling cold of the Marakwet highlands, not by scary and deadly gunfire. Murtich walks with a few items, including beddings and clothes, which she managed to grab from her house as she fled the village to Kapyego trading centre, where hundreds of other women and children sought refuge. “It was so shocking to see four people being shot in our village. Everyone scampered for safety and I am still looking for my young children. It is my hope that they are safe,” Murtich says. Phyllis Kwambai, a local pastor, says women and children are spending nights on the roadside in one of Kenya’s coldest areas, which at times experiences hailstorms. “I am appealing to Interior CS (Fred Matiang’i) to take decisive action to end this problem so our children can go back to school,” Kwambai says. Benjamin Kibor is a lucky man. He escaped by a whisker. Armed bandits raided his home and shot him in the loins, leaving the herder with a gunshot wound, the injury not life-threatening. Kibor says he was not yet awake when the brazen bandits struck. “I heard gunshots and when I rushed out of the house to check what was going on, I discovered the attackers had shot my youthful neighbour in the hand and leg. Before I reached him, I was shot in the thigh,” he recounts. Kibor says: “I helplessly watched as the cattle rustlers took away my 25 cows and 350 sheep towards West Pokot.” MARAUDING YOUTHS The attack sparks a retaliatory attack that leaves at least 250 houses on the border torched. Fears of displacement become real. The Kenya Red Cross Society warns the situation could degenerate into an ethnic war. Red Cross North Rift coordinator Michael Ayiebei says the houses were razed by youths pursuing livestock stolen in Kamelei and Kipsitona villages. “There are serious displacements on the border and this is worrying us. Women, children and elderly persons are sleeping in the cold,” Ayiabei says. He says Red Cross has provided tents, blankets and mosquito nets to hundreds of residents displaced during the attack. “I worry about retaliation because the communities no longer trust each other. Each community blames the other for the skirmishes. Political leaders should do everything to ensure peace is restored,” he said. Former IG David Kimaiyo says two of his relatives were injured during the cross-border raid. He urges Matiang’i to act swiftly to end the runaway insecurity on the border. “The situation on the border is not good. Many people are dying and others are turned to beggars after losing their livestock. As we speak, two of my relatives are nursing gunshot wounds. Seven people in Marakwet East alone have died in January,” KiImaiyo said. The former IG asks Matiang’i to generate a bill that will introduce harsh punishment for cattle rustlers and make cattle rustling a capital offence. “Today, cattle rustling is still treated like a mere theft, yet bandits maim and kill before stealing livestock. It is actually an economic sabotage because bandits take away people’s livelihoods,” Kimaiyo says. At the epicenter of the skirmishes, the Kerio Valley, nine deaths have been recorded in just a month. Two herders were recently shot dead and one police reservist seriously injured, while locals continue to spend nights on the snake-infested Kerio escarpments. The afternoon attack in Murkutwo in the Valley happens barely three days after bandits attacked herders in Marakwet highlands. Attacks in the troubled area degenerate into an orgy of maiming and killing and no livestock are stolen. Bandits suspected to be from Tiaty, Baringo county, invaded Chesoo grazing field in Murkutwo location, killing two herders from Kasegei village. Area Chief Abraham Yano says Gregory Kipkemoi, 25, and Andrew Biwott, 28, died on the spot during the midday attack. He adds that Luka Kimaiyo, a middle-aged police reservist who was shot in the jaw and left arm, was rushed to Kapsowar Mission Hospital and later referred to Moi Teaching and Referral hospital. “They struck at around midday before they were repulsed by herders and police reservists. They fled towards Loiywat in Tiaty,” Yano says. “Women and children are living in fear because these insecurity problems are becoming worse day after day,” Richard Kayab, a local peace coordinator says. CALL FOR ARRESTS Kayab says failure by security agencies to arrest bandits may further spark retaliatory attacks. A week before the Murkutwo attack, Kimoi Betaki, who is Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen’s aunt, had been laid to rest in a somber send-off in Kaben location. Betaki, 63, was shot dead in Kaben, Marakwet East, on January 27, barely two days after Peter Komen, 50, a fisherman, was killed in Arror, Marakwet West. After several peace meetings that never resolved matters, leaders from Marakwet and Pokot are now shifting the blame to the police, accusing them of laxity and failure to apprehend and charge known bandits. The leaders, led by Governor Alex Tolgos, say they are tired of endless peace meetings that don’t yield results. “Had security agencies arrested suspects when the first banditry attack began in 2016, we would not have found ourselves in the mess we are in today,” Tolgos says. The county chief banditry says attacks on the border have worsened, adding that burning of houses had previously never been witnessed during cattle rustling attacks. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen says national police reservists have also failed to restore order, guarding bandits instead of helping in recovery of stolen livestock. “Police reservists are under the command of the state. Why is it that police reservists are becoming a stumbling block in recovery of stolen animals?” the Senate majority leader asks.