ODM on Friday picked new officials to strengthen it war on electoral injustice. The party said it is strengthening its team after taking stock of the election processes. ODM officials said they are building a strong team to work with NASA affiliates to fight against electoral injustice. “When our people are confronted with the dangers of an incompetent dictatorship, then we ODM, must be competent, courageous and resolute,” party leader Raila Odinga said. Read : Nasa drops Gladys Wanga, nominates Aisha Jumwa NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Musalia Mudavadi of ANC also attended. “We are united in NASA. Building our parties is part of the process to ensure we have a strong team to fight for justice, rule of law and credible polls,” Musalia said. After several hours in a closed-door meeting, the National Executive Council unveiled a fresh team to join in the ranks of ODM leadership. In the new line-up lawyer Edwin Sifuna is the new ODM secretary general. Agnes Zani – the former secretary general –is the new deputy secretary general. She replaces former nominated Senator Elizabeth Ongoro. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya retained the two positions of the deputy party leaders. Minority leader John Mbadi also remains the ODM national chairperson. His deputies are Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok and Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ongera. Nanok is also the Chairperson of the Council of governors. The two vice chairpersons replace Paul Otuoma and Adan Keynan who left the party. Also read : Nasa confronts deadline to fix split over PSC Former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire remains the national treasurer and his deputies are Ogla Karani and Hilda Siang’a. Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori replaces the late Grace Mboja as the new secretary for Special programmes and Social Welfare. Former Shinyalu MP Justus Kizito is the new secretary for National Security after Sirisia MP John Waluke ditched ODM. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris is the new secretary for International Affairs after former Taita Woman Representative Joyce Lay joined Jubilee. Noah Kala is the new director for campaigns and politician Steve Mbogo – who lost the Starehe seat – is the secretary for Science and Technology. Click here for the latest political news