The water service provider for Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties appears on the verge of collapse because of huge debts and boardroom wars. It has been struggling to pay its staff and cannot repair water lines.This has resulted in a water shortage in the last few months. Residents have complained they have been payig for water regularly but their taps are dry. The board denies the company is about to go under and says it is facing normal challenges. These are being sorted and there’s no cause for alarm. However, Trans Nzoia Governor Patrick Khaemba and his Bungoma counterpart Wyclife Wangamati want the management overhauled. Last month the board of directors chaired by Lusweti Furaha suspended Managing Director Patrick Munialo and replaced him with acting MD Kennedy Wekesa. On Wednesday Munialo obtained High Court orders reinstating him. He has been at the helm of the company for 10 years. Can’t afford Sh2m pump Speaking to the Star after a board meeting at Webuye headquarters, Furaha said the decision to suspend Munialo was based on the advice from auditors and the water regulatory board. They cited funds mismanagement. “We obeyed the court and reinstated him. He has been invited to meetings but has absconded without apology,” Furaha said. Earlier, council askaris were reportedly deployed to block Munialo from entering his office after reports he was to report on Thursday. “The firm, which used to have a monthly turnover of Sh30 million, can hardly afford a Sh2 million pump,” a staff member who sought anonymity said. Addressing the press on Thursday in Webuye town after a closed-door meeting, chairman Furaha said the firm is facing normal challenges that are being sorted out. He said the public should not misinterpret what is going on as a big deal. “Let our customers know that in the past three months we have had a few issues, but they are being addressed,” he said. Misuse of  funds Furaha urged leaders from Bungoma and Trans Nzoia not to politicise the matter. He said they are detemined to live up to their mandate. Furaha said board suspended the MD Munialo indefinitely last month. He did not explain the suspension. On December 12, During Jamhuri Day celebrations at Webuye Stadium, Governor Wangamati said he has received information about misuse of funds at the water board.  