Dhiren Gondaria hit a half-century while Minkuj Pindoria (2/32) Narendra Kalyan (2/25) and Rajesh Bhudia (2/40) shared six wickets between them to steer Kanbis to a comfortable 52-run win over hosts Kongonis in the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association (NPCA) Twenty20 action at Nairobi Club yesterday morning. Opting to bat, the visitors posted 207 for six in their allotted 20 overs and then managed to restrict the home team to 155 for eight to book a place in the last four of this year’s campaign. Opener Gondaria gave Kenya a solid platform with a quick-fire 40-ball 73 that included seven hits over the boundary line and five fours. Kanbis skipper Bhudia (55) and Ankit Hirani (25) also chipped in with useful runs as the visitors attacked the home side bowling with ease. Kanbis lost Kalyan on 19 early on in the inning with the opening batsman having faced only six balls. Gondaria then received a second wicket stand of 38 from Hiraj Parmar (14) that got them past the 50 run mark in just seven overs. The dismissal of Parrmar to Stephen Muli then opened up way for a third wicket stand of 112 between the skipper and Gondaria which got the match completely away from Kongonis who are languishing at the bottom. The two batsmen reached the boundaries with ease in their stand. By the time Bhudia was falling to Michael Davies, all the damage had been done and Hirani came in to finish up the remaining over where he added on 25 from 17 balls. Chasing a modest target, Kongonis looked like in they were up in the race when their openers Davies and Chris Childs were in the middle. But as soon as Kalyan broke the opening satand by dismissing Childs, Kongonis kept losing wickets at regular intervals with Pindoria, Kalyan and Bhudia wreaking havoc, running through the Ngong Road based side’ middle order. Davies was the top scorer with 62 from 30 balls and Chris Childs added on 37 from 25 balls as the other batsmen lost their wickets easily. Davies managed five sixes and four boundaries in his knowck while Childs found the boundary five times. But after Kalyan broke the stand, Kanbis bowlers were able to get through the hosts batting line up to register an easy win. Dola Aballa was the only other Kongonis batsman to get into double digits with 17 from 10 balls.