JamboPay has threatened to terminate its contract with City Hall citing political intimidation and failure by the county to honour terms of the deal. This came just a day after reports emerged that a section of MCAs were pushing for the termination of the contract between the county and the firm. They accused the electronic revenue collection firm of allegedly making City Hall incur huge revenue losses through laxity. JamboPay CEO Danson Muchemi on Monday wrote to Governor Mike Sonko calling for an end to intimidation by a section of political actors and unwarranted attacks on the company. Muchemi also raised issues with the county for delayed payment of service fees for the firm and repeated failure by the county to honour terms of their contract. "JamboPay is committed to supporting your agenda to transform Nairobi county through the provision of an efficient electronic payment service e-jijiPAY." "We are, however, facing serious challenges that the letter serves to bring to your attention," the letter reads in part. "This is to request your speedy intervention to protect the city's revenue collection failure to which may have a negative impact on the revenue performance," Muchemi said. Recently, former Finance CEC Vesca Kengogo told a committee of the county assembly that the county was losing millions of shillings daily as a result of frequent system breakdown. She disclosed that on average, City Hall losses Sh18 million per day due to slow internet-based systems. "We have been forced to buy new gadgets and introduce MPesa paybill number for residents to use when the systems are down," she said. But Muchemi rubbished the claim and instead accused frequent power outages and disconnection of City Hall internet for the problem. He said the company has integrated it's systems with those of the county making its operations grounded any time there is an internet downtime at City Hall. Also read: We'd have lost millions if we ended JamboPay deal – Sonko More on this: Sonko defends JamboPay system, sets Sh1.7 billion revenue target Click here for the latest political news   