When I was younger, I loved listening to Kenyan music and was greatly fascinated by the entertainment industry. Although it was just starting out, it was clear Kenyan artists had some potential, and the industry had the capacity to become a major component of our socioeconomic culture. After college, I worked at Kenya Airways as a pilot for a couple of years. During that period, my friends and I started an entertainment company called Blackstar Entertainment, which aimed at being part of the expanding film and music scene. I believed in the company’s vision so much that I quit Kenya Airways to focus full time on building Blackstar. Back then, I saw the potential of the youth and directly witnessed how someone’s talent can change their destiny. I saw how passionately pioneers such as Nameless and the late E-Sir relied on DJs such as DJ Adrian and DJ Pinye to get their releases across to music lovers. It was a clear symbiotic relationship that ensured musicians got the audience and DJs got quality music to revellers. It, therefore, saddens me to learn there are some people who have been arresting DJs in clubs on weekends, carting away their equipment and locking them up in police cells. These officers, some of whom claim to be from Nema, are making these arrests on the premise of complaints of loud music. It is important to note that Nema has denied reports its officers are involved in this unfortunate crackdown. Fingers are now being pointed at officials of the Nairobi government, who are said to be asking for bribes after the arrests. Reports indicate these officers go into clubs without noise measuring gadgets, which should be mandatory for such operations. Such abrupt actions violate the Environmental Management and Coordination (Noise and Excessive Vibration Pollution) (Control) Regulations. Section 6 of the regulations requires the relevant authority to take action only after a “reasonable notice” on excess noise has been issued and violated by whomever has been warned. The question in everyone’s mind is: “Why arrest hardworking DJs if a club is playing loud music?” In actual sense, the DJ has been contracted by the club and, therefore, the arresting authority should be targeting the club’s owners or management using proper channels and not picking on DJs hustling to make a living. To avoid escalating this issue, there is an urgent need for the ministries of Interior and Environment, the county governments, as well as Nema to engage club owners and DJs. The Ministry of Environment (through Nema) is supposed to come up with the noise pollution policies, while the county governments (which are mandated by law to implement the regulations) rely on police to enforce the law. We must all agree noise pollution should not be allowed, especially around residential areas, where families, some with small children, are disturbed by loud music. However, we must go for the right culprits and not harass young and hardworking DJs. If left unchecked, this uncontrolled crackdown can become a major problem, pitting the youth against the government. Most DJs are aged between 25 and 40. They have just started building their lives and are seeking opportunities and a fair environment to carry out their trade. The law and the institutions we have put in place as a country should protect these young people as they go about their business. Our young people, including DJs, want opportunities to make their lives better and should, therefore, be provided with the environment to do so. We have a responsibility as a country to do this for the sake of their future. The writer is a political and communications consultant