The Deputy President has warned school heads against schemes to charge parents school fees paid by the government. The government is aware that some schools and their boards had resorted to asking for fictitious payment yet the government catered for tuition. "We are warning such school heads that we will soon catch up with them and they will face the music," he said at Milo Boys' Secondary School in Webuye West, Bungoma County, on Saturday. Ruto reiterated Jubilee Party's vision for no learner to drop out for lack of fees. "Those engaging in such [the schemes] are enemies of development." The DP refuted claims that most public schools will not receive books for the government programme. He said the books will be handed to them alongside full tuition. Ruto asked MPs to ensure use of the CDF kitty to put up infrastructure in schools "so the education sector gets a proper face lift". The DP also announced that the government had waived the Sh38 billion debt owed by Nzoia Sugar Company to ensure its self-sustainability. "We have waived all the debts owned by Nzoia Sugar to enable it run properly and pay its farmers in time." He asked the Bungoma government to initiate talks with the national government so it can acquire its shares. "We are ready to surrender our shares to the county so that Nzoia is fully owned by the locals." Noting the political season ended, he urged resident to continue supporting Jubilee as they will not regret it. "We in jubilee are gentlemen. We mean what we promise. That's why despite the few votes you gave us, we have reciprocated by appointing your sons [Kenneth] Lusaka and [Wanyama] Musiambo, and are here building schools." Lusaka was not re-elected to his Bungoma Governor office but was rewarded with the Senate Speaker job for campaigning for the ruling coalition. Musiambo previously served as Rift Valley Regional Coordinator as is now the deputy Head of Public Service. The DP gave 2 million shillings for the construction of the Milo secondary Click here for the latest political news 