Isibania FC and debutants Kisumu All Stars are targeting promotion to the Kenya Premier League when the National Super League kicks off tomorrow. Isibania FC hosts former KPL side Nakuru All Stars while All Stars make their NSL bow against St Joseph’s Youth at Moi Stadium tomorrow. Last season, Vihiga United and Wazito were promoted from the NSL to the top tier. Isibania will play their home matches at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo until the Football Kenya Federation inspects and approves their Customs Arena home ground in Isibania. “We want to pick maximum points at home. In the first leg, we are targeting a top six finish and then in the second leg, we will push for automatic qualification. Every team in the league is aiming to qualify to the top tier league,” said Isibania coach Dan Musta. Musta has bolstered the team by signing 13 players and retained 17 who helped the team finish 13th on the log in their debut season last year. Ten players dropped and two joined Premier League clubs. Clinton Omondi signed for Sony, Collins Saka joined Kakamega Homeboyz while Brandon Oxlade joined NSL side Bidco United. Isibania’s new signings include Joseph Kafunzo (goalkeeper); Joseph Onyango and Thomas Omondi (left backs); Kevin Juma (center back); John Owino, Issa Seif (midfielders); Victor Nyang’acha, Lucas Weitere (left wingers), Oliver Tambo, Shadrack Kawa, Sylvanus Peter (attacking midfielders), Patrick Mvita and Richard Siagobino (strikers). The club has also promoted Syvanus Peter from their under-20 team, according Musta. Kisumu All Stars will officially be launched today at Simba Club in Kisumu ahead of their league debut. The Kisumu County Government side replaced disbanded Palos FC in the league. Coach Nick Aketch is in a bullish mood. “Our target is to qualify to the Kenya Premier League next season. Nothing less,” said the former Kisumu Posta striker. In other matches scheduled for tomorrow, Kangemi All Stars face a baptism of fire against Bidco United at Hope Center while Kibera Black Stars will play GFE 105 at the same venue. Kenya Police welcome Talanta at Karuturi ground in Naivasha as Ushuru battles Administration Police at Camp Toyoyo, seeking to return to the top flight league after missing out narrowly last season. On Sunday, Nairobi City Stars entertain Nairobi Stima in the first double header at Camp Toyoyo. In the second match, KCB battle relegated Muhoroni Youth. Western Stima start life in the NSL with a fixture against Modern Coast Rangers at Moi Stadium in Kisumu while Green Commandos make their NSL debut on Monday against Coast Stima at Bukhungu Stadium in Kakamega.