Donkey owners and cart pushers in Lamu town have criticised the growing number of boda boda operators frustrating their business. Residents of the Lamu Old Town have for decades depended on donkeys for transport and movement of people and goods. The town has been listed by Unesco as a world heritage site. Efforts to conserve and preserve Old Town is threatened by westernisation. Initially, vehicles were banned from the town by the county government as a means to conserve the heritage. Only donkeys and carts were allowed to operate. A few vehicles and motorbikes belonging to specific institutions were the only ones allowed in the town. Since August last year, the number of motorcycles and vehicles operating in the island has gone up, leading to a thriving boda boda business. Donkeys and cart pushers are facing competion from the boda bodas which offer faster and cheaper transport to tourists and residents. The donkey owners and cart pushers have been out of business ever since boda boda operators flocked to the town. Lamu town has more than 100 motorcycles and vehicles. The county government seems to ignore the Unesco guideline that automobiles be kept off heritage sites. The aggrieved parties say customers prefer the boda bodas for transport and movement of goods. “It’s unfair because we are the only means of transport that should be allowed at this heritage site,” said trader Said Maarufu. The donkey and cart owners want the county government to form legislations that will ensure boda boda operators in the town only operate from select areas. Lamu residents have appealed to the county government to reinforce the ban on automobiles. They say it is not worth it to sacrifice culture and heritage for money. Bingwa Ahmed said the town’s streets are too narrow and the automobiles are a disaster. The increased motorcycles are also causing too much traffic in the already crowded town. “This is a town our forefathers made efforts to conserve and we should do the same. No amount of money should make us turn our backs on our culture.Automobiles have never and should never be allowed here,” Ahmed said. “It’s just a matter of time before Unesco delists Lamu town if something isn’t done to change this situation.” He cautioned that the narrow streets are not conducive for automobiles and that accident may happen. A week ago, Lamu residents praised the boda boda business, saying it has reduced crime in the town. The majority of the youth who were idle bought boda bodas for transporting goods and people, especially tourists. Without the jobs, the youth would frequent drug and alcohol dens.