The 28-year-old Kenyan medic who was murdered in Germany three weeks ago was on Saturday buried in her rural home in Naivasha. Mary Waithera was found lying lifeless in her shop in Essen town and was confirmed dead at a nearby hospital. German police have released the photo of a Tanzanian said to be the main suspect. Read; Body of woman slain in Germany flown home During the burial in Kinamba village, family and leaders challenged Germany not to relent in their efforts to trace the suspect. Leaders led by Nakuru Senator Susan Kihaki led the calls terming the death as painful for the family and the country. “We are demanding from the Germany government to arrest the suspect who murdered our daughter and we shall follow this issue to the end,” she said. Tears flowed freely during the burial. Kihika expressed her concern over the number of Kenyans losing their lives abroad adding that the ministry of foreign affairs should take action. The Senator noted that Kenya embassies in various countries should put in place measures to protect Kenyans working or studying abroad. On her part, Naivasha MP Jane Kihara said that they would be writing a protest letter to Germany over the murder that is yet to be resolved. Related; Kenyan stabbed to death in Germany, mum wants justice She termed as very painful the death of a child who had gone to the foreign country to seek greener pastures only for the body to be flown back in a box. “This death is very painful as Waithera who was the sole breadwinner for the family had gone to seek greener pastures only to be murdered,” she said. Others speakers eulogised the deceased as a hard working Kenyan who apart from studying had opened a shop dealing with Kenyan products. Viwandani MCA Eric Gichuki said that it was worrying times that young people who had gone to seek better lives were been killed every month and the suspects never arrested. “We shall stand with the family at these hard times when they are burying their young daughter who went to seek new ventures only to be brutally murdered,” he said. Also read; Body of woman slain in Germany flown home  Click here for the latest political news