Embu residents have criticised Governor Martin Wambora for sponsoring MCAs to fly to Arusha, Tanzania for a bonding retreat. They said it is ironic for the governor to offer Sh12 million to be guzzled by the 33 MCAs in a foreign land yet the county is grappling with serious issues affecting them. The lot termed the trip a waste of taxpayers' money while roads and other needs that require funds are yet to be attended to. Reports are that governor Wambora sponsored the trip amid efforts to create a synergy between the legislative and executive arms of the county government. Each of the MCAs will reportedly get a per diem allowances of Sh280,000, sums which they demanded to be paid in cash before the Wednesday last week's trip. The county assembly resumed its sittings last week after a two-month recess. After Wambora offered the trip, the MCAs moved a motion to adjourn the Houses sittings until February 27. Majority Leader Michael Njeru said they need the time off to clear pending committee businesses and compile various reports. He never talked about the retreat. Sources said speaker Josiah Thiriku, assembly clerk Jim Kauma and director of committee services David Githaga have approved the eight-day all-expenses-paid trip. Minority Leader Lenny Mwaniki, his Ruguru ward counterpart Moris Muturi, and Muminji's Newton Kariuki defended the retreat saying it is crucial for the county's operations. The MCAs further denied receiving the Sh280,000 cash for their subsistence allowances. On the choice of Tanzania, the ward reps argue that they had to go to the country's institute as it is East Africa's best in training on leadership. "It’s important for the executive and the assembly to meet together in such a training to avoid wrangles like the ones witnessed in the last term of the government," Muturi said via telephone. Governor Wambora, speaker Thiriku, and clerk Kauma could not be reached by phone and did not respond to a text message on the matter. Related: Embu Assembly officials 'got double allowances' for Arusha trip Click here for the latest political news