For all their illustrious history and pedigree in the domestic and regional fronts, Gor Mahia will be judged — some say harshly — for their inadequacies in the continent’s premier club football competition, the CAF Champions League. While their peers — Esperanza, Zamalek et al — have made the tournament their bread and butter, Gor — Kenya’s representatives in the competition have been mere participants featuring in the initial rounds before predictably falling by the way side. Today, Dylan kerr and his record 16-times Kenyan champions have an opportunity to show they have come of age when they host Leones Vegetarianos of Equatorial Guinea in Machakos in the preliminary round of the lucrative tournament. Kerr has maintained that his team is ready for the Guineans and their two victories so far over arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the Super Cup and Nakumatt in the national league attest to that. “We prepared well during the preseason and all the players are in good shape. We are positive and the focus is on how well we can play,” he said. Striker Medie kagere has continued from where he left last season as he bagged a hat-trcik in the 4-0 demolition of Nakumatt last weekend and he will be the man looked upon for goals against Leones. It will be important that not only Gor score at home but also ensure they take a clean sheet to Malabo. Key to that will be defender Haron Shakava who has taken over the leadership reigns in the squad but has also now been charged to lend his experience to the defence lineup following the departure of his long-serving partner Musa Mohammed. So far, the lanky defender has acquainted himself well to his new role and Kerr will expect him to grow into that position as the season progresses. Ernest Wendo will likely take up the defensive midfield duties in what will be his first ever start in the competition. Goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch will also be lending his experience to the team as he features in the tournament yet again, having been in goal in 2016 when they were eliminated by unheralded Madgascar side CNAPS.