Nairobi Police commander Japheth Koome has been named the Principal assistant to Deputy Inspector General of the Kenya Police service in a major reshuffle. His position has been taken by Joseph Ole Tito who was commandant Anti Stock Theft Unit. The new changes were announced by IG Joseph Boinnet in a statement on Thursday. Kingori Mwangi is the new commandant in Kiganjo. Joseph Kodi who was the General Staff Officer is now the new Anti Stock Theft Unit commandant. Julius Kitili is the new Regional commander in Western. He was formerly the Director reforms. Boniface Maingi has been moved from Director personnel to KPS headquarters. Noah Mwivanda, director community policing, children and gender has been moved to Coast regional Commander. He takes over from Larry Kieng. Read: Police chiefs moved in latest reshuffle ahead of polls 'OCPD Reshuffles' In the changes, Pokot OCPD John Ngari has been moved to be the new OCPD in Chepalungu. Buna OCPD Maurice Gunda will move to Kwanza to replace Wilfred Mogere who has been transferred to Buna in Wajir county. Marakwet West OCPD Apollo Wanyonyi has been moved to Sameta, Kisii county. He takes over from Ibrahim Jirma who has been moved to Marakwet West. Baringo central OCPD Eliud Njeru has been moved to Kitui west. Njeru will replace Shadrack Juma who has been moved to Baringo central. Habasweni OCPD Caleb Wesa has been moved to Marami in Kisii. Wesa will replace Benjami Kimwele who has been moved to Habasweni,Wajir. 'Promotions' Deputy OCPD Dagoretti Eliakim Silgich has been promoted to Mandera West as the new OCPD. Bunyala deputy OCPD Robert Kispsuru has also been moved to Nyamira as the OCPD while Kilimani deputy OCPD Fanuel Ombayo is the new Nyando OCPD. Ombayo replaces Mohammed Amin who has been promoted to the regional headquarters in Nairobi. Presidential escort Rahab Siamanda has been moved to police AIDs Control unit. In January, President Uhuru Kenyatta made sweeping changes in the hierarchy of the National Police Service only retaining Boinnet at the top. Uhuru sacked Deputy IGs in charge of Administration Police and the Kenya Police services, Samuel Arachi and Joel Kitili respectively. Long serving Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Ndegwa Muhoro was also fired in the changes unveiled in a televised address from State House. More on this: Uhuru overlooks senior cops, appoints their juniors as deputy IGs  Click here for the latest political news 