A Trans Nzoia family needs Sh3.4 million to treat their daughter who was thrown out of a moving matatu by three suspected thugs. Before the incident, Immaculate Khaemba was a third-year student of Karatina University. She was pursuing a Bachelor of Nutritional Health and Dietetics degree and was on attachment at Mbagathi hospital in Nairobi. Immaculate's life took a horrible turn on the morning of July 6, 2017 when she boarded a matatu to the hospital. Before reaching her destination, three men inside the vehicle snatched her phone and then pushed her out when she tried to repulse them. An oncoming matatu, registration KBX 706F, hit her. Immaculate was rescued by boda boda riders who took her home. Her uncle then took her to Kikuyu hospital but there were challenges as nurses were on strike. “They stayed at the hospital from 9 pm to midnight without receiving any help, and it was then that the uncle noticed Immaculate's condition was worsening. When she spoke you couldn’t get the words ... they noticed she was losing her speech,” her father Emmanuel Khaemba said on Monday.  Immaculate Khaemba (R) with her father Emmanuel and her mother Catherine at their home in Kiminini sub-county,Trans Nzoia, February 12, 2018. /CORAZON WAFULA The 22-year-old was transferred to a private facility which required the family to deposit Sh300,000 before admission. Unable to raise the amount, Immaculate's relatives took her to Nairobi Women\s Hospital where she was admitted after paying a deposit of Sh20,000. The first examination indicated she had bled in the lungs and suffered a broken hip. Immaculate's condition worsened and she ended up in a coma for four months. She regained consciousness in December but suffered memory loss - she did not remember anybody, not even her  mother Catherine Khaemba who had camped by her bed. By this time, the bill stood at Sh5 million, prompting the girl's doctor to advise her family to take her home and ensure she underwent physiotherapy. Immaculate, the second of three children, was discharged after a family friend gave his title deed. “We fund-raised twice, with the help of our church and friends, and got Sh600,000 for the hospital bill. I also sold a piece of my land,” said Khaemba. The girl undergoes daily theotherapy sessions in Kitale town, which is 7 km away from Kiminini where the family stays. It is expensive as hiring a taxi costs Sh800. Khaemba, who burns bricks for a living, says his life has become difficult. “My first born finished high school but she was not very bright and my last born has joined form one. Immaculate was very sharp in class ... I had high hopes that she would graduate this year and secure a good job to help the family." Amid tears, Catherine adds: "Immaculate cannot sit up ... she must be supported. We feed, clean and take her to the washroom because she can't stretch her hands and legs." The family said the hospital gave given them a grace period of six months, which ends in June, to clear the bill. They have unsuccessfully tried to reach the county and Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa for assistance and have also asked well-wishers to help them. Immaculate's father dded that they tracked down the matatu that his their daughter and reported the matter at Pangani police station. They were told the case will be activated when Immaculate’s memory and speech are fully restored. Click here for the latest political news