The High Court yesterday suspended the decision by the State to revoke the passports of seven NASA leaders. This came after the NASA leaders, including strategist David Ndii and UoN lecturer Adams Oloo, yesterday moved to court to challenge the State’s move. Others were Senator James Orengo, businessman Jimi Wanjigi, Paul Mwangi, Dagoretti MP Simba Arati and Henry Mien. They sued Immigration director Gordon Kihalangwa and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Justice John Mativo issued conservatory orders restraining the State from interfering with the leaders’ travelling documents and movements in and out of the country, pending conclusion of the case. In the case filed at the Milimani law courts, the NASA leaders sought a mandatory order compelling the State to also reinstate Mien’s confiscated passport. They also wanted the court to restrain the State or its agents from implementing, and, in any way, effecting its decision to suspend the petitioners’ passports or from interfering with “our rights to movement in and out of the country”. They said the decision to suspend their passports was unconstitutional, unreasonable, grossly heavyhanded and unjustified in an open democratic society. The leaders said their constitutional freedom of movements had been unreasonably and arbitrarily restricted. Their rights and freedoms, including association, expression and equal protection under the law and the right to a passport, had been grossly infringed and threatened without lawful justification, they said. The genesis of the violations and threats was the remarks attributed to Matiang’i at a press conference held on February 1, they added. “It’s not coincidental that barely four days after Matiangi’s press conference, the Director of Immigration issued letters suspending the passports,” the petition read. The petitioners argued that the State, despite knowing the decision would be adverse to “our rights and fundamental freedom”, deliberately failed and neglected to give them prior and adequate notice of the nature and reasons for the proposed decision and an opportunity to be heard to make representation. They said the decision to suspend their passports was communicated via a letter dated February 5.