Kericho is known for its cool weather often accompanied by light showers but at the Green Stadium yesterday it rained goals as Gor Mahia drubbed hosts Zoo Kericho 4-2. The league table will make for ominous reading for would be Kenyan Premier League challengers as it will show champions Gor comfortably perched at the top of the standings with six points from their two matches with eight goals scored. Yesterday, Jacques Tuyisenge, Boniface Omondi, Joakim Oluoch and Samuel Onyango rendered strikes by Johnson Ligare and Nicholas Kipkirui for Zoo mere consolations. Coach Sammy Okoth made several changes to the team that he sent out in the 4-2 defeat to Ulinzi Stars in their league opener but the telepathic triumvirate of reigning KPL footballer of the year Mike Madoya, striker Kipkirui and Bernard Odhiambo were deemed indispensable for the visit of the champions. Gor too made half a dozen changes with Cercidy Okeyo, Omondi, Philemon Otieno and Bernard Ondiek being given the opportunity to impress. As expected, the champions took the game to Zoo with Oluoch going close with a couple of headers inside the opening 10 minutes. The period of incessant pressure should have been rewarded with a goal after Tuyisenge easily rode the challenge of Gideon Kibet before picking out Medie Kagere who just failed to make contact with the ball with the goal at his mercy. Slowly, Zoo started to get a foothold in the game and should have taken the lead midway through the half. A swift counter left Danson Namasaka and Madoya with goalkeeper Shaban Odhonji. The later attempted a lob that trickled wide off the Gor post much to the chagrin of his teammate. Soon after Zoo custodian Michael Elungat was called into action, smothering Ondiek’s firm shot. The deadlock was finally broken 10 minutes to the break when Omondi sprung the Zoo trap and set up Tuyisenge for a simple tap-in. The goal scorer then limped off injured after a collision with Elungat as George Odhiambo replaced him. After the break, Gor doubled their lead with a carbon copy of the first with Kagere picking out Omondi to score in spite of an attempted clearance by Denis Otieno. Zoo, however, halved the deficit with captain Ligare heading in Isaac Kipyegon’s pinpoint free kick in the 55th minute. That goal prompted a double change by the hosts with Namasaka and Odhiambo being replaced by Kepha Ondati. It was Gor, however, who got the next goal with the impressive Oluoch poking in the third goal 20 minutes from time after substitute Samuel Onyango’s effort cannoned off the crossbar. Onyango then put the result beyond doubt as he reacted quickest to bury the rebound after Elungat had saved Kagere’s effort. They had barely celebrated when Kipkirui shot evaded Odhonji and nestled in the net.