Gatanga MP Joseph Nduati has asked the government to supply residents with water from Ndakaini dam before it is channelled to Nairobi. Nduati asked Athi Water Services Board to honour a directive issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta to first ensure locals are connected. The President pledged to ensure water harnessed through the Northern Collector tunnel is supplied to Gatanga residents before it is directed to Nairobi. Read: Give locals Ndakaini water before supply to Nairobi, politician asks state The MP, however, said the board has disregarded the directive and failed to extend connection pipes in the area. "We will oppose it until we see our homes being connected with water. It is unfair that our people continue to suffer from lack of domestic water while it is taken to Nairobi," Nduati said. Nduati said the contractor working on the tunnel has already completed the construction of a treatment plant and that pipes are being installed to have the water directed to Nairobi. The 11.8 kilometres long tunnel whose construction started in 2015 has continued to evoke strong emotions amongst locals who believe the government is forcefully taking their water while leaving them to suffer in acute water shortage. The Sh6.4 billion tunnel is meant to collect flood water from rivers Irati, Mathioya and Githigie though locals have expressed fears that it may cause the rivers to dry up in a few years. The MP pointed out that his constituents require connection to affordable water as a host to the biggest dam in the country. "We don't understand why we do not have water in our homes and where it is available, it is more expensive than in other counties yet we have so many rivers and a major dam," he said. He supported governor Mwangi wa Iria's bid to have water tariffs lowered in the county saying it will help locals to access the commodity. Wa Iria on his part said he wants the county to get 25 per cent of all proceeds realised from water drawn from the county saying the water resource is as precious to Murang'a as oil is to Turkana county. "There is a bill in the Senate seeking to ensure 25 percent of benefits realised from natural resources are retained within the local communities and we are working towards ensuring Murang'a gets these benefits from its water," he said.  Click here for the latest political news