Did Raila Odinga’s NASA coalition make a U-turn on their firm stand on snubbing parliamentary committee sittings to vet President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominees for Principal Secretaries and envoys? Corridors spotted several NASA MPs taking to task some of the nominees on whether they were qualified for the positions. Or were the MPs lured by the sitting allowances? All signs of defiance appeared to vanish, given the prospect of the cash.  ***** Still in Parliament, there are rumours spreading between Jubilee and NASA MPs who have served more than two terms. The MPs, who claim to be staunch supporters of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga were overheard burning with fury, claiming that they were neglected when powerful parliamentary positions were being shared. The lawmakers lament that their respective coalitions opted to reward new entrants to the 12th Parliament. “We will just accept the way things are run by our coalitions, but we are unhappy,” one fumed. ***** Are there plans to have former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero try his hand in his home county following the High Court decision on Tuesday that nullified the election of Governor Cyprian Awiti? Corridors is told of plans by a section of Homa Bay elders to have the former governor contest in case of a by-election. Already, there is a delegation from Homa Bay to Nairobi to convince him to buy the idea. ***** A Jubilee MP is rumoured to be leading a well-organised campaign to ensure that the preferred lineup for the Parliamentary Service Commission is dethroned. Corridors hear the lawmaker is conducting intensive lobbying to ensure that Beth Mugo (nominated) and Adan Keynan (Eldas) are not reelected to the Commission. During the State House PG meeting, the MPs are said to have been reluctant to endorse the names presented to them by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto.  ***** Two media managers are embroiled in a vicious tussle to succeed their former boss, who was recently nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta for the position of Cabinet Secretary. Corridors have learned that the situation has escalated between the two bosses, threatening the working relationship in the office. A mole whispers to Corridors that the duo no longer sees eye-to-eye. The mole revealed that there was a mix-up in programming after the two bosses gave their juniors conflicting directives. A source has confirmed to Corridors that the two, who have been buddies for a long time, almost engaged in a fistfight last week after one temporarily occupied the office of the former top boss recently sworn in as CS. 