Word has it that a section of Nairobi MPs is angry with the manner in which Governor Mike Sonko is running the city county government. The lawmakers were heard lamenting about Sonko allegedly meddling in their constituency development activities by initiating parallel projects to outshine theirs. They accuse the governor of not consulting them and making unilateral decisions they claim have hampered development in most constituencies. Those who retained their seats even said that it was easier working with former Governor Evans Kidero than Sonko. They allege that some Jubilee honchos are also unhappy with him.  ***** Still at City Hall, officials from the parking department have heightened their crackdown on motorists who do not pay parking fees. It is no secret, but Nairobians are wondering how the officials have opted to turn a blind eye on cars parked at a bus stop right outside the ICEA Building along Kenyatta Avenue. Could some people have turned the stage into a cash cow? On Monday, officials were seen chit-chatting near the bus stop, which had up to four cars parked on it. The question is: If there is any collection on the four slots, how do the parking attendants account for that, considering that in the records at City Hall the area is marked as a bus stop? ***** Corridors is informed that the National Environment Tribunal is under fire from several lawyers who accuse its members of delaying urgent hearings and taking unnecessarily long breaks. Some lawyers last week appeared before the tribunal, only to be kept waiting for over an hour because some of the members were “freshening up”. Our mole says the lawyers have also raised concern over the number of times matters have been adjourned due to quorum hitches. Corridors has learned that protests against the tribunal have been fired up by the fact that several developments are stuck because Kenyan laws demand that all construction work should be halted once an objection is filed before the Tribunal. The lawyers want Chief Justice David Maraga to intervene. ***** So, what is the endgame of the current arrests of politicians allied to NASA in connection to Tuesday's swearing-in of Raila Odinga? Well, according to some Jubilee strategists, the shock-and-awe tactic is meant to create apprehension and pandemonium in the opposition outfit. After yesterday’s dramatic arrest of “General” Miguna Miguna, one Jubilee insider opined: “We are going to arrest every leader who was with Raila at the swearing-in. Joho and all of them. We will arrest them, but we won’t take them to trial. We just want to make their lives difficult.”