Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has criticised the national government for excessive borrowing. The governor said the debt accumulated by the Jubilee administration will crumble the country’s economy if not managed. “Jubilee will leave us with a huge debt to be paid by our children for years,” Oparanya said on Sunday. The former Planning minister cautioned Jubilee on the possibility of a much poorer nation due to huge debt and poor planning. “The huge debt should be regulated,” the governor said. He said hunger in the country is an indication the money borrowed is not reaching the citizens. “The government should have plans to work with the available resources and avoid excessive borrowing,” the governor said. Oparanya questioned why the money from the national government is yet to be released to the county accounts. “For four months the county governments haven’t received a single penny, making it hard to operate.” The Sh203 billion Eurobond II was secured by the government last week. “We should live within our reach and stop unnecessary borrowing. It’s the same way people live within the salary they earn,” the governor said in Butere at the homecoming of Marama South MCA Willis Opuka. Oparanya’s comments comes amidst uproar from economists and politicians on the Eurobond. Deputy President William Ruto has defended it, and other external borrowing, saying the cash will be spent on development, not scandals. On Saturday, Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli criticised Jubilee for what he termed too much borrowing. “The debt will leave us paying for it for a long time after Jubilee has left office,” Atwoli said in Khwisero. President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto’s tenure so far has been plagued with corruption scandals that have alarmed the public. Leaders often promise to deal ruthlessly with the vice but big-fish convictions remain a dream. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the issue was oversubscribed seven times. This means Kenya only wanted Sh203 billion but attracted Sh1.4 trillion. Rotich said the funds will be for the government’s development initiatives and liability management. Eurobond matters often revive the corruption conversation in Kenya, following controversies regarding one of Sh250 billion. In May 2016, then-DPP Keriako Tobiko said there was no evidence to support the alleged theft of this cash. Read:Kenya secures Sh203 billion in new Eurobond Also Read:Kenya doesn't borrow carelessly, no scandals in Sh203 billion Eurobond, says Ruto