The High Court in Kisii yesterday dismissed an election petition filed by two voters against Senator Sam Ongeri. Ongeri defeated former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara with a margin of 64, 687 votes. He scored 183, 375 votes against Magara’s 118, 688. Charles Orito and George Ogake alleged that the August poll was marred with irregularities and that the IEBC did not use a credible voters register in conducting the exercise. They also claimed that votes cast in 184 polling stations differed from the registered number of voters and that errors in transposition of votes from statutory forms affected the outcome. Delivering her Judgment, Justice Winfridah Okwany said the petitioners failed to proof their case beyond reasonable doubt. Okwany said human errors by election officials did not materially affect the final outcome. “An election petition is a serious matter compared to other cases so it was upon the petitioners to produce substantive evidence against the respondents,” she added. On claims that their discrepancies in votes in the six elections, the Judge said the petitioners relied on data from friends and failed to proof that they were data analysts. “Those who gave them the data did not come to court to testify about the same,” The Judge further said. The Judge at the same time noted that votes cast did not did not exceed registered voters as alleged by the petitioners, saying votes were not manipulated in favour of Ongeri. The Judge also overruled allegations by the petitioners that Ongeri engaged one Natal Obwocha, a county employee, as an agent during the polls adding they had an obligation to adduce evidence regarding the allegation. She at the same time dismissed petitioners allegations that statutory forms had not security features saying that they not seek for the court to order scrutiny to establish the same. Lawyers Okong’o Omogeni represented Ongeri, Omwanza Ombati represented the petitioners and Charles Rigoro represented county RO Sidney Namulungu and the IEBC. The ordered Ongeri to pay Sh5 million and Namulungu and the IEBC to pay Sh3 million.              