The vicious cycle of crippling strikes and persistent pay disputes will send a wrong message to investors, Labour and Social Protection CS Ukur Yatani said yesterday. “We are competing for investments within the region and beyond. So if we are blacklisted as a country whose labour is not predictable, the investors are going to take their capital elsewhere,” he said. On Saturday, the Kenya Universities Staff Union issued a seven-day strike notice just three days after the Universities Academic Staff Union issued theirs. Kusu is accusing the government of deliberately refusing to table a counter proposal on the 2017-21 collective bargaining agreement. Yatani said there is need to strike a balance between employment and better pay. “I appeal to those who have given intention to strike to suspend and engage. Let us discuss and see what we can provide,” he said at his NSSF office. sweeping changes Yatani yesterday took over from former CS Phyllis Kandie, who now heads to Belgium as ambassador. Yatani said high salaries are a good motivator but they must be backed by a solid economy “We have 46 per cent of the population who live below the poverty line and 19 per cent who live in abject poverty,” he said. Yatani said the ministry must strike a balance between being a catalyst for economic transformation and having a productive and motivated workforce “Trade unions, there is so much we can do together, we are all stakeholders in the welfare of workers,” he said. Yatani plans to introduce sweeping changes to the National Social Security Fund and change outdated laws. Old people, he said, will have their Sh2,000 monthly stipend transmitted electronically as some travel 400km to collect the cash. Kandie said labour data is up to date. “When I came into the ministry, that sector was a free for all, we had briefcase agents who were sending Kenyans abroad. We have done a lot in trying to register those agents, regulate the sector,” she said. A committee comprising foreign affairs and interior officials is in place to oversee the interests of Kenyans workers abroad. Already, there are labour attachés in South Arabia and Qatar.