AIPCEA archbishop Julius Njoroge has started a reconciliation process to bring together all the four warring factions in the church. Njoroge has said he has reached out to leaders of the other factions in an attempt to bring to an end the wrangles that have almost brought the church to its knees. The archbishop said the reconciliation process was initiated by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who directed the leadership of the church to resolve their differences and unite its congregation. He said he is set to meet with bishops Fredrick Wang'ombe and Samson Muthur, who lead two of the factions that rival him. The meeting, he said, is set to be held on Saturday and will kick start the reconciliation as the three leaders give their input. The third faction was led by the late bishop John Mugecha, who died early last year and is called the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Kenya (AIPCK). “The President has emphasized the need for leaders to come together to find ways of reconciling all groups and establish one centre of power in the church,” Njoroge said. The archbishop said he is personally ready to work with the other archbishops, who have been appointed by the other factions and put aside their differences. He however noted that the dialogue will be confined to the constitution of the church that will help them to come up with a frame work that will tally with their laws. He expressed confidence that the church will achieve unity through the reconciliation process which he said may take a while. Njoroge further pointed out that the process will be led by a panel of mediators who will help resolve the issues facing each faction. “My message to the other leaders is to urge them to fully participate in the reconciliation process that may take some time,” he added. He also appealed to the congregation to have patience as they work out the leadership wrangles and to pray that the process is concluded amicably, expressing confidence that the church will soon be able to speak with one voice. Njoroge was speaking during a Bishops’ meeting in Murang’a on Friday where 32 bishops were trained on conflict resolution to help them participate in the process of unifying the church. Wrangles in the church started after the retirement of former arch bishop Amos Kahuthu last year in January following a court order issued by the high court. The church conducted elections on January 9 where Njoroge was elected in a process that a section of the congregation complained was marred with irregularities. Shortly afterwards, one faction also elected Wang’ombe as their Archbishop which marked the beginning of the long standing power struggle.   