The government has promised farmers subsidised fertilizer at Sh1,500 a bag. Last season the same 50kg bag was sold to farmers by the National Cereals and Produce Board at Sh1,800. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri told the Star in a telephone interview consignments have been dispatched to centres in maize growing zones countrywide because the planting season starts mid next month. But farmers dreams of even lower prices for the plant food suitable for local soils might take a bit longer as three plants set up in Mombasa, nakuru and Eldoret are yet to start production. A newly-built Eldoret plant blends imported fertiliser to suit local soil and crop needs, denying its operators cost savings that would substantially lower costs. The plant owned by Japanese conglomerate Toyota Tsusho is in the second phase of construction and should cost Sh123 billion when complete. It is scheduled to start production in 2020. Export Trading Group (ETG) has put up a blending plant in Mombasa that churns crop-specific, soil-specific variety. ETG country boss Lewis Giles said the firm uses cutting edge technology in the industry and can produce planting and top dressing fertilizer. “The prime idea behind this technology is to feed our soils with the nutrients that they require. We have been carrying out soil analysis and tests for different regions in preparation for this year’s high season and soil analysis and tests for different regions are already in progress. As such, all farmers would now be able to access the high quality blended fertilisers,” Giles said. Although farming accounts for a quarter of Kenya’s annual economic output, the high cost of fertiliser means farmers rely on subsidies or resort to unscientific alternatives. Globally, across all crops, farmers apply 135 kilogrammes of fertilisers per hectare, while in sub-Saharan Africa the figure is about 17 kilogrammes. Although the continent has nearly 20m per cent of the world's arable land, FAO data show it consumes less than 2 per cent of nitrogen, phosphate and potash compared to Asia's 40 per cent Kenya Open Data puts fertilizer consumption in Kenya at between 33 to 45 kilogrammes per hectare or an average of 15.6 kilogrammes per acre, way below the recommended 22 kilos of nitrogen per acre It is perhaps on this basis that experts are urging farmers to use the right type in their fields to raise production. With the right kind of fertilisers for different types of crops applied during planting and top-dressing seasons, experts say Kenya may never experience food shortages in the near future. “The global discourse is not only on whether farmers use fertilisers or not; it is also on the quality, quantity and the timing of the application of fertilisers. This calls for policies and programmes that would realise the potential benefits of fertilisers in Kenyan agriculture,” Giles said. Mustan Taibali, ETG's head of fertiliser, said the blended fertiliser increases yields by more than 30 per cent. “Ultimately, this is a technology that would address the perpetual food crisis in Kenya, besides empowering millions of our farmers economically," Taibali said, adding that the plant would not only serve Kenya but also Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Kenya has been encouraging local production and blending of fertilisers to help cut import costs and reduce subsidies needed to make fertilisers affordable for peasant farmers. The government spends up to Sh3 billion annually to provide farmers with low cost imported fertiliser.  