Jubilee Party yesterday gave the clearest indication yet it could be keen on fixing the Judiciary, after it wrote a lengthy letter to CJ David Maraga, accusing the courts of bias. The 1,733-word letter JP secretary general Raphael Tuju came just a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta made three curious nominations to the Judicial Service Commission. In what appears to be a scheme to build a case against the Judiciary, Tuju cited several occasions in which the Judiciary has ruled in favour of NASA. Read: Uhuru vows to 'fix' court as win quashed “We were in the middle of an election cycle and we decided to let things cool down and grant the Judiciary space, despite several cases, which we perceived as open bias against Jubilee in the run-up to the election of August 8, 2017,” Tuju said. Uhuru on Tuesday dropped Attorney General Githu Muigai for Appeal Court Judge Kihara Kariuki who will be a member of the Judicial Service Commission. He also dropped the Solicitor General and accounting officer at the AG’s office, Njee Muturi, to for his lawyer Kennedy Ogeto. Read: Is Uhuru targetting Supreme Court? A Jubilee insider told the Star, “The President said he shall revisit the Judiciary. He is in power.” Tuju told Maraga, “That respect is an imperative and not a matter of choice. It is the responsibility of all of us to build rather than to undermine and destroy our institutions, many of which are confronting transitional challenges. “Independence can’t exclude another definition of relations that’s referred to as interdependence. “Irresponsible actions from the Judiciary, the Executive or Parliament can burn this country. With due respect, you almost succeeded in burning it after August 8, Election.” Tuju said it was the apex court’s responsibility to force NASA to take part in the October 26 repeat election. NASA boycotted the rerun, saying it would not be free and fair. Meanwhile, sources say Nasa’s 27-member strong legal advisory team meets today to assess “Jubilee’s advances” on the Judiciary.  Click here for the latest political news