Turkana leaders are confident Parliament will amend the Revised Petroleum Bill to give host communities 10 per cent of total revenue allocation, up from the proposed five per cent. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, Turkana South MP James Lomenen said the 10 per cent allocation to community will improve the socioeconomic status of host communities and improve the country’s image to international investors. “The revised Bill is currently at the committee level. We are yet to conduct public participation. We still have room to amend the revenue allocation structure. I hope Kenyans will support the 10 per cent allocation to community. The Bill will affect all Kenyans, not just Turkanas,”he said. Lomenen sits in the parliamentary committee on Energy. amend He said he is not interested in what will be allocated to county and national governments, as long as the 10 per cent for the community is intact. Yesterday, Turkana residents held protests against the proposed Bill that has slashed revenue allocation to the community to five per cent; 15 per cent to the county and 80 per cent to the national government. They appealed to Parliament to amend the bill before it goes to the third stage in order to ensure host communities benefit from the natural resource. In 2013, demonstrators backed by local politicians, marched to drilling sites demanding jobs and other benefits, forcing Tullow to halt work for two weeks. This is not the first time the Petroleum Bill is brewing controversy. In June last year, the government was forced to suspend the much-awaited export of oil from Turkana due to banditry attacks that arose from revenue allocation disputes. Parliament passed a draft bill in 2016 allocating 20 per cent of any state oil revenue to local government and 10 per cent to communities living where the crude was discovered, leaving 70 per cent for the central government. However, President Uhuru Kenyatta did not sign the bill and instead asked Parliament to review county and community allocations downwards, a move that was contested by Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok who wanted at least 30 per cent to go to county governments. The current squabble is likely to further lengthen the country’s hopes of exporting its first barrel of crude oil.