Kakamega MCAs plan to improve the dairy sector and ensure farmers get better returns. The county had already launched the Sh1 million One Cow One Family Initiative in 2015. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said this was to help farmers improve their livestock and increase milk production. In June 2015, the county called for credible firms to supply in-calf heifers for the initiative. In line with the initiative, the Kakamega County Dairy Development Corporation Bill seeks to establish a legal backing for the dairy value chain. This will make room for the milk processing plant in Malava subcounty. The proposed law will establish a corporation to coordinate sector activities. The public will give their views on the proposed law today in Khwisero subcounty. The corporation will replace the Kakamega Dairy Development Company Limited — earlier formed by the county government to develop the milk processing plant. The plant will be established in partnership with the private sector. The county will own public shares, but will later sell them to farmers. Under the One Cow Initiative, the county has bought and distributed dairy cows to select farmers throughout the county. dwindling Sugarcane farming Kakamega currently faces an acute milk shortage. It relies on supplies from the neighbouring Nandi county. The county seeks to use the sector promote economic development by diversifying livelihoods. This will end overreliance on the collapsing sugarcane sector. The diary corporation will also purchase, acquire and hold interests on behalf of the county government. It will borrow, invest and create ready market for milk, promote research, and implement and manage the One Cow Initiative. Article 6 of the proposed law will establish a board of management comprising a non-executive chairperson appointed by the governor, chief officers in charge of livestock and finance, the county attorney, four members of the public, and a CEO, who will be an ex-officio member. business parks Also prepared is the Kakamega County Trade and Markets Bill that seeks to promote and regulate trade, provide a framework for the county government to enter into joint trade ventures with other partners, and promote economic development. Section 8-1 establishes a business park in every subcounty to fast-track development. The parks include business incubation areas, special economic zones, which may target general business processes, and special service zones.