It’s only 41 days of 365 days en
already, 2018 feels like 300 days old! With all the surprise en shocks
happening daily in the 254… #TheRaverend is afraid of even taking a nap because
shit is on steroids in 2018, I’m telling you! Let me break it down for you. We
have two presidents: one who commands the armed forces en holds all instruments
of power, en another who is the self-proclaimed people president with zero
instruments, but can mobilise a crowd any time of day! The latter’s general, Double
M, was recently taken on a forced tour of my beautiful country, then prematurely
deported before he could even spell his second name, which is the same as his
first name! One minute Double M was tembeaing
Kenya with police escort, next he was seated in the economy class of KLM,
headed back to Toronto bila notice… If you snooze in the 254, you will lose or
find yourself in another planet! That’s the Bar-Litical situation in Kenya… The GOK is not playing or smiling
with anyone, they switched off all free TV stations with one universal remote… But
as the Bar-Litical situation is getting hotter by the minute, life continues.
Betty Kyalo has confirmed what my mother always warned me about… ”Never do
Biashara with friends or family.” Friends and family are only good to drink but
not to invest with! Risper Faith of Nairobi D got
married for real, not a storyline. A legit marriage with cake and family. Kweli
February is the month of love… So if you’re planning to fall in love, you have 18
more days to go! Talking about love, I have a list of people whom I have no
love for, and I was wondering what it would take for the GOK to deport them. Number one on #TheRaverend’s
deportation list are Makangas who lie to schoolgirls with free rides, get them
pregnant, then bail on the poor girl, leaving the parents raising a bastard!
Second on the list is police officers who play hide en seek with motorists on Nairobi
roads… These cops are not even traffic cops. They hide in bushes and corners
and harass unsuspecting motorists! Third is the guys who go out
without a coin or a ride, invite their broke ass to your table, drink your free
booze, then start hitting on your date when they get drunk, forgetting they’re
broke! Fourth is slay queens who take SnapChat video or pose with drinks and
people’s property without permission… B***h, you can’t take a picture with my
car, post it up like we are boys, claiming the club is lit en all you have on
your table is a bottle of Gurana! You need to be sent to Siberia… En finally, the peeps who need to
be banished en not even deported are the guys who gift themselves, aka steal sh*t
that don’t belong to them in the club… That home boy/girl who pretends to be
part of your skwaaad but they’re on a mission to steal your sh*t when you’re
partying… This bunch of misfits not only
steals phone, they take anything valuable they come across and can seriously
inconvenience your ass. They can turn your hangover into permanent depression
or even a coma if they decide to slip a drug aka Mchele into your drink… They are
ruthless. They can pretend to be with you, carry you home in your passed-out
state, then drive you to your home and ransack your apartment, leaving you high
en dry, literally! In other news, this weekend, I’m
headed to Rwanda for Bongo star AY’s wedding. It’s time The Raverend found
himself a foreign import, so I call on all my Fisi skwaaad wanikaziye rasa en
wish me all the best, I might come back with Kagame’s daughter!