Kenya’s most decorated golfer Jacob Okello is hoping to start the new year in spirited fashion as he returns to the Barclays Kenya Open Championship for the umpteenth time. Okello, who was the top amateur at the Kenya Open in 1996 and runners up in 1998 after losing on play-off, believes Kenya might celebrate the 50th anniversary with a Kenyan winner. The Kenya Open, a round of the European Challenge Tour, has remained elusive for locals with Okello the only golfer to come closer when he tied with the eventual winner, only to lose on play off. Okello has been managing pros at Golf Park since 2003 having turned pro in 1996. The Golf Park resident professional reckons that Kenyans are equally good but only lack the mental strength. “We will be fresh from a the ongoing back-to-back PGK qualifiers and so the issue of being rusty does not arise. We hit the ball well but lack mental strength. “I’m glad Kenya Open Golf Limited has boosted us with some monetary assistance to bring in a South African trainer who will be working with the pros. “We need the assistance of the corporate world in supporting local professional players to enable them play better. I believe we will win the Kenya Open one day,” he said. Okello is set to make his appearance at Muthaiga for the umpteenth time, having finished runner up in 1998. The veteran golfer had words of encouragement for Mutahi Kibugu who is the junior Kenyan amateur seeking to make his debut in the tournament. Mutahi’s compatriot Daniel Nduva, who has been playing awesome golf is also another young player in the event. South Africa-based Nduva, who is a member of Nyali, was the new Kenya Open Amateur champion. The off scratch Nduva, a student at South Africa’s School of Golf Excellence, shot one under par 70 in the closing round of the 2017 championship at Nyali Golf for an all rounds total of three over par 287 to beat Tanzania’s Victor Joseph by four shots. Joseph will be playing at the Kenya Open as an amateur representative from Tanzania. Last year, Nduva became the first Coast-based golfer to win the Kenyatta Memorial Bowl since the event started in 1978. Meanwhile, Dismas Indiza, one of the finest local pro at the moment, is optimistic ahead of the next month’s Kenya Open. “KOGL has always organised a lovely tournament here. “The golf course in Muthaiga is always in great shape. I think in the beginning part of the year, you kind of want to play in places where you know you’re going to have good weather, good course conditions and obviously against a strong field. “For me it’s a great place to start things off, to get the momentum going again, and we all know what’s ahead, lots of gigantic tournaments, and then also for me, a little bit different things this year with Karen Masters hosting a Sunshine Tour, as well. There are lots of things to look forward to this year.” “It’s been a bit of a passion of mine to explore and to see the Sunshine Tour grow, and the beauty about it is Karen Masters will be joining the Sunshine Tour and I’m excited to take advantage of playing these events.”