A
debut solo exhibition by artist Mercy Kagia at the Polka Dot Art Gallery
presents the dying art of reportage drawing. Her artistic storytelling with
limited colours and materials is compelling. Reportage drawing tends to
be overlooked by Kenyan artists. Kagia attributes this to the current demand
for conceptual artwork, and the emergence of digital technology that enables quick
manipulation of photos. “Drawing from life is not as ingrained in the art
education and is not a habit one finds among our artists like in the West and
Asia,” explains Kagia. She adds that observational drawing is time consuming
and demands consistency. “Many artists give up or don't have time for it.” The
illustrations, many drawn in pen and ink, demonstrate her talent and keen
observation of ordinary life. In Overlooking Lake
Naivasha, a pair of boda boda
riders are resting by the lake and under a line of electricity cables.  The yellow and red stripes of one man’s hat
are the only spot of colour in this ink and watercolour painting, and the motorbike
parts are captured in striking detail. Vehicles
are being washed in the foreground of Lake
Victoria Car Wash while a boat full of people sails behind them framed by
far a shoreline of trees and gently rolling hills. A woman is seated on a low
stool under a large sun umbrella in Selling
Njugu. Kagia always has a
sketchbook in her handbag because to excel she says, “You must have an interest
in what is going on around you. Be consistent and make observational drawing a
part of your life.” For
her PhD research at Kensington University London on the relevance of reportage
drawing in the era of film and photography, Kagia spent 6 months in Kisumu. She
discovered the city by sitting at the lakeside, hair salons and markets, observing
people like the fruit vendor in the drawing Orange
Seller. Besides
ink paintings, Kagia creates using other media but still expresses the events happening
around her. Still life watercolours of fruits and vegetables are inspired from
her kitchen ingredients. Zebras are the subject of black-and-white wildlife illustrations
where she has skilfully painted hazy black stripes on the zebra foals that
typically have fluffy fur. A dramatic sky hangs over
a man walking his camels at the seaside in high noon in Camels on Diani Beach. 
Others still life images show a vintage Volkswagen beetle and a retired
Peugeot 404 taxi with a yellow stripe across the body. Both pictures were sold
on opening night. But people remain her
central focus. Along one wall is a series of nude figures drawn in brown Conté crayons
and watercolours on paper. I particularly like Figure IV where the seated man is bent
over, his head resting on his forearm as if he is tired or worried. Kagia held figure drawing
classes at Polka Dot last year and has conducted educational sessions in Europe
since 2003. Previously she has exhibited in the UK, Germany and
the Kingdom of Bahrain.