ODM leader Raila Odinga does not owe anyone a "political debt" in the 2022 presidential race, Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has said. He said failure by NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula to attend Raila's January 30 oath freed the latter of any debt. Outa referred to the three as "the disciples who betrayed and denied Jesus at the time of his crucifixion." "The swearing event was not easy task as it required tough, dedicated and selfless leaders to attend," he said at Ahero, Nyando sub-county on Tuesday. Outa noted that ODM is focusing on rebranding itself, signalling that Raila is preparing to run for presidency. Read: Is Raila planning to leave Nasa ahead of 2022 election? Also read: Mudavadi remains Luhya kingpin, elders say According to the NASA agreement Raila’s ODM party is not supposed to field a presidential candidate. But if the anticipated split is anything to go by, ODM will have a leeway to field a presidential candidate in the 2022 race. Senator Outa urged party members to remain committed in making the party more vibrant through championing its ideologies. He noted that they will not relent on seeking for electoral justice in the country "no matter how many people Jubilee administration kills". "You will kill many of us but some will remain to realise our goal of having a free and fair election in Kenya," Outa said. "The journey to Canaan is tough but we are focused to relieve Kenyans from authoritarianism, oppression and corruption leadership." On ODM unity, Outa said members should shun unnecessary and petty wrangles to help consolidating their backyard support. "We should make good use of time, money and energy that we use in fighting one another to unite and empower our people," he added. The former Nyando MP said every elected leader in ODM zones needs to give more priority to party ideology and goals to win presidency. Outa further asked Parliament to swiftly look into continued killings of NASA supporters by police. "We want the rogue officers to be brought to book. Our supporters are Kenyans just like those of Jubilee. Justice must prevail," he said. Recently, three people were killed by police at Ahero town during a protest against the arrest of NASA politician and lawyer Miguna Miguna. Outa threatened to call for mass protest if the killers are not arrested and prosecuted. He wants the IPOA, independent human rights organisations and the international community to probe the police brutality in Kisumu. Click here for the latest political news 