The High Court ruled on Tuesday that President Uhuru Kenyatta cannot be sued as the Constitution grants him immunity in legal proceedings. Justice Chacha Mwita ordered the name of the President struck out forthwith from a suit filed by activist Okiya Omtatah regarding the office of the Chief Administrative Secretary. Omtatah sued Uhuru, the Public Service Commission, the AG and the Speaker of the National Assembly over the creation of the CAS post and subsequent and appointments. The activist had accused the President and the PSC of breaching the Constitution by creating the position without public participation. He faulted Uhuru for not considering implications on the wage bill and wanted the court to find him accountable for violating the Constitution. Read: Omtatah opposes Uhuru's Chief Administrative Secretary post in court Also read: AG wants Uhuru struck off suit on Chief Administrative Secretaries However, the Attorney General successfully applied to have Uhuru’s name struck out from the proceedings, leaving other respondents to defend the suit. A similar fate awaits another suit filed by the activist, challenging the nomination of lawyer Kennedy Ogeto to the post of Solicitor-General. More on appointments: [VIDEO] Uhuru nominates Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei to Judicial Service Commission The activist argues that Ogeto was handpicked by Uhuru without being subjected to a competitive process as required by law. National Assembly Speaker  Justice Muturi is opposed to the suit and wants it rejected in its entirety on grounds that the process of approving the nominees is underway. The Speaker says Parliament should be allowed to complete its work. The case will come up on April 4. It is not the first time the President’s name has been struck out of a case. In August 2013, his name was removed from a case against him and his mother Mama Ngina, by their relative, over allegations of land grabbing. Peter Ngengi, who claimed to be a brother of the late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, had accused Uhuru and his mother of wrongfully depriving him of his three and a half acre of land at Ichaweri village in Gatundu, Kiambu County. Click here for the latest political news