What is the essence of taking that oath? NASA leader Raila Odinga took an oath but it is all inconsequential and will be of no value for Kalonzo Musyoka either, the Opposition and even their supporters. Already people in NASA treat Kalonzo with suspicion - they see him as a traitor and it will take a very long time for many Kenyans, regardless of political affiliation, to trust him. Basically, Kalonzo is trying to be sworn in to re-invent himself after several events that have painted him as an untrustworthy person. The said oath-taking will not help matters for the former Vice President. When he refused to go take an oath with Raila, you saw the reactions from Opposition supporters, especially in his Ukambani region - they were not happy at all and they said that they would not support him. So whatever will be happening - I would say – would be secondary and reactionary to whatever he failed to do on January 30th. Therefore the said swearing-in will not add value to him politically but instead will even sink him completely: By the 2022 General Election, he will be irrelevant. Kalonzo should save himself from the embarrassment and ridicule Raila has had to go through since he took the purported oath, and respect the Constitution. He is a lawyer and an experienced man in matters of government and politics and he should know that his credibility, both locally and internationally, is at stake. Kalonzo sacrificed his Presidential ambition for the second time in the August 2017 election and because he seems to still have a chance of attempting a run in future- though with zero chances - it would be prudent for him to recognize President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto as the legally elected leaders of this country. Look, Raila took an oath, and it was unconstitutional and inconsequential. In fact, for those who are keen, they can tell you the country is now enjoying tranquillity more than before he took the oath. Before he took the oath as the purported “People’s President”, businesses, especially in Nairobi, were low and under-performing because of the uncertainties that prevailed. But the day came and it went and businesses are booming. So the Raila and Kalonzo oaths are unconstitutional and inconsequential. The writer is an East Africa Legislative Assembly MP  Click here for the latest political news