Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula skipped Raila Odinga’s swearing-in because he was strategising about his own 2022 stab at the presidency, MP Eseli Simiyu has said. The Bungoma senator was not interested in the ‘People’s Presidency’ and his absence was “a clever move and strategy”, he said. Simiyu, the Ford Kenya secretary general, defended his party leader’s no-show at the event in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, on Tuesday last week. “If you are storing seeds, you don’t do so in one place. If one spoils, you should remain with another for the planting season. The January 30 [swearing-in] was a spoilt seed,” he said. He said Wetang’ula’s was not to take any oath and his presence would add no value. The occasion was for Raila and NASA principal Kalonzo Musyoka — Wetang’ula had no role to play, Eseli said in Makunga village, Tongaren. He equated the event to a “boy going to face the circumciser’s knife — only the person to face the cut goes to the arena”. “If a boy is to face the knife, is he escorted by anybody?” Simiyu asked in Bukusu dialect. He was responding to Bukembe East MCA Jorum Wanjala, who had spoken before him and told him to tell residents “where and why Wetang’ula hid during the ceremony”. “As the secretary general of Ford Kenya, you should tell us where Wetang’ula was when the People’s President was taking the oath,” Wanjala had said. But Simiyu said Wetang’ula has trained his eyes on the 2022 election and seeks to ensure it will be free, fair and transparent. “You sent us to represent you. Don’t think we are fools. We’ll ensure we bring the required reforms in this country so we stop this issue of restricting the presidency to two ethnic groups,” he said. The Tongaren legislator urged the Luhya community to keep their ID cards in readiness for the 2022 battle. That’s the only way to change the current situation in Kenya, he said. “Keep your national cards safely as we fight to ensure we get this dictatorial regime out in 2022,” Simiyu said. His statements could, however, stir debate over NASA’s future, with new alliances expected to start taking shape ahead of 2022. Political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche yesterday told the Star that Simiyu’s sentiments indicate his party has lost hope in Raila’s quest to be President. “When a person of Eseli’s stature speaks, it tells you the position of Ford Kenya and its leader,” he said. At a joint press conference on Thursday, Wetang’ula, Kalonzo, Raila and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi dismissed claims of rifts among them. They said the claims were a creation of the media.