The judiciary should punish disobedience of court orders by State officers, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has told Chief Justice David Maraga. Last week, the State disobeyed five orders from the High Court in Nairobi to release lawyer Miguna Miguna from custody and take him to court, eventually deporting him instead. Speaking in Kakamega town on Monday, Oparanya said respect for the rule of law is critical for the advancement of democracy. He spoke during the laying of a foundation stone for the new High Court building in Kakamega town by the CJ. Oparanya sought the CJ’s advice on a court Kakamega set up to enforce county laws. It remains in limbo for lack of a policy framework from the Judicial Service Commission. The framework would outline how the county and the Judiciary would share the revenue raised through fines and other charges. “We were promised that through your office, we shall be advised on how to handle the court,” Oparanya said. Maraga did not respond to the matter. Oparanya praised the JSC for assigning a magistrate to deal with county matters. The other issue was lack of space to house the court. Oparanya said construction of the county court stalled because the contractor who was awarded the tender lacked capacity. Oparanya asked the Judiciary to revive legal clinics to enlighten Kenyans about legal requirements for various matters. He said his government is ready to fund the clinics. Presiding Kakamega judge Ruth Sitati said the Kakamega law courts are seriously understaffed. She said the station has five magistrates instead of 12. “Some were transferred without being replaced. Others have been suspended and have not come back. So the available few are overworked,” she said. Sitati said the single Land and Environment judge in Kakamega cannot handled the high number of cases. She said 90 per cent of civil cases filed in the station are land-related. The High Court in Kakamega oversees Kakamega and Vihiga counties. Maraga said the JSC does not have enough Land and Environment judges to post in every county. He said the JSC will identify chief and principal magistrates who will handle the land cases in the counties without Land and Environment judges until they are posted.