Elgeyo Marakwet farmers on the West Pokot border are selling their valuable merino sheep for as little as Sh1,000 for fear of bandit raids. On Friday, rustlers stole more than 3,000 merino sheep. The farmers keep the prized sheep and dairy cows in the cool highlands. They are fleeing to warmer lowlands and the sheep can’t withstand the heat, hence, they must sell. “Merino sheep can’t survive in warm areas. The only option is to sell,” Tenderwa location chief Abraham Chelanga said yesterday. Bandits have been calling residents and warning that they will carry out raids to avenge attacks in which 250 houses were torched by herders. Farmers are selling for less than market value to beat the planned raids. They are trooping to the markets in Uasin Gishu county. Top grade wool can sell for Sh300 or more a kilogramme. A large ram can produce 18kg. More than four lorries ferrying merinos from the troubled region were brought to Eldoret yesterday. Farmer Paul Kiptuka said they decided to sell their sheep after reports that bandits were planning another raid. “Farmers no longer see the need to have many sheep when bandits can raid and make off with thousands of livestock,” he said. “We no longer feel safe. Hundreds of people want to dispose of their animals so they can move to safer areas.” Farmer Benjamin Kibor, who lost 300 sheep in the Friday raid, has moved to Kapyego trading centre. He was shot in the thigh during the raid and will no longer keep livestock. “A bullet went through my thigh. I’ve moved with a few belongings. I have no grazing field here to continue keeping livestock,” he said. Elgeyo Marakwet Agriculture executive Shadrack Yatich said it is difficult for the county to regulate prices. The free market allows willing sellers to trade with willing buyers without regulations, he said. Yatich said some farmers sell sheep because they lack pasture after fleeing their homes. “We urge farmers not to panic. There are efforts to restore peace. Marakwet and Pokot elders will meet from Tuesday [today] to resolve the problem,” he said.