Cases of chikungunya have drastically reduced in the past few weeks, Mombasa Health executive Hazel Koitaba has said. The viral disease, which is
predominantly transmitted by a female mosquito, is believed to have attacked
thousands of Mombasa residents since December last year. However, a report by the
Health ministry and the Mombasa government shows that as of January
31, out of the 453 cases reported, only 32 turned out to be positive. Speaking during a press
conference at Governor Hassan Joho’s office on Friday, Koitaba said the viral disease
has been contained and there is no reason for alarm. “Chikungunya is no longer an epidemic in Mombasa,” she said. Koitaba said the county government
has put in place measures to curb the spread of the disease. Last month, Joho’s administration bought five fogging machines from
Malasyia, at a cost of Sh5million. They were used to spray residential areas to kill
mosquitoes. Koitaba said the spraying has helped contain the spread of chikungunya, which was fast-spreading in all the six subcounties of Mombasa. In Mvita 140 cases were
reported, Changamwe 65, Jomvu 43, Likoni 104, Kisauni 63 and Nyali 20. After the outbreak of the viral disease,
Joho was under pressure to clear garbage that has been an eyesore in the county. The piles of garbage were believed to have contributed to the spread of chikungunya. There was a notion among
the residents that chikungunya was as a result of poor sanitation and garbage
pile-up, until doctors confirmed it was spread by female mosquitoes. “The county government has
continued to enhance the vector control, through spraying in residential areas. The exercise will continue until
such a time that the cases will go down to zero,” Koitaba said yesterday. She said they have also deployed Community Health Volunteers at the grassroots to enlighten residents about chikungunya. The mosquito that spreads chikungunya likes fresh water. It was reported that the fresh water tanks
and jerrycans at home are the breeding grounds for these mosquitoes, she said.     