The dramatic arrest last weekend of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter made big news. It seemed as if it were a continuation of the high profile arrests of Opposition politicians, only this time it was one of their own — a Jubilee MP. It was probably a matter of time before such a thing happened to Keter, given his penchant for rocking the Jubilee boat from within. And so we were not quite surprised that he was arrested. However, unlike the Opposition arrests, we did not see a battery of lawyers, legislators, activists, anarchists and even nihilists rush to his side to get him free. We didn’t see demonstrations demanding his release and riot police doing their thing. In fact, Senator James Orengo, when contacted to secure Keter’s release, specifically declined, instead pointing Keter to Jubilee lawyer-legislators Kipchumba Murkomen and Kithure Kindiki (obviously out of spite). Right from the August 8 election petition at the Supreme Court, NASA was able to raise a great team of legal minds led by lawyer-legislators Orengo, Otiende Amollo, Peter Kaluma and others. They jammed the Supreme Court and secured the victory for Raila Odinga, and went to the lower courts to secure the freedoms of those of their own who had been detained or harassed by the government. But they would not touch Keter.  POLITICISING THE LAW But why would someone deny another (fellow legislator) legal representation because they belong to a different political persuasion? Granted, any lawyer has the right to represent or refuse to represent a client, the manner in which Senior Counsel Orengo declined to represent Keter is now a part of a trend, allowing partisan politics to affect the practice of the law. Orengo probably feared offending his own ‘higher-up’, Raila Odinga, by appearing for a Jubilee person just in the same way no Jubilee lawyer-legislator was willing to rush to the side of Keter, fearing offending their own ‘higher-ups’. Orengo, Murkomen and even Kindiki clearly derive their political relevance from their association with their respective political principals. This relationship appears to be so important that they would rather limit their action if it would jeopardise such a relationship. As such, human rights cease to be blind. Already, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has got himself into deep trouble for securing the release of Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, who, like Keter, got conveniently locked up on a weekend so that they could be taken to court after at least three nights in custody. Sakaja did the honourable thing securing the freedom of a fellow legislator, despite coming from the other side of the political divide. He even gave a personal guarantee that he would ensure Owino would appear in court the following day. He suffered so much flak for it and, this time round, he did not go to help Keter. The only politicians who went to Keter’s rescue were Joshua Kutuny, Silas Tiren and Gideon Moi, all of whom have an axe to grind with Jubilee for one reason or another. Keter took advocate Kimutai Bosek to represent him. The Deputy President and the President said nothing. And you know what silence means in politics. POLITICISING LEGAL INSTITUTIONS It was only recently that Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju wrote a letter to Chief Justice David Maraga, claiming the Judiciary had been captured by NASA. He cited several incidences where rulings appeared to disfavour Jubilee, and said NASA was (equally) guilty of disobeying court orders. This was yet another example of the politicisation of the law. While some have said Tuju spoke for a ‘higher up’, others, like me, are wondering whether that letter was part of a promise by the President to ‘revisit’ the Supreme Court, whose judgment nullified the August 8 presidential election. It is clear, indeed, that we have ushered in the age of politicisation of the courts. There have been calls for Maraga to resign, and the recent reconstitution of the Judicial Service Commission could be a part of the scheme to remove him. Sure, we have politicised the Bench just as we have politicised the Bar. And this can be quite dangerous. The Maldives, which, like Kenya, is one of only four countries that have seen a presidential election nullified, is now deep in crisis following the order by the President to the police not to obey the orders of the Supreme Court to release certain political prisoners. Earlier this month, the President ordered the arrest of two Supreme Court judges, including the Chief Justice, ushering in a national crisis that may get worse. The politicisation of (legal) institutions can has devastating effects.  ORDERS FROM ABOVE It is clear there was more than meets the eye in the detention of Keter. He was detained ostensibly because he had gone to find out what had happened to certain Treasury bills purchased by Desai Industries, who are said to have purchased them a while back. Ordinarily, this should have been a no-brainer for the Central Bank, and they should have supplied the information without the intervention of the MP. If the T-bills were purchased, then their redemption ought to be kept in some file at the CBK. But there seems to be an inexplicable mist around the whole matter. The CBK declared the T-bill papers held by the MP (presumably from the Desais) to be fake and so, as Keter went to the Governor’s office to get to the bottom of it, he was arrested, handcuffed and sent to the coolers for the weekend.  RENT A POLITICIAN What surprised everyone was why the Desais did not go to court to take their grievance with the Central Bank to the judges but instead opted to get an MP to chase the thing for them. They probably reasoned that a politician would get things done faster than a judge. In many ways, Keter fitted the adage that you can’t buy a politician, but you can rent one (although there are those that can still be bought outright). Keter seemed to have been a hired gun that apparently failed to fire: Backfiring instead, or, better still, misfiring. It was not surprising Keter was chosen for hire. He was doing a similar thing when he was caught on camera harassing police officers at the Gilgil Weighbridge in January 2015. He had gone to force the release of a truck belonging to fellow legislator Sunjeev Birdi. The truck got stuck at the weighbridge, prompting Birdi to seek the services of the MP, who used vituperative language to have his way with the police.  JUBILEE’S ENFANT TERRIBLE Keter is unquestionably a thorn in the flesh for Jubilee. He has been at odds with the ruling party following his equally dramatic ouster from heading a House Committee he had been elected to, despite party reservations. He was quick to castigate Jubilee over his removal and (rightly) harangued the Executive over interference with the independence of the Legislature. But while he gave the President a lecture on the idea of the separation of powers, he too was not keeping to his lane but choosing to use his influence as an MP to push commercial interests. He was hiding behind his being a legislator to do it in what amounts to influence peddling and abuse of office. But he has argued it is his role as an MP to oversight any institution. I scarcely think there was any oversight involved here. Simply put, Keter has been living in a glass house, and has been throwing stones. TUMBOCRATIC MPS Many politicians are available for hire, and if the money is right, they will beat a path to your door and solve whatever issue you have, or pretend to do so. I have bumped into several in the waiting rooms of corporate executives, sitting patiently, waiting for their turn in what can only be a brown envelope to get some action on a matter or to slow down on something. Many Bills have been passed (or defeated) by first getting the MPs to be agreeable. In a way, it is still the politicisation, or, better still, commercialisation of the law. This practice is not new to Kenya nor is it unique. It happens all over the world, even in America and the UK. There is the issue of ‘cash for questions’, and lobbyists reaching out to legislators for whatever direction they want their matter to go. And even the Executive itself has often been accused of influencing the MPs if there is a matter in the House whose direction they want to change. In short, our politicians tend to have a ‘tumbocratic’ gene. This is true for both sides of the political divide.  LAW AS A TOOL OF POLITICAL CONTROL But throughout our history, there are hundreds of situations when the politicisation of the law took place. In the colonial period, the courts were considered an important part of the establishment and, in fact, the District Officer (a part of the Executive) had magisterial powers and could send you to jail if you broke any of the laws enacted by the Legislative Council (which was composed of a majority ‘Official’ members – appointed by the Executive). It was (therefore) very difficult for any African to win in court. Besides, the judges were openly biased towards the establishment. They did the whim of the ‘higher up’. The trend continued after Independence. Once, in September 1969, Tinderet MP Jean-Marie Seroney was arraigned in a Nakuru court over what became known as the ‘Nandi Hills Declaration’. He was brought before resident magistrate Ram Parkash Maini, with lawyer John Sibi-Okumu acting for him and his co-accused, Joseph Mitei. Maini denied them bail and so Sibi-Okumu rushed to the High Court in Nakuru and placed the prayer for bail before Justice Alfred H Simpson. The Daily Nation reported the following day that Simpson had telephoned Attorney General Charles Njonjo and consulted him. Njonjo (who was not very fond of Seroney) is said to have pushed Simpson not to set him free until after October 1, a good 10 days away. Simpson did just that, and it appears the move was designed to ensure Seroney lost his parliamentary seat, having been away from the House for eight consecutive days. An embarrassing leak to the Press caused an agitated Simpson and the administrative secretary at the High Court, a Mr Watts, had to issue a vehement denial. But the cat was out of the bag. It was obvious the Bench and the Executive were in bed. Njonjo himself got a taste of his own medicine when , 14 years later, President Daniel Moi hauled him before a judicial commission of inquiry led by the agreeable (to Moi) Justice Cecil Miller. Njonjo had been labelled ‘traitor’ and ran out of Parliament and Cabinet. What goes around comes around. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto have suffered politically motivated charges at the International Criminal Court. Now, both are in government and how soon they forget. We can only humbly remind them that what goes around, comes around.