In 2005, after being married for four years, Jane Njoki, now 38, realised she had difficulties conceiving. She and her husband decided to seek medical attention, and it was confirmed that she had blocked Fallopian tubes. Doctors at the Nairobi Women's Hospital advised her to undergo tuboplasty, a minor surgical procedure to unblock the tubes, which would have cost them Sh100,000. “At that time we felt like that amount was too high, and we decided to seek other hospitals that would offer the same at a lower price,” Jane said. With the help of her sister, Jane ended up at the Nakuru Provincial Hospital, which was charging Sh20,000. Jane walked into the hospital in 2009, and was admitted for the procedure, a decision she regrets to date. After the surgery, she developed severe stomach pains. After three days, Jane was discharged from the hospital with assurance that the pains were as a result of the surgery and would fade away with time. This, however, did not happen. “The outer wound healed within a week but the internal pains got worse each passing day,” she said. She went back to the Nakuru Provincial Hospital, where she was treated and given painkillers before deciding to seek another opinion. About three weeks after the surgery, Jane went back to Nairobi, where they lived at the time. She went to the Avenue Hospital, where an ultrasound was done. “The gynaecologist said something could be seen but he could not figure out what it was,” she said. She was booked for an emergency operation, which confirmed the worst. An abdominal surgical pack was in the right paracolic gutter (space between the colon and the abdominal wall). This began the now eight years of hospital visits and countless surgeries.  MEDICAL NIGHTMARE According to the doctor’s report at Avenue Hospital, puss oozed from inside the abdomen and abdominal walls. Her tubes were inflated and attached to the ovaries, and there were holes on the small intestines. According to the report, the doctors drained the puss, removed the abdominal pack, released the swelling of the abdomen and washed with saline and rifocin. Five days after the surgery, there were no bowel sounds and the abdomen was tender, which the doctors said was an impression of what they called anastomotic leakage. The surgeon suggested urgent re-exploration and Jane was taken to theatre the third time in one month. The leaking intestines were cut and the remaining rearranged. She would then start leaking green fluid and had to go under the cut a fourth time. “By this time, the doctors had told my husband and my sister that the cause of all my troubles was the surgical pack they had removed,” she said. When she stabilised, she was shown the pack and part of her intestines in a container. “Would you imagine seeing your intestines in a container? It was painful,” she said. By the time she was being discharged, the bill had shot to Sh1.6 million and her weight reduced from 57kgs to 30kgs. At home, the wound got infected and failed to heal. Due to frustrations, the sickly thin girl became violent and the family thought she was having a mental illness. Her sister Alice Wanjiku, who was her caregiver, says the wound one day opened up after she was hit by a chair as she reached to beat her. “Her intestines were literally outside as we took her to Mariakani Cottage Hospital, where she was admitted. The family then decided to take her to the Kenyatta National Hospital, where during treatment, she was assessed by a psychiatrist who ruled out mental illness. “We thought she was becoming crazy but the doctors said it was the effect of drugs she had been taking,” said Wanjiku. Her immunity was very low and the smallest of infections would take her down. KNH stabilised her and the wound began to heal. LOST HER JOB By this time, Jane had lost her job and they could not sustain living in Nairobi. “I moved to Nakuru with my husband and he started a small business. My sister joined as a caregiver since I was still weak,” she said. Every time she got sick, Jane travelled to Nyahururu since she could not go to Nakuru Provincial. At Nyahururu, they discovered adhesion on her intestines, which caused intestinal obstruction and too much pain. The waste (liquids) on her intestines were being held on one side of her stomach, which had to be sucked out using a needle and a syringe. “It was such a painful experience since it was done without anaesthesia. They just plucked my stomach until they could trace where the waters were being held, something I had to endure every three months,” she said. Doctors at Nyahururu later said the issue could be permanently solved surgically, and she was scheduled for yet another operation. But even after the surgery, the waste continued to settle on the right side of her stomach. “My stomach is usually not balanced, the right side is bigger,” she said. Last year, November the pains became even worse and she went back to KNH, where she got an intestine expert. “After examining me, he said my stomach was messed up and I should avoid any further operations.” She was put on medication with the hope of making things better but they never did. During the second visit, the same doctor said they had to take the risk and do a surgery since her intestines were “fully blocked”. She went under the knife yet again. "I am still in the healing process, which I hope will soon come to an end,” she said.  QUEST FOR JUSTICE In 2010, the family made an official complaint to the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board, which after investigations, gave them the go-ahead to file a case against the hospital and the doctors. At some point during the proceedings, the accused requested to have the matter settled outside the court, but Jane did not take the offer. “They offered to pay me Sh1.8 million and I withdraw the case, but I refused through my lawyers,” she said. The case went to full hearing in a Nakuru court until last year, when it was thrown out for lack of evidence. “I felt justice was not served since I have gone through irreparable damage and I advised my lawyers to file an appeal in April, but they are yet to do it,” she complained. In her judgement, judge J.N Mulwa noted that in her evidence Jane testified that when she was operated on at Avenue Hospital, she was shown “something” and told it was in her stomach and that she was not certain it was left in her stomach. “She had differing opinions as to whether it was left in her stomach. She did not explain who or in whose presence she was shown the ‘something’, and when it was shown to her. When questioned why after the operation at Avenue Hospital she never went back to the same facility, she could not give a satisfactory answer, yet after days she went for admission at Mariakani Cottage Hospital,” the judgement read in part. The judged said she had agonised with the case but from the evidence, she wrote, nothing came out clearly as to whether the defendant doctors and staff were negligent by failing to exercise the duty of care they owned to the plaintiff. The judge continued to note that even though a complaint was lodged with the MPDB, who are mandated to investigate complaints of professional negligence against its members, no report was filed. “In its totality, the evidence as presented to me by all the parties, both the plaintiff and the defendant, does not persuade me to find that the defendant doctors and employees were negligent, and in the particulars of negligence attributed to it in the plaint,” she concluded. Jane regrets having done the operation in the first place, since she was healthy but the love and the desire to have children was strong. “Now I don’t have a child and the hopes of getting one fades by the day, since my stomach is too weak to carry a pregnancy. I am poor since I had to stop working and I am permanently sick,” she said as she wept.She continued to say that despite not having children, she cannot live without a house help, since she cannot do even house chores. “This far it’s only the supportive family that has kept me sane,” she said, adding that her husband and her in-laws have always been on her side. She is hopeful that one day all her troubles will fade away and she will have children of her own.