Jubilee has accused certain judges of bias for allegedly shielding Nasa politicians involved in "contravening the constitution". The claims came hours after Judge Luka Kimaru granted 12 Nasa politicians anticipatory bail for their involvement in Raila Odinga’s swearing in on January 30. "It is unfortunate and appalling that criminals can run to court and be hidden by a biased judge behind the same constitution and laws they are in trouble for subverting in the first place," the party said via twitter on Tuesday. "It is undeniable that certain judges with long known bias are working extra hard to aid individuals hell-bent to destabilize the country. #WakoraNetwork." On Tuesday, several Nasa legislators and strategist David Ndii were granted Sh100,000 anticipatory bail after they expressed fear that the government may be planning to arrest them for attending Raila’s oath. Judge Kimaru ordered the applicants to appear before the DCI on Thursday to record statements. They include James Orengo, George Aladwa, Simba Arati, George Khaniri, Jimmy Wanjingi and Norman Magaya. Others are David Ndii, Gladys Wanga, Babu Owino, Cleophas Malala and Hassan Joho. Read: Court blocks arrest of MPs linked to Raila oath On Tuesday, the police however said the leaders who sought
anticipatory bail do not need to report to the DCI since the police had
no reason to arrest them. "The national police service wishes to
state that neither Hassan Joho, Jimmy Wanjigi, David Ndii nor the 9
others who have sought anticipatory bail are being sought as for now in
connection of commission of any crimes. "Those individuals should therefore not bother turning up at the DCI offices," the police tweeted. More on this: We're not looking for Joho, Wanjigi and NASA MPs linked to Raila oath - police This is not the first time the Jubilee administration is accusing judges of siding with the opposition. Soon after the Supreme Court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s win on September 1, 2017, the president referred to the presiding judges as wakora (crooks) who he said conspired with the opposition to steal his victory. The government has said Raila’s oath amounted to treason and several opposition politicians have already been arrested and taken to court for attending the ceremony. They include Makadara MP George Aladwa, Simba Arati (Dagoretti North) and self-proclaimed NRM General Miguna Miguna. Miguna was charged on Tuesday at a Kajiado court for attending unlawful meeting and for being a member of an organized criminal gang. It is believed that the government is closing in on several other Nasa MPs who attended the meeting. On Tuesday, the Immigration Department indefinitely suspended Ndii’s passport. Read: David Ndii's passport suspended amid Raila oath crackdown Click here for the latest political news