The season might only be four matches into the Kenya Premier League but relegation candidates are emerging even this early. Three of the basement clubs— Nzoia United, Thika United and Vihiga United—are united in one thing, they are the only teams yet to taste victory in the top flight league in this campaign. It is worse for Nzoia Sugar, who have yet to get a point on board. It’s a case of the second season malaise for promoted sides, which seem to be getting to them after they impressed in the last campaign, finishing in the top half of the table. Coach Bernard Mwalala has called for patience as he seeks to turn around the fortunes of the Sudi side following their 2-1 loss to Tusker on Saturday. “We are work in progress and we will get better. Tusker dominated the first half but we made some tactical changes in the second half and we did well. We, however, need to score goals and this is a problem I am working on. We only need patience from the fans and management and with time, things will be better,” explained Mwalala. “We have a very young squad. For instance, I used Patrick Otieno who is a Form 4 student and my right-back is also an upcoming youngster. We played well but the end result is not good. We are building a team and I believe we will get better,” he said. Thika United too are yet to win a match this season and Sunday’s loss to Zoo Kericho despite taking the lead shows that Nicholas Muyoti’s men who only avoided being dropped to the second tier league by winning their playoffs seem not to have learned from the mistakes of the last campaign. Last season the team could not get points against teams closer to them but would nick results against high flying sides. Muyoti’s main management skills will be required if Thika are to stay afloat again with the many injuries they still have to cope with. As expected by many, Vihiga are in the drop zone in their maiden top flight campaign. Despite the experience of some of their players like Charles Okwemba and Andrew Murunga, the mere fact that the club has never featured in the Premier League before makes them a sitting duck for established sides looking for easy points.