Outgoing Agriculture CS Willy Bett has been accused by some stakeholders of presiding over the final nail in the coffin of the sugar industry. It has emerged that the country imported a colossal amount of sugar. This means there must have been efficient collaboration between the powerful sugar cartels, the Agriculture ministry, related government ministries and the Agriculture Food, and Fisheries Authority. According to reliable reports, the godowns in Mombasa are bursting with cheap sugar imports, about 900,000 tonnes. Annually local millers are estimated to produce about 450,000 tonnes, which may have dropped further because of poor performance. Total annual demand for sugar in Kenya is estimated at 610,000 tonnes, the deficit is filled by imports. The 900,000 tonnes in the godowns may take up to 10 months to clear. It already has surpassed the annual demand by nearly 300,000 tonnes. This begs the question, where will the locally produced sugar go? What will be the fate of the country’s millers such as Mumias Sugar, Nzoia, Sony, Chemilil, Butali, Kibos, West Kenya and new entrants such as Busia Sugar Industries, which has invested Sh6 billion in building a new factory in Busia county? What will be the fate of the more than two million farmers who have invested heavily in sugarcane farming? The BSI, which was supposed to have started production full blast more than 10 months ago, has been plagued with frivolous legal battles financed by its competitors — but the company has fought on. The story does not end there. Reports from impeccable sources at the Mombasa port, the shipping industry and industry stakeholders indicate that more colossal tonnes destined for the Kenyan market are still on the high seas. Some of these cheap imports are labelled as destined for neighbouring countries of Tanzania, Uganda, South Sudan, Somalia, Djibouti, Seychelles and Mozambique, but they are usually offloaded from the mother ships on the high seas. Then they are brought to Kenya by small high-speed boats that dock at private jetties in the Indian Ocean. The immediate consequence on the market is consumer prices will remain low. The sugarcane farmers will have to bear the consequence because the millers will not be able to meet the cost of producing sugar locally since they cannot sell whatever little they have. What has clearly emerged is the fact that the country’s import programme was hijacked by the mighty cartels to enrich and finance last year’s campaigns. Indeed, it is a real tragedy for sugarcane farmers. Prices will remain low and the crop they have wasted so much cash to invest in its production rendered useless. It has also clearly emerged the cartels imported through local millers. Some sugar is still in the ships waiting for tax waiver. It is ruinous for the Western Kenya economy, whose sole backbone is sugarcane production. The cheap imports have not only created joblessness in Busia, Bungoma, Mumias, Kakamega, Bungoma, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay and Migori counties, but also driven crime to an all-time high. The youth who were working in sugar plantations and factories are now jobless. It is against this background that farmers in Western Kenya are demanding the immediate implementation of the 11th Parliament report titled ‘The Crisis Facing the Sugar Industry in Kenya’. This will go a long way in dealing a deathblow to most of the loopholes in the sugar industry that the cartels are exploiting. Barasa is a journalist and a media consultant jobarasa@gmail.com  