Lands CS nominee Farida Karoney yesterday promised to eliminate cartels in the ministry as former Meru Governor Peter Munya was put to task by MPs during vetting. Karoney, the fourth nominee to appear before the Appointments Committee, said she will digitise land records to lock out cartels that have held the ministry hostage. “Cartels are roaming around Ardhi House because they know that land records are not secure,” Karoney said. The Royal Media chief operating officer was responding to questions from National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. Duale had asked Karoney to explain why she thought she will succeed where your predecessors failed. “Why should we believe that you will succeed where James Orengo, Charity Ngilu and Jacob Kaimenyi failed,” Duale asked. Karoney said she will digistise records and make it inaccessible to fraudsters. Under probe Her vast experience in management will help her align resources in the ministry to ensure they help President Uhuru Kenyatta deliver on his “Big Four” agenda. Munya, the last to face the panel yesterday, tore into an affidavit that sought to have him rejected. Kennedy Lubengu had accused Munya of being unfit to hold public office, claiming he was under investigation by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption. Lubengu accused Munya of using public cash to fuel his vehicle while Governor of Meru. He also accused Munya of refusing to appear before the Senate Public Accounts Committee to respond to audit queries. Munya dismissed the claims, saying they were malicious and baseless. “I’m not aware I am under any investigations from EACC. All these is malicious and motivated by bad faith,” Munya said. The former CoG chairman also faced a second affidavit from Alphonse Musyoki, who claimed he a member of both Alliance Party of Kenya and Party of National Unity. “I don’t know how he got the document that I belong to two political parties, yet he is not the registrar of political parties. I was cleared to run for governor because I belonged to PNU. I have since resigned”. Cabinet disease Duale said Munya had announced that he would not appear before Senate to respond to audit querries. “You made other governors snub Senate summons. If we approve you, my worry is that you might take the same disease to Cabinet,” Duale said. “I will adhere to Article 125 and appear before the National Assembly and Senate if summoned. I will not influence anybody to contravene the law,” Munya said. Read:I'll crush all land cartels, Farida Karoney pledges during vetting