President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned his Cabinet to either deliver or ship out as he starts his final term that will define his legacy. “This might also be the appropriate time to say should you, at any time, feel the weight is too much, just say so. There are other Kenyans ready to do the job,” Uhuru said. “It is now business unusual and not business as usual,” the President said on Friday. Margaret Kobia (Public Service), Keriako Tobiko (Environment), Rashid Achesa (Sports) and John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining) took the oath office at State House, Nairobi. Read: It's business unusual, quit if you can't deliver, Uhuru tells ministers Others are  Peter Munya (East African Community), Simon Chelugui (Water), Farida Keroney (Lands), Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs) and Ukur Yattani (Labour). He also cautioned the CSs against corruption and urged them to be selfless to impact positively on the people’s e lives . march towards prosperity “High office is not a platform for self actualisation and pandering to ego. It is a rear calling, a precious honour bestowed upon you. It is about selflessness in order to guarantee growth and prosperity that leave no single Kenyan behind,” Uhuru said. “To those whom much has been given, much is expected.” Uhuru announced his administration has ignited an unstoppable march towards sustainable prosperity, unity, stability and the realisation of the hopes and dreams of Kenyans. Related: Uhuru’s firm grip on power is now complete “In my second term I have promised Kenyans shall receive an open, transparent and accountable government that will be easily accessible, responsive and committed to excellence,” he said. The Head of State defended his second administration from criticism that it has ethnic imbalance. Uhuru clarified that his choice of second Cabinet has adhered to the constitutional requirements, making it steadfast to leave a worth-emulating track record. “Our nation’s unity is at the heart of my second administration. It is for this reason that we have taken deliberate steps to form a Cabinet that reflects the face of Kenya, our cultural, religious, ethnic and gender diversity,” he said. Read: Nine Cabinet secretaries pledge to uphold law at swearing-in  Click here for the latest political
news