Strathmore University Scorpions whipped Multimedia University 8-0 in their final match of the 2017/2018 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women’s Premier League season at City Park Stadium yesterday. Scorpions, fresh from the Africa Club Championships where they finished fifth, mauled their fellow students to finish their season in third position with 43 points—14 points behind leaders Telkom who have a match in hand. The experience gained at the continental show was evident from onset as the deadly Scorpions dominated the match with their fast passes and good co-ordination. Enjoying ball possession and short passes, Meshack Senge’s girls pinned their opponents in their own half for the better part of the first quarter as their pursuit for the opening game grew with each minute. Under pressure to repulse Scorpions, Multimedia committed fouls in their half and could not endure the pressure anymore as they let in the first goal barely 10 minutes into the match. Denise Odongo picked the ball in the box, rounded off two defenders before slamming it past a helpless custodian. The goal did little in slowing Scorpions’ thirsty for more as Kenyan international Gilly Okumu doubled the numbers on the scoreboard in the 22nd minute with a well taken field goal before making it 3-0 for her side in the 28th minute. Seconds to the half-time whistle, Virginia Wanyee got her name to the score sheets and made it 4-0 for Scorpions. Efforts by Multimedia head coach Vincent Odhiambo to have her leaking defence chip in less goals in the second half were futile as Lorraine Muturi sounded the board in the 33rd minute and Odongo completed her brace ten minutes later. Wing back Lynn Wendy helped herself to the score sheet with Scorpions’ seventh goal in the 50th minute as Okumu competed her hat-trick in the 60th minute. Despite the huge win, Scorpions could not topple second placed USIU-A Spartans and hence will miss out in this year’s Africa Club Championships. Their head coach Senge praised the playing unit for showing an improved game. He said: “We picked lessons from the Africa Club Championships and I am happy they are putting them in practice. It’s unfortunate we will miss in next year’s edition but we will be stronger in the forthcoming season.” In another duel staged at the same venue, Telkom slapped Kenyatta University 6-0. Audrey Omaido ( 10 ), Jane Ofula ( 21 ), Jacky Mwangi( 22 ), Maureen Okumu ( 24 ), Hellen Chemutai ( 29 ) and Tracy Nungari ( 55 ) scored for the leaders Telkom.