Kenya has become a precious sanctuary and retreat for both Prince William and Harry. Experts believe they have helped to save some of Africa’s endangered species "I have this intense sense of relaxation and normality here. To lose myself in the bush with what I would call the most down to earth people on the planet, people with no ulterior motives, no agendas, who would sacrifice everything for the betterment of nature…" Prince Harry said. To Harry and his brother William, it has become a precious sanctuary, a retreat that offered them comfort after their mother’s death, and has since become a second home. Both princes have embraced the continent’s wide open spaces, its wilderness and its wildlife with a fervour that many conservationists believe will help save Africa’s endangered species. ‘You can’t exaggerate their importance in Africa’s conservation wars,’ says Charlie Mayhew, chief executive of Tusk Trust, the wildlife charity of which William is patron. Harry says: ‘[Africa] is where I feel more like myself than anywhere in the world. I first came in 1997, straight after my mum died. My dad told my brother and me to pack our bags – we were going to Africa to get away from it all.’ That trip established an enduring passion for the continent. William began travelling to Lewa Downs, the wildlife sanctuary run by Kenyan landowner and conservationist Ian Craig. ‘My children were the same age as William and they became firm friends,’ says Craig. ‘We established a lifelong friendship from there.’ William spent some of his gap year at Lewa and dated Craig’s glamorous daughter Jecca, his first serious girlfriend. At the same time he developed an on-the-ground knowledge of rhino and elephant poaching, which for decades had blighted Kenya and neighbouring countries. It was this knowledge that convinced him to become Royal patron of Tusk Trust. Lewa Conservancy has developed dramatically since Craig started it as a 5,000-acre rhino sanctuary in the mid-1980s. It is now spread over 62,000 acres, has World Heritage Site status and, according to Craig, William’s role in its development and international recognition has been crucial. ‘He has been a massive conduit between conservation here on the ground and the Western leaders he is interacting with on a daily basis,’ says Craig. However, William’s attachment to this remote Kenyan outpost was as much personal as it was about pure conservation. He developed an enduring friendship with the Craig family and their friends. In 2008 he flew to Lewa Downs to attend the wedding of Craig’s son Batian and later attended Jecca’s big day too. And in 2010, William proposed to Kate Middleton at Rutundu, a remote lodge just a short helicopter ride from Lewa. It is easy to see what attracts the Prince to Lewa. With Mount Kenya as the backdrop, its endless rolling grasslands and flat-topped acacia trees provide the perfect ecosystem for rhinos, lions, elephants, cheetahs, wild dogs, and the world’s largest population of the endangered Grevy’s zebra. At the Lewa Safari Camp, you can relax on the veranda with a G&T, watch the sun set over the golden grasslands and listen to the sounds of the wilderness. As night falls, you sit around a glowing campfire as lions roar across the open plains and perhaps a herd of elephants will pass silently through the camp, giant ghostly shapes illuminated by the moon.