Knut Garissa branch yesterday proposed to the TSC a raft of measures to help end attacks on non-native teachers in Northeastern. The proposals come barely a week after two non-native teachers were killed at Qarsa Primary School in Wajir. This prompted a massive exodus of teachers, leading to a crisis. Top on the list outlined by secretary general Abdirizak Hussein and his team is to have the President issue a decree lowering the entry point grade for locals willing to join teachers training colleges to C-minus. They urged that Form Four leavers be hired as untrained teachers for Standard One to Five pupils, as they undergo a three-year P1 training at the Garissa Teachers Training College. This would allow the Teachers’ Service Commission to employ them officially upon attaining the required skills and knowledge, they said in Garissa town after touring some schools. The national and county governments should work out a formula on how to allocate funds for the programme and ensure beneficiaries are trained and paid, the officials said. Hussein said non-natives should be restricted to schools in urban centres, and, where necessary, police reservists are deployed to such schools to ensure their safety. “We are telling the government this: Please, if you have the education interests of Northern Kenya at heart, let the UT programme be rolled out. Let our children be taken care of by our people who know the terrain well,” Hussein said. He said 88 natives are expected to graduate this year from the Garissa Teachers’ Training College and urged that they be posted to schools facing security threats to fix the teacher shortage problem. “As a teachers’ union, we suggest this be done if the government is really serious in addressing the problem. Let the nonlocal teachers be removed from war-prone areas at the border and be taken to safer areas,” Hussein said. He said Garissa faces an acute shortage of teachers and 13 schools, including Bulla Golol, Fafi, Dekaharja, Alinjugur, Amuma, Kulan, Maleilei 1 and 2, and Damajaley primary schools, could be closed if the government does not act swiftly. In primary schools, 790 teachers are needed in 195 schools. Some 33 secondary schools require 214 teachers. Meanwhile, Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey urged the county to come up with long-term solutions. He told the three northeastern counties to convene a conference to discuss the problems and urged them to provide incentives to motivate teachers.