A six-year-old girl is undergoing re-constructive surgery at Nairobi Women’s Hospital after she was raped by her uncle in October last year. Draped in a blue hospital gown, Chela (not her real name) has lost control of her bowel movement. Her 23-year-old mother has to keep changing her diapers. She is poor, and was unable to take her daughter to hospital. However, a WhatsApp group “Bomet Professionals” came to their rescue. One of the members, Josephine Chepkoech, heard about the case and shared it. “A member shared Chela’s ordeal. I was touched by her story, I felt moved to help,” Chepkoech said. The mother said on the fateful day, Chela went to school and got backhome at noon and found her uncle. “I was at the shamba. Chela went home and found my elder brother. She changed and was going out to play when he removed her panty and told her to go bed and sleep. She obeyed. My dear child was told never to tell anyone. She was promised Sh10 to buy madazi,” the mother said. Suspect arrested When her mother returned, she noticed Chela had a problem walking. Her clothes were soiled. She passed urine and feaces uncontrollably. The mother beat her. When she learnt about what happened, she wanted her brother arrested, but he ran away from home. The mother said her little girl later opened up. “Geoffrey aliniambia kuja tulale na usiambie mama.” (Geoffrey told me let’s go and sleep but don’t tell mum). “My sick brother has stolen my child’s innocence. But why would he do that?” she asked Chela was first taken to a dispensary, then a hospital in Bomet where she was sent to Moi Referral in Eldoret. But she had no money. Chepkoech paid for their transport and upkeep in Nairobi. They arrived in Nairobi on Wednesday last week and spent the night at Chepkoech’s house. An officer at Satelite police connected them to a lady who operates a rescue centre. “I am grateful to this lady. She doesn’t know me, but helped my daughter and I,” the mother said. Chepkoech, who runs an organisation that mentors young girls and boys, said Chela has had two correctional surgeries. She said the area chief in Bomet was reluctant to act.The suspect has been arrested. Click here for the latest political stories