The Attorney General opposes decriminalising consensual gay sex involving adults in private. The AG yesterday argued that declaring Penal Code Sections 162 and 165 unconstitutional would allow unnatural offences between people of the same gender. And that could lead them to have a legitimate expectation of entering into same-sex marriage, he said. Same-sex marriages would violate Constitution Article 45, which says: “Every adult has the right to marry a person of the opposite sex, based on free consent of the parties.” Through lawyer Jennifer Gitiri, the AG said the Constitution’s preamble acknowledges the supremacy of “Almighty God of all creation”. It commits to nurturing and protecting the well-being of the individual, the family, communities and the nation. Eric Gitari, director of the National Gay and Lesbian Rights Commission, has filed suit to decriminalise gay sex involving consenting adults in private. He argues the law is discriminatory and violates constitutional rights to privacy, equality, freedom from discrimination, human dignity, freedom and security of the person. The AG’s lawyer Gitiri said privacy is not excuse to commit a crime. Section 162 states: “Any person who - (a) has carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature; or (b) has carnal knowledge of an animal; or(c) permits a male person to have carnal knowledge of him or her against the order of nature, is guilty of a felony and is liable to imprisonment for 14 years.” Section 165 states any male who in public or private commits any act of gross indecency with another male, or procures another male to commit any act of gross indecency with him is guilty of a felony. He is liable to imprisonment for five years. |This applies to attempts to procure commission of any such act by any male with himself or another male in public or private. Gitiri said anyone seeking an interpretation must show sufficient public participation, approval and social justice in such a declaration. Justices John Mativo, Roselyne Aburili and Chacha Mwita consolidated Gitari’s case with a petition by John Mathenge and four others seeking the same orders. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata was also allowed by the court to be an interested party.