Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has faulted elite Luo politicians for stooping low to allow NASA leader Raila Odinga to use them for issues that have no value to the community. He accused professors with Phds and Masters Degree holders of applauding Raila, yet he is usind them for his selfish political gains. It is a pity they follow Raila blindly under the illusion Raila’s swearing-in as the ‘People’s President’ will yield results, Tuju said. Related : Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth He described Raila’s January 30 oath-taking as a child’s play (‘kalongolongo’). “I sympathise with our proffesors who are hoping to see ugali from a mixture of soil and water,” Tuju said. However, he was forced to shorten his speech and stop his attacks on Raila when NASA supporters murmured in disagreement. Tuju said he would not relent in rebuking Raila’s actions since its is an effort in futility, aimed at misusing the gullible followers from Luo community. He poked holes at Raila’s swearing-in as the ‘People’s President’. He was speaking during the burial of former US Amnassador’s mother Roselia Ogego in Rarieda on Saturady. Tuju said Raila’s oath was a mockery of the highest office in the land. Nyanza Jubilee regional coordinator Steve Mwanga backed Tuju’s remarks. He urged the community to work the national government. Also read : Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath Mwanga added that the Jubilee government under President Uhuru Kenyatta is out to initiate balanced regional development irrespective of a region’s political inclination. The Ugenya politician said the county governments have failed to spur development in Nyanza hence the need to work with the national government. Mwanga regretted that the region has persistently buried its head in the sand in the guise of championing successive liberations at the expense of development. “It is high time the Luo joined the government and reap from it and stop sideshows,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 