Sports Cabinet Secretary nominee Rashid Achesa has pledged to establish football academies in each county in Kenya. Achesa, who faced the Committee on Appointments on Friday, said  the academies will be help improve standards of football in the country. "I will create the academies by collaborating with county governments," he told the committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi. The nominee said that being a sportsman, he understands the challenges that come with the docket. "I understand the challenges that young sportswomen and men go through in this country," he said. "What I can assure Kenyans is that through the skills that I have acquired through my experience, I will inject the same skills to make sure that the sports docket is turned around." On heritage, Achesa said: "I come from the Nabongo clan of Mumia Nabongo. I am very conversant with the docket and feel that I'm fit for the job if approved." 'Affidavit political witch-hunt' On an sworn affidavit by Esther Kabura who alleged that Achesa stole her vehicles, the CS nominee told the vetting panel that the woman was slandering him. "I fail to understand how good one can be. I was only a witness to the sale agreement. If you look at that agreement I was merely a witness," he said. Achesa said the woman's affidavit is purely political witch-hunt. "She says I took her vehicles which is not true. The matter was investigated and it was found that the complainant sold her cars, even the receipts says the complainant received money," he said. He said after investigations were done and the cars were given back to the buyers. "If you go through that agreement, the complainant appended her signature including that of her daughter," he said. Noting that Kabura likes interfering with his success, Achesa said during the elections the woman in question published the same allegations in some papers. 'Why Kenya did not host CHAN' Achesa further told the panel that the absence of complete stadia in Kenya made it difficult for the country to host CHAN. "I have established that the main reason we did not host the games is because most stadiums were not ready. Under my leadership, I will source for funds to ensure all stadia are up to the required standard," he said. Achesa said he will source for the money through the National Treasury and sponsors to make sure the stadia are complete. Kenya was last year stripped of the rights to host African Nations Championship by the Confederation of African Football. CAF said the decision followed Kenya's slow pace in preparing for the tournament. This includes building new stadia and renovating existing ones. More on this: Kenya stripped of 2018 CHAN hosting rights 'Athletes languishing' The Sports nominee noted that when he is approved by the Parliament he will make sure that athletes do not languish in poverty. "It is because of poor management that they languish in poverty. Under my leadership, I will ensure this is dealt with accordingly," he said. Achesa assured Kenyan sportsmen that they will not be subjected to any mistreatment when he is at the helm of the ministry. Read: Has Oliech been kicked out of Valley Arcade apartment for not paying rent? 'Poverty my meal?' Achesa further narrated how his family struggled through poverty to make ends meet during his childhood days. "My mum and dad were poor people struggling to make ends meet, but with this, I later developed a passion in boxing." "I joined the Mumias Boxing Club where I could do loading and train in the club," he said. He said during this season, he realised that he had a talent in boxing. "I competed in various platforms with boxing but since life was difficult, I decided to join Kenya Prisons to get some cash that I could send to my family," Achesa said. The nominee said he was only being paid Sh3,000 of which he used part to send his sibling for school . "In 2004, while a boxer at Kenya prisons, I came across to a very beautiful lady whom we got married. We are blessed with two children." Click here for the latest political news