Baringo teachers have been warned against cybercafe fraudsters who find their documents, copy and use them to take loans. Musa Chebor, Chief Executive Officer of Boresha Savings and Credit Cooperative Society, reported that many teachers go to his office 'crying'. "They keep reporting to us that unscrupulous individuals access their accounts and borrow loans without their awareness,” he said. He spoke on Saturday during a meeting with more than 800 teachers who attended the sacco's educational meeting in Marigat town, Baringo South Sub-County. “Once you finish downloading and printing your documents in cybercafes, order the computer attendants to delete all of them so they are not copied by criminals. Two suspected fraudsters were arrested in Uasin Gishu County in August 2016 while trying to steal money from sacco members' accounts. “Through tip-offs from the members of public, police arrested the suspects - Maru Kerring and Zena Jeruto from Turbo and Ziwa respectively,” said Chebor. He said the two were attempting to use members' details, including those on their IDs and payslips, to borrow loans from the sacco's Eldoret branch. Chebor announced plans for the group, formerly known as Baringo Teachers Sacco. ICT compliance will be taken up to discourage the fraudsters, he said, adding its plaza will be constructed at the Marigat town plot so members from Baringo South get better services. The CEO also said a shopping mall will be put up on a two-acre plot in Kabarnet town. “We have all the documents for the plots and are conducting a feasibility study to engage members before commencing construction works." In attendance was Joshua Cheptarus, who is the Kenya National Union of Teachers Executive Secretary for Baringo, and union Chariman Silas Rutto. “We are happy to see our main sacco get into huge investments. Every step means the fattening of dividends for our members” said Cheptarus. The sacco has 85,000 members and 11 branches in Baringo, Eldoret, Nandi and Nakuru Counties. It has given loans of Sh15 billion to its members so far. Click here for the latest political news