Struggling Mumias Sugar Company requires Sh5 billion to be self-sustaining, the management has said. Speaking to the Star at the firm in Mayoni, managing director Nahashon Aseka said, despite the earlier bailout of Sh1 billion, the company requires Sh1.5 billion this year and a further Sh2 billion next year. The balance is needed in the following year to get the company back on track. “We are trying to bring back Mumias to its former state but, for now, we will have to depend on the bailouts by the government to clear our debts and get back on our feet,” Aseka said. He said the firm has a capacity to crush 8,000 tonnes of cane per day. But it is crushing a maximum of 4,000 tonnes per day due to cane shortage. Aseka attributed this to lack of a ready sugar market, saying the firm is facing serious competition from imported cheap sugar. Most farmers, he said, who were supplying cane to the factory have uprooted their cane and ventured into other crops. He blamed this on the cash crunch the firm has been experiencing for years. Aseka, however, said the management is working round-the-clock to ensure the firm regains its lost glory. “When we received the first cash bailout of Sh500 million, we owed our farmers Sh900 million. We have since reduced the debt to Sh600 million to encourage our farmers to get back to business,” he said. The managing director, however, said cheap imported sugar has made it hard to sell local sugar. He wants the government to keep sugar importation in check. “To safeguard the interests of our local factories, the government should really check the cartels importing sugar that gives us a hard time selling our locally manufactured product,” he said. He said the crisis became worse last year, when the government allowed cheap imports after the country was faced with a sugar shortage, when the main millers shutdown. According to Aseka, most privately owned sugar firms imported sugar in excess and are not milling, but repackaging the product, making it hard for Mumias to compete with them. He, however, assured farmers and other industry players that the firm had the potential to make huge profits and stop depending on the government for handouts. If the factory crushes the maximum 8,000 tonnes per day, he said, and its ethanol plant gets fully operational, then it will have an annual turnover of Sh40 million, up from Sh25 million that was the highest during its heyday. Aseka said this would only be possible within three years if the government will support them.   