Why do Bill and Melinda Gates spend so much of their money in Africa? What is actually in it for them? This is one of the ten tough questions the American philanthropists receive from supporters and critics alike. In their 2018 Annual Letter, Bill and Melinda answer “The 10 Toughest Questions We Get.” They include queries whether it is fair for them to wield so much influence and if they are actually not imposing their values on other cultures. In their answer, Bill and Melinda outline their commitment to listening and learning from their local partners to avoid the mistakes of past development programmes. “We’re acutely aware that some development programmes in the past were led by people who assumed they knew better than the people they were trying to help. We’ve learned over the years that listening and understanding people’s needs from their perspective is not only more respectful—it’s also more effective,” says Melinda Gates. Bill adds: “The idea that children shouldn’t die of malaria or be malnourished is not just our value. It’s a human value. Parents in every culture want their children to survive and thrive.” The two co-chair the Seattle-based Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which invested more than Sh900 billion across Africa between 2001 and 2016, and plans to spend another Sh500 billion over the next five years. Bill and Melinda open the letter by noting that while the majority of headlines focus on the negative, they see a world that’s getting better, citing that the number of children who die every year has been cut in half since 1990 and extreme poverty has declined by nearly half in just 20 years. The 10 questions in the letter also touch on other topics like education and climate change, to politics and partnership. On whether there’s a hidden motivation to giving away 95 per cent of their wealth, Bill says they do not give so as to be remembered that way. “There are two reasons to do something like this. One is that it’s meaningful work. Even before we got married, we talked about how we would eventually spend a lot of time on philanthropy. We think that’s a basic responsibility of anyone with a lot of money. Once you’ve taken care of yourself and your children, the best use of extra wealth is to give it back to society,” he says. The other reason, he adds, is that they have fun doing it. “It’s rare to have a job where you get to have both a big impact and a lot of fun. I had it with Microsoft, and I have it with the foundation. I can’t imagine a better way to spend the bulk of my time,” he says. Melinda adds they both come from families that believed in leaving the world better than you found it. “When we got to know Warren Buffett, we discovered that he was steeped in those same values, even though he grew up in a different place and at a different time. When Warren entrusted us with giving away a large portion of his wealth, we redoubled our efforts to live up to the values we share,” she explains. Melinda notes millions of people also give back by volunteering their time and donating money to help others. “We are, however, in the more unusual position of having a lot of money to donate. Our goal is to do what our parents taught us and do our part to make the world better,” she says. Bill and Melinda have now worked at the foundation for 17 years. “Maybe 20 years ago, we could have made a different choice about what to do with our wealth. But now it’s impossible to imagine. If we’d decided to live a different life then, we wouldn’t be us now. This is who we chose to be,” she says. Is it fair that they have so much influence? Melinda says No. She explains that world leaders tend to take their phone calls and seriously consider what they say. She has also seen cash-strapped school districts in the US diverting money and talent toward ideas they think the foundation will fund. “But there is nothing secret about our objectives as a foundation. We are committed to being open about what we fund and what the results have been. We do this work, and use whatever influence we have, to help as many people as possible and to advance equity around the world,” she adds. Bill explains his frustration that as much as they encourage feedback, some of their critics don’t speak up because they don’t want to risk losing money. They therefore need to hire well, consult experts, learn constantly, and seek out different viewpoints. He says although the foundation is the biggest in the world, their money is actually too little compared to what governments and businesses spend. “For example, California spends more than our entire endowment just to run its public school system for one year,” he says. “So we use our resources in a very specific way: to test out promising innovations, collect and analyze the data, and let businesses and governments scale up and sustain what works.” Some people have also asked why they do not just give their money to the government. Bill says there is always going to be a unique role for foundations. He says: “They’re able to take a global view to find the greatest needs, take a long-term approach to solving problems, and manage high-risk projects that governments can’t take on and corporations won’t. If a government tries an idea that fails, someone wasn’t doing their job. Whereas if we don’t try some ideas that fail, we’re not doing our jobs.”  To read the letter in its entirety, visit www.gatesletter.com.  