Lack of office space is causing problems in Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s cabinet. Executives are grumbling over lack of ‘proper’ accommodation and consultation about office space. Public Service executive Seth Odongo has refused to move to a sixth floor office of the Betting Control Building. He becomes the first executive in Joho’s second cabinet to oppose a directive. Odongo wrote a tough letter to Mombasa Deputy Governor William Kingi, refusing to move. He wants an office on the first or second floor. Odongo was among the last three executives to be sworn in on December 13. There was no Devolution and Public Service docket during Joho’s first term, consequently no office allocation. conflict After he was swornin, Odongo had to wait for a task force to allocate office space for all departments, including executives and chief officers. On February 19, Kingi wrote to all departments and attached the task force’s report directing all executives and chief officers to take up their new office space. Odongo said Devolution and Public Service staff are on the first or second floors. “All our related functions and activities bordering on human resources, administration and the County Public Service Board are located on the first and second floor respectively,” he said in a response letter dated February 22. Odongo said there could be conflict with a section of his department — the subcounty administration — which will also occupy the sixth floor. “The recommendation is truthfully dysfunctional, illogical and has a significant bearing on the success, coordination and flow of our work and responsibilities, which moving would have made extremely difficult, tedious and thoroughly disorganised,” he said. bad precedent Odongo said opinions of department officials and a cabinet committee were not sought on the task force report. “If adopted, the report is likely to set a bad precedent where important decisions are unilaterally undertaken without the consultation and involvement of the holders of substantive offices in the county, especially the executives,” he said.