Herma, the widow of former fiery Anglican
Church of Kenya Bishop Alexander Muge, has been eulogised as a determined and focused woman. Among the first to mourn the death of Herma was NASA
leader Raila Odinga. In his message, Raila said Herma struggled through uneasy times of Kenya’s history. He said her death is a
big loss to the country and the generation that witnessed her great effort. “As a family, we witnessed and were encouraged by Herma’s role in Kenya’s
political and social life and the struggle for change that her husband
embraced. She stood with her husband and other progressive forces in Kenya
against the excesses of the Kanu rule and in the process embodied the fight
against all aspects of injustice,” Raila said. Former Bishop of the Church in Eldoret Thomas Kogo and Cherangany MP Joshua Kuttuny also eulogised Herma. “We stand with the family and pray to God to give
them strength to bear this unfortunate loss,” Kogo said. Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo, a close friend of the family, said Herma supported her husband as
he championed for democracy, fought against land grabbing and corruption. Herma died on Friday in Eldoret after suffering a short illness
at her Elgon View Estate home. She was aged 64 year and complained of chest pains
before she collapsed and pronounced dead on arrival at a hospital in the town.
She had however been suffering from spinal problems previously. Muge who was a harsh critic of the then Kanu regime
of former President Moi died on August 14th 1990 in a controversial
accident along the Eldoret-Webuye road. He had been engaged in lengthy battle for the
introduction of multiparty politics and human rights in the country and
attended a rally in Busia, where he had been warned not to go by then  Labour minister Peter Okondo. Okondo warned that Muge would not go back to Eldoret
alive if he stepped in Busia for the prayer rally. The cleric, however, defied
the warning and on his way back, his car collided with a lorry ferrying milk near Kipkaren market. The driver of the milk lorry was jailed for seven
years but died in prison mysteriously after serving for five years. Circumstances surrounding the accident that killed
him on the spot were never resolved. Herma had for many years unsuccessfully demanded answers as to how her husband died. She fought unsuccessfully to have many community
projects initiated by her husband in the North Rift completed and on several
occasions during memorial events for her husband she complained of neglect
after the death of her husband. Herma will be buried in Kimngoror village,
Nandi county, on Thursday. Her body is at the Moi Referral Hospital Farewell Home.    