An astute politician, Deputy President William Ruto is back on the campaign trail with goodies, honouring promises he made during the prolonged electioneering and picking up new allies on the way. At the weekend, he was back in the Opposition stronghold of Bungoma, which he has made his regular hunting ground. On Saturday, he pledged Sh100 million from the national government to upgrade the X-ray and theatre facilities and improve the physical structures of Sirisia Subcounty Hospital. The area is represented by his ally, former ODM-chairman-turned-Jubilee pointman John Waluke. Read: End politics and join Jubilee's growth agenda, Ruto tells Nasa chiefs “We are ready to work with all the leaders of this county. It is not time for us to say he’s not in our party. Voters made their decision and in their wisdom they gave the governor’s seat to Ford Kenya,” Ruto told residents in a subtle conciliatory tone. Bungoma is the home ground of NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula, but Jubilee scooped four out of nine parliamentary seats at the last election. Ruto also presided over two funds drives for schools in two constituencies represented by Jubilee legislators — Namwela Secondary in Sirisia and Milo in Webuye West, represented by Dan Wanyama. While a petition against Waluke’s election was dismissed last Friday, Wanyama will know his fate this week. On Sunday, Ruto completed his mission in the predominantly Jubilee Mt Elgon constituency, which has been hit by resurgent insecurity, and called on the National Land Commission to sort out the endless disputes over titles in the area. Interior Secretary Fred Matiang’i is expected to follow up with a visit to the county this week to address the worsening security situation. “He [Ruto] knows that he doesn’t have the support of Central Kenya under lock and key. He is aware that Central Kenya has never supported a presidential candidate from outside the region. He is preparing for any eventuality where they [Central] support him or don’t,” opines political observer Martin Andati. According to another analyst and lawyer Danstan Omari, it will be a ‘miracle’ if Central Kenya backs Ruto in 2022, his loyalty to Uhuru and hard work notwithstanding. “Since the advent of competitive politics, Central Kenya has never supported a presidential candidate from outside. Ruto is warming up to other regions such that in the event Central bolts out, he would have a national appeal with a strong constituency,” says Omari. Omari says Ruto is currently trying to appease the regions he has previously antagonized, well aware that Uhuru’s turf may live up to its history. “He is aware that no Deputy President in Kenya has ever risen to power from within through competitive politics. He [Ruto] feels that should he be betrayed by Central Kenya, then he would be generally acceptable,” Omari said. The analyst points out at the possibility of Ruto joining forces with NASA to actualise his presidential ambitions. “He was the bad boy during Kenyatta’s first term because he was not going to vie. In Uhuru’s second term, Ruto has taken the back seat and Uhuru is ruthless.” Related: 'God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto Ruto successfully rallied his Rift Valley backyard to back Uhuru in 2013 and galvanised support for a hard-fought second term last year. He wants Central to return the favour by backing his bid to succeed President Uhuru in 2022. As he reaches out to old friends-turned foes, Ruto wants to ring-fence his vast Rift Valley backyard as part of his strategy to ascend to the highest office in the land. Last week, vocal MPs from Rift Valley who rallied to the defence of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter when he was arrested cooled off their weekend plan for his homecoming in Nandi to avoid giving a platform to Ruto’s nemesis, Gideon Moi, to renew his offensive on the DP.  Click here for the latest political news