Kenya’s best grass runners troop to Uhuru Gardens tomorrow for the national cross country championships-cum-trials ahead of the African show set for Chlef, Algeria on March 17. Athletics Kenya (AK) affiliates have named their best squads and as always, uniformed teams of Kenya Defence Forces, Kenya Prisons and Kenya Police are expected to headline the senior men and women’s contests. While some may be using the championship as part of their preparations for the Commonwealth Games set for Australia next month and whose trials are set for next weekend, AK remain hopeful that Kenya’s rich athletics niche will deliver a continent-conquering team come tomorrow afternoon. Among those expected to give the championships a wide berth are former national champions Bedan Karoki and Geoffrey Kamworor. Japan-based Karoki is set to defend his RAK Half Marathon title this morning while Kamworor is preparing for the 2018 London Marathon in April. Also missing out on the championship is world cross silver medallist Leonard Barsoton. Upcoming runners seeking to have a stab on the continental cake stand to benefit from such high profile absenteeism but AK vice-president in charge of competitions, Paul Mutwii doesn’t expect anything short of another gruelling encounter. He observed that runners will be named into Team Kenya by virtue of being among the best six in each category. “We are only going to pick the top six runner across the line. No wild cards,” said Mutwii. And with some athletes eager to have a go at the Commonwealth Games as opposed to the Algerian showpiece, Mutwii said: “We are blessed with many talented athletes and the absence of some top runners will not affect our team selection what-so-ever.” The 1,500m specialist, Justus Soget, Renox Kipruto, the 2017 national secondary schools 8km cross country champion and Richard Kimunyan are among fresh graduates in the senior men’s race. Here, they will be welcomed by battle-hardened regulars including Japheth Korir, a former world champion, Mangata Ndiwa, Prisons’ Cornelius Kangogo, Emmanuel Bett, Joseph Kiptum as well as Hillary Kering, Frankline Ngelel and John Chepkwony. World junior 3,000m steeplechase champion Celphine Chespol and Sandra Felis Chebet are also expected to claim a stake in the national team as they battle the likes of world cross silver medal holder Alice Aprot and Prisons’ teammates Nancy Nzisa and marathoner Visiline Jepkesho. Others are world 5000m champion Hellen Obiri and KDF teammate Perin Nenkampi. Leonard Bett, the world youth 2,000m steeplechase champion will be up against the likes of world under-18 1,500m silver medalist Edward Zakayo and Japan-based Wesley Ladema in the 8km junior men’s race. Africa junior cross country champion Miriam Cherop, world under-18 2,000m steeplechase champion Caren Chebet and Ednah Jebitok are the top contenders in the junior women’s race. 