The donkey is the most pampered but equally battered animal in Lamu town. Residents rely on the animal as the main means of transport, considering the narrow streets. However, there are increasing cases of physical abuse against donkeys. Thanks to the Lamu Donkey Sanctuary, the beast of burden now has a hospital to attend to them. It takes care of sick, orphaned, old and abandoned donkeys free of charge. It’s fully fitted with in- and out-patient wings, and offers its services free of charge. “Donkeys come here with panga cuts, hot water wounds, and others are whipped until they develop sores,” senior veterinary at the sanctuary Felix Rachuonyo says, adding that some become lame due to regular inhumane beatings and overloading. Other common ailments are bites, which are incurred from fellow donkeys or wild animals like hyenas or lions. Donkeys are stocked by natives in Lamu town and other islands, including Faza, Kizingitini, Mbwajumwali, Pate, Siyu and others close to the Lamu-Somalia border in Lamu East. Lamu town alone has more than 5,000 donkeys, and the population is rising. A donkey costs between Sh25,000 and Sh45,000 or even more, depending on age, experience and purpose for which it is being reared. The headache for many lay with treating sick donkeys and disposing of the dead. The Lamu Donkey Sanctuary, formed in 1987, runs under the banners “Punda Poa Kazi Poa” and “Happy Donkey Happy Owner”. Located on the seafront next to the KPLC offices, the sanctuary has an established ‘retiree home’, where aged donkeys while away their last days on earth. It’s the only facility that tends to donkeys in the region. It partners with the county government, the Animal Welfare Clinic, Kenya Veterinary Association, The Lamu Tourism Association, education stakeholders and the local administration. PEACE OF MIND Understanding fully well how sensitive and important the donkey is to the people of Lamu, the sanctuary has also established a cemetery, where donkeys are laid to rest when they die. Rachuonyo says it gives the owners peace of mind knowing that their animals are given a decent send-off, considering the importance attached to them. He says although cases where handlers abuse donkeys are on the rise, most owners revere their donkeys and treat them like human beings. Rachuonyo says donkeys are brought in from far and wide with various health issues, and the staff’s main job is to restore their health. Donkey owner Muhammad Babadu says the sanctuary has been a godsend to their beasts of burden. “Our donkeys would die from simple ailments or even wounds and bites, since we just had no way to attend to them or save their lives. Mosty, all we had were herbal remedies, but no one really has a specialisation to treat a sick donkey here,” Babadu says. “So we were relieved when the sanctuary was established, and that is why the donkey population has been growing ever since.” The sanctuary employed and trained six local community members as staff, including a farm attendant, windmill attendant, farrier or hoof cutter, an animal welfare assistant, office attendant and a special donkey vet. The farm, which houses the retirees’ home, orphanage and cemetery, is run on wind power, since electricity is yet to reach them. He says due to the enormous demand for their services, they have had to acquire three acres at Wiyoni area, with one end serving as the retirees’ home and the other set aside for a cemetery. There is also an orphanage dedicated to nurturing donkeys whose mothers succumb to various causes. “In-patient means we admit donkeys, keep and monitor them until they recover, after which we hand them back to their owners, while with outpatient, we treat and release the donkeys on the same day. It’s all similar to hospitals, only that in this case, we are dealing with donkeys,” Rachuonyo says. He says just like with any other health facility, great concern is paid to the feelings and injuries of the donkeys admitted. “We run drips. We ensure they get adequate healthy meals all day long. We administer oral drugs. We put others in beds at the wards just to ensure the healing process is smooth and comfortable,” he says. Rachuonyo says the sanctuary also offers outreach services for those unable to reach the centre, like those in far-flung islands across the Indian Ocean. Officers from the sanctuary are sent to the field and attend to donkeys in places like Kizingitini, Faza, Pate and Tchundwa, all for free. VETERINARY CARE The sanctuary gives veterinary intervention to more than 20 donkeys daily, while at the same time taking care of orphaned ones. It also offers training to donkey owners on basic veterinary care. “We train owners on how to restrain, handle and communicate with the donkeys. We train them on basic wound management, hoof care and disease detection,” Rachuonyo says. He says donkeys, just like other living beings, have rights, and that at the sanctuary, they strive to ensure the owners are made aware of that. The rights, he says, include freedom from hunger (meaning they should be provided with adequate food and water), right to shelter, freedom to express normal behaviour, right to treatment when sick, freedom to socialise with other donkeys, right to love and kindness, and right to rest after work. He says the sanctuary carries out donkey welfare assessment to establish the problems faced by donkeys all around Lamu, and strives to find healthy solutions. “During assessment, we look at the body condition and behaviour. This enables us to understand the form of communication used by the handler, be it sticks or coercive language.” Rachuonyo says in cases where owners are discovered to be using sticks in communication, the centre trains them on better ways of communicating with the animals. “We also train on restraining, harnessing and handling. We also deworm and vaccinate. In critical conditions, we bring the donkeys with us from the field and admit them at the facility, or advise their owners to bring them here for further monitoring and treatment,” he says. Common ailments attended to by the sanctuary are normally wounds caused by poor harnessing of the donkeys, while many other cases are of wounds that are human-inflicted. Donkeys also suffer from colic as a result of feeding on dirt, mostly in dumpsites. The sanctuary also offers gynaecological services to female donkeys. Among other issues, they assist problematic donkeys during delivery. “Donkeys, too, suffer reproductive challenges. Some get miscarriages, some are unable to deliver on their own or develop complications while at it. We help them through all this to ensure the mother and her newborn are safe at the end of the process,” Rachuonyo says. “In such cases, the problematic donkey has to be brought in earlier on and admitted at the maternity wing for monitoring and safe delivery.” RETIREMENT HOME Old donkeys, referred to as retired donkeys, while their last days away at a farm within the sanctuary. “We check them in, provide food for them and let them live to their last hours there,” Rachuonyo says. “The handlers know when to bring them here but it’s mostly when they are too old to carry anything and are mostly plagued by old-age illnesses. We take care of them and ensure their last smile lasts.” Residents remain grateful to the centre, which they say came just in the nick of time. Kassim Mussa says: “Our donkeys get all services at the sanctuary for free plus free food. They understand how important donkeys are to us and we appreciate that,” Kassim Mussa says. Mwanasiti Hawa says the donkey population remains stable, all thanks to the Donkey Sanctuary. Click here for the latest political news