NRM General Miguna Miguna is preparing for March 26 which he says will be a "memorable day in the history of our liberation struggle". The lawyer and member of the National Super Alliance was deported to Canada for helping Opposition leader Raila Odinga take his oath as the People's President. Like Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Miguna says President Uhuru Kenyatta is a despot who "must go". By phone on Saturday the lawyer said: “Your Excellency, Honourable Members, NRMKe Generals, Comrades and Patriotic Soldiers: I look forward to seeing you in Nairobi on March 26. "Let's make it a stunningly memorable day in the history of our liberation struggle. Let's make the MOTHER OF ALL LIBERATION STRUGGLES a ringing success! Viva!” On Twitter early today, Miguna announced the final itinerary for the "#NRMKe General's 2018 World Tour". It is as follows: March 2 - Washingto, DC March 3 - NY/NJ/PE March 9 - Houston March 10 - Dallas March 17 - Minneapolis - St Paul March 18 - Atlanta March 23 - Oxford March 24 - London March 25 - Berlin March 26 - Nairobi At the end of his message was #UhuruMustGo. The fiery lawyer has been away since February 6. His perforated passport was surrendered to the court so he will have to apply for another one to return to Kenya. More on this: Kihalangwa defends Miguna deportation Also read: Kenya defaced my passport to prevent my return, Miguna says Miguna was given a heroic welcome upon landing in Toronto, Canada, on the morning of February 8. He exchanged pleasantries with the people, whom he mostly called by name, and was handed a flower reminiscent of those given to dignitaries. Fred Matiang'is Interior ministry said Canada wanted "their Miguna"back. The country said it was deeply concerned by the government's crackdown on the Opposition. Details: Canada wanted 'their Miguna' back, says Interior Ministry Also read: Miguna deported: Canada says 'deeply' concerned with Raila oath crackdown Click here for the latest political news