New York Stock Exchange-listed firm Seaboard Corporation has proposed to buyout minority shareholders of Unga Group Limited and delist it from the Nairobi bourse. In a press notice issued yesterday, the American firm, which currently holds a 35 per cent stake, proposed a cash offer to acquire the ordinary shares owned by minority shareholders which sum up to 14.07 per cent. The offer, a price of Sh40 for each ordinary share of UGL, is about 26.87 per cent more than the millers last trading price of Sh29.25 yesterday. With this development, the Nairobi Stock Exchange yesterday suspended trading in UGL shares. Through this acquisition, Seaboard which values UGL at about Sh3.03 billion, seeks to bundle up its shares with those of Victus Limited to hold not less than 90 per cent of the animal feed and human nutrition product manufacturer’s ownership. link with ex-cbk governor Victus, an investment company associated with the family of former Central Bank governor Phillip Ndegwa currently holds 50.93 per cent stake in UGL. If the transaction is successful, Seaboard will own a 49.07 per cent stake in Unga Group Limited, while Victus will maintain its 50.93 per cent stake, a status likely to make them equal partners, owning 99.07 per cent of the firm. Seaboard, whose headquarters are in the US, runs operations in agribusiness and the transport industry. It is majority owned by the family of Steve Bresky, who have been investors in the flour milling industry since 1918. It is one of the largest companies in Pork and Turkey production and processing in the US. Apart from Kenya, Seaboard owns 100 per cent stake in Flour mills of Ghana Limited, Zambian National Milling Corporation, Congo Flour Milling and The Mills of Madagascar and Senegal. Also, it has a stake of at least 35 per cent in national milling firms of Mozambique, Mauritius, Gambia, Lesotho, the DRC, and South Africa. Conditions However, the offer comes with a number of conditions which include a recommendation by UGL directors that UGL shareholders accept the offer, that no regulatory body makes the acquisition illegal, impose restrictions on how the business is to be carried out prior to the issued notice or makes proceedings that may affect UGL or Seaboard profits or prospects. If the acquisition is approved by the Capital Markets Authority, UGL will be delisted from the Nairobi Securities Exchange.