Greek fabulist Aesop told the fable of an eagle that was soaring through the air when suddenly it heard the whizz of an arrow, and felt itself wounded. As it fluttered down to the earth, with its life’s blood pouring out of it, the eagle looked upon the arrow and found that the shaft had been feathered with one of its own plumes. “Alas!” it cried, as it died, “We often give our enemies the means for our own destruction.” Kenya is at a point where, like the eagle, she is soaring to great heights but an arrow in the form of the opposition and treasonous leaders’ unchecked greed is threatening our future. Picture former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton after the 2016 election, rejecting the election of Donald Trump and swearing herself in. Now imagine what the Trump administration and the Judiciary would do in the wake of that flagrant violation of the Constitution. Then picture a league of US politicians who supported the treasonous act running to the courts to protect themselves from litigation. That is just unthinkable and would never happen in our lifetime. It is an utter impossibility in any country that calls itself a democracy ready to protect that political space. We have an opposition that has committed treason in broad daylight. And in our usual casual manner, we are all eager to ignore it, castigate the government and act as though And when the government acts, we are quick to shout that it is abusing the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution. Yet, the same Constitution outlaws such acts of treason in recognition of a unitary state that has clear laws on how to form government. Like the eagle, we are waiting to see fellow Kenyans grow into an arrow and kill us as a nation. We appear ready to allow a few power-hungry individuals who do not respect democracy to destroy our nation. Politicians are fanning the flame of chaos, tribalism and disorder, eager for the country to burn so they can benefit in the wake of its ashes. I do not condone any act, by the government or opposition, that violates the Constitution or the Judiciary. But we cannot sit back and watch the country being driven into chaos and uncertainty by greedy and selfish politicians. Those who blatantly violate the Constitution lose its protection and should face the full force of the law. Once an individual threatens, or actually forms a parallel governance order as happened on January 30, they lose the protection of the Constitution. In 2013 during President Uhuru Kenyatta’s inauguration he was given a sword, which symbolises his duty to defend the Constitution. This at times will require him to use reasonable force to ensure things are done within the confines of the Constitution. Uhuru and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i must uphold the Constitution and safeguard national security before, like the eagle, we realise too late that we have bred the weapons that would destroy us as a nation. We cannot castigate the government for insecurity but be quick to judge it when it does everything necessary to protect its citizens. If protecting national security requires the cancellation of travel for a few individuals, or throwing a few errant and treasonous leaders in jail, then so be it. A few errant leaders may have to suffer to safeguard the welfare of the many. This nation is bigger than any one person.