Kenyan scientists should partner with foreign researchers to stop the growing threat of resisttance to antibiotics, the Health CS has advised. Sicily Kariuki yesterday lamented the lack of research into new antibiotics because it is less profitable. “Medicines for treating chronic conditions are more profitable than a short course of antibiotics,” she said. The resistance was no longer a local problem and requires international collaboration. Although the global antibiotic drugs market is worth more than $40 billion (about Sh4 trillion), a few companies invest in it as resistance to drugs allows treatable diseases to once again become killers. Kariuki spoke when she officially opened the three-day Kenya Medical Research Institute Annual Scientific Conference in Nairobi. The future of health is being shaped by a changing climate, failure of mainstay antimicrobials and the rise of chronic noncommunicable diseases. “Unchecked, these slow-motion disasters will eventually reach a tipping point, where the harm done is irreversible,” she said. The World Health Organization says a few cases of antibiotics resistance have been reported in Kenya. Common procedures such as Caesarean section, open-heart surgery, chemotherapy for cancer patients with depressed immune systems and organ transplants would not be possible without antibiotics. The most commonly reported drug-resistant bacteria include those that cause diarrhoea, urinary tract infections, pneumonia and meningitis. The Global Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance System Report released by the WHO recently says that resistance to penicillin — the medicine used for decades worldwide to treat pneumonia — ranged from zero to 51 per cent. “Some of the world’s most common and potentially most dangerous infections are proving to be drug-resistant,” Dr Marc Sprenger, director of WHO’s Antimicrobial Resistance Secretariat, said. “Pathogens don’t respect national borders. That’s why the WHO is encouraging all countries to set up good surveillance systems for detecting drug resistance that can provide data to this global system.” Kenya has developed and approved the National Policy and Action Plan on Antimicrobial Resistance and is building a national surveillance system.