The Technical University of Mombasa is recruiting a substantive Vice Chancellor after Josphat Mwatellah was fired in 2016. A court ruled that Mwatellah was wrongfully dismissed, and ordered he be paid Sh28 million. Laila Abubakar has been holding the position in an acting capacity. Colleague failed to make list For almost a year, Abubakar managed TUM without a deputy VC before the appointment of Joseph Rasowo. She is also the deputy VC (Academic Affairs) and is the only internal candidate after colleague Raphael Mutuku failed to make the list. Of 14 applicants, eight have been short-listed, including Abubakar. Agriculture PS nominee and Taita Taveta University VC Prof Hamad Boga also are being considered by the university council. Abubakar and Boga’s interviews are slated February 19 and 20, respectively. Other candidates are Isaiah Omollo(Prof of Chemistry, Kenyatta University), Colins Ouma (Prof of Genetics, Maseno University) and Douglas Shitanda (Deputy VC for Administration, Planning and Finance, Machakos University). Also to be interviewed are South Africa’s University of Kwa-Zulu Natal dean Deogratius Jaganyi, Kisii University deputy VC (Academic and Students Affairs) Maurice Amutabi, and Maseno University deputy VC (Partnerships, Research and Innovations) Joseph Sarima Chacha. Major strike in 2015 Students unrest at TUM is has been declining since Abubakar took over. She facilitated the accreditation of engineering programmes by the Engineers Board of Kenya. In 2015, TUM students from the Engineering Faculty staged a major strike. Property worth millions of shillings was destroyed. Public input needed Abubakar has overseen initiated multimillion-shilling projects.They include the yet to be commissioned School of Medicine, construction of over 200 cubicle-capacity hostels at the Kwale campus and a modern customer care centre. TUM council chairman Kevit Desai has asked the public to give their views on the shortlisted candidates before February 7. “Any views and opinions from members of the public on any of the above shortlisted candidates should be forwarded on or before February 7, 2018,” he said in a notice.