Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has lost a bid to stop his eviction from Sh3.5 billion land in Westlands, as he appeals a judgement that declared him an illegal occuplant . High Court judge Eric Obaga dismissed Kabogo’s application to delay enforcement of a judgment that kicked him of the prime 5.2 acres near high-end apartments and office complexes. The judgment ordered Kabogo to pay the registered owner of the property, Aster Holdings Limited, Sh100 million damages. Kabogo’s Caroget Investment Limited had asked Obaga to halt execution of his earlier judgment, arguing it had already filed an appeal. It said it risked losing both the land and cash if enforcement was not stopped, pending determination of the appeal. But Justice Obaga held Kabogo failed to give any evidence Aster Holdings intends to transfer the land to a third party. He said there was no evidence it would not refund the Sh100 million. Kabogo seeks to appeal an earlier judgment that had declared him an illegal occupant. “If Caroget Investment Limited succeeds in its appeal, there will simply be a reversal of the entry in the register. There is no evidence respondents intent to dispose of the property,” Obaga said. Kabogo had maintained he was allocated the land in 2007 by the old Nairobi City Council for a 99-year lease. He said he tried to sell the land to another firm, White Horse Investments, but the sale was frustrated when the Registrar of Lands cancelled his title deed. His firm then moved to the High Court which reinstated the title deed. A provisional title was issued to Caroget Investment Limited. But Aster argued that it bought the land from Nairobi Housing Development Limited in 1993 for Sh11 million. The land was initially comprised of two separate plots but they merged the title deeds in 1999. Aster said Kabogo’s Caroget Investment forcefully took possession of the land in 2007, sparking the battle. Justice Obaga in his October 2017 judgment ordered that Kabogo’s title deed be revoked. The judge barred Nairobi government and Kabogo from dealing with the land in any way, and to unconditionally release it to Aster Holdings. 