A number of Bills have been lined up and could see the creation of powerful positions, including that of Prime Minister. From the pre-Independence years to date, a series of amendments have been made to the supreme law to create additional top leadership positions. Jomo Kenyatta became the first Prime Minister on June 1 1963. In 2008, a power-sharing deal was struck between President Mwai Kibaki and his then-rival Raila Odinga after the 2007-08 PEV crisis, which claimed the lives of more than1,000 people and displaced more than 600,000 others. Raila became the Prime Minister and Kibaki retained his position as President. A new Bill drafted by Tiaty MP Kassait Kamket seeks to amend the Constitution and create the position of Prime Minister. The Budget and Appropriations Committee chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa is expected to look at the proposal. Kamket wants the PM to have executive powers and be the Leader of Government Business. The proposed post is to be filled by an elected MP. “...to amend the Constitution to allow Parliament to provide for the position of Prime Minister, Leader of the Opposition, and members of the Shadow Cabinet,” the Jubilee MP said. Majority Leader Aden Duale has also sponsored another Bill to increase the number of lawmakers. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2018, proposes to give special seats to women to top-up their number in the 12th Parliament. “The Bill seeks to give effect to the two-thirds gender principle through the creation of special seats,” it reads. “That will ensure the gender principle is realised in Parliament over a period of 20 years from the next General Election.” This comes as a section of Kenyans concerned by overrepresentation launch a parallel push for a referendum to slash by more than half the number of MPs. They also seek to limit nomination of an individual to Parliament or the county assemblies to a maximum of two terms. Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot leads the push. It will issue a notice to the IEBC next week. Kamket proposes that the President should have ceremonial powers and serve for one seven-year term. The Bill seeks to amend the Constitution to limit the President to a ceremonial role of Head of State and a symbol of national unity. The President would be elected in a joint sitting of Parliament convened on the first Thursday of December every seventh year. The President would not hold any elective or appointive office with political parties. Kamket also proposes a deletion of Article 132 of the Constitution to reduce presidential functions. “A candidate for election as President must attain the age of 50 years and should not hold any political party post,” the Bill reads. See:Jubilee MP drafts Bill to create PM position, one term presidency Click here for the latest political news     