Nairobi MCAs have
threatened to disband the County Public Service Board for defying
calls to reinstate six employees it sacked last year. Majority leader Abdi
Guyo said the board has ignored the recommendation by the Labour Committee and the resolution of the county executive committee that
the officers be reinstated. The officers, who
belonged to the inspectorate department, were fired last year over
what the board termed as "public interest". Former Governor
Evans Kidero had said the officers were sacked over the hawking
menace and the collapse of order in the city centre. They are
Inspectorate department director Hillary Wambugu, and Jairus Gekonge, who
was in charge of all inspectorate officers deployed in the city
centre. Peter Mwatu, who was in charge of inspectorate vehicles
used in the city centre, was also sacked. Others were Ndambuki Muteti, a sergeant, Tom Omollo, the head of
operations in Starehe Division, and James Muhindi, a superintendent. Read: [AUDIO] Kidero fires 7 inspectorate officers as hawkers storm Nairobi CBD But the Labour Committee of the county assembly investigated the
matter and found that the interdictions were political and
recommended they be reinstated. Guyo said that executive committee meeting also resolved the
officers be brought back. According to a letter by acting county secretary Leboo Morintant
addressed to the board, the county executive urged the board to
reconsider its decision on sacking the officers. "Kindly reconsider rescinding minute 79/2017of the Nairobi City
County Public Service Board meeting held on May 29, 2017 to enable Wambugu proceed on mandatory retirement and the other five
officers be reinstated to the county government," reads the letter
dated October 23, 2017. Guyo said the board did not follow the laid down procedure in sacking the
officers and went ahead to defy the recommendation of the Labour
committee and the executive committee. "This board has violated the Constitution and other related
laws. It defied the committee that oversights it," he said. But the Board's chairman Philip Kungu defended the decision,
saying it followed all the laid down procedures as set out in law. "CPSB is an independent entity that does not take instructions
from anybody because if it does, then there is no need of the board
existing," he said. He said the officers even appealed the decision to still lost, but
they can still appeal to the Public Service Commission or challenge
it in court. Click here for the latest political news