Anglican Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit has urged the government to switch on three national TV stations shut down for covering NASA leader Raila Odinga's swearing-in as the People’s President. He said Kenyans have a right to information and can decide for themselves whether it is right or wrong. “Kenyans are able to establish lies and truth and therefore the government should consider restoring the three TV stations,” Sapit said. The head of the Anglican Church of Kenya has joined a host of other leaders who have been piling pressure on the government to restore live transmission of KTN News, NTV and Citizen TV. The government has ignored a court order by Justice Chacha Mwita on February 1 to put the stations back on air. Sapit said the government should let the media do its work of providing information to Kenyans. He was speaking at Kahuro Anglican Church during its consecration ceremony. Sapit also asked the government to stop arresting NASA leaders over the January 30 swearing-in. He asked the government to stop competing with the opposition. “If this matter is left alone, they will get tired and it will die out by itself. This is the only way to enhance peace in the country,” Sapit said. Last week the government arrested Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang' and self-proclaimed National Resistance Movement general Miguna Miguna. Kajwang' was released on Sh50,000 bail, Miguna is still in police custody. The government also withdrew the security details of some opposition leaders, including governors Hassan Joho and Amason Kingi of Mombasa and Kilifi. Sapit said if the government continues with the arrests, this may fire up the opposition and prolong political unrest. He said he neither speaks for Jubilee government or NASA , but his is just godly advice. “It is important for Kenyans to understand that the next election will only happen in 2022 and concentrate on healing and ensuring future elections are peaceful,” Sapit said. He accused a section of the media of misquoting him and indicating he supported Raila's swearing-in. Private Security Regulatory Authority board member Eric Okeyo also urged the government to stop the arrest of NASA leaders. He said the swearing-in had no First Lady or running mate and was a mere pronunciation that did not last 10 minutes. He said it worked well for the government that there was no bloodshed and asked what dividends the government is getting through the arrests.    