Using immersive virtual reality is awesome. It gives journalists a tool that is taking journalism and storytelling to a totally new level. It allows anyone to travel the world, be at a particular place in time, watch events unfold and listen to conversations. Virtual Reality gives the sensation of being in the middle of an event or a story. You can actually seat at a table with three people in a cafe in Cairo, Egypt, for example, and listen to their chat.  The Star journalists Esther Kazungu and Nancy Agutu use virtual reality equipment at the newsroom in Nairobi, February 28, 2018. /VICTOR IMBOTO As they sip coffee and talk, people in the restaurant can talk to you and you feel at home. Though you can’t join the conversation, they seem to know you’re there with them. Seated in my office, I was able to experience VR. DAMMING THE NILE DOCUMENTARY As I put on my VR headset on, I was blown away and joined an amazing adventure.  Blue Nile falls. /BBC I saw waterfalls, attended high-profile events and watched a BBC VR Hub documentary titled Damming the Nile. The Nile is a two-part VR documentary, a half-hour programme and a radio documentary on BBC World Service, as well as video and text on BBC.com. As the reporter Alastair Leithead narrates, the viewer experiences the scenes, meets the people and hears the voices that he hears.We join him on his journey. WATCHING VR 'FEATURES AND CREATURES' Tipped as one of the hot digital trends in 2018, VR is becoming a more integrated, immersive offering from BBC News. With VR at the heart of the production, the documentary follows BBC Africa Correspondent, Alastair Leithead, on a captivating journey along the Nile, exploring the politics and potential impact of Ethiopia’s $4.7 billion (Sh476billion) hydroelectric dam.  BBC's Alastair Leithead holds the 360 degree gadget. /BBC "Damming the Nile is a fascinating series exploring the geopolitical struggle for regional power and influence surrounding the world’s longest river," Leithead says. Leithead notes the documentary shows that virtual reality can be used to give a new perspective on world affairs and engage new audiences. "There’s nothing more exciting than taking the audience on an immersive journey with you," he adds. The VR series allows audiences to fly high above the river Nile and its waterfalls, explore ancient Sudanese pyramids and take in the spectacular views of Egyptian temples from a hot air balloon before coming back down to earth in chaotic Cairo. Damming the Nile allows audiences to gain a whole new perspective on the conflict surrounding the world’s longest river. 'PRESENCE IS PARAMOUNT' Leithead says that audiences are put in a correspondent’s shoes - through Ethiopia and Sudan, coming to an end at the mouth of the river Nile in Egypt – provoking an unmatched, emotional experience.  BBC's Alastair Leithead and The Star's Oliver Mathenge use virtual reality equipment at the latter's newsroom in Nairobi, February 28, 2018. /VICTOR IMBOTO "It takes people to places and gives them an understanding about a particular place and allows them a presence during that journey," Leithead told the Star when he visited the Star newsroom. "Presence is what everyone is trying to achieve. This is a very powerful tool. You feel you are there. People playing and shooting games. As a journalist you can take them places." James Montgomery, Digital Development Director for BBC News said: “We’re committed to looking at ways in which to engage audiences with news, and – for the right project - VR can be an impactful and memorable way of doing our journalism." "As an international broadcaster, it’s important for us to develop our storytelling and editing expertise to keep abreast of these rapidly improving technologies," he added. 'BE CAREFUL' Leithead said a journalist should be able to know what places he or she is taking the consumers with the VR. "Some places may cause trauma for the consumer. For example, taking them for a shootout and showing bodies. First timers may be shocked and not have a good experience," he says. But he notes that the reporters need to be careful with the kind of consumers they want to use the VR for their stories or documentaries. "Be careful who you put through this. Make them understand the sense of the story before allowing them explore the horizons," he said.  Lake Tana sunrise. /BBC 'SUPPORT' To support the viewing of Damming the Nile, the BBC has launched an app on the Oculus Store, where Samsung Gear VR users can access an array of BBC VR content across news, factual and entertainment. Whilst VR headsets aren’t yet mainstream devices, shorter versions of the film have been made available in 360 video formats. For audiences with access to a smartphone, Damming the Nile will be accessible to view on bbc.com, as well as the BBC News Facebook and BBC News YouTube pages. Short versions of the documentary series and text articles are now available . The half-hour documentary on BBC World News will air at 1030 GMT on Friday March 2 and 1030 GMT on Wednesday March 7. For more information on where and how to view Damming the Nile, visit bbc.com/virtualreality