A cross section of ODM MPs have signalled that NASA leader Raila Odinga might be on the ballot in 2022. This has forced other co-principals Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula to go back to the drawing board. The three believe Raila might contest in the next general elections using loopholes in the current NASA MoU. “Our agenda number one is the electoral justice. Our agenda number two is the primary nominations between Musalia and Kalonzo for the 2022 polls,” Lugari Mp Ayub Savula said. The defiant ODM MPs believe Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula let them down after they snubbed the swearing in ceremony at Uhuru Park on January 30. Read: Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth Kalonzo defended them by alleging that they were stopped by police officers to attend the rally at Uhuru Park. "Our enemy is Jubilee, which has left millions poor and jobless. We will do all we can so that the principals can stick together," Savula said. The Lugari Mp told the Star that there was pressure from NASA leaders to ensure the principals remain together ahead of the polls. The triplets –Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetangula– have reorganised their troops to take on Jubilee on two fronts –fight for electoral justice and consolidate their support base. “We trusted Raila but ODM is using the tyranny of numbers to bring us (Affiliate parties) down. Our trust is being compromised and we can't be silent any longer,” Savula said. NASA affiliate party bosses have held a series of meetings with their advisers, campaign teams and financiers. “We held our NEC meeting today and have resolved that we will fight and remain united in NASA. For any other announcement we can make it later,” he said. Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya believe ODM is using the simmering row between NASA and its affiliate parties over house leadership positions to exit NASA and plan for 2022. “We supported Raila in 2017 and also stood by him when he was being sworn in. He should name a shadow cabinet so that we move forward,” Savula said. According to the NASA MoU Raila cannot vie for the presidency in 2022 on the coalition. But fears have rocked the opposition that Raila might walk out of the NASA to build another movement before the 2022 polls. Also read; Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent  Click here for the latest political news