Huddersfield Vs Manchester United 830pm It’s an FA Cup weekend and it’s only the 5th round. It’s a weekend where most games will put us to sleep but it doesn’t stop us from making money from them. These two teams are like lovers who quarrel each has his or her turn to win the argument. In the first half of the season, Huddersfield won the argument, beating Man United 2-1 at their home, but earlier this month, the couple had another argument and this time United won at Old Trafford; 2-0 the final score. Recently, manager Jose Mourinho has been struggling a bit in the league. He lost by a solitary goal against Newcastle at St James’ Park last weekend and three weeks ago, he lost 2-0 to Spurs at Wembley. He clearly struggles when he’s playing away. But he now knows that not only is he fighting to hold onto second spot in the league but he needs silverware and this is his only realistic chance of getting one this term. This will be a tough game given that it’s a cup tournament but I think United will just walk away with a slim victory. My prediction: Huddersfield 0-1 The Red Devils Rochdale Vs Tottenham Sunday 7pm I had to ‘google’ Rochdale because while I’ve heard of the town, I didn’t know much about the team. They are a Manchester-based club who play in League One, two leagues below the Premier League. Their manager is Keith Hill, who was once a defender at Blackburn Rovers. But it’s surprising that Rochdale find themselves in the 5th round of the FA Cup given that they sit bottom of League One and look like they will be relegated to League Two at the end of the season. Out of 28 games played in the league this season, they’ve won just five. So, what are their odds of beating a Spurs team that is on fire! Spurs boast of recent league victories over Man United and Arsenal and in midweek, they came from two goals down to draw 2-2 away at Juventus in the Champions League round of 16. Mauricio Pochettino is not known for fielding a weak team, particularly when this is one tournament he can easily win. So, Rochdale are in trouble. I foresee a barrage of goals! Poor Rochdale. My Prediction: Rochdale 0-4 Spurs Wigan Vs Manchester City Monday 10:55pm Haiya! Wigan have played in the Premier League in recent years but have not only been relegated to the Championship but they have been further relegated to League One. But they do look like they’ll soon return to the second tier league as they sit second in their league though only ahead of Blackburn on goal difference. They have struggled in recent weeks as they come into this game after two league losses in their last two matches. I realize, though, that teams in lower leagues compromise their league form to focus on ‘big competitions’ — big in their standards — for both revenue and because they actually can win them. Note: FA Cup is a big competition for lower league sides because of revenue they can sometimes earn by playing away with Premier League clubs and so on. These teams also appear to step up when playing cup competitions. But the truth is that Manchester City can play team ‘C’ with their eyes closed and still win this game. I don’t see Pep Guardiola joking around just because Wigan are way down there. He is likely to rest his big boys given the heavy fixture schedule this month but he will still win — easily. My prediction: Wigan 0-3 The Citizens