Nigerian Afro dancehall recording artiste Ketchup was recently in Kenya, and yes, we caught up with him for a juicy interview on his odd nickname and hit song 'Pam Pam'. The name Ketchup being his stage name, which most people know him by, was given to him by his friends, whom he used to party with in club. "I used to be a hype guy for club and I would change the mood of people and make them have fun, and they told me, yoh, men. We need to give you a name. You are bringing too much energy. So they said Ketchup for chips is a good name for you. So when I started doing music, I would do good music and everyone knew me as Ketchup for sweet music, and that is how Ketchup Afrodance came by," he said. Ketchup explained why Pam Pam is still the one trending, even though he has released other songs. "I think it's because of the energy of prayers that I put in that song. I pray a lot to ensure God sees me through every project I do. Olingo is my latest song and it is going to be strong, maybe not as strong as Pam Pam but big up to the producer and the fans, too," the artiste said. He also talked about the reason behind his hit, Pam Pam. "In as much as people want to have more than one girl here and another one there, it's still a way you can do that without hurting people's feelings. It's basically about this guy who gets involved with two girls but tries to hide that without hurting them," Ketchup said. He has worked with East African artistes, the likes of Chameleon, and he gave his experience working with him. "It was easy working with Jose Chameleon. I think he was organic. I had the song and I thought I have this song and I needed to have an East African remix, and Chameleon asked me to come and we could do the remix. I had already recorded the audio before I came to Uganda, so when I came we just did the video. Chameleon is good people," Ketchup said. Asked about future collaborations, he said, "I would want to work with Kansoul. I think Kagwe is also cool and fine people, and I would want to work with him." Adding, "Your music here is different from our music. With your Kiswahili language, once I hear Kiswahili music, it touches me so much, though I do not not know what the people are saying."