Standing tall and straight, with an easy smile and glistening eyes, Nolmekji Leletur clutches her data sheet with her eyes firmly fixed on a group of Grevy’s zebras. Her dedication is written all over her face. Leletur, a mother of five, is one of the scouts recording the critical data on the endangered Grevy’s zebra every time she spots them. “Grevy’s zebra are very important in our ecosystem. Their trails direct us to where there is pasture and water,” she said, adding that Grevy’s cannot be divorced from their livelihoods. Leletur is among 32 scouts in Samburu, Marsabit and Isiolo counties, who have been passionately recording data on Grevy’s Zebra. She has been doing this since 2010. Leletur is stationed at the Westgate Community Conservancy in Samburu county. The conservancy borders Samburu National Reserve to its south, Kalama Community Wildlife Conservancy to its east, Namunyak Wildlife Conservation Trust to the north, and its southern and western boundary is the Ewaso Ng’iro river. It has seasonal concentrations of up to 500 endangered Grevy’s zebras, and is also a corridor for elephants migrating between the Matthews Ranges and Laikipia. In total, there are 22 women and 10 men scouts, who work three days a week and 12 days a month. The scouts get a monthly salary.  GREVY’S ZEBRA RALLY Another of the scouts, Rebeca Lekumoisa, 25, points to the benefits of being part of the programme. “Some of our children have benefited from bursaries, while others have been in a position to get jobs,” she said. Slim, dark and tall, in a faded red flowing dress, orange and red beads on her neck, with small hair, she quickly spots four Grevy’s Zebra in the rugged plains of the WCC conservancy. Armed with a pen, data sheet, cardboard and GPS equipment, Lekumoisa is among those who took part in the Greta Grevy’s Zebra rally, which took place in Isiolo, Samburu, Laikipia and Marsabit counties. Samburus are pastoralists whose livelihoods mainly depend on cattle, goats and sheep keeping. Changing weather conditions are proving a hard nut to crack. Changing climate conditions have increased pressure on natural resources. Grazing cattle has become a volatile livelihood, as unpredictable drought and competition with protected wildlife for grazing becomes more frequent. It is for this reason that the community like never before is keen on protecting not only their livestock but also their valued wildlife. Every time the scouts spot a Grevy’s zebra, they record weather conditions, the habitat, settlement of the area, age of the Zebra, sex, age, foals, among other details that are key in the conservation the Grevy’s zebra. The outcomes of the approach have seen persecution of Grevy’s zebra decreased, as well as increased awareness. Grevy’s Zebra Trust Wamba region coordinator Andrew Letura said loss of habitat is a major probem facing the species. “A lot of attention needs to be paid for Grevy’s zebra to survive. We have been engaging the community members for them to understand the relationship between wildlife and their lives. We tell them that poor land use is as a result of their actions, and they now listen,” Letura says. Letura said the community can now practise planned grazing as a result of the awareness. “We train them on basic things, such as rain cycle, as they have been blaming God for not providing them with rain,” he says. During the rally that was held on January 27 and 28, 170 teams took part in the four counties of Isiolo, Samburu, Laikipia and Marsabit. Each team was armed with a camera that is used to capture Grevy’s zebra’s stripes. Right side of the Zebra is taken for purposes of standardisation.  TECHNOLOGY USED Image Based Ecological Information System (IBEIS) is a method that will be used to identify zebras by their unique stripe patterns, much like taking a fingerprint. A software known as Hotspotter converts a zebra’s stripes into a unique digital identifier that can be quickly “read” from a field photograph of the animal’s right side, similar to scanning a bar code. In 2016, there were 2,250 Grevy’s zebras as compared to 15,000 in the late 1970s, representing over 81 per cent decline. The results for this year’s rally will be released by June. Samburu Tourism executive Peter Leshakwet said Grevy’s are an iconic species not only to the county but also to the country. “Samburu county being the host to Grevy’s is so important. A safari is not complete, especially for tourists, without Grevy’s,” Leshakwet, who took part in the rally, said. Noting that 90 per cent of landmass in the county is covered by community conservancies, Leshakwet said the county is doing everything in its powers to ensure there is coexistence between wildlife and the community.  ROLE IN REGION Regional coordinator for Kenya Wildlife Conservancies Association Daniel Letoiye said communities have a very big role in sustainable management of wildlife, Grevy’s zebras included. “In Westgate, one of the things we do is to try and urge the communities to plan settlements, and plan grazing,” Letoiye, who was a manager for WCC between 2005 to 2012, said. “I come from Westgate. I was brought up and did primary education in Westgate,” he said, adding that the Grevy’s had inspired him to an extent that he pursued his masters on the animal. He said the Samburu culture saw wildlife as belonging to women. However, women abdicated their role, making wildlife go to the wild. At some point, women were unable to take care of them. That is when wildlife went to the wild, including Grevy’s. A lot of work that donkeys do like fetching water, is for the women, he said. Letoiye said human activities and conservation need to be reconciled. He cited habitat loss due to the high rate of land degradation and increase in human population as the major threats facing Grevy’s. Communities, Letoiye said, are now playing a very important role, and one big role is trying to coexist with this animal.