The Appointments committee secretariat has received one affidavit and six letters raising issues on the nominations of some cabinet secretaries. National Assembly clerk Michael Sialai said on Monday that he had also received documents from a rights group and the Thirdway Alliance party leader. "I have also received additional two letters from Kenya Human Rights Commission chair George Kegoro and Ekuru Aukot who have requested to appear before the committee to discuss general issues on the vetting process," he said. Sialai said he will ask the committee for directions and that the team will discuss the issues before Thursday. He asked members of the public to raise their issues on nominees through affidavits. The public has until Tuesday to submit memoranda on the nine cabinet secretaries, seven PSs and seven ambassadors nominated by president Uhuru Kenyatta. Kenyans were given a week to submit the memoranda to National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi, through clerk Michael Sialai. Only Jubilee MPs will vet the nominees on Thursday and Friday. This is because Nasa, led by majority leader John Mbadi, said they will not participate. They say Uhuru’s administration is illegitimate. “Jubilee members are much capable of scrutinising the suitability of the nine nominated individuals to hold their respective offices,” Muturi, who chairs the parliamentary Committee on Appointments, said. He said the committee has received communication from Mbadi, clarifying Nasa MPs will not be part of the vetting. More on this: Jubilee only affair as MPs vet Uhuru's Cabinet Also read: No vetting for Chief Administrative Secretaries The opposition has declined to pick its members for the Appointments Committee. "I have received fresh communication from Mbadi reinstating their position not to submit names of members who will sit in the committee and I respect the decision,” Muturi said. Mbadi and his deputy Robert Mbui are automatic members of the committee. Jubilee members include Muturi, Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi, majority leader Aden Duale, deputy majority leader Jimmy Angwenyi, chief whip Benjamin Washiali and deputy chief whip Cecily Mbarire. The others are MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Joyce Emanikor (Turkana), Sabina Chege (Murang’a), David ole Sankok (nominated), Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South) and Sarah Korere (Laikipia North), Lydia Mizighi (Taita Taveta), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), David Pkosing (Pokot South), Lilian Cheptoo (West Pokot), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East), William Chepkut (Ainabkoi) and Yusuf Hassan (Kamukunji) are in the team. The CS nominees include Margaret Kobia (Public Service), Keriako Tobiko (Environment), Rashid Achesa (Sports), John Munyes (Petroleum and Mining), Peter Munya (East African Community), Simon Chelugui (Water), Farida Keroney (Lands), Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs) and Ukur Yattani (Labour). Karoney, Munya, Kobia, Munyes and Juma will appear before the pannel on Thursday. Yattani, Tobiko, Achesa and Chelugui will be vetted on Friday. Click here for the latest political news