COTU boss Francis Atwoli Francis Atwoli says he has withdrawn his support for National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principal and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi for skipping Raila Odunga's swearing-in ceremony at Uhuru Park. Atwoli said that he will never again support Mudavadi terming him as a coward "He abandoned Odinga at the hour of need and I will never support him again", said Atwoli. Read : Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath He said the Luhya community must redraw it's strategy ahead of the 2022 polls because it has no leaders. Atwoli said he had called Mudavadi to know why he was not at Uhuru park and the ANC leader allegedly said Odinga would be arrested because the Uhuru park event was illegal. "I told him that he was the one who feared arrest. He is a coward and I will not back him again", said Atwoli. He was addressing mourners on Friday during the burial of human rights activist Ken Wafula in Soy, Likuyani Constituency. Atwoli asked members of the Luhya community to forgive him after he endorsed Mudavadi as the community spokesman in December 2016. He led a ceremony at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega where Mudavadi was installed as Luhya spokesman and the two have been close since then. "I am sorry to the Luhya community for endorsing Mudavadi as the Luhya spokesperson. Someone like Mudavadi who wants to be a president one day should never be afraid of anything", said Atwoli. He said Mudavadi should have alerted his supporters that he would not be at Uhuru park for the ceremony. Present at the Burial were Governors Patrick Wangamati and Wycliffe Oparanya, Senator for Kakamega Cleophas Malala, MPs Ayub Savula, Caleb Amisi and Wafula Wamunyinyi and area MP Enoch Kibunguchi. "Luhyas must review our position ahead of 2022. We should not allow to be misused or used to fill up votes for others", said Atwoli. Mudavadi’s endorsement followed a survey conducted by a team from Nairobi University’s faculty of Political Science between July and November. Mudavadi had emerged the most popular candidate in the rating that saw him garner 39 per cent. Senator Wetang’ula while speaking at the same funeral differed with Atwoli saying that he and Mudavadi were firmly behind Mr Odinga. Also read  : Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth He said their move to skip the event as 'a tactical and strategic for Wetangula said soon they would swear in Kalonzo Musyoka as deputy President. He said that the Nasa principals had signed a Memorandum of Understanding to bind them together. “We signed an MoU and agreed that we are bound by the interests of the Kenyan people. Me and Mudavadi have decided that unity of our people is key and our responsibility between now and 2022 is that we vote in the same basket as the Luhya community,“ he said. Wetangula said they would give more information on NASA's future plans. Malala challenged Wetang’ula to move with speed and swear in Kalonzo as the people's deputy president. The leaders also condemned the ruling Jubilee administration over the shutting down of three major TV stations. Speaker after speaker eulogized the late Wafula as a courageous man who was a true defender of human rights. Wafula leaves a widow Mariam and four children. Click here for the latest political news