One of the worst air disasters that hit the Kenyan country was KQ flight 431 which killed 169 people out of the 179 people on board. The air craft crushed in the oceans of the Atlantic just few meters from Abidjan, Felix Houphouet Boigny airport at the Ivory Coast. It all happened in the year 2000 January 30, just the beginning of a new year. The flight was scheduled to head to Nairobi. Most of the deceased were Nigeria citizens, 84 followed by 20 Kenyans and the rest were from different countries. The crush was partly blamed on a pilot error. The 10 who survived, one was a Kenyan. All this happened at night, around 9pm. The families of the deceased were thereafter compensated by the flight’s company. On April 10 2006, an air crush took 5 members of parliament. The military flight Y-12 killed 14 people while 3 survived the horrible crush. The flight was heading to Marsabit from Nairobi where it carried politicians heading for a peace meeting. Of the 5 members of parliament who died were a former foreign minister Bonaya Godana, at that time assistant minister for internal security Mirugi Kariuki, assistant minister for regional development authorities Titus Ngoyoni, two area representatives in parliament Abdi Sasura and Guracha Galgallo Boru. Visibility due to bad weather was blamed for the fatal accident which occurred at around 10 am. The accident was tragic to the National assembly and to Kenya as a country. The plane crush was remembered and honored 10 years after the crush at Marsabit as political leaders called for peace at the area. The late Professor George Saitoti at the time the minister of Internal Security together with his assistant Joshua Orwa Ojode died on a coppter crush. On June 10 2012, the helicopter, a Eurocopter AS350 went down into the Ngong forest, Kibiku area killing all the six who had boarded the plane. The two ministers, two bodyguards and two pilots, all died. The aircraft was heading to Ndhiwa, Homabay when it lost control due to speculations of a pilot error which was triggered by bad weather. The plane took off from Wilson airport Nairobi and the crash happened at around 9am. So sad as there were no survivors in this crush. All 114 people died on may 5 2007 in yet another air crash. The plane, flight 507 was taking off from Doula Cameroon heading to Nairobi at around midnight and crushed in a mangrove swamp shortly after take-off. Nine of them were Kenyans as most of them were Cameroon nationals, 37 to be precise. The others were from different countries. The six crew members in the plane were all Kenyans. Before take-off, the flight was delayed for about one hour due to bad weather. The accident was also blamed on pilot error. Survivors from this tragic moments need a lot of cancelling as it might affect their entire life if they are left alone. You can imagine how hard it is to be a survivor where many have died, questions would arise in your head on how that was possible. You would feel like all that was just a nightmare and you have woken up from it. It would indeed affect your life and possibly change it completely. Maybe you survived but you also lost a loved one in the crush so that is double trauma. A psychiatrist, Dr. Edwin Muinga said such people are undergoing post-traumatic stress syndrome which needs months of counselling to ensure one becomes normal again and embraces life as it is. According to Wikipedia definition, Post-traumatic stress syndrome is a mental disorder that can develop after a person is exposed to a traumatic event. This might lead to psychosomatic diseases which include hypertension, ulcers, asthma and the likes. “The trauma can also lead to phobia in such a way that when the person sees an airplane or even the word is mentioned to them, then they become scared,” Muinga said. According to Muinga, the affected undergo several sessions and their recovery would depend on how deeply the person has been affected as some get healed quickly than others. “They are given supportive psychotherapy which involves talking to them and giving them medicine where necessary,” the specialists said. The talking sessions involve relieving the persons negative feelings which will help the person appreciate life once more and move on.