A group of Central MPs has urged the Jubilee government to declare cancer a national disaster. They urged the government to equip hospitals and encourage citizens to go for regular screening for early detection and treatment. The leaders spoke in Wagura Primary School grounds, Othaya, Nyeri, on Monday during the burial of Esther Nyaruai, sister of Nyeri Woman Rep Rahab Mukami. Nyaruai died after a long battle with cancer. Those present included Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga and Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru. Waruguru said she will soon table a motion in Parliament to have the disease declared a national disaster, just like HIV-Aids and tuberculosis. Kahiga said his administration has started offering free screening at Nyeri Referral Hospital and will provide free drugs from the next financial year. Kiunjuri said research will be carried out to establish why cancer cases are increasing. Kirinyaga Woman Rep Purity Ngirichi said MPs must push for prevention and Kenyans urged to change their lifestyle. Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau said, “We want to know the real cause of cancer. Is it because of the foods which are being grown using fertilisers? We need government to use graduates as researchers until the cause is known since many people are dying young.” Tetu MP Gichuhi Mwangi said the disease must be discussed in Parliament and urged the government to offer free treatment. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said the Kenya Bureau of Standards should be restructured to ensure it prevents carcinogenic products from getting into the country. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said, “We need a referral hospital in every county so patients can be screened and be treated if diagnosed early to fight cancer.” Other leaders present included Laikipia West MP Patrick Mariru, Naivasha MP Jane Kihara, Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu. Click here for the latest political news 