Two brothers and co-owners of Tuskys Supermarkets facing Sh 1.6 billion theft charges yesterday lodged a fresh bid to settle the dispute out of court. On May 4 2016, Stephen Mukuha and George Gachwe were charged with five counts of stealing the money from the retail chain. They urged Milimani senior magistrate Martha Mutuku to take out the hearing of the matter to enable them have fresh negotiations with their brother Yusuf Mugweru, who is the complainant. Previous attempts to reconcile flopped. Mutuku allowed the defence’s application of 30 days to seek an out-of-court settlement. The case will be mentioned on April 16. The court was told the case against the two is an extension of a family tussle. “Mugweru wants them jailed so he can control the vast business empire,” their lawyer told the court. The prosecution told the court Mukuha and Gachwe stole the money between 2002 and 2012, jointly with others not before the court. Mukuha and Gachwe, who own 17.5 per cent of the shares each, allegedly committed the crime, with the help of unnamed parties over a period of 10 years after the death of their father in 2002. The suspects are alleged to have stolen the money in five tranches of Sh441 million, Sh400 million, Sh322 million, Sh279 million and Sh200 million from the Tuskys head office on Mombasa Road. Investigations began in February 2012 when Mugweru raised the alarm over the theft of funds. The battle for the control of Tuskys started when Mugweru accused his brothers of using related firms and subsidiaries such as Enkarasha, Magic Pay and Ndykak Investments to irregularly draw Sh1.6 billion. The brothers are also accused of attempting to subvert justice by converting the three companies into subsidiaries of Tuskys. In 2012 Mugweru demanded to see the register and bank accounts of all Tuskys subsidiaries, an audit of the firm’s books. He wanted the suspects sacked as directors and a professional CEO hired to run the business. At the time, Mukuha was the managing director while Gachwe was the purchasing manager before the fallout. The case had been pending at the DCI headquarters for seven years after the siblings were told to settle the matter out of court. In 2013, the suspects unsuccessfully tried to block the investigations in the High Court on grounds the search warrant was not issued procedurally. The suspects are out on a cash bail of  Sh1 million each, pending hearing and determination of the case. 