Thirty six female genital circumcisers in West Pokot have downed their tools and vowed never to engage in the practice. The circumcisers handed over their tools of trade to Batei location chief Sameul Limareng on the international world day of Zero Tolerance to FGM held at Ortum Center on Tuesday . They decided to abandon the practice after going through sensitization on the effects of the retrogressive cultural practice and the anti FGM law that was enacted in 2012. Led by Chemkan Alemnyang, a circumcisor, said she cannot recall the number of girls she had subjected to the cut. “I began this job many years ago and during December holidays I used to cut over 100 girls per day,” she said. Alemyang said she decided to abandon the practice after she was arrested and prosecuted. “I spent three years behind bars and that is when I realised that FGM was illegal. When I finished my jail term, I decided to urge other women to abandon the culture,” she said. She said she decide to venture into the business since it used to sustain her husband and their six children. When she was arrested, her husband left. The circumcisers however expressed fears that they may not be able to feed their families since they don’t have any income generating activities to sustain them. “Some may be forced to commit the offence secretly since we don’t have income generating activities,” she said. However, West Pokot leaders have faulted the anti-FGM board for failing to help curb cases of FGM in the county. Beyond Zero FGM programme manager Domtillah Chesang called on the board to devolve their functions to grass roots level in counties where the vice is rampant to help reduce prevalence rate of vice which currently stands at 75% in the county. Chesang said the vice will not be totally eradicated if the board continues holding meetings in big hotels in towns far away from the concerned parties. “The issue of calling few people from affected areas to trainings in towns will not help address affected people directly,” she said. West Pokot county assembly speaker Catherine Mukenyang said FGM is a threat to development and asked the board to help in eradicating the vice. Former Deputy Governor Titus Lotee and former Kapenguria MP Julius Murgor urged the board to collaborate and work together with NGOs. “We want to have totally eradicated the vice in this county by 2030 and the board should help in realizing this dream,” he said. County Sports, culture and tourism executive Emily Chepoisho said the county had put measures in place to help educate the community on dangers of the vice. “We are going to set up mobile cinemas in areas prone to FGM to help educate the community on the side effects of the outdated cultural practice,” Chepoisho said.   