The Kakamega county government will introduce a cashless revenue collection system to seal corruption loopholes, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has said. The county collected a paltry Sh157 million by December 2017 against a target of Sh900 million. Kakamega has failed to meet the target of local revenue collection for the last five years. The shortfall has been attributed to rampant corruption. The governor made the remarks in a speech during the unveiling of his new-look cabinet on Wednesday. Oparanya said the newly-created department of ICT, Communication and E-Government will play a key role in ensuring the county deploys cutting edge technology to drive efficiency, reduce costs and rampant theft of revenue. Set targets The county will introduce the e-citizen platform to enable citizens access and pay for all services on line. He plans to set high revenue collection targets and hold officers accountable. “The Kakamega Revenue Agency will be revamped and fully operationalised to ensure it delivers on its mandate,” he said. His administration has embarked on an ambitious county connectivity project to transform the region into a “smart county” through enhanced digital connectivity in all the 12 subcounties into one hub. He will improve digital literacy among residents and efficiency in delivery of services. Blacklist contractors “These changes herald a new phase in the governance and administration. I am putting all employees on notice. We will no longer tolerate absenteeism, apathy, poor service delivery and corruption,” he said. He will streamline contract management system to weed out briefcase and incompetent contractors. Achievements “We will implement a centralised system of receiving, tracking and processing invoices from contractors. This will enhance transparency and reduce delays,” he said. Oparanya said his government achieved alot in infrastructure development, education, agriculture, trade, social services, water and sanitation, health services, culture and sports in his first term.