Dismas Indiza’s phenomenal 5 under par 67 on the closing day of the second qualifier of Barclays Kenya Open second qualifier saw the long hitting pro confirm status as the country’s finest with a total score of 10 under par 288 gross. The Mumias resident pro hit the greens and fairways with precision to outshine the over 40 professional golfers gunning for Kenya Open slots. After making an excellent start to his 2018 season, Indiza who has incidentally qualified for the 50th Kenya Open, beat Kopan Timbe of Muthaiga to second position. Timbe, formerly of Nyali, played a disappointing round of one over par 73 but with his consistency in the four leg series being used to pick the remaining 18 slots for the Kenya Open, saw him dip to second which wasn’t that bad considering his current form. Timbe has been playing some super golf over the past few months and is one of the pros who stand a better chance to make it to the 22-man Kenya team. Kopan, who jointly led Sigona Tour with Nelson Simwa on penultimate day, savored a gross total of 6 under par 282. Third was Nelson Simwa, a younger sibling of Eldoret resident pro Boniface Simwa. The younger Simwa shot four over par 76 to dip to third overall on three under par 285 gross. Fourth was Bryan Njoroge, whose 2 under round on the last day, catapulted him to fourth for a total of 2 over par 290 gross. “I think it is pretty cool to hit the fairways well earlier in the season. This is an indication that the Kenya Open will be all good. My swing is closer to where I want it to be and I am glad to emerge the winner,” Indiza said. Frank Matilo wrapped up the day’s round on one under for a gross total of 3 over par 288 to finish fourth overall Meanwhile, the European Challenge Tour has announced its 2018 schedule which features three new events in Europe. Europe’s top developmental tour will visit up to 23 different countries in 2018, with all players chasing a spot in the top 15 on the Order of Merit and graduation to the European Tour. Up to a maximum of 29 tournaments will feature on the 2018 schedule, taking place over three continents in eight months, beginning in March at the Barclays Kenya Open. Muthaiga Golf Club will once again host the sole African event on the Challenge Tour roster, which will this year become the tour’s most lucrative tournament with a €500,000 prize fund.