Liverpool are monitoring developments with Tottenham midfielder Victor Wanyama. Manchester United and Chelsea have also taken note that the Kenya international has been used sparingly by Tottenham manager Mauricio Pochettino following his return from injury. Wanyama has started in the FA Cup ties against AFC Wimbledon and Newport County but has been used predominantly as a substitute during the eight other games that he has been involved in since recovering from a knee injury. That included a 12 minute cameo against Liverpool when he changed the game with a thunderous strike in the 2-2 draw. Former Anfield captain and now youth team coach Steven Gerrard highlighted Liverpool's need to find a 'monster' holding midfielder for next season to bring the best out of new signing Naby Keita and Jordan Henderson. With Emre Can weighing up a summer move to Juventus, Gerrard said: 'I think Liverpool would benefit from a monster of a central midfielder, a holder. "A Wanyama-type player who does sit in and is disciplined, and he would give more protection to the back four." "Emre Can's leaving, obviously Keita's coming in. But Keita is a No 8, Keita is a dribbler, and a runner." "The way he (Klopp) plays he plays 4-3-3 more often than not. So you can accommodate a Henderson and a Keita." Though Gerrard's remarks were understood to be innocent of any inside information, Wanyama is considered a player of interest and knows several of the Liverpool squad well from his time at Southampton. Manchester United and Chelsea have also followed the 26-year-old closely as they look to bolster their options in that position. Indeed Chelsea coach Antonio Conte has often pinpointed Wanyama as one of Tottenham's key players. "There is a player who is very important for them now, Wanyama," said Conte last season. "He is a really good player. He has quality during the game, stamina, work rate and shows great commitment for the team. I like these things about him." Read: Wanyama returns Click here for the latest political news  