There is no room for pilferage and waste in my administration and those found wanting will pay dearly, that is President Uhuru Kenyatta’s message to accounting officers in the government. Accounting officers are Principal Secretaries that head state departments; CEOs, managing directors, and directors general of parastatals, and vice chancellors of public universities. “We want to categorically and clearly state that funny practices that lead to loss or wastage of public resources will not be allowed,” Uhuru told the officers at a meeting at State House. “We will not entertain anybody messing up with government resources.” Uhuru repeated the message he delivered to CSs this month that any accounting officer who feels their work is too much should quit. Prudent use of public funds is a key plank in delivering the President’s Big Four plan that targets providing more roofs over the heads of Kenyans, ensuring more jobs by enhanced manufacturing, making sure hunger is an issue of the past, and ensuring everyone has access to healthcare. changes Meanwhile, the government is ready to surrender its stake in five sugar factories in the country as a measure to streamline the management of the sector, Deputy President William Ruto said. He said the government wants to expedite the privatisation of Miwani, Muhoroni, Nzoia, Sony and Chemilil sugar factories. “We have to make changes to the model we are using to manage the sugar sector. We have no problem even if it means we surrender our stake in the sugar factories, so long as it will be for the benefit of the sugarcane farmers,” Ruto. Speaking during a consultative meeting on the privatisation of sugar factories, held at his Karen office, Nairobi, on Wednesday, Ruto said the manner in which the factories were being run calls for the reenergising of the management of the sugar industry. The meeting brought together governors from sugarcane growing areas, officials from the ministries of Agriculture, Lands, Devolution, Treasury and the National Land Commission. Ruto said decisions must be made on how to better manage the sugar industry for the sake of sugarcane farmers. “With a situation where private companies in the sugar industry are making money while the public ones are making losses, shows there is a problem which must be fixed,” he said. Ruto asked stakeholders working on the privatisation programme to consult farmers on how the sector can be better managed.    