Kenyan waters are home to five species of sea turtles: Green, Hawksbill, Olive Ridley, Leatherback and Loggerhead. All of these are red-listed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature as critically endangered, endangered or vulnerable. In spite of enjoying legal protection under the Wildlife and Fisheries acts, turtle populations in Kenya have declined by more than 80 per cent over the last 30 years, and it is estimated that 85 per cent of turtle mortalities are a result of human activities. According to The World Wildlife Fund, trends indicate that in the next 50 years turtles may vanish entirely from East Africa. The globally significant population of sea turtles inhabiting the seas around Lamu and its adjacent islands is under threat from a variety of anthropogenic sources including; illegal consumption and exploitation of sea turtles and eggs, degradation of turtle nesting sites through illegal beach development, and damage to foraging areas (coral reefs and sea-grass beds) from pollution, sedimentation and unsustainable fishing practices. These direct threats result in part from a lack of understanding of the status of sea turtles and the need for their conservation, as well as widespread poverty, which drives local communities to overexploit both the turtles and their habitat. COMMUNITY OUTREACH The Lamu Marine Conservation Trust, which was founded in 1992 by conservationists Carol and Lars Korschen, is a community-based initiative to conserve the endangered sea turtles of the Lamu archipelago. The conservation of sea turtles remains at the heart of LaMCoT’s mission, and, as a result of the team’s dedicated efforts, annual turtle hatchings have increased from 1,865 to an average of 4,578 per year. With the help of the local population, LaMCoT has monitored, tagged and safely released over 1,030 juvenile and adult turtles back to the sea. “Ex-poachers, who previously sold turtles accidentally caught in their fishing nets, now bring them to LaMCoT, where they are tagged and returned to the sea as part of an ongoing research project," said Ahmed Shee, a turtle conservator in Lamu town. Sick or injured turtles are brought to LaMCoT, where they are rehabilitated and then released. As with many other Tusk projects, the success of the project lies in the commitment from the local community. In this case, the community has taken the plight of the turtle on board and has changed their fishing and cultural practices to accommodate the conservation efforts of the turtle. The main challenge with the tagging system is that the batteries normally run out after two years and automatically go off, making it impossible to trace the turtle. Mike Olendo of WWF Lamu says: “Some of the turtles we have tagged have been traced in Tanzania, Somalia and even South Africa. The electronic tag enables us to know if a turtle is still alive or dead. When alive, the alarm on the satellite receiver keeps beeping but when dead it goes silent and we know it has either been killed or simply taken out of the waters.”   