ARE cartels in the education
sector regrouping again? Word has it that just days after the exit of former
Education Cabinet Secretary Fred
Matiang'i, who now heads the Interior docket, the cartels began flocking
back to the corridors of Jogoo House, trying to re-establish their contacts.
The sudden turn by major stakeholders in the ongoing implementation of the new
curriculum is being traced back to the cartels trying to fight back and
frustrate the changes. Ministry staff are hoping that new CS Amina Mohamed, will also be firm and
not give in to the pressure of the wealthy tenderpreneurs. **** STAFF morale is at rock bottom
in the house of Fazul Mahamad, the
'invincible' boss of the NGOs Coordination Board. Employees - junior and
senior - have had the most dejected Christmas in years. The board is so broke,
only this week staff were handed their Xmas vouchers - six weeks too late. Talk
of their January pay is out of the question - a distant dream. Insiders tell
Corridors the coffers are empty. In an email to employees this week, the bosses
told of the efforts they are making to raise the January salaries. The future
is so bleak they cannot even venture a date by which they might have
cash. Now a large number of staff just shows up to be seen but not to
work. Moments after making a technical appearance, they stream out in search of
short-term loans to keep their homes running. ***** STAFFERS at the University of
Nairobi are in hot soup after a mix-up in the payment of the January salaries.
While some have not been paid, others were either overpaid or underpaid their
January salaries. Sources at the Ivory Tower told Corridors that those who were
overpaid received an email from the finance department last week, demanding a
refund of the excess sum. If they don't return it, they will never receive
their salaries from the institution, warns the letter that, unfortunately, was
also sent to those underpaid. The letter explained that the mix-up at the bank
was caused by newly installed software for payment of salaries. ***** A vocal MP from northern
Kenya who frequents Nairobi casinos is a worried man. It seems social media
pressure is giving him sleepless nights. At a press conference in Nairobi, he
urged youth from his region to only write positive things on one platform. This
was after youth from the region narrated on social media how the MP lost a lot
of money betting in a Nairobi casino. They also blamed him for recent
inter-clan clashes in a neighbouring constituency.  Click here for the latest political news