Impala Saracens head coach Frank Ndong hailed the character of the side after edging Nakuru RFC 43-36 in an entertaining Kenya Cup match over the weekend. The Sarries, who were down 22-13 at half time and seeing their hopes of a home quarterfinal crumbling, produced a second half masterclass to stay fourth in the log with 34 points, two matches to the ed of the regular season. “The boys played well and showed character in the second half. We kept out composure until the last minute. Nakuru gave us a fight and we are happy we got the win,” said Ndong. Impala led through a well worked try by Ian Minjire with Quinto Ongo converting. The visitors replied through Charles Odongo’s try moments later. Ongo added two penalties for a 13-7 lead midway through the half before Nakuru stormed to take the lead courtesy of tries from Phillip Kwame and Walter Okoth in additin to a penalty and conversion from Geoff Ominde to lead 22-13 at the interval. The hosts played the with 14 men after second-row Michael Gitau was sent to the sin bin for foul play. A rejuvenated Impala came out firing in the second half with Vincent Mose, Daniel Ndome, Paul Mutsami and Minjire touching down. Nakuru’s second half tries were scored by Ominde and Odongo with Ominde converting once in the high scoring encounter. Champions KCB crashed Mombasa 60-0 to keep their five point lead at the top of the standings. The bankers, who are still till unbeaten, scored five tries in each half against their hapless hosts. Try scorers for the bankers were Stafford Abeka — brace — Felix Ojow, Michael Kimwele, Marlin Mukolwe, Elpas Adunga, skipper Curtis Lilako, Darwin Mukidza, Rocky Aguko, Edwin Otieno . Mukidza and Otieno hit one conversion each. Homeboyz stayed second on the log with 39 points after a 27-12 bonus point victory over Blak Blad as Kabras stayed third on 38 points with a 47-15 victory over Kisii RFC. Humphrey Kayange scored a hat-trick of tries as Mwamba recorded a 54-12 win over Nondies while Quins edged Strthmore Leos 23-6. Elsewhere, debutants Menengai Oilers remain the only unbeaten side in the Kenya Rugby Union Championship after USIU Martial ended Mean Machine’s run. Oilers recorded a routine 19-8 win over Egerton Wasps at Njoro as USIU revived their playoff hopes by upsetting Mean Machine 19-12. Oilers regained the top spot in the league with 37 points while Machine dropped to second with 34 points. Third-placed Western Bulls overcame Moi University’s Arsonists 17-10 while Catholic Monks defeated South Coast Pirates 21-10 to keep their playoff hopes alive. Debutants Ngong Warriors piled more pressure on bottom of the table JKUAT Cougars with an emphatic 29-10 win at Kibiku Secondary grounds. At Mamboleo ASK showground in Kisumu, University of Eldoret’s Trojans scored two converted tries in the first half to upset hosts Kisumu RFC 14-10.