Citizen TV, NTV and KTN can resume broadcasting. The High Court yesterday ordered the state to lift the Tuesday order shutting them. The Communications Authority shut down Citizen and Inooro TV ahead of Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s inauguration at Uhuru Park. Royal Media said the CA switched off its ADN signals at the Limuru station, disabling all transmission. Radio stations in parts of the country were also affected. Nation Media’s free-to-air platforms were also down because of control by the authority. Justice Chacha Mwita yesterday directed the government to restore the major media houses that had been switched off pending the determination of the case. Judge Mwita further certified the matter as urgent and barred the government from interfering with the television transmission of the three mediahouses. Activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court challenging the government’s move to shut down the TV stations, saying it was illegal. Omtatah said the impugned shutdown should be suspended to protect the interests of the public and protect the proceedings from being made nugatory. “The shutdown of TV transmission is grossly arbitrary, disproportionate, oppressive and unreasonable, which constitutes an illegality,” Omtatah said. On Wednesday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said the television stations would remain off-air until the government completes investigations into Raila’s swearing-in. The minister said police were withdrawn from Uhuru Park on Tuesday to prevent a massacre as some NASA supporters were armed. He said the government was aware media houses were going to be involved in the criminal act. But Omtatah said to cure this absurdity and to avoid compromising the public interest, it is important that the shutdown be suspended. The government’s action violated the right to freedom of expression on grounds that have no proximate relation to the Constitution. The public’s right to information is directly affected since the switch off curtailed the public’s right of access to information broadcast by the media houses. Omtatah also wants the court to order the government to compensate the three media houses.