South African president Cyril Ramaphosa has promised to ensure all political parties partner to find ways of working together for the interests of citizens. Ramaphosa, speaking after taking over from Jacob Zuma who resigned on Wednesday, said he will meet with all political party leaders over the matter. He was elected the President following the 54th conference of the ANC party and was sworn in by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. Read: Ramaphosa elected new South African President after Zuma's exit The new president said he will execute his mandate with uttermost humility, faithfulness, and dignity. Ramaphosa is set to deliver his state of the nation address on Friday. "I am humbled with the privilege to serve South Africans as their president," he said. "I will miss being a member of the House but will be here to answer all your questions on accountability." Ramaphosa said his priority will be to champion for patriotism and unity of all South Africans. "The political grandstanding we have been seeing will not help us. It is my desire we reach to a level where we can solve all our problems without yelling at each other," he said. The president said that after his State of the Nation address, he will outline comprehensive steps his government will undertake to fight corruption. "Leaders of other political parties have raised pertinent issues on corruption and enterprises but I want to assure all of us that those are issues on our radar screen and we shall deal with them," he said. Opposition parties commended Ramaphosa on his win urging him to ensure South Africa comes first under his governance. South African leaders challenged the incoming president to seek after God’s wisdom and ask for courage to do the correct thing especially in fighting corruption to leave a legacy. "There is a God in heaven and let the fear of the Lord guide you. Be a man of principal even if it means walking alone," one of them said. Also read: South African President Jacob Zuma resigns Click here for the latest political stories