Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and Yoweri Museveni (Uganda) opened the One-Stop Border Post on Saturday, amid concerns that clearing agents will be rendered jobless. The two travelled to Busia for the ceremony after attending the 19th East African Community Summit of Heads of State in Uganda. The post is one of the measures Kenya has taken to ease movement of goods and people within the EAC region. The concept combines two national border controls into one, thereby reducing the time it takes to clear goods and people across the shared borders. This reduces costs and the overall time it takes to transport goods within the region. The first One-Stop Border Post to be commissioned under the EAC integration plan was at Taveta/Holili on the Kenya-Tanzania border. While closing the summit on Friday, Museveni urged East Africans to embrace integration to boost their economy.He told them to deepen their social, cultural and economic ties to accelerate their prosperity. “We should integrate in order to boost our bargaining power on the global market." Read: One-Stop Border Posts to lift trade CLEARING AGENTS WORRIED Ahead of the launch, clearing agents at the Busia border expressed fear that they will lose their jobs. Their chairman Joseph Ouma said they will not benefit from the OSBP because most of their export documents will be handled by Ugandans and Rwandans. Speaking to the press at the border on Friday, Ouma reported that the number of clearing agents had dropped from 300 to 100.  Innocent Masiga, a clearing agent, addresses journalists at the Busia border on February 23, 2018. /JANE CHEROTICH Ouma further said that more than 300 trucks which pass through Busia customs are packed on the Ugandan side. He added that the creation of the OSBP has resulted in the shutting down of companies which were handling export goods. "We are appealing to the government to review the customs laws so wedon'tlose our jobs because of the facility." Ouma accused officers of the Kenya Revenue Authority of sleeping on their jobs instead of serving them and the public. But in a quick rejoinder, the KRA Commissioner of Customs Services said that if anything, the OSBP will create more job opportunities and improve efficiency. "I dont think it will put people out of their jobs. Business flow will be advanced and everyone will be happy," Julius Musyoki said. He noted the OSBP is a very instrumental trade tool as it will reduce fraud cases, such as those on duplication, that have been witnessed at the entry point. "It is cost efficient. Our traders are happy with the flow and efficiency in Busia, which is one of the busiest entry points," he added.  KRA Commissioner Julius Musyoki addresses journalists outside the immigration office at the Busia border, February 23, 2018. /JANE CHEROTICH Lawyer Edwin Sifuna, who unsuccessfully vied for Nairobi Senator and is now ODM Secretary General, criticised Uhuru's move to open the OSBP before the construction of a trailer and bus park. He noted this was in line with the MoU signed by the national government and the defunct local government authority. Residents and local leaders had wanted certain issues addressed before the launch. A sensitisation meeting held on Monday saw them accused the government of failing to honour a gentleman's agreement. Robert Papa, Chief of Staff in the Office of Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, and MCAs David Luyemba, Moses Ochieng and Bernard Papa said the government should tell the truth about its trade off pledge. Mayenje MCA David Luyemba said that if he had the authority, he would have told his party leader, the President, not to launch the post without assurance on the Memorandum of Understanding. "While working with the defunct local authorities, we entered an agreement with the government that any investor who will put up a OSBP will build for the county trailer and bus parks and be allowed to continue collecting revenue," he noted. Click here for the latest political news