Should women who ‘willingly’ undergo female circumcision be victimised and jailed? This was the basis of a panel discussion by a team of lawyers and magistrates on Thursday during a three-day conference aimed at ending FGM. Lawyer Sofia Leteipan said it is wrong for prosecutors to re-victimise women who got circumcised because of societal pressure. “Most of these women are ostracised from their communities, some are told they can’t cook for their husbands because they are not cut and others are called derogatory names. Do these women look like people who give an informed consent to have their bodies mutilate?” Leteipan said. Female Genital Mutilation Act of 2011 does not explain what happens to women who ‘willingly’ go for the cut. If arrested and charged they are found guilty of aiding and abetting FGM and failing to report. The stipulated jail term is not less than three years. Prosecutor Mercy Nyokabi said these women end up being found guilty on grounds that the testimonies they gave outside court contradicts the one they give in court. “If we allow ourselves to let them go because they are victims, we will be setting a bad precedence. The law is clear on what needs to be done to people found guilty of aiding and abetting FGM,” Nyokabi said. Leteipan wants Section 24 of the Act to read , “A person who commits an offence by failing to report that an offence of fgm has been, is in the process of being or intends to be committed is found guilty, except where the victim reports the matter to a law enforcement officer.” Senior principal magistrate Evelyn Owande said the government needs to seal loopholes in the law. “The offences in the Act are very clear. They touch on those aiding, training and performing fgm. It’s not clear on those found subjecting themselves ‘willingly’ to the act. If you’re wrongly forced to undergo the act, you should not be blamed.” Since the inception of the Act in 2011, the dpp has handled more than 100 cases, with some still ongoing in court. Lack of reporting FGM cases and witnesses recanting statements have been cited as major problems in prosecuting fgm cases. Also Read:Kenya among top countries abetting FGM in hospitals