Karen police yesterday questioned neighbours and workers of ivory trade investigator Esmond Bradley Martin, who was stabbed to death. He was found murdered in his Karen house on Sunday afternoon. Esmond’s wife Chryssee Martin, who reported the death, said she found her husband’s body after coming from a nature walk at 4pm. The 75-year-old American had been stabbed in the neck. Esmond was alone in the house. Earlier on Sunday, Esmond had joined friends for their monthly barbecue at the Nairobi National Park, but left early afternoon and went back home, where he was killed. Nairobi Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Ireri Kamwende said they are yet to identify Esmond’s attackers. “We have questioned a gardener and a cook who are employed at the home,” Kamwende said. Esmond has authored several groundbreaking investigative reports on rhino and ivory smuggling in Kenya and the trade in China, Vietnam, Laos and Myanmar. He was said to have been working on his latest report on the rhino and ivory trade at the time of his death. Esmond, an American geographer, had been travelling all over the world with his wife, Chryssee and colleagues Lucy Vigne and Dan Stiles. They were on a mission to identify ivory and rhino markets, the traffickers and the modern-day uses. He was a one-time UN special envoy for rhino conservation. Dedicated Among his achievements was helping persuade China to shutdown the rhino horn trade in 1993 and ivory trade last year. His last report, Decline in the Legal Ivory Trade in China in Anticipation of a Ban, was co-authored by Lucy Vigne and published by conservation group Save The Elephants last year. Fellow conservationists yesterday were shocked by the murder. Stop the Ivory regional technical adviser Winnie Kiiru said Martin’s dedication was highly valued within conservation cycles. “He was instrumental in enabling conservationists to understand the dynamics of the ivory and rhino horn trade. He took part in the collection of information that enabled us to lobby for the ban on the ivory trade,” Kiiru said. Secretary General to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora John Scanlon said the Secretariat is deeply saddened by news of Martin’s death. The East African Wild Life Society eulogised Esmond for his conservation work. “Dr Martin, who was born in New York City, was the face behind bringing international attention to the illegal trade in rhino horn and ivory,” EAWS boss Julius Kamau said.