Malindi residents with kidney, prostate and urinary tract ailments have received free, non-invasive treatment from a team of 60 surgeons. For the last three days, the Kenyan urologists have been using the latest technology to assist poor patients suffering from bladder stones, kidney stones and other issues. They planned to complete 90 surgeries by yesterday evening. With new technology, patients do not undergo traditional surgery requiring incisions. Jefwa Yaa, 75, had suffered from a urinary tract ailment for more than five years. His son Mtawali said the father had been suffering in silence. He never wanted to reveal to his family that he had urinary problems, Mtawali said. “He suffered for one year until his urinary system blocked and he began bleeding,” he said, thanking the doctors for helping his father.  Partner with hospitals Dr James Ikol from Kenyatta National Hospital led the team from the Kenya Association of Urological Surgeons. He said they brought specialist services to give back to society. The medics partnered with Olympus, a medical equipment manufacturer, and three hospitals — the Malindi Subcounty Hospital, Star Hospital and Tawfiq Hospital. On Wednesday, the team was at the Star Hospital, which provided three theatres and other equipment to ensure the procedures ran smoothly. “What this technology has done is that we don’t have to cut you any more. We just use special machines put through channels, which God himself created,” Ikol said. “We just send our equipment through whatever space is available in the urinary system within your body. We are able to correct the problem.” The 60 specialists were from different institutions, including KNH, the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, the University of Nairobi, the Aga Khan Hospital, and Garissa, Mandera and Kisii hospitals. “Kenya Association of Urogical Surgeons come together and every February, we don’t work in our usual offices. We visit institutions to help the needy,” Ikoi said. “Many Kenyans go to India for treatment. Our advice is that we have specialists locally, and hospitals with the capacity and equipment needed for these specialised operations.” He urged people not to seek help overseas, saying there is enough expertise. Ikoi told residents of Kilifi county to enrol for the NHIF cover so it helps them in times of need. Surgeon Nurein Mohidin from the Star Hospital said there will be more medical camps from May 9 to 12.