Kenyans should get ready to dig deeper in their pockets to pay for basic commodities and services as fuel costs continue to rise. The Energy Regulatory Commission announced the new monthly fuel prices which are up by Sh1.62, Sh2.14 and Sh1.97 for super petrol, diesel and kerosene respectively. This is the sixth time in a row since September, that the prices have been revised upwards. The Consumers Federation of Kenya said the ripple effect means PSV owners are likely to increase fares, and commodity prices will rise because of the high cost of production and transportation. Purchase of adulterated fuel is also likely to go up, the federation said. “We will see a direct impact on the cost of production as manufacturers in event of outages or poor quality of electricity, rely on generators which are fuel consuming,” Kenya Association of Manufactures chief executive Phylis Wakiaga said. The situation is likely to worsen this year as the World Bank has predicted an increase in oil prices to $56 (Sh5, 796 ) a barrel from $53 (Sh5, 485.5 ). cartels The bank has attributed the likely increase to a steadily growing demand, agreed production cuts among oil exporters and stabilising US shale oil production. “Fuel in Kenya is overtaxed, as a country, we do not need to be at the mercy of international prices. The government needs to introduce policies that ensure the ordinary citizen is less taxed,” Cofek secretary general Stephen Mutoro said. To mitigate this increase, the consumer lobby has urged the government to review taxation attached to the pump prices. “It is unfair for consumers to undergo constant taxation while fuel distributors are on day-to-day basis making constant profits. This may lead to an increase in adulterated fuel,” Mutoro said. It wants a review of the Open Tender System, making it more competitive and efficient. It said the centralised tender system introduced in 2015 to guide the importation of refined petroleum products is dominated by cartels and is not transparent. In this tender method, a firm that submits the lowest bid wins the tender to import petrol, diesel or jet fuel on behalf of the industry, but they must provide a performance bond to reduce default. Cofek also asked the ERC to use long-term preventive measures including adaptation of fuel hedging. This means buying or selling the expected future price of oil through a range of investment products, then protecting consumers against rising prices.    