Kenya U20 head coach Paul Odera has expressed his satisfaction with the team’s preparations for the upcoming Rugby Africa U20 Barthes Cup in Namibia despite Monday’s 29-27 defeat to Impala Saracens. “The preparation is going on well. Best thing about this season is that we’ve started early...having started in July last year,” added Odera “The game was fantastic. My objective was to see how the players can deal with the pressures of playing a strong team. There are players who are able to deal with the pressure and they’ve also learnt a lot about themselves. The second objective was to see if the systems we’ve been training are working, both on defence and in attack. We are happy to see that the players are disciplined enough, something we’ve been working really hard at.” Chipu led Impala 19-5 at the break before going down 29-27. “Of course it’s always important to win a game but the score was not the important bit. What was important was how this team was going to play,” he added Try scorers for Chipu were Edward Anya, Victor Matiko, Joshua Mwangi and Zeden Marrow with Xavier Kipngetich adding two conversions with Derrick Keyoda hitting a penalty. Try scorers for the hosts were Derrick Mayar, Steve Juma, Ishmael Mokaya and Patrick Mutuku with Mark Kwemoi adding three conversions and a penalty in a high scoring encounter. “Some players have put their hands up to be selected while some still have work to do. It will be important to have a conversation with each individual player so that they can see where they are and where we can move them forward from here,” added Odera Kenya face Zimbabawe in the semifinal where the winner will battle the winner of the other semi between Namibia-Madagascar, which will take place the same day. Both matches will be played at the Hage Geingob Stadium in Windhoek, Namibia. The overall winner of the South Zone will meet the North Zone winner at a yet to be confirmed date and venue for a chance to represent Africa at the 2018 World Rugby Under 20 Trophy. 