Investigations into the attack of Kalonzo Musyoka’s home last Tuesday have hit a snag. Investigators have complained they are not able to proceed with the investigations as Kalonzo has declined to hand over a bullet and grenade pin found at the compound. Read:Kalonzo home attackers used a stun grenade - Charles Owino Police want the AK-47 bullet and the pin for analysis, but Kalonzo declined to hand them over last Thursday night. Detectives from the Karen DCI and Scenes of Crime, who visited the home, failed to convince Kalonzo to hand over the exhibits. The officers left after photographing the exhibits. Yesterday, a spokesman of Kalonzo, who requested anonymity, said, ”We are not surprised that police have decided to play such games." “We knew from the word go that police would offer excuses for their failure," the official said. Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende simply said investigations are continuing, but declined to comment on the challenges faced by his officers. Kalonzo has told police how he heard a loud bang at his Karen home and when he went out to check, he found a live bullet and the safety pin of a grenade. Nobody was injured in the 2am incident. Kalonzo said he had collected the two items as evidence of the planned attack that came hours after he failed to attend the NASA swearing-in ceremony in Uhuru Park. Kalonzo, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula did not attend the swearing-in ceremony. Failure to hand over the exhibits to police has been interpreted as a sign of bad faith. So far police have questioned security guards who were on duty at Kalonzo's home that night. A senior police officer said the guards told police they heard a loud bang, but did not think it is the premises they were guarding that was under attack. The senior officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the incident happened on the night after the swearing-in ceremony. At the same time, his security guards have been withdrawn by the government. "We will investigate to clear any doubts that the events could have been stage-managed to push the government to reinstate the security team," the officer said. Bomb squad officers are examining pieces of metal picked up from the compound suspected to be grenade. Read:Kalonzo refuses to comment on 'fabricated' home attack Click here for the latest political stories     