Gor Mahia have vowed to lodge a formal complaint with Kenyan Premier League after a section of their fans were attacked by unknown people on Thursday in Kericho. The attack happened hours after the team had registered a convincing 4-2 win over Zoo Kericho in a rescheduled league match at Green Stadium. Gor Mahia secretary Bernard Omondi said they will write to KPL to protest at the attack. “Yesterday (Thursday), a section of Gor Mahia fans were attacked by unknown people in Kericho town and Kaspoit area on their way back to Kisumu after attending a football match in Kericho. They were ambushed and pelted with all manner of crude weaponry. The cars they were traveling in were damaged and the occupants sustained serious bodily injuries. This is unacceptable! We condemn this senseless and backward act in the strongest terms possible.” “Our fans are a great source of inspiration to the players, just like all Kenyan citizens, they must therefore, be assured of their personal safety at all times. I have so far informed the relevant authorities in Kericho with a view of having the perpetrators apprehended and subjected to the due legal process,” Omondi said. “To this end, we shall also lodge a formal complain to KPL. If football is to grow, then traveling teams and fans must have a sense of belonging and security. Let it be known that our fans have every right to attend matches in any corner of the country to cheer our team. This is a right not a privilege! “Whereas we appeal to our fans to stay calm and exercise emotional restraint as the matter is being addressed, we as a club, will not be intimidated nor cowed by such cowardice and unwarranted attacks on our players and fans alike,” he added. “I take this earliest opportunity to wish all our injured fans speedy and full recovery. We will stand with you should the need to do so arise, as we have always done in times of need in the past.” “Finally, I must congratulate our playing unit and technical bench for the excellent display that saw them win their second match of the season and retain the pole position in the log. I urge our fans to remain peaceful during our upcoming matches and report acts of aggression towards them while traveling for matches. Please turn up in large numbers to cheer our hardworking boys during their next assignment.”