The sale of ¼ acre plots in Kajiado is still ongoing despite a ban by the county government in December last year. Kajiado governor Joseph ole Lenku stopped the sale and subdivision of agricultural and ancestral farms to "unscrupulous land brokers who have invaded the country". On Saturday, county CEC member for Land Hamilton Parseina said despite the ban, a lot of subdivision is going in Olentoko area of Ewuaso Oonkidong’i ward in Kajiado West. Read: Kajiado only banned subdivision of land into 1/4, 1/8-acre plots, not sale - Lenku “Any hawking of quarter-acre pieces of land in the heart of Kajiado is fake and will not be tolerated and that is the official position of the Kajiado county government,” Lenku said in December. Parseina said residents of Oltinga, Ilnaroj and Saikeri areas are also selling their land carelessly to buyers despite the order to stop. Elders told him that poverty has forced the people to sell their property in small sizes because they cannot educate their children. They said most of them have even fallen victims to land fraudsters who propose “unbelievably high pay” for property only to end up stealing their land. "Most farmers in the area have 50 acres of land with titles and when buyers get here, some of the local people engage with them with hopes that they can sell half the pieces but on receiving payment, the buyers take away the titles for processing and never return the documents," Paul ole Yesho, an elder said. Parseina said the county government is not going to relent on its plan to protect residents from losing their land to land developers. “In fact, as we speak now, the county government has made it clear to the people of the county that no house building plans will be approved without passing through our process of justification,” Parseina said. He warned people who are planning to buy land in agricultural areas to do due diligence before forking out their hard-earned money. “We are not going to do any approvals for whatever kind of development in these areas as it is illegal,” added Parseina. Lenku had in December, however, maintained that the county welcomes investors but that land demarcation plans should be respected. “We want to make it clear that Kajiado is an investment-friendly county,” he explained. We have land for industries, housing, ranching and wildlife. It should strictly be used for what it was intended for. If you find yourself in an area designated for wildlife, do not attempt to make it a human settlement,” Lenku had said. Click here for the latest political news