Nominated MP and former Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has sued the Teachers’ Service Commission over its decision to sack him. Sossion filed an application at the High Court yesterday, saying the decision by the TSC to deregister him as a teacher just because he joined politics was illegal and unprocedural. Sossion was nominated to Parliament by ODM. In a sacking letter written by TSC boss Nancy Macharia dated January 15 this year, the Commission said he should have officially resigned after he accepted his nomination as an MP. She said the commission made the move after Sossion defied a termination order from the teaching service notice sent to him on December 14, 2017. Sossion is challenging the decision on grounds it is a gross abuse of office and was without any legal basis. “I was never summoned to appear before any disciplinary committee of the TSC to defend myself,” he says. He says his sacking was malicious, had improper motives and was in bad faith. His argument is that the power to sack a teacher is regulated in law and such decision is informed by the rules of justice and fairness. “I was entitled to a one-month notice in writing,” he says. The MP was appointed as a diploma teacher on permanent and pensionable terms by the TSC on September 1, 1993. He was serving his second-term at the helm of Knut. His nomination, he says, was endorsed by delegates at an annual conference in December last year. “The annual delegate’s conference is the supreme decision-making organ of the union as per the Constitution and its resolutions are binding, unless otherwise overruled by it,” he says. He wants the court to suspend his sacking, pending hearing and determination of the case. In taking the action, TSC said Sossion defied a directive requiring him to show-cause why his services should not be terminated. Last month, Sossion said the TSC cannot purport to have sacked him when he is not a member of the commission. “I have not been sacked, I left in 2001. I’m not an employee of the TSC. Labour CS Phyllis Kandie tried it and failed,” he said. The MP said the only thing he is currently receiving is a pension and nothing more. Sossion said union leaders are normally released by the commission but retain their pension and, if they so wish to go back to teaching, can do so. “I will continue to serve the union. This is politics. Knut is not a department of TSC,” He said. Sossion has been at loggerheads with the TSC and Labour ministry. 