The Nakuru county assembly has accused the executive of diverting Sh751 million meant for drugs and hindering smooth operations of public hospitals. This came up during a special motion to discuss county affairs on Wednesday. Public hospitals lack medicine and patients are referred to private chemists. The MCAs criticised Health executive Johan Mwaura for failing to transform the sector. “We will summon him to explain why the health facilities are experiencing shortage of drugs and yet it was budgeted for in the 2017-18 financial year,” said Moses Ndung’u, the Budget and Appropriation Committee chairman. The Kenya Medical Supplies Agency stopped supplies over Sh100 million debt to be paid by May last year. Director of health services Solomon Sirma said the county paid Kemsa Sh60 million to supply essential drugs. He said He said the main problem is failure by the national government to disburse funds to counties on time. The MCAs threatened to recommend Mwaura’s sacking if he does not satisfactorily explain “mismanagement”. Mwaura one of the executives was hired by the new administration last year. nurse shortage “It is true there is shortage of essential drugs in several hospitals, that is why patients are sometimes asked to purchase drugs [in other facilities],” Rongai Medical Officer of Health Stephen Belion said. Facilities with a shortage of drugs include Rongai, Banita and Mogotio dispensaries, which have a high number of patients. The county also faces a shortage of medics, a problem yet to be addressed by the executive. Kenya National Union of Nurses Nakuru secretary Syprene Odero said most facilities have only one nurse and no doctor. There are about 1,200 nurses in more than 100 hospitals. As of December 31, 1,164 nurses had resigned or retired, while others quit. Others have been working on contract. A task force report presented three months ago recommended hiring more nurses. The county has advertised 150 vacancies In September last year Governor Lee Kinyanjui formed a task force, chaired by Prof James Tuitoek, to look into health sector problems and make recommendations. LOCAL SUPPLIERS BETTER The team identified lack of drugs and human resources, rundown infrastructure and duplication of roles as major problems. The team recommended the county administration buy medicine from local suppliers instead of Kemsa, which it said is ineffective. Majority leader Samuel Karanja said the house will not be reduced to a “talk show” but will play its oversight role.