Kenya’s Angela Okutoyi is on the brink of making history after reaching the finals of the ongoing Nairobi International Junior tennis Championships yesterday at Nairobi Club. The East Africa region 14 and under singles champion recovered from a set down to upset Egyptian Sarah El Ghazouly 6-7,6-1, 6-4 before setting a date with Slovakia’s Metka Komac in the final. The feat makes the 14-year-old the second Kenyan to reach the final of the international event. Okutoyi had to wait for her 14th birthday which she celebrated on Tuesday and consequently met the International Tennis Federation (ITF) age threshold eligible to participate in the tournament. She missed the first leg held last week by virtue falling short of her 14th age mark and since storming in the second leg, the home girl has been in her own class, trouncing opponents. Today, she is likely write her name in history books if she wins the ITF leg. Her counterpart Sneha Kotecha was on the brink of achieving the much fancied feat last week but lost to Celestine Avomo Ella 6-3,6-4 in the final, delaying Kenya’s much sought historical win. Okutoyi had her victory delayed until the third set after watching the Egyptian clinch the first set in a tie break. Okutoyi turned her misfortunes around in the second set, where she whipped her opponent 6-1 before serving her with another 6-4 defeat in the third set to book a final date with Komac. An elated Okutoyi expressed her desire to win the ITF leg to improve her rankings. “I am happy to be in the finals after a tough semi battle. It’s going to be a tough final since we both want to win the tournament. Becoming the first Kenyan girl to win an ITF tournament will not distract me or make me over excited. I want to approach the game like a normal duel and hopefully, I will win. I really want to win this time to gain more points as well as show the world that tennis is played in Kenya.” Okutoyi’s coach Allan Atola said he had prepared the player for the final and he expected her to win. “It’s a huge win for us as the coaching unit. It shows we are doing the right thing. I have been preparing Angela for long and I have confidence with her she will be victorious. She put up a good show in today’s match despite going down in the opening set. It shows she can now handle pressure and she maturing in a professional way.”