President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominees for Principal Secretaries and envoys have been approved by the National Assembly committees, which are to table their reports in the House today. Sources within the committees told the Star that the nominees have been given the greenglight to head their dockets. Chairpersons of the committees will table the reports. Tomorrow’s House plenary is expected to debate and either approve or reject the nominees. The committees have declined to disclose the content of their reports, maintaining they would be made public once they are tabled in Parliament. “Well, it is not good to preempt what is in the report before tabling it in Parliament, but what I can say is that we have approved all the nominees,” a member of the Defence and Foreign Relations committee said. The Defence committee chaired by Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito vetted Judi Wakhungu (France), Cleopa Mailu (UN), Dan Kazungu (Tanzania), Phyllis Kandie (Belgium), Willy Bett (India), Jacob Kaimenyi (Unep) and Hassan Wario (Austria). In Uhuru’s first Cabinet, the nominees headed the Environment, Health, Mining, East African Community, Agriculture, Lands and Sports dockets. PS nominees Nelson Marwa (Devolution) and Julius Muia (Planning) were vetted by the Finance, Planning and Trade committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo. PS nominees Safina Kwekwe (Gender), Hamadi Boga (Agriculture Research) and Peter Tum (Health) were vetted by the Labour and Social Welfare, Agriculture and Health committees. Outgoing director of Immigration Gordon Kihalangwa was vetted by the Administration and National Security committee for the position of PS in-charge of Immigration, Border Control and Registration of Persons Nominee for the PS Water and Sanitation Joseph Irungu was vetted by the Committee on Environment and Natural Resources. Foreign Affairs PS nominee Macharia Kamau was vetted by the Defence and Foreign Relations committee. NASA MPs Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Elijah Memusi (Kajiado Central), Paul Abuor (Rongo) and Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) participated in the Defence and Foreign Relations committee vetting. Minority leader John Mbadi was categorical that they would not participate in the exercise and had directed the MPs to snub the sittings. “Our members will not attend those committee sittings, unless they are advised otherwise,” he said. Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali had maintained that the process would be undeterred by NASA’s boycott. “NASA is just trying to hold Parliament to ransom but will not succeed. We just need to have five MPs out of 19 to attain committee quorum and proceed with business,” he said. Read:House committees to begin vetting of PSs, ambassadors Click here for the latest political news