Newly-crowned national cross country junior champion Stanley Waithaka has expressed his ambitions of taking up the sport to the next level after winning his second major title on home soil. Waithaka clinched the World U18 3000m bronze medal during the global showpiece at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani and believes it is time to get down to serious business now that he is done with his ‘O’ Level education at Raiceri Secondary School, Nyandarua County. The rookie shook off competition from national secondary schools cross country champion Ronex Kipruto and World U18 3000m silver medalist Edward Zakayo to win the 8km junior in 22:09.2. Following the hard fought victory, he assured himself of a place in Team Kenya to the Africa Cross Country Championships set for Chlef, Algeria on march 14. “Initially, I could not take athletics fully because I was still in school but now I can focus. I want to take it as my full time profession and work hard in achieving my goals. I thank my coach for guiding me this far and I thank my family for the support they have offered me.” Waithaka’s coach, Francis Kamau praised his resilience and discipline asked the government to empower the county sports kitty’s for development of athletics talents at the grassroots. Kamau observed that identifying and nurturing talents required sufficient financial support from both the national and county governments since it a costly initiative. “I have been training Waithaka and I am happy with his progress. He is disciplined and works hard. I have been touring high schools for talent search and I can say it is not easy without funds. I call upon the government to empower sports kitty’s at county level and athletics at grassroot level will grow,” said Kamau. “There are talents out there but one needs to train them in addition to physical demands like training kit and a good diet.” Kamau, who coached former Olympic marathon champion, the late Samuel Wanjiru, observed that the team to Algeria has what it takes to make the country proud. 