Kisumu High Court Judge Trisphisa Cherere will a give a ruling in an election petition against Ugenya MP Chris Karan on March 1. Former MP David Ochieng moved to court seeking the nullification of the August 8 election, citing malpractices. In the final submission, the petitioner through lead counsel Richard Kwach, said the case from the beginning was not about numbers and forms. He alleged hoodlums hijacked election to frustrate and subvert his constitutional rights. This was done through intimidation, scaremongering, hooliganism and complicity of election officials, he said. In the submission, Ochieng was to be stopped at any cost and by all means, in order to dupe vulnerable and illiterate voters. Linked to Msando death “Officials and clerks of the IEBC misled voters they assisted and stopped reading out the names of candidates on the ballot. Six-piece-suit voting was emphasised,” stated the submission. The petition is based on grounds of violations and malpractice during the campaign period. “There was malpractice during the voting in contravention of Article 1, 3 , 38, 81 and 86 of the Constitution, the Elections Act and Regulations 72 of the Elections Regulation 2012,” it further said. The petitioner claims there was canvassing for votes on Election Day and intimidation. However, the respondent’s lawyer Raymond Olendo wants the case dismissed, saying it lacks tangible evidence except by word of mouth. During the hearing, Ochieng told the court of how ODM leaders smeared his name and linked him to Chris Msando’s death. Msando, a former electoral commission ICT director, was brutally murdered before the election. He said the ODM brigade claimed he connived with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee to murder Msando so the election is rigged and NASA candidate Raila Odinga is denied victory. “That was my lowest moment. I didn’t know how to respond. My agents called me, but I told them to leave it to God because I had nothing to do with the Msando’s death,” Ochieng said.    