Governor Mike Sonko is trying to stamp his authority at City Hall and ward off external forces from State House by shuffling his cabinet. On Monday he kicked out the State House-fronted county secretary nominee and moved his trusted ministers to key positions. Sources at county headquarters told the Star the shuffle and recall of Peter Kariuki marked the climax of Sonko’s push to ward off external forces. He referred to State House efforts to control the capital. “I’m recalling [the officer] to allow further consultations before we conclusively appoint the same,” Sonko’s circular reads. Kariuki, seconded by State House, had been vetted by the assembly’s Appointments Committee. It recommended approval. But Sonko was said to have written to assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi, asking her not to allow the report tabled and debated. Kariuki was not Sonko’s choice and the governor even tried to create a new position of deputy county secretary to checkmate Kariuki if he was approved. He now wants acting county secretary Leboo Morintat confirmed. Sonko made changes in seven of 10 dockets. He moved some CECs from powerful to less powerful dockets. Changes are said to ensure efficient services. The Star noted, however, the governor’s signatures on the two circulars — Kariuki’s appointment, and the recall and reshuffle — appeared different. CEC changes came four months after nominees were sworn in. Some CECs told the Star they were still trying to understand their dockets. One said, “I would rather resign than accept this because it’s demeaning. We should have been told.” A source familiar with Sonko’s thinking said, “He is trying to push out those forwarded to him. I assure you, some of these people will soon resign.” Vesca Kangongo, said to be DP William Ruto’s confidant, was moved from Finance to the less influential Devolution docket. Last month, she threatened to resign, citing interference by EALA MP Simon Mbugua.“Some people should respect others’ jobs,” she told the Star. Two weeks ago, MCAs discussed Mbugua in the house. They said the former Kamukunji MP has been directing CECs and intimidating staff and leaders. Mbugua denied the claims. The same week, a letter emerged claiming all the CECs had threatened to resign to protest against Mbugua’s interference. They disowned the letter. Danvas Makori, previously in Agriculture, was moved to Finance. Makori is said to be Sonko’s close friend. Peter Njuguna, former Housing Finance Corporation MD, was moved to Agriculture. He is said to have been seconded by State House. Emmah Muthoni, seconded by State House, was moved from Environment to ICT and E-government. The docket was previously headed by Charles Kerich who moved to Lands. Kerich said Sonko made the changes after assessing CECs’ capabilities and weighing the entire team. “There was no other reason,” Kerich said.