The cost of living has gone up in the past year and may spill over to the first quarter or half of 2018 as increased cost of oil and the rising US dollar directly impact. Such factors directly affect cost of food, land, property and much more. The election year made things harder for businesses and trade in general which directly affected the circulation of money within our economy. Kenyans dig deeper into their pockets just to make ends meet. The government has made efforts to try cushion Kenyans from the high cost of living following the Price Control (Essential Goods) Bill signed into law by then President Mwai Kibaki in 2011 to cushion citizens from high cost of living. Last year, and perhaps closest to our hearts, government introduced subsidised maize flour. The government has also slightly reduced payroll taxes that took effect in the beginning of January. PAYE bands will be expanded by 10 per cent as promised in last year’s budget, taxpayers monthly relief will also see an increase in a bid to yield monthly savings depending on a person’s salary. Nairobi is the 75th most expensive city to live in the world. Every item we buy is extremely valuable. On average, Kenyans spend an estimated amount of Sh130,000 on furnishing their homes. Sadly, most live in estates that do not have proper security. A number of them are paying rent or a mortgage for their said home but do not consider any form of insurance to protect anything within their household. The high cost of living has seen more home owners ignore home insurance as it’s seen as an extra cost in the harsh economic times. But, how much do you really lose in the event of an unexpected event such as a fire in your home, theft or damage of property as compared to the cost of paying for a home insurance premium? The cost of insurance is dependent on the value of your property and for home insurance, it’s dependent on the value of items within your house that are covered within your insurance cover. The common worry is the lumpsum cost of the insurance premium. However, what very few Kenyans are aware of is that home insurance can be broken down into monthly installments. With monthly installment payments, customers are able to enjoy lower monthly costs that ensure protection of their valued items throughout the year. According to the Insurance Information Institute, 95 per cent of homeowners in the US have home insurance. Kenya has not gotten to this level of awareness yet, butit is a goal that we must work towards. The writer is CEO Resolution Insurance    