"How would you like it if both of our names had Nyamai at
the end 10 years from now?" Short, cheesy and a little cocky. That was the
'love note' Christine Waiganjo received from her high school flame
years ago. "It was during a music festival, they were called
'funkies'," she says. "It was the only time we got to leave school. Nyamai held my hand and
led me to the nearby canteen, bought me a soda and ice-cream and slipped the
note in to my hand. I didn't read it until later that night, and it was all I
could think about during evening preps. I don't know what is more eye-roll
worthy: That I blushed when I read the cologne-sprayed note in secret, in the
dormitory, or that the boy was so unimaginative that he just lifted lyrics from
the rap section of a song and put them in a note." Christine is married now and her name does not have
Nyamai at the end. She says love letters are not something she writes or
receives from her husband. "Love letters are for old school folks or high school
lovebirds who don't get to see each other often. It's a phase." If high schoolers are still lifting lyrics from songs,
parents should be worried, what with the current crop of songs renting the air.
Think of a boy using the lyrics from the song Particular by Major
Lazer [millenials should know it] and writing, or saying, "I
like you girl in particular... can I see your particulars..." All hope is not lost, though. There are still some
romantics who take their time to express their love in letters. Last week, we called on readers to send love letters, and
the submissions varied from hilarious to heart melting. As the world celebrates Valentine's Day today, we sample
some letters from readers.  AYUB SKIDE TO MAUREEN CHEBET My dear, You very well know that I am not too good with words and
expression when it comes to love, but this does not mean that I do not love
you. You might be complaining, asking why I fail to express myself. However,
you need to understand that my heart is filled with your love, even if I do not
say the right words. You are my true love, even if I do not say 'I love you'
often and I do not kiss you goodnight every night. My world is all about you, even if I do not shower you with gifts like others do. My feelings for you are
all trapped in my heart and I admit that I fail to do things that other people
do. I might have been unable to make you feel loved but in the midst all the
wrongs, I have one right thing: Your love. I thank you for all the love and
affection you have showered me with. Sweetheart, I love you and this comes
straight from my heart. I love you, honey, and our daughter.   GEORGE TO CIKU I
don't say this enough, but I love you. You're the most selfless person I know, and I appreciate how you take care of our son. I know sometimes you wonder
whether I'm serious about our future together, and you ask when I'm going
to put a ring on it. I will. At the right time. Let me hustle and make
us money to give our son a good life, then we'll plan that big wedding you've
always wanted. Until then, just know I value you. George.  MICHAEL TO HIS WIFE Babe, I
love you for all you are and do. I know initially I gave you a hard time before
saying yes to your girlfriend proposal. I had to be sure you were not
a joker. And you weren't. You kept pursuing me until I said yes, and by the
way, I love that you're old school like that, asking me to be your girlfriend.
You're a man of honour. When it was time to take our relationship
to the next level, you approached my brothers and made your intentions
known. When they gave you the go-ahead, you proposed and I obviously
said yes! But little did we know there were battles ahead. Unfortunately, my parents were not amused you were "not one of our own". The battles
we faced made us start rethinking whether we were meant for each other, and your parents became distant towards me because they felt their son
was being mistreated by our family. Long story short, God is a way maker
and the day my dad asked me if I was sure you were the one and I said yes
marked a turnaround in the situation. My dad invited you for a wazees' meeting
and welcomed you to the family. I still don't know how that happened.
All I know is we are here together, five years later, and you have made
me a happy wife and mother. To many more years together. Yours
truly, always and forever.  PETER TO SHARON I'll
keep it short. There's this saying by Bob Marley that goes something like:
"Everyone will hurt you at some point. You just have to find the
ones worth
suffering for." And you are worth it. We go through ups and downs, but
at the end of the day, when it counts, I can count on you to "hold me down
like a short skirt" (wink). Love you, Sharon. Peter
Wakaba  Now, let's go back in time to see what a love letter
looked like. Sample this love letter to a modern wife from Wole Soyinka’s
1962 novel, The Lion and the Jewel.  When we wed, you shall not walk or sit Tethered, as it were, to my dirtied heels Together we shall sit at table – Not on the floor – and eat. Not with fingers, but with knives And forks, and breakable plates Like civilised beings.  I will not have you wait on me Till I have dined my fill. No wife of mine, no lawful wedded wife, Shall eat the leavings off my plate – That is for the children. I want to walk beside you in the street, Side by side and arm in arm Just like the Lagos couples I have seen High-heeled shoes for the lady, red paint On her lips. And her hair us stretched Like a magazine photo. I will teach you The waltz and we’ll both learn the foxtrot And we’ll spend the weekend in night clubs at Ibadan. Oh! I must show you the grandeur of towns We’ll live there if you like or merely pay visits. So choose. Be a modern wife, look me in the eye And give me a little kiss – like this!  LETTER FROM A CONTRACT WORKER     By Antonio JacintoI wanted to write you a lettermy love,a letter that would tellof this desireto see youof this fearof losing youof this more than benevolence that I feelof this indefinable ill that pursues meof this yearning to which I live in total surrender …I wanted to write you a lettermy love,a letter of intimate secrets,a letter of memories of you,of youof your lips red as hennaof your hair black as mudof your eyes sweet as honeyof your breasts hard as wild orangeof your lynx gaitand of your caressessuch that I can find no better here …I wanted to write you a lettermy love,that would recall the days in our hauntsour nights lost in the long grassthat would recall the shade falling on us from the plumtreesthe moon filtering through the endless palm treesthat would recall the madnessof our passionand the bitternessof our separation …I wanted to write you a lettermy love,that you would not read without sighingthat you would hide from from papa Bombothat you would withhold from mama Kiezathat you would reread without the coldnessof forgettinga letter to which in all Kilombono other would stand comparison …I wanted to write you a lettermy lovea letter that would be brought to you by the passing winda letter that the cashews and coffee treesthe hyenas and buffaloesthe alligators and graylingcould understandso that if the wind should lose it on the waythe beasts and plantswith pity for our sharp sufferingfrom song to songlament to lamentgabble to gabblewould bring you pure and hotthe burning wordsthe sorrowful words of the letterI wanted to write to you …I wanted to write you a letter …But oh my love, I cannot understandwhy it is, why, why, why it is, my dearthat you cannot readand I – Oh the hopelessness! – cannot write!Have these love letters inspired you to write one for your love? Go on, do something different for once. Happy Valentine's Day.