British-born Susan Wamucii Kung’u has been fascinated with Africa since she was a teenager. But not until 1973, when she was in her twenties, did she realise her dream after a chance meeting with a young Kenyan man on the underground train in London. After they got married she came to Nairobi in 1975 at 26 years. Her youthful passion for Kenya went on to become a complete immersion in its people and culture. She intended to stay for just a short time but ended up staying, having three children and even giving up her British citizenship. From a childhood in the English countryside to living in semi-rural outskirts of Nairobi, Susan writes her autobiography in an honest, straightforward manner. She raised her family in a wooden home without indoor plumbing for 18 years. She fetched water and charcoal for cooking, and learned to speak Kikuyu, her husband’s mother tongue. But Kenya is also where she found the kind of close-knit, extended family life missing from her unhappy childhood.  She recalls a lonely upbringing in England where family dinners often eaten in silence and her parents eventually separated. Rediscovering her musical talent, Susan played the piano at a local church and went on to became a music teacher at St Mary’s School in Nairobi. Later she trained as a Rudolf Stein educator with the Waldorf Schools. She also achieved some fame as the ‘poster girl’ in an advertisement campaign for the 2009 Kenya national census. Susan is a natural-born storyteller. From bedtime stories for her children, she formed the Kikwata Storytellers to tell traditional stories through music, song and dance. Teaching jobs gave Susan much needed self-sufficiency and widened her social interactions. But matters on the home front were crumbling. Although she does not name him Susan describes the growing tension with her husband who had poor relations with his children, was a heavy drinker and sunk money into unprofitable ventures after he lost his job. On top of financial stress, the loneliness which characterised her childhood returned to plague her adult years. “There is nothing for you here,” said her eldest daughter when Susan talked about possibly leaving her husband.  The couple divorced and a property dispute ensued that became a bitter court case. Nevertheless, the psychological counselling she sought afterwards set her on the road to healing from many years of unhappiness. Life is a Gift is a window into the ups and downs of marriage, and of an individual who makes the best of the way things turn out. It is also the memoir of a woman who found her life’s purpose in a foreign country. In later years, an elderly Kenyan woman nicknamed her Wamucii, meaning ‘the one who belongs to the home’. This is the first book by Ms Kung’u and she intends to release short story collections in the future.  Star Rating: 3/5