First and foremost, it important
to note the ‘swearing-in’ had no constitutional sanction or fiat — at the very
least, it can be termed as a form of expression or civil disobedience. The happenings include the shutdown
of NTV, Citizen Tv, Inooro Tv and KTN live transmission for covering the ceremony;
the Communications Authority dodging and ignoring court orders obtained by
activist Okiya Omtatah requiring it to forthwith switch on the stations; and
ignoring orders obtained by Simba Arati ordering reinstatement of his firearm license;
and, an order releasing Miguna Miguna from custody following his arrest for the
part he played in Raila’s oathing and his controversial deportation to Canada. To lawyers and scholars, the
total disregard to court orders by any person or institution, especially the
government, reduces the whole constitutional structure in Kenya into a farce. Without
the rule of law, there cannot be order or even governance. Ideally, the law, in accordance
with the Constitution, should govern a nation, as opposed to the whims and
emotions of government officials. Because of past violations by
the state in previous regimes, our current legal system allows persons to move
to court via judicial review or constitutional petition when they feel their
rights were violated, or are in danger. Moreover, Article 27 provides
that every person is equal before the law and has the right to equal protection
and equal benefit of the law. Around Africa, Kenya is known
for the democratic space her citizens enjoy — this was further buttressed by
the passage of the 2010 Constitution, which enshrined fundamental rights and
even prescribed how and when they can be limited. Article 24 requires any
limitation to fundamental rights to be clearly written in law, pursue a
legitimate aim and be necessary and proportionate in an open and democratic
society (also referred to as the 3-part test). If you administer this test to
the media shutdown, you will conclude that inasmuch as the state claimed the
legitimate aim of the shutdown was for national security purposes, it does not
satisfy the proportionality and necessity requirement. Switching off the three TV
stations was draconian and disproportional to say the least, and it also denied
millions of Kenyans the right to information, which is a fundamental in any
democratic system. As things stand, there is an
overbearing of uncertainty and a feeling that Kenya’s democratic gains could be
in jeopardy. Feelings that perhaps someone somewhere thinks or genuinely
believes the freedoms Kenyans enjoy are a product of the benevolence of the
state.  The same state that is
established by the very Constitution that enshrined separation of powers and
the Bill of rights. In democratic systems, one does not have the luxury of
cherry picking which provisions to honour and which ones to disregard. NATIONAL
SECURITY Kenya faces an array of
challenges when it comes to national security such as violent robbery, cattle
rustling and terrorism that have over the years caused a lot of pain, death and
misery. The executive, through the National Police Service is constitutionally
mandated to safeguard our lives and property. In doing this, it is
internationally understood that security organs, as a matter of practicability,
must keep certain information to itself, limit access to certain information or
prevent it from reaching the general public. For this reason, the
international community came up with Tshwane Principles — a document authored
by government actors, the security sector experts and civil society
organisations — to guide states in respecting the right to information as well
as safeguard national security. In a nutshell, the principles
affirm that the public has a right of access to government information,
including information from private entities that perform public functions or
receive public funds. It requires the government to prove the necessity
of restrictions on the right to information. Additionally, the government may
legitimately withhold information in narrowly defined areas, such as operation
plans and the operations and sources used by intelligence services, including
the identities of undercover officers/agents. Also, they may withhold
confidential information supplied by foreign governments that is linked to
national security matters. The principles acknowledge that “invocation
of national security may not be relied upon to undermine the fundamental right
of the public to access judicial processes.” Also, the media and the public
should be permitted to challenge any limitation on public access to judicial
processes. However, if such a challenge is successfully done and orders issued
by the courts, the state has no choice but comply. In the shutdown matter, the
courts granted the media houses conservatory orders and directed that the
Communications Authority to switch on the stations. If for some reason the
government strongly believes the contrary, they should have still complied with
the orders and thereafter moved to the Court of Appeal to challenge the High
Court’s conservatory orders, armed with compelling reasons why the media houses
should have remained shut and the specific danger they posed, as per Article 24
(3). This provision requires any person or institution that intends to limit
any rights to give a satisfactory justification. Experts have found that
legitimate national security interests are best protected when the public is
well informed about the state’s activities, including those undertaken to
protect national security.  Kiprono is a senior legal officer –
Civic Space 