Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi are allegedly being used to wreck Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress. Party officials made this claim on Thursday after meetings of the parliamentary group and the National Executive Council. PG chairman Ayub Savula, party Secretary General  Barack Muluka and members Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero) and Ernest Ogesi (Vihiga) said they will not watch as rebels wreck ANC. They claimed the goal is to kill the 2022 presidential ambition of Mudavadi, who is also a principal of the National Super Alliance. "We have solid evidence about the sponsorship of these efforts to tear our party apart and nip in the bud Mudavadi's presidential ambition," Savula said. "The party will exercise options at its disposal in dealing with this matter. You cannot enjoy the benefits of being a member of our party while also working to destroy it. You had better go out there where you rightly belong." Jubilee is positioning Deputy President William Ruto to contest the presidency in the next general election once President Uhuru Kenyatta completes his second and final term. The two are the leaders of Jubilee Party which made inroads in Western and other Opposition strongholds during campaigns for the August 8, 2018 election. The party will meet again next week to take stern disciplinary action against Malala and Osotsi. In quick rejoinder, Malala dismissed the claims that he and Osotsi are Jubilee sympathisers working to take ANC to Uhuru and Ruto. He told The Star on phone that he is not moved by the threats of disciplinary action and will not attend next week's meeting, which he insisted is not properly convened. Malala added Muluka is not ANC Secretary General. In a statement on Thursday, Osotsi accused the politicians of diverting attention from their absence at Nasa boss Raila Odinga's swearing-in as the People's President. "We have the obligation to protect rule of law, democratic governance and electoral justice as Nasa, for which ANC is a founding member, has done," he said. "If we are being punished for our active participation in Nasa, so be it. I will not be intimidated." Related: Raila revamps ODM as NASA stares at acrimonious split Click here for the latest political news