Mumias Sugar Company farmers have been urged to buy their own farm inputs and sugarcane seedlings. The company’s management said seedlings are scarce. With the long rains approaching, the company had hoped to convince many farmers to plant sugarcane, which many abandoned due to poor returns. CEO Nashon Aseka on Wednesday said the company only got enough seedlings for its farms. He urged farmers not wait for contracts with the company as the miller currently cannot afford it. “The company will not charge you with the seedlings expenses when paying your dues after harvesting, which will even make farmers take a lot of money home,” Aseka said. The company’s biggest challenge is the acquisition of enough raw materials. Those to be most affected will be the contracted farmers who have been relying on the company to supply farm inputs like the sugarcane seedlings. “Our main challenge is growing cane in our nucleus farm and trying to convince farmers to help in the same,” Aseka said at the factory premises. The CEO has urged farmers who are capable of footing their farming input expenses to do so as the company’s revival depends on their commitment. “We have urged all our local farmers to keep farming, when the company is fully operational we will contract them,” Aseka said. Some farmers have complained the company is taking too long to pay them for their sugarcane. “The national pricing committee has advised that the miller place the minimal price at Sh3,700,” Aseka said. Currently the miller pays Sh4,200. The miller will from this month pay Sh4,050 per tonne. The CEO said they will keep their prices high to encourage more farmers to plant sugarcane. “We are still the best paying company and we want to keep it that way,” Aseka said. The miller has lost more than half of its contracted farmers. Currently only less than 40,000 supply sugarcane to the factory. The government permitted duty-free sugar imports to meet the country’s deficit, dealing a huge blow to the struggling industry. “For the next one or two years, sugar will still be a problem in this country as most millers are [struggling],” Aseka said.