IS IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati (pictured) doing business with the commission? Corridors is reliably informed that a law firm suspected to be linked with Chebukati is handling many petitions on behalf of the IEBC. It is not clear how the law firm was given the work, but insiders in the commission are pointing out possible conflict of interest and what is seen as unilateral selection of lawyers. STILL at the IEBC, we are told that a meeting of the commission held in Naivasha in December decided to undertake far-reaching internal changes. Among the things, the commissioners want to do is replace CEO Ezra Chiloba and reduce the directorates from the current nine to five. They also plan to reduce the number of managers from 29 to not more than 10. Interestingly, the commissioners, we are told, are not involving the secretariat in their plans. There are no prizes for guessing some of the names targetted. WAS lawyer John Khaminwa being alarmist when he told the court that the failure by the police to arraign Miguna Miguna meant that he was either dead or had been deported? Before the veteran lawyer spoke, there was a strong rumour in town that the self-styled NRM ‘General’ had been deported to Canada, where he is said to hold citizenship. Police sources would not reveal Miguna’s whereabouts, despite pressure from the media and NASA lawyers. So, where is Miguna? A top official in the Mbele iko Sawa campaign is a bitter man after missing out on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet and diplomatic nominations. The man, who loves cold beer served at a Kiambu Road restaurant, said, “During the campaigns, they picked up our calls and provided sufficient money but right now we are strangers. They don’t even pick up calls because they are in power. We will fight back at the right time.” A team of UK-based Kenyans is said to have visited NASA chief Raila Odinga before the swearing-in ceremony. It is said the team urged him to go ahead with the oath and promised to support him establish his government. But just who were the whites who accompanied the Kenyans from Northeastern and who promised the NASA leader full support? IS “Ngirici and Sons Rescue Team” in Kirinyaga trying to outshine Governor Anne Waiguru’s administration? Woman MP Wangui Ngirici’s political star rose when she ran a well-oiled election campaign. But her new Team has been likened to the Sonko Rescue Team, which, at one point, clashed with former Governor Evans Kidero’s administration.