The saga surrounding the ownership of the controversial land started mid last year between the Kogo and Korir families. On October 6 last year, the influential and respected Talai Council of Elders from the Nandi community intervened to resolve the dispute without success. According to Barnabas, the land is theirs. “Karoney may have been duped onto buying it without getting proper facts,” he said. Koiyogi said they respect the CS but regretted that she was misled by some individuals on issues touching on the disputed land. He said instead of fencing the land the minister bought, the workers sent to the area had fenced more land, including a cultural site. Read: I'll crush all land cartels, Farida Karoney pledges during vetting The elders want the dispute resolved amicably and the community’s cultural sites — Kapigor and Kaptibiik — not interfered with. “It should be vivid and clearly understood that trees in the area, particularly the fig tree, should never be cut or interfered with,” Koiyogi  said. elders decide On February 20, four days after the controversial fencing, the elders, led by their chairman James Bassii, met in Kapsisiywa to discuss the dispute and resolved that their October 6 decision still stands. The meeting was also attended by vice chairman and former area councilor Christopher Koiyog, secretary Christopher Agui, and more than 20 members, including Fredrick Songol and Henry Tarus. 1968 sale The elders had established that in 1968, Kogo’s grandparent Maria Kabot had sold eight acres of the land to one Francis Lel at Sh800. At that time, an acre went for Sh100. But Lel later surrendered the eight acres to the Korir family, which owns the adjacent land registered as Nandi/Kamoiwyo 759. In the presence of elders, Mzee Tenai, the father of the Korir brothers, refunded Lel the money and also paid another Sh800 to Maria Kabot to make it Sh1,600 for the 16 acres in dispute. When the dispute started last year, Lel, who is still alive, confirmed at an elders’ meeting that he surrendered the eight acres to the Korir family after he was refunded his Sh800, but the Korirs could not give evidence of their father having paid an extra Sh800 to Kabot or produce witnesses. Read: Nandi elders want Karoney to pull down fence in land row with ex-MCA’s family The elders thus decided that the land be shared, with the Korir’s taking eight acres and Kogo the other eight. “The land LR Nandi/Kamoiwyo 760 was thus to be subdivided and shared between the two families. We made the decision and even gave our decision to the Lands office in Kapsabet,” a resolution by the elders said. It was read by Mzee Agui — the secretary of the Talai Council of Elders, . The elders explained that land LR No Nandi/Kamoiwyo 911, which is riparian, has for several decades been used by the Korir family as a grazing field because it neighbours their land and should remain so. “The Talai Council of Elders condemns in the strongest terms the impunity that was waged against the family of Tenai on February 16, 2018.  They have been occupying the land since time immemorial,” the elders said in a statement. As per the explanation given by the elders, it means Kogo, who sold the land to CS Karoney, only inherited eight acres from his grandmother because she had already sold half of the land to the Korir family. She died in 1995. Documents on the dispute indicate that On September 6 last year, Raymond Jembe — then assistant County commissioner for Chesumei subcounty — chaired a meeting on the same land attended by 15 elders and three chiefs. It was resolved that Kogo and the Korir family share the land based on the resolution of the elders. Kogo is indicated along with Amos Korir and William Korir as having signed an agreement on the sharing of the land before the county boss. Barnabas said that despite being aware that his family bought part of the land, Kogo went ahead with the succession process secretly in 2016, then sold off the entire 16 acres to Karoney in November last year. “I inherited the land legally and they have been blocking me from accessing it. I’m not aware of the sale they are talking of. They have deprived me of my rights over the land for many years,” Kogo said. Barnabas argues that they were surprised when Karoney attempted to take over the land. He said he informed her that the family was opposed to her move to take over the land. “We were ready to go by what the elders had decided — that we share the land, despite the fact that we had paid for the whole of it,” Barnabas said. Section of elders back purchase Another group of elders from the area, led by Paul Tiomik, David Tanui and Thomas Maritim, have, however, defended the transaction between Kogo and the CS, saying it was done procedurally. “People should not drag the CS into this matter to seek sympathy. The truth is that Kogo sold her rightfully owned land to the CS legally,” Tiomik said. Karoney, through her lawyers, on January 23, weeks before she was nominated to the CS docket, filed Civil Suit No 4 of 2018 at the principal magistrate’s court and sued Barnabas, Amos Korir and William Korir for seeking orders to take over the land, which has an estimated value of Sh3 million. In the court documents Karoney says the Korir brothers were occupants of parcel No Nandi/Kamoiywo 759, where they had their homes and were carrying out farming activities. She further says that the Nandi/Kamiywo 911 plot claimed by the Korir family is a riparian reserve designated as a swamp, which is thus public land, and the three brothers were trying to grab it illegally. “In furtherance of an attempted public landgrab, the three have encroached on my client’s land, Nandi/Kamoiywo 760, and they have ignored several demands to cease and desist from the trespass,” a document filed by Karoney’s lawyers in court says. Karoney thus sought orders to stop the Korirs from impeding her use and occupation of the land. In court documents, Karoney claims the Korirs had been occupying and using a different land, which is also a swamp and that it is not part of the Nandi/Kamoiywo plot she bought from Kogo. Before the controversy escalated into a full blown conflict, Kapsabet resident magistrate Kesse Cherono had ruled on February 12 that the district land surveyor and land registrar move to the disputed plot, establish boundaries and fence it. Interestingly, the workers sent to fence the land for the CS fenced off the 16 acres she says she bought, along with the riparian land, which she says is public land. “She accuses us of being grabbers, yet it is her workers who have fenced off everything, including the swamp. That is unacceptable. It’s impunity,” Barnabas said. He adds that they were not aware of the case filed by the CS, yet a lawyer, only identified as one Rotich, appeared on their behalf without their knowledge. “This is open fraud. They used a fake lawyer we never instructed to claim that he was acting for us, to speed up the matter secretly and deprive us of our land,” Barnabas said, adding that the matter was of criminal nature and they had reported it to the DCI. Korir promise battle royal Human rights activist Kipkorir Ngetich says they are independently investigating the matter, but add that the CS should have taken time to establish the truth before buying the land. As things stand, the saga may turn out to be a thorny issue for the new CS. The Korir family has vowed to take the battle to the highest court in the land, if need be. Meanwhile, elders are working overtime behind the scenes to resolve the row. They says it is embarrassing the CS — a mere pawn in an old dispute.  Click here for the latest political news