Nakuru county has partnered with an international water company to end shortage of the commodity. Dutch firm Vitens Evides International will donate Sh372 million to fund three local water companies to boost their capacities and professionalise their services. VEI leaders on Friday met with Governor Lee Kinyanjui together with directors of Nawasco, Naruwasco and Naivass to sign the deal. "I'm happy because the partnership will ensure there is enough water for both domestic and industrial use," Kinyanjui said. A team of VEI, Managing Directors from Nawasco, Naruwasco and Naivass paid a courtesy call to Governor Lee Kinyanjui's office and discuss the partnership and end water end water shortage in the region. “I'm happy for the partnership. VEI will fund projects under the three water companies to the tune of 3 million euros (Sh372 million) Water is crucial especially for housing and industrialization that the county will initiate and also benefit from under the Big Four Agenda by the national government,” said the Governor. He added that due to influx of population in the county for the last seven years, solving the water shortage in the county will attract investment. “One of the initiatives is through drilling of additional boreholes that will provide adequate safe water for use by all. The sites for drilling boreholes to provide safe water in Naivasha have been identified and we will initiate a process to start the project,” said Kinyanjui. He added “We are also keen on working with investors whose initiatives will help improve sanitation and environment conservation,”. He welcomed an initiative by NAWASSCO and partners to process human waste into safe fuel that can be used in homes instead of charcoal. This initiative not only enhances waste management but also helps in conserving the environment as it offers an alternative to charcoal. Under the project that runs in NAWASCO’s Old Town treatment plant at Lake Nakuru, human waste is processed and mixed with sawdust and molasses to produce smokeless briquettes used to light jikos.