Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has named environmentalists who will form the task force on forest management. The team will determine the extent of environmental degradation and give recommendations. “The appointment of this Rapid Results Task Force provides a much-needed foundation for a multi-sectoral action plan," he said at the unveiling in Nairobi on Tuesday. "I look forward to receiving their report and recommendations at the earliest opportunity." The Task-force will be chaired by Green Belt Movement Chairperson Marion Wakanyi and Environment Institute of Kenya Vice Chairperson Linda Munyao. Members include Kenya Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga and Isaac Kalua of the Kenya Water Towers Agency. Other are prominent corporate lawyer and KCB Bank Director Adil Khawaja; Duncan Kimani, who is Chairman of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance Environment, Water & Natural Resources Sector; Cotu official Ernest Nadome and lawyers Faith Waigwa and Gideon Kilakoi. The exercise will also involve public sector representatives from the Interior, Water and Lands ministries and the Council of Governors. Tobiko said the panel has been established with clear terms of reference and that its report should be presented in 14 days. "The task force is expected to undertake a ground-based fact-finding survey,” he said. The CS said the government will provide all the resources the team requires to finishes its work as soon as possible. The naming of the task force follows a directive by Deputy President William Ruto for logging activities at all public and community forests to be stopped for 90 days. Read: Ruto stops timber harvesting at all forests for 90 days Deforestation, degradation and
encroachment of water towers and other catchment areas, coupled with
uncontrolled human activities including wanton logging, have
threatened and undermined the country’s capability to ensure food
security. The destruction has also resulted in water crises. More on this: We'll demand EACC audit if Kwale water shortage persists, says MP Tayari Read more Water crisis: Hundreds of Baringo schools face closure as drought persists Click here for the latest political news