Stakeholders in the Lands sector have shielded the county governments from being stripped off powers of approving land use plans in the country. They have told Parliament to make changes to the proposed Physical Planning Bill 2017, saying that it undermines the spirit of devolution by seeking to revert approval function back to the national government. The Architectural Association of Kenya and National Lands Commission says the bill which is sponsored by the national government through House Majority Leader Aden Duale, will create confusion and conflict in land use planning. They argue the bill undermines devolution by flouting the provisions in the Constitution. The Association’s Town Planners Chapter chairperson Juliet Rita told the National Assembly Lands Committee that land planning should be fully devolved by creating departments manned by directors. “Planning dictates economic growth in national and county level. Planning should be a fully-fledged department at the county level. Once established, these departments will enable full devolution of the planning function,” Rita said. But Tiganie East MP Josphat Kabeabea told the committee through sessional chair Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia) that the planning function should be reverted to the national government. “Issues of planning are sensitive and these powers channeled to counties are too much. Devolving such a function is dangerous because most counties are political,” Kabeabea said. On Wednesday, NLC Chairman Muhammad Swazuri told the committee chaired by Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), termed the Bill as retrogressive. “The confusion is that the director of physical planning in the ministry of lands still approves land use planning. But those who understands the Law takes them to the county assemblies for approval,” he said. “Parliament should consider comprehensive overhaul of the Bill taking into consideration the Commission’s views in this memorandum. Instead of solving the problem, it has adds more confusion.” The chairman said the Bill disregards and conflicts with the County Governments Act 2012, the Urbarn Areas and Cities Act 2011, the National Land Commission Act 2012 and the Environment and Land Court Act 2011. “The Bill, in its current state, is a recipe for confusion and conflict in land use, development and management,” he said. Click here for the latest political news    