Monkeys destroy Sh720 million food in Murang’a every year, Governor Mwangi wa Iria has said. He said the county has been invaded by more than 200,000 monkeys, each consuming at least a quarter kilogramme of food daily. The monkeys reproduce rapidly, increasing the rate of crop destruction, wa Iria said yesterday. “These monkeys are our biggest challenge in food security. If they are not controlled, they can cause serious damage,” he told provincial administrators in Kenol, Murang’a. The county chief said there is increased human-wildlife conflict in the drought, as the monkeys compete for food with residents. The county has distributed traps to farmers to rid their farms of the animals. Last week, wa Iria distributed 300 traps in Gatanga subcounty, the worst-hit area. Farmers trapped more than 100 monkeys on Monday and Tuesday last week. They were taken back to the Aberdare Forest and released. Wa Iria has said he is working with the provincial administration and the Kenya Wildlife Service to establish the best ways of handling the monkeys. KWS says trapping wildlife is its mandate and worries the monkeys may be injured or killed. WaI ra expressed concerns that the monkeys may deplete crops if their invasion is not halted. The county gives maize seeds to farmers every season to increase food production. But all this may be destroyed by the primates if they are not returned to their rightful habitats, wa Iria said. “We can’t sit back and watch our food being destroyed by animals,” the governor said. BAR LICENCES WITH BARCODES Meanwhile, wa Iria announced the county will reduce the number of outlets selling alcohol. He has formed a committee of subcounty administrators, members of the provincial administration and community members to vet bars that will be licensed. “We have introduced new licences with barcodes that will be identifiable through a machine to stop those using counterfeit licences,” he said. Murang’a East deputy county commissioner Kepha Marube said the provincial administration will strictly implement the logging ban to conserve the environment. Most forests, especially the Aberdare Forest, are on the verge of depletion because of logging and the ban will help them regrow, he said. “We’ll also work together with the county government to plant as many trees as possible when the rains come,” Marube said.