Kariobangi Sharks’ club captain and centre half Erick Juma will stay out longer after it emerged that he will undergo another surgery after hurting his leg in a recovery training. Juma missed the better part of last season after undergoing a left leg surgery and was on the verge making a return to action this season, However, it was confirmed that he will undergo another cut after hurting his right leg again. Kariobangi Sharks’ head coach William Muluya confirmed Juma’s worrying situation, which he termed as unfortunate. “It’s unfortunate Juma will have to undergo another surgery this time on his right leg. He hurt his limb while he was working on his recovery from the first injury. It comes a time when we expected him to fully return from the long lay-off but we wish him a speedy recovery.” In his absence, right back Geoffrey Shivekha will maintain the captain’s armband which he wore from the time Juma picked the first injury. Meanwhile, Muluya has lauded the team’s achievement realised thus far in the new season. Being their second season in the Kenya Premier League, Muluya said they have had a better start compared to that of last season. “We have done well so far and we are yet to lose a match. If you look at our last season’s three matches, we had zero points but this time we have five points and that’s good progress for us. Many people predicted a struggle for us in the absence of Masoud Juma but we are still scoring goals. Here, it’s all about teamwork and I am happy the boys are on point. I know I was the coach of the season and several players in the club were voted the best in different categories. That doesn’t put anyone under pressure. We all work as a team in achieving a common goal. The team is performing and we would like to apply the same force in all our matches” Sharks opened their season with a 1-0 win over Nzoia Sugar before drawing 2-2 with Vihiga United in their second match. The GOtv runners up rattled Chemelil Sugar to a one all draw in their third match.