It is 7PM in Rivarori, a red soiled market in Gachie, Kiambu County. The sleepy market stirs to life as families scramble for available few vegetables in the market. A bunch of kale commonly known as Sukumawiki which normally retails at five Shillings is now going for Sh15. A middle aged lady rests on a wooden vegetable shed. 'I have walked all the way from Ridgeways Mall along Kiambu Road. That has now become my daily ritual in order to save money to buy enough vegetables for my family of four,'' said Helen Miheso,a domestic worker. Helen is now spending at least Sh80 daily on four bunches of Sukumawiki and two tomatoes up from Sh30 in December last year. A two kilogramme packet of maize flour is now retailing at an average price of Sh115 up from Sh90 in December when government subsidy was called off. 'Bus fare and mobile phone airtime are not a priority to me anymore.I use that money to boost my grocery and kerosene budget. Life is getting more expensive,'' she lamented. Miheso's story mirrors the daily struggles of millions of Kenyans who have been forced to adjust daily expenditure to cope with the high cost of living. Last month cost of living rose to 4.83 per cent from 4.50 per cent in December, where it touched a 55-month high, driven by higher prices of food, electricity and fuel. Pundits have predicted an further increase in inflation rate this month as drought persist Last year, the government declared drought a national disaster with 1.2 million Kenyans in 23 out of 47 counties facing starvation. UN nutrition surveys showed that Turkana north as well as parts of Marsabit and Mandera Counties had global acute malnutrition (GAM) rates above 30 per cent – double the emergency threshold. Yesterday, Kenya Red Cross appealed to Kenyans to donate to the emergency food basket at detailed emerged that 3.4 million Kenyans in six counties have no food. Speaking to the Star on phone from Khartoum, Sudan, the newly elected Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said the country has three million bags of maize in its reserves. ''We have enough food in our reserves. We have also paid maize farmers up to 75 per cent and will be finalising payments of Sh2.4 billion by next week. However, the drought is still persisting, affecting yields in arid and semi arid areas. We have to feed that population and we already have some rice from China,'' said Kiunjuri.