The Government of Kenya sold $2b worth of Eurobonds last week. The $1b 10 Year Bond was priced at 7.25% versus an initial price guidance of 7.625% and the $1b 30 Year Bond was priced at 8.25% versus 8.625% initial guidance. Investors placed $14b worth of orders which was a solid Outcome considering that the Road-show was buffeted by a Moody's downgrade (Moody's downgraded Kenya's debt rating to B2 from B1) and by the news that the IMF had choked off access to a $1.5b facility (The funds, approved by the IMF in March 2016, were available for Kenya to access if it faced “exogenous shocks”). Kenya is the third African Issuer this Year. Egypt and Nigeria each attracted $12 billion of orders when they sold $6.5 billion of debt between them last week. Egypt's 10 Year Bond was sold at 6.59% and Nigeria at 6.5%. There is more to come from the continent with Cote D'Ivoire (expected to sell Euro-denominated debt) Ghana is apparently looking for $2b and South Africa, Senegal and Angola also slated to sell. The flurry of issuance adds to an already-record debt tally for sub-Saharan Africa, which has ballooned to over $200b from less than $30b in 2007, Bank for International Settlements data shows. The Government of Kenya might well tap these bonds in short order and sell up to a further $1b. At that point, we will have ''maxed'' out the Eurobond market. I am of the view that the net proceeds need to be put to work transparently and effectively. The Economy needs an Adrenaline shot. Private sector credit growth is still close to zero and the credit crunch is real. Razia Khan [chief Africa economist at Standard Chartered] told the Financial Times' John Aglionby that the “need for fiscal consolidation is fully realised” at the Finance Ministry. “Whether this is taken on board by all actors in Kenya is a different matter,” she said. “There will have to be a broader buy-in that this is the way to go.” Treasury CS Henry Rotich said he would curb spending and boost revenue to reduce the budget deficit from 8.9 per cent last June to 4 per cent by June 2021 and “come up with a package of reforms that will help us get out of the current (interest rate cap) arrangement so we can extend credit to the private sector." Rotich has to wield the Knife and will have to walk the talk because we are now running out of road. Take a look at Zambia if you want to see what happens when you reach the end of the road. Jan Mikkelsen, the IMF’s Kenya resident representative, said the two reforms were “key” to extending the facility. The IMF has been a solid cheerleader of Kenya Incorporated. We are now boxed in and we cannot afford to lose the IMF precautionary facility. The markets have given us the benefit of the doubt but to assume it will do so again is a sub-optimal trade. “We don’t need the IMF resources at the moment but we need a precautionary or insurance arrangement,” Rotich said. “So we’d definitely like to continue with the same facility.” Ronak Gopaldas in an article captioned ''For vulnerable African countries, a reliance on Chinese financing could pose a threat to sovereignty'' speaks to ‘debt-trap diplomacy’ – a predatory system designed to ensnare countries into a straightjacket of debt servitude. Brahma Chellaney, in a 2017 article for Project Syndicate, explains that Chinese loans are collateralised by strategically important natural assets with high long-term value (even if they lack short-term commercial viability). This is the point, we have surged our borrowing but the assets in which we invested are evidently lacking in short-term viability. We now need to be seized of the need to make our investments viable and quickly. 