Once during lunch with my friends Wycliffe Muga and Charles Njonjo, I explained how diplomats in Nairobi helped me escape the hangman’s noose from a possible conviction on fabricated political charges of treason and robbery with violence. I also narrated how these diplomats’ countries had hosted my family for many years in exile, when they could not stay in Kenya due to political hostility from Daniel Moi’s government. Njonjo then asked me what I had done to thank these good Samaritans who had been so hospitable and supportive of my personal freedom, survival of my family and our country’s struggle for democracy and the rule of law. Embarrassingly, I had to admit that I had not hosted a party or reunion with our friends and supporters in other countries, who had done so much to save our souls and assist our country to restore democracy and freedom. While apologising for my failure to organise a get-together with all the people who had helped me and Kenya, I must take this opportunity to profusely thank all those non-Kenyans who helped us throw off the yoke of dictatorship for their generosity and solidarity, without which our struggle for democracy would have been a lot more difficult. And while I wait to pay my unpaid historical debt of thanking these friends, I take this opportunity to state that while some diplomats supported tyranny in our country during our First and Second Liberation struggles, many of them were our friends, not enemies. In any case, who wants to antagonise diplomats who are their countries’ bridges with our country, when we know no country can be an island or afford unnecessary enmity with other states? One of our leaders’ responsibilities is to foster diplomatic friendship with other countries, without whom we cannot trade or survive from lack of the many things we don’t produce. When I attended school in Kenya and America, I learnt the value of freedom and justice, and how life is meaningless without them. I also learnt that fighting for these values was a sacred duty I must never try to evade. Further, I heard Western leaders claim they stood for freedom and the East for its negation. So, when I stood up to fight for democracy in this country, I expected the West to stand with me. However, for many years I languished in jail and detention camps fighting for democracy and freedom, the West said not a word of support. Instead, as colonial powers, the Western countries were accused of supporting African dictatorships and elimination of African heroes such as Patrice Lumumba, Tom Mboya, JM Kariuki and Thomas Sankara. The West was also accused of looking on as genocide unfolded to its full in Rwanda. Of late, we have also observed Western diplomats go quiet when US President Donald Trump hurled unprintable insults against Haiti and African countries. But many times, when I sat in my daily 23-hour solitary confinement in the cells of arbitrary detention and maximum security prisons of Manyani, Shimo La Tewa and Kamiti, I asked myself where the West was and why it was so quiet when freedom and democracy were being trampled on and massacred. In these circumstances, in the beginning of the 1990s, it was gratifying to see Western diplomats make statements in support of democratic changes in Kenya, and even come to court to express their solidarity with those of us who faced fabricated capital charges of treason and robbery with violence — not that we had committed these crimes but because we had dared to demand freedom and justice. When diplomats speak in support of certain positions — political or economic — they do not become enemies or friends of either opposition or the government. Rather, we should support and encourage their debate with us, explaining to them our position and why we agree or disagree with them. There is little doubt that because the West, or even China, is also benefactor of many African dictatorships, when it keeps quiet in the face of oppression, terror, torture, massacres and genocide, silence is taken to mean support of continued perpetration, while speaking against is feared because it could herald discontinuation of aid, which it should. After all, as democrats, principally, we should not expect Western diplomats to support our dictatorships. Equally, we should not expect them to support their countries’ aid to us and, at the same time, support our leaders’ corruption, stealing that very aid their taxpayers have so painfully raised. Diplomats should not fear or stop criticising us in good faith.        