Denmark plays a key role in the Turkana Wind Power project. Danish Ambassador Mette Knudsen speaks about the project, its challenges and benefits to Kenya and Loiyangalani, as well as the region's security and stability, refugees, human rights and Kenya-Denmark economic relations.  Q. The Lake Turkana Wind Power Project is expected to be Africa’s largest. How will Kenya gain from this initiative? A. It is a fantastic project, the largest investment project in the country. It consists of 365 wind turbines that will provide 310 megawatts, which correspond to about 17 per cent of electricity consumption in Kenya. As soon as it is connected to the national grid, it will dramatically improve the availability of electricity. The turbines have been ready since March last year and the challenge now is to have them connected to the grid through a proper transmission line. We have spoken with the government on ways to speed up construction of the line, which has had some delays, but we hope it will soon be up and running. The Danish Investment Fund has about 6 per cent investment in the project, and it is our company, Vestas, that delivered the turbines. The project is about much more than a specific investment. It is a showcase project for Kenya and Africa and goes ahead to demonstrate to the world that Kenya is open for business. It is thus very important that it be finalised, and I am happy, that it now seems a new contractor has been found, who has promised to finish the transmission line this year.  Q. How will the local community in Loiyangalani benefit? A. First, the region has already benefitted from the road that has been constructed as part of the project. About the local community, where the turbines have been erected, they have had good opportunities for finding jobs, and part of the funding goes to them through provision of water, improving schools and helping the village, which had to move, with new accommodation for the people. There is a lot the project has done to ensure the community benefits. Of course, there are challenges that come with such a huge project in such a remote area. Maybe the expectations are too high and it takes a while before the benefits are seen, but overall, it has been done well. There is the ongoing court case regarding the land rights, which of course has to be finalised and respected. My impression is that the local people are satisfied with the project.  Q. Denmark also has interest in the security and stability around the Horn of Africa. There is the unending debate on whether Kenya should withdraw from Somalia. What is your take? A. Denmark, as the rest of the international community, appreciates Kenya’s commitment to help solve the issues in Somalia, and we respect the losses the forces have suffered. It is important that for continued stabilisation of Somalia, the regional countries, including Kenya, stay engaged to ensure the transfer of the responsibility of securing Somalia to their security forces takes place gradually, corresponding to their ability to take over. That said, it is the responsibility of the Somali government to do their utmost to function as a government and have control over their territory and focus on building their own ability to take care of their security. We cannot continue forever, as the international community, or the countries in Amisom, to take care of Somali security. It has to be their own responsibility.  Q. What is your take on the ongoing post-election political stalemate? A. First, on what should be done or who should compromise on what, is for the Kenyan actors to decide. I think the EU Observation report on the 2017 election should be read with an open mind, since it has valuable recommendations that everyone can benefit from. But mainly, it is for the Kenyans to try and find a way out. There does seem to be a need for some kind of conversation or dialogue, since it is clear to everybody that the election left many people frustrated, and there are divisions in this country that need to be bridged. From my point of view, it is about how you can have policies that benefit everybody. Continuing with devolution could be part of what could change the overall political dynamic. We are very pleased as Denmark to be able to support the devolution process; for example, through our support to primary health care. I would also wish to see more vocal women on both sides engaged in finding solutions that address the real issues. The interview was conducted on January 24, 2018.