The government took over the reins of power when it shutdown three TV stations over Raila Odinga's swearing-in, Kiambu politicians have said. The Interior ministry says the stations will remain down until investigations on Nasa's ceremony are concluded. They were shut for defying an order against covering the event that took place at January 30, while president Uhuru Kenyatta was in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. More on this: Restore TVs shut down over Raila 'oath', journalists tell government Politicians who support the shutdown include governor Ferdinand Waititu, Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Jonah Mburu (Lari), Jude Jomo (Kiambu Town), Patrick Wainaina (Thika Town) and speaker Stephen Ndichu. They said the move showed deputy president WIlliam Ruto is ready to take over leadership when Uhuru finishes his second term in 2022. Kuria caused laughter when he said that while he supported the clampdown, he had 'beef' with Ruto as he had to cancel a "very important" event at Uhuru Park. Kuria and other members of the Nairobi Business Community were to hold a free medical camp, which the lawmaker noted was to be covered live. "I hope you will arrange for me to be compensated since everything was in place," he told the government. He and the others spoke in Gatukuyu, Gatundu North sub-county, on Thursday, when they accompanied Ruto to the launch of the 15 km Gatukuyu-Mataara road. Ichungwa said: "Your excellency, you showed leadership and we are now asking you and the president to concentrate on building our country and uniting our people as we handle Raila and his people." The speaker said that due to the move, Kenyans have enjoyed peace in a situation that would have been filled with "unnecessary anxiety", had the stations been allowed to air the event. Ndichu added Kenyans have been awed by Ruto's show of leadership for the last three days and are eagerly awaiting his rule after the next presidential election. "As far as the presidency is concerned, the die is cast and you can rely on the support of the Mt Kenya region," he told the DP. Ndichu, who left the county speaker's forum to attend the function, further informed Ruto that they agreed to rally all MCAs to support him. But local and international leaders have condemned the shutdown and asked the government to lift it. Journalists have protested while the civil society is planned nationwide demonstrations against what they term a "rogue state". More on this: Activists plan demos against 'rogue state' after media shutdown Click here for the latest political news