Former Celtic and Manchester United midfielder Liam Miller has died aged 36 after losing his battle with pancreatic cancer. Reports emerged in November that Miller had been battling pancreatic cancer and was receiving treatment in the United States, before returning home to Cork to begin chemotherapy. The father-of-three, who also played for Hibernian, Leeds and Sunderland, passed away just four days short of his 37th birthday. Celtic, his first club, said: 'Everyone at #CelticFC is deeply saddened to hear of the passing of former midfielder Liam Miller. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends at this time. RIP Liam, YNWA.' Miller made his professional debut for the Hoops in 2000 after coming through the youth ranks at Parkhead and helped them win the Scottish Premier League title in 2004. He then moved south to Manchester United on a free transfer, making 22 appearances under Sir Alex Ferguson in two seasons - which included a spell on loan at Leeds - before joining Sunderland in 2006. Miller was part of the Black Cats' squad that won promotion to the Premier League in 2007 but he was on the move again in 2009, this time to QPR. A short spell at Loftus Road was followed by stints at Hibernian, Australian clubs Perth Glory, Brisbane Roar and Melbourne City, home-town club Cork City and, most recently, Wilmington Hammerheads. Miller won 21 caps for the Republic of Ireland after making his debut in 2004. Last night his former team mates paid tribute to the popular midfielder. Former Celtic player Stiliyan Petrov wrote on Twitter: 'I'm deeply saddened to hear of the passing of my friend and old team mate Liam Miller. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends. RIP my friend.' Petrov, 38 and now retired, returned to football in 2016 having recovered from acute leukaemia, four years after being diagnosed with the disease. Ex Celtic striker Chris Sutton added: 'Terribly sad news about Liam Miller. Taken too young. Thoughts go out to his family.' Mark Burchill, who also played for Celtic, added: 'Can't believe my old team mate Liam Miller has passed away today..taken far too soon..horrific news..thoughts and prayers with his family at this time.' Former Sunderland team mate Kevin Kilbane wrote on Twitter: 'Sad hearing the awful news that Liam Miller has passed away this evening, taken far too soon by a terrible disease. Proud to have shared a dressing room with him over the years.' Kevin Doyle, who also played with Miller for the Republic of Ireland, tweeted: 'Extremely sad news. Rest in peace Liam Miller, a gentleman.'