Nakuru county failed to remit Sh131.4 million to the Central Bank of Kenya in 2016-17, the EACC has said in a report. The Report on Corruption Risk Assessment of the Nakuru Executive and County Assembly was released yesterday by EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala. It says the county collected Sh1.2 billion through six banks, but only remitted Sh1.1 billion. “The county failed to remit all its commercial revenue to the CBK as required, hence may result [in] embezzlement of revenue and lead to financial loss,” the report reads. All revenue collected through commercial banks should be remitted to a county’s revenue account with the CBK within five working days in compliance with regulations. The report was presented to Governor Lee Kinyanjui, speaker Maina Kairu and other county officials. It resulted from a corruption risk assessment carried out last year between June 26 and August. It involved revenue mapping as far as financial management is concerned at the county level using information from the internal audit committee. Public complaints The EACC received 371 complaints about the Nakuru county government — 168 in 2017, 172 in 2016 and 131 in 2015. The majority of the complaints were mainly on bribery, procurement irregularities, fraudulent acquisition and disposal of public property and abuse of office. “The revenue analysis report for May 2017 did not indicate the revenue collected from allocation of parking spaces for matatus within the Nakuru central business district. This was despite there being matatus parked within the CBD,” the report said. The county executive did not establish a system for allocation of matatu parking spaces or classified parking fees in relation to the revenue sources, it says. This created an avenue for extortion from saccos and bribery for allocation of parking spaces. Under the administration of Kinuthia Mbugua, now the State House controller, the county did not have an audit committee. The report says the internal auditor was reporting to the Finance and Planning chief officer — administratively and functionally. “These anomalies can interfere with the independence of the internal audit function. They may also create difficulties in ensuring the audit reports are presented and fully implemented,” it says. The executive used cash imprest to buy some goods and services amounting to Sh30,000, the report says. Wabukala said this violated the law and might provide an opportunity for use of cash imprests to purchase low-quality items at inflated costs. The EACC wants the executive to prepare implementation plans for the recommendations. The county has to submit the plans to the EACC offices within a month. The EACC said it will monitor the progress. Kinyanjui said his office will form an implementation committee next week. He said the executive will work closely with the assembly. Click here for the latest political news