At least 271,000 houses are set to be sprayed against Malaria infection in Homa Bay County from tomorrow. The 36-day exercise will see 271,233 houses sprayed with drugs for killing female Anopheles mosquito that causes malaria. The Sh400million exercise will cover all 40 Wards of the county. The project is conducted in partnership between Homa Bay County Government and a US organization, the American Indoor Residual Spraying (AIRS). Read; Major diseases, conditions that kill children before their fifth birthday Speaking when he launched the programme at the county headquarters on Friday, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti said the programme will prevent deaths resulting from malarial infection. “Malaria has become a burden by killing many people in this county. We do not expect similar infections to reoccur this year after the spray is completed,” Awiti said. The Governor said the worst affected persons are expectant women and children below five years of age. According to the Governor, 91 people died of Malaria in 2017 in the county. Awiti said at least 259,000 expectant women and 110,000 children below the age of fives were infected with Malaria in the same year. “The residual spraying will kill the vector which transmits malaria and I believe it will enhance well being of Homa Bay people for production,” he added. Also read: Homa Bay ‘leads’ in HIV infections The County Chief said the programme will provide employment for the residents and improve their living standards. “We have already recruited and trained 1579 mobilizers and 836 to provide labour in the project. These are locals who will earn wages from the project,” he added. Awiti who was accompanied by his deputy Hamilton Orata reiterated his government commitment to work closely with the national government and development partners in curbing fighting against diseases in the county. “We’ve to collaborate with other partners to ensure adequate funding for the success of some major projects,” he added. AIRS’ Bradley Longman called on the area residents to support the project. “This is an important project to Homa Bay people. Let them welcome and support it to transform their lives,” he said. Longman urged the locals to sleep under treated mosquito nets to reduce the prevalence of malaria. “The region is under Malaria endemic zone where its transmission occurs frequently hence the high burden of the disease,” Longman said.  Click here for the latest political news