Kenya’s Caf Confederation Cup representatives AFC Leopards jet out today for Madagascar ahead their return leg match against Fosa Juniors after the government secured air tickets for the 25-members traveling party. Leopards had threatened to withdraw from the tournament due to their inability to raise funds estimated at Sh7 million for the trip, but after successful pleas to the government, the club will now honour the match away to the Island nation. Club chairman Dan Mule was a happy man after the government responded to his request of financial assistance and revealed that he had already dispatched a team of officials to spy on the ground and for logistical purposes. Mule disclosed that the government paid tickets for 25 people, six less than what they had factored in their budget to the government. Despite the government catering for the tickets, the cash-strapped club will have to incurred costs in accommodation, which Mule said forced them to borrow cash to cater for. The administrator thanked the government for their timely response and pledged to work towards bringing a sponsor on board to take care of their future financial obligations. “We are grateful to the government for raising 25 air tickets for us in deed, they have saved us from the shame of withdrawing from the tournament. We wanted 31 members to travel but we have to slice the traveling group. I have already sent two officials to spy on the ground and to fine tune on the logistics,” said Mule. Mule said he was hopeful that the hosts will repay the favours they accorded them during the first leg encounter in Kakamega where they paid for air tickets from Nairobi to Kakamega. He revealed that the match will be played more than 200km from Antananarivo and Caf statutes require home teams to fly their guests should the match venue be more than 100km from the capital city. “We paid their air tickets and we expect them to do the same for us. It’s a requirement by CAF and we expect them to comply. I can confirm the match will be played away from Antananarivo.” While the financial part is sorted, the pressure to deliver lies in the hands of the technical bench and the playing unit. Leopards are in a must win or high-scoring draw situation after surrendering their 1-0 advantage to draw 1-1 in the first leg at Bukhungu Stadium.