ODM’s move to revamp itself and its lieutenants launching vicious attacks on the three NASA principals has been described as an exit strategy from the coalition. Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC, Kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper and Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford Kenya members have expressed concern ODM is mudslinging their leaders to break from NASA as a leeway to field a presidential candidate in 2022 poll. According to the coalition agreement, Raila and his ODM party are not supposed to field a candidate in 2022. “Raila is trying to reinvent himself for 2022 and the only way is to exit NASA. This is not a party that is in NASA at all,” Mudavadi’s aide Kibisu Kabatesi told the Star yesterday on the phone. no commitment? However, ODM chairman and National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi said there are no differences that warrant a split. “There is no differences in NASA and I’m not aware of any. I would not comment on such matters. Let’s get back to work by looking at the state of our economy, especially how Jubilee’s over-borrowing is creating public debt,” he said. Officials of the three parties cite the Uhuru Park swearing-in of Raila that his co-principals skipped as part of ODM’s strategy to plan an exit. The ghosts of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula’s absence during the ceremony that was part of NASA’s push for electoral justice continue to haunt them. ODM members have criticised the three, terming them cowards and questioning their commitment to NASA. ODM members still mount pressure on Kalonzo to take oath to deputise Raila as the People’s President in affirming his solidarity with NASA’s course of electoral justice. Read:Is Raila planning to leave Nasa ahead of 2022 election? “There should be no misconception that Kalonzo, Wetang’ula and Mudavadi are planning to gang up against Raila. The reality is that Raila and ODM are planning to exit NASA,” Kabatesi said. “The planning of the Uhuru Park swearing-in was deliberate because they knew other co-principals will not be there. You saw what they said during the ODM National Governing Council the other day and the sharing of parliamentary positions.” Wiper said its party will hold a delegates meeting on March 16 in Nairobi’s Komarock area to audit its position in the opposition coalition. The 10,000 delegates from across the country will include the clergy, party officials and opinion shapers in Ukambani and Nairobi. Also Read:Nasa troubles a case of 'normal sibling rivalry', says Raila Click here for the latest political news