Mjambere
MCA Fahad Kassim claims he's being frustrated by "powerful forces" in and outside the Mombasa Assembly. Kassim, who is chairman of the Transport, Infrastructure and Public Works Committee, said their meetings have been cancelled two times without reason. He complained in a WhatsApp group of MCAs called 'Bunge Letu 001' and shared the messages with The Star. "Good morning chairman Babady (Mohamed Hatimi), Majority Leader (Khamis Mwidani) and Deputy Speaker (Fadhili Makarani)," he wrote in the group on Monday morning. "I ... want to call a meeting with my committee. Agenda, street lighting... Our people are suffering and [insecure] due to lack of lighting. Can I [call a meeting]? Or you are going to cancel the meeting again? The gods of Mombasa County Assembly. Waiting for your reply today or let the war begin officially." The MCA has been at odds with Mombasa leaders after failing to secure ward development funds, bursaries and car loans for all members. He has threatened to throw his resignation letter "in someone's" face because "I can't be a rubber stamp to approve whatever the executive says” and warned "you are dealing with
a wrong person". Read: My life in danger after demands for ward money - Mombasa MCA Also read: MCA-elect Kassim accusses Mwabashiri of destroying lights Hatimi
dismissed Kassim when reached for comment and said he did not follow procedures. "If
his meetings are being cancelled, does he solve it through the press?
Tell him to follow the procedure," he said on phone. Makarani
noted governance by orders. "If his meeting has been
cancelled, he should check why. Why is he going to the press yet he
knows what ought to be done but is not doing it? Do standing orders say if a meeting is stopped you
rush to the press? He must follow the procedure." Makarani further said he is just a committee member who cannot influence anything. "How
many meetings which are called happen? Why is it that only his are
being cancelled?" Makarani posed. But Kassim said: "As
the chairman, you just call or text your committee clerk and ask for
a meeting," he said, claiming he's being targeted because has refused to be a 'yes-sir' type. "And
if you think you can stop or frustrate me by playing petty games,
then I'm sorry to say that you are dealing with a wrong person this time.
I would rather throw a resignation letter in your face than be a rubber
stamp MCA and a 'yes-sir' chairman," he posted. His
fight with fellow MCAs is reminiscent of the first assembly when leaders were seriously divided and at one point fought
physically. Most
of those who threw punches and were at odds with Governor Hassan
Joho's administration did not make it back. They
include Jabez Oduor who lost the Senator race and former MCAs Riziki Fundi
(Bamburi), Mohamed Ndanda (Kadzandani), Duncan Onyango (Mikindani), Abdalla Kasagamba (Likoni), Caroline Owino (Nominated) and
Paul Onje (Junda). Click here for the latest political news