President Uhuru Kenyatta has no option but to dialogue with NASA in order to cool political temperatures, NASA co-principal Moses Wetang’ula has said. Wetang’ula said the country was bleeding with problems and the only way out was to sit down and seek a political solution. “We want to cool down the political temperatures in the country which if not handled well will escalate into something else, Uhuru Kenyatta has not option but just this," Wetangula said. "Kenyans are murmuring and wondering the direction the country is going and unfortunately Uhuru does not see. This means he is not fit to be President,” he said. Read: Uhuru rules out dialogue as Raila digs in He wondered why the Jubilee government had resorted in using barbaric means to tame the opposition. “We can’t have a government which deprives leaders of their security details and say everything was going on well,” he said. He castigated Sirisia MP John Waluke(Jubilee) who had told the mourners that Wetangula had missed Raila’s swearing in on January 30 at Uhuru Park because he was warming up towards Jubilee. “I want to state here and categorically that NASA is as united as before and that’s why you saw the four principals together even after the Uhuru Park swearing in ceremony,” Wetang’ula said. Waluke had 'applauded' Wetang’ula for missing the oath  saying it was good the Senator missed the event knowing it was an exercise in futility. “I want to thank the Senator for the first time seeing the light and missing the function, now I can tell you we have negotiations going on for the 2022 succession politics,” Waluke has said. Wetang’ula however said that his missing at the Raila Odinga swearing in ceremony was a clever and strategic move. “If you go hunting, you all don’t move in one direction because you can easily be attacked ,” he said. Wetang’ula said the move by the government to deny them bodyguards will not cow them from fighting for the rights of Kenyans. Also read; Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth  Click here for the latest political news 