The standoff between Embakasi East MP Babu Owino and his Starehe counterpart Charles Njagua, alias Jaguar, could resurface in the second session of the 12th Parliament. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Jaguar accused Babu of hurling insults at President Uhuru Kenyatta and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and hiding in Parliament to escape arrest. “We are warning some of our leaders who use Parliament as a hiding den after hurling insults to Uhuru and Matiang’i. We are now back to business and will not tolerate jokers,” Jaguar said. [VIDEO] Drama as Babu Owino, Jaguar fight in Parliament Related: We'll square it out if you insult Uhuru, Jaguar tells Babu Owino in apology “If they continue insulting Uhuru’s administration, we will be smoking them out of Parliament and handing them over to the police.” On Wednesday last week, Babu sought intervention from House Speaker Justin Muturi after receiving reports that Flying Squad officers were eagerly waiting for him outside the precincts of Parliament Buildings. He claimed police officers in three vehicles wanted to arrest him for remarks he made during NASA’s Baba Dogo rally. He claimed that police officers in three vehicles wanted to arrest him for remarks he issued during the NASA's Baba Dogo rally. [VIDEO] Babu Owino camps at parliament for fear of arrest “They want to arrest me but I don't think I will get out. If matters worsen, I will spend the night here,” he said. “This is total witch-hunt. An abuse is not a crime. That's a civil matter. If Matiang'i feels I abused him let him proceed to a civil court instead of using police to round us up." In January, the MP was arrested outside Parliament buildings over assault and malicious damage to property. He was detained for two nights at Parklands police cells and released after Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja intervened. On November late last year, Jaguar apologized to his constituents following a fist fight with Babu at Parliament buildings. Sergeants at arms had to separate the two. Jaguar is said to have asked Babu to stop insulting the presidency before the fight. He apologised, citing his counterpart's alleged reference to President Uhuru Kenyatta as mtoto wa mbwa. The first time lawmaker however promised to "square it out" with Babu if he continues to insult Uhuru and the presidency.  Click here for the latest political news