Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o plans to declare February 8 as Baby Samantha Pendo Human Rights Day. Nyong’o, who is still in the US for treatment, yesterday instructed his legal officer to draft a bill for the county assembly. “When Baby Pendo was murdered by state goons last year, I said Kisumu county would dedicate February 8, Samantha’s birthday, as the Samantha Pendo Human Rights Day,” he said in a press statement. Nyong’o said because of many political problems, not much progress has been made with the bill. “We are certain, however, that during this calendar year, the bill will be presented to the assembly and we shall, from next year, commemorate February 8 as a special Human Rights Day in Kisumu,” he said. At her time of death, Pendo was six months old. She was allegedly killed at Nyalenda slum by riot police as they engaged demonstrators following the August 8 General Election. She was hit on the head and slipped in a coma for two days before dying at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu. The postmortem report showed her scalp was cracked and she had internal bleeding. Her parents said she was asleep in her mother’s arms when police stormed into the home and beat her. They were looking for protesters. Governor Nyong’o also condemned the killings of protesters in Ahero, whom he said were peacefully exercising their rights as enshrined in the Constitution. He said speedy investigations should be conducted so families get justice. Police say they are aware of only one death, while leaders say three people were killed by police. “Ipoa, independent human rights organisations and the international community should act swiftly and look into the police brutality in the region. It makes me extremely sad to see how cheap the Kenyan police take our lives,” Nyong’o said “What I have seen in social media regarding our people who have been wantonly killed by the police in Ahero and Kisumu must be condemned in the strongest terms possible.” Nyong’o said his administration will follow up on the killings as they did the others last year. “However long it takes, the culprits must be brought to book and appropriately punished,” the governor added.