Nasa leader Raila Odinga did not go to Baba Dogo for his first rally since becoming the people's president as he was meeting foreign envoys. He had been expected to attend alongside Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). There have been claims of a rift so their supporters are expecting direction. Siaya senator James Oreng'o said Raila had purposed to attend the rally but received a call from envoys who said they wanted to meet him. Oreng'o neither disclosed the details of the meeting nor whether the other three Nasa principals attended. "Baba had planned to be here but he has called me to say he is in a meeting with ambassadors to discuss key issues of his swearing-in and his government." The United States and the European Union raised concerns about Raila's move and the media shutdown that resulted from it. Read: Trump 'gravely concerned' by Raila swearing-in, media attacks Also read: Accept Uhuru re-election and lift media ban, EU tells Kenya Orengo further told the opposition leader's supporters that he is safe and sound and that nobody can arrest him. Several Nasa leaders have been apprehended amid the government's efforts to suppress the National Resistance Movement. More on this: Kibera protesters demand Miguna's release after order defied Oreng'o announced that the coalition is planning a thanksgiving rally at Uhuru Park, where Raila will state the way forward and how he will handle matters of his government. Ahead of the event on Tuesday, the senator said, the coalition will storm Central police station to demand respect for opposition leaders and then inspect the park grounds. The lawmaker noted that most of the frontrunners in the coalition have been jailed several times by previous regimes so the current police harassment is "a drop in the ocean". "Some of us we have gone through hell under Kenyatta, Moi and Kibaki regime. What Uhuru is currently trying is nothing but a shadow," he said. "This is the time to bring change and any leader who acts out of fear ... their days are gone. We must push for a true democratic society and put an end to dictatorship and authoritarianism." Makadara MP George Aladwa, who attended the rally, earlier told Mudavadi and Wetang'ula to carry their own crosses after skipping the Uhuru Park ceremony of January 30. He said the two cannot purport to say their lives are in danger as all the people who attended the event put their lives at risk. Details: Carry your shame for skipping Raila swearing-in, Aladwa tells Weta and Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news