The mystery surrounding the whereabouts of the self-proclaimed NRM General Miguna Miguna deepened yesterday after police failed to produce him in court — for the second time. The drama is set to continue this morning after Justice Luka Kimaru summoned Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to appear before him this morning for contempt of court. Read: Court orders IG Boinnet, DCI to produce Miguna Miguna by 2pm It will coincide with the plan by NASA lawmakers  to “surrender” en masse at Central Police Station in Nairobi to be arrested and charged for any alleged offences the police deem they have committed. The “surrender” is a preemptive move to counter the selective arrests carried out since last Tuesday’s swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the People’s President. So far, three NASA stalwarts — TJ Kajwang’, Miguna Miguna and George Aladwa — have been arrested in connection with the oathing. Kajwang’ was charged last Thursday with attending an unlawful assembly, being present and consenting to administer the presidential oath to Raila.  He was released on a Sh50,000 bail. Miguna was dramatically arrested on Friday morning when police broke into his Meadows, Runda, house. His location has been a cat-and-mouse game between lawyers and supporters on the one hand, and police on the other. On Friday, High Court judge Chacha Mwita issued orders to the IG to release him so he could appear in court yesterday morning. The police ignored the order in a-hide and-seek with the lawyers, amidst reports Miguna had suffered an asthma while in police custody over the weekend. Yesterday morning, Justice Kimaru ordered he be produced in court in the afternoon but police failed again, prompting the summonses to the IG and DCI. NASA supporters jammed the courtroom yesterday afternoon, expecting police to produce Miguna. “It is apparent the IG and DCI are in contempt of court. The Constitution sets out rights that includes the right of an accused person to be produced in court within 24 hours,” Kimaru ruled. The judge said police were operating outside the Constitution by continuing to detain Miguna. “The IG and DCI should appear before me or bring him personally at 9am. Alternatively, they can release him” Kimaru said. NASA leader Raila Odinga and businessman Jimi Wanjigi were among those who thronged he courtroom when the orders were issued. Justice Kimaru earlier had ordered Boinnet and Kinoti to produce the self-proclaimed National Resistance Movement “general” in court by 2pm, but they did not, hence, being cited for contempt. The office of the Director of Public Prosecutions said it was having difficulties dealing with police. State lawyer Peter Malinyani said Nairobi DCI boss Ireri Kamwende had told him he has no instructions regarding Miguna. “Unfortunately, police are not cooperating and I have no instructions,” he said, prompting the judge to issue new directives. He detailed to the court efforts made by his office to serve the IG and DCI with the court’s orders. He said acting DPP Dorcas Oduor telephoned DCI head Kinoti as part of the effort, without success. “We fear for his life. Is he alive? Is he dead? In hospital? These are the questions that keep coming up in our minds. He has family, they are anxious to know what is happening,” Miguna’s lawyer John Khaminwa told the court. The lawyer accused the state of frustrating the rule of law, arguing that even the President was not above the law. “Our judges may be young or old and when they make an order, it must be obeyed. It is becoming fashionable for certain individuals in the government to ignore court orders, which must stop,” Khaminwa said. Raila and a host of NASA lawmakers were in court to receive Miguna. The ODM leader did not, however, address his supporters gathered outside the court compound. Anxiety Anxiety grew on Sunday after lawyer Edwin Sifuna protested that Miguna had suffered an asthma attack but was being held incommunicado without access to a doctor, his family and lawyers. On Monday, Sifuna told the Star that he last saw Miguna on Friday night at the Githunguri Police Station and could therefore not speak to his health and whereabouts. “The OCS allowed me to go and buy him food and I brought it to him myself. That was on Friday at 9.30pm. On Saturday and Sunday we went to the Lari Police Station where he was being kept but they did not allow us to see him. We knew he was there but the OCS and the OCP refused to let us see him,” Sifuna recounted. Also read: Miguna blocked from seeking asthma treatment, lawyers say Lawyer John Khaminwa said he feared for Miguna’s life. Sifuna likened Miguna’s case to that of the late lawyer Willie Kimani who was murdered alongside his client and driver after being picked by police. Anxiety has been building up in Opposition strongholds, especially in his Nyanza turf and especially because Miguna had become the face of resistance against President Uhuru Kenyatta. Miguna, who served as Senior Adviser to Raila when he was Prime Minister, signed the oath that Raila took on January 30. After Kajwang’ was arrested, Miguna remained defiant, saying he administered the oath. Police could not confirm or deny information that Police Flying Squad officers had picked Miguna from Lari Police Station yesterday morning  and locked him up at the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit in the Upper Hill area of Nairobi. NASA supporters chanted anti-Jubilee slogans and burnt miniature American flags outside the Milimani law courts, as they demanded Miguna’s release. They accused the government of defying the court orders and threatened to march in the city streets if he is not produced today. They threatened to lead the youth to Central Police Station to demand the release of ‘our general.’ Nairobi NASA youth leader Jonah Onyango said, “We cannot sit and watch as our leaders are being crushed. We will fight till the end. This is the beginning of the end of the dictatorial Jubilee regime.” Related: Kibera protesters demand Miguna's release after order defied Click here for the latest political news