An Ukambani yough group has trashed Wiper party Kalonzo Musyoka's 2022 presidential bid saying he will nothave any support. The Ukambani Youth Forum said on Saturday that it is clear the Nasa principal cannot be supported by coalition chief Raila Odinga. President Uhuru Kenyatta or Deputy President William Ruto also can't support him, chairman Vincent Luka said. “As young people, the major part of our lives is ahead of us. To rely on Kalonzo, yet we know he cannot go beyond where he is currently, is to give up on our lives. We are not ready for this." There has been speculation about where Kalonzo's loyalties lie since he skipped Raila's January 30 'swearing-in' as the People's President. Raila says their troubles are a simple case of sibling rivalry. Uhuru and Ruto, on the other hand, have asked several times that Kalonzo join their Jubilee Party. He said he never will and that his support for Raila is unwavering. More on this: Nasa troubles a case of 'normal sibling rivalry', says Raila Also read: I can't join sinking Jubilee ship, Kalonzo tells 'panicking' UhuRuto But Luka said the Wiper leader has no chances of forming alliances. Kalonzo burnt all bridges due to his "flip-floppy nature", he said, adding “he continues to be seen as a betrayer who has no stand on any issue". "How can one become President without the support of other communities?” the chairman asked in Machakos town, where he spoke on behalf of youth leaders from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui Counties. Luka noted "the ordinary mkamba in the village" wants unity that is not based on one man's interests but on development, poverty eradication as well as wealth and employment creation. The youths further condemned resolutions at a Wiper leadership meeting in Athi River, Mavoko Sub-County, last Thursday. They said they were saddened by the generational composition of the leadership "that continues to purport to speak on behalf of the Kamba community". “Young people make over 80 per cent of our voting population yet in that meeting, only those hired to carry out menial jobs were involved. It is our feeling that majority of those present are either directly or indirectly responsible for the suffering and poverty being witnessed in Ukambani today," the chairman said. Luka added that most of the Wiper leaders from the region served in the colonial government of founding President Jommo Kenyatta and those of former Presidents Daniel arap Moi and Mwai Kibaki. He noted "the same people who caused the community to be in a sorry and worrisome state of poverty and disunity cannot, obviously, be the ones to redeem them from these situations". Luka urged the community to support Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua’s bid for State House in the next five years. “Mutua, of Maendeleo Chap Chap Party, is the only Kamba leader who has declared interest in the presidency come 2022. He is seen by many as visionary and youthful." Details on Mutua's ambition: [VIDEO] 'Prepare for shock': Alfred Mutua announces 2022 presidency bid Click here for the latest political news