The KRA’s battle with a fi rm associated with controversial businessman Ibrahim Hillowly over Sh2.5 billion tax has taken a new twist after the Court of Appeal ordered that a consignment of 40,000 tonnes of sugar remain at the Port of Mombasa. Justices Alnashir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome last week overturned a High Court order that allowed Hillowly’s Darasa Investments to transfer the sugar to a private warehouse until the suit is heard and determined. The judges, sitting in Malindi, held that the taxman may lose Sh2.5 billion in revenue in the event that the suit is ruled in KRA’s favour after Darasa Investments has sold the disputed consignment of 800,000 bags of Brazilian brown sugar. On December 18 last year, Darasa obtained a court order that limited the taxman to collecting Sh422 million in import declaration fees and maritime levy for the consignment. Justice Eric Ogola also ordered the KRA to allow Darasa to transfer the sugar to the privately owned JB Maina warehouse in Mombasa. Three days later an application by the KRA saw another judge, Mugure thande, order that the sugar be transferred to the port sheds under the taxman’s control. Darasa challenged the decision through another application before yet another judge, Patrick Otieno, who reinstated the earlier order to have the disputed consignment offloaded to JB Maina warehouse. KRA’s eff ort to challenge the decision failed when its fresh application returned to Justice Ogola, who reaffirmed Justice Otieno’s order. Ogola further held that any charges arising from delays in transferring the sugar to JB Maina warehouse be borne by the taxman. But the appellate court judges say the possibility of the KRA losing its chance of collecting revenue if it wins the battle is reason enough to stop the release of the sugar to Darasa. “On the nugatory aspect, we must weigh the positions of the parties and having done so in this case, we find that there is merit in the argument that unless the stay is granted there is a possibility of loss of the import tax assessed at Sh2,548,325 through the sale and disposition of the cargo,” the judges ruled. Darasa says it imported the consignment in line with Treasury requirements but KRA says the importation was after the expiry of tax exemption.