The Sh500 million Wikithuki Irrigation Scheme in Kitui county was bound to collapse, directors of a cooperative society have said. But they want the 800-acre project in Kitui county revived. The project was implemented by the National Irrigation Board. The contractor left the site in 2015 after completing the first phase, which is no longer in use. Equipment is rusting. Two more phases have yet to be built. New NIB site engineer Enock Oenga said he has tried to contact the contractor to resume work, but calls go answered. The contractor has been identified as Unibee Construction Company Limited. Wikithuki Farmers’ Cooperative Society bosses, led by chairman Nzomo Kakuru, said on Monday that they were sidelined and reduced to “hopeless, passive bystanders”. The project adjacent to the Tana River in Tseikuru faced frequent power interruptions and this made the scheme unviable, Kakuru said. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company disconnected the project from the power grid in 2015 because of an Sh800,000 debt. This brought the scheme to its knees. Irrigation board blamed With power switched off, pumps could not work. The 500 farmers abandoned their farms, which quickly were overgrown into thickets. Power was only restored late last year. "NIB cleared the Sh800,000 bill. But the project is still in limbo, as the pumping system has collapsed, despite calls for major repairs," Kakuru told Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu. Nzengu asked why the project remained moribund since 2015. He visited the scheme and said he plans to have it revived. He said the scheme has the potential to create wealth and become a reliable breadbasket for all of Kitui county. “It can’t be allowed to collapse,” he said. Kakuru said farmers were enthusiastic about the project when it kicked off in 2013. Lack of power meant water could not be supplied, hence, maize crops died. Kakuru accused the NIB of being “mean with information”. It was responsible for the communication breakdown between farmers and the contractor, he said. "We were told not to ask questions or seek to know much about the project. We were told that once things were ripe for the project to take off, it would be formally handed over to us,"  Kakuru said. Society treasurer Kennedy Kiliku said NIB’s conduct made it difficult for them to know whether the contractor was doing the right thing. "No one shared with us the project’s bill of quantities, the design or the maps. These public documents have been guarded as secret. It was difficult to know whether the work in phase one was fully completed or done shoddily," he said. Oenga told Nzengu to meet the NIB to have the farmers’ grievances aired and resolved. "I don’t want to revisit the past, which casts us as a community that is unable to run a project that would turn around our lives," Nzengu said. "I’ve set my eyes on reviving this scheme as I promised during my election campaigns. Its revival is top of my priority projects. I’ll not rest until it’s up and running." Click here for the latest political news