The agency mandated with conducting the census is racing against time to align the law governing the process with
the Constitution. This has to be done before it holds the Sh18.5 billion exercise next year. Read: Government preparing for national census in August 2019 KNBS director general Zachary Chege was on Tuesday at pains to convince MPs on the agency’s readiness to conduct census
in August 2019 without aligning the old law with the 2010 Constitution. National Assembly’s Constitution
Implementation Oversight Committee chaired by Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa) warned
that taxpayers risk losing billions of shillings if the Kenya National Bureau of
Statistics proceeds with the census. CIOC vice chairman Geoffrey King’ang’i (Mbeere
South) told Chege that KNBS would lose the case if results for forthcoming census
are challenged in court based on the legality of the exercise unless the
Statistics Act 2006 is amended. "You are not ready at all for census.
The old Act is extinct and the results will be challenged in court and lose the
case the way you have been losing consistently," King’ang’i said. Although Chege disclosed that the draft
bill to align the Act to the new dispensation was almost ready, the MPs criticized
faulted him for neither updating nor involving them. "We are asking this committee to help us
by putting in place the new Act before doing the census. We want this process fast-tracked.
Within one month, we will bring the draft Bill to align the Act to the new
Constitution for scrutiny," Chege said. The census to establish the
country's population demographics is always conducted after every 10 years. The 2009 exercise was conducted before
the realisation of the 2010 Constitution that saw creation of 47 county
governments, hence need to align KNBS census Act to the new law. The scheduled August 24 -
August 25, 2019, night census will be the sixth since Kenya attained independence in
1964. The 2009 census results were marred with
discrepancies including alleged manipulation of official figures at the
national level prompting court battles where KNBS lost both in High court and at the Court of Appeal. Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko demanded an
assurance that the next census results will be credible on grounds KNBS has
been coming up with disputed figures and quashed in court. "There is a trend in this country where
census figures are not credible. Such data has not been completely credible in
1999 and 2009. What is this agency going to do to ensure we have a credible
census?" Tobiko said. Chege told MPs that the agency will
spend an estimated Sh3.5 billion of Sh18.5 billion budget to buy 164,000 smart
phones and relevant census hardware for use in the upcoming exercise. "The United Nations recommends that
during the implementation of the 2020 round of census programme, all countries consider
use of mobile technology. This is applicable to data collection during mapping
and census enumeration so as to improve on the quality of data collected," he
said. The KNBS director general pointed out
that huge sum of the budget will be spend on more than 190,000 staff it plans
to hire for the exercise. Chege revealed that preparation for next
year’s census began in 2015 in terms of how it will be implemented, the budget
and work plan. "While approving the census project
proposal and the Cabinet Memo, the Cabinet directed the ministry in charge of
census to initiate the preparations for 2019 Population and Housing Census," he
said. "…the National Treasury to allocate financial
resources to the census process and the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of
National Government to ensure adequate security during the entire process." He told the committee that the 2019 census
preliminary figures will be released within one month, basic reports within
three months while the comprehensive report will be released by June 2020. Chege pointed out KNBS initiated the
mapping of census units in April 2017 and that so far mapping has been
conducted in 13 counties including Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Meru, Kitui, Vihiga, Murang’a,
among others. Training of members of the public on census
has also been done in 22 counties and is ongoing in Bungoma. Click here for the latest political news