The National Disaster Management Unit is appealing for humanitarian aid to assist families that were affected by multiple fire incidents in Lang’ata recently. NDMU Deputy Director Pius Masai says they need supplies of both food and non-food items. “We are in need of sugar, bread, tea leaves, milk, vegetables, drugs for our clinic, women and children items and toiletries,” he said in a statement on Saturday. Read: Dozens left homeless as fire guts Lang'ata's Kijiji slum According to Masai, government and private organizations have so far offered help with the supply items like iron sheets, mattresses, blankets, maize, beans, rice and cash. On the night of January 28, a fire raced through Kijiji slums in Lang’ata's Southlands neighbourhood  and left three people dead and over 6,000 others homeless. On Friday, another fire burnt part of Raila Village within the same estate and left about 200 families without a place to call home. Masai said so far, well wishers and the government have donated 15,000 iron sheets and they are coordinating with people who lost their homes on how to distribute the material. “They have been advised to ensure that they abide with the site plan in ensuring that access roads are present,” Masai said. Read: Three dead, 6,000 homeless after Lang'ata slum fire He said various institutions and faith based organizations around the area are meanwhile helping the families with food and shelter. Masai said Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has also set up contingency funds to facilitate the daily camp activities. He said the governor has also pledged to supply more building material including sand and stones from Sunday. “We believe you are aware that currently there is no law with clear plans for assistance of victims of disaster in Kenya but we have a bill before Parliament. That is why it might take some time in finding a best solution for exit strategy,” Masai said. “What is happening is purely supporting basic needs and not compensation,” he added. Well wishers can send their monetary donations via M-pesa Till No. 521500. More on this: Families left in the cold as fire sweeps through Raila village  Click here for the latest political news