The government has so far purchased 2.7 million 90kg bags of maize, a record high in the last five years. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe yesterday said this is the highest amount of maize the government has purchased from farmers through the National Cereals and Produce Board. “The 2017-18 season has been very encouraging, compared to the previous seasons where we have only bought two million of bags annually. Our target for the National Strategic Reserve is four million bags as the country consumes three million bags monthly,” Lesiyampe said in his office during an interview on the country’s maize stock. In October last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta said the government set aside Sh6.8 billion to buy maize from farmers at Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. Lesiyampe said the government received Sh6.8 billion and later requested an additional Sh1.9 billion. Out of the total Sh8.7 billion allocated, the government still owes farmers in the North Rift Sh3.7 billion for maize deliveries. Since early October last year, when goverment started buying maize from smallscale farmers, more than Sh4 billion has been spent. The government is yet to conclude the assessment of the food balance sheet since the NCPB, traders and millers are still buying maize from farmers. “This should be concluded by the end of this month. It will give us a proper indication and projection on how long the maize we have will take us,” the PS said. “For now we have enough maize and with the price of between Sh2,800 and Sh3,200 per 90-kilo bag there is no reason why a two-kilo packet of flour should go beyond Sh115.” In case of maize shortage, the government will take appropriate measures to ensure millers have adequate supply to maintain affordable unga prices. Lesiyampe cautioned retailers against selling a 2kg packet of maize flour at more than Sh115. “It is unfortunate that traders exploit Kenyans while we have adequate supply of maize ,especially between January-February-March,” the PS said. With the 100 per cent food security and nutrition initiative, the government intends to further bring down the price of unga from Sh110-Sh115 to Sh90, as it was with the subsidy programme that ended in December last year. “We will utilise all the productive public and private land in the country. We will also focus more on irrigated land that can give two crops in a season, unlike rain-fed farming, which only yields one crop per season,” he said. “We intend to put in mechanisms such as water harvesting. We ask Kenyans to make use of any available water to produce food.”