WHAT happened to First Lady Margaret Kenyatta's "Beyond
Zero" programme? Some women leaders who worked with her were overheard
discussing how the gracious Margaret had abandoned the initiatives that defined
her first term and won women’s support for the reelection of her husband. They
were complaining that, of late, the First Lady is only interested in
attending high-end events, unlike the image she created while visiting the poor
during the campaign period last year. ****** A chairperson of a
lucrative parastatal in the tourism sector has panicked after learning that
President Uhuru Kenyatta may not
renew his tenure when it comes to an end in April. It is understood that State
House aides compiling the list of heavyweights to be considered for appointment
as heads of parastatals and government agencies have forewarned him that he has
fallen out of favour with the appointing authority. Frantic efforts by the
politician to reach out to the President to pledge his loyalty have flopped
several times after State House operatives blocked all his appointments. ***** ARE deputy governors
plotting to lobby MPs to bring down the County Governments Amendments Bill
fronted by Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba
Murkomen? Well, Corridors has learnt that the bill was the subject of chats
by a number of deputy governors during their two-day forum in Naivasha last
week. The DGs are specifically unhappy with a section barring them from acting
as governors for 60 days in case their bosses die while in office. The DGs are
considering setting up an informal kitty to 'fight' the bill, which they want
recalled for wider consultation. ****** IS lawyer Harun Ndubi a victim of a senior police
officer who vowed to fix him? Well, sources whisper to Corridors that the human
rights lawyer could just be a pawn in the game to get at his client – Dagoretti
South MP Simba Arati.  Ndubi is
representing Arati against the State in challenging the revocation of his
firearm license. Some civil society members believe there is a strong push to
have Arati arrested. It is not clear whether the Law Society of Kenya, already
cross with the Executive over disobedience of court orders, will take a
position on Ndubi's suspicious arrest. ***** CID officers who wielded a
lot of power under Ndegwa Muhoro and
were alleged to be part of criminal cartels are unhappy and keenly following
the latest changes by new Director George Kinoti.
A number of them who were having coffee at a city hotel over the weekend
appeared to be worried. A familiar tall officer with a dark complexion who
operates within Nairobi region was heard saying; “As long as we have our people
in the new set-up we will always be ahead.”  Click here for the latest political news  