The
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015 proposed
ambitious 17 goals and 169 targets to end extreme poverty and leave no
one behind by 2030. These goals for people, planet, peace, prosperity
and partnerships - agreed upon by all of the UN’s 193 member
nations - called on the public, private, and non-profit sectors to
address many challenges. The challenges range from ending hunger and reducing
inequality to building resilient infrastructure and combat climate
change. While
the architects of the SDGs envisioned their leadership at national
level, their actual impact and transformation will ultimately be
realised at subnational level, through collaborations. Nairobi
County - in recognising its potential leadership on triangular
development based on its vibrant business community, academic prowess
and inter-governmental readiness - is finding is place within the
global community of champions of these new ways of development. Related: The Millennium Development Goals give way to Sustainable Development Goals Also read: Meeting SDGs, Agenda 2063 a tall order, shows report The
Global Ambition, Local Action (GA-LA) was launched at Occidental
College by H.E Mayor Eric Garcetti at its United Nations Week in Los
Angeles California, bringing together representatives from vanguard
cities of Nairobi, Mumbai, Los Angeles, Paris and Tokyo. GA-LA
recognises the opportunity for unprecedented collaboration by
like-minded global cities, all committed to advancing the SDGs and
sharing lessons learned with one other. The Nairobi government, in
this collaboration, intends to harness brain-power, research and
data to tackle old challenges with new
tools and innovations. Nairobi is the economic heartbeat of the region and its development so its economic progress or regress are intrinsically connected to the
achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Its
challenges though, as we realise, are not uncommon to other leading
cities in the world. Nairobi however, as envisioned in this bold step,
intends to lead in creating and sustaining an environment where the
economy thrives and the prosperity is shared by all its residents. Nairobi has been developing its County Integrated Development Plan
(CIDP), that must become a living document and respond to the
aspirations of residents, but moreso a global business community
as well as its vibrant Small and Medium Enterprise Ecosystem (SME). In this quest for economic progress, we intend to ensure Nairobi
becomes the leading meetings, incentives, conferencing and events
(MICE) destination; continually supports responsible business by
improving the ease of doing business for companies of all sizes; and
creates an environment for employment and entrepreneurships for an
increasingly young and educated population. Nairobi, like other global hubs, is at the front line of getting
services to ordinary people but it will not do this alone. We now
know that 60 to 70 per cent of the world’s population will be living
in cities in the coming decades, and are therefore reminded that developmental challenges and the demands of an expecting citizenry
demand win-win collaboration, especially with business that assures
growth, economic and social transformation for these populations. The county, as part of this global community, is integrating SDG
targets into its CIDP and is committed to becoming a premier hub for
collaboration with business and academia. The aim is to ensure that its decisions
are based on data, a cleaner environment, and a safer and prosperous
Nairobi that is open for all sizes of businesses that espouse
sustainability. After all these are the hallmarks of a truly global
city of the future and must remain our ambition, going forward. Click here for the latest political news