When I met former Chief Justice Dr Willy Mutunga on January 26 during the Human Rights Defender of the Year awards at the residence of The Netherlands Ambassador Frans Makken, he told me that if we — the youth and journalists — allow, the government would make the human rights and freedoms space narrower. This was in response to my question on what the communication by Jubilee that they had reached an agreement that will see its officials trained on democracy and party management by Chinese Communist Party would mean for Kenya. On January 25, President Uhuru hosted the CPC top officials at State House, where it was agreed the ruling political party of the People’s Republic of China would offer 20 scholarships to Jubilee Party every year. Knowing the history of China in terms of human rights and clampdown on dissent, it is ironical Kenya would borrow any lessons. Over 16 human rights lawyers and activists — detained after a nationwide sweep of rights advocates in July 2015 as reported by the Human Rights Watch — were the clearest victims of the authorities’ hostility towards civil society. According to the Human Rights Watch 2017 World Report, the Chinese government continues to lead the world in the number of people executed, with 46 crimes eligible for the death penalty. Chinese authorities’ enforced disappearance of critics from Hong Kong and other countries in 2016 garnered headlines globally. Beijing’s decision to interfere in a politically charged court case in Hong Kong in November undermined judicial independence and the territory’s autonomy. So if it about learning how best to do this, the recent events in the country would mean Jubilee is already taking the lessons quite fast. On Tuesday, the Washington Post Editorial said, “Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta could have presided over a landmark consolidation of democracy last year that would have positioned Kenya for political leadership in Africa. Instead, he is leading the country back toward the autocracy it thought it had left behind. By shutting down media, ignoring court orders and charging peaceful opponents with treason, he is dangerously raising tensions in an already polarized society and inviting ostracism for his government.” Many other international media outlets have also voiced their concerns over the recent developments, as well human rights groups. The media shutdown was unprecedented and it is a clear warning of what to expect in the next five years. It started with the Judiciary and civil society groups, and has now extended to the opposition. Who is next? As Dr Mutunga said, we ought to defend our rights and the rule of law.  Kibii comments on current and international affairs