The Capital Markets Authority has issued fresh notices to former Uchumi Supermarkets directors recently cleared of fraud charges by the High Court over their role in the flawed Sh895 million rights issue in 2014. In the new notices to show cause to James Murigu, Bartholomew Ragalo and and Joyce Ogundo, the capital markets regulator has amended the wrong phraseology of the statutory breaches detailing allegations against them, which the court used to clear the three. While clearing them during the January 16 ruling, Justice George Odunga said the CMA used non-existent offences to charge the three, negating the whole process. “It’s therefore clear that whereas the actions of the applicants may well have constituted an offence under other statutes or provisions of the law, they were certainly not candidates for a charge pursuant to which they were required to show cause,” Odunga said. In the fresh notices seen by the Star, the CMA wants former directors to come clean about misinformation around the rights issue undertaken by Uchumi Supermarkets Limited in 2014. Letters show the Information Memorandum approved by the authority was materially altered prior to being published. Whereas the IM approved by the authority indicated the purpose Rights Issue was expansion, growth and opening of 11 branches and refurbishment of five others by end of 2014/15 financial year, IM published indicated that the proceeds were to provide a working capital for the retailer. The CMA has accused the three directors and others not mentioned for failing to exercise appropriate oversight of the Rights Issue expenditures contrary to set rules. Furthermore, the three ex-directors have been asked to explain in detail why financial statement for the period ending June 30, 2014 were cooked to enhance the retailer’s financial position. The regulator has accused former directors of breaching their fiduciary of care contrary to CMA guidance on corporate governance practices when they approved the opening of several branches as part of the retailers expansion plan without making due diligence. The trio have also been asked to answer questions on conflict of interests by allowing companies with similar directorship and shareholding to supply to Uchumi Supermarket. A case in point is that of Elihon and Glad Mark Limited owned by Jane Waithera Ciano, wife to the then Uchumi Supermarket managing director was allowed to supply to the retailer. They are also supposed to explain why they approved asset sale transactions involving agreement for Sh500 million and Sh1.1 billion to Cooperative Bank and KCB without public disclosure.   