This
week, EAC Presidents are in Kampala, for the presidential retreat on financing
infrastructure and health, and a summit of the East African Community member
states. This comes at a time when  Kenya
and Tanzania are not really crazy in love. As has always been, there are differences
the respective heads of state think should be addressed. In
the government pullout, MyGov, issue of February 20, a report indicated Kenya
and Tanzania had underscored to eliminate non-tariff barriers and ease market
access for each other’s products and services as a means of enhancing bilateral
trade. This is not the first time we are hearing such reports. In any case,
what this report says is essentially what the EAC is there to address, and has
actually provided for in the past This also comes in a wake of declining trade
volumes between the two states over the last five years. Kenya
exports to Tanzania, the report said, declined from $38 billion in 2012 to $32
billion in 2016. On the other hand, Tanzania exports declined from $19 billion
in 2014 to $13 billion in 2017. Acknowledging
these issues, Tanzania President Pombe Magufuli said on Friday, “We have small
issues relating to businesses and traders between Kenya and Tanzania. We want
Kenya and Tanzania ministers to meet urgently and resolve these issues. These
are small matters that should be resolved quickly. As leaders, we don’t have a
problem. We are okay.” On the other
hand, Pakistan has knocked our East African friend, Uganda, as Kenya’s leading
export market, particularly in tea, with a volume of 153 million kilogrammes,
which is 37 per cent of the total volumes of tea exported. I
think otherwise: It is enough. Let’s break up. Tanzania has been a nagging partner. And it didn’t start the other day.
It is historical. In 1977, the three East African states — Kenya, Uganda and
Tanzania —lost over 60 years of co-operation and the benefits of economies of
scale, considering the customs union between Kenya and Uganda, which Tanganyika
joined in 1927, started in 1917. The region wasted another 2022 years before
the community was revived in 1999. Tanzania complained of Kenya’s dominance in
the region. How
can these trade barriers be eliminated when Tanzania burnt 5,000 one-day old
chicks illegally imported through the northern Namanga border again, less than
three months after doing the same thing last year? Aren’t there better
mechanisms to deal with such issues? In January last year, I noted in this column that the East African Common
Market Scorecard by the World Bank showed Tanzania had been the worst
performer in eliminating non-tariff barriers to trade at 66 per cent, compared to Rwanda, which had
eliminated 94.1 per cent and Kenya at 85.5 per cent. Further, Tanzania and
Burundi regulations make the two nations to be the most
difficult to move capital into and out of their borders. In conclusion of that article — headlined "Is Tanzania sabotaging Kenya's economic interests?" — I said for its own benefit, Kenya
needed to react to circumstances at hand in this marriage accordingly, without
compromising on what is key to its survival and prosperity. A comment on that particular article noted in part, "This article seems bent to assign blame onto Tanzania; this strategy
(assigning blame) has never worked anywhere in the world - at least not
in a sustainable manner." At this rate, instead of "assigning blame", it time to go our separate
ways and work with states such as Pakistan. It is about interests, after all.  Kibii comments on current and international
affairs 