President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed all disciplined forces to accommodate a proportion of NYS servicemen during their annual recruitment. Uhuru said he will require a compliance update from all the forces following the directive. The president said he had been briefed that since the inception of the new NYS programs, the National Police Service has only recruited a few personnel from the unit. He on Friday said the directive aims at recognising the importance of absorbing the NYS recruits in the discipline forces. "To further bolster the resolve to engage the youth in gainful employment, I have directed the NYS to spearhead the revival of the cotton industry and to put its vast land parcels into viable use." "To this end, I also directed the recovery of all NYS land illegally converted to private use, and the allocation of 100,000 acres of the Galana Kulalu complex, and the model NIB farm in the Tana Delta, to the service," Uhuru said. The President said the directives are intended to achieve the aggregate outcome of contributing to industrialisation, food security, and creation of sustainable employment for the youth. He also ordered that the recruit's monthly allowance be increased to Sh2,100 from the current Sh700, the latter having been the situation for close to 15 years. The president said this was in recognition of the rise in the cost of living over the period. Uhuru said for the last few years, the institution has been able to proactively manage the resources at its disposal, sometimes in difficult circumstances. He added that the growth in recruitment from 4,000 recruits to 30,000 in a space of four years has inevitably come with its own challenges. "But it has not been an exercise in merely increasing numbers rather, it has opened up opportunities for thousands of young people, who otherwise would not have had the resources to acquire the skills and training offered at NYS," he said. Uhuru said the NYS Youth Empowerment Program made remarkable impact in up-scaling living conditions in disadvantaged regions and poor urban neighbourhoods before it was halted temporarily to allow time to take stock of countrywide achievements. He said by the end of the period to October 2017, the program had engaged 236,250 community youth in 253 regions across all 47 counties. The youth had saved a total of Sh 3.48 billion in 688 Saccos. A significant portion of the savings is already circulating in youth businesses ranging from merchandising, agency business, transportation, communication, agriculture, entertainment, beauty, and hospitality. Click here for the latest political news 