Thirdway Alliance leader Ekuru Aukot on Thursday unveiled his shadow Cabinet saying it is composed of people with no integrity questions. "You will not see any recycled appointees in this Cabinet ... you will see well educated Kenyans with a fresh train of thoughts," Aukot told journalists in Nairobi. "We are the government in waiting and we are ready to serve at all times," he said, adding the Cabinet "will change the tone and character of Kenyan politics." "The current political atmosphere is threatening the existence of the very country we all claim to love in equal measure." Aukot noted they were waiting for IEBC to invite them for talks on how to go about the collection of five million signatures to pave way for Constitutional amendments. This he said, well help the party push for a plebiscite which will see Parliamentary seats reduced from the current 290 to 194. The appointees are; WHAT NEXT? Secretary general Fredrick Okang'o told The Star that they will formulate a policy in the next two months to outline issues they want resolved. "We will launch this document in May and compare it with the document the government has," he said. Okang'o noted that the appointees volunteered to work for free to help build a better Kenya. "Members are experts, consultants and lectures who are offering services for free," he said, adding they will work from their places of jurisdiction. When Aukot called for applications for shadow Cabinet Secretaries and senior advisers in January, he said it would comply with Article 130 of the Constitution. The article notes that the composition of the National Executive shall reflect the regional and ethnic diversity of the people of Kenya. More on this: Aukot invites applications for 22 Shadow Cabinet slots Aukot was one of the lawyers who helped draft the 2010 Constitution and once said it was tougher than ruling a nation. Last year, the politician declared himself the official opposition leader after losing the presidential contest. He trailed both President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga in the race but pledged to keep the government on its toes. Uhuru garnered 7,483,895 votes and was followed by Raila, who withdrew from the race, with 73,228. Aukot was third with 21,333 votes; Abduba Dida (14,107), Japheth Kaluyu (8,261), Michael Wainaina (6,007), Joseph Nyagah (5,554), and Cyrus Jirongo (3,832). Read: Endorse me so I can thrash Uhuru, Ekuru Aukot tells Raila Click here for the latest political news 