The Knut has threatened to withdraw teachers from the volatile border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties following increased bandit attacks. More than 10 people have been killed and 250 displaced over the last two months due to sporadic raids during which 500 livestock have been stolen. The Kenya National Union of Teachers West Pokot branch on Monday asked the government to strengthen security, failing which they will ask members to keep off schools. “We are telling our members not to risk their lives by going to school without proper security,” branch secretary Martin Sembelo said. Some 5000 students have been affected by the attacks. Last week, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i visited the area. On Monday, Pokot South deputy county commissioner Hezron Nyamberi told the Star that classes had resumed in most schools after the state deployed two police officers to guard each institution. Most schools had been closed. Nyamberi said only two schools were yet to reopen because students had not reported. The students have been integrated in other schools. "The guns have gone silent and schools reopened," Nyamberi said. Speaking in Kapenguia, Sembelo asked the government to mop up all illegal guns in the area. He said many teachers were seeking transfers to safer regions. “The security must move with speed and strengthen security. It is worrying to see students and their parents sleeping in caves for fear of attacks," Sembelo said. He said the attacks have caused panic among residents. On the implementation of the new curriculum, Sembelo warned the government against any rush, saying teachers were not ready because of several hiccups. He asked the government to first train the tutors and provide books for the new syllabus. “The ministry has had some issues that it wants to postpone till 2019. Teachers are ready to teach,” he said He said delocalization will impact negatively on the performance of learners in every county and will jeopardize learning in schools thus lower education standards. “It will take time for teachers to familiarize with the environment ,”said Sembelo.The Knut Secretary condemned increased strikes in schools within the County saying about five schools have been involved in unnecessary strikes. “We are seeing signal which is not well in terms of academics ,”he said. He said there is need to convene an urgent meeting with all stake holders. “Knut, Ministry of education, Board of management, County government and principals need to brainstorm on ugly situation which is not going on well,”he said. He asked school heads to solve problems, do guiding and counseling in their respective schools. “It’s dangerous for learners especially girls to walk for more than twenty kilometers at night going to the governor’s office,” he said.      