Kenya Sevens are targeting to finish in the medal bracket despite being pitted against powerhouses New Zealand in the April’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia. Head coach Innocent Simiyu said they will be seeking to better their performance at games irrespective of the opposition. Kenya face Commonwealth silver medalists New Zealand, stubborn Canada and fellow Africans Zambia in a tough Pool ‘C’. Speaking from Hamilton, New Zealand, where Shujaa are preparing for the fourth round of the World Sevens Series this weekend, Simiyu said Shujaa will have to be at their best in the three-day day tourney. “It’s a tough pool but the boys will be more than ready for the event. The nature of Sevens nowadays is such that anything can happen. Our preparation has been spot on and we will be up for the challenge,” added Simiyu. Champions South Africa are in Pool ‘A’ and face Scotland, Papua New Guinea and Malaysia with England, renewing their rivalry with Australia, Samoa and Jamaica in Pool ‘B’. Fiji, Wales, Uganda and Sri Lanka battle it out in Pool ‘D’. Kenya Lionesses, who qualified for the Club Games by virtue of finishing second in the Africa Cup Sevens last year, meet New Zealand, Canada and South Africa in Pool ‘A’ of the women’s category. Hosts Australia are up against Fiji, England and Wales in the event, which runs from April 13-15. Only the winners in each of the four pools in the men’s competition will advance to the semis and stay in contention for the medals on offer. In the women’s competition, top two from each pool will advance to the semis as they compete for medals at stake. In the past, the top two team in the men’s pools have qualified for the Cup quarters with the winners advancing to the medal bracket matches. Rugby was introduced at the Commonwealth Games in 1998 in Malaysia. Kenya finished bottom of their pool in Kuala Lumpar, losing 33-5 to Tonga and 28-0 to England to drop to the bowl category where they lost again to Tonga 35-19. At the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester, England, Kenya stunned Samoa 28-20 but lost 33-12 to England and 14-12 to Cook Islands to drop to the bowl category, where they beat Trinidad and Tobago 40-10 but lost to Tonga 41-10 in the semis. In the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, Australia, Kenya lost to Wales 33-0 and 41-0 to New Zealand with a 31-5 win over Namibia, their sole consolation from pool play. In the bowl quarters, Kenya beat Niue Islands 21-10 and thrashed Uganda 29-0 in the semis to set up a final clash against Tonga, who they beat 26-12. In New Delhi game in 2010 Kenya had its best performance toping its group beating Samoa 12-10, Papua New Guinea 17-12 and Malaysia 40-0 to romp to the quarters. Kenya were, however, knocked out in the quarterfinal by Australia 27-5. In the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, Kenya finished second in their pool behind after South Africa, posting 28-0 win over Cook Islands and a 35-5 win over a Trinidad and Tobago sandwitched in between a 20-0 loss to South Africa. They fell at the quarter-final hurdle to New Zealand, going down 19-7.