The Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association has faulted the government for attacking the Judiciary and disobeying court orders. Secretary general Derrick Kuto said the Judiciary has come under attack from the political class. “Specifically, the office of the Chief Justice and other members of the bench have been targeted in connection with the discharge of their duties,” he said. The association said sometimes parties who go to court are dissatisfied with rulings, but there is always recourse. Read: 'Arrogant' Tuju's letter aimed to intimidate Maraga personally - Willy Mutunga Kuto said it is in bad faith for a litigant to target individual judges, magistrates and kadhis. The association also raised concerns over the recent disobedience of court orders by the state. “When there is disregard for court orders, no citizen of this great nation is assured of protection of his or her rights as guaranteed by the Constitution,” Kuto said. witch-hunt He said the absence of law and order can plunge the country into chaos. Kuto urged Kenyans to support the Judiciary in its quest to defend the Constitution and uphold the Rule of Law. “As KMJA, we believe in the independence of the Judiciary even as we appreciate the interdependence and respect among the three arms of government,” Kuto said. The association denied allegations the latest transfer of judges was a witch-hunt, adding it is the role of Chief Justice David Maraga to transfer judges. Read: Nullifying Uhuru's win almost burned Kenya, Tuju protests to Maraga odunga transferred KMJA president Jacqueline Kamau said if court orders are not obeyed, it will lead the country to anarchy and there could be a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence. She said it is in the interest of citizens that everyone, including politicians, that the Rule of Law is upheld. Justice George Odunga was on Tuesday transferred to Machakos in a reshuffle affecting senior judges. He will be replaced at the Judicial Review Division by Justice Pauline Nyamweya who was previously at the Machakos High court. The changes were unveiled in a letter signed by principal judge Richard Mwongo.  Click here for the latest political
news   