Kenya is facing a leadership crisis and the poor bear the brunt of pandemic corruption, Chief Justice David Maraga has said. Maraga described the country’s leadership as being on trial and said there is sufficient evidence. Reiterating that corruption is a pandemic, he accused politicians of “shamelessly plundering public resources without giving a thought to the poor who are in dire need”. “We can only succeed in passing on the virtue of integrity to others if we live out whatever we say.” Read : State disobeys court order again, bars Orengo and Wanjigi from travelling to Zimbabwe The Supreme Court president noted that jobs such as his are not for the faint-hearted. Maraga urged fellow judges and the political class to strive for integrity and respect, and engender public confidence in the discharge of their constitutional mandate. It is common knowledge that some of the disputes brought to court involve matters of great national importance — matters which if not carefully and prayerfully handled, can tip the balance of national security and plunge this country into chaos and total anarchy, he said. His statement comes barely a week after Jubilee Party secretary general Raphael Tuju accused him of nearly plunging Kenya into chaos after the Supreme Court annulled the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta, forcing a presidential rerun. The CJ said Kenyans are keen to pursue leadership skills but lack the resolve to practise what they study. “At a time when the world has made mind-boggling advances in science, technology and the arts, it is ironical that a confidence gap in leadership is strongly manifest throughout the world,” he said. “Is it because of the credibility deficit in their character, conduct or confidence? Could it be that the approaches to leadership training and the basic assumptions about what leadership entails have been erected on a faulty foundation? “Could it be that we need to rethink and redefine leadership and evaluate our leadership goals?” Maraga maintained that true leaders demonstrate integrity by their actions. “One can be a great leader and make great profits for oneself or for one’s employer through corruption. That’s not a leadership style worth emulating,” he said. Also read : All Kenyans must follow court orders, Maraga says after Miguna drama “Men and women of integrity are those whose word can be depended on in any situation. Trust and confidence are the foundations of every business relationship they engage in. In my view, that is a value system of great, if not absolute, honesty.” Click here for the latest political news