The county government is on the spot for spending unapproved Sh480 million to pay lawyers. The county's legal department was allocated Sh100
million in the 2015/16 financial year to pay law firms but instead spend Sh580
million without regularising the expenditure as required in law. The irregularity was revealed by Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2015/16 audit report. The finance bosses neither provided payment
vouchers to support their spending nor the list of law firms paid, raising concerns the money could have
been embezzled. Appearing before the Public Accounts Committee last Thursday, acting finance chief officer Ekaya
Alumasi admitted no supplementary budget was presented to the House to regularise
the expenditure. Section 135 of the Public Finance Management Act
allows the county governments to over spend but requires them to regularise it,
in form of a supplementary, within two months of the expenditure. “The legal department made an effort to regularise the
expenditure and presented a proposed supplementary budget to the legal and budget
committees,” Ekaya said. Ekayu said the payments were made in respect of court orders and that the county and some specific officers could have been
cited for contempt, if they failed to pay. But the committee's chair Wilfred
Odalo, who is Mabatini MCA, questioned how the proposed supplementary budget could have reached the Budget and Legal Affairs committees, but failed to be tabled in the House. “The law requires the supplementary budget to be approved
by the county assembly, not committees. There is no way the budget could have reached the committee and failed to reach the assembly,” Karen MCA David Mberia said. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto, who was the vice chair of
the legal affairs committee in the last assembly, said the committee did not
receive the proposed supplementary budget nor approve the expenditure. The committee demanded a schedule of all law firms that were paid, list of all pending cases, lawyers pre-qualified to
work for the county, outstanding legal fees and a list of all officers who
authenticated the payments. But Ekaya maintained some of documents could
not be provided as they touched on internal operations of the sector. “We are not
asking for these documents to criminalise you or your officers, we want to
establish the truth to vindicate them,”Dandora III MCA Charles Thuo said. In the previous financial year, the county spent
Sh1.1 billion in legal fees. Among the law firms that were paid included Mosyoki
Mogaka & Company Advocates, which received Sh5.4 million and Momanyi Advocates
which received Sh60 million. Others were C W Ngala (Sh27 million), Kaceyo and
Company (Sh5 million), while the county government legal department gobbled
Sh36.6 million.