Former Senator John Munyes, during his vetting for the position of Petroleum and Mining CS, emphasised the importance of local communities’ involvement in the extractive sector through public participation. Since the discovery of oil in Turkana, and subsequent works by mining companies, hostilities have been reported between the local communities and the excavating companies and the national government for lack of citizens’ involvement. On July 7 last year, the High Court in Nairobi nullified a presidential ballots tender for, amongst others, failing to meet the constitutional threshold of public participation. Kenya missed a chance to address public participation as an unsubstitutable ingredient of public service. The 2010 Constitution lays down the foundation for a bottom-up engagement between citizens and government. The government is required to gather feedback from citizens, consult them on key initiatives and facilitate access to information by wananchi. Article 10 ( 2 ) (a) lists participation of the people as one of the national values and principles of governance. Though there are many provisions for public participation in national and devolved governance stipulated in the Constitution and County Governments Act 2012, public agencies still fail to deliver satisfactory participation for citizens. In January 2016, the Devolution ministry and the Council of Governors launched the County Public Participation Guidelines. The question of the desirable threshold of public participation is still a gray area in both national and county government processes as far as determining what effective citizen participation ought to be. However, the following principles ought to be followed as stipulated in the guidelines.  First, there ought to be timely access to all information relevant to the agenda of the session. An advert for participation in a local daily would not be appropriate for Turkana residents, for instance, since most of them don’t access newspapers in time when they do. Second, it is important that the public agency avails clear authenticated official information to be discussed by the public. An example is a notice for public participation that shows statistics established through an environmental impact assessment, therefore inviting wananchi to discuss the impact of excavation on particular locations. Third, there ought to be practical access to the process of making the regulations, policies, and laws plus budgetary, project, and permits information for the public. Holding a public participation session on compensations for Lokichar residents whose land has been acquired for mining at a hotel in Lodwar denies the community practical access to the session since they reside 90km away. Fourth, the facilitating public agency should safeguard the rights of minority, marginalised groups and their access to information relevant to the public participation exercise. This entails making the notice for participation available in forms that can be accessed by people with disability, and providing opportunity for the participation of marginalised groups, including indigenous persons. Fifth, there should be multiple opportunities for citizen participation. It is essential that in executing public participation, citizens are given more than one opportunity to air their views on the agenda item. The rationale behind having multiple public participation platforms is that having as much consultation about an issue with the public helps build credibility with those who will pay for and benefit from the project. Sixth, the public agency should make clear the legal standing from which all persons, especially the minority and marginalised, can air their grievances and seek redress for any breach or rights infringement. Both the county and national governments should include clauses within their laws that outline avenues for redress for those who feel they were not included in the public participation process. Munyes mentioned that public participation is crucial in not just ensuring that local communities benefit from mining in their locales, but also in regularisation of mining laws at the local level. Public participation ought not to be viewed as an event to just legitimise an already decided thing, but a platform for public sensitisation on a matter of public concern. Ongere is programme assistant, Article 19 Eastern Africa