Heavy bleeding is the leading cause of death among women during pregnancy, labour or after giving birth, the government says in a new report. An investigation by the Ministry of Health blames most of the deaths on poor services in hospitals. Many lives could be saved if delays in treatment and poor monitoring are addressed. Unqualified staff also contributed to the deaths according to the first ever probe by the government on maternal deaths. The report ‘Saving Mothers Lives: Confidential Enquiry into Maternal Deaths in Kenya’ was released yesterday by director of medical services Jackson Kioko. Heavy bleeding causes vital organs to shutdown, hence death. Researchers sampled hospitals countrywide and studied records of women who were killed by pregnancy-related complications. About 4,000 mothers die from pregnancy-related complications every year. The number has decreased from 6,000 in 2014. According to the report, 51.1 per cent of the deaths were caused by bleeding, while 19.7 per cent were caused by hypertensive disorders associated with pregnancy. Some 12.5 per cent succumbed to other pregnancy related infections. “The majority [91 per cent] of those who died from bleeding received sub-optimal care, where different management would have resulted in different outcomes,” the report says. HIV-AIDS Other women died from conditions unrelated to the pregnancy, but which may have developed or worsened within the nine months. In this category, 22.9 per cent of women succumbed to HIV-Aids related complications. Anaemia caused 14.6 per cent of such deaths, while diseases like malaria and those of the circulatory system accounted for 10.4 per cent each. The report was compiled in 2016 and 2017 using data from 2014. FEW GYNAECOLOGISTS “Some of the recommendations from this report have already been implemented,” head of the division of family health Mohamed Sheikh said. “We don’t want to blame anyone. We just want to know the causes of the deaths because it will help us reshape our policies and guidelines.” Nearly all the women who died were not seen by gynaecologists. “Yes gynaecologists are very few. But where are those ones being paid to work in public hospitals? They are not doing their work,” Kioko said. Head of reproductive and maternal health services Joel Gondi said the report will help to reduce facility-based deaths by more than 50 per cent within five years. He lamented the few number of gynecologists and obstetricians. “Many of the counties with high maternal deaths have advertised for jobs but no one has applied,” Gondi said.