In the recent past, Kenyans and institutions have on several occasions, flagrantly disregarded the courts’ orders without much fuss. Those who have ignored orders from the Judiciary include individuals and corporates from a cross-section of Kenyan leadership. Since early last year, individuals and organisations have defied orders that fall within the ambit of contempt of court. Trade unions refused to comply with court directions ordering them to abandon the numerous strikes as we approached the August 8 General Election. The trade unions, in their respective and various pronouncements, termed the court orders illegal, even as they themselves sought the same courts’ protection from what they termed State harassment. Then Parliament declared that the Judiciary could not meddle in their jurisdiction since the role of the judges is to interpret the laws as made by the Legislature. They proceeded to treat with utmost contempt the orders from the Judiciary, placing injunctions on some anticipatory illegal statutes to be debated and passed into laws. All this while, political leaders and their respective parties were making disparaging remarks against the Judiciary and its officials, if not openly treating its declarations with contempt. As Kenyans neared the General Election, politicians derided the courts and openly declared their lack of faith in the judicial process. Matters came to a head when the election results were declared, and the losing side, NASA snidely claimed they only went to the Supreme Court to assist it to redeem itself from the previous “sins of omission in 2013”. However, it seemed they had expected nothing substantively just in the outcome of the appeal process. When the highest court in the land ruled in favour of NASA, the Jubilee brigade was quick to dismiss the court’s declarations as subversive and the product of a “wakora network”. The latest saga involving NASA leaders’ run-ins with the law enforcement agencies and the police ignoring courts’ restraining them or release orders, is a successful culmination of nascent efforts by persons, both individual and corporate, to erode the independence and powers of the Judiciary. Sometime late last year, I opined that the theory of three arms of government as independent checkmates and as practiced in Kenya was a fallacy. Kenyans have been consistently fed the lie based on academic theory that the government comprises three arms that are independent of each other and play oversight roles on each other to secure the freedom and security of the citizens. This is far from the truth since one arm of the government, the Executive, is vested with more responsibilities and powers than the other two. Further, the Executive arm has also annexed and assumed the responsibilities of the State, thus making the other two arms subservient to its authority. The Executive, as the domicile of the State function, is the benefactor of the Legislature and Judiciary and, therefore, treats both with despotic benevolence. These two institutions cannot, therefore, stand up to the head of the Executive, who enjoys the authority and powers of the State as well and in more measures than hitherto anticipated. The tragedy is that even the other two arms of government have been made to believe they are independent and enjoy equal authority and powers as the Executive. This is delusionary if not prevaricative. It is more within the structure of Kenya’s governance system than the personality of the government leaders that we will find where the soft underbelly of the Judiciary lies. Under ordinary circumstances, it is expected that judges will issue judicious determinations that will be enforced by impartial State agencies. This presupposes that these enforcement agencies are empowered sufficiently and adequately shielded from the vagaries of vested institutional and narrow partisan interests. Further, that the agencies have constitutional and juridical spheres of operation that are deployed for and in the best interests of the citizens and the good of the public. This is how the drafters of the 2010 Constitution envisioned the operations of the police. They proceeded to create provisions that sought to transform the police from a force to a service, and thus, in this regard, established the National Police Service. The NPS was established as a constitutional, independent institution responsible for the recruitment and overall human resource management of all the police officers. In fact, they brought together all the other formations that were armed, but not within the ranks of the defence forces under one command, the Inspector General of Police. The NPS went further, upon its constitution, to review the appointment of senior officers through vetting to weed out of the service officers who were tainted and not fit to continue serving. The transition period was quite tumultuous and the service faced many challenges, including internal sabotage from elements not happy with the reforms that appeared to upset the applecart. The external aggression agents represented more prominently by the al Shabaab terror group were another flank in the challenges that the NPS faced. This was soon after they got the first IG appointed and, almost immediately, the first Jubilee government assumed office under the new Constitution. Kenyans will remember the heinous and grim terror attacks at the Westgate Mall and Garissa University College that plunged the country into a state of horror and fear. The government was apprehensive that this state of affairs would create despondency and escalate the levels of insecurity. It, therefore, decided to find appropriate strategies to cut back on the potential threat to national security and restore the people’s confidence in the government. Using their Majority in Parliament, the Jubilee leadership pushed through a raft of amendments under the auspices of national security that brought the police under direct control of the government. The police was now more under the Interior Cabinet Secretary within the Executive than the President as head of State. These changes by the House effectively eroded the independence of the police as was envisaged in the Constitution. They were promptly challenged in court and the courts found them unconstitutional and declared them as such. Further, the court ordered they be suspended but the government chose to ignore the orders and proceeded to implement them as the election approached. These reforms were applied with even much more vigour after the repeat presidential election, ostensibly to deal with violent protests from the Opposition rank and file. This is the agency that the Judiciary expects to execute its orders. On this, the judges are being a little too ambitious! Increasingly, litigation against the government for one thing or the other, has seen judgment entered against them. Sometimes they are expected to execute court orders, including those that rub them up the wrong side. Worse are the instances when the government is found in contempt of court instructions. When a citizen is found guilty of contempt, the culprit is normally committed to serve some prison term or pay a fine as the Penal Code may provide. This provision applies to both the individual and corporate citizens. However, the challenge the courts face now is how to commit to jail a government official who defies judicial orders while doing the bidding of the Executive. Even more complicated is how the judges can compel the police to execute their orders if the Executive is not interested, enthusiastic or overly opposed to such orders. This is the dilemma facing the Judiciary as an arm of the government today. They are unhappy with how the Executive arm is treating them, yet there is nothing they can do. They wish to continue serving Kenyan citizens with commitment and dedication as before, but they heavily rely on the Executive arm for support. They issue orders indicting the Executive, when the latter infringes on the liberties of the citizens, yet they have no means of enforcing their various edicts. They have discovered, rather belatedly, that they are not as independent as generally celebrated; and that they have no such equal authority and powers as assumed in law. In the current circumstances, the Judiciary cannot effectively execute its mandate of an independent and dependable arbiter in conflicts. They may have the will, but grossly lack the wherewithal. In the public court, its authority and influence have been grossly eroded. The Judiciary is thus helpless and unhelpful within the context of Kenya’s political circus and upheaval. Maybe it is time citizens reassessed the place, value and true role of the Judiciary, instead of blindly spending inordinate amounts of funds on its upkeep. This will help contextualise and rationalise its institutional responsibility within our governance system and structure. 