Many adolescent girls in Kenya still face the risk of female genital mutilation by the age of 15. Out of every 10 girls in Kenya, two will have to undergo female genital mutilation. Yet it is still worse among certain communities in Kenya where nearly eight out of 10 women and girls have undergone the cut by the age of 15. Data by Unicef shows 200 million girls globally face the risk of FGM. Many of these girls are in sub-Sahara Africa. Picture the life of a girl, her biggest nightmare through childhood is to face the cut. All through her childhood, she is prepared for marriage. In some situations, this preparation starts as early as when she turns five. While her male counterparts are enjoying their childhood, playing and chasing each other around, she is out there fetching firewood in the bush. Such preparations are done as she awaits her day with the knife. Read: [VIDEO] Why I am against the cut: FGM survivors speak out From the scorching sun in Northern Kenya to the valleys of West Pokot, from the ‘miraa’ plantations in Eastern Kenya to the banana plantations in South West Kenya, from the rift valley down to the plains in the Maasai Mara we find diverse communities, different languages and dialects but still practice this harmful practice of FGM. Despite Kenya criminalising FGM with strict and tough legislation, girls are still subjected to this harmful practice. Our communities in deep secrecy continue to engage in ‘cultural ceremonies’ which torture girls and cut short their dreams to education. Girls in different counties of Kenya face the danger of loss of life, birth complications and other sexual reproductive health challenges that come because of FGM. Can we ever get to zero cases of FGM? It’s a possibility that our societies should pursue with utmost pessimism. Indeed it is achievable as the policy and legislative framework in Kenya is supportive. I strongly believe we can end FGM in this generation, not just in Kenya but globally. Our efforts must be directed first towards gender equality and accepting that human rights also apply to women. Indeed, FGM is a major violation of women’s right. This is a tested concept in Senegal- one of the African countries with rich traditions rooted to promote FGM. We have seen communities making declarations that no more girl in their villages will ever be taken through the cut. Such actions are very remarkable for 28 other nations where the practice is rooted for them to learn. How then can we eliminate FGM when some women are the ones who want it? This is a question asked mostly by men proponents of the act. Education and knowledge on effects of FGM will change the hardline positions held by men on this practice. Promoting girls’ education will ensure the next generation of women in our families are empowered enough to negotiate and stop their daughters from undergoing FGM. Most of us in our communities have experiences of complications that come with FGM.  This cut leads to death, complications during pregnancy, the spread of HIV/AIDS and even fistula. Read: How emerging tricks are derailing fight against FGM FGM shouldn’t be a taboo subject. End FGM conversations should be encouraged in our community spaces. Community elders, leaders and the local administration must be on the front line to advocate for zero tolerance to FGM. Adolescent girls should be in classrooms and given the opportunity to realize their full potential through education. Men shouldn’t shy away from talking about FGM, this isn’t just a women’s affair, but it affects the society. It’s only when we discuss it and its effects then we will hear no more cases. Education and knowledge remains to be the social vaccine towards achieving zero cases of FGM globally. Meshack Acholla is the communication person, The centre for the Study of Adolescents. Click here for the latest political news