“I don’t intend to change. I will talk to everyone. This weekend I will be out betting again.” Those were the words of 31-year-old Gordon Opiyo after he received a cheque for Sh230,742,881 yesterday from betting company SportPesa. Unlike ordinary days when he treks to catch a matatu from the country’s largest slum - Kibra - to the CBD, Opiyo was yesterday picked up in a sleek limousine and driven straight to the Carnivore Restaurant. But first to arrive was a convoy of boda boda riders chanting Opiyo’s name. This was no ordinary day, but a grand one to receive Sh231 million, the largest sum to be won so far through betting in Kenya’s history. Last year, Samuel Abisai landed Sh221 million. Accompanying the new millionaire was his wife Agnes Nasirumbi and their twins. Opiyo and Nasirumbi have been married for years. Nasirumbi was dressed in a shimmery checked bubble dress with a blue coat and low heeled black pumps. Their twin boys were dressed in jeans and casual checked shirts. The standard three boys are eight years old. Opiyo works at Kemri CDC as a field officer. He is on leave. Despite the surprise switch to the millionaires’ club, Opiyo, who was dressed in jungle green khaki pants, a casual T-Shirt and Reebok sports shoes, looked laid-back. Since he was announced the winner, he has received 4,000 calls, mostly from old friends. 17 matches Some had to come in person to witness the big handover. The red carpet was rolled out for Opiyo as part of the special treatment. And the crowd would occasionally chant his name, saying ‘Pesa otas!’ [money is paper!]. When the cheque was handed to Opiyo, his boda boda friends started dancing and pleaded with him to allow them to touch the cheque, saying it may bring good luck to them. Opiyo correctly predicted the outcome of 17 football matches to win last week’s SportPesa jackpot. The victory followed a live broadcast on Tuesday after game number 11 - Troyes vs Dijon - was postponed. He said he analyses the games by himself. When he was called on stage to receive the cheque, he requested the DJ to play ohangla music. They say when it rains it pours. And for Opiyo, this has been his week. After the Sh231 million jackpot win, Opiyo won another Sh200,000. Opiyo remained cagey on how he intends to spend the fortune, only maintaining he is an adult who can make sensible decisions. “I am a grown-up man. Why should I be told how to spend money that is mine?” SportPesa management said it will offer him financial and legal advice if he is interested. losing battle Opiyo said winning the jackpot does not mark the end of him betting. His advice is people should bet more, but not to the last coin. “Do not leave your work to go and start betting. If you have Sh100, bet using 50 bob then take the rest home,” he said. According to his wife, Opiyo has been betting since the game was introduced in Kenya. “At first I was not amused by it. I was very negative. Gordon would wake up in the middle of the night and begin to bet. I eventually got used to it because I realised I was just fighting a losing battle,” she said. She works as a clinic receptionist at Shinning Hope for Communities in Kibera. She said when Opiyo called to break the news, she was nervous. “At first I didn’t believe it until my workmates flooded my office,” she said. “When Gordon called at around 12.20 pm. He was very composed. From Sunday, he would tell me he knew he would win big. He even asked me whether I was prepared for a new life, but I just brushed him off,” she said. Read:[VIDEO] Limo and red carpets: Meet Sh221m SportPesa jackpot winner Samuel Abisai Also Read:Life about to take new shape - SportPesa Sh221m winner