Embu MCAs have accused the national government of “overburdening” Embu county with payment of salaries of former Eastern provincial officers. They criticised the national government for initiating projects without first seeking residents’ views. The county incurs a lot of expenses, and this undermines its development efforts, they said. The ward reps told the Commission on Revenue Allocation that the county is struggling to pay salaries of former provincial heads of department who are of no direct benefit to residents. They still serve the larger Eastern region, they said. Nominated MCA Margaret Kariuki questioned why Embu should pay the salaries, when the officers also serve the interests of Marsabit, Isiolo, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Kitui, Machakos and Makueni counties. She spoke to CRA commissioner Irene Koech. Speaker Josiah Thiriku attributed the huge wage bill to the decision by the county not to sack former provincial administration staffers. The county hired more workers to improve services, further increasing its recurrent expenditure. Thiriku promised to lead MCAs in engaging the CRA to negotiate for more funds to bridge the gap. The MCAs demanded that the CRA ensures the county is compensated so it can use the cash for growth projects. The wage bill has pushed development expenditure to below 30 per cent of the annual budget, Kariuki said. County assembly Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Robert Ireri lamented the “unwanted projects such as streetlighting in Embu towns that unnecessarily increase the recurrent expenditure”. He said such projects are not a priority for residents. Residents want piped water in their homes and electricity in their houses, Ireri said. He urged the CRA to advise the state to prioritise local needs, instead of coming up with ideas and implementing them without their input. Gaturi North MCA Paul Muchangi said Embu allocates less than 15 per cent of its annual budget to development because of the huge wage bill, but lies to the CRA that it allocated at least 30. Out of Sh4.1 billion the county gets from the national government, only about Sh900 million was used for development, she said. The MCAs said national government projects and programmes that required the county to allocate cash should involve public participation. They urged the Controller of Budget to stop pushing Embu to revise its recurrent expenditure from 47.3 per cent to 35 per cent. This is not tenable because the national government forces projects on the devolved unit, they said.