Third Way Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has torn into IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati for sending him explanations on a referendum, saying all he wanted was a meeting. In the document, commission chairman Wafula Chebukati refers to Aukot's letter dated February 14, on a proposed referendum to reduce the size of Parliament. Aukot has his eyes on leading Kenya and has formed a Shadow Cabinet whose members he termed ready to serve the people. When he unveiled the team on February 22, Aukot noted they were waiting for IEBC to invite them for talks on how to go about the collection of five million signatures to pave way for Constitutional amendments. Details: Aukot unveils 22 shadow Cabinet members 'with no integrity questions' In his response to Aukot's request, Chebukati noted a referendum will require amending Articles 6 (1) and 89 (1) of the Constitution. He tells the politician that the referendum procedure is clearly outlined in Articles 255-257 as read with sections 49 to 558 of the Elections Act. The chair adds: "As you are aware, the procedure under Article 256 is initiated through a parliamentary process while the procedure under Article 257 is by way of popular initiative." Chebukati further advises Aukot to consider whatever is relevant but he registered his displeasure in several tweets on Tuesday night, in which he termed the chairman incompetent. "See this idiotic response to our letter from [IEBC] and from the person of [Chebukati]. No wonder our electoral management body is pathetic," he wrote and tagged IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba. On the #OneNation Twitter page, Aukot went on to explain his position in sending the letter to the electoral agency. "My little knowledge of the letter by [Thirdway] to [IEBC] [is that it] was about requesting a meeting with the IEBC, not an explanation on how a referendum is done. It is this kind of things that erode the public confidence in IEBC," he said. "[This was] precisely the import of our letter. But a guy who came last in the interview, only to be awarded the top position, is unable to read our letter. I am not surprised at all." He continued: "I have said, and I repeat here that [Chebukati] isn't fit, suitable and competent to be chair of [IEBC]. He doesn't even qualify to be a commissioner. He is incompetent if he can't read a one-page letter." Aukot further accused Chebukati of "maliciously" excluding his name from the ballot papers after the Supreme Court ordered the repeat election. In the ruling on the matter in October last year, Justice John Mativo faulted the IEBC for locking out Aukot and ordered his inclusion in the repeat poll. The judge also ruled that the nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta's victory, following a petition by Nasa chief Raila Odinga, meant all eight candidates who ran on August 8 were eligible to run again More on this: Ekuru Aukot court ruling scuttles Raila Odinga plan Before the re-run, the party leader said the commission was incapable of a free and fair poll. He said the electoral body was "seriously incompetent" and did not command confidence from the public and added he was apprehensive that his name had not been configured into KIEMS kits. Read: IEBC cannot hold free, fair election - Aukot Chebukati was criticised severely following the disputed presidential election but he says he is keen on proper leadership and a trustworthy electoral system. The man with the toughest job in Kenya declared last October that he will not resign. Click here for the latest political news