I am at that age where every time I feel a bit under the weather, I look up the symptoms on Google and end up convinced I am on my last days, if that. Without going into an exact number, let’s just say I’m old enough not to qualify for a 25-year mortgage. The assumption here by many a lender is that at my age, I won’t be around that long to pay off the loan. But back to my hypochondria. One would imagine that being anxious about one’s health, and thinking of dying, is a bad thing. Well, it is, unless you turn the tables on what many would consider a neurotic condition. It takes years of practice, but once you get the hang of it, it is a cinch. Here’s how it works, for me. I wake up with, say, a sore throat and a slight headache. Now, most people would take a Paracetamol and maybe a throat lozenge and then wait and see what happens. I, on the other hand, take the Paracetamol, the throat lozenge, check my temperature, fire up my laptop and go straight to Google search to look up my symptoms. Naturally I then zero in on the worst possible search result, which in this case would be my symptoms vaguely resemble those of some terminal disease last seen in 1904 in the jungles of South America. At this point a normal hypochondriac would hyperventilate, then get teary-eyed, and then draft a guest list of the people to attend the funeral. I do none of these things. Instead, I get busy. You see, even though I’m convinced I have days, if not hours, to live, I turn into a whirlwind of activity, finishing up projects and getting things done like there is no tomorrow. And then, the next day, to my surprise, I wake up. I’m feeling better, maybe even completely cured, and, it turns out, I managed to get quite a lot done the previous day — more than I would have if I had not been under the impression that I was dying. It’s all about turning the negative into a learning experience. And what I’ve learned from my hypochondria is that thinking about dying is not the worst thing you can do with some of your free time. I’m sure to many right now, the idea of keeping death present in the mind sounds depressing, but that would be missing the point. Mediating on your mortality can be used to create priority and meaning. Many generations that have come before us understood that thinking about death can help one gain perspective and urgency, whereby you treat time as a gift, not be wasted on the trivial and vain. Memento mori — It means ‘Remember that you must die.’  It sounds scary, I know, but here’s how one Roman Stoic philosopher put it in practical terms: ‘Let us prepare our minds as if we’d come to the very end of life. Let us postpone nothing. Let us balance life’s books each day. … The one who puts the finishing touches on their life each day is never short of time.’ — Seneca (c. 4 BC – 65 AD). As you chew on that, you’ll have to excuse me as my knee is acting up, so I’m off to do a Google search on what that’s about.