The Catholic Church dedicates a day every year which it calls Vocations Sunday, on which they focus on recruiting more priests and nuns. The scripture chosen for the day is the story of Samuel hearing a voice calling him in the night, and twice waking up the older Eli until the latter divined it was the Lord calling the young man. Uhuru Kenyatta, like Samuel, is hearing a voice — that of history — and this is why those around him keep using the word ‘legacy’ since he won his second term as President. Indeed, it is why the President has put forth the Big Four Agenda to help secure his legacy. The Big Four agenda has good policy programmes. If well executed as conceptualised, they will spur manufacturing, boost job creation, create affordable housing and improve access to healthcare. The question is whether it is enough to discharge the historical burden of the presidency, and my answer is negative. Such an agenda is simply the work of the government. And while the scope and ambition of the President’s agenda is commendable and when successful will impact generations, history demands more of the presidency than just that. The President is required to identity and provide values and a sense of purpose for the country. The Big Four is the hardware, where is the software? When you consider the social and political context of this country — a young and often flailing democracy — the import of the leadership element of the presidency becomes even more critical. When the President hears the call of history, he must answer it on all fronts: Policy and leadership. He must not only drive the economy forward but also forge the character and spirit of the country, breathe new life and advance our democracy. If you ask any Kenyan, they will tell you Mwai Kibaki’s legacy was infrastructure — his administration built and rehabilitated roads across the country, including the Thika Super Highway and other bypasses. But that was only the hardware part of it. A failure to tackle corruption, impunity and to build a sense of nationhood allowed the saddest and most gruesome chapter of Kenya’s history to unfold under his watch. There are Kenyans who blame him for that phase. Ultimately, the 2010 Constitution came from the 2007-08 aftermath and in the end, his presidency will never be remembered only for the infrastructure alone or the Supreme Law but a mixed legacy of pain and progress. Uhuru is in a position to do better. When the Constitution says the President is a symbol of national unity, there are two ways to interpret this: The shallow way to do this is to think of the presidency as a passive monument automatically worthy of homage and respect, and the enriched and fulsome interpretation is to view the institution as an institution with an active responsibility to build bridges, inspire togetherness and drive a narrative of common ideals. Looking within is a good way to achieve this goal. What is the presidency about? What is it for? Who is it for? What values underpin the office? In essence, Uhuru is still running the presidency the same way his father did, the same way Moi and Kibaki did. Despite the new Constitution, a younger modern and more educated population and a changed world, its fundamentals have not changed. Our democracy has been challenged by violence, death and destruction and the highest office in the land has not changed — at least of its own volition.