Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is set to meet his Kilifi counterpart Amoson Kingi over latter’s push for a Coast
party. Joho told the Star that since
Kingi made the announcement, they have not discussed the matter. “Kingi and I have not spoken about the party but we will
consult. I will get to hear from my brother what the plans are,” Joho
told the Star on Monday. Last week, Kingi said Coast leaders will form their own
political party to push for their people's development agenda. Saying discussions on the new party had begun, the Kilifi boss also announced the region will go it alone in the 2022
General Election. The Star is reliably informed that top on the agenda during
the duo’s meeting with be the presidential race. They have both announced their presidential ambitions. It was latter agreed a retreat will
planned and one candidate fronted as Coast presidential candidate. The party of choice was made open, leaving room for
alliances and negotiations. However, in what appeared as a departure from Kingi's proposal, Joho  hinted that regional grouping will not be prioritised
ahead of 2022 polls. He said focus will remain on a “national party”. “What I know is that we (the two governors) will move forward
together. My strong feeling is that we will be in a national
party,” Joho said. Joho is the ODM national deputy leader while Kingi heads the Kilifi
branch. ODM has support base across the country, unlike any other
Coast outfit. Sources close to Joho divulged Kingi will be persuaded to
drop his clamor for Coast party. Compared to Kingi, Joho enjoys massive and a cult-like following in the region. His strong support for opposition leader Raila Odinga has endeared him to his Nyanza backyard. Joho was the only Coast governor who attended Raila's swearing. Critics have poked holes on the rushed move for a Coast
outfit, saying it’s a “uphill battle”. Faraj Mwangonme, the Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics vice chairman said
in-depth discussions are crucial as similar plans have flopped in the past. “Constitutionally, any political party must have followers
countrywide. We had Shirikisho and Kadu Asili parties, and it has been proved
it’s difficult to make them have a national outlook,” he said. He said the regional party ought to be used for political bargain. Kingi said most of the problems affecting residents can
only be addressed if the region has its own political party. “In 2022, we'll not join any party. We'll build our own
house with enough bedrooms to accommodate all of us. Borrowing from others has
brought us many problems,’’ Kingi said. 