Top Jubilee and NASA leaders in Parliament yesterday pledged to shoot down radical Bill that seeks to amend the Constitution to create a powerful Prime Minister and figurehead President. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale distanced the ruling Jubilee administration from the Bill sponsored by Jubilee-affiliate and Tiaty MP William Kamket (pictured) of Kanu. He said JP has nothing to do with the Bill. “When it finally comes to the House for debate, members will be allowed to express their will and decide its fate,” Duale said. Kamket, like any MP, is at liberty to come up with a private Bill, he said. Duale said Jubilee has not discussed the Bill and “if that was to happen, we shall communicate loud and clear as we’ve always done in our deliberations.” Read:Kamket's one-term presidency Bill not a Jubilee affair, says Duale Minority leader John Mbadi told the Star that the Bill requires national dialogue; hence, NASA lawmakers won’t support it, unless a proper process is followed. “One cannot wake up one morning and drop proposed amendments. We want comprehensive amendments to the Constitution on areas we have concerns,” he said. Mbadi reiterated that the Bill is a “waste of time” meant to divert attention on NASA’s serious reform issues on electoral processes, independence of the Judiciary, police service and the system of government. “The sponsor of the Bill has been sent by individuals who are looking for short-term gains of winning the 2022 election. This can’t be allowed in the Kenya of today,” the Suba South MP said. Majority Chief Whip and Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali urged Kamket to kick-start the collection of one million signatures from Kenyans for a referendum. He said Jubilee MPs will not be party to the process. “The sponsor of the Bill knows very well that it is not for Parliament to deal with the matter, but the public because it requires a referendum. He should have started collecting a million signatures,” Washiali said. Kamket is today expected before the House Budget and Appropriations Committee chaired by Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu) to scrutinise the impact of the Bill in terms of money the government is supposed to spend on it. Read:Jubilee MP drafts Bill to create PM position, one term presidency Also See:Jubilee in new bid to create powerful PM