A former American banker who blew the whistle on a tax evasion scheme testified yesterday that his signature was forged in documents used by a firm linked to the Anglo Leasing scandal. Bradley Birkenfeld blew the whistle on tax evasion by American citizens through Swiss Bank UBS. His signature appeared on a supplier’s finance agreement and documents for direct procurement as Infotalent Limited managing director. Testifying from Malta through a video link, Birkenfeld said he has never been an employee or director of the firm. He told principal magistrate Martha Mutuku he met Infotalent’s owners Deepak and Rashmi Kamani in 2002, while working for Swiss lender UBS and was their banker until 2006, when he resigned. Birkenfeld was among 13 individuals and firms charged with the loss of 40 million euros (Sh4.06 billion) through dubious contracts for the modernisation of police security equipment and accessories project in 2003 called E-Cops. The Infotalent deal was one of the 18 contracts in the Anglo Leasing scandal. Birkenfeld was initially marked as a fugitive and Kenyan authorities in March 2015 had sought to extradite him from America. But Kenyan authorities have struck him off the accused list and turned him into one of their key witnesses. Prosecutors Nicholas Mutuku and Victor Mule had asked Birkenfeld why his signature and home address appeared on crucial documents used to execute the Anglo Leasing contracts. Read:Kamani brothers summoned to court in Anglo-Leasing case The 53-year-old told Mutuku he was interviewed by Kenyan detectives in June 2015 in the presence of FBI officers and his lawyer. He said afterward, both the Kenyan and American officers present concluded his signature had been forged. “I provided Kenyan officers and FBI officers in the presence of my lawyer with a New Hampshire driving licence, my American Express credit card and the actual contract with my lawyer. I also signed multiple times to prove my signature had been forged. I had nothing to do with Infotalent whatsoever,” Birkenfeld said. Ahmednasir Abdullahi, representing the Kamanis, asked Birkenfeld whether he had received any money from Kenyan authorities in return for testifying against his clients. But Birkenfeld said he never received any money from Kenya or France, where he also testified against UBS. Also Read:Obure Anglo Leasing case set for February 17, court rejects more delays