Seven legislators and a deputy governor from Mt.Kenya have reassured deputy President William Ruto that voters from the populous region will support his Presidential bid in 2022. They said that Ruto sacrificed his ambitions both in 2013 and 2017 in favour of President Uhuru Kenyatta and hence 2022 would be pay back time. Speaking at Kambaa in Githunguri constituency during a burial ceremony on Wednesday, the law makers lashed out at former Gichugu MP Martha Karua and a section of leaders from the region for intimating that the DP should not expect to be automatically supported by voters from the area. They included Samuel Gachobe ( Subukia),Eric Kareba ( Runyenjes), Joseph Gichimu (Gichugu), James Githua(Kabete), Jonah Mburu(Lari), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South) and Gabriel Kago who hosted them besides Kiambu deputy governor James Nyoro. The leaders had attended the burial of sister in Christ Sarah Njeri Ndungu, 69, who was the wife of Bishop Cephas Wango who heads Church of Restoration church. Kago dismissed Karua as a spent force and a vengeful trouble shooter who harbours unrealistic grudge against the Jubilee administration. Karua had on Tuesday accused the government of chest thumping saying that for one to lead the country, they ought to marshal support from all corners of the country. She made the remarks in Githunguri with the same eliciting sharp criticism from Kiambu leaders present. Nyoro urged those with divergent issues regarding 2022 to keep them to themselves because they are personal opinions noting that voters in region would support Ruto since he is Uhuru's choice. He urged politicians to stop politicking and instead concentrate on development noting that 2022 politics should not be a hindrance to the country's growth and development. 'Let those who are making noise continue but majority of us are fully engaged with development matters which is why we were elected', he said. Kago said that the region would vote for Ruto as a bloc noting that he had since displayed unrivalled leadership qualities chief among them bridging tribal gaps amongst different tribes in the country. Gichugu MP said that voters from the area are solidly behind Ruto adding that the jubilee administration had initiated and continued initiating development projects across the country including in the opposition zones. John Kiarie of Dagoretti South said that Jubilee Party would prevail upon Uhuru to be it's chairman after 2022. He said that owing to the fact that the President will leave office at his most active age, his services will be highly required by the party. All the other legislators echoed him and expressed the hope that Uhuru would not turn their request down.