Mombasa governor Hassan Joho was a hard miss at NASA boss Raila Odinga's 'swearing-in' on Tuesday. The stylish county chief stuck out at Nairobi's Uhuru Park, presenting himself as a hero-like loyalist who can't desert his master in times of need, according to observers. Joho's fiery nature and endeavours as ODM deputy leader have thrust him into 2022 succession politics, according to observers. Lawmakers from the orange party, whose leader is Raila, feel he is the perfect replacement for Kalonzo Musyoka who backed out in a "cowardly fashion" at a crucial hour. The Wiper leader has explained that security challenges forced him, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) to miss the event. He was to be sworn-in as the people's deputy president. More on this: Is Kalonzo home raid a crutch for absence at Raila swearing-in? Jubilee-leaning politicians and commentators alike admit the ODM deputy boss can blend well with deputy president William Ruto. Just like Ruto in 2007, Joho stood with Raila at a defining moment on Tuesday. Unlike Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula, he did not funk out. Ruto supported Raila vigorously during and after the 2007 election. Despite a bloody aftermath, the former Eldoret North MP did not turn yellow. Through his resilience and ambition for Raila's presidency, Ruto ensured the now 'people's president' became the Prime Minister in the 2008 post-election coalition government. And Raila has admitted that his efforts led to the formation of the grand coalition government. Joho, on the other hand, lived up to his public statements to support Raila no matter what. More on this: Ruto was nusu mkate mastermind, no Al Ghurair and OT-Morpho, says Raila Also read: I was 'nusu mkate' mastermind but your bad behaviour frustrated us, Ruto tells Raila  'No returning favours' Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo has hinted at a plan by ODM for Joho to be a president or DP candidate. She said in 2022, ODM will not be obligated to support Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula as had been planned. "I have exhaled ... 2022 is equal to no obligation. No 'kuridisha mkono (returning favours). Man-Joho you were present," she posted on his Facebook page. In 2017, ODM contemplated going alone. Majority backed Joho to be Raila's deputy but Wiper, Ford Kenya and Amani National Congress got jittery. But Simon Adalla, who vied for Nyali MP and is a Ruto ally, noted a high possibility for Joho to be Ruto's number two when president Uhuru Kenyatta leaves State House. With Raila owing other principals nothing after the "betrayal", Adalla said he can decide to be a king-maker pushing a Ruto-Joho candidature. Raila reportedly told Ruto he needs him to win the presidency but Salim Lome, Raila's aide, asserts the media misinterpreted the statement. Adalla noted the governor has proven his political instincts are worthy and that he is loyal to the party. "He stands amongst the gainers in this political matrix that has been unfolding and whose climax will be attained in the next few days," he stated after Raila lifted the Bible on Tuesday. "Ruto acted very presidential by allowing NASA to conduct their function without open government interference. We can't deny him credit since he was the acting president [with Uhuru's absence]."  'Ruto has gained points with NASA' Adalla further said Ruto's actions have "earned him a few bonga points" with Nasarites, a term used to refer to supporters of the National Super Alliance who are on a difficult journey to the 'promised land of 'Canaan'. There was fear of a police crackdown so their withdrawal from Uhuru Park amused some. Regarding the absence of Raila's co-principals, Adalla said it pointed is a pointer to the dismantling of the coalition or full restructuring. "In the event of a collapse, Ruto will be keen to make inroads in Ukambani and Western and take advantage of the let-down by the regional kingpins." With Mt Kenya's backing for Ruto uncertain, the Coast which is commanded by Joho can be a suitable option. Central leaders, some keen to punish the DP after failing to secure Jubilee tickets, have said their support for him is not guaranteed. Meanwhile, it appears ANC will not be interested in a NASA alliance as 2022 draws closer. The Star exclusively reported Mudavadi's party will approach Gideon Moi's KANU closer to 2022 with a view to working out an alliance. A Mudavadi-Moi candidature is thus anticipated. Click here for the latest political news 