The official actions of our leaders are only as good as the quality of the people whom they trust as advisers on a day-to-day basis. It is only fair that we make it public that, in spite of ANC taking positions on various issues as a party, sometimes these positions or their implementation, get informally reviewed by some individuals who enjoy the trust of our Party Leader. While I am aware that our party leaders have said they will issue a collective statement as the NASA Principals on exactly what happened on Tuesday, it would appear that there were forces around the Leader that were personally not comfortable with the decision taken on the Presidential Oath ceremony and had been lobbying anyone and everyone to support their position to scuttle our official plans for that day. The undermining of the collective NASA decision on the Oath was not just by chance made on 30th January; it started much earlier. Some of you may even have seen personal opinions contrary to the NASA and ANC party position published in newspaper columns by some of the individuals I am making reference to. Our Party Leader was failed by a cabal around him that is opposed to him building his profile as a national leader who needs to work with other leaders across Kenya in order to reform our national governance and ensure that every qualifying Kenyan has an equal opportunity, including Hon Musalia Mudavadi, to compete for and assume the national Presidency. You will remember how our Party Leader changed his position just before the elections of 2002, when he was at such a vantage point in the matrix of the leadership of Kenya. The forces that always seek to review the wise decisions he makes were responsible for that miscalculation, and it was for their own personal gain. Our Party Leader paid a high price for it. Fast-forward to 2012/2013 and you will see the work of these forces in the decisions that were made. Our Party Leader made a brave decision, under difficult circumstances, to have a go at the national Presidency. With hindsight knowledge, one can say that a better strategy would have obtained if he had access to better advice that is not motivated by the personal interests of individuals who form the cabal I have talked about. The writer is the ANC secretary General