Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday said he was ready to be sworn in as the ‘People’s Deputy President’. Kalonzo denied he skipped Raila Odinga’s swearing-in last week because he was a coward. He said it was NASA’s strategy for Raila to take oath alone to allow the other co-principals ‘fight for them’ in case of police crackdown. Security officers were withdrawn from Uhuru Park to avert a possible clash with NASA supporters. Speaking after chairing the party’s National Executive Council meeting, Kalonzo said there are outstanding issues which must be addressed before he is sworn in. Read:I haven't betrayed you, will take oath soon, Kalonzo tells supporters The former Vice President admitted there were deep-rooted wars within NASA occasioned by his decision to skip the oath event. A number of Opposition MPs, especially from the ODM party, have openly criticised Kalonzo and NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula for snubbing the swearing-in fete. They have urged Raila to ditched his co-principals and court new political friends outside the alliance. “We need to put our house in order before I take the oath,” Kalonzo said. He denied media reports suggesting a division in the Opposition. “We are in NASA to stay and not as reported in the media,” Kalonzo said. Kalonzo said NASA will on Friday hold a crucial meeting of all its elected leaders to address some of the thorny issues that have rocked the alliance. Affiliate parties are expected to meet separately today and tomorrow ahead of the joint Friday meeting. “How I wish I was able to do it (take oath) right now. Taking oath is not an issue. We are not cowards,” Kalonzo said. He said the NASA Summit was handling his oath taking plans and will soon announce when he will be sworn in.”We will have a meeting as NASA family to discuss some of the small things that spilled out during the moment of anger,” Wiper chairman Kivutha Kibwana said. The Makueni governor said NASA affiliate parties owe Kalonzo support in 2022 according to the agreement signed prior to last year’s General Election. Kalonzo cautioned against 2022 talk, saying focus should instead be on sorting out the 2017 political mess. “If we don’t sort out the current case then the 2022 election will be useless because it will still be stolen,” Kalonzo said. Read:I'm not a coward, Nasa to solve issues before swearing-in, says Kalonzo Also Read:ODM hijacked Raila and Kalonzo swearing-in plans, Wiper says Click here for the latest political stories 