Nairobi Water volleyball teams (men and women) have been disbanded ahead of the Kenya Volleyball Federation national league set for March 23-25 at Bungoma High School grounds. This was made clear when KVF organising secretary, Ismail Chege, omitted the water teams from the first leg fixtures on Tuesday. The women’s team joined the league in 2012 while their male counterparts came on board in 2014. This is after the women’s team who had qualified for the play-offs last season gave the event a wide berth with players accusing the new management at the company of not facilitating them to the event which was hosted in Mombasa. The Water teams exit paves way for new comers Western Bombers to take up their position. Although the men’s team made it to the play-offs in 2016, they failed to honour the final leg of the regular season last year in Baringo County—a sign that all was not well. Women’s coach Patrick Owino said he saw it coming and advised players to sign for other clubs. “It’s the end of the road for Nairobi Water teams. I am just happy that some of the players have so far signed up for other clubs. As for me, I will continue supporting the sport the best way I know how and hopefully, I will get a club to coach in future,” said Owino. Meanwhile, Kenya Defence Forces, Director of Criminal Investigation and Ashton will make their maiden appearance in the women’s league while Bungoma County make a come back having missed out last season. The four will join regulars and champions Kenya Pipeline, Kenya Prisons, Kenya Commercial Bank, Mt Kenya University and Western Bombers who joined the league last season. In the men’s league, Equity Bank, Kericho County and Nakuru will make a debut in the league while Bungoma County will return to the league after missing out last season. The four will be challenging for the title against champions General Service Unit, Prisons, Kenya Ports Authority, Cooperative Bank, Kenya Defence Forces, Prisons Mombasa, Western Prisons, Vihiga County, Forest Ranger, Prisons Nairobi, Administration Police and Mt Kenya University.