The committee Nairobi governor Mike Sonko appointed to audit Sh60 billion pending bills has 90 days to table its report. The county is grappling with unpaid debts to creditors that amount to more than Sh60 billion. Sonko said on Monday that the team should come up with its own working modalities. “They should be able to complete their investigation and give us recommendations in their final report," he said. The county boss appointed the team to look into huge amounts of “questionable" pending bills that accumulated over the years.  The debts are supposedly for goods and services rendered to previous administrations. Sonko said individuals or companies found culpable of scheming to swindle the city out of millions, for goods and services that were not supplied, will face the full wrath of the law. “We are aware of massive graft at the City Hall that I inherited from the previous regime. That is why we have put up measures to curb it," he noted. “This is the reason why we were able to collect Sh1.6 billion as revenue for the month of January alone and I am sure we will do better in future." The governor said he will only settle genuine debts. “The task force will verify and validate details of each pending bill and advise the Nairobi government accordingly. This will enable the county to pay genuine claims." More on this: Sonko wants more time to clear Sh60bn city debts, blames Kidero Related: Why county audit funds are withheld The audit will be done
by individuals from professional bodies led by the Kenya National Audit Office,
which is under the Auditor General. “Kenao can advertise
and competitively recruit either PwC, Deloitte or KPMG to be include in the team
to help them in the investigations,” Sonko said when he appointed the team of 10 last Friday. It includes representatives
of the Auditor General, the Public Procurement Oversight Authority and the
Ethics and anti-Corruption Commission. Other members are the principal secretary in the state department of public works, CEO of the Institute of
Certified Public Accounts and the secretary general of the Supreme Council of Kenya
Muslims. The secretary general of the National Council of Churches of Kenya, the Nairobi clerk, former LSK
boss Erick Mutua and Patrick Lumumba and the Kenya School of Law director will also participate. Click here for the latest political news