EALA MP Mpuru Aburi has said he has no bad blood with former Meru Governor Peter Munya — now the East African Community and Northern Corridor Development CS. Munya was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to the Cabinet after he lost to Kiraitu Murungi in the August 8 governor race. Aburi and Munya have been embroiled in near-two-decade-old rivalry. Munya twice defeated Aburi in the Tigania East MP race in 2002 and 2007, before he successfully run for governor in 2013. Last week, Aburi chastised Munya for declaring his interest in the 2022 presidential race. He said the CS is not fit to be President and added that the Meru community would back DP William Ruto. In the last election, Aburi backed Murungi and campaigned against the former county chief. But on Saturday, the vocal legislator changed tune and is keen to endear himself to Munya. He told residents that he lost his seat because he was busy campaigning for Murungi. Munya had a strong following in the constituency, he said. “We were called by President Uhuru. He said he had ended Munya-Kiraitu rivalry by giving Munya a state job. He asked Munya and I to end our political squabbles, as we were not seeking the same seat and he had ensured I was elected EALA member,” Aburi said in Mikinduri, Tigania East, during his thanksgiving party. He said Uhuru “talked sense and I decided to stop” frequent bickering over politics. Aburi said their supporters must also “accept and move on”. “We’ve been political rivals from 2002, when I first unsuccessfully vied for Tigania East MP. There is no need of taking that rivalry into a foreign country since Munya is EAC CS and I’m EALA member,” he said. Aburi was instrumental in urging Murungi to run for governor after the former senator fell out with Munya. He urged Tigania East MP Josphat Gichunge to concentrate on his role as MP, instead of politicking. “He should follow up on projects initiated but are yet to be fully implemented,” Aburi said. Several politicians attended the ceremony. They included Third Way alliance leader Ekuru Aukot, Murungi, North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood, Igembe Central MP Kubai Kiringo and Buuri MP Mugambi Rindikiri. They called for nationwide unity. Jubilee leaders pledged to support Ruto in 2022. Murungi urged Kenyans to stop divisive and retrogressive politics and instead advocate development.  “We’re grateful to President Uhuru and DP Ruto for Cabinet appointments of Munya and Margaret Kobia [Gender and Sports],” he said.