Title: Black Panther: The Album Artiste: Various Artistes Genre: Hip hop/rap, R&B Release: February 9  If you’ve not watched one of the most anticipated films of the century, Black Panther, then you probably need to book a session at the nearest cinema. But before that, you ought to listen to its equally hyped soundtrack album. It’s splendid, the kind of compilation you’d pit against other masterpieces to be considered for recognition in the Grammys or something. Truly, the approach is where the details of its brilliance lie. Director Ryan Coogler found it logical to incorporate the creative process of an inventive black American rap artiste to put together a soundtrack that would complement the film’s black superhero concept. Well, Kendrick Lamar was the best-suited pick for production and curation of the 14-track compilation, at least assisted by the Top Dawg CEO Anthony Tiffith. One thing you need to know is the full-length LP is built to stay true to the Wakandan thematic concept. There are moments in the tracks that borrow greatly from the authentic African sound, with drums and tribal ululations being heard at various instances. Undeniably, the album is standout made up of tracks that offer high concepts from artistes who easily combine track after track. R&B star SZA joins Kendrick Lamar on “All The Stars”, while ScHoolBoy, 2 Chainz and Saudi team up to execute the charged, club-destined, trap hiphop track “X”. Khalid and Swae Lee are among the best contributions, offering lyrics on “The Ways”. Also featured on the LP is a stellar guest list featuring Ab Soul, Anderson .Paak, James Blake, Zacari, Babes Wodumo, Mozzy, Sjava, Reason, Travis Scott and The Weeknd. From this picks, you can clearly tell that Kung Fu Kenny was going for the best in the scene. What’s even better is that in the entire 49 minutes, we get to experience his endless offerings, both subtle and salient. And to a reasonable extent, it feels more like a usual Kendrick project rather than a soundtrack project with Kendrick in it. One certain quality that the Black Panther film has is conviction, which is greatly augmented by the involvement of a genius on its soundtrack. You can tell there’s a genuine passion exhibited by most artistes if not all, but what’s even better is that Kendrick does it like he’s done it with his masterworks.  Star Rating: 4/5  Star rating: 4 out of 5 