At least 141 Nasa MPs have sued the government for withdrawing their security and revoking their firearm licences. The state withdrew the legislators' security over their involvement in Raila Odinga's unofficial oath on Tuesday last week. The MPs, in the petition filed at the Milimani court on Monday, say they want the court to
suspend the decision until the matter is determined. They argue that the move puts their lives at risk and curtails their constitutional
function as MPs. "On the whole, the impugned decisions are
unlawful, arbitrary, irrational, unreasonable, unfair and
made in bad faith." The legislators further argue that this is contrary to the rules of natural justice and in
violation of their rightful and legitimate expectations. The MPs claim that on January 30, police
officers attached to their detail received oral communication requiring them
to return to their respective stations. According to them,
the government did not and has not given reasons for the decision to
withdraw their security. "The decision solely targets members of the Nasa coalition and therefore, is in bad faith, discriminatory and partisan," they say. "It is a violation of
provisions of the constitution which entitles every person to equality
and freedom of discrimination." Through their lawyer
Peter Kaluma, the petitioners further argue that that Inspector General Joseph Boinnet did
not take into account necessary and relevant considerations including
the fact that the provision of security is a duly gazetted right of state
officers serving in parliament. In his affidavit filed in court,
Kaluma says he was not heard before the decision to revoke his
firearm was made, which is against the law. The MPs have sued Boinnet alongside the Firearm Licensing Board and secretary Samwel Kimaru. Last
week, justice George Odunga ordered the police to reinstate Dagoretti
North MP Simba Arati’s security and his firearm license certificate. Read: Talk to Uhuru about NASA security withdrawal, Junet asks Muturi Related: State withdraws Joho's security after Raila swearing-in Also read: I feel vulnerable but supporters will protect me, Raila says on security Click here for the latest political news