NASA lawmakers yesterday questioned the legality of Jubilee’s move to replace Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen as the Parliamentary Environment and Natural Resources Committee vice chairperson. He was replaced by Sophia Noor of Ijara. Bowen was present during the voting, which was presided over by House Clerk Michael Sialai. Bura MP Ali Wario and his Bomet counterpart Joyce Korir were declared the duly elected chair and vice chair of the Labour and Social Welfare Committee. Wario replaced Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter, while Korir replaced Ford Kenya’s Catherine Wambilianga. Keter was not present. On Monday, the National Assembly Liaison Committee chaired by Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi adopted a resolution that led to the removal of Moiben MP Silas Tiren (Agriculture), Embakasi North MP James Gakuya (Broadcast) and Keter (Labour), Wambilianga (Labour) and Bowen (Environment) from their leadership posts. The committee also instructed Sialai to conduct fresh elections for the positions. Yesterday, four opposition MPs – Rosa Buyu (Kisumu Woman Rep), Paul Nzengu of Mwingi North, Benjamin Tayari of Kinango and Ong’ondo Were of Kasipul walked out in protest. They claimed Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali had illegally replaced three members who were absent during the voting. The NASA legislators said the grounds for replacement were inconsistent with the provisions of the Standing Orders. “The Speaker is a human being and is prone to error. It does not mean that if he signs, any illegality becomes legal. The country has been treated to too much illegalities and such cannot be brought to Parliament,” Buyu said. Washiali had written to National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, seeking permission to appoint three MPs to sit on behalf of their colleagues. In the letter approved by Muturi, Washiali had appointed MPs Ali Fatuma of Wajir to act in the absence of Rehema Hassan of Tana River, who was taking care of a sick person. Kipseget Koros of Sigowet-Soin was to stand in for Hassan Odha of Isiolo North, who said he was away in the constituency on urgent matters. Mohammed Mohamud of Wajir South was to replace Ali Deddy of Laikipia East, who said he was away attending to a sick relative. Click here for the latest political news