Deputy President William Ruto has defended the new Sh203 billion Eurobond and external borrowing saying the cash will be spent on development, not scandals. Kenya announced the successful pricing of a new $2 billion (Sh203billion) Eurobond transaction on Thursday. More on this: Kenya secures Sh203 billion in new Eurobond President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto's tenure so far has been plagued with corruption scandals that have alarmed the public. Leaders often promise to deal ruthlessly with the vice but big-fish convictions remain a dream. Ruto spoke of the new Eurobond on Friday, during the commissioning of Kiawara-Nairutia and Karai-Babito roads at Kiawara in Kieni, Nyeri County. "...sisi kama serikali ya Kenya ni watu waadilifu. Tukienda kukopa tunakopa kama tumepima vizuri," he said. This loosely translates to: "The government observes integrity. We conduct analyses before borrowing." The DP added they consult and ensure the debts can be repaid. "...tumepima na tukapata tuko na uwezo wa kulipa. Hatuwezi enda kukopa pesa ovyo ovyo. Sisi tunaelewa nini inaendelea sehemu hii (We examined the circumstances and found we are able to repay the debt. We cannot borrow carelessly. We understand what is going on in Kenya)." Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the issue was oversubscribed seven times. This means Kenya only wanted Sh203 billion but attracted Sh1.4 trillion. Rotich said the funds will be for the government's development initiatives and liability management. Eurobond matters often revive the corruption conversation in Kenya, following controversies regarding one of Sh250 billion. In May 2016, then-DPP Keriako Tobiko said there was no evidence to support the alleged theft of this cash. But Tobiko directed the office of the Auditor General to carry a special review of the development projects that were implemented by ministries, departments, and agencies. More on this: "No evidence" of Sh250 billion Eurobond theft claim - Tobiko Also read: Blow to Eurobond bid after Moody’s lowers Kenya’s rating Click here for the latest political news