Central Bank is on the spot following Bloomberg's report of IMF's withdrawal of a standby credit facility of $1.5 billion (Sh152 billion). Bloomberg claims this happened in June 2017 but that CBK continues to say the funds are available. The article states that the Washington-based lender, which has a delegation visiting Kenya this week, removed permission to tap the precautionary financing after the government failed to meet budget-deficit targets attached to the agreement. "It’s the first time the withdrawal of access has been made public," reads the article. According to Bloomberg, International Monetary Fund Country representative Jan Mikkelsen the said adjustments that were needed to meet the targets were “insufficient and follow-up discussions on the review were postponed due to the long election period". He said the second review of the programme was not completed. "As a result, access to the precautionary resources has not been available since mid-June 2017,” Mikkelsen told the news agency. Statements by the Central Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee, after its past four meetings, have referred to the availability of the standby facility. Communication from the committee in January, according to the article, said the funds “continue to provide an adequate buffer against short-term shocks in the foreign-exchange market.” The article reports the facility comprised a $990 million arrangement repayable with interest over five years, and a $495 million, interest-free credit repayable over eight years. It is said the facility was approved by the IMF in March 2016 and Kenya granted access if it faced “exogenous shocks” that would result in a balance-of-payments crisis. The agreement required the country to narrow the budget deficit to 3.7 per cent of gross domestic product in the 2018-19 budget year. The aim was to reduce the risk of debt distress while providing space for spending priorities. The shortfall is projected to reach 7.2 per cent in the year that ends June 30, and six per cent in 2018-19, according to Treasury. Writer Adelaide Changole said the government has requested a new IMF programme to replace the existing one that expires in March. Mikkelsen said: "An IMF mission began a visit to Kenya this week to discuss its replacement. Key issues for discussion include measures to reduce the fiscal deficit to ensure a sustainable debt path and measures to promote credit growth to the private sector. “On the latter, as previously noted, the IMF does see the interest rate controls as an important constraining factor. Also, the interest rate controls make it more difficult to manage monetary policy effectively”. Mikkelsen told Bloomberg that Kenya’s foreign-exchange reserve position remains comfortable throughout and sufficient to address potential shocks in the near-term. He said the reserves stood at $7.18 billion on February 9, enough to cover 4.8 months of imports, according to central bank data. Details: IMF to engage with Kenya on existing Sh154.6 billion credit facility Click here for the latest political stories   