The Opposition will hold its inaugural People’s Assembly end of February to push for, among other things, a fresh presidential election in August. NASA’s People’s Assembly coordinating committee headed by economist David Ndii yesterday gave a roadmap of activities the alliance will engage in until they restore ‘electoral justice’. The Opposition has self determination and power-sharing through creation of the office of the Executive Prime Minister, should its push for the new poll hit a snag. Ndii’s team is pushing for a rotational presidency amongst Kenya’s 42 communities. “We plan to convene the inaugural National Convention at the end of February. The resolutions of the National Convention will be validated by the people through a referendum. Our goal is to see the People’s Assembly culminate in a presidential election under a new electoral regime no later than August,” Ndii said. “The Convention will inaugurate the national leadership that will support The People’s President in this most solemn of national duties.” The Opposition’s three main agenda during the national convention will be electoral justice, restructuring the state and strengthening and defending devolution. NASA will hold five pending regional assemblies meetings across the country ahead of the inaugural convention in Nairobi. NASA is yet to hold meetings in Central, Kisii, Rift Valley and northern Kenya regions. Prior to Raila Odinga’s oath, the alliance held assemblies in Western, Coast, Lower Eastern and Nyanza. The committee will announce the dates for the pending meetings. Speaking at Okoa Kenya offices in Lavington, Ndii said their actions are insulated by law and is the only constitutional means to reclaim people’s sovereignty. “The Constitution leaves citizens free to decide how to exercise sovereignty directly. Our answer to this is The People’s Assembly,” he said. Ndii was with other committee members Oduor Ong’wen, Koitamet Olekina and head of People’s Assembly secretariat Noah Akala. Also Read: NASA in quest for new presidential poll in August Click here for the latest political news