The government, in conjunction with World Bank, will spend Sh20 billion to improve the quality of education in 30 counties. The six-year project will focus on improving retention of learners in primary school and transition to secondary school.Targeted in the project dubbed Secondary Education Quality Improvement Project are  9,999 institutions — 7,852 primary schools and 2,147 secondary schools in 110 subcounties.Under the project, Standard Seven and Eight and forms One to Four in targeted schools will get textbooks for the core subjects to ensure the student-textbook ratio of 1:1. About 1.2 million students will get textbooks, while 18,000 will get scholarships. Some 37,500 will get school kits.new structuresLaboratories, classrooms and dormitories will be built in 3,000 primary and 1,000 secondary schools. World Bank will support the rolling out of the new curriculum in Standard Four, Five and Six. It will also avail education and curriculum experts to the Kenya Institute for Curriculum Development.The programme will ensure each of the selected schools have basic structures, including classrooms, laboratories, library, toilets, water facilities and electricity. A World Bank Mission led by Education specialists Huma Waheed and Ruth Charo met Education PS Belio Kipsang at the Ministry of Education headquarters at Jogoo House. They expressed satisfaction with the level of preparedness to roll out the project. Kipsang said all agencies involved in the project should harmonise their activities and operations to achieve the project objectives and goals.He said the project’s success will address skill gaps that hurt educational. Huma said it is important to ensure all project activities are centered on student learning.All operations and activities should be geared towards strengthening learning.  Apart from recruitment and deployment of teachers by the TSC to the targeted schools to address shortage, the project will also see the strengthening of national examinations and assessment systems at the Kenya National Examinations Council.The strengthening of the national examinations and assessment systems follows adoption of the competence-based curriculum under Knec. It will assess the effectiveness of teaching skills. Click here for the latest political news