Three mentally-in patients disappeared and another, who was
in remission, relapsed after Nairobi county officials evaded and
closed Eden Rehabilitation Centre at City Park last Friday. Tonny Njeru, Eden's
treatment director, said three other patients were seen
wandering around City Park yesterday while four others - who were in
stable condition - went back home. There were 15 recovering addicts at
the facility when it was raided; others were transferred to a
facility in Parklands. "We are trying to find out where the three
are but for sure, it is a hectic task. We just don't know why the county
did this to us and to the poor patients," Njeru said. The raid
has caused an uproar with the county being accused of inhumanely
evicting the patients from the premises. The county officers carted
away property in a lorry and handcuffed patients. Njeru
said the officers destroyed everything, including medicines which the
patients were taking. He said the county gave them a verbal eviction
notice three months ago adding that the centre managers have been trying to formally engage the
county in vain. Njeru dismissed claims they were given a fake allotment letter saying the organisation has been paying rent to an environment
officer who sublet the office to them. Governor Mike Sonko, in a statement on Sunday, said the organisation was given a fake allotment letter by officials who served in the Governor Evans Kidero administration. He directed the NGO to close down their centre at City Park and look for an alternative place. Read: Closed Eden House rehab was on grabbed City Park land - Sonko However, Njeru said they have been operating on a formal agreement with the officer who has been their landlord for the time they have operated at the premises. But Lands CEC Peter Njunguna said an environmental officer, who
was assigned the house many years ago, sublet it to the rehab centre
without the knowledge of the county government. He said this was known after the house was assigned to another officer. "The
new officer who was supposed to occupy the house learned that it was in deed
a rehab centre. So, he decided to evict the occupants so that he could
move in." Njuguna said that he stopped the new officer from occupying the house and
invited the management of the centre to City Hall for a meeting. "The governor personally ready to help them that is why we have invited them to come so that we do things formally," he said. Click here for the latest political news