Kapseret
MP Oscar Sudi wants Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to drop his
presidential ambitions and start backing DP William Ruto
ahead of the 2022 elections. Sudi says all Rift Valley
leaders agreed to stand with Ruto, as Uhuru Kenyatta will rule for only five more years, so nobody can make different moves. "We will not be told that just because we backed President Kenyatta, who is the son of a former President, we must also back Gideon because
he is also son of another former president. Gideon must learn to
support other leaders", he said at Simat in Uasin Gishu County on Friday. Uhuru is the son of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta while Gideon is the son of second President Daniel arap Moi. Related: I could back DP Ruto in 2022, says Gideon Moi The MP claimed "external forces" were being used to sabotage the Deputy President in the region. "We know some leaders are given money to send here and joke with the DP. Let them know that if they want to be tricksters, we can also be tricksters. We know game, " he said. "The region must support Ruto. Any people who try going in the Opposite direction [should know] we will meet them." Meanwhile, two groups of youth leaders in Rift Valley are
tussling over who - between Ruto and Gideon - is
best suited to succeed Uhuru in 2022. Ruto says it is too early to think about the next general election but this has not stopped speculation about outcomes. He and the Kanu boss agreed to work together despite their rivalry to control the vote-rich Rift Valley. More on this: DP Ruto and Gideon Moi bury the hatchet, pledge to work together Rift Valley Youth Brigade says it supports the DP as he is best placed to be Kenya's next ruler and already has a clear political and development track record in the region. “Those talking of Gideon Moi are students
who are yet to understand the dynamics of politics in this country," group chairman Bob
Kibichy said at a meeting in Eldoret yesterday. Kibichy said they were already working on strategies for campaigns for Ruto. “We are not worried at all because we know the DP is
a national leader and that he is not in the same league as those who are
only known in their counties." The chairman said those backing Gideon, who is Kanu party's national chairman, should keep off politics and focus on their studies. "We ask our young brothers and sisters to concentrate on their studies
and learn politics with time," said Kibichiy, who vied for the Ainabkoi MP
seat last year. The youth group terms Ruto the only Rift Valley kingpin and says all residents must therefore back him. But last Sunday, another group of youth leaders from the
region said Gideon was the better option. The caucus, with representatives of more than 15 counties, said
although they have no problem with Ruto, they believe the MP has the best
qualities. “He represents the interests of the
youth and has a national image, which is liked by many Kenyans,” chairman Allan
Mulwa said. Mulwa noted it is their democratic right to support legislators of their choice. Read: Gideon Moi best suited to succeed Uhuru, not DP Ruto, says youth leaders Click here for the latest political news