Irregular water supply and the high number of dysfunctional fire hydrants have been cited as City Hall’s major challenges in responding to fire outbreaks in the county. The Star has established that only 103 out of the 4,044 hydrants are operational, bringing to the fore the county’s lack of preparedness to handle disasters. The hydrants are scattered across the subcounties. None of those in Lang’ata function. The magnitude of the problem was witnessed on Sunday last week when fire broke out in the Kijiji informal settlements in Lang’ata. FOUR KILLED Four fire engines which responded to the tragedy ran out of water and had to be driven back to the city centre for refilling. Governor Mike Sonko has suspended the director in charge of the fire department Brian Kisali, accusing him of negligence and poor response to the incident. Four people were killed in the inferno that left more than 6,000 others homeless. The Star also established that the hydrants, initially under the fire department, are now managed by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company. NCWSC acting managing director Nahashon Muguna confirmed that most of the hydrants are not functional. “The biggest problem we are facing is water shortage. They are integrated problems that need to be addressed from the baseline,” Muguna said. “The entire system relies on pressure. The sensors in the system rely on pressure for water to be pumped. But that becomes a challenge when there is water rationing.” NEW FIRE STATIONS Attempts to have Sonko’s office comment on the matter failed, despite promises to respond. The Kenya County Government Workers Union has criticised City Hall for failing to tackle the challenges firefighters face. “The county is not addressing the underlying issues. If there was no fire hydrant in Lang’ata, why blame the director?” KCGWU Nairobi branch vice-chairman Ken Madibo said. Last week, Sonko announced plans to construct fire stations in all the 17 subcounties after holding talks with Soulco Kenya Limited, who will do the work. The county has only one functioning public fire station. The premises along Tom Mboya Street was built in 1906. “Each of the Nairobi sub- counties will have a fire station and several fire engines,” Sonko said.