 Maternal mortality is a cause for concern for Kenya, especially given the high number of deaths that occur among mothers who deliver outside of health facilities. With this in mind, the Jubilee Government introduced Free Maternal Healthcare in government facilities as a flagship program in 2013 to tackle the problem by facilitating access to antenatal care and maternity services, helping mothers to get the care they would need before, during and after they gave birth. It is against this backdrop that President Uhuru Kenyatta claimed that the government had increased the number of expectant mothers delivering in public hospitals to over 1.2 million by the end of 2016 in his April 2017 State of the Nation address. “In 2013, we guaranteed the provision of free primary healthcare for expectant mothers. Today, we have doubled the numbers of expectant mothers delivering under the care of skilled medical attendants to over 1.2 million by the end of 2016. We have kept the promise” — President Uhuru Kenyatta The President made a similar claim in 2016 that PesaCheck looked into, and we found that he had greatly exaggerated the numbers when he claimed that 1.2 million mothers accessed free maternity care in 2016, up from 600,000 in 2013. So, the question is, has anything changed in this second claim?  PesaCheck has looked into President Kenyatta’s claim that the number of mothers receiving free maternal healthcare had doubled by the end of 2016 and finds it to be FALSE based on the following facts: Poor women, research shows, were far less likely than their wealthier counterparts to deliver in a medical facility due to the comparatively high cost of maternity care. To change this situation, the national government introduced the Free Maternity Program, initially financed through a series of conditional grants — money that could not be used for any other purpose — made to the counties. The method of payment eventually switched to the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), with mothers joining the ‘Linda Mama’ programme starting in the 2017/18 financial year. The Kenya Statistical Abstract 2017 shows that there were 948,351 recorded births and registered deliveries in 2016. In 2013, the number stood at 870,559. Of these recorded deliveries, some took place in a health facility and the others at home. There were 711,105 deliveries in health facilities, while 159,494 deliveries took place at home in 2013. In 2016, there were 875,101 deliveries in health facilities, while home deliveries were 73,223. To access the free maternity program, pregnant women would have to visit a health facility. That means only 875,101 would have benefited from the programme, and even when combined with the figure for home deliveries, it falls short of the 1.2 million deliveries claimed by President Uhuru Kenyatta by over 214,000. The total deliveries for 2016 are also not twice those of 2013 because they only increased by 113,792 within the same period. Even if the deliveries had increased as claimed by the President, we would expect the conditional grant for free maternal healthcare to increase to cater for the surge in the number of deliveries.  However, as established by PesaCheck’s previous fact check on deliveries in 2016, the amount budgeted in the County Allocation of Revenue Act 2016 was less than it was in 2015, with Parliament allocating KSh4.298 billion to the Free Maternity Programme in 2015/16 compared to KSh4.121 billion in 2016/17. Therefore, based on these facts, PesaCheck finds the claim by President Uhuru Kenyatta that the national government doubled the number of mothers receiving free maternal healthcare to 1.2 million by the end of 2016 to be exaggerated and hence FALSE. Do you want us to fact-check something a politician or other public figure has said about public finances? Fill this form or write to us on any of the contacts below, and we’ll help ensure you’re not getting bamboozled. This report was written by PesaCheck Fellow George Githinji, a researcher and blogger with interest in devolution and public finance, and edited by PesaCheck Managing Editor Eric Mugendi. The infographics are by John Githinji, a Kenyan Graphic Designer interested in Art, Animation, Information Technology and photography. The report was produced with fact-checking support from the International Budget Partnership (Kenya). PesaCheck, co-founded by Catherine Gicheru and Justin Arenstein, is East Africa’s first fact-checking initiative. It seeks to help the public separate fact from fiction in public pronouncements about the numbers that shape our world, with a special emphasis on pronouncements about public finances that shape government’s delivery of so-called ‘Sustainable Development Goals’ or SDG public services, such as healthcare, rural development, and access to water and sanitation. PesaCheck also tests the accuracy of media reportage. To find out more about the project, visit pesacheck.org. PesaCheck is a joint initiative of Code for Africa, through its local Code for Kenya chapter, and the International Budget Partnership (Kenya), in partnership with a coalition of local media organisations, with additional support from the International Center for Journalists (ICFJ).