The University of Nairobi yesterday clarified that it disowned Garissa Governor Ali Korane’s Master of Business Administration degree that the politician used to get clearance to run for public office. UoN’s director of corporate affairs John Orindi confirmed that the institution did write to law firm Musyoka Murambi & Advocates, but declined to comment further on the matter, citing confidentiality laws. Orindi said the debacle over Korane’s degree is a personal matter and that the UoN will not engage further on the issue to avoid fuelling personal battles. Korane has come under fire in the past week, following allegations that he sailed to Garissa county’s top job using a forged academic certificate. His degree and a letter circulating online earlier this week refuting the UoN’s stand on the Garissa governor were the subject of a Senate meeting held yesterday. Following the University of Nairobi’s denial last week that Korane graduated with a Master of Business Administration, it has now emerged that the Garissa governor did not appear in the December 2, 2011 list of graduands. “I do not want to engage the university in personal issues. Send any inquiries to vc@uonbi.ac.ke,” Orindi said, before disconnecting the call. An email for further clarification to vice chancellor Peter Mbithi was still unanswered by press time. letter shared on social media Korane’s academic qualifications saga took a new twist on Monday, as it emerged that another letter circulating on social media, purportedly from the UoN, denied the institution’s stand made last week on Korane, could be fake. The letter purportedly was to the effect that the institution has never received an inquiry on the status of Governor Korane’s academic qualifications. It also denied releasing information about the degree Korane used to seek clearance before the August 8, 2017 General Election. Efforts to get clarity from UoN on the letter circulating online on Monday were unsuccessful. Orindi declined to confirm whether the institution authored the document and whether its signatory — JM Kuiraria — works at the university. UoN had last week stated that the Master’s Degree certificate Korane used to get clearance from the IEBC was fake. “This is to state that Mr Korane, Ali Bunow is not a graduate of the degree of Master of Business Administration of this university on December 2, 2011. The copy of the certificate is not genuine and was not issued by this university,” the letter to Musyoka Murambi & Associates read. The Star has obtained a hardcopy of the list of students who graduated with the Master’s degree in Business Administration on December 2, 2011, and confirmed that Korane was not among the graduands. The list is available on the University of Nairobi’s website. It indicates that 973 students graduated with a Master of Business Administration, but makes no mention of the Garissa governor. Korane was cleared to run for Garissa governor on the Jubilee Party ticket in June last year. In his nomination papers to the IEBC, he listed the Master’s degree among his academic qualifications. He was declared winner of the Garissa governor race after garnering 59,871 votes against his closest challenger and predecessor Nathif Jama, who managed 55,156 votes. Jama is incidentally engaged in a court battle and seeks to stop his arrest over accusations of riding on forged academic papers which he submitted to the IEBC when running for office in 2013. The former governor in December withdrew a petition he had filed against Korane’s election victory.