Losses from economic crime continue to stunt the growth of Kenya’s public and private sector, a new report has shown. The Kenya Global Economic Crime Survey 2018 report by PwC shows the rate of fraud rose to 75 per cent compared to 61 per cent reported in 2016. The high fraud rate in the country puts Kenya, not only above the global average of 49 per cent but above the African average of 62 per cent. “Economic crime in Kenya continues to be a pervasive problem requiring serious, well thought out and even societal interventions to both prevent and control it,” the report stated. The report found the leading crime committed in organisations had to do with asset misappropriation. This is when employees use their position to cause payment for some ill-suited purpose or fail to record customer sales and instead pocket payments. fake insurance claims “This crime covers a wide range of nefarious acts ranging from embezzlement of physical assets such as cash to embezzlement of non-cash proprietary information and intellectual property such as patents and copyrights,” PwC forensics leader in East Africa Muniu Thoithi said. Another area where swindling was widespread was consumer-related fraud. This, according to the report, was most prevalent in the financial services sector with an incident rate of 65 per cent. In banks, consumers target loopholes in the designing of financial products or instruments to perpetrate fraud whereas in the insurance industry consumers lodge an illegitimate or inflated claim that is designed to appear legitimate. Other fraudulent practices, slowing down business operations in the county include procurement fraud, bribery and corruption, accounting fraud, cybercrime, human resource fraud, money laundering, insider trading and tax fraud. The report shows the rate of incidents in procurement fraud declined by eight per cent compared to 2016, making it the third most prevalent form of economic crime in Kenya while bribery and corruption came in fourth place with a 30 per cent incident rate. Cost to businesses Majority of respondents indicated they suffered a direct loss of about $25,000 (Sh2.54 million) in the past 24 months of operations. Businesses also have to incur more costs through investigations and other intervention measures. “Other costs cited as having resulted from the occurrence of the economic crimes include the severing of business relations, brand and reputational damage, the plummeting of employee morale, and strained relations with the regulators,” the report stated.