"Whilst men may play the game, women know the score." — Habeeb Akande The betting industry in Kenya has grown in leaps and bounds and has experienced several successes attributable to the impact it has had in the society. From sports sponsorship to community-based initiatives to bettering lives of Kenyans, the evidence is clear and tangible. There's also no secret that sports betting has continuously been perceived as a man's activity because, obviously, more men are keen on sports than women. However, a lot of women have started to participate and there's good reason to believe that this growing number might work to change the dynamics of this industry here in Kenya. Recalling the year 2004 when more women began taking an interest in soccer, thanks to the record-breaking season from Arsenal. Women remember Ashley Cole, Sol Campbell, Lauren, Freddie Ljungberg, and most significantly, all-time top scorer and club captain Thierry Henry. Men remember The Gunners winning the Premiership unbeaten (26 wins, 12 draws, 0 defeats), finishing a clear 11 points ahead of second-place Chelsea and thereafter stretching their unbeaten run to 49 consecutive matches, an English league football record. Football conversations between men and women became more common even in matatus. Perhaps that was one huge turning point for women and soccer in Kenya. Fast-forward to today, more and more women are paying attention to soccer in Kenya. Not only do they attend games just to cheer-lead but to actually watch and enjoy the game. Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards are especially a hit. More women are also watching the English Premier League with Arsenal continuing as a favorite. Consequently, more women are betting. Remove the stereo-types and see than women are better decision makers than women. That's different from being decisive which is another story altogether.  Violet Gathu walked away with sh27 million  If you saw it in the news lately, a lady called Violet Gathu won the SportPesa midweek jackpot worth a cool sh27,246,319. Her story is remarkable! She is a humble, soft-spoken single mother who until December 2017, worked in the banking industry. Upon leaving her job, she began a small business and ambitiously had plans to expand. On betting, she does so once in a while and is a fan of the SportPesa Mega Jackpot which she played and missed out on winning. She says that she isn't an avid sports fan but knows her way around. One evening, on the eve of Valentine's day when she was about to retire to bed, she remembered that she had not placed her usual bet. She sat up on her bed and placed 13 bets that she selected on the mid-week jackpot. She then slept and forgot about it the next day, being busy with her hustle. A text came two days later informing her that she had won a cool sh27 million. She didn't believe it at all. So deep was her disbelief, that she sat down and withdrew sh40,000 when she got the congratulations message. When the money came in to her MPesa account, she trembled and then informed her sister. A call came in at a later time from SportPesa to inform her of her winnings and what she was to do in the coming days. “I placed the bet but I am not exactly the biggest football fan.... I was therefore shocked to get a congratulatory message in the wee hours of Saturday that I had won the Jackpot", said Violet "I am glad to have won and I'll use this money wisely in investments for my family and myself. I shall also expand my boutique business", continued the retired banker. So there you have it. There isn't any wrong with women doing sports betting because they also win big. Women have sharper instincts and in fact, I'll be partnering with more women when I'm placing a wager. Perhaps soon we'll have a lady winner of the sportPesa Mega Jackpot which currently stands at sh111,541,843/=, right? You can bet on that.