The distribution of the new curriculum support materials is expected to come to a close on Wednesday. This also marks the end of the second month of the national roll out of the new curriculum pilot. The
pilot implementation has not been all bed and roses with challenges in
lack of curriculum support materials in some schools. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) says the materials will be dispatched to Busia, Narok,
Nakuru, Kilifi, Bomet, Nandi, and Muranga. Speaking told The Star on Monday, KICD director Julius Jwan said the distribution will see all schools covered and provided with the materials ready to learn. "The
basis of a pilot is to find out where we are having challenges and try
solving them before the implementation takes place, the challenges so
far are limited to unavailability of materials in some schools but that
is being addressed and we will be moving forward to iron out the other
problems as they develop," Jwan said. According
Kenya Publishers Association Lawrence Njagi publishers have experienced
a high demand for books approved for the new curriculum leading to
shortage. However, the chair says the books are now available in the market and parents were able to access. Other players Jwan noted that the institute the implementation of the curriculum was a collaborative process to ensure it works right. According
to the curriculum implementation calendar, teachers service commission
(TSC) is in April expected to conduct a teacher training to help them familiarise with the curriculum. The training will be continuous and will only be done when schools are closed. The Kenya national examination council is also developing the assessment designs that will be used to asses students next year. The first national assessment is expected to be conducted in Grade four after the official roll-out next year. The new assessment seeks to bring an end to the current national examinations format. "Readiness
to run a curriculum involves stakeholders its not solely upon KICD, it
involves everyone including parents in order to make it successful," Jwan said. The piloting of the new syllabus started nationwide in January. The
piloting covers two years of pre-primary and three years of lower
primary and intends to phase out the 8-4-4 system in 10 years. Click here for the latest political news 