A cruise ship with 620 passengers and 420 crew on board, MS Insignia has docked at the Port of Mombasa, the second to arrive at the port in less than two months. MS Isignia had 1,066 tourists which includes 680 passengers and 386 crew members. They were from Zanzibar, heading to Seychelles. Kenya Ports Authority Head of Corporate Communication, Bernard Osero said the season has been the best in recent years. “The number of cruise tourists has grown this year, a good sign for the tourism sector,” said Osero during the reception of MS Isignia. Over 4,747 high-end tourists have visited Kenya since the cruise ship season began last September. KPA management is working round the clock to finish the construction of the Sh450 million state-of-the-art, world-class cruise ship terminal at Berth number one. The new terminal will have state-of-the-art security features, an immigration center, a hotel and accommodation facility and other social amenities. Osero said they are sure that the terminal, which allows simultaneous berthing of two Oasis-class cruise ship (world largest passenger ships), will be completed by July. The Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers coast executive director, Sam Ikwaye told the Star that the arrival of six cruise ships at the Kenya coast is a sign of confidence for the destination. “When cruise liners come to your destination, it brings in two things; the high-end tourist who spend good money on their arrival and gives the destination an endorsement,” said Ikwaye. He urged KPA to finish up the cruise ship terminal in the record time in readiness for the next season and Mombasa County government should ensure a clean city and supporting infrastructure for the cruise ship tourism. “We are now asking KPA and the Mombasa county government to put up supporting infrastructure to support cruise ship tourism. We need good roads and cleaner city,” he said. Mombasa County government Tourism Department chief officer, Rabia Salim, said they are excite of the new development and they will continue supporting the cruise ship tourism. “We are happy to receive more vessels. This is a proof that Mombasa is getting good publicity out there. We will work with all stakeholders to promote our destination,” she said. On January 29, MS Silver Sprit docked at the port of Mombasa with 890 tourists, which include 496 passengers and 394 crew members. This was the second time MS Silver Spirit was coming to Kenya in within two months. It was here on December 21 with 472 tourists and 365 crew. Other cruise ships that have docked at the port of Mombasa this season include; the Omani luxury cruise ship christened Fulk Al Salamah (ship of peace) on October with 350 passengers on board. On January 4, a Norwegian vessel MS Nautica made its second call at the port of Mombasa with 962 passengers on board from Zanzibar in Tanzania heading to Seychelles. MS Nautica was first in the country on November 25 with 642 passengers from Marshall Islands in the North Pacific Ocean heading to Zanzibar.