Francis Atwoli has withdrawn his support for Nasa principal Musalia Mudavadi as he skipped Raila Odinga's self-inauguration on January 30. The Cotu secretary general said "never again" will he support the Amani National Congress leader as he is a "coward". "He abandoned Odinga at the hour of need ... I will never support him again," he said. Atwoli said he had called Mudavadi to know why he was not at Uhuru Park on that day. He claimed the Nasa chief campaigner told him Raila would be arrested as the ceremony was illegal. "I told him that he was the one who feared arrest. He is a coward and I will not back him again," he noted on Friday at the funeral of activist Ken Wafula in Soy, Likuyani constituency. He said the politician should have alerted his supporters when he decided not to go to the park. Mudavadi, Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) said they could not go to the venue as they were blocked by security. They also noted their security agents were withdrawn and insisted the coalition was intact. Read: I wasn't mad to swear by Bible, delayed oath a strategy - Raila Also read: Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath Atwoli asked members of the Luhya community to forgive him for endorsing Mudavadi as the community spokesman in December 2016. He led a ceremony at Bukhungu stadium in Kakamega where Mudavadi was installed as Luhya spokesman and the two were close since then. Mudavadi’s endorsement followed a survey conducted by a team from Nairobi University’s faculty of political science between July and November. He emerged the most popular candidate with a rating of 39 per cent. But Atwoli said: "I am sorry to the Luhya community for endorsing Mudavadi. Someone like Mudavadi, who wants to be a president one day, should never be afraid of anything. He added the Luhya community must redraw its strategy ahead of the 2022 general election "because it has no leaders". "Luhyas must review their position ahead of 2022. We should not allow ourselves to be misused or used to fill up votes for others." Present at the Burial were governors Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Wetang'ula, Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala and MPs Enoch Kibunguchi, Ayub Savula, Caleb Amisi and Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wetang’ula differed with Atwoli saying he and Mudavadi were firmly behind Raila and that their absence during the 'swearing-in' was tactical. The coalition will soon swear-in Kalonzo as deputy president, he said, noting they signed a binding memorandum of understanding. “We signed an MoU and agreed that we are bound by the interests of the Kenyan people. Mudavadi and I have decided that the unity of our people is key and our responsibility between now and 2022 is to vote in the same basket as the Luhya community." Wetang'ula said they will give more information on Nasa's plans. Malala challenged the coalition to quickly swear-in Kalonzo. The leaders condemned the Jubilee administration for shutting down KTN, NTV and Citizen over the opposition's ceremony. Related: ODM hijacked Raila and Kalonzo swearing-in plans, Wiper says Also read: Weta raps 'Hon. Ruto' for media attacks, Nasa security withdrawal Speaker after speaker eulogised Wafula as a courageous and true defender of human rights. The activist left behind a widow and four children. Click here for the latest political news