Experienced Kenya Prisons libero Elizabeth Wanyama has resumed training well in time for next month’s Africa Club Championship set for Cairo, Egypt. Wanyama, who was away on maternity leave, missed both the Kenya Prisons and national team assignments for the whole of last year. In her absence at the club level, the former Kenya Volleyball Federation league champions and Africa Club bronze medalist called on Judith Tarus, while Agrippina Kundu was the pick at the national outfit. Wanyama said her immediate goal is to get into competitive shape and then fight for a seat in the flight to Cairo. “I am happy to be back to the field. I was away for the last one year. I know I have missed a lot but I am  back now and ready to start afresh. It is not going to be a walk in the park bearing in mind the many talents emerging but that is what competition is all about,” noted Wanyama. “So far, preparations for the club championships and the 2018 league is going on well. My priority is to get back to shape and start to muscle for a slot in the team. Definitely, my goal is to work with the team members to improve last year’s performance. I know it’s not going to be easy but we have our work well cut out.” Prisons settled for second behind fierce rivals Kenya Pipeline last season but both teams still qualified for the club championships set for March 5-15 . Kenya Prisons coach Josp Barasa said they were happy to have Wanyama back in the team. He revealed that their target at the forthcoming club championships will be to better their performance during last year’s event in Tunisia. “We have been conducting our training session at the Nairobi West grounds and I am glad we are moving to the Safaricom Indoor Arena tomorrow (today). Our focus is to improve on our last year performance,” said Barasa who  double up as the Malkia Strikers assistant coach. Barasa also confirmed the signing of Kwanthanze Secondary School duo of left attacker Sharon Jepchumba and  middle blocker Doreen Chebet. The tactician noted: “We are happy to have the two players in our team. They are good players and I believe we are destined for good things.”