A 15-year-old girl in Kiunga, Lamu East, is seeking justice after she was allegedly raped by a GSU officer last week. She says her parents took Sh20,000 to drop the case. “He pounced on me, pulled me into the house, tied me with clothes and raped me repeatedly. He said he would shoot me dead if I screamed or ever told anyone,” the Class Four girl told the Star. Lamu woman MP Ruweida Obbo took up the matter after a resident told her of the crime. She wants the officer — well known and respected for his good deeds — prosecuted. He is still free days after allegedly committing the crime. Obbo put the girl in touch with the Star. The girl’s parents are said to be complict. The officer bought their silence for Sh20,000 when he realised the girl had told them, Obbo told the Star. He is attached to the Ishakani GSU camp on the Lamu-Somalia border, she said. Residents say he committed the act when he visited Kiunga, five kilometres away. He is said to have lured the girl into a house in Kiunga town and repeatedly raped her. After her parents didn’t help, the girl found an ally in Obbo. “The officer is well known and respected in Kiunga, where he used to work before he was posted to Ishakani. We’re used to him helping needy people here,” the girl said. “When he called me on my parent’s phone and asked I collect goods at one Hussein’s house, I didn’t suspect anything. When he came, he insisted that we go inside, but I was hesitant.” Obbo said, “The girl’s parents told me they had resolved the matter locally and that I shouldn’t worry. That’s when I learnt they had accepted Sh20,000 from the officer so they don’t pursue the matter. “When I spoke to the girl, however, she was bitter. She wanted justice. We moved her from Kiunga to Lamu. That officer must be arrested and prosecuted. These rapes against children by people in uniform must stop.” Lamu East police boss Gideon Mugambi said he had received reports about the alleged rape and investigations are underway. But Lamu county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said he was not aware of the incident. “I have no information. Why don’t you call GSU bosses? I can’t comment. I’ve not been informed,” he said. Cases of girls being abused are on the rise. Many parents don’t seek justice but prefer out-of-court settlements, cash paid by their daughters’ rapists. A week ago, a KWS officer was found in a lodge with a schoolgirl, 14, in Hindi town. He was arrested but has not been charged in court. In December last year, an 80-year-old man raped and infected a nine-year-old girl with HIV in Saba Saba village, Hindi, Lamu West. He has never been arrested. 