Devolution PS nominee Nelson Marwa has said will prioritise swift transfer of assets and liabilities to county governments. Speaking during vetting by the National Assembly Finance Committee, Marwa said the slow transition of assets had affected effective implementation of devolution. The 47 devolved units were required to validate, verify and transfer all the assets belonging to the defunct authorities based on the exit report by the Transitional Authority by June last year. However, some counties are yet to realise this. “We have to move with speed should the House approve my name to ensure the counties have acquired the properties that belonged to the defunct local authorities to prevent further misappropriation,” Marwa said. The auditor general’s report of April last year found that county governments were still grappling with evaluation and validation of assets, including land and buildings, and liabilities inherited from the defunct local authorities. The report also found out that part of the Sh143 billion property counties inherited from defunct local authorities in 2013 was reportedly stolen. Marwa said his top agenda if approved will be to combat poor coordination of service in the public offices and corruption. The former Coastal regional coordinator raised concerns of poor coordination in the government offices that he had experienced during his operations. Marwa boasted of a clean track record he was not willing to destroy. "I have never been implicated in any corruption case or misappropriation of funds and my goal is purely service delivery, not other side shows," Marwa said. Marwa says he is going to bring back the hope Kenyans had in devolution by propelling a wealth creation agenda to benefit each county. The tough speaking regional coordinator who is worth Sh25 million, said he was ready to take cartels head on to ensure equity. "We have to ensure there an equitable distribution of wealth in the whole country if we want to move forward this country belongs to all of us and devolution was meant to benefit everyone, "Marwa said. He further noted that he would work together with the CS to ensure a better preparation of natural disasters such as floods, fire, food distribution. " Everyone has a chance to supply government tenders, this issue of benefiting two or three individuals only will not be entertained, "he said. The PS nominee further decried of the drug menace that had encroached the coastal region noting that upon confirmation he would work with the Interior Ministry to ensure those involved are arrested and prosecuted. " We have to collaborate in the fight against drugs," he said. Among other agendas he plans to bring to the devolution docket include ensuring youths graduating from the NYS are absorbed into forces and police service to prevent them from engaging in crime or terror.