Servant leadership is the creation of a better future for society by seizing the available opportunities and resources. A human development study done by the UN in 2010 found that Nyanza is one of the poorest regions in Kenya. This is majorly because of the region's leaders' political standpoint. Nyanza has potential sources of revenue, including hidden minerals, fish, tourism, and cross border trade across Lake Victoria with neighboring Tanzania and Uganda. The region has enormous under-explored mineral belts that can boost its economic and social develpment. Lack of leadership and bad politics has created inequality and poverty. The region requires leaders of the highest calibre to man its resources. Policy intervention is necessary for long-term growth. Priorities must switch to the under-exploited mineral deposits and advanced agriculture. The results will be excellent education; higher standards of health and nutrition; less poverty; a cleaner environment; more equality of opportunity; greater individual freedom; and a richer cultural life. When the East African Breweries announced its plan to set a plant in Kisumu last year, our leaders rubbished the project as a Jubilee campaign gimmick. This was self-marginalisation. The company later launched a drive to recruit new farmers to produce sorghum used in the manufacture of its popular drink, Senator Keg. Leaders have deliberately turned a blind eye on the employment opportunities for the people. The rejection was a plan between politicians and shrewd business cartels to benefit from high demand at the expense of farmers. Farmers from Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori and Kisumu counties are to form cooperatives in order to benefit from the contract. Kisumu Cotton Mills, which collapsed in the early 1990s, should be revived. So far there are no signs of rival from the county governments or the legislatures. One would expect to see established fish processing plants in Kisumu and Homa Bay. It remains a daunting task to promote sustainable harvesting of fish in Lake Victoria and introduce fish farming projects. The region cannot meet the increasing demand for fish with a devolved function of agriculture. In Kisumu, Nyanza's headquarters, fish from China sells cheaper. Furthermore, Kisumu was earmarked for development as a special economic zone by the World Bank. This has remained a pipe dream. With the SEZ, we would be now experiencing increased trade, increased investment and job creation. According to government geologists, Homa Bay and Migori are among the richest counties in minerals. Poor investment plans and an ineffective mining policy remain impediments. Large-scale gold mining in southern Nyanza was abandoned more than 20 years ago. Local miners sell cheaply much of the mineral to middlemen. Gold deposits in the southern part of Nyanza can support the national economy and generate significant fiscal revenue to the counties and income to residents. Siaya equally has high-grade traces of gold with minimal exploitation in Ramula. Kisumu is endowed with rare earth minerals such as soda ash, fluorspar, and copper remain unexploited due to inadequate knowledge on their status, economic viability and appropriate mining technologies. The counties’ investment policies should therefore be oriented to technology, industrial optimisation and environmental promotions. Soapstone in Kisii county has multiple uses but is under-exploited only for carvings. Soapstone can also be used in the manufacture of tiles, chalk, cosmetic, fertiliser and pharmaceuticals. It is Dark Age mentality that when local people discover minerals in their areas, it is up to them to form cooperatives so that government can help them establish an industry through the cooperatives. This area needs a legal authority to regulate and manage it. If leadership is to be considered wise, county development strategies have to be realigned to reality. Nyanza governors must review their political standpoint and utilise their leadership positions to work in the best interest of their counties. Failing which the communities will adopt counter measures. Communication consultant @JoshuaNgala