A debate recently arose on the stringent demands by the Constitution aimed at blocking individuals with questionable integrity from public office. Fresh university graduates and poor form four leavers seeking entry level jobs in the public service have been subjected to Chapter Six demands. The same demands were made of individuals running for office last year. One is required to get clearance from police in the form of a certificate of good conduct that costs Sh1,050, the Helb clearance certificate costs Sh1,000, the Credit Reference Bureau clearance costs Sh2,200 and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission one Sh500. This totals to Sh4,750. Sometimes the cost may go up if the request for Kenya Revenue Authority tax compliance certificate has due penalties. Many fresh graduates have missed opportunities as they struggle to raise funds to acquire these documents. The application of this requirement has been punitive and a hindrance to many unemployed but qualified young persons. While absolute strictness is applied to entry-level jobseekers, some leniency is shown to wealthy people seeking public office and clearance is granted with one eye closed. In the August 8 General Election, for example, those seeking elective positions were required to undergo thorough vetting before Chapter Six clearance was granted. Yet the authorities given the responsibility of conducting the vetting cleared individuals facing criminal charges, jailbirds, suspects of economic crimes and those engaging in various forms of corruption at the county and national governments.We saw funny characters known to have dropped out of school without sitting or passing the requisite national exams change their names, enrol for degree courses using adopted names and bombard us with graduation photos to prove their qualification. Several governors and a senator have been dragged to court over alleged fake academic certificates long after they were elected. The NGOs Board chief executive officer Fazul Mahamed is one of those alleged to have fake papers. Looking at the many fake people presiding over our state corporations and top public offices, you realise it is completely unnecessary to condemn fresh university graduates and other entry-level jobseekers to joblessness on account of documentation that does not say much for their true character. Why should a jobless person be compelled to pay for not being corrupt? Why should a jobless person be forced to pay for not having taken a loan? Vetting is indeed a good idea to ensure those seeking to run public resources are people of high integrity. However, it will make more sense to restrict vetting that requires many permits and certification(s) to individuals seeking higher state offices. The Public Service Commission, County Public Service Boards and the various human resource committees should spare vulnerable Kenyans seeking lower cadre jobs this unnecessary and expensive vetting mechanism. There should be a pocket-friendlier way of ensuring those hired into the public service are individuals of high integrity. I have seen many Kenyans particularly raise complaints about being denied clearance by the CRB after being listed for small mobile loans or for undeclared bank service charges for inactive bank accounts. It is important to legislate on this matter to stop Kenyans from being denied opportunities because of such listings. It is incredibly painful that even after one has cleared with the listing authority, the CRB would want to keep one’s name in the blacklist for more than three years. Someone in the National Assembly or the Senate should come up with legislative ideas to control the use of some of these vetting tools to ensure they are not used to kill the future of our young people while enriching wealthy people and institutions. I’m glad to see recent job adverts, especially from state corporations, deliberately exclude the requirement for CRB clearance. It is important to invest in post-recruitment vetting, especially during the probation period, to ensure small issues do not cost individuals jobs.