Kakamega residents have complained they are charged for taking care of their sick relatives at Kakamega County General Hospital. On Tuesday, people who were taking care of their ailing relatives said they were forced to pay Sh250 per day. Those who could not pay were physically removed by the management. Yesterday Alfred Ayisi produced a receipt for Sh250 paid to a KCB Mtaani agent in Kakamega town to be allowed to stay with his sick relative at the hospital on Monday. He said it was unfair to charge relatives of patients because they don’t even get meals, but feed themselves. Such charges are unusual but the hospital management says they are necessary. They say too many unauthorised visitors and ‘relatives’ eat for free and even spend the night, crowding into beds. Petty thefts also have increased, the management says. Only one authorised caregiver is allowed and that person is not charged. He or she is served meals alongside their patient. Medical superintendent Dr Victor Zimbulu said the charge is intended to discourage people who hang around the hospital “on the pretext of caring for the sick — just to be fed”. He said relatives are only allowed to care for patients in serious condition, especially those unable to move because of limb injuries. Zimbulu said the charges are meant to cut high hospital operating costs, as extra people contribute to a shortage of meals for patients. They also use toilets frequently, clogging the drainage. The superintendent said extra visitors sneak in illicit brew at night. “They lead to frequent bed breakages as five people end up sleeping on one bed at night,” Zimbulu said. Any extra person found at the bedside is asked to pay for being there because one person is enough to take care of a sick person. “You can imagine a scenario where four people are looking after one patient and they are all served food,” Zimbulu said. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala called the charges illegal. “The charges are not in the current Finance Bill and are therefore illegal. Patients are entitled to care. There are not enough nurses to cover all patients as required by international  standards,” Malala said.