The TSC has asked politicians to stop meddling with the profession and the recently concluded transfer of head teachers. Nancy Macharia, the Chief Executive Officer of the Teachers Service Commission, said this in her remarks to the parliamentary Education committee on Tuesday. Macharia warned that the poltiicisation of affairs will mess the sector as reforms are aimed at improvements across the country. She noted the commission has had a hard time implementing policies amid public involvement. "The PSC, NPS and other public servant commissions have been undertaking reforms and transfers but they weren't politicised," she said. "Why are we politicising the transfers? When police are moved we keep silent but we politicise [teachers' matters]. Why?" Macharia dismissed claims of bias in the delocalisation policy, noting teachers were being transferred from locations that are "not very far" from their home areas. She said that before the moves, the country was mapped into two - the Western, and the Central and Eastern side. According to the TSC's new regulations, a school head will serve a maximum of nine years in one institution before being relocated. Related: Baringo Knut officials give TSC one week to revoke elderly teachers' transfers Also read: ‘Stop this foolishness': Matiang’i tells off teacher transfer opponents The CEO noted the TSC is mandated with moving teachers based on need or the realisation of gaps. But she explained that the commission relies on assessment reports by the Education ministry. Macharia told the committee chaired by Tinderet MP Julius Melly that 555 head teachers had been transferred. She reported challenges in areas known for insecurity, citing last Friday's attack at Qarsa Primary School in Wajir County where four people were killed by suspected al Shabaab militants. The CEO reported that teachers in the area fled out of fear and that they had received reports that some were in Nairobi. "We are concerned about the security of our teachers. We can't let our young men and women lose their lives due to insecurity. We are waiting for a complete assessment report on the situation ... we shall act decisively," she said. But she added: "This was a new policy - the challenges we are experiencing will be streamlined as time goes by." Read: Suspect arrested after al Shabaab attack on Wajir teachers Macharia asked legislators to instead support the commission's policies and increase financial allocations so more teachers are hired. She said there has been an acute shortage but that the TSC had been restricted to hiring 5,000 teachers annually. "There is no budget for the recruitment and promotion of teachers, leaving the commission's hands tied. We want to increase the number of teachers," she said. Click here for the latest political stories