Insecurity in Mt Elgon has always been synonymous with the proscribed Sabaot Lands Defence Forces (SLDF). And whenever SLDF is mentioned, two names emerge former Mt Elgon MP John Serut, and his successor, Fredrick Chesebe Kapondi. In this interview with MARK KWEMOI, Serut denies any association with the militia. Excerpts:Some people and leaders allege that you have ties with SLDF. What is your response?I have never been associated with any militia in Mt Elgon. In the case of the SLDF, I have been its victim. For a long time, the militia has been hunting me, my family and anyone associated with me. They killed my brother. They recently killed my cousin. How then can these crooks be my allies?Why have you been the SLDF’s target then?The perception out there is that I am a Ndorobo. This is not true; I am a Soy. As a matter of fact, I have been championing for what is right for the people of Mt Elgon. In and out of Parliament, I have always insisted that those who are supposed to benefit from the controversial Chepyuk Settlement Scheme land are the Ndorobos; not the Soys. My stand has not augured well with some (selfish) people and leaders in the region.So who is behind the SDLF?For posterity, let us put it as it is. To tell, explicitly, who owns, runs and funds SLDF, Mt Elgon MP Fredrick Chesebe Kapondi should start by telling us why these boys (SLDF) campaigned for him in the 2007 General Elections. Why did SDLF kill my brother in Kibuk? Why did they maim and kill my supporters? Are you saying that Mr Kapondi owns SLDF?Absolutely. Mr Kapondi is the owner of the SLDF. The MP appears to have made some promises to these boys since 2007. The promises have never been fulfilled. It is time the legislator told the people of Mt Elgon and Kenyans as a whole what he promised these boys, and when he intends to fulfil them. The whole Sabaot community cannot be burdened by an unfulfilled deal reached secretly by a small group of people. Is the current insecurity related to the 2007 attacks in Mt Elgon? We should appreciate that SLDF did not die in 2007. The Okoa Maisha Operation by the Kenya Defence Forces failed because it was conducted without a water-tight plan that involved the community. Its outcome was just the maiming, killing and raping of innocent people by the military. The truth of the matter is that SLDF just underwent a period of inactivity, playing a dummy to the security agencies, with some going to hide in Uganda and other neighbouring counties. As we were campaigning in 2017, my opponent (Kapondi), working closely with security agencies in Cheptais, made a fictitious promise of free land in Chepyuk Phase III to the residents. At least 13,000 people got registered. Yet the land is nowhere. This is what is re-igniting fire in Mt Elgon.In your view, what would be the lasting solution?The area MP should sit down with his boys and sort out what he promised them. Thereafter, together with other leaders, I will be glad to further champion for harmony in this region because this is my home.Your parting shot?Mr Kapondi created a monster in Mt Elgon, let him carry his own cross.