Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has convened a make-or-break meeting with delegates next month to review the party's relationship with Nasa affiliates. The March 16 summit in Nairobi’s Komarock area will audit the party's position in the coalition and consider available options after the disputed 2017 polls. Officials claim members of Raila Odinga's ODM party bully their colleagues. Wiper also believes it got a raw deal in the alliance after losing a number of leadership slots in Parliament. Read: ODM, Wiper clash in Parliament over PSC slots Wiper leaders said 10,000 delegates have confirmed they will attend the summit. The officials added that the party will hold two meetings in Kitui and Makueni ahead of the summit to be hosted by Johnson Muthama. "We will meet all opinion leaders from Ukambani and take a position on our future," Kathiani MP Robert Mbui said by phone on Friday. The National Assembly Deputy Minority Leader said the party was planning a series of activities to activate the grassroots as part of the revamping strategy. "We have been talking to grassroots leaders and the clergy as part of our plans to consolidate Ukambani," he said. The grassroots tours are meant to solidify the vote-rich base but pundits believe it might also lead to parting ways with Nasa. INSULTS AND BACKLASH Amid the speculation about the future, Kalonzo declared the National Super Alliance was intact during the ODM National Delegates Conference on Friday. But top officials in his party, who requested anonymity, said its position in Nasa is unpredictable following name-calling and insults. They said focus turned to the future partly because of the backlash against their leader after he missed Raila's self-inauguration as the People's President. The absence, they noted, resulted from an agreement by Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). More on this: I wasn't mad to swear by Bible, delayed oath a strategy - Raila The sources noted Wiper is free to dialogue with other political players including those in President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's Jubilee Party. “It is sad that when ODM engages Jubilee it is called dialogue but when Wiper does, they call us traitors,” a top official noted. Related: Backing 'flip-floppy' Kalonzo in 2022 a bad idea - Ukambani youths "KALONZO STRONG ENOUGH TO FIGHT" The officials further noted that Kalonzo is strong enough to fight his battles and that On Saturday, the Star exclusively reported growing conflicts in Nasa after Raila's 'swearing-in' as the People’s President on January 30. The conflict was driven by sibling rivalry, 2022 presidential ambitions, turf wars and secret schemes by Jubilee. The wrangles have watered down the fight for electoral injustice. However, Wiper has embarked on rebuilding its image and putting in place mechanisms to remain strong. In a statement on Saturday, the party said: “Kalonzo has been consulting widely on issues which has been fueled by the coalition partners and resulted in name-calling and insults." On Friday, Kalonzo held a meeting with leaders from Kitui County at his Yatta farm. They included the clergy, opinion and elected leaders from Machakos, Makueni and Kitui Counties. Kalonzo is also troubled as the Jubilee administration has recalled his security and his farm could be taken over amid claims of witch-hunt. Lady Justice Aburili ordered IG Joseph Boinnet to restore the security but this has not been the case. The Nasa principal says the witch-hunt has gone on for a while but notes he has always been vindicated. "This is the only thing they try to use to malign me. They have been frustrated because I am corruption-free so no shoddy deals can be traced back to me," he said in a statement on Saturday. Related: Kalonzo used VP position to get 200-acre land - Mutua Click here for the latest political news