Dismas India, David Wakhu, Kopan Timbe and Nelson Mudanyi are among top pros expected to take part in the third PGK Kenya Open qualifier starting Monday at Muthaiga Golf Club. Also expected at the ‘Home of Golf’ are Vet Lab’s Bryan Njoroge and Nicholas Rokoine, who have intensified their training ahead of the qualifiers. CJ Wangai, the PGK captain said they will play back to back tournaments this month to keep the pros in good shape ahead of the Kenya Open slated March 22-25 at Muthaiga. The tournament will be preceded by two Pro-Am events on March 20-21 at the Muthaiga courtesy of Kenya Open Golf Limited and the Barclays Bank of Kenya respectively. Next week’s qualifier will run from Monday through to Thursday. Pros will then head to Royal Nairobi from February 19-22 for the fourth qualifier and into the last qualifier at Windsor from February 26-29. “After Windsor, we shall take a couple of days rest before participating in our last build-up during PGK Jamii Telecom Masters at Muthaiga. “The essence is to get used to the Muthaiga course by having as many rounds as possible there,” said Wangai. In a bid to avoid players’ complacency, the PGK has changed the qualifying format with elimination of the points scoring systems depending on performance. “In past Kenya Open, some pros have qualified early and lost focus of the tournament well in time. This time we have introduced a different system whereby you qualify automatically with five rounds of under par scores or playing two tournaments on a level par score,” said Wangai, adding: “This has made the pros work harder and go an extra mile to seek for the remaining 18 slots,” said Indiza. Only 22 pros and 4 amateurs will be allowed to represent the country at the prestigious championship which will be marking it’s 50th anniversary this year. All the three, who made cuts at last year’s edition namely Indiza, Simon Ngige and Rizwan Charania and South Africa-based Stefan Andersen (wildcard) have qualified for the Open. The other 18 will come through the five leg series being played at various venues. “Because Stefan is our young pro, we decided to extend a wild card to him as he is playing really well in South Africa at the moment,” said Wangai, who is also among those looking for qualification slots. “I’m glad that Indiza has exhibited some great skills even with the assurance that he has qualified. Nelson Mudanyi and Kopan Timbe have been at it and it will be interesting to see just who fills the remaining 18 slots,” continued Wangai. Of the six slots extended to amateur golfers, two have been given to Uganda and Tanzania who will field Victor Joseph. Meanwhile, the third leg of the Barclays Tour continues at Nakuru Golf Club this weekend. Over 200 home and guest golfers will be taking part in the event which is being used as a yardstick to select amateur golfers for the Barclays Pro-Am. The opening leg in Eldoret was won by Andrew Chelogoi while Christine Ocholla won the Karen Tour last week. The Barclays Tour will also go to Kisumu and Mombasa in a bid to ascertain platers suitable to play in the Pro-Am.