At least 50 Kerio Valley schools were yesterday shut down indefinitely and more than 400 teachers downed their chalk in protest of deadly attacks in the area. The comes a day after approximately 150 teachers and 2,000 pupils demonstrated in Tot against runaway insecurity in the “valley of death”. On the same afternoon, two people were shot in an attack 6km away from the protest. Herder Kibor Kimargat, 25, and a suspected raider from Tiaty in Baringo county were shot dead near Toroko Primary School. Marakwet Knut secretary John Cheberi said yesterday, no learning will take place in the 50 schools until when the state deploys adequate security personnel to all schools. “Teachers are heading to the subcounty education offices to handover management of schools to the countydirectors of education,” Cheberi said. It is no longer safe for teachers and pupils to remain in schools when attacks are happening near learning institutions, he said. 16 schools shut in Baringo “The attacks in Kerio Valley are worse than ever, and have taken a different dimension. An innocent Standard Four pupil was shot while in class,” Cheberi said. Teachers and pupils are entitled to protection from the state, and will not return to class until when they are assured of their, he said. Cheberi said at least 16 schools have also been shut down in the neighbouring Baringo and West Pokot counties due to insecurity. However, Marakwet East subcounty director of education Kimutai Chirchir said Knut has no powers to close schools. Children, elderly will starve Chirchir said all boarding schools in Kerio Valley are manned by four police reservists. He urged Knut to rescind the decision. “The government has done enough. All of us should join hands in seeking a lasting solution to insecurity instead of withdrawing our services,” Chirchir said. He said learners get food in school through the state school feeding programme and may starve if the schools are closed. “Some elderly people also go to schools to get a meal. The closure will bring more suffering,” he added. The closed schools include Liter Primary School and Liter Secondary School, Sambalat Primary School. They were shut down after fresh fighting erupted in January 5. Ketut chief James Chesubar said the Tuesday attack happened about 300m from Toroko Primary School disrupted learning. Bandits suspected to be from Tiaty ambushed herders, killing Kimargat and sparking a fierce gun battle that left one of the attackers dead, he said. Elgeyo Marakwet deputy speaker Christopher Kibor said ward reps are mobilising residents to hold demonstrations to protest against insecurity. He asked Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to visit Kerio Valley to see how learning has been paralysed.