The High court has reversed the Firearms Licensing Board's revocation of a Kitui politician’s gun licence. It also annulled orders issued by the board effecting the withdrawal of Millitonic Kitute's three pistols. Justice George Odunga ordered the board hear the matter afresh and give Kitute an opportunity to be be heard. The court directed the board to make a decision in accordance with the law within 30 days of service of the order. Kitute vied for the Kitui East MP seat on Narc ticket in last year's elections but lost to Nimrod Mbai of Jubilee. He moved to court to challenge the revocation of his firearm licence. The politician told the court that his arrest and prosecution after the August elections was in bad faith. He added that the arrests started after he complained of vote rigging in Kitui East. Kitute was arrested and charged with behaving in a disorderly manner while carrying a firearm. He alleges that in the same month, he was also arrested with another offence but bailed himself out before being charged. The politician added that the arrests were meant to have him detained in custody and not to file his petition. The gun licence was revoked on September 19, 2017, after the board ordered the politician to surrender the weapon for confiscation and destruction. Kitute claimed his three pistols were withdrawn and his licence revoked even after informing the secretary that he had not received a letter dated August 22. The said letter required him to show cause why his firearms certificate should not be revoked and his firearms confiscated. The politician also claimed in court that on August 9, 2017, Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai strangled him at a hotel and took away his firearm. He argued that the gun was taken to a police station and a false report made. The board, however, argued that Kitute was disarmed and his licence revoked after two groups clashed following a disagreement over how to raise funds for the politician. "The applicant suddenly removed his gun and shot thrice in the air endangering the lives of other people involved in the scuffle," the board said. Click here for the latest political news  