Cyprian Awiti's lawyers headed to court on Tuesday to appeal the High Court's nullification of his re-election. The lawyers
led by Emmanuel Awiti argued that Justice Joseph Karanja did not consider the
outcome of votes scrutiny and recount in his judgment. “Governor
Awiti will continue staying in office since we’re challenging the judgment at the Kisumu-based Court of Appeal,” the lawyer said. Oyugi Magwanga, who is former Kasipul MP and Homa Bay Governor hopeful, and his running mate Joshua Orero filed the suit against Awiti, Karanja nullified the re-election of Awiti and Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata on grounds that the IEBC failed to disprove the allegations they raised. Karanja noted two sets of forms 37A with contradicting results as the two parties both claimed they won the August 8, 2017 vote. “There are a number of anomalies including two different final results released by the fourth respondent on elections day. The IEBC could not explain their origin." He further noted irregularities including broken ballot boxes and security seals, failure by returning officers to sign some form 37As, blank form 37As, and alteration of results. Justice Karanja slapped Awiti and IEBC with fines of Sh2 million and Sh4 million respectively. More on this: Court nullifies Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti's election, orders fresh polls In his
petition, Magwanga listed prayers including an order for the electoral agency to declare him winner after a votes recount. He also wanted the court to nullify Awiti's re-election on grounds that it was marred with
irregularities. But Justice Karanja said he could not declare Magwanga winner after the court realised mistakes were made. “The court
deduced the election was a sham and has no mandate to declare anybody winner.
It therefore orders for a fresh gubernatorial election in the county of Homa
Bay." After the nullification,
Magwanga and his supporters celebrated saying justice had been served. The former
Kasipul MP said he was ready to face Awiti in a fresh election and accused the IEBC of denying him victory. "The IEBC should ensure a credible process," he said at Homa Bay County Stadium. But in a statement, the county boss rejected the ruling saying it marked a dark day for Homa Bay. Awiti, who was in court, said they would respect the court ruling but take action. “The court
has made its ruling but I’m consulting with my team and party leader Raila
Odinga on our next step." Awiti sought
his re-election on an ODM ticket while Magwanga vied as an independent candidate. After the August
vote, the commission declared Awit winner with 210,173 votes against
Magwanga's 189,060. Tom Alila of Jubilee Party and Medo Misama, an independent candidate, also vied for the seat. Click here for the latest political news      