For some time now, unceasing opposition, widespread electoral dissatisfaction with rigging, increasing poverty generated by a national creed of corruption, a nation divided by negative ethnicity, threats of secession and a leadership motivated by self-interest all combine to create a crisis that indicates we’re hurtling down the road to hell. This is not just obliterating the gains of the democratic struggle but is also destroying the very fabric of the nation. In fact, people are so wary of politics of conflict that they feel sick of political headlines and political debates. In these circumstances, we must ask serious questions. Is our democracy so damaged that it is beyond repair and must, therefore, fall by the sword of revolution? Or is Kenya’s cancer so advanced that it is terminal and our nation is on its deathbed?  THIRSTING FOR TYRANNY Is the Jubilee government led by Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto so bad that it is worse than the regimes of Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki, and has absolutely no justification or excuse to last one more day? Yes, Kenya is moving full speed ahead towards dictatorship. It has many tyrannical tendencies, terrible roots in Kanu dictatorship and its ardent supporters are thirsting and hankering for tyranny that they thank for development of Singapore and China. However, Kenya should not yet be destroyed and rebuilt through the blood of millions. When I compare the Uhuru government with that of Moi, I feel sad that the latter is desired and emulated by many elites. If our democracy is not yet completely dead, should the little left be wiped out and destroyed in a violent revolution, together with the rule of law that could make us freer and more prosperous?  DEFENCE AGAINST BAD GOVERNANCE In society, people live with their governments in a relationship where the two entities offend each other. In that regard, the contract between the people and the government should spell out how differences and disagreements between them should be discussed and resolved amicably. For instance, the government commits crimes when it robs people through corruption and when it rigs elections, denying them leaders of their own choice. The government offends the people when it divides communities to rule them through negative ethnicity. It commits crimes when it inflicts massacres or genocide against its people. How then should the people defend themselves against the government? First, the people will urge government to self-correct, apologise and ensure justice is done. If government refuses to accept blame, the people will be within their rights to criticise and ask for justice. And if the government fails to do the right thing, the people will be entitled to oppose and ask for its replacement with a better one. While criticism and opposition are better because they don’t involve bloodshed, the masses will scale up their level of opposition if the government refuses to listen or talk to them about their problems and when it derides them.  SECESSION NOT THE ANSWER If the government refers to its people as the voices of frogs that don’t stop cows from drinking water, the masses will be forced to declare their government illegitimate and seek its removal through demonstrations. When under too much pressure, a civilised government will resign and call for elections. As long as the above measures are possible, they should be preferred to civil war or violent overthrow of a government. Nor should people think they are cowardly if they give a government willing to listen the time to change and correct things. Finally in ending dictatorship, people should not create more problems by dismembering their country with secession. When people break the law, the government should take them to court before taking them anywhere else but never detain them without trial, arrest them arbitrarily or deport them. Nor should the government arrest anybody without a warrant or detain them without trial for expressing contrary or contradictory opinions.  LOSING LEGITIMACY A government should also never arrest, torture and massacre people just to retain power. Above all, no government should shut down media that is critical — merely to contain the opposition. An administration will have lost all its right to power if it dares sabotage democracy, freedom and justice, principles that are so sacrosanct as never to be violated. While a government may be reluctantly dictatorial, it loses legitimacy if it openly supports dictatorship, corruption and negative ethnicity.    