The Firearms Licensing Board wants the court to dismiss the petition filed by Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati challenging the revocation of his gun. Justice George Odunga suspended the decision by the government to revoke Arati’s firearm licence, pending the hearing and determination of a suit. He also ordered police to reinstate Arati’s bodyguards, who had been withdrawn after the Raila Odinga’s oath as the People’s President. Arati sued the board secretary, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. But in an affidavit filed by the board secretary Samuel Kimaru, it says Arati’s firearm certificate had expired on November 11 last year and he has never renewed it. Kimaru says Arati last applied for the renewal in 2016. At the time Arati filed the case, he violated Section 4 of the Firearms Act because he possessed a gun whose certificate had expired, he said. “The applicant’s licence had expired and no application was made for renewal. He ought to have disclosed that to this court. Failing to do so merits the exercise of any discretion or powers of the court against him,” Kimaru adds. He says Arati should have had recourse to the statutory remedy provided for by the Firearms Act before seeking relief from the court. “This honourable court ought not to exercise its discretion in favour of the MP, who has professed openly to be a member of NRM — a movement proscribed as an organised criminal gang at the time of institution,” Kimaru argues. MP cites ulterior motives Arati said the government acted in blatant disregard of the law and the Constitution by revoking his licence. Through lawyer Arnold Ochieng, he said the decision was not only arbitrary, but also against the rules of natural justice, as no notification was issued and he was not accorded an opportunity to be heard. Arati said the decision to recall his security did not adhere to the principles of good governance set out in Article 10 of the Constitution and his rights to equal protection. “The process leading to the making of the decision was accented with secrecy, and driven by ulterior motives and political considerations in a manner that violates the provisions of law and defeats the principles of the Constitution and the right to a fair administrative action,” the petition read. 