Kenya Forest
Service has ignored local communities in forest conservation, Elgeyo
Marakwet governor Alex Tolgos has said. Tolgos noted on
Wednesday that the 65,000-hectare Cherangany water tower and the 21,000-hectare
Embobut Forest are owned and conserved by clans. He asked KFS to involve residents in conservation to end animosity with the service. KFS kicked
off eviction of illegal dwellers, including members of the indigenous Sengwer
community, in December last year. Read: Sengwer 'hiding in forest' as Kenya pressured to stop evictions Also read: Leave Embobut or get cursed, Marakwet elders tell Sengwer Civil
society groups including Amnesty International, KNCHR, National Coalition for
Human Rights Defenders and Katiba Institute say the evictions are
violent. Tolgos added some KFS wardens were harassing locals in the forest instead of seeking
ways to incorporate them in its management and conservation. “Locals have
stated that they are being harassed by wardens but we have asked them to
continue conserving forests. There will be no need to deploy wardens if they
play their role." The county
chief warned charcoal burners and others who cut trees against the illegal practices. “Some of
the charcoal burners are cutting 300-year-old indigenous tree species,” he said. The animosity is partly due to claims that it has been seizing livestock. The Sengwer
community, through their spokesman Paul Kiptuka, alleged that KFS wardens evicting illegal settlers seized five sheep in Tangul area inside
the forest on Tuesday. “We have
reported the matter to police but they have declined to allow us to record a
statement,” Kiptuka said, adding they did not know where the animals were. “We also asked KFS wardens in Tangul to explain why they took our sheep but they said the animals were illegally grazing in the forest.” Elgeyo
Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen reprimanded wardens in Kamelei near
the forest on Friday, saying it was wrong for the service to deny locals an
opportunity to graze their livestock in the forest. “We had a
meeting attended by the president [Uhuru Kenyatta] in this area and agreed that
people move out of the forest. Never did we say grazing is not
allowed,” Murkomen said. KFS North
Rift conservator Stephen Chesa noted it is illegal to graze animals in a gazetted forest
without a permit from the service. He said this is regulated and that farmers pay Sh100 for each animal to graze
in the forest for a month. Click here for the latest political stories