Never go to the supermarket on an empty stomach. Anyone on a diet knows this rule. The reasoning is if you’re hungry, you’re more likely to buy snacks, and more specifically, unhealthy ones: crisps, chocolate, ice cream — you name it — and end up wrecking your weight loss plans. The same rule applies before hitting the gym. If you exercise on an empty stomach, you’re more likely to eat back the calories you just burnt (if not more) immediately after. So, why am I talking about empty stomachs, yet I’m supposed to be reviewing The Big Elephant Cafe? Well, because you might want to take something light before going for a meal. This year’s edition of the Nairobi Restaurant Week started on January 25 and ends today (February 3 ). This is the time for foodies to sample restaurants at a relatively lower cost than you would on usual days, and in the process, perhaps get a few new restaurants to add to your list of eating-out places. After seeing a few photos of Instagrammers at the cafe, The Big Elephant seemed like a nice place to sample, but we left disappointed. First, a picture is not worth a thousand words in this case, because the ambience did not turn out to be as good as it seemed on photos. The cafe is located on City Park Drive on Limuru Road. The signature artefacts at the cafe are a yellow and green tuk tuk and elephant head piece on the wall. The cafe has a rustic look, and there is seating space both inside and on the balcony. I’ll give the place marks for the balcony seating, which is relaxed, with a good view of Muthaiga. But for what we are all interested in — food — there was nothing to write home about. First, the portion was ‘small’. I put small in quotes, because to be honest, the portion is right because it is enough to make you satisfied, but not full to the point you have to open your zip to breathe. But let’s be honest, when many people go out, we want to eat till we cannot walk. We want to get the most out of paying twice or thrice of what we would have than if we just cooked the meal ourselves, right? So, yes, I admit I was satisfied after eating, but I was disappointed because I had gone prepared to massacre food. The NRW offer was Sh1,000 for a two-course meal — soup and a main dish. I picked the wrong soup, because it tasted like a whole lot of water and a blended tomato with some baby maize and vegetables thrown in. Worse still, it was cold. The menu said the minestrone soup would be hearty, but no such thing. My friend’s soup was better - cream chicken soup with a few pieces of chicken. For the main meal, I had fries, vegetables and grilled fish with butter sauce. The chips were too crispy for my liking, though my friend liked them. It’s about how you like your fries done. The fish was well cooked, as were the vegetables. My friend had beef stroganoff with parsley rice and veges. The rice was well-cooked (many restaurants tend to serve raw rice). And the beef was good, too. The food was not served hot, again. On balance, the meal was okay, but not to die for.  Star Rating: 3/5