Was Wiper MP Benson Momanyi (Borabu) sacrificed by his counterparts from other parties for his harsh attack on Raila Odinga’s ODM party? The outspoken MP had previously castigated Orange House for grabbing powerful positions in the 12th Parliament in disregard of other parties in the coalition. The lawmaker was axed from the list of nominees to the Parliamentary Service Commission and replaced by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr. ***** There is disquiet at the ministry of Health over the promotion of a certain officer who is said to have been catapulted into the position from another ministry without the requisite qualifications. The official is however believed to have tight connections with influential bosses in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. Moles have confided to Corridors that the ministry has not been promoting its officers, despite having approvals from the Public Service. Queries have been raised on how Uhuru will rollout the Big Four agenda with such officials planted in various State departments. ***** Is a certain prominent leader of the Opposition NASA still on the payroll of the ruling Jubilee Party? Well, Corridors is informed that the vocal operative, who voted for Uhuru Kenyatta and was instrumental in Raila Odinga’s oathing as the ‘People’s President’ on January 30, was a hireling of Jubilee until he breached his terms of engagement. Jubilee paid for his sustenance and travel costs, complete with a car, just to checkmate top NASA leaders. NASA insiders are said to have been wary of dealing with him because they don’t know when the chameleon will change its colours... ***** Is anyone trying to sabotage the Constituency Development Funds? Well, Corridors has learned that three-quarters of the 2017/2018 Financial Year is almost lapsing, but each of the 290 constituencies has received only Sh5 million towards the constituency administration. Queries are being raised as to why the funds have been withheld at the National Treasury, despite the National Government CDF Board approving the budget proposals of various constituencies. Our moles reveal that there are unspecified powerful individuals within the government slowing down the CDF gravy train. ***** Still on the CDF, a first-term MP from Nyanza is on the spot for misusing the facility to ferry adulterated alcoholic drinks believed to belong to certain drug peddler in the lakeside city. The middle-aged woman, who has been in the business for years, is said to be using the GK registration vehicle either in the wee hours of the morning or very late in the night. The MP, known for his love of women, is said to be having a long-time affair with the popular vendor.