The Migori government plans to boost capacity of the Gogo Hydroelectric Power Station to 60MW, end the local shortage and sell the rest to the national grid. The plant’s current rating is 2MW. It comprises two turbines. The upgrade will help stabilise electricity needs and generate revenue, Governor Okoth Obado said on Tuesday. He spoke during the opening of he county assembly after recess. The county faces frequent blackouts. Obado said this discourages investment in urban and rural areas. He said Migori will use 15MW of power produced and the balance will be sold to the national grid. “Regular power outage is really affecting the operations of our Jua Kali sector. The cost of electricity is also very high. Electricity should be made cheaper,” he said. The county plans to partner with KenGen to help in production. The Water and Energy department will purchase transformers in partnership with KPLC to connect villages to the national grid. Obado said his administration will try to end the water shortage in major towns. The county will connect more than 108,000 households to piped water, he said. “My government will also rehabilitate boreholes, protect springs with high yields and develop dams and other water sources,” the county chief said. Stalled projects will be completed and put into operation across the county, Obado said. clean environment is key to economic growth, he said. The Environment department will buy six garbage trucks.. “The department is also in the process of acquiring two fire engines to ensure prompt emergency response,” he said. Earlier, the governor met Kenya Forestry Research Institute director Ben Chikamai. They deliberated on ways to establish and conserve bamboo forests. Chikamai said the bamboo value chain could create many jobs for residents. He said Rongo bamboo nurseries have employed more than 60 youth, women and people living with disability. They produce seedlings for sale. Bamboo is used to make poles, boards, furniture, tools and bagasse for biofuel and building materials. Farmers can get better returns from growing bamboo, Obado said. Chikamai urged locals to practise agroforestry to increase forest cover, while also producing food and cash crops such as tobacco and sugarcane. Obado said integration of trees and crops can transform the county and urged residents to take advantage of the opportunity. “I’m ready to work with the Kenya Forestry Research Institute for our people to benefit from this programme,” he said.