The FBI has publicly challenged a
push by Republican lawmakers to release a controversial memo which
purports to show anti-Trump bias at the agency. "We have grave
concerns about the material omissions of fact that fundamentally impact
the memo's accuracy," the FBI said in a statement. A top Trump aide said on Wednesday they would release the top secret document "pretty quick", despite the objections. Democrats claim the memo is an attempt to discredit the FBI-led Russia probe. "It
will be released here pretty quick, I think, and the whole world can
see it," White House chief of staff John Kelly said during an interview
with Fox News Radio on Wednesday morning. Hours later, the FBI
issued a rare statement saying that it had had "limited opportunity" to
review the document before the House Intelligence committee voted to
release it on Monday. "We are committed to working with the
appropriate oversight entities to ensure the continuing integrity of the
FISA (Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) process," the FBI
statement added. What is the memo? The
four-page memo, which was compiled by staffers for the House
Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes, claims that the Department
of Justice abused the surveillance programme known as FISA to unfairly
target a member of the Trump campaign. According to lawmakers who
have reviewed it, the document purports to show that the agency obtained
a warrant to spy on a Trump campaign aide after submitting as evidence
the unproven "Russian dossier". That dossier was compiled by
former British intelligence agent Christopher Steele with money financed
in part from the Hillary Clinton campaign. Trump
was heard following his State of the Union speech on Tuesday night
telling a Republican lawmaker that he is "100%" for releasing the
document, but on Wednesday White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders told
CNN "there's always a chance" that it will not be released. But Kelly was less equivocal, telling Fox News on Wednesday morning that Mr
Trump "wants everything out so the American people can make up their
own minds and if there's people to be held accountable, then so be it". Why is it controversial? Before
the FBI statement on Wednesday, the Department of Justice had already
said it would be "extraordinary reckless" to release the document. Democrats,
whose efforts to release a competing memo were blocked by the
committee, claim that Nunes cherry-picked highly classified
information that they say could jeopardise national security. They
argue the memo is an effort to embarrass the FBI and discredit the
investigation, led by special counsel Robert Mueller, into alleged
Russian meddling and possible obstruction of justice by members of the
Trump administration. After
firing FBI director James Comey, Trump reportedly asked his
temporary replacement Andrew McCabe how he had voted in the 2016
presidential election. McCabe, who briefly served as acting agency director, resigned amid public accusations of Democratic bias from Mr Trump. He was planning to retire in March. Latest reaction Chairman
Nunes, who served on the Trump team during his White House transition,
said on Wednesday it was "no surprise" that the FBI has objected to the
memo's release. "Having stonewalled Congress' demands for
information for nearly a year, it's no surprise to see the FBI and DoJ
issue spurious objections to allowing the American people to see
information related to surveillance abuses at these agencies," he said. A
top Democrat on the House committee, Adam Schiff, said that releasing
the memo "increases the risk of a constitutional crisis by setting the
stage for subsequent actions by the White House to fire [Special Counsel
Robert] Mueller or, as now seems more likely, Deputy Attorney General
Rod J Rosenstein". Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein, who serves
on the Senate Intelligence committee, said that the Republicans are
clearly trying to "undermine the special counsel's investigation". "There's no excuse for playing politics with highly classified information," Feinstein added. 