Mount Elgon MP Fred Kapondi has dismissed claims that IEBC's planned boundaries review will see the introduction of new constituencies. He said the changes which lead to creation of new constituencies can only be approved through a referendum by universal suffrage. The legislator, who is vice chair of Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee of the National Assembly, said additional constituencies can neither be created nor the existing ones reduced. "Let Kenyans not to
confuse the planned review of electoral boundaries for creation of new
electoral zones," he told mourners at a funeral in Kinyoro ward on Saturday. On February 15, IEBC asked Parliament to allocate them Sh8 billion to
conduct a second review of the ward and constituency boundaries within
four years. Chairman Wafula Chebukati and the commissioners made the request when they
appeared before the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee
chaired by Ndaragua MP Jeremiah Kioni. Chebukati said the review process
is scheduled to start this month until August 2021. He said
the constituencies can be increased or reduced basing on the number of factors including
cultural practices of the communities. Read: IEBC wants Sh8bn for review of boundaries The government
has been creating new provincial administration units manned by chiefs, assistant county commissioners, deputy commissioners and county
commissioners. Also read: Cabinet passes bill retaining provincial administration Kapondi said the the review will only affect the boundaries of
the voting zones since the creation of new ones must be endorsed through a
referendum. He rallied leaders to educate Kenyans on the constituency review guidelines. "It is important that those
who are interested in the increase of new electoral zones brace themselves for
a referendum because that is the only way there can be a change," he said. Former Trans Nzoia Senator
Henry Ole Ndiema said the Sh8 billion the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is seeking for the review is high. "That amount is too much. Parliament must put in to account the
country’s economic status when allocating funds for the exercise. Sh1 billion is enough," Ndiema said. Article 89 of the Constitution reads: "There shall be 290 constituencies for the purposes of
the election of the members of the National Assembly provided for in
Article 97 (1) (a)..." "...the IEBC shall review the names and boundaries of
constituencies at intervals of not less than eight years and not more
than 12 years but any review shall be completed at least 12 months
before a general election of Members of Parliament." Click here for the latest political news  