At least 100,000 Coast students will miss the Tuesday deadline to produce validated birth certificates before registration, a Knut official has said. Kilindini Executive Director and Coast National Executive Council member Dan Aloo blamed the government. “The government can’t force parents to produce birth certificates for identification of children without facilitating this at the local levels and villages,” he said on phone Tuesday. “We demand the issuance be done at schools in order to reduce time wastage and absenteeism.” The Huduma Center and the registrar’s office at Bima Tower in Mombasa, where these documents are obtained, were fully packed as parents rushed to beat the deadline. Yusuf Ali, a parent, said he failed to secure a birth certificate 16 days later after initiating its processing, a procedure that normally takes two weeks. “With all these people here, I don’t think I will have it today. I don’t know the fate of my son,” he said. He urged the government to extend the deadline. The government said Tuesday was the last day for students to produce these documents which will generate unique identifiers for use during exams. Those already with the documents were asked to validate them. This year’s KCPE and KCSE candidates will not be identified through index numbers. With the birth certificate, a student’s name and details will be fed onto a Ministry of Education portal, the gateway to the National Education Management System. The system was yet to be shut down by press-time. After details arekeyed into the system, unique identifiers for all learners are produced. The identifier will be used until the completion of education. Concerns have been raised about purchase and management of school resources such as books, the government blaming collision between school heads and cartels. The government hopes that with the unique code, resources and their usage will be easier to track. Kenya also hopes to eliminate exam cheating or ease the pressure students endure in search of index numbers. Click here for the latest political news