Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi
is on the spot over unexplained expenditure of Sh56.5 million by the Amani National Congress Party in
the run up to last year's General Election. According to the financial records seen by the Star,  the party
spent Sh100.98 million but is unable to account for more than half of the amount it
raised in the year ended December 31, 2017. In several instances, expenses that lack supporting
documents gobbled up sums bigger than amounts allocated. Read: Jubilee spent Sh312m prior to August 8 polls, says report The differences can be accounted for.
For instance, under nominations expenses, Sh4.7 million can be accounted for while Sh6.7
million [58.7 per cent] of the total amount used, lacked proper supporting
documents. ANC allocated Sh6.799 million to salaries last year, but the party could not
account for Sh4.078 million spent.The statement lists the party’s sources of funds as member contributions (Sh56.097
million), fund raisers and donations (Sh21.737 million), uncategorized income
(Sh22.128 million) and subscriptions from Party Parliamentary Group members (Sh1.02 million). A member who declined to be named said the party
could take legal action against Osotsi if found culpable. Osotsi was the party's secretary general until last August, when he joined Parliament. “The committee will set its own date for hearing. There is a very angry mood at ANC right now over the issue,” the member said.Treasurer Geoffrey Anyembe defended himself, saying the audit of the party's
books is not yet complete. He said all documents will be availed in time. Related: How Jubilee and NASA spent millions on election campaigns“Look at salaries for example. The personnel and the documents are there. The software is there and the documents are available. The report was done in a hurry. The documents will be availed within three to five days,” Anyembe said.The party's disciplinary committee has summoned Osotsi to
explain the discrepancies. Osotsi said the accusations against him are part of a witch-hunt
orchestrated by party leader Musalia Mudavadi to divert attention from queries over his decision to snub Raila Odinga's swearing in as the "People's President” last month. He claims that the financial probe has been fabricated to implicate him and that the issues are part of a case before the Political Parties
Disputes Tribunal (PPDT) challenging the appointment of Barack Muluka as the
new secretary general. He says he will not honour the disciplinary committee's summons until the case is determined. “That is nonsense. These are fabrications and diversion tactics to stop people from
asking where the party leader was during Raila's swearing-in,” Osotsi said.Osotsi risks losing his seat in the National Assembly if he is found culpable and prosecuted.The party's National Executive Committee and PPG met early last week to deliberate on the findings of the audit,
among other issues that have divided members.The meeting, whose details were leaked to the Star by an insider, revealed
that the disciplinary committee has received complaints from members who claim
they were blackmailed into offering bribes in return for appearing on the
ballot on the ANC ticket in last year's elections. Click here for the latest political news