World Boxing Council (WBC) Super bantamweight women champion, Fatuma ‘Iron Fist’ Zarika is the StarTimes/SJAK Sports Personality of the Month for December 2017. Zarika beat national chess champion, Joyce Nyaruai, and four-time Safari Rally winner, Carl Tundo, to emerge the sixth recipient of the coveted prize. The 34-year-old pugilist was unanimously voted by a panel of journalists following her successful title defence against Zambian Catherine Phiri at the Carnivore grounds in Nairobi on December 2. Zarika won the brutal bout on points after she scored 97-92, 98-91 and 99-92 from the three international judges, who presided over the fight. The victory in front of an adoring home support extended her win record to 30, of which 17 have been via knock-outs. The victory saw Zarika bestowed Head of State Commendation (HSC) honour by President Uhuru Kenyatta as Kenya celebrated her 54th Jamhuri Day on December 12. “I was happy to retain the belt. The win was an inspiration that hard work pays in the end. I’m hoping to defend the title again this year,” said Zarika who was the only sportsperson on the HSC list. Zarika received the monthly award on Thursday at the Taj Mall Gymnasium in Nairobi where she is currently training ahead of another title defence later this year. “This is a great surprise, thank you StarTimes for being the sponsors and SJAK for considering me for this prize. This truly goes a long way to inspire and motivate me to work harder. It is also an inspiration to other boxers,” she underlined. The mother of two walked away with a trophy, StarTimes 42-inch digital television set and Sh100,000. “Zarika has been outstanding throughout in her career. We are humbled to present her this award. She is an inspiration to many, especially girls who are eager to take up boxing as a career in the future,” StarTimes director of marketing and PR, Japheth Akhulia, said. “As a brand, StarTimes will endeavor to encourage our sports men and women through these awards as a way of recognizing their dedicated efforts in the industry.”