 Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday said he is ready to be sworn in as the 'People's Deputy President'. And even though this is illegal he said he is ready to face the consequences. The NASA co-principal told supporters, however, should he rush to be sworn in before proper consultations, Jubilee might pounce on him and scuttle his 2022 presidential bid. “We need serious analysis of the situation before I take the oath. We are not afraid,” Kalonzo said in Athi River when he closed a Wiper Women's League forum. Kalonzo, who has come under scathing criticism over his snub of the January 30 oath, said he is not a coward. He said he is only treading carefully to avoid falling into Jubilee's trap. His co-principal Raila Odinga swore himself in as the 'People's President'. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent The former Vice President said he and Raila were aware taking the oath was unconstitutional, but were ready to do so because of frustrations by the rogue Jubilee regime. Kalonzo said had he turned up for the oath last month, then the ruling alliance could have arrested, charged him and even  connived with courts to deny him bail. “My prosecution could have been hastened. I could have been put under difficult situation if I took the oath,” he said. "They [Jubilee] could have made it difficult for me to secure bond for my release and even withdrawn my passport." The State has cracked down on politicians who attended Raila's swearing-in. It has deported Miguna Miguna, the self-styled National Resistance Movement General who administered Raila's oath, revoked NASA MPs' passports, withdrawn their security and firearms. The State also arrested TJ Kajwang', who presided over Raila's swearing-in. Miguna was deported to Canada after five days of incarceration despite a court order to have him produced. The court has ordered the State to reinstate the MPs' security. Yesterday Kalonzo who initially claimed police blocked him from attending the swearing-in at Uhuru Park, said the speculations on his swearing-in this month were being propagated by Jubilee. This is meant to cause disunity in NASA. He said he will take the oath but on a date that will be publicly announced by the opposition coalition’s leadership after the principals finish consultation on sticking issues. “We have very serious audit on what happened to NASA leaders after the coalition’s presidential candidate Raila Odinga was sworn in on January 30, 2018. We are consulting on the matter,” Kalonzo said. Read: ODM hijacked Raila and Kalonzo swearing-in plans, Wiper says In what appeared to contradict plans by the People's Assembly coordinating committee, Kalonzo said suggestions that there will be a convention in Nairobi later this month for him to be sworn in were inaccurate. Kalonzo said the fact that he snubbed Raila’s swearing-in did not make him a lesser principal in NASA. He said he should not be criticised for failing to attend the event since he could have not been sworn in even if he attended. Kalonzo said NASA had agreed that Raila takes the oath first before he takes his. “We will announce it if we settle on a date for my swearing in, I could have not taken the oath even if I were at Uhuru Park during Raila’s inauguration,” Kalonzo said. “Raila was to go first, that was the NASA’s strategy,” added he. Kalonzo has been accused of blowing hot and cold on the swearing-in plans, with some NASA leaders pushing for him to take the oath as a sign of his commitment to the opposition's ant-Jubilee push. Read: I haven't betrayed you, will take oath soon, Kalonzo tells supporters  Click here for the latest political news