THERE seems to be a problem in Makueni. Some residents are unhappy with County Commissioner Rashid Mohammed. It’s alleged that a few weeks ago he ordered Administration Police officers to block Governor Kivutha Kibwana (pictured) from accessing a shared government office block. Security officers in the know told Corridors that trouble started after Kibwana reportedly declined to authorise funding for national public events presided over by the County Commissioner. Prof Kibwana is now preparing to relocate to an ultra-modern office for the governor that is ready for occupation. ARE some Opposition MPs planning to go into hiding today for fear of arrest? Well, while many of them have taken up preventive bail from the courts, our mole yesterday heard a group of NASA MPs saying how they will remain ‘out of reach’ from today. They claim police are planning to arrest a number of them today and take advantage of the weekend to lock them up to Monday. One MP was heard saying even his cell phone will not be reachable for the entire weekend. A former bodyguard to a former MP and gubernatorial candidate in the last General Election in Nyanza is on the radar of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The policeman, of the rank of Inspector, now working at the EACC, has been forging letters with the institutional letterhead implicating the current governor in corruption. Our sources say it’s just a matter of time before the hunter becomes the hunted. Several documents seen circulating on social media point to him as the source and his colleagues are narrowing down on his activities and movements. SO who ordered police to clear from Uhuru Park on January 30 and foreclose a confrontation with NASA supporters during Raila Odinga’s swearing-in ceremony? A top Jubilee operative was overheard praising the smart move. With the Interior docket having the largest share of the budget, the person told his friends along a Kiambu Road restaurant that, “First, the opposition was caught off-guard because there was no violence. Then, many people lost tenderpreneur opportunities. The taxpayers won on this day.” THE frequency with which bloggers are being arrested in Kisiiland is suspicious. With most of them being anti-government, political pundits on the ground believe someone is determined to hide certain information from the ground in favour of his or her agenda. The trend started after the swearing-in of Raila Odinga last week, which saw the formation of a WhatsApp group. A number of the members of the WhatsApp group have been arrested. They say the person behind the clampdown must be very powerful or influential.