Jubilee Party has noted its right to complain about a "rogue" Judiciary, saying some sections are "biased" against it. President Uhuru Kenyatta's party stated its position through Twitter on Friday using  #RogueJudiciary. Jubilee said some of the members of the Judiciary are always ready to protect the Opposition whenever it breaks the law, but never do the same for the ruling party. "Whenever Jubilee or GoK is perceived to have broken the law, it rains fury, but clearly the same standards do not apply to the Opposition," it wrote. "Sections of the Judiciary are biased against Jubilee. We have no capacity to issue or implement any threats. That is why we do not, but we do have the right to complain against unjust orders and rulings." [AUDIO] Judiciary and media an extension of Nasa, Tuju tells BBC The party noted that when National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga was sworn-in as the People's President on January 30, Chief Justice David Maraga refused to comment on the matter. "When the NRM illegally swore-in their leaders, we were told the CJ could not comment on the matter lest it landed on his desk. But he went ahead to comment on the Miguna issue even though it was alive in court." Lawyer Miguna Miguna stamped documents during Raila's ceremony and was deported to Canada for this reason. His passports were also seized in police and court drama that lasted about five days. Police bosses defied orders to take the National Resistance Movement general to court and release him from custody. Following the defiance, Maraga noted in a press conference that all Kenyans must respect and adhere to all court orders. Details: All Kenyans must follow court orders, Maraga says after Miguna drama Uhuru's party issued these remarks in response to former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga's castigation of its Secretary General Raphael Tuju, who wrote the Judiciary a protest letter. Tuju took issue on Wednesday with Maraga's judgement which saw Uhuru's
August 8, 2017 election nullified. He accused the CJ and the Judiciary
of partiality, singling out decisions that have worked in Nasa's favour. In his response to the developments, Mutunga said the move reflected "arrogance of power and utter disrespect of the institution of the Chief Justice as head of the Judiciary". More on this: Nullifying Uhuru's win almost burned Kenya, Tuju protests to Maraga Also read:  'Arrogant' Tuju's letter aimed to intimidate Maraga personally - Willy Mutunga Uhuru has been seen as stamping his authority through moves following his swearing-in for the second term on November 28. On February 14, he dropped Attorney General
Githu Muigai and demoted Solicitor General Njee Muturi in changes that
ultimately target the Supreme Court and the Judiciary in general. Githu was replaced by Appeal Court President Mwangi Kihara
while Njee's position was taken by lawyer Kennedy Ogetto, who was part
of Uhuru's ICC legal team. But it is the nomination of three members to the Judicial
Service Commission that signaled the President's intention to live up to
his threat to revisit the Judiciary. More on this: Is Uhuru targetting Supreme Court? Also see: [VIDEO] Attorney General Githu Muigai resigns, Uhuru nominates Justice Paul Kihara Click here for the latest political stories 