NASA supporters were on Thursday directed to remove all of president Uhuru Kenyatta's portraits from their business premises. "We are ordering NRM soldiers to take down Uhuru portraits from all homes, businesses and every premise they occupy," Miguna Miguna said. During a press conference at the Opposition's Okoa Kenya offices, Miguna said the coalition will produce legitimate portraits of 'President Raila Odinga'. "... and we will distribute the portraits ourselves. We are going to do it in an organised and fashioned way," he said. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent On January 30, the government declared NASA's National Resistance Movement as an organised criminal group. The group was formed on October 25, 2017, a day before the repeat presidential elections which followed the nullification of President Uhuru Kenyatta's election in August. But Miguna, who helped administer Raila's oath on January 30, said they "will ensure that the coalition reclaims what was stolen from them". "The people of Kenya decided to reclaim their power. We will ensure that the illegitimate despots return back to the people what they rigged," he said. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, in a statement on Tuesday, invoked Section 22 of the Prevention Organised Crimes Act, 2010 to declare the opposition movement as "an organised criminal group". More on this: State declares National Resistance Movement criminal group Also read: 'Liberation struggle on': Raila forms People's Assembly DARES STATE ARREST Miguna further dared Matiang'i to arrest him for administering the oath to the Opposition leader. "Matiang'i if you are looking for me, I am ready and I have been ready since I was a teenager," he said. It was reported that Flying Squad officers were looking for Miguna hours after arresting Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang'. The latter attended the swearing in fete at Uhuru Park. "...we fought retired President Daniel Moi and defeated him. You [Matiang'i] are nothing," Miguna said. Kajwang was arrested at the Milimani law court before being taken to the Nairobi PCIO on Wednesday. In a statement, Kajwang said he is ready to pay the ultimate price for his role in 'swearing in' Raila. More on this: TJ Kajwang arrested for administering Raila's oath Related: Duly elected my foot, Raila says of Uhuru's presidency Click here for the latest political news