National athletics head coach to the African Cross Country Championships, John Kimetto, has expressed his confidence in retaining the African crown a day after Team Kenya to the March 14 showpiece in Chlef, Algeria, was named. Kimetto said despite missing the services of top cross country runners like World Cross country and World Half Marathon champion Geofrey Kamworor, World Half silver medallist and former World Cross second finisher Bedan Karoki and world 5000m champion Hellen Obiri, Kimetto said the athletes picked during a grueling national trials had all the credentials to retain the title they won in Yaoundé, Cameroon two years ago. Kamworor and Karoki are keen on the World Half Marathon set for Valencia while Obiri has placed her focus on the World Indoor Champions, next month. Kimetto said: “The selected team is strong since it has both experienced athletes and first timers. Since it’s a team event combining the experienced and upcoming runners will be crucial since the rookies will be ambitious enough to challenge their more experienced compatriots.” “We will miss Kamworor, a renowned runner at this level but just like in 2016, where he also missed out, we will still strive to do our best. We have a great advantage that Kenya has a large pool of athletes to do national duty and it offers a great chance for future stars to announce themselves at the continental level.” Kimetto doesn’t expect too much of trouble in retaining their title. “I do not see any country which will give us much resistance. We will be analysing the selected athletes from all participating countries and see how we will tackle them. Meanwhile, it’s evident Team Kenya will have a smooth ride in the championships, going by the calibre of the selected representatives.” With less limited time to prepare for the event, Kimetto said: “We have less than a month to the championships and I have to prepare the team especially the new entrants. Preparing them physiologically at this point is key. Managing flight and excitement is important to them and I would request them to learn from their seniors. I want them to understand that there is no difference between the trials and the championships it’s all competition.” 