The widow of the murdered Kiru Boys' principal has asked the court to review her bond terms due to her health. Jane Muthoni told the court she also needs to acquire school fees for her children. Muthoni, who appeared before judge Joel Ngugi on Thursday, said her in-laws had been harassing her family. "I pray for this court to intervene as my in-laws are harassing my family. The court had ordered that I be given access to belongings such as title deeds and other important documents, which are in my house, but when I sent my mother there he was called a murderer." Principal Solomon Mwangi was murdered between November 6 and November 11, 2016 and his mutilated body was found in Kiahuria farm, Kiambu county. His hands were tied, face badly bruised and some of his teeth were missing. Read; Wife arrested in grisly slaying of Kiru Boys School principal Muthoni said she was suffering in cells and that her health was deteriorating. "I am willing to have my closest family, even my daughter, deposit their identification cards and also become my witnesses. I will not interfere with the case or run away. I have in the past accorded police full cooperation," she added. The court has, on three occasions, denied her application for release on bond. Muthoni is charged alongside Isaac Ng'ang'a alias Gikuyu. The main suspect, one Mr Njiru, is still at large. Related: Judge in Kiru Boys murder trial won’t quit, says he’s not biased Regarding the school fees, Muthoni said her children were suffering due to lack of it and that they have had to borrow money from friends in order to return to school. "The court ordered that a blank cheque be given so that the custodians are able to pay school fees for my children but up to now, nothing has happened. My daughter, who is in university, has had to borrow money from my friends to pay school fees even for the other children," Muthoni said. Prosecutor Catherine Mwaniki told the court that the four remaining witnesses were ready. Judge Ngugi told the accused that the claims raised in court were noted but that he could not overturn his own ruling on the bond terms. Ngugi told the prosecution to make their final submissions on March 6 and 7. The court will rule on March 21 on whether the accused has a case to answer. Also read; I was offered Sh200,000 to extract Kiru principal's messages, murder case witness tells court   