Recently, the White House asked the Guggenheim
Museum in New York to loan a painting by Van Gogh. The request was declined.
Instead, the Museum offered the 18-karat gold toilet titled ‘America’ by an
Italian sculptor Maurizio Cattelan. Cattelan (born in 1960) is best known for his
satires: a Pope struck down by a meteorite (‘The Ninth Hour’, 1999), Adolf
Hitler on his knees (‘Him’, 2001), a dead Pinocchio face down in a fountain (‘Daddy, Daddy’, 2008), and a
head of himself breaking through the museum floor (‘Untitled’, 2001). His work has
sold for millions of dollars, and he has been called everything from ‘the great
post-Duchampian’, to an ‘art world prankster’, ‘joker’, and ‘smartass’. Starting his art career as a furniture maker
in the 1980s, Cattelan gained a reputation utilising the technique called
taxidermy (stuffing animals) stuffing a squirrel slumped over a kitchen table
with a gun at its feet (‘Bidibidobidiboo’, 1996), and a racehorse that he
hanged from the ceiling by a harness (‘Novecento’, 1997).  Later Cattelan began making life-size wax
models of various subjects and people, including himself, and producing the
magazines made out of the pages torn from other publications (‘Charley’ and
‘Permanent Food’), or out of the original images with a twist and ambiguity
(‘Toilet Paper’ magazine). When looking at Catellan’s art do not seek
visual pleasure. You will not find the harmony of shapes or balance of the
colours. To get his point across, Cattelan uses simple puns and clichés to
mocks various systems and ideas, like substituting animals for people, for
example. His originality, he says, comes from his “capacity to add”. Similar to
Andy Warhol, he loves to discover the mundane in just about any object,
personality, or event. “To probe the unconscious,” he explains. With regard to the toilet ‘America’, I believe
it is still installed in a bathroom on the four floor of the Guggenheim Museum,
fully operational, and anyone can use it; the wait time is about two hours
though… ‘What does it mean?' people
ask.  One visitor who used it said: “I
peed in ‘America’ and wasn’t sure whether to laugh or cry”. Others said they
saw in ‘America’ the Marcel Duchamp’s urinal, ‘the Trump’s gilded excess’, or
even a metaphor for our love of shiny objects. But, what do You see?  Alla
Tkachuk is the founder of the Kenyan creative thinking school MASK, alla@mobileartschoolinkenya.org