Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has refuted claims that the county is losing revenue through its JamboPay system. Sonko issued a statement on Monday saying the county had sealed all loopholes used by cartels to guzzle public money. Related: We’d have lost millions if we ended JamboPay deal – Sonko The Governor announced the county will collect Sh1.7 billion in February, Sh100 million more than was collected in January. He sreported that by mid-February, the County had collected Sh903 million through JamboPay. "We have sealed all corruption loopholes. All unscrupulous traders and rogue county staff who think they will survive on corruption have been put on notice. We are here to serve Nairobians," he said. Last week, Finance Executive Vesca Kangogo told a committee of the Assembly that City Hall has incurred huge revenue losses due to frequent failure of the online system. Kangogo said City Hall has automated more than 90 per cent of its 136 revenue streams, pushing its daily collections to between Sh80 and Sh100 million, up from between Sh7 million and Sh10 million before the automation. JamboPay chief executive Danson Muchemi, however, denied the claims, and instead blamed frequent internet disruptions at City Hall and weak enforcement by the county for the continued dismal revenue performance. Muchemi said JamboPay has integrated its systems with those of City Hall and that any time the internet connection to the county headquarters is disconnected, its operations are also grounded. “They are not paying for Internet on time. We experience issues in areas such as the instant generation of receipts. We get them from their internal systems so if there is no internet, there is nothing much we can do,” he said. Read: Pay your internet bill, don’t fault us for lost cash, says JamboPay But Sonko said that when he assumed office, the County was only collecting Sh 70 million every month. He said noted that after automation of systems, about Sh70 million is collected daily. The Governor further said that he issued an order last year for the increased automation of cash collections as direct payments facilitate corruption, leading to loss of revenue. Sonko contracted JamboPay to collect revenue on behalf of Nairobi County, leading to the automation of 134 out of 136 billing services. There were troubles last week when a section of MCAs last week demanded the removal of JamboPay cashiers from City Hall. This affected revenue collection as there was a nosedive from Sh80 million to Sh45 million in collections on the day they were removed. According to data from the finance office, the County collected Sh1.631 billion in January. Business licenses topped as revenue earners at Sh512 million and were followed by land rates at Sh306 million. Parking ranked third with Sh140 million while the fire department issued fire permits worth Sh115 million. Construction permits brought in Sh61 million while the rental income was Sh49 million. Other top contributors included market rents, advertisements and Liquor Licenses. Sonko said betting and hospital payments which have not been digitised will soon be automated to curb corruption. Click here for the latest political news