A week is a long time in politics, British Prime Minister Harold Wilson said. So, this week, so much happened in African soil that you barely recognise this continent anymore. It first started with Angola’s Eduardo dos Santos stepping down last year and this week, Jacob Zuma and Ethiopia’s Hailemariam Desalegn resigned. Morgan Tsvangirai, Zimbabwe’s main opposition leader, died on Wednesday of colon cancer. This obviously changes the dynamics of domestic politics in those countries and by extension Africa. In South Africa, there have been several attempts to remove President Jacob Zuma, including a motion of no confidence, following corruption allegations. Now, after years of attempts to remove him, and months of speculation, he exited on Wednesday night just hours after a lengthy interview on SABC. In Zimbabwe, the death of Tsvangirai didn’t really come as a surprise — not that many were waiting for his death, but he had been ailing for two months. The media had reported his illness, since last year. The same goes for the political developments in South Africa. However, it is the resignation of Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desaleg that surprised many. So that many people in the region and on social media — who didn’t have the opportunity to watch the televised address — had to verify the news not to fall for fake news. In his resignation, he said by resigning, he hoped to end years of unrest and political upheaval. “My resignation is vital in the bid to carry out reforms that would lead to sustainable peace and democracy,” he said. Hundreds of people have died in three years of anti-government protests, which started in 2015 amid calls for political and economic reform and an end to state corruption. It was largely centred in Oromia and Amhara regions. A 10-month national state of emergency ended last year. But the developments in Ethiopia haven’t really been reported to give an idea or speculation that the PM would opt out. It zeros in to the freedom of press. My Ethiopian friend tells me almost all the media outlets in Ethiopia are state-owned and they can only report what the government wants them to. “I would say the entire country is in total darkness and majority of Ethiopians rely on the diaspora based bloggers and activists for the news,” he told me. Government control of the country’s primary printing press also allows for prepublication censorship of newspapers. This draws me to what is happening in the country. The moment we allow the government to limit the freedom of press, it will be very hard to actually tell stories that affect the very people advocating its muzzling.  Kibii comments on current and international affairs