ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi did not say NASA leader Raila Odinga betrayed his co-principals when he met Luhya elders at the weekend, the Star has learnt. All he did was explain the events leading to Raila’s swearing-in on January 30 in Uhuru Park and why he did not show up. “I never said Raila betrayed us. I would never use such words,” Mudavadi said. The Star yesterday reported that Mudavadi told the elders Raila tricked his co-principals into missing the oath taking ceremony. But yesterday Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli said the ANC leader did not attack Raila during the closed-door meeting at his Khwisero home but only explained that some things were not clear at the time. "He told us what happened. We agreed that he will remain the Luhya spokesman and the best candidate to back for president in 2022," Atwoli said. Related  : Defiant MPs summoned to State House ANC has set up a nine-member disciplinary committee to handle the cases of rebel MPs accused of working with external forces to destabilise the party. Last week, the party singled out Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi as some of the leaders being used to destabilise the party and kill Mudavadi's 2022 chances. ANC parliamentary group chairman Ayub Savula said the group is either sponsored by Juibilee or ODM to cause trouble in Mudavadi's party. “If you want to go to Jubilee you can go. If you want to go to ODM you go,” Savula told the rebels. On Tuesday, Mudavadi chaired the party's joint National Executive Council and Parliamentary Group meeting, where the team to be led by deputy party leader Kipruto Kirwa was formed. The meeting was at the party's headquarters in Lavington, Nairobi. Other members include Savula, Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga Woman Representative), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Abdi Yare Mohamed (ANC vice chairman) and Mudavadi's aide Dan Ameyo to be members of the powerful committee. “We have addressed the need to enhance [high] levels of discipline in our own party and among ourselves as leaders,” Mudavadi said after the meeting. “In the coming days, we will institute the necessary measures towards this. We cannot expect to have a rational and disciplined nation that focuses on what is good for the country, when parties are not disciplined.” Both Malala and Osotsi skipped the meeting. The committee is expected to hold its first meeting on Tuesday next week to among other things deliberate on the issue of the rebel MPs who are accused of being disrespectful to the party leader and the party. Click here for the latest political news