The Chatur Group of Companies has clarified that the Madat Suburali Chatur, who was arrested alongside Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter in the Treasury Bills case, is neither the company's chairman nor a relative of the latter. The company also told their business partners that chairman Madat Saburali Chatur is not in any way involved in any manner with the Central Bank. "We also wish to warn any persons or entities that any misinformation that has been and may be disseminated to the effect that our chairman is involved in this matter shall face the full legal consequences of their actions," the company said in a statement. "We urge all persons to take great caution in the news they transmit both in print and electronic and social media without first getting their facts accurately." Chatur said his photo was stolen and used on the identification documents of the man arrested alongside Keter. Keter was arrested alongside two co-directors of Desai Industries Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa for allegedly trading in forged Treasury Bills valued at Sh633 million. Also read: Alfred Keter arrested over fake Sh633 million Treasury Bills The three were arrested at the Central Bank of Kenya by the Banking Fraud Investigation Unit detectives after they had gone to finalise on the deal. They were whisked away to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters. Keter, however, said he had been set up by his political opponents to escalate his woes in the Jubilee party. "I just came to assist you then you put me in your mess. Then why is the media here? This is a set up," he said. His accomplices remained silent during the arrest. It is said they had gone to meet CBK governor Patrick Njoroge with their lawyer in the process of redeeming the bills they claimed to have bought two decades ago. According to the CBK, investigations revealed the Treasury Bills were fraudulent and detectives invited them to Njoroge’s office  where the three were nabbed. Read: I’ve been set up, says Keter as he is arrested over fake T-bills Click here for the latest political news     