Lack of adequate financial resources is crippling the functions of the anti-FGM board, chairperson Bernadette Loloju has said. Loloju during an exclusive interview with The Star said the board needs sh300m every year to perform its mandate. During this financial year, the board was allocated Sh92M. “This amount is not enough. We cannot do much with it considering the fact that we are supposed to be visible across the country, Loloju said. Read: FGM survivors tell of ordeal, call for end to degrading painful practice Loloju said the country needs to consider ways they can use to support the fund locally, so as to avoid being over-dependent on donors. “Financial help is very hard to come by. Why is it so easy for a donor to contribute Sh10M for a breakfast campaign and it is an uphill task for them to donate the same amount to the board to drive a six-month campaign against FGM?” posed Loloju. In an effort to constantly keep the fire burning in the fight against female circumcision, former FGM boss Linah Jebii Kilimo urged non - governmental organizations to decentralize their activities to regions that are not well covered by the board and its partners. “Why are we having too many NGOs in one area? If we [NGOs] are all in Garissa County doing the same activities, isn’t that wasting money? Why can’t you also focus your energy on areas that have less coverage but are still recording little or no FGM incidences? Kilimo asked. Also read: How emerging tricks are derailing fight against FGM In a quick rejoinder, Loloju said NGOs working and those intending to help the board in end FGM should first report to the board so that they can be notified of the areas that they can offer them assistance. "If every organization does this then wastage of resources will not only be a thing of the past but the practice which is now being done at night will be a thing of the past," Loloju said. There are more than 50 civil society groups in the country working towards ending FGM in different countries. A number of them are in counties where FGM is still rampant despite the national prevalence being pegged at 21 per cent.  Click here for the latest political news 