Title: Outside Artiste: Burna Boy Genre: Hip hop/rap, Afro pop, Dancehall Release: January 26  Burna Boy has helped bring the African underground lifestyle to light, and in the process, he has earned his spot among top musical names around the world. Now more than ever, his music unpacks his musical persona, weighing his ambition against his reality. He joins the ranks of Davido and Wizkid, who've audaciously ventured into new global markets. His last performance in the country is still fresh in the minds of many. He received great condemnation from fans who had thronged Privée in Westlands, Nairobi. The reaction must have compelled Burna to work on a new project that most certainly has won him back his fanbase. The truth is, the Nigerian reggae-dancehall creative is not one to ignore. His latest full-length release, and first since 2015's "On A Spaceship", is his most spirited since his 2013 debut, "L.I.F.E. - Leaving an Impact for Eternity", and his most well-crafted one to date. "Outside" is an album that stays true to Burna's style of delivery and at the same time explores various sounds. It's expected that when Burna started his career, all he wanted was to create perfect tunes. Well, "Outside" gives us the kind of concept to think about. The crooner uses his heavy voice to deliver memorable tunes, such as City Vibration, Koni Baje, Sekkle Down, Heaven's Gate, Giddem and Outside. And in just under 45 minutes, he delivers his most remarkable 13-track attempt. Not only is the music on "Outside" better executed, Burna Boy has better things to sing about. Aside from ensuring the quality of his content aligns with international standards, he ensures he entertains. And it's such a project that he asserts that he is a force. From this release, I believe next time, Kenyan promoters will pay the artiste a proper sum for him to deliver a killer show. But until that is realised, Burna Boy has every right to act the way he did. He is among the best we have in the scene and he deserves the recognition he demands.  Star rating: 4/5