The government has released Sh3.8 billion to help more than 3.4 million Kenyans starving in 15 counties. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, however, said no deaths have been reported as a result of the drought. He said the money will be used to manage the situation until end of April, but added that his ministry has a plan running up to July. Read : At least 3.4 million Kenyans face starvation - Red Cross The current situation has been blamed on acute food shortage and drought. Wamalwa said the government will buy food and transfer cash to those starving. The state will also buy livestock that are at risk of dying from lack of water and pasture. "We will use Sh2.5 billion on food and cash transfers, Sh65 million on peace and security in the affected areas. Another Sh619 million will go towards livestock off-take, Sh100 million will go towards health and nutrition and Sh37 million will be sent to the counties for coordination," he said. Wamalwa spoke to the press in Nairobi. Also read : State assures of food supplies as Kenyan go hungry due to high cost of living Isiolo, Kajiado, Tana River and Garissa are the hardest-hit counties, the CS said. The drought and hunger situations in these areas are worsening by the day. "We have started distributing relief food to these counties. We started with Kajiado, where we distributed 5,000 bags of relief food. We are moving to Tana River next week, before going to Isiolo and Garissa," Wamalwa said. The government has also singled-out Baringo, Turkana and West Pokot as high risk areas. Residents of eight other counties – Mandera, Marsabit, Wajir, Samburu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Kitui and Tharaka Nithi - are also at risk. But the situation is not as severe. The government has been on the receiving end over its failure to act on drought and food situation warnings. But Wamalwa said the state has been acting on all warnings. He said the state has spent Sh17 billion since 2016. Donors have contributed Sh5.2 billion since April last year when the government declared drought a national disaster. "The government has been responding on a continuous basis since the earliest signs of drought were identified in July 2016," the CS said. Kenya Red Cross Society secretary general Abbas Gullet said the situation is dire and appealed for cash and food appeal from donors and well-wishers. "The situation is serious and it requires urgent attention," he said. Click here for the latest political news 