Avocado traders have said they will only export produce that meets global standards. This follows the lifting of a temporary ban by Kenya’s Agriculture and Food Authority. Selina Wamucii Ltd chief executive officer John Oroko yesterday said the ban had affected small-scale avocado growers and exporters. “It is good news for the growers who produce over 70 per cent of the avocados that are exported in Kenya,” he said. shortage Last month, the government imposed a ban on the export of all fuerte and hass varieties due to a shortage in the country. High demand, both locally and internationally, caused prices to surge and exporters began to compromise on maturity standards. “The temporary ban was a wake-up call for exporters to stop them shipping immature fruit to the world market,” Oroko said. “We are now getting into the main avocado season and hope all industry players comply with the export requirements. The responsibility is now on the exporters to follow the protocol to avoid any future suspension.” AFA had said the ban would be lifted after the February and March harvest seasons and issued standards to deter farmers and exporters from duping the system. Fuerte avocados should have a dull appearance. The stalk should be shrivelled and yellow. standards When cut and the seed removed, the seed coat should be dark brown, dry and not stick to the flesh. The fruit should also contain at least 20 per cent dry matter and above eight per cent oil content. The average price of a 90kg bag shot to Sh2,560, the highest price since May 2014, when the same bag cost slightly above Sh2,600. Kenya is among the world’s largest producer of avocados. Drought made production decline last year. a kenyan favourite A single avocado is currently selling for between Sh50 and Sh80 in Nairobi, up from between Sh10 and Sh20 each during high season. Many Kenyans like avocados. Many households blend it with other foods or eat it plain. Kenya is the world’s sixth largest producer of avocados.    