Sex doll Samantha was the most searched subject by Kenyans on Google in January. It was developed by Barcelona-based engineer Sergi Santos. The makers of the sex robot with artificial intelligence, which can be “seduced”, claim men are falling in love with it. Second place was Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service 2018 intake after it opened its online application system for KCSE exam students. Students were asked to revise their choices for placement under the government-sponsored scheme. The Football Association Challenge Cup, commonly known as the FA Cup, was the third most searched item. It trended as the 2018 edition of annual knockout competition in men’s domestic English football entered its third and fourth round. Trending at number four was the widow of the late former Vice President Michael Wamalwa Kijana, Yvonne. She died on January 25 and will be buried on February 3 in Milimani, Trans Nzoia county. Veteran journalist Farida Karoney was the fifth following her nomination to the position of Lands Cabinet Secretary. Igathe’s resignation Prior to her appointment, she served as the Royal Media Services’ chief operating officer, and was a former KTN head of editorial. The search for Cabinet Secretaries was sixth as Kenyans sought to know the full list of nominees. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the almost-complete list of Cabinet nominees last week. The seventh trending topic was former Nairobi Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe. He resigned on January 12 and formally left on Wednesday. He said he had failed to earn the trust of Governor Mike Sonko. The Australian Open tennis tournament was eighth. Swiss Roger Federer won his sixth title at the tourney and 20th Gram Slam at 36. Closing out the list of the top 10 searches were gospel singer Kambua Manundu and late human rights activist Ken Wafula, at positions nine and 10, respectively. Kambua had been compelled by Kenyans online to apologise for grabbing the microphone from Inooro TV’s Jeff Kuria, her co-emcee at Royal Media Services’ Vuka Mwaka Party held at Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Wafula died at an Eldoret hospital on January 17. He was famous for work on ICC cases and promoting human rights nationwide.