Tenants of the disputed Mariakani Estate in South B live in fear of eviction after a notice issued to them by Lapfund to clear Sh490,000 in outstanding rents expired last week. The firm expected Sh10,000 rent per month from each tenant for a three-bedroom house. There are 240 apartments in the property. Lapfund said the rent arrears accrued from April 2013. This comes as MCAs probe how City Hall transferred the Sh2 billion property to the county government’s retirement benefits scheme. “This nonpayment is untenable and can’t be allowed to continue,” Lapfund had told the tenants in a letter. In its notice issued on February 8, Lapfund said that, despite taking over the ownership of the estate in April 2013, no rent has been forthcoming. The notice expired last Thursday. “We are waiting to see what will happen because we’ve been paying rent to City Hall and the county has never told us otherwise,” resident Mark Okuyo said yesterday. Through Gikera and Vadagama Advocates, Lapfund said the nonpayment was untenable and would not be allowed to continue. When reached for comment on what it would do next, Lapfund referred the Star to the law firm. The firm agreed to get back, saying the lawyer handling the matter was in court. They declined to provide the lawyer’s mobile phone number. They had not responded by press time. Appearing before the Public Accounts Committee on Monday, acting Finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi said some tenants are still paying rent to the county. He could not explain why the county was still receiving rent from the tenants, yet it transferred the property five years ago. Former Town Clerk Roba Duba was said to have signed a Sh1.4 billion debt swap deal with Lapfund on February 18, 2012, giving away the estate with 30 blocks of eight apartments each on 10 acres. City Hall owed Lapfund Sh2.1 billion and the pension scheme agreed to waive 50 per cent of the amount to acquire the estate. But the audit has shown that the county lost Sh500 million in the deal, as the estate was undervalued. It was valued at Sh1.45 billion, yet the audit showed it was worth Sh1.9 billion. Auditor General Edward Ouko poked holes into the transfer documents, saying there were missing signatures and several dates appended. He also questioned how the figure was arrived at. “We feel the transfer was irregular and the people mentioned as part of the meeting have denied being present,” an auditor seconded by the Auditor General’s office to City Hall said. Acting Lands chief officer Isaac Nyoike, who was the chief lands valuer at the time, was at pains to explain how the decision to use the estate in settling the debt and its value was reached. He said the decision was made during a council meeting by the now-defunct City Council in August 2012. A resolution was passed that the estate be used to settle the debt. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto asked why the estate was used in the deal, yet it was not originally part of the estates — Jeevanjee Bachelor’s Quarters, Old Ngara Estate, New Ngara Estate and playground, Kariokor and Buruburu Estate — that had been valued by the county for the swap. He said the estate was because as it was the only property, which had a ready title deed and the list was not exhaustive and not limited to the mentioned estates.