The Kenya Universities Staff Union has threatened to call for a nationwide strike over their 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement. The union officials said this will be if the Inter Public Universities Council Consultative Forum (IPUCCF) fail to give a counter proposal for the CBA. The KUSU national governing council expressed its displeasure with their employer for procrastinating and protracting the negotiations. The council, during a meeting in Nakuru on Saturday, said this has been extended to almost outside their agreed timeline. "We call on the government to move with speed to facilitate and fast-track completion of negotiations in order to meet budgetary," Secretary General Charles Mukhwaya said. He said it is regretted that most universities are unable to run smoothly since the government has reduced capitalisation funds. "For example, Nairobi and Egerton universities' capitalisation has been reduced by over Sh1.7 billion and over Sh700 million respectively," he said. Mukhwaya said three negotiation meetings have bore no fruits adding that they will not accept IPUCCF's non-commitment to the issues at stake. Although the negotiations were expected to be complete by February 28, the union raised fears that this might not be achieved. "The concerned party on the side of the government keeps postponing meetings with lame excuses of change of guard in the ministry of education." "We will ask our members to take to the streets if the government does not bring a counter proposal during our final meeting slated for February 23," he said. KUSU Organizing Secretary Ernest Wayaya said university staff, despite being learned, are a desperate lot owing to poor pay. He pointed out that university staff ought to be engaged in negotiations instead of circumstances forcing them to go to the streets to demand for pay rise. Wayaya asked the government to move with speed to facilitate the negotiations in good time to ensure they are not hit by the budgetary preparation deadlines. Click here for the latest political stories 