Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has warned operations in the counties could stall by the end of the month due to a delay in flow of funds. He said that the counties have not received cash from the Treasury for four months. “If this issue is not addressed before the end of the month, staff should expect delayed salary payments,” Oparanya said. He, however, said governors are encouraged by efforts by the national and county governments as well as development partners to close gaps that existed at the beginning of devolution.  Wdf scrapped Oparanya said delayed disbursements led to low absorption of cash by the county governments in the last five years. He said his government will establish a public fund to address issues previously handled by the Ward Development Fund. Oparanya scrapped the WDF and education bursaries last month. The county had set aside Sh600 million for projects and Sh120 million for education bursaries in the current budget. MCAs complained Oparanya is plotting to cripple them. But in his speech to the assembly on Tuesday, Oparanya urged ward reps to engage the executive instead of “escalating” issues to the media. Oparanya said the first phase of the Sh6 billion Kakamega Teaching and Referral Hospital will be commissioned this year.  Health tourism “It will offer top-notch medical training services as well as specialised curative and preventive health services for residents and visitors from Western region and beyond,” he said. Oparanya said the facility will be a health tourism hub for Western and across borders. He urged MCAs to prioritise the debate and passage of the Trade and Markets, Dairy Development Corporation, Micro Finance Corporation and Investment and Development Agency bills. Last week, Bungoma Governor Wcliffe Wangamati said the delay in the release of funds is hurting development. He appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to help speed up the process. Wangamati spoke at Mitua Girls’ High School in Tongaren constituency on Friday. Bungoma is the third-most populated county after Nairobi and Kakamega.