Long commercial leases coupled with a growing demand for independence and freedom at the workplace is increasingly leading to the growth of co-working spaces in the country. According to Work style co-working space general manager Grace Wairimu, the spaces are becoming ideal for businesses seeking flexible workspace solutions that don’t involve long six years leases or additional staff just to keep the place neat and tidy. “When you look at most commercial buildings in prime locations, they are designed and targeted at larger corporates, yet most businesses still have a staff count of under 10. Add to that the growth of start-up companies and the gig economy and it is clear that the commercial office market is a good candidate for disruption,” she said. Latest Knight-frank African report 2017 indicates an increasing number of global corporates looking to establish regional hubs in Nairobi to serve East Africa's 150 million plus population is another reason for a growing uptake of office spaces. “When a company comes into Kenya for the very first time they would have to sign a commercial lease for six years, they would need to have a business plan to commit to. Thats a very difficult thing to do because you do not know where your business is going to be,” Knight-frank managing director Ben Woodhams said during an interview in a local property show last week. He added that the risk to take too little or even too much space, because there would be know space for you to expand to when you need to do so or one may end up spending rent on space they do not use. This has also led to the growth of serviced offices. PRICING Compared to traditional offices which are most ideal for established firms as noted by Woodhams, co-working spaces charge from as low as Sh1000 per day to its users. The Knight-frank African report 2017 shows that traditional offices charge an average of $16 per square meter ( Sh1612.64 ) on a monthly basis. The report further shows that approximately 300,000 square metres of commercial office space was delivered to the Nairobi market in 2016, compared with an average of 150,000 square metres in recent years. This means that the rental levels and occupancy rates are negatively affected hence a rise of co-working spaces and serviced apartments.     