Unperturbed by the sweltering afternoon heat, street boys with glue rolling down their mouths are fast asleep in the streets of the Nakuru CBD. There are about 3,000 street urchins in the CBD. Once described as East Africa’s cleanest and fastest growing town in the late 1960s and 70s, Nakuru is now a shadow of its former self. Residents are concerned the street families could turn the CBD into a robbers’ den. Street children harass shoppers, demand cash and pickpocket. Investors take off Words like ‘gode, weedi, ganja, domu and gode’, all slang for bhang, are common among street families. They smoke it openly, without fear of being arrested. Nakuru Hawkers’ Association chairman Simon Nasieku yesterday said even children threaten residents and engage in petty crime. The families also urinate in the streets. “The street children have become a nuisance to locals. Investors and tourists are put off by the children begging for cash and food,” Nasieku said. Traders are concerned by their increasing numbers. “Visitors walking along any of the town’s main streets are welcomed by mothers sitting on pavements soliciting alms,” Nasieku said. The worst areas include the Pinkam and Gatehouse roundabouts, CK Patel and the footbridge. Residents avoid these areas in the evening because this is the time the children rough them up in alleys. Children as young as 10 wander the streets. Those below 10 station themselves at major stores to target shoppers. How to be a street boy Newcomers who fail to adhere to the street rules are punished and the ‘incorrigible’ ones driven out of town. Street families have been zoned roads into three categories, depending on members’ age and experience. Charles Chege, 19, an old guard, said street families have rules, regulations and guidelines. The younger boys have perfected the art of begging while older counterparts are regarded as the ‘elite group’. “The young ones are not allowed to stray into the territory of the older colleagues, unless they have an urgent message to deliver,” says Chege. Most of them direct traffic along the busy streets and demand cash. Street children have become a menace in Nyayo Gardens, the Railways, Municipal Council market, parts of the Industrial Area and Kenyatta Avenue. Trade and Tourism executive Peter Ketyenya said street children may scare away investors. “Shopkeepers and business owners often have to close their shops early or heavily secure their premises if they are to operate at night,” he said. Children’s department faulted At night, the street families move in groups and are often high on glue and bhang. Residents have faulted the county Children’s department for failing to address the problem. “We ask the county government to save its people from the menace. The only street children’s rehab centre - Okoa Mtoto - was demolished two years ago during the construction of the dual carriageway at the Njoro turnoff. Let them look for an alternative and save us the agony of insecurity,” Nasieku said. Last week, the assembly raised the alarm over the street family issue. The House said street children pose a security risk and scare away investors. Fleeing violence Menengai West MCA Simon Mwangi said the Labour committee should make a statement on the issue in 10 days. Deputy Governor Eric Korir said the issue is complex and many circumstances force children onto the streets. “It can be the result of abject poverty or fleeing violence in their local communities, or substance or other abuse at home – to name a few,” he said. Korir said the Social Services department has put in place measures to address the situation and restore security. “With the elaborate plan, we will be able to restore investors’ confidence and that of residents in a few weeks,” he said. Korir, however, did not disclose what the plans entail. Many counties have tried to remove street families from CBDs.