Nasa boss Raila Odinga has defended CEO Norman Magaya and strategist David Ndii following claims they are working with the ruling Jubilee Party. In a statement on Monday, he said the coalition has confidence in both Ndii and Magaya. "My attention has been drawn to reports in sections of the media, attributed to Miguna Miguna, claiming that two of Nasa Secretariat staff ... are working for Jubilee Party. "We wish to make it clear that as a coalition, we have full confidence in Ndii and Magaya, who have dedicated time and resources working for Nasa’s course." Raila said the allegations, "if at all they were made, are very unfortunate and detrimental to the course we are pursuing". He asked all supporters of the National Super Alliance to ignore Miguna's remarks and focus on the issues they need to address. Miguna, who declared himself the general of the National Resistance Movement, stamped documents for Raila's swearing-in as the People's President. He was arrested and deported to Canada as a result but he has remained charged despite his once shaky relationship with Raila. Related: Miguna is Luo king in waiting, will take over from Raila - Mutahi Ngunyi Miguna has been the face of the movement while Ndii has been leading the People's Assembly coordinating committee wing of Nasa. Both of these find convergence in their rejection of the election of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the recognition of Raila as the bona fide “People’s President”. The lawyer cum politician charged at Ndii and Magaya accusing them of overstepping their mandate or at least trying to usurp the leadership of the NRM. The movement has metamorphosed from an amorphous front charged with the boycott of products of companies alleged to have had a hand in bungling the August 8 presidential election to become the face of resistance to the Jubilee administration. Miguna accused Ndii of opposing Raila's swearing-in and threatening to lead a walkout from the coalition. He claimed Magaya is a mole in the Opposition and “silently cuts deals” with the Jubilee administration. More on this: Magaya, Ndii working with Jubilee to scuttle NASA, Miguna claims Also read: Miguna takes on Ndii and Magaya in Nasa wrangles Click here for the latest political stories    