A somber mood engulfed a village in Subukia, Nakuru County, as a police officer shot dead his 26-year-old wife and daughter, five, yesterday at 3am Subukia police boss Alex Ng’ang’a said constable Cosmas Biwott, 24, of the Anti Stock Theft Unit based at Suswa camp in Waseges, used a colleague’s firearm to kill Jane Njoki and the daughter, Shantel Nyambura, inside their house before fleeing. He fired more than 10 bullets. Family members, journalists and locals were not allowed into the heavily guarded camp, and were instead referred to Subukia OCPD. Her daughter had at one time separated with the officer and later returned. She said Njoki operated a bar at the nearby Suswa trading centre. “My daughter has been working in a bar at Suswa trading center for the last two years now. At one point, they had separated with the husband but later reunited. She was hard working girl, humble and God-fearing,” a tearful Njoki’s mother Wambui Nderitu said. She said the deaths were a big loss to the family. “How could he even shot dead an Innocent five year old? Just how? That is inhumane and ungoldly. Its a very painful incident as a mother for those who can understand the pain that I'm undergoing through at the moment,” lamented the mother. John Nderitu, brother to Njoki, said he woke up after hearing gun shots only to be told that it was his sister who had been killed. The ASTU camp has more than 20 officers, who were deployed in the area following rampant cattle theft cases. The officer, who has served less than two years, is said to have been constantly engaged in quarrels with his wife, with whom they have lived together for only seven months. Waseges MCA Kiriethe Ndigirigi, who was among the first people to arrive at the scene said, there was need to ensure firearms are kept in safe custody in the armory since allowing officers to have guns in their houses was risky. Wambui said police removed the two bodies before she arrived at the scene. The police boss said that police are still looking for the officer. The two bodies were moved to Nyahururu Referral Hospital morgue.     