The 2011 Most Valuable Player (MVP) Kevin Kimani was among among 11 new players unveiled yesterday by Sofapaka. The widely travelled Kimani and arguably one of the country’s best attacking midfielder, said he has been inspired to join the 2009 KPL champions due to their hunger to win the Kenya Premier League trophy this season. The ex-Mathare United and Tusker man, who was captured from Saudi Arabian side, Al Hazem, said the club’s sky high expectations to walk away with either of the two trophies this season was on top of his priorities before penning a contract with ‘Batoto na Mungu’. Kimanzi, who had a brief stint with AFC Leopards, praised the standards of fellow new signings and vowed to help the club achieve their dream of winning a trophy this season. Kimani said: “I had to consider the quality of the club before signing a contract with them. Sofapaka have a dream of winning at least a medal at the end of the season— something which every player wants to be part of. I am coming back with a lot of experience and I am aware it’s not going to be easy considering all the other players want to have playing time. The club has brought in new players and the quality is good too.” Ex-Nakumatt forward Kepha Aswani and Stephen Waruru formerly of Ulinzi, echoed similar sentiments. Aswani said: “I had approaches from many clubs but after considering the advice from my parents, I settled for Sofapaka. This is a club with a dream of winning a trophy and that motivated me to sign for them. I target at least ten goals in each leg.” Waruru said: “I considered the quality of the club and their urge to win trophies before signing.” Sofapaka head coach Sam Ssimbwa warned the new signings over complacency, saying the first eleven slots will be based on exemplary performance. “It’s good we have depth and now our dream of winning at least a silverware will be achievable. The team that finished number two is still with us and the new players have to fight to get to the starting eleven. Right now, I have Kasumba, Aswani and Waruru and all can not start in a game if they don’t work hard.” The new players unveiled are: Levis Opiyo captured from Mathare United, Ibrahim Kitawi (Kariobangi Sharks), Kevin Kimani (Hazem), Ellie Asieche (Sharks), Vitallis Akumu (Western Stima), Stephen Waruru (Ulinzi),Teddy Osok (KCB),Yusuf Mohammed (Muhoroni Youth), Omar Musa (Burundi) and the duo of Kigondi Peterson and Eshikumo Samson who were promoted from the clubs U-20 team.