Journalists and civil society activists have demanded an immediate restoration of all the TV stations that were shut for airing Raila Odinga's 'swearing in' on Tuesday. Political Journalists Association chairman Isaac Ongiri, Kenya Union of Journalists Eric Oduor, activist Henry Maina, and NMG editor-in-chief Tom Mshindi made the call. The lot, in a presser, said the media shutdown, which entered its third day on Thursday, is "serious economic sabotage to the media fraternity". The groups further castigated the government's threats to arrest journalists saying they amount to pure intimidation and therefore, uncalled for. Read: Linus Kaikai, TJ Kajwang in trouble as police pounce on Raila oath allies Mshindi said the move by the government clearly indicated the intention is to delegitimise and criminalise the media industry. Defining the shutdown as pure impunity, the Nation boss said there must be fair administration of justice. "How
do they expect citizens to obey the same law they are violating eight
years after promulgation of the new constitution? We are headed back to
the dark days," he said. "This has been the darkest moment for media but I urge all media players to stand firm and condemn the act." Maina also said that instead of resorting to shutting down the stations, the government should have considered legal routes. "The normal procedure is for affected stations were to be served with court orders on the shutdown. Failure to observe this is a violation," he said. Maina said they are already in the process of seeking court orders to reinstate the stations and seek legal action on specific individuals behind the shutdown. "We are not just here for a story but to protect our rights on media freedom. The attack is real and here with us," he said. "If we do not unite, fight together, and engage legally, we shall have a major problem that will see us all perish." Haughton Irungu, director of Amnesty International, noted the government cannot be purporting to advocate for democracy without freedom of the press. He said the four pillars in their agenda can only come to pass if the media is given space. "There are other major issues affecting our economy that the government should worry about, not shutting down stations," Irungu said. "The communications authority must restore its credibility and declare their stand on these matters." Oduor said KUJ will ensure all named journalists are protected against any threats and intimidation. Ongiri said the perpetrators of violations of media freedom are good students of dictatorial tendencies in South Sudan, Uganda, and lately Tanzania. "We are urging the international community not to keep quiet while fundamental freedoms are stumbled on by a ruthless elite beginning to re-emerge in our country." "This is a critical time where media owners, editorial leaders, all professional journalists and well-meaning political leaders must come together. "We warn against habits that may make us look like we are collaborating with our oppressors in so far as freedom of the press is concerned." Also read: NTV's Linus Kaikai, Larry Madowo camp in newsroom for fear of arrest Click here for the latest political news