Kibra MP Ken Okoth has taken a swipe at the American government saying it no longer cares about human rights and free democratic space. This followed US Ambassador to Kenya Robert Godec's call to Raila Odinga's NASA coalition to recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta's legitimacy. "It is a shame that the American government has chosen to be a partisan player in the Kenyan politics," the legislator said. Read: Ship has sailed, it’s time to move on, Godec tells NASA "Western envoys like Godec have become so partisan. They are more Jubilee than Jubilee itself," Okoth added. "But we want to remind him (US envoy) that he is not a prefect to tell us how we can run our politics." NASA told off the envoys saying their quest for electoral justice in unstoppable. Also read: Godec denies US bribed to support Jubilee, calls for leaders to dialogue Okoth spoke during the launch of new classrooms and studying centres at the Mbagathi High School on Friday. "As NASA MPs, we are moving forward and our resolve will not be distracted by those who think the coalition is on the verge of collapse." "It is the jubilee government that is mismanaging this country and we must hold them to account," he said. Okoth said though the NASA brigade do not recognise the legitimacy of the current regime, it does not mean that they can't criticise its governance styles. "They are an illegitimate government but they must not throw the spirit of Constitutionalism to the trees. They must strive to do the correct thing," Okoth said. The MP maintained that Jubilee government is only surviving on support from foreign envoys who are after personal interests. A group of NASA supporters on Friday staged protests outside the US Embassy in Gigiri calling on the removal of Godec. The handful youth accused Godec of meddling in Kenyan internal politics instead of playing the neutral role to calm the current political stalemate. Read: [VIDEO] NASA supporters stage protest at US embassy, demand Godec's removal Click here for the latest political news  