Rift Valley farmers have threatened to reduce maize production this year after the government delayed to pay them Sh3.2 Billion for deliveries to the NCPB. The Kenya Farmers Association Association says the delayed payments will affect preparations for this year's planting season which starts in three weeks time. "Majority of farmers are worried and without cash they have planned to reduce the area under maize production in their farms this year", said director of KFA Kipkorir Menjo. Menjo said the unreliable maize market and poor handling by the government was forcing most farmers to start considering other crops. Treasury has released only sh 1 Billion out the sh 4.2 Billion which the government owes farmers for maize delivered at the The farmers had last week stormed the board's depots in the North Rift demanding payment of all the money but only Sh1 billion was availed. Menjo says most of the farmers cannot pay fees for their children and prepare for this year's planting season due to lack of funds. “We appreciate what they have brought but it’s too little. Farmers should be paid all their dues as they had been promised by the government”, said Menjo after a meeting at the NCPB depot in Eldoret. MPs in the North Rift region led by Sila Tiren of Moiben and Joshua Kuttuny of Cherangany have also asked the government to release all the more needed to pay farmers. Kuttuny yesterday said efforts to have the Treasury release the money have not yielded results. Farmers have been ignored for three months, he said. Menjo however said the government had planned to go a supplementary budget to get extra cash to pay the farmers. The state had budgeted sh 7.1 Billion for maize purchase but it allowed farmers to deliver maize worth about Sh 10 Billion causing an overshot of the budget. “Farmers are delaying in preparations for this year’s planting season and if that continues, very few will go back to farming,” the Kuttuny said. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe has said the state will release the money as soon as its approved. “We will pay them as soon as possible because they have to start preparations for the next planting season,” he said on the phone.   