A vaccine made of stem cells taught the immune systems of mice to fight cancer, in a study that may pave the way to preventing the disease in humans. Stem
cells share similarities with cancer, so researchers used them to teach
the bodies of the mice to recognize and fight the disease. The
'vaccine,' developed by researchers at Stanford University, plus an
immunity-boosting agent shrunk tumors in the majority of the mice, and
two of them beat the cancer entirely. The
scientists say that their new method shows promise as a personalized
way to someday preventatively immunize humans against their own cancers. Cancer occurs when cells start multiplying
and growing out of control. Scientists discovered that, as healthy
cells undergo this change, they revert back to a state very similar to
their early development stages. Vaccines
work to prevent infections by introducing a similar but less harmful
germs to the body so that our immune systems get a sort of primer course
on what these illnesses look like and how to fight them. So
the Stanford researchers posited that the pre-cancer-like developmental
cells could work in much the same way, preparing immune cells to be on
high alert for cells that might be ready to turn to tumors. To
test their theory, they used easy-to-extract skin and blood cells from
mice to create induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells by giving them a
sort of genetic bath that rewound their developmental clocks. These
are sometimes called 'master' cells because, in the early stages of a
fetus's development, pluripotent cells are poised to morph into any kind
of tissue. Because they are so malleable, they can
also turn into a type of tumor called a teratoma - which is essentially a
set of random tissues that develops in places in the body where none of
those tissues belong. If iPS cells can
become a teratoma they can also become just about any other kind of
cell, so the researchers made sure the reverted mouse cells could do so,
then blasted them with radiation to make sure they wouldn't once they
were injected back into the animals. The
researchers tested their inoculation idea on four groups of mice: one
set got a placebo injection, another got just the specially prepared iPS
'vaccine' made from their own cells, one group got just an
immunity-booster (called an adjuvant and used to improve the
effectiveness of many vaccines) and group got a combination of the
vaccine and the booster. Once the mice
had been inoculated (or not, in the case of the control group), the
study authors transplanted breast cancer cells into them and waited to
see if the iPS cells had taught their bodies to put up a fight. When combined with the immunity-boosting
adjuvant, the iPS vaccination shrunk tumors in seven out of the 10 mince
that got that treatment. The treatment
was so effective that the immune systems of two mice performed perfect
search and destroy missions, fully 'rejecting' the tumors that had begun
to grow. "Once activated, the immune
system is on alert to target cancers as they develop throughout the
body," said lead study author Dr Nigel Kooreman. Those
two went on to live healthily for another year – a full life,
considering that mice typically only survive two to three years in labs. Shrinking
tumors and improved survival rates meant that introducing the iPS cells
taught cancer-killing T cells to find and kill the faulty, diseased
cells. "When we immunized an animal
with genetically matching iPS cells, the immune system could be primed
to reject the development of tumors in the future," said senior study
author and profess of cardiology and radiology, Dr Joseph Wu. "Pending
replication in humans, our findings indicate these cells may one day
serve as a true patient-specific cancer vaccine." Because
each mouse was injected with a vaccine made from its own,
genetically-identical cells, there was very little risk that the immune
system would attack the iPS cells before it had a chance to learn to
kill cancer. "Reprogramming the immune
system to stop the development of tumors may save countless numbers of
lives as well as spare many from grueling, debilitating treatment," said
Jane Murphy, a clinical nurse specialist at Breast Cancer Care in the
UK said. The anti-cancer shot could
also be rejection-proof and personalized, offering fewer risks and
better efficacy for possible future patients. "Although much research remains to be done, the concept itself is pretty simple," Dr Wu said. "We
would take your blood, make iPS cells and then inject the cells to
prevent future cancers. I'm very excited about the future
possibilities." Click here for the latest local political stories