Kenya Rugby Union director of fixtures Moses Ndale has thrown his hat into the ring to challenge incumbent Thomas Opiyo for the vice chairman’s position during the KRU polls slated for March 21. Ndale is not eligible to seek re-election as a director since he has already served the maximum two terms in that position, opting to vie for the second highest post as the race to succeed chairman Richard Omwela in 2019 gathers pace. Former secretary, Jack Okoth wants to reclaim his post where he will battle incumbent Oduor Gangla while former Quins player Joel Karubiu in interested in one of the director roles. Treasurer Joshua Aroni looks likely to retain his seat while John Kilonzo is up for re-election as a director. In a press statement from the Kenya Rugby Union which read “Agenda items include the confirmation of the minutes of the last AGM held on March 22, 2017, receipt and consideration of the Board’s report for the previous year as well as receipt and consideration for adoption of the Balance Sheet and Statement of Accounts for the past year. Additionally, the AGM shall elect the vice chairman, secretary, treasurer as well as two directors of the board and also appoint auditors for the forthcoming year,” KRU said in a statement “Pursuant to Clause 8 of the KRU Constitution, each member or associate member shall pay such annual subscriptions, affiliation or competition fees as may be fixed by the Annual General Meeting from time to time. No member shall be entitled to vote at the Annual General Meeting if their affiliation fees for the current year remain outstanding.” “Purant to Clause 13 of the KRU Constitution – General Meeting of the Union shall consist of delegates appointed by the Members, Associate Members, officers of the Union and other Board Members” “Notice of the appointment of delegates signed by the Secretary of a Member or Associate, must be received by the Secretary of the Union not less than THREE Days before the date of the Meeting at which the delegate is to act,” said KRU. Candidates are required to possess a certificate of good conduct, clearance from the Credit Reference Bureau and basic world rugby certificate including but not limited to World Rugby Level one coaching or referee or club administration, laws of the game and rugby ready certification. Pursuant to clause 10.5 of the KRU constitution, nominations in writing by members of the Union, for the election of an officer or board member must reach the Union not later than Seven days prior to the date of the meeting. From 2019, elected officials will be going for a four-year term.