Cottar’s
1920s Camp is all about recreating the old-style safari experience. The camp
was started in the mid-nineties, but the Cottar family has operated a safari
business since 1919. Back then, safari visitors to Kenya were indulged with all
the amenities necessary for a comfortable bush experience. This
luxurious safari camp sits in a private conservancy just outside Maasai Mara
Game Reserve. In the double living room area under a wide canvas tent, you are
surrounded by Persian rugs, wooden travel chests, pith hats, zebra hides and animal
trophy heads. I
stayed in one of the 10 spacious tents, which are well-spaced from each other
for additional privacy. Four tents are set up as family suites and there is
also stunning five-bedroom private villa. The
bedroom tents have more antique furnishings, and a private butler sees to your
every need. It was hard leaving the comfort of the four-poster bed with hot
water bottles. A unique experience is taking a bubble bath in the late
afternoon in an out-door, old-fashioned canvas bathtub facing the vast wilderness. Cottar’s
Camp staff were very attentive without being invasive. We had breakfast in the
garden one day, serenaded by birdsong. A la carte dinner was served by
candlelight on tables with crisp white linens. Private meals can be arranged in
the tents. The waiters were dressed in long, white shirts with a red waistcoat
and fez hat. The manager joined us and told amusing stories of wilderness life. The
Maasai driver-guides wear traditional attire. On our first game drive, we
spotted a young leopard up a tree and, not far away, a group of lionesses. Because
of the camp’s remote location, we met few other tourist cars, which made for
exclusive game viewing. We
enjoyed a guided walk in the wild to the nearby river. In the warm afternoon, the swimming pool was a welcome repose, where there are canopied lounge chairs to
keep out the sun. The in-house masseuse gave a wonderful massage. One time, they
used their vintage vehicle to take us for cocktails and appetisers in the bush at
sunset.  LOCATION: Narok County ACCESS: Flight from Wilson Airport to the
Cottar’s private airstrip or 90-minute drive from Keekorok Airstrip