We tend to focus on the President, Parliament, Judiciary and state enterprises. Yet the Constitution makes a clear distinction between politicians and the public servants who run the branches of the state. The Constitution establishes ‘values and principles of public service’ (Article 232 ). These include high standards of professional ethics; involvement of the people in policy making; responsive, prompt, effective, impartial and equitable provision of services, accountability for administrative acts; transparency, and provision of timely, accurate information; representation of Kenya’s diverse communities (including women and persons with disability), subject to which the criteria for appointment are “fair competition and merit”. Public servants are also bound by the values in Article 10. The responsibility for ensuring that these values and principles are maintained falls to the Public Service Commission, one of a handful of independent commissions, though members are appointed by the President with the consent of the National Assembly (provided they pass various tests of impartiality). Among its responsibilities are establishing offices in the public service, appointing the people to those offices and disciplinary control over and removal of public servants. Principal Secretaries are not ‘public servants’ for this purpose, although they wield significant powers and are subject to presidential instructions . Although there are strict rules governing the conduct of public servants, they are protected against victimisation or discrimination for performing their duties in accordance with the Constitution and cannot be dismissed without a fair procedure (Article 236 ). The rules about how public servants are appointed, should behave and may be dismissed are essential for our democracy and for accountability of government and the public service. They prevent the monopolisation of state power in the hands of the Presidents and Cabinet Secretaries. They should ensure there is no discrimination against citizens belonging to ethnic groups different from the President. The impartiality of the public service also serves to enhance the separation of powers. How far these objectives are achieved is not clear.  EVALUATION REPORT ON PUBLIC SERVICE In December last year the Public Service Commission published their fourth annual report designed to answer the question: how far are public bodies respecting the various values so important to fulfilling the promise of the Constitution. The report is based on responses from the replies of 164 bodies to a PSC survey: Ministries and government departments, independent offices and commissions (like the human rights commissions or the PSC itself), state corporations (like KenGen), and statutory commissions (eg the Energy Regulatory Commission), but not the judiciary or security forces And some issues were cross-checked with oversight bodies like the EACC and the Ombudsman. The overall best performing institution was the Capital Markets Authority, and the Cabinet Affairs Office, the Office of the Deputy President, and the Media Council were among the worst five. Readers will be most interested, we assume, in what government agencies are actually doing to realise the values of the Constitution.  ‘SENSITISING’ AND ENFORCEMENT If the number of documents and the resources devoted to training were anything to go by, we should have a very ethical public service — even nation. There is an Act of Parliament on Values and Principles of the Public Service and various codes of conduct. The PSC even reports working with the Institute of Curriculum Development on primary and pre-primary education. The study found that ministries allocated much less funding than other agencies for “sensitization” on values and principles — delivered by bodies such as the Kenya School of Government and the EACC. But they are concerned and puzzled that so much money should have produced so little effect: Overall only 12 per cent had had this experience — only 2 per cent in ministries. Where did the money go? Turning to enforcement. The PSC reports that 255 of officers were charged with corruption offences, and only 12 per cent of those convicted. They express some disappointment with the slow pace of the law. It is not easy to square this information with the Judiciary’s report published at the end of last year. This says that the conviction rate for those charged with corruption and economic crimes has been 72.4 per cent.  FAIRNESS AND DIVERSITY The public service should reflect the nation in all its diversity. There can never been a precise match between national make-up and an individual body. But the PSC Diversity Policy aims at ensuring an inclusive public service that takes care of “the interests of diverse Kenyan communities including gender, ethnicity, youth, persons with disabilities, minority and marginalized groups”. The PSC found that 20 per cent of the bodies had not made the first step of carrying out an audit of their staff to know how diverse they are. Eighty-one per cent of those had identified what the PSC calls “diversity gaps”. The Constitution requires positive steps to be taken to increase equality and fairness when dealing with the public too. For example, 30 per cent of money used for procuring goods and services is supposed to be spent using the services provided by women, youth and persons with disability. The PSC found that 59 per cent of institutions did not meet that requirement, and overall, only 24 per cent of the procurement spending went to these sectors.  DISABILITY Only six of the 164 institutions have achieved the objective of having five per cent persons with disability on their staff. Remarkably, all of these are state corporations: No ministry, commission or statutory corporation. In fact, overall, in the public service, only one per cent are persons with disability. How hard do they try? The PSC looked at the facilities organisations provide for persons with disability, including the public. Software for those with visual imprisonment, ramps for wheelchairs, adapted toilets, and reserved parking were among the assistance they found. But the overall achievement is not impressive. The PSC attributed this in part to the lack of good data on persons with disability, making it hard to develop strategies. Persons with disability fared least well in the opportunities opened up to them through procurement policies. Only nine per cent of the money supposed to be spent on procuring goods and services from disadvantaged groups went to them.  GENDER We all know that no more than two-thirds of employees (or elected members) of public bodies should be of the same gender. Overall, in the institutions studied, 30 per cent of staff are women (just under one third). In fact, in Independent Offices and Commissions 41 per cent are female, and in Statutory Commissions 48 per cent. Even in bodies with a good gender ratio, the general pattern is that the higher up the hierarchy one looks, the smaller proportion of women one finds.  ETHNICITY Forty-six communities are represented in the public service. The PSC describes the representation of most as “normal”, meaning not too different from the community’s presence in the nation as a whole. Only the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin are over-represented, while the Luhya and the Somali are under-represented. Some communities have only a handful of people in the public service: The El Molo have eight and one or two groups only two members. So no government institution could have people from every community among its staff, though the Department of the Interior comes closest with 39 communities — no doubt its size helps, as it includes what is now called the “National Administration” (we used to call it “Provincial Administration”).  A FEW OTHER POINTS The report comments that there is little commitment to developing laws and implementing the Bill of Rights. One of the more discouraging findings is that public institutions do not prioritise research to inform decision and policy making to improve service delivery. Are public bodies fumbling in the dark as they make policies to improve their services? It is commendable that efforts are being made, and that the PSC is monitoring those efforts. But perhaps we need more research, more information, more thought and more commitment, at all levels, before our Constitution of values is fully fulfilled.               