Lawyer Miguna Miguna has reported that an "assassination squad" is looking for him at his Runda home in Nairobi. Miguna, who vied for Nairobi governor in August 2017, was one of those who helped administer NASA leader Raila Odinga's oath on January 30. Text messages believed to be from him state: "They have arrested me. They have bombed my house and broken everything. They are still here. "They are searching all rooms. It’s an assassination squad. I can’t speak. They are still here ... looking for me." Miguna, who declared himself leader of the outlawed National Resistance Movement said youths are needed in large numbers. "My house is number 486 Runda Meadows. It’s urgent and dire," he added in the messages seen by The Star on Friday. After the Uhuru Park event, the lawyer congratulated Raila via Twitter describing the controversial oath-taking as successful. He said 'Uhuru must go' and that "all our members are ordered to remain focused, disciplined and courageous [as victory is certain]". Miguna also "graciously accepted" the mandate that he noted was bestowed on them by Kenyans. The government announced investigations against all the people who took part in NASA's swearing-in. Others who participated are lawyers TJ Kajwang (Ruaraka MP) and James Orengo (Siaya senator). Kajwang’ spent the better part of Thursday in different cells as his lawyers literally engaged police in a cat-and-mouse chase ahead of his imminent arraignment. The vocal lawyer, who was arrested on Wednesday evening in the ongoing police crackdown on individuals linked to Raila's oath, was mysteriously sneaked out of the Milimani basement cells, as his lawyers put up a spirited fight to have him produced in court. He was taken to the Kilimani police station, where he was held briefly, then driven to the Pangani police station and later presented before the Ngong resident magistrate More on this: Kajwang’ moved from cells in cat and mouse game with lawyers Meanwhile, the United States is displeased with the self-inauguration and has advised a national conversation on the way forward for Kenya. But Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) revealed on Thursday that NASA's delayed oath-taking was strategic and reiterated that they remain united. They say nothing will derail their quest for electoral justice in the country. Read: Trump 'gravely concerned' by Raila swearing-in, media attacks Also read: How Wanjigi pushed Raila to be sworn-in Click here for the latest political stories