Governors from tea growing areas yesterday termed the move to tax tea at the Mombasa auction unconstitutional and an extra burden. Mombasa county issued a circular on January 12 reintroducing Sh32 per packet of tea cess, introduced for the first time in 2014 but was suspended. This was about about Sh12,000 per lorry. Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony said tea farmers are already suffering from rising cost of production, uncertainties of climate change and disharmonised collection of cess. “The introduction of tea cess in the Mombasa tea auction centre at the rate of Sh32 per pack is unlawful,” he said. Chepkwony said the monthly payment will dwindle and the tea bonuses will also diminish. “Cess can only be from the point of production. If you do not produce the goods, you have no right to tax them,” he said, adding that if all counties were to tax all the goods on transit, it would be a big burden to Kenyans. He addressed journalists at a press brief on the taxation at the Mombasa tea auction. Chepkwony urged the county government not to implement the directive because, “We do not want to resort to taking the matter to court. Even if the county wants to raise its revenue collection, it should not be at the expense of other people,” Chepkwony said. Governors from tea-growing counties will be engaging with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to see that the burden is not borne by farmers. Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso said, “We believe this cess should not be levied at the port. This move will lead to double taxation across counties to the detriment of the tea value chain. As governors form tea-growing regions, we would like to affirm our commitment to the farmers.” She said the fight to revive the tea industry is mainly geared towards ensuring maximum returns to the farmers for subsequent development of the value chain. Last week, during the release of the 2017 Tea Performance Report, Edward Mudibo, the East Africa Tea Trade Association managing director, said the matter had been resolved. “We had a discussion with the Trade executive and they agreed that as long as we give the list of the lorries transporting tea they will not be charged,” Mudibo said. “You cannot charge goods in transit. Most of the our tea is destined for export and therefore on transit.” Click here for the latest political news