The
deportation of Miguna Miguna has brought to the fore the need to
reflect on the citizenship regime introduced by the 2010 Constitution, and the enabling regulatory framework embodied in the Kenya Citizenship and
Immigration Act (2011). Without
transgressing into the contested questions before the courts, this article
aims to sheds light on the broader theoretical questions of citizenship and nationality
in this country. Citizenship
is the legal bond that links an individual to his or her
state. Legal citizenship grants status to the bearer, including the right of
reentry. It is often a prized possession as signified by the quest by immigrants
from Africa and other less-developed contexts for America’s diversity visa, the
gateway to citizenship, and presumably the American dream.  So central is the right to citizenship that
the US Supreme Court in Luria v US
(1913) defined citizenship as the “right to have rights”. Two
broad principles underpin citizenship regulations across different
jurisdictions — birth and ancestry. Some states such as the US have adopted the
role of place of birth (jus soli) as
the basis for conferring citizenship. This rule recognises the immateriality of
a parent’s citizenship for purposes of determining that of a child. It proceeds
to grant to the child automatic citizenship based on where they are born. No
wonder President Barack Obama’s place of birth, Hawaii — which only became the
50th state of the Union in 1959, a few years before Obama’s birth — became
controversial when some conservative politicians questioned his eligibility for
the US presidency (which recognises only natural- born citizens as eligible to
contest the presidency). In
contrast, other jurisdictions, including Kenya, take as their fundamental
citizenship requirement the proposition that a parent’s citizenship is the
basis for conferring citizenship to the child (jus sanguinis). By giving primacy to the parent’s descent, this
rule means that whenever a parent’s citizenship is uncertain, this transfers to
the child, a highly disadvantageous situation. Kenya’s
Independence Constitution contained complex and antiquated provisions as it
struggled to transition colonial subjects into citizens, while, at the same
time, safeguarding “British protected persons” who chose to remain resident in
Kenya. This complexity, coupled with the level of state capacity at the time,
created an opportunity for arbitrariness in the grant of citizenship, such that
instead of it being an individual right, it became collectivised. Belonging
to ethnic communities deemed Kenyan became proxy for individual citizenship
eligibility and determination, as well as access to citizenship instruments,
notably, identity cards and passports. In this scheme of affairs, some
communities were considered less indigene to Kenya and its members became
subject to discriminatory access to citizenship instruments. Such was the fate
of the Nubians, the Somali, the Galjeel and the recently recognised Makonde,
among others. The 2010
Constitution was meant to cure these ills and set a foundation for a more just
and secure regime based on equality. It proposes to do this in at least three
ways. First, it granted citizenship to children of Kenyan citizens wherever
born. This provision effectively deepens the jus sanguinis basis for citizenship while de-emphasising reliance
on the jus soli rule. To protect minors
found in Kenyan territory, whose parents’ nationality is unknown, the Constitution
presumes such minors to be entitled to Kenyan citizenship by birth. Second,
those forced to renounce Kenyan citizenship in order to acquire another during
the period when dual nationality was not permissible under our law, are allowed
to re-assert Kenyan citizenship but only “on application”. Similarly needing to apply for Kenyan
citizenship under the 2010 Constitution are non-national spouses of Kenyan
citizens, but their right matures after seven years of marriage. Thirdly,
unlike in the previous constitutional dispensation, dual citizenship is
recognised as a right If the
facts as stated in various reports hold true, Miguna’s case clearly falls in
the category of those who renounced their citizenship before the 2010 constitutional
order kicked in, and, therefore, requiring to make an application in terms of
legislation, namely, the Citizenship and Immigration Act. Only upon application
as provided for in law does a reasserted citizenship crystalise. The
institutional arrangements for processing such an application — the Kenya
Citizens and Foreign Nationals Management Service Board, the Minister for
Interior and Director for Immigration — all play a role in the examination of
the application. Indeed, Section 10 of the Citizenship and Immigration Act sets
down the procedure for regaining citizenship, and involves an application to
the Minister. Miguna’s
deportation may be unfortunate but enough chinks exist in the procedural amour
of the law to facilitate it, especially if no application to reassert his claim
to Kenyan citizenship had been made. I am not certain if the existence of a
Kenyan passport with his name on it is necessarily dispositive of his claim,
especially if his Canadian citizenship had accrued before the 2010 Constitution.
In fact, possession of a Kenyan passport and another country’s during the
period predating 2010 would be anomalous on the face of it.  Sing’Oei is an advocate and a legal adviser,
Executive office of the Deputy President. This article expresses personal views
of the author   