Jubilee Party is a united front. Nobody should think otherwise. We speak in one voice from Watamu to Isiolo all the way to Mandera, Baringo, Bungoma and Nairobi. We have made it clear that Deputy President William Ruto is the heir apparent after President Uhuru Kenyatta completes his second and final term in 2022. The President has been clear about this and, as the Jubilee family, we concur. Those saying the contrary have their own views as to why they hold that opinion, but we shall reach out to them. We shall talk to them and explain why we believe in Ruto in 2022. We believe we shall convince them along the way. We in Jubilee shall not scatter anyone as every person, despite divergence of opinion, means a lot in our business for political leadership in this country. We are well aware that 2022 is years away. That is why, as Jubilee, we are first focussed on fulfilling the many promises we made to Kenyans; the roads we promised we would do, the hospitals, universal healthcare and the creation of jobs in the next five years. That is why, instead of talking about crafting teams for 2022, we are talking about President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda, which revolves around Vision 2030. In the next five years, this is what we want to deliver to Kenyans, irrespective of their tribe, religion or gender. Once we lower down the cost of living and make life affordable to all, then we shall embark on asking Kenyans for a further 10 years for Jubilee. The DP, just like the President, will visit every corner of this country to launch development projects in line with the government’s Big Four as outlined by President Kenyatta during his inauguration. As Parliament, we shall do our part to provide the necessary legal framework and budgetary allocation to support the Executive’s plans. The DP hasn’t changed at all: This is the real Ruto; convincing, soft-spoken but tough when rattled. The DP is amiable, focussed and shrewd. He knows how to make friends and that is what he is doing all over the country, so that we can buttress our party and have more of a following. Currently the DP is focused on development in every part of this country. The writer is the National Assembly Majority Whip and Mumias East MP  Click here for the latest political news