A suspected arson fire has destroyed 180 birth certificates, school leaving certificates and KCPE exam certificates at Gatitu Primary School at Kiharo in Ol Joro Orok. The administration block was reduced to ashes on Monday night. “Whoever did this is malicious. The person was out to destroy the school,” head teacher Johnson Munene told the Star on the phone on Tuesday. Others said the fire broke out in at least two places. Senior teacher Grace Kamau on Tuesday told journalists everything was fine when they left the school on Monday evening. At 9:30pm they were informed the administration block was on fire. They and residents rushed thre but could not  salvage anything. “I don’t know what parents will do. My child is also in Class Eight. The candidates had brought their birth certificates to register for the KCPE examination. They can neither register for the exam nor be admitted to Form One without the birth certificates,” Kamau said. cordial relationship Pupils lost textbooks and the national flag was burnt. The title deed for the school’s land also was burned.SMunene said it was difficult to estimate the losses. “The administraiton block was the heart of the school. Everything was there. It was worth many thousands if not millions of shillings,” he said. Munene said the exact cause of was not known. He said he has a cordial relationship with his staff and the community. Munene said the arsonist or arsonists had planned well. “I had just arrived home after leaving the school late, and had not had supper when I was called and told the bad news. The wooden building housed the headmaster’s office, deputy headmaster’s office and the staff room. Kamau said there was no electricity so electrical fault was ruled out. She said the watchman tried to put out the blaze, but another fire erupted elsewhere in the building. PTA chairman Kabiru Gitau and pupils who spoke to the Star appealed for help. “As parents, we are very worried,” Gitau said Munene said it was the school’s second fire.