New York Times correspondent Jeffrey Gettleman won the 2012 Pulitzer Prize for international reporting because of his “vivid reports, often at personal peril, on famine and conflict in East Africa”. A former East Africa bureau chief for The New York Times based in Nairobi for 11 years, Gettleman wrote Love, Africa: A Memoir of Romance, War and Survival. It explores his two greatest passions: Africa and his wife, Courtney. Gettleman met Courtney when he was 19 and studying at Cornell University, in 1990. The same year, he came to Kenya on a road trip organised by photojournalist Dan Eldon. This visit sparked his desire to live in East Africa, and he spent the next decade trying to achieve the two disparate goals. Gettleman’s career happened in a roundabout way. After dismissing a suggestion by a lecturer to study journalism, saying, “Who wants to work for a boring newspaper?” he took Kiswahili classes, went backpacking around the world for a year, and earned a Master’s degree in philosophy from Oxford University. Conflict and death have characterised his writing career. As a young newspaper writer in a small town in the state of Florida, US, Gettleman took on an assignment to investigate suspected kidnapping and grisly killing of a young American girl by a serial child molester. The book goes on to cover Gettleman’s experiences in Afghanistan, Congo, Ethiopia, Somalia and Kenya, mostly in war situations. Sometimes Love, Africa reads like a snapshot of American foreign policy in Africa and the Middle East in the last 20 years. I found his behind-the-scenes look into war zones quite compelling. He describes trekking with rebels in remote regions, stepping on flesh after bombings incidents, meeting with sexually molested youth, conversing with Afghani warlords snacking on raisins, and surviving near-death kidnappings. On Africa, he is critical about the usual ails of election fraud, corruption and ethnicity. Yet he tries to avoid the stereotypical Africa reporting while representing facts objectively. At the same time, he disparages America’s insular outlook, saying, “War is God’s way of teaching Americans geography.” In early years, Gettleman was clearly the imprudent young foreigner in Africa, daring to climb Mt Kilimanjaro without permit or proper gear, and being violently robbed in Nairobi’s Uhuru Gardens, despite earlier warnings. Yet he acknowledges the privileged status he achieved as an expatriate, complete with five-bedroom company home, driver and domestic staff. Because of his itinerant life, Gettleman carried an on-off relationship with Courtney, and he speaks frankly about his relationship with other women during their long-distance courtship. Eventually they married, she moved to Kenya, picked up photography and became his videographer. Gettleman’s writing style is conversational and peppered with expletives, which sometimes jars with the seriousness of the stories he is telling. Regardless, he has a knack for drawing you into his rollercoaster life. Acclaimed Sierra Leonean author Ishmael Beah describes Love, Africa as ‘beautifully rendered honesty’.  Star Rating: 4/5