Many parts of the country suffered a six-hour blackout early last month due to a technical fault in the central fields of Dandora-Nairobi North, Energy CS Charles Keter has explained. Providing the first explanation of the January 9 blackout, Keter told a parliamentary committee summons hearing on Wednesday that tie lines between Uganda and Kenya at Tororo power station in Uganda experienced a power surge. This came from the Uganda power company to the Kenya grid, collapsing the system in western. “A string insulator shattered, cutting off the conductor with other systems and causing disturbances leading to loss of power supply to our customers. We apologise for the inconvenience,” Keter said. He said excessive voltage at Rabai-Suswa 220KV substation in Kenya due to the disturbance led to disruption of the Coast power supply system. Better coordination is urgently needed at the central geothermal fields where several lines converge, Keter said. To cushion the country from outages in the Suswa-Nairobi North-Dandora 220KV substation, Kenya Power has already replaced circuit breaker 105 at Naivasha 132/33KV substation and a differential relay at Dandora 220KV, the CS said.for He said Ketraco is expected to complete the Suswa-Athi River–Embakasi 220KV substation in the next two months to provide an alternative power flow path from Olkaria to Nairobi. It is expected to complete the Ol Karia-Lessos 220KV substation within three years while it will team up with Kenya Power to jointly will complete the Ol Karia-Narok-Bomet 132KV substation. Affected areas includes the coast, Mount Kenya, central and North-Rift, western, Athi River, Kajiado, Kiambu, Karen and Dagoretti, all powered by Ol Karia geothermal station. Power remained on in Nairobi North and Athi River because they are on different lines powered by a 220/66KV substation. The massive blackout occurred a year after another countrywide outage in January 2017 when Nairobi, Mount Kenya and the Coast lost power.Kenya Power is working on a second 105 220/132 kv transformer at Ol-Karia expected to be complete in six months.