Prolonged drought has significantly reduced tea production in Embu, factories want farmers to stop daily plucking to cut cost. Kenya Tea Development Authority directors say green tea leaves being harvested daily for Mungania, Rukuriri and Kathangariri factories have dropped by almost a half. Rukuriri director Joshua Kanake told the Star on the phone yesterday farmers who supply the factory have dropped their production from about 100,000kg per day to about 50,000kg per day. He said farmers who supply Rukuriri and Mungania factories produce almost the same amount of green tea per day, but Kathangariri produces less. Kanake said the harsh climatic conditions, caused by massive deforestation over the years, has reduced the amount of rainfall. Reduction of daily harvest of tea leaves is making factories incur overhead costs as they are operating below par using the usual power, he said. Kanake said if the rain does not fall soon, the factories might be forced to stop processing tea daily. Plucking might be spread out to reduce costs. “We used to rely on the rain, but it has become erratic. Urgent measures must be taken by the national and county government to solve the problem or we will have a big problem in the tea sector in future,” he said. Kanake lamented over the high costs of production of tea. He said casual workers, who pluck tea for famers, pocket most the money the farmers are paid monthly. He said farmers are paid Sh15 per kilo for the green tea they deliver every day, while workers who pluck the crop have been demanding Sh10 per kilogramme of tea they pick per day. “It’s like all the farmers’ monthly payment goes to workers’ wages.Farmers mostly rely on the bonuses, which is much higher at Sh50 and above per kilo to keep them going,” said Kanake. He said despite the harsh climatic changes, tea remains the best agri-business. Kanake said the whole county got a turnover of over Sh3billion for its farmers after its sale last season. Click here for the latest political news