A Malindi high Court today dismissed a petition challenging election of Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip and upheld his victory. Delivering the Judgment High Court Judge Lady Justice Asenath Ongeri sitting in Malindi ruled that Loitiptip of Jubilee party was the validly elected senator in the August 8 elections. She directed each party to bear their own costs in the petition. In her judgment Lady Justice said the petitioner Hassan Albeity of Wiper Party didn’t comply with the court on timelines adding that the respondent did not have time to respond the issues rose. Albeity had moved to court seeking orders to declare the third respondent (Loitiptip) as not validly elected as senator and declare him as the valid elected senator. Further the petitioner had also sought orders from the court to declare fresh elections. Other prayers he sought were for the court to order scrutiny and recounts of votes in all polling stations in Lamu to ascertain the correct number of votes cast. Albeity had also in his affidavit claimed the IEBC Returning officers had rejected his agents which was a breach of the election rules. “The senatorial elections on August 8 2017 were fair and held as per the law,’’he said, Justice Ongeri said there were no irregularities which could have affected the outcome of the elections adding that Loitiptip was validly elected. On the issue of agents the Judge said the petitioner ought to have raised the issue earlier before the elections. She said IEBC, The returning officer, and the Senator were not privy to the wrangles between Albeity and his political party. The judge further said on the orders sought for scrutiny the petitioner didn’t call any witnesses and never challenged any results. “I find the petitioner has not added any evidence, it’s just a fishing expedition, and can’t be granted, he did not specify specific irregularities, malpractices,’’ she said On the issue of margin of results for senator elections which were 58 votes lady justice Ongeri said the petitioner didn’t raise the same issues for determination. Immediately after the petition was dismissed the Senator told journalists he was happy that the court has upheld his victory as per the will of Lamu County people. “I am happy, the petition was biased, had no concept and was full of irregularities,’’ he said. He thanked Lamu people for standing with him during the petition and promised to deliver his mandate as Senator. Loitiptip pointed out that he would work to ensure the key issues of security, transparency, and Land issues are addressed. Read:[VIDEO] Court upholds Anwar Loitiptip's Lamu senator victory Click here for the latest political news 