Eleven Western diplomatic missions based in Nairobi last week were unhappy with Kenyan opposition leaders, in particular ODM/NASA leader Raila Odinga, for refusing to recognise Uhuru Kenyatta as the President and William Ruto as the Deputy President. In a no-nonsense joint statement and article in the dailies, the diplomats called Raila “a father of multiparty democracy” who had “made unsubstantiated claims about elections and unilaterally sworn himself in as ‘President’, in deliberate disregard of the Constitution for which he so proudly fought.” The statement further called on the Opposition to desist from “stoking or threatening violence”, which would risk Raila’s legacy. The diplomats also placed Raila’s recognition of Uhuru as the caveat to any dialogue. It was to date the toughest statement Western diplomats have made against the opposition or government since the clamour for multiparty politics in the 1980s and 1990s, which the Western embassies had supported at the time. The statement, however, was less vocal about the Jubilee government’s recent political behaviour, which includes total disregard of court orders by senior government officials and the use of excessive force by police to disperse Opposition rallies and demonstrations. It was a statement meant to placate the JP leadership and to dress down the actions of the Opposition leaders. Whatever the criticisms, the Opposition has focussed on one particular issue both Jubilee and the diplomats have hesitated to address — the IEBC reforms and the future of Kenyan elections. NASA leaders are annoyed because the diplomats have invested heavily in improving the functions of the electoral agency, yet they have refused to join with the Opposition in protests against the perceived impartiality of the IEBC in the management of free, fair and transparent elections. The Opposition stand has been that without a restructured or reformed election commission, Kenyan elections shall continue to be stolen in the future. Therefore, they boycotted the Presidential repeat election on October 26 in part because the IEBC was not going to be the impartial referee it is supposed to be. Despite millions of Kenyan voters supporting the Opposition and refusing to vote, the Western diplomats in Nairobi refused to appreciate this. In stead, they have blamed the Opposition for the boycott and the resultant violence and disruptions. But the envoys’ accusations against the Opposition are exaggerated, if not partisan. For example, it was not the opposition leaders or their supporters who stoked or threatened violence when they wanted to go to Uhuru Park to be addressed by Raila upon his return from overseas. It was the police who disrupted the event, yet the diplomats never protested, as if they don’t have the Bill of Rights in the Constitutions of their respective countries. Similarly, these diplomats remained silent or issued timid protests against senior government officials who have disobeyed court orders with impunity or shutdown media houses. They also never said a thing when infuriated JP leaders publicly cslled Supreme Court judges “Wakora” (goons/thugs) following the annulment of the August 8 election. This selective messaging by the diplomats is worrying, considering some of them, especially the Ambassadors and High Commissioners from the US, Germany and the Scandinavian countries, have been vocal in the past in support of democracy, good governance and the rule of law. These diplomats should continue to deal with errant regimes and the Opposition with impartiality if they want to continue enjoying trust from the vast majority of Kenyans. Further, in the past — during the 1980s and 1990s — Western diplomats rarely issued joint press statements from Nairobi. Each country had a specific message regarding Kenyan politics and they said it as such. The US Embassy, for example, often issued stand-alone press releases and used public diplomacy to showcase its global power and influence in Kenya. This had tremendous impact on democratisation, governance and the rule of law. The British Embassy did it its own way. It hardly issued press releases, either singular or in concert with the other diplomats: Rather they protested or supported the Moi regime through a government-to-government approach rather than public diplomacy. Therefore, joint statements are hypocritical: They do not necessarily reflect the true positions of the countries represented and they have minimal impact. No matter the protests by the diplomats against the Opposition leaders, what Kenyans want is a restructured IEBC, without which, they should not expect to live and vote in free, fair and transparent elections. They want the diplomats to support them because the envoys do provide financial and other resources to the IEBC to manage elections without undue external influence. The donors could do this by forcing the desired change at the IEBC or deny it funds if push comes to shove — exactly as they did to the Daniel Moi regime in 1991. Orderly Kenyan elections mean a lot to the West as well. Stolen elections lead to frustration and chaos that leads to the outflowing of refugees to the US and Europe. It is already a major problem in some of these countries. America, which is expected to lead the diplomatic corps in Nairobi as the only superpower, is undergoing some kind of crisis in its official policy approach to Africa, including Kenya. President Donald Trump is talking about “America First” and “Making America Great Again.” These concepts in part mean some issues affecting Kenya must be resolved by Kenyans themselves through dialogue, irrespective of political differences. The electoral reforms are among these issues. The sooner this issue is addressed, the better for Kenya — with or without diplomatic support. Gone are the days when influential US Secretaries of State such as Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Colin Powell, Madeleine Albright, or Condoleezza Rice, among others, made the US policy pulse felt in Kenya and elsewhere. The State Department is not the priority for President Trump. US Foreign policy is now made at the White House, via Twitter. This may perhaps explain, in part, why Ambassador Robert Godec, a man who in the 1990s served in Kenya as Economic Officer long before he assumed his new position, prefers to issue joint statements alongside the other Missions in Nairobi. Nevertheless, given the US superpower status, and Britain as the former colonial power, these two countries and the rest of our development partners, such as Germany, the EU and the Nordic countries, have roles to play in support of advancing Kenya’s democratic gains. The absence of their support may result in democracy reversals that may affect our latent peace. One of these threats is the failure to address the electoral reform process to ensure elections are not stolen in future.