SOME high-flying lawyers from
Kisii are scheming how to make sure Solicitor General nominee Ken Ogeto sails through vetting.
Corridors are aware that influential lawyers from the region met at a high-end
club in Karen on Saturday, where they discussed at length the hurdles Ogeto
could face and mooted a counter-strategy. During the meeting, the lawyers are
said to have agreed to reach out to the political class, especially politicians
from Kisii, as part of the wider scheme to push Ogeto through Parliament.
Ogeto's nomination has been challenged in court by 'Litigant General' Okiya Omtatah. ***** An
Opposition governor who faces a petition has panicked. The county chief has
moved from his home and decided to stay at a five-star hotel in a busy town
within the county as he awaits the ruling. The governor has not been at his
rural home or his official county residence for months. It is understood that
the governor, who is also suffering from some lifestyle diseases, has been
under close watch by his doctors. His blood pressure has been a big issue
during the hearing sessions, and he had to be hospitalised a few times as the
case was going on. With diabetes taking a toll on him, too, the governor has
taken a low profile. ***** A woman MP is under siege
from her family after she deserted her marital home and decided to put up in Eastlands,
Nairobi. The MP, who campaigned together with her husband, has reportedly not
been picking up calls from her hubby for about a month, raising speculation
that dhow could have landed on ‘greener pastures’. Recently, the hubby camped
outside Parliament seeking to speak to her in vain as the MP dodged her way out
using a colleague’s car. To further confuse the hubby, the MP is said to have
bought a saloon car for her “heralds”. ***** A scandal is in the offing
at a parastatal in the Housing department after an IT manager reportedly
colluded with another senior officer to allocate their ‘Mpango wa Kando’ houses
at one of the housing projects in Pangani. Details of the syndicate emerged
last week, after the corporation’s CEO received complaint letters from a couple
that was shortchanged before the house was allocated to the university students
last year. Isn’t this a clear case of conflict of interest?  Well. The
EACC is said to be seized of the matter and could soon swing into action to
bring the culprits to book. In the meantime, the officers are threatening their
accusers with dire consequences.  Click here for the latest political news