Former President Daniel arap Moi’s daughter has challenged KRA’s decision to charge her property in Nairobi over unpaid Sh5 million in tax. In a petition filed at the Milimani courts yesterday, Jennifer Kositanny denied owing KRA any money in taxes as alleged. She asked the court to suspend the decision to charge her property that is worth Sh4 million. She wants the court to protect her property rights by quashing KRA’s decision to direct the Chief Registrar of Lands to register a notification of charge of her property dated June 15, 1998. Kositanny wants the court to compel KRA to execute a discharge of charge or notice in writing to cancel its direction to charge of property. She wants the KRA and Registrar of Lands barred from interfering with her ownership or possession of her property on account of the charged dated 1998. Kositanny says she had no outstanding tax liability to KRA at the time of the charge. no notice issued “Even in the event there was any tax liability due and owing by my husband, the same could not have been realised by charging the property as it was neither the deceased person’s property nor did it form part of his estate,” Kositanny argues. She says no notice was issued to her to pay any tax due and owed by her, nor did they issue any notice of the intention to charge her property, as required by law. Kositanny says KRA issued a directive to the Chief Registrar of Lands to encumber property without issuing any notice to her, denying her the opportunity to object to the decision to register a charge over the property. “Without an opportunity to respond, KRA and Chief Registrar of Land decisions were unilateral, biased and unfair,” the petition reads. Kositanny says the tax agency failed to serve her with a notice or opportunity to respond to any tax assessment raised evidence that said she owed Sh5 million. She accuses KRA of acting in an unprocedural, biased, illegal, unfair and a clear violation of the principles of natural justice which must guide all administrative actions. Kositanny says she is the registered proprietor of the said property since 1981, together with her husband. Later the land was devolved to her after the demise of her spouse in 1994. KRA has at the date of filing suit not responded to the letter or taken any action to correct their acts which caused Kositanny loss and damage. She says she is unable to exercise her legal and proprietary rights over the property as guaranteed under Article 49 of the Constitution. “The refusal and failure by the KRA to respond to my demand that the charge be cancelled dated January 15 is a violation of the law and the Fair Administrative Actions Act, 2015 which guarantees fair administrative action,” the petition reads.