The long rains will begin end of March and will be minimal, especially in eastern region, the meteorological department has said. However, most of Western Kenya, Central, Rift Valley and parts of Central Kenya, including Nairobi, can expect adequate rains. Head of meteorological department Peter Ambenje said the traditional rainfall start dates have changed. Most parts of Kenya will receive the rains beginning fourth week of March. Traditionally, farmers used to plant beginning March 15. “We are having unpredictable weather. Farmers should take official weather forecasts more seriously rather than relying on traditional knowledge,” he said. Ambenje presented the three-month forecast in Nairobi at a meeting attended by regional meteorological officers. He said Northeastern will be last to receive rains, from the first to second week of April. The configuration in the Indian Ocean is currently not favourable for good seasonal rainfall, especially over Eastern. The Eastern region comprises most of Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Isiolo and eastern parts of Marsabit county. Senior assistant director Ayub shaka said they now give the seasonal forecast at least one month before the rainfall starts, to help in planning. Enough food The forecast shows counties in the food basket areas are likely to receive near-normal rainfall, which might be enhanced. This means although the rest of the country will have less than average rainfall, there is likely to be enough food. These regions include all counties in the old Western Kenya and Nyanza provinces, Northern Rift Valley (Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Kericho, Baringo, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana, West Pokot), and central and Southern Rift Valley (Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Bomet, Kajiado). These counties will also be first to receive rains, in the third week of March, and it will continue until June. Some counties in central Kenya (Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga), Nairobi County and some parts of Marsabit, Machakos and Makueni will also receive near-normal rainfall which might be enhanced. Eastern region, Northeastern Kenya and Samburu county are likely to receive generally depressed rainfall. Some counties in Southeastern Kenya, including Kitui and the Coast, are likely to receive depressed rainfall. “The rainfall peak season will be April,” Ambenje said. The rains will start to end in third to fourth week of May in most parts of the country.