Harambee stars captain Victor Wanyama has emerged as one of the players Manchester United coach Jose Mourinho is considering as replacements for the retiring Michael Carrick and Manuel Fellaini who is leaving the club for Besiktas. Wanyama, the Daily Mail suggests is one of five players Mourinho and his coaching staff have zeroed in on as they seek to find a player to man the midfield alongside Nemanja Matic and another to provide competition for the likes of out of sorts Paul Pogba and Juan Mata. Wanyama has found it tough to break back into the Tottenham Hotspurs first eleven since returning from injury. It is this situation that the Daily Mail suggests might have alerted United to think that he could be available for around £40m. But Spurs coach Mauricio Pochettino is a keen admirer of the Kenyan international skipper and would loathe to lose him to an English rival. United, however, are not the only one looking at Wanyama with a covetous eye. No less than Steven Gerrard, Liverpool’s now retired talismanic midfielder suggested that Wanyama would be an apt fit at the Anfield club to provide defensive cover to the clubs gung ho attack. Wanyama, however, is not the only player United are eyeing. Ivory Coast international midfielder Jean Marie Seri has been on the club’s radar after his consistently top notch displays with French Ligue One side, Nice. Serbian international Sergey Matic of Lazio has also been touted as a replacement for the outgoing duo of Carrick and Fellaini. The fact that Savic has partnered Matic for Serbia and will have the chance to further audition for his future role at the World Cup in Russia makes him a frontrunner to fill the imminent void in United’s midfield. Italian international Jorginho has also been mentioned by the Mail as a person of interest at Old Trafford. The Brazilian born midfielder has been integral to Napoli’s Serie ‘A’ title push and will be granted his wish to seek new challenges should Napoli win their first scudetto since 1987. German World Cup winning midfielder Tony Kroos and Chelsea’s versatile Brazilian Willian also have huge admirers in the United hierarchy. It’s Wanyama though who will be a frontrunner with his experience in the EPL with Southampton and Spurs meaning he would fit in straight away at the Theatre of Dreams. The Kenyan skipper will be in the country later this month as Stars prepare for friendly matches against Comoros and Gambia which the Football Kenya Federation revealed will be played in Morocco.  