On February 14,
Valentine's Day, Morgan Richard Tsvangirai, the president of the
Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) in Zimbabwe, breathed his last
breath in a South African hospital after battling colon cancer for
close to five years. His departure has left a gap difficult to fill in
the leadership in the struggle for the Second Liberation in Zimbabwe. He
was a lion of a politician. An avowed democrat. A consummate people's
leader. An indefatigable defender of the rights of the common person.
Although it is difficult for any of the remaining leaders to fill his
big shoes, the job must be done in honour of the people of Zimbabwe so
as to complete the work he did with such exceptional dedication.     On a rainy afternoon of Tuesday February 20,
a galaxy of leaders from all walks of life, including the Kenyan
People's President Raila Amolo Odinga and I, joined thousands of
members of the MDC to lay this lion to rest in the little village of
Humanikwa in Buhera in the eastern region of Zimbabwe. As he was lowered
to join departed members of his family in the simple family cemetery,
it was not lost on all those in attendance that this was indeed a man
full of love for the people he served, no doubt at the cost of his own
personal and family comfort. As Nelson Chamisa, the MDC-T (T standing
for the MDC faction led by Tsvangirai) said in eulogising him, "Morgan
died on Valentine's Day, befitting his deep love for the people of
Zimbabwe, his commitment for the total liberation of his people from
both political and economic backwardness imposed by a negligent
authoritarian regime on the people of Zimbabwe for over two decades."      These
words must not be uttered in vain by those left behind by Morgan to
continue with the Second Liberation. They must mean something to the
people of Zimbabwe. They must shape the character of the leadership in
words and deeds, sacrificing personal aggrandisement for the common good. Looking beyond the immediate self-gratification of
office holding to unleashing a real process of democratic change and
social transformation, the leaders in the various factions of the MDC
must now respond first and foremost to the popular yearning for real
change in Zimbabwe. As the discredited Mugabe regime is consigned to the
dustbin of the underdevelopment of Africa by bigoted leaders obsessed
with the politics of wealth accumulation and hero worship, those
progressive elements within ZANU-PF need to come out to contribute to
the new democratic reconstruction of Zimbabwe. In this regard, a popular
National Democratic Front (NDF) of all progressive forces is the best
final respect that these leaders can give to Morgan Richard Tsvangirai
well ahead of the elections in July this year.      But building an
NDF will not be a spontaneous thing; it will need conscious planning and
strategising, looking at the contradictions in the the process with
dispassionate appreciation of facts regarding human relations and
frailties. In this regard, our brothers and sisters from Zimbabwe can
learn something from us in Kenya given our experience with multi-party
politics since 1992. In that year several opposition parties went to the
elections against the incumbent KANU regime led by President Daniel
arap Moi. We lost to KANU and Moi continued to be president in a
multi-party era notwithstanding the fact that he had received only 37 per cent of the popular vote.     in 1997 we again went to the general and
presidential elections as a multiplicity of opposition parties. Once
again we lost to KANU and this time Moi  received 34 per cent of the popular
vote. We thereby learnt an important lesson. Given the nature of our
Constitution and election rules, a simple majority could easily earn one
the presidency at all elections. We therefore started a dialogue to
bring all the opposition political parties committed to democracy and
social change together into a broad national democratic front in time
for the 2002 elections. To cut a long story short, in 2002 we managed to
tie this knot of political marriage hardly two months before the December 2002
elections within the framework of the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC). This national democratic front overwhelmingly won both the presidential
and parliamentary elections, thereby forming a government which
unleashed a process of political, social and economic reforms that
positively changed the Kenyan political economy. What happened since
then is another story. But NARC managed to get rid of the KANU
authoritarian regime so that progressive social and political forces
could find more room in shaping the future of this nation.     When
Raila Amolo Odinga appealed to the opposition in Zimbabwe to come
together so as to win the upcoming July elections, he had in mind NARC's
experience. He also had in mind NASA's experience during the elections
last year. There is now no doubt that NASA won the presidential
elections but, through computer and electronic manipulation — something
which baffled even the Democrats in the US not too long ago — the Jubilee
regime converted the results to their gain. In simple English, that is
called stealing. Having a massive opposition united front immensely
supported by the people reduces the chances of blatantly stealing the
votes through the computer. But while doing that, there must also be an
active surveillance of the voting process so that any manipulation can
be discovered in time and exposed.     Given the history of ZANU-PF as
a liberation movement that captured state power, the post-independence experience has seen an alarming intolerance by the regime
of progressive criticism of its anti-people policies. Many democrats
within the party might have decided to keep quiet purely for self
survival. Those who were vocal in their criticisms had three choices:
join the opposition, remain within ZANU-PF and seek reforms from within
or go into exile and oppose the regime from outside. All these
progressive democratic forces must now come together in a broad united
democratic front and go to the elections as one force.     Stumbling
blocks and some road blocks will, of course, be experienced on the road
to unity. Some of these are: ego-tripping and grandstanding by leaders;
the danger of overplaying the ethnic card for political posturing and
bargaining; and infiltration and sabotaging by the incumbent regime. Also to
remember is the need not to be slaves to past experiences. In politics
it is quite acceptable that comrades may disagree from time to time and
even break up into diverse political formations. But once there is a
major principle on which all are agreed, then it is important to play
down all minor contradictions and capitalise on the ties that bind
progressive forces in bringing about positive social and political
change. Principles, not personal preferences, must guide the major
decisions that have to be made to create the new Zimbabwe.