Kenyans until Monday were in partial news and information darkness following the shutdown of the four national independent TV stations that defied a government order to blackout Raila Odinga’s “mock” swearing-in event as the “People’s President”. This was an unprecedented move, courtesy of an enraged Jubilee government The managers of NTV, owned by the Nation Media Group, KTN News, owned by the Standard Media Group and Citizen TV, owned by Royal Media Services, rejected the government order and described it as an intrusion of free press by the Executive. The shutdown forced Kenyans to watch the only two TV channels that had not succumbed to the ban order — KBC, owned and controlled by the government and K24 owned by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s family. The government seemingly feared the outcome of the Raila’s swearing-in. It would perhaps have resulted in chaos and the destruction of property. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i told the press after the shutdown that allowing the media to cover the Raila event live could have triggered anarchy and despondency. In short, the stations were closed for “security” reasons. However, the closure had minimal impact on Kenyans. In an internet-connected, globalised world, Kenyans watched or listened to the event live from international news outlets and on livestream. The shutdown only served to alienate the Jubilee government from the people and it reversed the free media gains Kenyans had fought so hard for since the Kanu single-party era of the 1980s, when political dissent and critical reporting of government amounted to attempts at overthrowing the system. The basic inalienable freedoms to peaceful assembly, free expression and free press are enshrined in the 2010 Constitution. Under the Bill of Rights, “Freedom and independence of electronic, print and all other types of media is guaranteed.” The limits the Constitution imposes on free media relate to war propaganda, incitement to violence and hate speech. Both private and state-owned media are expected to operate “freely, independently, and impartially” and their content shall be “independent of control of government, political interests, or commercial interests.” By witching off the said media channels without any prior explanation or notice to the people of Kenya, the Jubilee government not only denied Kenyans their inalienable rights to information, but also pushed this country back to the infamous one-party Kanu dictatorship that saw journalists harassed, jailed, oppressed, and their equipment confiscated, or vandalised. History is replete with regimes that have unsuccessfully tried to muzzle the media. The Kanu regime is the perfect example for us. Kenyans had to resort to other sources for news and information about the country. Unlike then, there is no shortage of news sources these days. Writer Thomas Friedman has said the world is flat. It is a global village. The Jubilee government should, therefore, learn to deal with the media and tolerate it. The use of force to subdue them won’t succeed. Thomas Jefferson, one of the architects of the US Constitution, stated on January 16, 1789 that he would prefer newspapers without government to government without newspapers. This truth rings true today, especially in the emerging democracies such as Kenya. In Jefferson’s view, “the only security of all is in a free press.” In the US, for example, some lawmakers would rather trust what the independent media, such as The Washington Post and The New York Times report, rather than what the government would say. However, it was the same Jefferson, when he became President, who discovered how free media could be that itchy. He urged the states to conduct a “few prosecutions” to curb the opposition Press of licentious abuse. Notable is Jefferson’s preference to “prosecute” errant media rather than shutting them down as the Jubilee government did. The itchy Government-Press relations are currently being felt in the US, where President Donald Trump and his administration are having a run-in with the independent media. Trump is furious with some media outlets, among them the CNN, CBS, NBC, The New York Times and The Washington Post, for what they report about him and his administration. He has called it “fake news.” But beyond the war of words, Trump or his administration should not be expected to abuse the freedom of the media. He has to respond to what they say and write, and to respect the symbiotic Government-Press relations, as they are. The alternative is to go to court. All democracies, big and small, must assume that the media is there to stay. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes declared that the First Amendment in the US Constitution that barred Congress from enacting any law “abridging the freedom of the press” did not grant the right to publish free of the need to request government permission: It simply guarantees the right to publish free of the need to request government permission; what happens after publication is something else. Holmes’ position was echoed by Justice Potter Stewart by stating in 1974 that the primary purpose of the First Amendment was to create a “fourth institution” outside the government as additional checks on the three official branches. Today, the world over, the Press is referred to as the “Fourth Estate”, or the fourth arm of government. Our Constitution has adequate provisions to safeguard media freedom, even if it does not expressly bar Parliament from enacting any law “abridging the freedom of the press.” With the government shutdown, we are faced with the question of whether our media should acquiesce to prior government consent to cover issues that are perceived inimical or subversive to the state such as Raila’s oathing. The Kenyan media has faced many roadblocks and threats as it attempts to play its rightful role as the “watchdog” of the people. Reporting corruption and crime has been our media’s “undoing”, and has faced the wrath of government, institutions, officials and individual citizens. Writer Jane Kirtley is right to say that it is not easy to live with a free press. It means being challenged, dismayed, disrupted, and outraged every day. This is how democracies should work with free media; Kenya should not be an exception.     