Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula should carry their shame, Makadara MP George Aladwa has said, adding Luhyas have left them behind. Aladwa said the NASA principals should not hide behind the community after skipping their counterpart Raila Odinga's 'swearing-in' as the people's president. "Wetang'ula and Mudavadi should come out clean and explain why the skipped the event," he said during the coalition's rally in Baba Dogo, Nairobi, on Sunday. Aladwa said the Ford Kenya and ANC chiefs cannot purport to say their lives are in danger as all the people who attended the event put their lives at risk. “Musitusulubishe sisi waluhya kwa dhambi za Mudavadi na Wetang'ula. Sisi tuko ndani ya Nasa na tunasupport Baba (Do not crucify Luhyas for the sins of Mudavadi and Wetang'ula. We are supporters of Nasa and Raila)," he said. "Mimi nilikuwa Uhuru Park. Seneta Cleophas Malala alikuweko na pia George Khaniri na Ediwn Sifuna walikuwepo. Kwa hivyo Mudavadi na Wetang'ula wabebe misalaba yao (I was at Uhuru Park with Malala, Khaniri and Sifuna. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula should carry their own crosses). Aladwa noted there is no shortcut in supporting the veteran opposition leader and that this is a fact the coalition's supporters must accept. The politician added that long gone are the days when Nasa leaders acted out of fear. “We want the two to either walk with the mud on their faces or tell Raila to wash them, but the Luhya nation is moving forward without them,” he said. Cotu secretary general Francis Atowli earlier tore into Mudavadi, saying he could no longer support a "coward" who abandoned Raila at his hour of need. More on this: [VIDEO] Atwoli dumps 'cowardly' Mudavadi who 'abandoned' Raila Aladwa also chided police for raiding his Buruburu home and arresting him on Friday night. He said it is worrying that police officers are carrying explosives to bomb the houses of opposition MPs just to implement arrests. “They came and wanted to bomb my house yet my children and my wife were sleeping. What type of police are these? They do not serve summons," he said. “I have served this nation as an MP and mayor. I am a respectable leader ... [Interior CS Fred] Matiang'i should respect all elected leaders. Instead of sending police to harass and intimidate us, let them use the right procedures. We shall cooperate." Read: George Aladwa released after recording statement on Raila oath Related: Kibera protesters demand Miguna's release after order defied Click here for the latest political news 