The absence of NASA legislators in the grilling of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet nominees gave them an easy ride and buried tough questions that have dogged their pasts. The alliance declined to send its members to the Committee on Appointments – a vetting panel chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi and his brigade have insisted they do not recognise Uhuru’s presidency and cannot vet his nominees. Initially, there were signals that civil society, through the Kenya Human Rights Commission, could spoil the coronation of some of the candidates. However, the Muturi team rejected an application by KHRC executive director George Kegoro to appear before it. It was expected that Foreign Affairs and International Trade CS nominee Monica Juma’s vetting could be stormy. Also Read:Jubilee only affair as MPs vet Uhuru's Cabinet In June 2015, agitated MPs rejected Juma’s nomination to the powerful office of Secretary to the Cabinet and accused her of being arrogant and insensitive. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority also accused Juma of being “difficult to work with and rude to the authority”. “She is a poor leader and we support Parliament’s move to reject her nomination,” Ipoa chairman Macharia Njeru said, claiming Juma refused to meet him for discussion of administrative issues. She was the Interior ministry PS. In 2015, Auditor General Edward Ouko raised queries on the award of the comprehensive group life insurance cover for the National Police and Prisons Services to one of the highest bidders at Sh1.74 billion — almost three times the lowest bid of Sh629 million. Some Mount Kenya politicians, led by Kandara MP Alice Wahome, alleged that a firm linked to Juma’s husband, Professor Peter Kagwanja, had an interest in the contract. Kagwanja dismissed the claims. Yesterday, most of the controversial issues did not feature. The nominees to be vetted today include Simon Chelugui (Water). Chelugui, a contractor in the water sector, lost the Baringo Senate race to Kanu’s Gideon Moi. He ran on the JP ticket. He is likely to be confronted with claims of conflict of interest, as Penelly Construction Engineering, a firm associated with Chelugui, has been awarded large tenders by the Water ministry and allied parastatals. Also Read:Committee receives affidavit, six letters with issues on CS nominees Click here for the latest political news