The case of Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi is very interesting, just like that of his counterpart in the Wiper party Kalonzo Musyoka. First of all, I am yet to authoritatively get to the truth; what we are hearing is perhaps mostly from the media. But based on his political future, what I can authoritatively say is that his failure to attend the oath-taking, which came two days after his attendance of the NASA People’s Assembly rally in Homa Bay County, has cost him politically. His attendance and assurance to the NASA supporters fraternity that he would attend, and two days later did not make it to Uhuru Park, leaves so many questions unanswered. One, as far as the NASA support base is concerned, they are really disappointed and I think he will really have to do a lot more to regain that support. Unless he does something miraculously right and does so right now, his image among his own very people – talking to his men in the Western region – I think is very dim. Because he is yet to tell the NASA support base what really transpired on January 30, to me I think that leaves him in a political catastrophe. Again, Kenyan politics is fluid and can change with something you do that relates to the populace, that can make him regain the confidence. However, this will depend on some issues. He is yet to unequivocally tell the NASA support group exactly what transpired on that Tuesday. Actually what has been going on is people just extrapolate what must have happened and therefore it is up to him to really come out to explain it himself. He needs to tell the NASA support base something that will endear him to the support base that he used to enjoy before skipping the oath. I cannot really speculate about whether it was a strategy that only Raila Odinga attend the swearing-in at Uhuru Park. I don’t want to be speaking on their behalf. Raila indeed attended. Musalia, Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula did not attend; The reason why I am yet to lay my hands on. At first, through a joint statement, they steered clear of the ceremony, only saying they were united under NASA, this then changed to the narrative that they were under house arrest. The writer is a political analyst and lecturer Maseno University