Lamu East MP Athman Shariff has asked the government to give monetary compensation to all fishermen displaced by the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor project. Speaking in Lamu on Monday, he said Lapsset will disrupt fishing so the government should offer the fishermen a fallback plan. Already, farmers have been pushed back to the high seas and away from safer fishing waters by ongoing dredging. Fishing is one of Lamu's top income earner for the majority of residents. The fishermen lack proper equipment to fish in the high seas and many are likely to be driven out of work they have been doing for decades. Athman said there is need for the government to meet Lamu leaders and fishermen and agree on the best compensation package. He said once the port operationalises, it will be impossible for residents to fish in safer water as they are used to since such channels will now be used as harbours for large ships. “It will be impossible for the fisher fork to survive the high seas with the simple fishing machinery currently relied upon by majority of the fisherfolk in the county," Athman said. "The government has not been forthcoming about any plans to cushion the fishers of Lamu from the economic and social fallout that will result from this development and as leaders we are concerned.” Lamu fishermen's plea for monetary compensation have previously been dismissed. Lapsset director general Sylvester Kasuku has said the fishermen would only receive comparable compensation. This means that they would receive skills and equipment to fish in the deep seas. Kasuku said every affected fisherman will receive a powerful boat engine for free but not money. “We are in talks with the national government, the county government and Lapsset so we can agree on degree of compensation, which will be comparable not monetary,” he said. But Athman said Kasuku has no right to decide on his own what he feels is good for the fishermen without first talking with them and reaching an agreement. The fishermen have said they will not accept nothing less than cash.  