Nasa members James Orengo and Jimi Wanjigi finally have their passports and can travel to Zimbabwe for Morgan Tsivangirai’s burial. The Siaya Senator and businessman were to leave on Monday night but were barred, just hours after the High Court suspended the government's decision to revoke the passports of seven Nasa leaders. More on this: Orengo, Wanjigi barred from travelling to Zimbabwe for Tsvangirai burial Also read: Court blocks government from revoking Nasa leaders' passports Orengo and Wanjigi will now leave the JKIA at 1.45pm on Tuesday. In an address at the airport, Orengo claimed Immigration Director Gordon Kihalangwa had the court orders that suspended the ban on their passports. "While giving the passports back this morning, Kihalangwa knew he had the information and was in possession of the orders," he told reporters, flanked by Wanjigi and their lawyers. In a statement earlier, Kihalangwa said the two were blocked from travelling to Harare as the department learned of the court order through media reports. "The orders had not been served by the time the duo wanted to travel. After arriving at the JKIA, they were requested to avail the copies of the said court order but they had none," he said. More on this: Orengo, Wanjigi had no court orders revoking passports ban - Kihalangwa Also read: Raila heads to Zimbabwe for Morgan Tsvangirai's funeral "WILL WE RETURN TO KENYA?" Orengo, who is also a lawyer, said he was uncertain they will be allowed back into Kenya. "If we leave, are we going to be able come back? And if we come back, will we be able to live here? In Kenya, you never know ... they may say you belong to another country." The lawyer reported that they were humiliated and frustrated after they were blocked from travelling to Zimbabwe. "We have not only been inconvenienced and humiliated but we have also oppressed. Somebody will have to answer for it. The matter will not end here," he said. "We had a standoff from last night, trying to seek an explanation. It was only this morning that there was a change of heart." LEGAL ACTION The two said they will seek legal redress as they are not criminals and have not been charged in court. "No one has told us we are guilty. I feel really offended ... if the Executive can deal with me this way, then the dignity of Parliament is emasculated," Orengo said. "We are not criminals. I am a state officer. If you can deal with me this way it means the authority of Parliament is emasculated." Wanjigi said Kenya is witnessing a "Constitution delinquency" that must be done away with. "It is a very sad day ... I have never experienced this before. Hopefully, we should be able to go through ... we are strong and focused and are going to continue with this journey." The government has been making moves to tame the National Resistance Movement since Nasa leader Raila Odinga had himself sworn-in as the People's President. Lawyer Miguna Miguna was deported to Canada for taking part in the ceremony yet he has dual citizenship. He said he will be back and that the resistance will carry on. Details: Miguna deportation illegal, surrender his passports, Kimaru orders Read more: Matiang’i: I followed the law in deporting Miguna from Kenya Click here for the latest political news