Monica Juma says she would be lucky to step into "big shoes" at the Foreign Affairs ministry should she succeed Amina Mohamed as its minister. Juma faced a vetting panel at parliament on Thursday following her nomination by president Uhuru Kenyatta. She previously served in that ministry as principal secretary. "I am lucky because Amina has been my senior colleague. I don't see a loss but a challenge. I am willing to continue seeking her counsel," she said. "I am also lucky to lead a team of colleagues I have worked with.  In a way, I am quite lucky to continue in my ministry. My team is in place ... I am lucky that way." Regional agenda Exuding rare confidence, Juma said she wants to be a "vision carrier" in the ministry. She told the panel that her first task as cabinet secretary will be to train at least seven former ministers the president appointed as ambassadors. "I am confident [and ready] to champion the team that will deal with our international relations for the next years and beyond." The former PS noted the importance of the ministry's alignment with Kenya's development agenda, especially that concern border communities "Our influence in the region has not diminished. We have to engage with Tanzania and Uganda more because they are our closet neighbours," she said. She added: "Our region is characterised by fragility. We have stood as an anchor state in Africa. The perception that we are folding back is not true." Juma will also push for better relations with Ethiopia. Regarding the ministry's initiatives, she noted they have helped more than 700 distressed Kenyans despite tight budgets. Among them are four men who had been jailed in South Sudan for two years on theft charges. Anthony Keya, Boniface Muriuki, Ravi Ghaghda and Anthony Mwadime returned to Kenya in December last year. They were granted a presidential pardon after weeks of talks between the Kenyan and South Sudanese governments. [VIDEO] Kenyans jailed in South Sudan got presidential pardon - Monica Juma Juma said: "We are looking at nations like Philippines and Indonesia to borrow best practices for protection of our people in other countries even when they are not skilled." Legacy of competence The nominee does not want to serve as both CS and PS - she wants to focus on the role of minister. "My role as a CS will help the ministry scan the globe constantly, take opportunities and minimise the risks that come with those opportunities. With very good deputies, I am well-laced for the job." Asked about being a role model, Juma said she will ensure she is remembered as a competent professional. "I want to be remembered as a competent person who stays the course. My working experience [is based on the belief that one] cannot stop learning. The ministry keeps throwing new scenarios that you must deal with." Earlier, Public Service CS nominee Margaret Kobia pledged honesty and integrity should her appointment be approved by parliament. Kobia said the National Youth Service needscompetent staff with integrity if Kenya is to win the fight against corruption. "The NYS budget is huge ... we need very competent people with integrity to run it so as to end corruption," she said during her vetting. Read: Cabinet vetting: NYS needs clean up, competent staff to end graft - Kobia Click here for the latest political news