Mwingi youths have threatened to set ablaze lorries that ferry charcoal, saying they are encouraging illegal charcoal burning. Speaking at Nuu Primary Schoool on Sunday, the angry youths said illegal charcoal burning must be stopped because it was threatening the environment. They said trees felled for charcoal burning were not replaced. Nuu market boda boda chairman Aneto Muthui said people had invaded firms in the area to cut down trees for charcoal burning. The charcoal harvesters are mostly members of a neighbouring community. “They come and buy a whole farm to cut down all the trees. It is not acceptable because the trees cut are not replaced,” Muthui said. Muthui also complained that locals were not involved in the processes with the charcoal harvesters coming with labourers. ”Our youths are only left to load the sacks for which they are paid a meagre Sh200. Do you think anyone would allow us to invade their region and cut down trees and deny their people the labour like they do to us? Muthui said. Muthui said the charcoal harvesters had converted a county playground into a collection point. “We want that playground back or we will take the charcoal to our homes and burn the lorries,” Muthui said. The youths said the lorries had also damaged roads in the area, leading to an increase in boda boda crashes. Two weeks ago, Mwingi residents barricaded the Mwingi-Garissa highway and offloaded all charcoal from a lorry ferrying the commodity to Nairobi in a bid to fight the illegal trade.Other lorries which escaped the wrath of the angry mob had to seek safety at the Mwingi police station. The incident followed a directive by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu banning all charcoal and sand businesses within the county to curb massive destruction of trees and rivers in Kitui, which has resulted in poor rains and perennial drought. “We cannot sit and watch while rogue people continue ruining our environment. We must put an end to illegal charcoal burning and sand harvesting in Kitui county from today,” Ngilu said. On Thursday, the governor warned charcoal harvesters of dire consequences if they return to the area. She also instructed youths to attack any lorry ferrying charcoal.   