The race for the Kenya Cup playoffs intensify this weekend with two matches left to the end of the regular season. Fourth-placed Resolution Impala Saracens have a tricky date against seventh-placed Nakuru at home in the standout tie of the weekend. The Sarries have 29 points and will start the match as marginal favourites in what will be a tough encounter as they target a home quarter-final in the playoffs next month. Head coach Frank Ndong expects a tough encounter against the visitors “It will be a tough game. We need dominance upfront and improve our ball handling and discipline as well as take our chances. Nakuru are a formidable side and are also chasing a playoff spot,” said Ndong. Daniel Ndome replaces Kelvin Karani in the front row. Kenya Simbas prop Dennis Karani come in place of Anthony Orege as Michael Gitau comes in lock to partner Rainer Omondi in the engine room. Joel Omer returns to flank after a three month hiatus with Eric K’Opondo sitting out. In the backs, Robin Kiplangat comes in fro veteran Nato Simiyu with Ian Minjire replacing Billy Omondi on the wing. Nakuru are still licking their wounds after a 29-13 loss to Strathmore last weekend. The 2013 and 2014 Kenya Cup champions have 17 points and coach Mitch Ocholla, who faces his former club, said he expects his charges to bounce back. “We learnt our lessons from the defeat and I expect us to be sharp and competitive for this game,” he said. Key players for the Rift Valley-based side include Sammy Warui, skipper Isiah Nyariki, Edwin Makori and Charles Odongo in the forwards with Martin Mwita and Geoff Ominde the picks at the backs. Kabras, who saw their unbeaten record end last weekend face Kisii RFC at the Kakamega showground. The sugarmillers lost 30-12 to Homeboyz to see them drop to third on the standings with 33 points. The hosts welcome back Uganda import Phillip Wokorach for the encounter. Second-placed Homeboyz, buoyed by their performance last weekend, host Blak Blad at the Jamhuri Park showground as champions KCB — the only unbeaten side in the top flight — make the long trip to Coast to face Mombasa Sports Club. Mwamba, smarting from a shock loss to Kisii last weekend, face Nondies at the Railway club.