Allen Gichuhi is the new President of the Law Society of Kenya. Gichuhi emerged the winner after garnering 2,675 votes against his rival James Mwamu's 2,145 in the vote that took place on Thursday. He takes over from Isaac Okero who has been at the helm of the lawyers’ body for the last two years. This was the second time that Gichuhi and Mwamu ran for the post. Mwamu, a Kisumu-based lawyer and former East Africa Law Society chairman got 1,378 votes then, beating Gichui by only seven. During his campaigns, Gichui outlined the Arbitration Center and problems young lawyers face at the Kenya School of Law as immediate issues that he will fix. While congratulating him, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchuma Murkomen termed his victory impressive. Murkomen, a lawyer who is also the Senate Majority leader, wrote on Twitter: "I wish you God’s grace as you serve us and the country." To Mwamu, he wrote: "You fought the good fight. You are a gentleman. You will live to fight another day. LSK is a Family, let’s move forward together as we should." Lawyer Nelson Havi was locked out of the race as he had not practised for 15 years as LSK laws state. Via Twitter, he congratulated Gichuhi and Harriette Chiggai who was elected Vice President. "The engineered scandals against you only made you more popular," he said in his message to Chiggai. Read: Nelson Havi barred from contesting LSK presidency At least 20 women lawyers were cleared for positions that were up for grabs in the society. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission managed the election in which at least 9,009 lawyers across the country participated. The exercise attracted a lot of interest from across the political divide. Politicians want their people at the helm of the LSK because it influences the appointment of magistrates and judges, including the Chief Justice. “There is a definite attempt by the national political class to infiltrate, fund or influence lawyers on how they will vote. Some of the campaigns were expensive,” lawyer Danstan Omari told Star on phone on Friday, ahead of the vote. Also read: Twenty women to fight out for LSK positions in Thursday election Click here for the latest political news