Isiolo will become a meat processing and export centre under a newly formed initiative aimed at transforming the agro-pastoralism economy in Laikipia, Baringo, Isiolo and Samburu counties. Governors Mohammed Kuti and Ndiritu Muriithi yesterday expressed regret that the local livestock industry is performing far below its potential. Four counties have decided to turn it into commercial ventures. “Isiolo has an international airport and the biggest slaughterhouse in the region with the capacity to process 150,000 animals per year. As a region, we can use that facility to modernise pastoralism under the Amaya Triangle Initiative,” Muriithi said after a breakfast meeting with Kuti in Nanyuki town. Feedlots Last week, the KCB Foundation funded the initiative to the tune of Sh100 million. The leaders agreed to open a secretariat next week. Each member county will send a representative. One of the objectives of the Amaya Triangle Initiative is to introduce commercial livestock farming using modern technology such as feedlots — yards for animal feeding operations prior to slaughter — and disease-free compartments for livestock. Kuti said Laikipia was best-suited to lead the process of establishing feedlots because of the presence of organised ranches. The county chief said the region has facilities for processing and exporting fresh meat, especially to the Arab countries, but the livestock keepers cannot handle 150,000 animals for slaughter annually as they are grazed traditionally. “If we manage our livestock husbandry in a commercial way by creating feedlots, they will be a viable business for the private sector. We will have to address the issue of insecurity and create a better economy for our people,” Kuti said. The leaders have tasked ranchers to develop a framework for establishing feedlots. The move by the leaders will help Kenya recover its beef export quota to the European Union, which it lost 25 years ago because of livestock diseases. Laikipia is a major home of the Boran cattle, which is recognised internationally for its beef quality and tolerance to hot climates.