Oxfam has revealed that three men at
the centre of sexual misconduct claims in Haiti physically threatened
witnesses during a 2011 investigation. The charity has published its internal report on alleged abuse by some of its staff following public pressure. In the 2011 report, Oxfam said "more needed" to be done to prevent "problem staff" working for other charities. Despite the warning, several men linked to the alleged abuse subsequently took up roles at other charities. Oxfam
- which has almost 10,000 staff working in more than 90 countries - has
released a redacted version of the report, saying it wants to be "as
transparent as possible" about the decisions it made. Parts
of the 11-page document are blacked out to hide people's identities,
including the names of the three men accused of intimidating witnesses. Oxfam will present the original, unedited report to the government in Haiti on Monday and apologise for "mistakes". Oxfam has faced increasing international pressure over its handling of an investigation into allegations aid workers in Haiti used prostitutes. 'Bullying and intimidation' Seven Oxfam employees left the organisation as a result of their behaviour in Haiti in 2011, the report shows. One
employee was dismissed and three resigned for using prostitutes on
Oxfam premises. The the use of underage prostitutes was not ruled out. Two
more were dismissed for bullying and intimidation - one of whom also
downloaded pornography - and another man was sacked for failing to
protect staff. In the report, the charity said director of
operations in Haiti, Roland Van Hauwermeiren, "admitted using
prostitutes" at his Oxfam residence when questioned by the investigation
team. Van Hauwermeiren last week denied paying prostitutes for sex. He
was granted a "phased and dignified exit" and was allowed to resign,
the report added, on the provision that he fully co-operated with the
rest of the investigation. Another section entitled "lessons
learned" set out the need for tighter safeguarding across the industry
to stop disgraced aid workers moving to new posts. It read: "Need
better mechanisms for informing other regions/affiliates/agencies of
behavioural issues with staff when they move and to avoid 'recycling'
poor performers/problem staff." High-profile posts The report said "better mechanisms" were needed to stop disgraced workers being "recycled". Despite the warning, several of those implicated subsequently worked for other aid organisations, including at Oxfam. Van Hauwermeiren ended up taking another high-profile position, as the
head of mission for Action Against Hunger in Bangladesh. Action
Against Hunger said it had carried out a series of checks on Hauwermeiren but received no information from Oxfam of inappropriate or
unethical behaviour. Click here for the latest political news