When a hyena wants to eat its children, it first accuses them of smelling like goats. (African proverb). Anyone who held any doubts about Raila Odinga’s legendary courage ought to discard their reservations. True to his undertaking, he almost single-handedly swore himself in as the People’s President in Uhuru Park on January 30 before a massive sea of humanity. Kudos to the Jubilee government for having the presence of mind to withdraw police from Uhuru Park at the last minute, thus avoiding a confrontation that could have turned into a bloodbath. The actual swearing-in ceremony took less than 10 minutes, then an anti-climax, as nobody seemed sure of the next step. Much has been said about the absence of the deputy coalition leader and running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, but it is now emerging that this was part of the mutually agreed larger plan. The grapevine has it that most of the NASA leadership had been dissuaded from holding the ceremony by different parties, including diplomats, religious and business leaders. Raila was not persuaded. The ceremony has since been castigated by the US government, African Union and the European Union and the event is threatening to diminish Raila’s otherwise excellent democratic credentials. Why? Because the position of People’s President is not anchored in the Constitution and therefore is null and void. Already there is confusion in opposition ranks regarding the way forward. Jubilee meanwhile is gleeful over an event that they describe as a non-event and the joke of the year. The international community is perplexed that an Opposition leader with arguably the most impeccable constitutional credentials in Africa has gone against a Constitution he zealously protected for decades. Why then did the Opposition leader stake his life and reputation on a ceremony that has no roadmap for the future? One theory is that he was held hostage by ODM hardliners, James Orengo, Miguna Miguna and Jimi Wanjigi, amongst others. The other theory is that he was positioning himself as first among equals in the coalition for election in 2022. If the latter is true, then the Opposition leader can be accused of being incredibly selfish and dishonest. It is common knowledge that there exists a NASA agreement that specifically prohibits Raila and/or any other ODM member from running for President in 2022. Coalition leaders Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula sacrificed their presidential ambitions in favour of a Raila candidacy in 2017 and will not do so again. Many NASA members are indignant about being drawn into the National Resistance Movement without their consultation or consent. They aver that they are officially members of NASA, a legal, duly registered organisation with the Registrar of Political Parties. They are now being harassed by security agents and their personal security, firearms and passports withdrawn after Interior CS Fred Matiang’i proscribed the NRM. NASA is rumoured to be planning on holding a National People’s Assembly at which they will comprehensively review the 2010 Constitution with a view to holding a national referendum to amend it. A parliamentary system based on the Bomas Draft Constitution will be an essential part of this package. Many Kenyans are of the opinion that this is the route NASA should have taken initially without diversion into an impotent swearing-in ceremony that has no force or basis in law. Anything founded on a wrong premise almost invariably ends with a wrong conclusion, as in the instant case where we now have “a King without a throne or palace”. ODM members ought to take note and desist hijacking processes that lead their leader nowhere! Failure to change tack, consult coalition partners and seek consensus is threatening the coalition. For the first time in a very long time, Jubilee is gloating over this Opposition misstep. As the late Cabinet Minister Paul Ngei once said, “To slip is not to fall!” NASA can and must rise. Kenya deserves a strong opposition.