Kenya has issued a travel advisory for its citizens living in and travel to South Sudan citing insecurity in rebel-held areas. The Wednesday advisory came barely a day after two pilots, who were detained in the country after their plane crashed, were released. "Kenyan nationals living or travelling to South Sudan to move away from and avoid travelling to areas where armed conflicts and inter-ethnic violence have occurred within the last six months," Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma said. In a statement on Wednesday, Juma said the travel advisory applies to parts of the Greater Upper Nile Region and in particular Bieh, Latjoor, Akobo, Jonglei. Other regions are Northern Liech and parts of Maiwut, Eastern Nile, Boma, and Yei River State. "Kenyan nationals in other parts of the country are advised to exercise extreme caution as they undertake their daily activities," she said. The Cabinet Secretary said Kenyans should avoid unnecessary travels in the said regions since the security situation is risky and their security cannot be guaranteed. "We strongly encourage all those nationals who have not yet registered with the Embassy in Juba to do so immediately, by either visiting the Embassy or through email kembaju@gmail.com," Juma added. On Tuesday, Joy filled Nairobi's Wilson Airport when two pilots returned from South Sudan where they had been held for almost two months. Family and friends had waited anxiously for Captains Frank Njoroge and Kennedy Shamalla who arrived at about 2.30pm. The pilots who were captured in January were received by Juma in the full glare of the media. More on this: Tears of joy as Kenyan pilots return from South Sudan Oil-rich South Sudan has been riven by civil war since 2013. The conflict has displaced a third of the population, shut down most of the oil production and wrecked the economy. Read: South Sudan rebels free Kenyan pilots after Sh10.9m compensation paid - spokesman Related: South Sudan rebels demand compensation to release Kenyan pilots Click here for the latest political news   