International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9, singled out as one of the most extensive overhauls of accounting principles of the modern era, is expected to have far-reaching consequences across the financial sector. A couple of weeks back, we discussed the likely impact of IFRS 9 on SMEs’ access to credit. Given the capping of interest rates and the risk oriented nature of IFRS 9, SME’s are likely to have a tough time accessing credit in the near future. IFRS 9, with a primary focus on the manner in which credit risk is recognised by banks, requires the institutions to recognise and provide for the risk of default at the beginning of the credit life cycle. This is as opposed to at the time of default, as was the case prior to IFRS 9. The obvious impact of the above, is in relation to access to lines of credit. Banks that offer lines of credit are expected to buckle down and take an even more risk averse stance to providing credit. This, on the consumer side, leads to higher thresholds to attain in order to access a line of credit, with risk profiles taking a prominent role. However, banks are expected to take a hit as well. Recognising the risk of default at the beginning of the credit life cycle would directly result in lower profits due to the amounts of cash sitting in provision accounts. Assuming a line of credit is not defaulted on, this will have no consequence in the long run as the provision will be reversed once the line of credit is fully settled. However, in the short run, this provision expense will not only result in lower profits, but higher taxes as well. Per the Income Tax Act, increases in general provisions for bad and doubtful debts are considered tax disallowable expenses, while decreases in general provisions are considered tax allowable expenses. For a debt provision expense to be considered a tax allowable expense, it must satisfy the bad debt guidelines issued by the KRA. These guidelines note, inter alia, that for a bad debt to be considered as specific, and thereby tax allowable, the Commissioner must be satisfied that the debt has become uncollectable after all reasonable steps have been taken to collect it. The guidelines further note the criteria to be met in order for a debt to be considered uncollectable, with the threshold being placed quite high. Under the current bad debt guidelines, banks will be required to add back the provision expense incurred in the year of income in computing their taxable profits. This, effectively means they will have higher tax expenses during the life of each line of credit. In the overall IFRS 9 has a two prong effect on bank profitabilityin the short and medium term.