The National Resistance Movement’s self-proclaimed general Miguna Miguna’s lawyers have castigated the police for denying him access to a doctor at Lari police cells. Lawyers Nelson Havi and Edwin Sifuna have said Miguna’s health has deteriorated but he has not received medical attention. “We are concerned because Miguna is not in good health and police have refused him to access his doctor and lawyer,” Havi told the Star on phone yesterday. Read : Miguna’s arrest continues state attack on Nasa He added, “It is not our duty to produce him in court. The police are holding him. So, whether or not he will appear in court is not our concern right now. We want to check whether he is in good health”. Asthma attack Sifuna, on his Twitter handle said, “It is true. We received information that Miguna has suffered an Asthma attack. I have with me an inhaler but the OSC has become hostile. He won’t let me see my client to give him the medication”. On his part, the Law Society of Kenya president Isaac Okero said the law should be applied equally to all Kenyans irrespective of ones status. “Universal application of and respect of the Law is a key component of any constitutional democracy. When we have a situation where people are at liberty to pick and choose which elements of the Law apply to them, then we don’t have a democracy,” Okero said. During the NASA rally at Babadogo, National Assembly minority John Mbadi said, “They are arresting us yet we are the government. We will sue police for not following the law”. On Friday, High Court Judge James Wakiaga directed  that Miguna be released on a Sh 50,000 cash bail. Wakiaga certified as urgent an application Miguna filed through lawyers John Khaminwa and Havi. Miguna was directed to appear, in person, before court and serve Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet with court orders. Also read : Finally in Canaan? Dance and song as NASA leader takes oath “It is already 3PM and there is no possibility of him being brought to court before the end of the day he be released on cash bail,” Wakiaga said. Khaminwa said that the outspoken City lawyer’s life was in danger and he could be tortured further by police. Miguna was arrested on Friday morning after police used force to break into his house after a brief standoff. His arrest resulted to chaos after youths protested in Kibera. Click here for the latest political news