The once-abhorred Nyayo era, marked with authoritarianism, state terror, press censorship and violation of human rights, is back with a vengeance. How can a prosperous future for our children be realizsd under these conditions? This is not how we pay the debt we owe our children. Today’s youth must not allow us to squander that future. There is an urgent voice calling for action now: “Wade in the waters, children...” Can’t we hear it? The legendary Harriet Tubman, also known as “Moses” (who once had a US$40,000 price tag on her head for “slave stealing”), sung this song to alert the runaway slaves she guided to freedom. The song signaled runaways: “Use the river so the hounds can’t trace you. Tonight is the moment for flight; move swiftly; the reaction will be fierce.” Harriet speaks to us today: Now is the time: Stop this backsliding, “wade into the waters,” free our children from slavery. Wade into the waters, children! The Jubilee government, as an institution, has become a danger to the rule of law and the integrity of our democracy. The problem is not just President Uhuru Kenyatta; It’s the larger political apparatus, including Parliament, that made a conscious decision to enable him. In a multiparty system, non-partisanship works only if all players are consistent democratic actors and subject to independent institutions that safeguard democracy. If one of them is not predictably so, the space for non-partisanship evaporates. I am thus driven to believe the best hope of defending the country from Uhuru’s Jubilee enablers and saving the nation is to stage a public protest as Muthoni Nyanjiru in 1922 did. Protest against the government and Parliament until they get it right, or implode! Our waters are troubled in at least two possible ways. Lately, we have come to regard the government as a danger to the establishment of the 2010 Constitution. It has proved unable or unwilling to block assaults on the rule of law. If the assaults were normalised, they would pose existential threats to Kenyans’ future. Second, our economy is being shackled with foreign debt. This act is making a mockery of the Jubilee 2000 campaign, the international coalition movement, that pushed Western countries to forgive crippling foreign debts of the world’s poorest countries, including Kenya. It is irresponsible to deliberately and unnecessarily enslave our children’s future in debt, erasing their future ability to compete in the global world. But can we rely on our youth to deliver? In 1922, 27-year-old Harry Thuku — the leader of the East African Association — was arrested for acting and speaking against “forced labour of women on the roads.” Officials of the nationalist association rallied African workers in Nairobi to go on strike. On March 15, transport workers, domestic workers and government employees deserted their workplaces and gathered in front of the police station where Thuku was being held. As the crowd grew, a deputation of the East African Association, including Jomo Kenyatta, held a meeting with Acting Governor Sir Charles Bowring in his office. According to Audrey Wipper, one time Professor Emerita, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, Nyanjiru and her stepdaughter, Elizabeth Waruiru, were among the city’s female workers who came out to demonstrate. Nyanjiru was a Kikuyu woman who had moved from the village of Weithaga in the native reserves to Nairobi. Addressing the protesters, Kenyatta announced the deal the East African Association deputies had reached with the governor: Thuku could not be released, but the governor had promised him a fair trial. He, therefore, urged them to disperse. But Nyanjiru stood in the front of the crowd near Kenyatta as the demonstrators began leaving. She threw her dress over her shoulders and exposed her naked body and taunted the cowardice of the men and challenged them to stand up to Kenyatta. In Ngugi wa Thiong’o’s A Grain of Wheat, Nyanjiru is presented as having been incensed by men’s impotency against colonial oppression and, therefore, challenged them to swap their trousers for the women’s skirts. She was threatening to lead the demand for Thuku’s release if men were too cowardly to do it. The 300 women ululated loudly. The protesters were galvanized by Nyanjiru’s actions and the women’s call to battle. Men, who were beginning to disperse, returned. A large section of the crowd rushed forward towards the armed guards. Nyanjiru stood only a few feet away from the guards, who had been on duty for 18 hours. The guards kneeled and engaged their rifles at the command of the superintendent of police, Captain Carey. In the end, 200 Kenyans died. Thuku was exiled, first to Kismayu, then to Marsabit, Witu and Lamu. The sacrifice wasn’t all in vain: The tax was reduced from 16 to 12 shillings and was never again raised for the sole purpose of filling labour needs. African grievances were given serious consideration. This was the seed of struggle that matured in the later Independence of Kenya. Going forward, it is likely that public protest will be dealt with ruthlessly and may even be fatal for some, but there is gain for all we strive for. I am suggesting that, in today’s situation, we all should mount powerful public protests despite our party affiliation or policy position. Our demand should be: The rule of law as a threshold in Kenyan politics. Any party that endangers this value must disqualify itself. We must insist on unadulterated implementation of Chapter 6 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. Period. Then, perhaps, we too would be wading in the waters.        