Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos wants the military deployed to the Kerio Valley to end banditry. He said the KDF has previously been used to restore security in Baringo and Mt Elgon and it is time they were called back. “I wonder how many people we are waiting for to die so we take this seriously,” Tolgos said. His views were supported by Kapenguria MP Samwel Moroto and Marakwet East’s Bowen Kangogo. Tolgos said the government should turn its focus away from “nonissues” such as self-declared National Resistance Movement General Miguna Miguna to banditry in the Kerio Valley. He spoke on Thursday in Eldoret after a security meeting in Eldoret. Political and religious leaders as well as professionals from West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties were present. Tolgos said, “It is strange how so many officers have been deployed to crack down on Nasa leaders while schools have shut down because of banditry.” “The other day they deported Miguna. The way they deploy police to guard NASA meetings is the way they should secure the people of Kerio Valley.” Tolgos said he was tired of burying locals killed by bandits every week. “As a governor, there is little I can do because the national government is in charge of security. All I can do is cry with the people during funerals,” he said. Tolgos said there is no need to send KDF soldiers to Somalia while locals die every other day because of banditry attacks. “Why is it that when terrorism occurs, all security forces are deployed to act, but when it comes to Kerio Valley, no one cares?” he said. Tolgos opposed the exchange of guns for livestock, saying it has fuelled clashes. He claimed the illegal business now involves many people arming themselves and this leads to misuse of illegal arms. “That business is now the order of the day in Kerio Valley. There are too many guns in the wrong hands. This has led to the killing of more than 150 people since last year,” Tolgos said. During the security meeting, attendees accused the more than 2,000 National Police Reservists deployed in the region of making the situation worse. They said the reservists use guns to protect their own interests. Due to lack of training, poor pay and proper command, some resort to banditry. Schools remained deserted for the third day on Friday after 400 teachers left class and protested against insecurity. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i will visit the area next week. Matiang’i will visit the border of Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot and Baringo for a meeting with security chiefs and local leaders.    