THAT there is infighting in ANC
over the position of secretary general is no longer a secret. But the studious
silence of Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi
has become a matter of concern in the party. On
Tuesday, loyalists were overheard at a city hotel wondering why Mudavadi has
not stepped in to resolve the matter that is threatening to split the party
along the factions that are allied to nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi and disputed secretary-general Barrack Muluka. **** IS Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter headed for bigger
political roles, especially in Rift Valley, or is he digging his own political
grave? These are the questions a number of MPs from Rift Valley, Deputy
President William Ruto’s home turf,
were overheard discussing yesterday in Parliament. To some, Keter's star is on
the rise after standing his ground on his election as chairman of the Labour
committee in the National Assembly. Others, however, argue that if he
interferes with Ruto’s plans for his 2022 presidential bid, he might end up in
oblivion. Keter was re-elected in on the Jubilee ticket, despite having been a
vocal critic of the party leadership at some point. He trounced Ruto's communications
officer, Emmanuel Talam. ***** PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta’s delay in naming his full Cabinet has not only
killed the morale of the 13 CSs whose fate is unknown. He has forced some of
them to audit their past activities in the respective ministries. According to
our mole at the Presidency, at least three of them are almost sure that they
will not survive. One is said to be worried that his failure to deliver a
high-profile project he had been assigned after the Supreme Court ordered a
fresh presidential election, will cost him. ***** A section of MPs have
raised concerns over the status of Parliament’s media centre, which is now in a
deplorable condition. The floor, made of soft-board, and where the legislators
issue their press statements, has been damaged badly by termites. An MP who was
part of the team of legislators issuing a statement recently almost slipped
into one of the holes on the rotting boards. The legislators now want the House
leadership to repair the room to a status befitting the august House. ***** IS a new principal of a
girls' school in Makueni county throwing tantrums at students for being
transferred to the school? Some parents have complained that the newly posted
head teacher is harsh and disproportionate in his punishment of students. Eight
Form 3 students were forced to uproot grass with bare hands for a whole day as
punishment for being noisy. Click here for the latest political news  