YESTERDAY we told you about an incident involving some county officials in Makueni in which some people claimed that county commissioner Maalim Mohammed (pictured) and his team blocked Governor Kivutha Kibwana from accessing his office. Maalim has now told us that no such thing happened. He has explained that the security team met on January 5th and decided to beef up security around government installations, especially in the county headquarters, where Kibwana has an office. The decision meant, among other things, that all cars will be checked before being allowed in, irrespective of the owners. “it’s normal security work,” he said. JUST who is likely to be the next Public Prosecutor? We are told a number of people, including some senior lawyers at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, are angling themselves to take up the job, which enjoys security of tenure. Others who want to take over from Keriako Tobiko are also reaching out to members of the recently constituted panel with the hope that they will be favoured when the time comes. A Principal Secretary is unhappy with his new assignment. The PS was moved to a new docket recently and is understood to be complaining that he may not be able to work with his new Cabinet Secretary and that the ministry he has been given is “dry”. It is unclear what the man means by “dry” but those in the know have told Corridors that the man was “doing well” in his previous docket, but there is no room for corruption in the new docket. A businessman was heard complaining that the vetting of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Cabinet nominees was cosmetic. Reason? The absence of Opposition MPs who could ask the hard questions. The man claimed that people sometimes lie with a straight face to get jobs. He gave the example of veteran Journalist Farida Karoney, who said she would destroy the land cartels. “Is she ready to bite the hand that feeds her?” the man said, alluding to the families of Jubilee top honchos. Deputy President William Ruto has been embroiled in several land scandals, including on Lang'ata Road, where the magnificent Weston Hotel stands. JUBILEE Party’s strongman in Busia, Polycarp Onyango, met his match when he challenged Matayos MP Geoffrey Odanga to ensure there is security in Busia County, “Now that you have sworn in Raila Odinga as your President, we hope you ensure Busia has good security.” A WhatsApp group snapped back, “Take the crap to the right people. Jubilee has been in power for the last five years.”   