All is not as it should be in Jubilee’s Bungoma house and emerging cracks are expected to influence realignments in the run-up to 2022. The county is a NASA stronghold and is home to co-principal and Ford Kenya party boss Moses Wetang’ula. The ruling Jubilee Party has, however, been keen to make inroads and DP William Ruto has been using his allies to woo residents. But last weekend’s tour exposed emerging divisions in the Jubilee base that could undermine his prospects. Two of the DP’s known allies were surprise no shows at his events. Ruto on Saturday visited Milo Boys’ Secondary School in Webuye West, where only two Jubilee leaders — Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and MP Dan Wanyama — welcomed him. Other Jubilee leaders were conspicuously missing. Kimilili’s Didimus Barasa (JP) and his Bumula counterpart Mwambu Mabonga — an independent who pledged to work with JP — were no-shows. A party official who did not want to go on record alleged that “Lusaka and CS Eugene Wamalwa want to influence the 2022 polls and are already crafting a lineup for MP seats. This has not pleased current MPs.” But Lusaka dismissed the allegations. “Mwambu has been uncomfortable with Jack Wamboka’s close association with Eugene. As for Barasa, I think he is just petty,” he said. Eugene could not be reached for comment but his PA, Kizito Temba, said there is no bad blood between the CS, Barasa and Mabonga. Another source speaking on condition of anonymity said the legislators were unhappy for being short-changed by Jubilee after it was agreed they would be elected chairmen of some parliamentary committees. At Milo Boys, Ruto gave Sh5 million for the school’s expansion, as part of his pledge during last year’s campaign. He later attended another fundraiser in Namwela in Sirisia constiruency. On Sunday, he was in the violence-stricken Mt Elgon subcounty where he called on the National Lands Commission to address the land issues. Barasa and Mabonga attended several functions, including a burial ceremony, on Saturday and Sunday. This was unusual, as they have been by the DP’s side during previous events. Curiously, on Saturday, Barasa and Mabonga attended a funeral service alongside Ford Kenya chairman and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi. Barasa said they could reconsider whom to work with if the government does not heed the demands of residents. On Sunday, the duo attended a Catholic mass in Bumula. The first-time MP said things change day and night and he could even be considered for a chairman’s post of any other party apart from JP. The goings-on prompted speculations on social media whether Barasa had shifted allegiance.   