Transport on the Mombasa-Malindi highway was disrupted yesterday as traders fought running battles with police after Kenha demolished their stalls. The traders, based at the ‘Lights’ part of the Kongowea market, said they lost goods worth millions of shillings when their stalls and goods were destroyed by a bulldozer under supervision of police and Kenha officials. While the authority says it issued several notices to the traders to move so they can expand the highway, the traders said they were not informed. “We cannot just wake up and demolish business premises. We had issued several notices, the last being five months ago,” a Kenha official who did not want to be named said. He said this is not the first time the traders have disobeyed a vacate notice and their wares and stalls were demolished.  Loans But the traders said they would have vacated had they received notice. “We are not mad to let our goods be destroyed if we had received the notices,” trader Joseph Kioko said. Some of the traders said they had taken out loans as recently as two months ago and are now in limbo. “Where will we go? What will we do? The banks will not care that our stalls were destroyed by the government,” Kioko said. Benta Achieng, an M-Pesa agent, said she arrived at 6am as usual and there were no signs of trouble until around 7.30am, when she was ordered to leave her premises by a uniformed officer. “I was attending to a client and thought I was about to be robbed,” she said. Tourism stakeholders have urged the government to expand the Mombasa-Malindi highway to ease traffic. The section at Lights has been a major cause of traffic snarl-ups as traders encroach on the parking space. The traders battled with the police for hours, lighting bonfires and forcing motor vehicle to keep off the area. Many reached their destinations late as the section is the only road that easily links the North Coast to Mombasa Island and Mombasa West. The only alternatives are the Mwakirunge route or the Kilifi-Mavueni-Kaloleni route which is long.