Opposition leader Raila Odinga has criticized Western envoys over remarks that he should accept Uhuru Kenyatta as the legitimate President of Kenya. Earlier, 11 envoys led by US ambassador Robert Godec asked the Opposition to accept Uhuru and William Ruto as the legitimate President and Deputy President. "The Opposition needs to accept this as the basis for the dialogue that it and many Kenyans want," Godec said in a statement signed by the 11 on February 11. More on this: Accept Uhuru as legitimate President, Envoys tell Raila But Raila said Kenya is independent and does not need the advise of envoys. He was speaking on Sunday when he visited residents of Kijiji in Lang'ata where a fire broke out a week ago. "We want to tell them that Kenya is an independent country and they can only be observers... we know their positions," he said. "They can not come out here and tell us about democracy... we do not need advice from Godec and British High commissioner." Noting that Kenyans can deal with their own issues, Raila said they will not accept any interference and hypocrisy from the envoys. "...we are independent and we will deal with our matters as Kenyans... Maneno wanaosema ni tupu yote. Wanataka tuiingie kwa mitego (What they are saying is baseless, they want us to enter into traps)," he said. Raila said the envoys are only interested in bringing back colonialism in Kenya something that they will not allow. "Hao mabalozi waache unafiki...wacheni kuingilia vitu za Kenya kwa njia ya ukoloni... hatuwezi kubalia ukoloni," he said. This loosely translates to..."Those envoys are hypocrites, stop interfering with our business in a colonial way, we will not accept to be colonised again". The NASA leader claimed that envoys were more interested with doing business in Kenya rather than focusing on more important matters. Godec had said earlier that they admire the determination and creativity of the Kenyan people, "the energy and innovation of Kenyan business" "Wanasema wanataka kufanya biashara. Haja yao ni kuona vile wanaweza fanya biashara na kunyakuwa na kupeleka kwao. Hawana haja ya kufanya democrasia," Raila added. (They say  they want to do business. Their aim is to strike business deals with Kenya then loot to their country. They don't care about democracy) Raila has always rebuked the envoys for interfering with Kenya affairs. He maintained that NASA will not recognise Uhuru's re-election despite the Supreme Court decision upholding the October 26 repeat polls. More on this: 'Constitution my foot': Raila asks US to stop interfering with Kenya's affairs Also read: Raila rejects US call to share power with Uhuru