Succession politics is about the exit of President
Uhuru Kenyatta and perhaps of Raila Odinga from active politics after the 2022
election.  The ongoing politics of the swearing-in
of Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka and the emotive Coast secession debate are
gradually taking a back door. Suddenly, the focus is who should be Coast’s
presidential hopeful in 2022.  For many
of the native communities here, 2022 should be a hit-or-miss.  This is the time the Kenyatta and Odinga families
are expected to exit the political scene they have dominated for decades. Unfortunately, there has been less enthusiasm among
Coast politicians about this talk unlike in the rest of Kenya, where
presidential hopefuls are already known, and others are in the offing. We know, for example, that within NASA, even if Raila must
stand again, the other co-principals  —
Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula — will run as well. We also know that Deputy President William Ruto is in place
for the Jubilee Party, and so is Gideon Moi of Kanu. The three names from the Coast that could easily fit
as presidential hopefuls are Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, Kilifi’s Amason
Kingi and Kwale’s Salim Mvurya. Irrespective of their mixed accomplishments as
governors, the three have had substantial impacts in regional politics and
development.  Joho and Kingi, for
example, are well known as vociferous critics of the Jubilee government.  They are also vocal supporters of secession. Mvurya, on the other hand, has focused on development
politics. The entry of one of these politicians to the
presidential race will alter the face of the region politics. This is a region
with more than three million people, which has isolated itself from mainstream
politics for decades.  The time to change
this is now. To set the region free, we must do two things:  Source for a unifying leader and a homegrown
political party.  For a long time, our
politicians have mistakenly believed they could succeed and benefit only if
they joined establishment parties.   They have had nothing to do with the
development and growth of local parties. There was a lot of noise and excitement in 2016, when
Joho, bolstered by the ODM victory over the Malindi by-election, announced he
would vie for the presidency in 2022.  With
time, that excitement has faded away. Kingi has followed Joho’s footsteps by announcing he
too, will run for President. As political bedfellows, the two will have to
decide who between them will stand.  We
are still waiting. However, Joho and Kingi presidential bids are hampered
by the politics of secession.  With this
development, it is unclear whether their presidential hopes are pegged on a
secessionist agenda or an indivisible Kenya. The other problem is the political parties they intend
to use in that election.  Despite their
loyalties to ODM/NASA and JP for Mvurya, without parties they could call their
own, their presidential ambitions remain uncertain.  Parties are formed to serve personal and
ethnic interests in this country. For example, the Joho or KIngi presidential bids are
premised in the absence of Raila exiting the political scene; if he doesn’t,
their presidential bids will be dead. 
Even if he opted out, their chances of getting the ODM ticket will be
minimal since there are many significant others that would want to vie for the
presidency under this party. Mvurya faces the same problem.  He has no chance of moving up the national
leadership under the JP, even if Ruto opted to run for the presidency on
another party, which is not likely. There is no leader in NASA or Jubilee who will be ready
and willing to stand down in favour of Joho, Kingi, or Mvurya.  This is as clear as day and night and they all
know it. I have given Joho, Kingi and Mvurya as examples of
presidential hopefuls, given that in advanced federated or devolved democracies,
leaders, especially governors, have had higher rates of assuming national
leadership positions in their countries. 
In part, they are judged by performances in their respective states or
counties. Irrespective of their mixed performances as governors,
the three could be the potential presidential hopefuls.  The presidential candidate from the Coast must
not necessarily win the election, even if that is the goal.  However, will send a robust  political message to coastal communities that the
Coast also matters.