All alcoholic drinks traders in Murang'a county will from now on contribute towards the rehabilitation of addicts. The county government has imposed a levy on sellers and distributors of alcoholic beverages specifically for rehab. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said the county spends a lot of money on rehabilitating alcohol addicts, most of whom relapse due to the ready availability of booze. Wa Iria said he will no longer use money meant for development to treat addicts. “In 2015, I rehabilitated more than 1,000 alcohol addicts after the crackdown on second-generation liquor, all of whom cost the county government about Sh100,000 (each) for their three months treatment,” he said. The governor spoke at his office in Murang'a town on Monday. Wa Iria said he has instructed the Finance department to adjust the Finance Bill to include the levy for approval by the county assembly. “This levy will ensure every seller or distributor of alcoholic drinks contribute to the expense of treating those whose lives are destroyed by alcohol,” he said. Wa Iria said the county government is determined to wipe out alcoholism but he is disappointed that the provincial administration has allowed illicit alcohol to creep back. He said before the countrywide crackdown on illicit liquor three years ago, Murang’a was the epicentre of alcoholism. Residents were unproductive because they spent too much drinking and this hampered economic growth. He criticised county commissioner John Elungata for failing to control alcoholism. People are now drinking freely without observing the Mututho Law hours. “Bars are being opened in the morning and alcohol is being sold in every village, yet the provincial administration is doing nothing about it,” wa Iria said. He said he will increase the number of inspectorate officers to carry out crackdowns. Wa Iria said bar owners will be held responsible for the brands of alcohol they sell. Anyone who will be found selling alcoholic drinks that are not approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards will have their licences revoked. “I'm also warning landlords to be cautious because any premise found selling illegal alcohol will never be licensed to host a bar again,” he added.  