Kenya's biggest music app, Songa, was launched on Monday evening at the Tamarind Hotel in Nairobi. The event was graced by some of the biggest artistes in the country, including Sauti Sol, Nyashinski, Mercy Masika, Moji Short Baba, Vicmass Luodollar, Hopekid, DK Kwenye Beat, Guardian Angel, Alemba, Wahu, Nameless and Big Pin. Nyashinski said this kind of technology will give fans the opportunity to access their music. "It's very important and easy to get your music to the fans because now artistes have a direct relationship with the consumer. Music being so accessible now is easier for more talent to be noticed. For all the young people, this is the best time to showcase your talent." The Malaika hitmaker added: "For people in the past who've been blocked from other platforms because of favouritism or bias, this is the perfect time. They can achieve their dream to rise to the top." Vicmass Luodollar, who just welcomed a baby boy, termed it a sign of growth in the industry. "It's a big step in the music industry. Everything has gone digital and that's where we get our daily bread. For the Kenyan music industry, it means we are growing. I make money from my music. I don't have any other job. If I'm not in studio, I'm rehearsing or at home spending time with family." Moji Short Baba, who is now a solo artiste after parting ways with the other half of Kelele Takatifu, had this to say: "Everybody now has a phone even a 10-year-old does. A platform like this makes it possible for everyone to access our music easily, and that's a good thing." Alemba, a gospel artiste and MC, added: "As long as the music is accessible to our fans, we only need to work hard for it." Hey Z Da brand, who has been in the industry for the longest time, now says this is a once in a lifetime chance. "It's a good initiative. It's going to make Kenyan music even more affordable and accessible. It will sell the Kenyan music. However, I wish it can always stick to music alone. Our industry is going to go far. I started music nine years ago, and these opportunities weren't there."