Ministry of Sports Cabinet Secretary, Rashid Achesa has sent out a warning to cartels in the sector who are crippling the industry. Speaking during the hand over ceremony from predecessor at the ministry, Hassan Wario, Achesa put ministry officials on notice and promised to weed out corrupt individuals. “I want to put ministry officials and public officers who work under my ministry on notice. Better start praying I don’t catch up with you,” he warned. He explained that sports is no longer an idle past-time but a source of livelihood for thousands of our young people. “Sports is big business and we must shift our priorities to ensure our sportsmen have good platform to deliver for the country when they go abroad,” said Achesa. He added that he will rely on teamwork from the ministry officials to deliver on the pledges made by the jubilee administration. “As a sportsman, I arrive not as the lone ‘Mr Fix It’ but as a team player, who shall readily rely on the spirit of teamwork by appropriately utilising the unique skills and advice from all stakeholders including the officers in the ministry,” added Achesa. He said in due course, he will unveil the full agenda after reviewing and being fully appraised on the activities and vision of the ministry. Achesa thanked the President Uhuru Kenyatta for the appointment and was grateful to the National Assembly for reconfirming his worthiness to serve the people of Kenya as Cabinet Secretary. Achesa pointed out that his personal experience in sports will help him in utilising the unique skills in the sector. Hassan Wario on his part said despite the ministry being underfunded from the treasury, they were able to make milestones in his five-year stint at the ministry. “We have been able to refurbish Nyayo, Kasarani stadiums and we are now constructing Makueni Stadium. We also passed legislation on the Sports Act and Anti Doping. We have also had challenges which I do believe going forward, you as the new man in the ministry will be able to overcome,” added Wario. He said there is diverse talent in Sports, film and music, which needs to be harnessed for the young people in this country. Wario said Achesa brings energy and commitment to the ministry. Achesa is a former boxer and was in charge of the Amateur Boxing Association (ABA) western branch. Click here for the latest political news