Jubilee policies are as good as the
papers they are drafted on when it comes to implementation. Excellent policies
but full of loopholes for stealing and rewarding their cronies at the expense of Kenyans, as in the
recently named Cabinet. Not long ago, Kenya was the economic powerhouse in East African region but that is threatened by
countries such as Tanzania and Rwanda, which are working hard in implementing
their policies. Rwanda is currently third most competitive economy in Africa,
with Kenya at a distant sixth. We can all go round in circles trying to wiggle
our way out of this as we have been schooled by the masters of excuses, but the
bottom line is that Kenya lacks leadership. One thing Jubilee excels in is a lot of
talk and little delivery, despite what the government portal reads. You cannot
even compare President Mwai Kibaki’s achievements with Jubilee’s. One of the
reasons Kibaki almost lost the 2007 election was his silence on the strides his
government had made. Jubilee learnt fast from this. They invested too much in
PR and as with everything they lay their hands on, they overdid did and ruined it
in the end. Take the recent Cabinet appointments. Retention in government was
based on who brought much PR to Jubilee and not delivery. As a result, we
retained incompetent individuals in highly sensitive dockets. Those who had
touched on issues that affected the Jubilee cartels were moved to other dockets
and in their place were placed softer individuals who will be easy to
manipulate. Looking at Vision 2030, the brainchild of
the Kibaki-Raila [Odinga] coalition government, one cannot fail to wonder where
Kenya would be if it had been implemented as initially intended. All the
government policies and projects were aligned to this vision. However, all we
are left with at the end of the second mid-term economic plan, which ended last
year, is a lot of debt and many “complete projects”, only on paper. The
government was supposed to strengthen devolution to improve service delivery to
the ordinary wamnanchi at the grassroots under its very ambitious theme,
“Transforming Kenya: Pathway To Devolution, Socioeconomic Development, Equity
And National Unity.” Instead, they have continually mutilated
and disregarded the very Constitution they swore to implement through promoting
the development of the capacity of all county governments to ensure Kenyans
enjoyed the full benefits of devolution. They were to address issues of access to
opportunities and lower the cost of living. Five years later and the cost of
living has shot up due to the staggering national debt and the bloated wage
bill that is borne by the taxpayer. Going through the second MTEP, one cannot
fail to notice that no progress has been made towards the goals that were
outlined when Jubilee took power in 2013, and if there is, it is barely
noticeable. Instead, they have managed to cripple every sector, right from the
economic to the health sectors and reverse the progress made by the Kibaki and
coalition governments. The first Medium Term Plan was implemented by the
coalition government, and there is enough to show its effectiveness. Undersea
submarine fiber optic networks were completed, thereby efficiently linking
Kenya to the global internet networks, a total number of 1500km of roads were
constructed, and the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution was done, just to
name a few. To Jubilee, the Kibaki well-thought out
vision was a heaven-sent opportunity, not to grow Kenya, but an avenue to loot.
And looting they have. They prioritised the overly priced SGR over Lapsset and other projects that would
have given immediate economic benefit as it was an excellent cash cow for their
cronies. The result is the devastating state of the economy, with the national
debt continually increasing to an all-time high. Not even the Daniel Moi
government sunk us this deep. The NYS programme was well thought. It would have
significantly reduced the rate of unemployment, while ensuring development
projects were achieved in time. Instead, it was turned into an avenue for some
people at the top to eat. Kenya has excellent innovators and
intellectuals. They came up with the universal healthcare policy. However,
going by their past record and the fact that the Jubilee government was
unwilling to resolve the health crisis — even when doctors enumerated the
challenges in the health sector — this will be turned into another money
minting avenue for the corrupt in government. Even the staunchest Jubilee supporters
agree that although they was entrusted with implementing the second MTEP and
drive us towards the national prosperity projected in Vision 2030, they have
failed. Why then should they be entrusted with the third MTEP? If they continue
with their modus operandi, then Kenyans should start looking for citizenship in
other countries. The only problem is, the rate at which other nations that were
considered allies are looking to improve diplomacy elsewhere, we may not be
welcome there. We are now stuck in this country.