The Kisumu county government’s plan to move the Kachok dumpsite to the Kajulu area has suffered another blow. Four residents from Kisumu East constituency moved to the Land and Environment Court to stop the relocation. Rose Nyanjom, George Ondere, Titus Okuto and Ibrahim Onditi want the court to stop the county from proceeding. The petitioners have cited the Kisumu county government as the first respondent, city manager Doris Ombara (second respondent) and Naya Holdings, which was awarded the contract, as the third respondent. Residents, through lawyer Moses Omondi, say Kajulu residents risk being exposed to health hazards from the toxic waste that may also affect rivers in the area. Court documents show they want the transfer stopped. Naya Holdings was awarded Sh99 million for the job. The petitioners also say the tender award violated the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, 2015.The award was reportedly shrouded in secrecy. No consultation was done to give more information to Mamboleo residents where the dumpsite would be moved. The petitioner also says the county government and Ombara awarded the tender to Naya Holdings without carrying out an environmental impact assessment. The proposed relocation site is an abandoned quarry, less than 200m from the River Kibos. There is the risk of sippage of toxic waste from the dumpsite to the river. Residents depend on water from the river for domestic use. The matter will come up for hearing on February 19 before Justice SM Kibunja. Last month, the High Court dismissed the petition stopping the relocation of the dumpsite to Mamboleo after the petitioners withdrew from the case. On January 19, two petitioners pulled out of the suit in the Environment and Lands Court, seeking to stop the relocation of the Kachok dumpsite in Kisumu. It was a relief for Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, as moving the dumpsite is one of his flagship projects. Petitioner Fredrick Nyesi filed a notice to withdraw the petition on January 9. Kibunja said there was no petition pending before the court, since the notice had been received and the petition withdrawn. Kibunja vacated earlier interim orders that temporarily stopped the relocation of the dumpsite to Mamboleo. Nyesi and Nyanjom filed an application seeking conservatory orders restraining the respondents, through their employees or officers, from transferring waste from Kajulu to Mamboleo.