Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot governors began aggressive peace efforts on January 1, after 18 cows were stolen in Kamolokon on the border of the two counties. Elgeyo Governor Alex Tolgos and his Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo made several tours to the volatile areas of the border since September last year, culminating in a joint peace and prayer rally that brings together the Pokot and Marakwet residents in Kapsait. At the prayer rally, bandits are asked to return stolen livestock for the sake of peace. Instead, bandits start fresh attacks four days later on January 5. Lonyangapuo says the bandits wrecking havoc in the North Rift counties are known, urging the police to arrest and prosecute the suspects. DOWRY DEMANDS BLAMED Marakwet West MP William Kisang calls for reduction of high number of cows paid as dowry, or a ban on the culture of paying an unaffordable number of livestock as brideprice. “I am urging Pokot men to marry Marakwet girls because the dowry is just five cows, and even the five cows are not paid at once, they can be paid in installments,” he says. But peace coordinators, led by Richard Kayab, criticise the peace rallies, saying they have not yielded results. They urge leaders to stop meeting law-abiding citizens in trading centres instead of talking directly to bandits, who spend time in bushes. “Our leaders are using the wrong approach. They should talk to bandits directly before holding peace rallies with members of the public,” Kayab says. “Bandits don’t come from the moon. They are our brothers and sisters and we need to reform them.” Worried by the frequent attacks, ward representatives in four North Rift county assemblies have resolved to source for Sh200 million to stem the insecurity menace. Elgeyo Marakwet county assembly deputy speaker Christopher Kibor says each of the four counties is expected to seek Sh50 million in their supplementary budgets. “It is unfortunate that the lives of innocent people continue to be lost due to outdated cultural activities of livestock theft and other conflicts related to sharing of grazing fields and water,” he says. Kibor says MCAs will work with governors and religious leaders to bring lasting peace in the affected areas.