Jubilee Party will not be distracted by Nasa's "noises and political sideshows" as it is so focused on service deliverly, the DP has said. Ruto noted on Friday that Kenyans spent the whole of 2017 politicking so it is time for development; he said Jubilee will work on implementing its BIg Four agenda for food security, manufacturing, affordable housing and healthcare. Ruto further pointed out that the country has no time for disunity and hatred among communities so all leaders should serve their people regardless of their political affiliations. “Kenyans want to realise development. We should agree to work with elected leaders and move on. The jubilee government is ready to deliver its manifesto to the people and improve their lives,” he said. He and other Jubilee leaders spoke during the launch of Marigat-Muchongoi, Karandi-Ol Ngarua-Muhotetu and Muhotetu-Sibili roads in Baringo and Laikipia counties. Ruto presided over the function at Kabel grounds in Baringo. The DP also spoke at Kishaunet in West Pokot county after launching the tarmacking of Makutano-Kacheliba road. Among leaders who accompanied him were senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and deputy speaker Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi). The two said Raila Odinga's 'swearing-in' was illegal and that those responsible should face stern action as they are bent on breaking the law. Murkomen said Kenyans should be grateful to God that leadership remains in the hands of president Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy president William Ruto. “If Kalonzo Musyoka, Moses Wetang'ula, Musalia Mudavadi and Raila Odinga can't agree while in the opposition, what about if they take over the leadership of this country? It will be chaotic." The senator said the "political schemes" the public is witnessing courtesy of Nasa leaders is all about the 2022 general election. “My brother Kalonzo could not attend the so-called swearing-in ceremony because he was denied the opportunity to be the opposition’s flag bearer in 2013 and 2017 and has already sensed danger ahead of 2022." Kindiki urged the public to ignore the activities of the National Super Alliance as its leaders are "confused and unfocused". “Kenyans want to engage in development to eradicate poverty and improve their economic situation," he noted. Related: Miguna’s arrest continues state attack on Nasa Also read: How dare you fault Raila over oath? NASA tells AU, EU and US  Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), West Pokot governor John Lonyangapuo and deputy president William Ruto during the launch of development projects in the county, February 2, 2018. /DPPS 'Uhuru's presidency legal, immune to challenges' Others leaders who attended the functions were MPs William Cheptumo (Baringo North), William Kisang (Marakwet West), Catherine Waruguru (Laikipia woman representative), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu) and Patrick Mariro (Laikipia West). They told opposition leaders that their "political sideshows" will not deter the government from implementing its development agenda for the country. The leaders noted that all Kenyans must respect the rule of law Cheptumo said: “I am a lawyer and the constitution is clear on how to elect the president and how to swear him/her in. What we saw at Uhuru Park was illegal so action must be taken against those behind the move. “Any person who attempts to challenge the legality of president Uhuru Kenyatta should face the full force of the law.” Waruguru said the law should take its course as all Kenyans must abide by the constitution. “As MPs, we will stand with the rule of law. A few individuals should not play with the lives of Kenyans." 'Criminal elements will derail development' Ruto also addressed communities in the Kerio Valley, saying they should embrace peace and desist from activities which might undermine peace. He urged residents to cooperate with security personnel by volunteering useful information that can lead to the arrest of criminal elements. “Many people in the valley are law-abiding citizens. The few criminal elements should be exposed to law enforcement officers for action to be take against them. By doing this, we will achieve lasting peace and tackle insecurity challenges." On the Pokot community, Ruto warned politics and division will derail development. “Jubilee has come to change the history of West Pokot which is perceived as a cattle rustling region. We will work with all leaders to ensure wasted years are recovered by implementing more projects in the county.” Ruto announced that the government had set aside Sh1 million for the expansion of the Wei Wei irrigation project to improve food security. He added that allocations for the county's cash transfer programme had been increased from Sh55 million Sh240 miilion for this financial year. He said the amount will be increased to Sh300 million in the next year. “The county has more than 12,000 persons aged above 70 years. We have plans to ensure they benefit from the National Hospital Insurance Fund from next year." Click here for the latest political news