Political battles took centre stage during Yvonne Wamalawa's burial on Saturday, Moses Wetang'ula accusing Jubilee politicians of betraying Luhyas. The Nasa principal told them they were pursuing selfish interests by seeking favours while forgetting their people. Wetang'ula is part of the opposition's national resistance movement which does not recognise president Uhuru Kenyatta's leadership. He serves as Bungoma senator and Ford Kenya party boss and is also senate minority leader. His sentiments were echoed by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa who accused the Jubilee administration of forgetting Yvonne despite contributions by her late husband former VP Kijana Wamalwa. But when Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa rose to speak, he refuted all these claims and asked Chris to sit with the family and get educated. "Check for the correct information with the family. She always served and died as an ambassador. The information you have given is wrong and I must correct that perception. "I, Eugene Wamalwa, am the only family spokesman and no one can speak on our behalf." The minister asked politicians from the Western region to change their scope and work towards uniting the Luhya community. He noted "great need" for all leaders to work together and stop name-calling. "If we are really hoping to be respected as a community, we must change. We must stop divisive and abusive politics, manifested by intolerance and stone-throwing, no matter our political parties. Wamalwa said he had forgiven ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi for the incident in Vihiga when protests forced him to leave the Maragoli cultural festival. "My brother Wetang'ula, go and tell Mudavadi that I have forgiven him and that he is welcome to sell his policies to our people. We are peace-loving so that which happened is all gone." More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi saves CS Wamalwa after Vihiga youths threaten chaos He further termed Raila Odinga (ODM) a family friend with whom he has never had an exchange of world. "This must apply to all of us," he said. "Masinde Muliro supported Raila when Mudavadi and Wetang'ula supported [former president Daniel] Moi and at that time there was no name-calling. No one was called a traitor." But Wamalwa chided Wetang'ula and Mudavadi for attacking Jubilee-affiliated politicians. "I have been appointed and this is a national duty. I am not a tumbocrat as these leaders say. We made a decision to support the Jubilee government and they must respect our position." Deputy president William Ruto earlier noted Jubile Party is keen on development as its leaders have moved from last year's elections season. Details: God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto Senate speaker Ken Lusaka earlier reached out to the Luhya community, urging unity for the sake of development. He asked the people to take advantage of opportunities presented through Uhuru's cabinet and speak in one voice for effective service delivery. Eugene was Water CS in the first five year's of Jubilee's rule while Amina Mohamed was moved from the Foreign Affairs ministry to Education. Wanyama Musiambu was appointed the chief of staff and head of the presidential delivery unit and Rashid Mohammed the Sports cabinet secretary. "With all these positions, our region can never be same again if he unite," Wamalwa said, adding all his brother wanted was unity. "The political class must respect his legacy." Political talks filled the service despite the family's request for this not to be the case. Trans Nzoia governor Patrick Khaemba said the family had requested mourners not to delve into politics. Read: No politics at Yvonne's burial, says committee Also Read: Yvonne’s burial sets stage for more Mulembe power struggles Click here for the latest political news      