Chaos greeted the dismissal of a petition challenging the election of investigative journalist and Nyali MP Mohamed Ali. After the judgment, Ali, of Jicho Pevu fame, said the court had done justice to him and the residents of Nyali. He said the journey to reclaim Nyali from the “jaws of the wicked ones has started”. Ali ran as an independent after losing in the ODM primaries, which he said were marred by irregularities. But Said Abdalla, the ODM candidate, expressed his dismay with the decision and said he would appeal. Abdalla is the cousin of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Supporters of Ali, popularly known as Moha, clashed with Abdalla’s supporters outside the High Court in Mombasa. Police fired in the air and teargassed the crowd to make it disperse. Court sentries had to take Ali into hiding when Abdalla’s supporters attempted to pounce on him immediately after the judge left the courtroom. Celebrations by Ali’s supporters were cut short when they were forced to remain inside the courtroom, as police struggled to chase away Abdalla’s followers. Ali won 26,798 votes, Abdalla won 15,473. Judge Lidya Achode upheld Ali’s victory on grounds that the petitioner failed to give substantial evidence to warrant nullification. She said petitioner Daniel Omondi failed to prove his case against Ali, the IEBC and the electoral agency’s officials. Case premised on hearsay Omondi had given five reasons and sought to have the election declared null and void. He accused Ali of voter bribery, violence, intimidation and misuse of public resources. But the judge said the petitioner did not adduce any evidence to back his claims and depended on hearsay. On the use of public resources and misuse of security agencies, she said there was no evidence that prisons officers, who provided security to the MP, intimidated voters or campaigned for Ali. Achode also said the petitioner failed to prove that the security officers influenced the vote count at the polling stations. Ali acquired the guards legally as a candidate, she said. Achode said allegation of voter bribery was not proved. She said the petitioner should have adduced evidence to show that Ali offered a bribe and someone received it. “It is not clear that bribery took place,” Achode said. The petitioner failed to prove that the colour scheme he used during his campaigns resembled the Wiper Party’s colours, she added. The judge said even though both Ali and Wiper used colour blue, they had different shades that cannot be confused. Ali urged residents to join him in transforming the constituency for the benefit of all.