Maragua residents want government assurance that the Sh1.2 billion landfill to be constructed will not damage the environment. They want the National Environment Management Authority to release the impact assessment report to help them decide on the proposed project. The residents spoke in Gikono on Monday, while giving views on the Mitubiri Sanitary Landfill project to be constructed by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service Improvement Project. They said they are not opposed to the project, but want assurance the landfill won’t contaminate groundwater. Project officials say there will be no pollution, only biodegradable waste will be buried. Residents say most of them have dug boreholes and that is why they are apprehensive. They said they will only support the project if NAMSIP promises to stop it if it falls short of their expectations. 500 tonnes of waste daily The proposed project on 50 acres is to handle waste from Nairobi metropolitan counties, includng Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Murang’a and Kiambu. It will have the capacity to handle 500 tonnes of waste daily. Waste from the five counties would be sorted at the landfill and biodegradable garbage be buried at the site. Resident Muhiu Nguku asked NAMSIP to plan tours for residents so they can understand the project better. “I want to be assured the borehole I use in my home will not be polluted by waste from the landfill. We have received information this facility may end up tainting our water,” he said. Resident Susan Wanjiru accused some leaders, led by Senator Irungu Kang’ata, of blindly fighting the project before fully understanding it. Kang’ata has publicly opposed the project, saying it is an insult to Murang’a residents. He said Murang’a provides water to Nairobi and it should not be rewarded with a garbage dump. But Engineer Lawrence Mwangi, an official in the NAMSIP, said all residents’ concerns have been taken into consideration. “This landfill will not contaminate your water. The technology is designed to ensure water from the facility does not permeate into surrounding areas,” Mwangi said. The facility will only be used for 10 years, then the area will be converted into a forest. Area MP Mary Njoroge urged local leaders to stop politicising the project until they understand it.“I’m asking leaders to wait until they are taken through the public participation process before fighting the project because they are causing panic among residents,” she said. Njoroge said NAMSIP will sponsor visits by local leaders to landfill projects in other countries. Click here for the latest political news 