The political infighting in NASA intensified yesterday with Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC saying an ‘external hand’ is out to ruin the party. In what appears to be the new face of intra-NASA wars, an ANC parliamentary group and NEC meeting put two of its members on notice for being used, by among others, Raila Odinga’s ODM. The two were accused of attempting to scatter Mudavadi’s 2022 chances of ascending to the presidency and weaken the party. Read: Muluka SG post creates rift in Musalia’s ANC The meeting chaired by ANC parliamentary group chairman Ayub Savula singled out Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi. They were branded enemies within working with ‘external forces’ to destabilise ANC. Addressing the press, Savula read ODM and ruling party Jubilee’s hands in the party’s troubles. “We have evidence on the sponsorship of efforts to tear our party apart and halt Mudavadi’s presidential ambition for 2022,” Savula said. “If you want to go to Jubilee you can go. If you want to go to ODM you go,” Savula told the rebels. ODM chairman John Mbadi termed the allegations an ‘ANC issue’ and refused to comment further. Malala and Osotsi poured cold water on the allegations and instead turned the gun on Savula, saying he is a ‘broker’ plotting to sell ANC to Jubilee. “My wars with them emanated from the fact that I attended NASA’s swearing-in against their wish and I have always advocated that ANC is in NASA to stay,” Malala said on the phone. Read: Mudavadi to chair ANC meeting as rifts rock MPs over House jobs Osotsi said the team is trying to divert attention from the fact that ANC leaders skipped Raila’s swearing-in. “We have an obligation to protect the rule of law, democratic governance and electoral justice as has been promoted by NASA, where ANC is a member. If we are being punished for our active participation in NASA so be it. I will not be intimidated,” Osostsi said in a statement. The two – Osotsi and Malala – have recently been gravitating towards ODM since last year’s election, something that has disturbed Mudavadi’s team. The two have been hard on Mudavadi for skipping the controversial swearing-in on January 30. Speaking after the meeting at Amani House in Lavington, Savula said the party will meet next week to decide on the disciplinary action against the legislators, whom he promised to ‘engage head on and leave their political career staggering for the rest of time’.  Click here for the latest political
news