Eugene Wamalwa has asked his Cabinet colleagues to honour summons whenever they are called to appear before various House committees. The Devolution Cabinet Secretary on Saturday said this will play a critical role in strengthening linkages between the legislature and the executive. Wamalwa was speaking at Mombasa during the second day of the Senate Liaison Committee induction workshop. He said that in his case, he shall appear before Senate and National Assembly committees whenever invited to do so. "I will impress upon my colleagues in the executive on the importance of strengthening the linkage, especially those who have not been able to come," Wamalwa said. This came amid outcry after ICT CS Joe Mucheru snubbed a meeting with members of the Senate ICT committee to answer questions over the state's 10-day TV shutdown. The Gideon Moi-led committee accused the CS of undermining Parliament after failing to appear to explain the shutdown of Citizen, Inooro, KTN News, and NTV. Mucheru rather asked the committee to reschedule a date for the grilling saying he was engaged in a Cabinet meeting at the time he was expected at the August House. The committee wanted Mucheru to explain why the four stations were turned off during and after the swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga as the people’s president. In the letter to Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye, he said: "This office regrets the misapprehension that the communication of my unavailability elicited within the committee." Read: TV shutdown: I didn't snub Senate committee in bad faith - Mucheru Wamalwa said he will reach out to his colleagues to defeat the false notions and perceptions that the reasons the ministers give for skipping the sessions are a scapegoat. Speaker Ken Lusaka commended Wamalwa for his commitment to build a bridge of friendship to guarantee the success of devolution. "The assurance is very welcome," he said. Lusaka added that he expects constant engagements between the country's institutions for devolution to succeed in the 47 counties. The Liaison Committee is the apex body of Senate Committees. It is chaired by the Speaker of the Senate with membership being drawn from the leadership (chairs) of the 16 Senate committees. Click here for the latest political stories 