The silence of the Law Society of Kenya is disturbingly deafening. From not commenting on the legality of the office of Chief Administrative Secretary to the swearing-in of Raila Odinga as People’s President. Not the attack on media freedom or even the arrest of one of its members, Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’. A society that has hitherto been the vanguard of the rule of law, governance and democracy has abdicated its responsibilities. Okiya Omtatah has taken over this role. He has filed cases in court challenging the constitutionality of the CA’s position and the media gag while the LSK remained quiet. The LSK played a huge role in Kenya’s democratic history and the Second Liberation. Its former leadership, including Chief Justice Emeritus Willy Mutunga, Gibson Kamau Kuria and Paul Muite, led the society during difficult times and left their mark on history. The current LSK council is uninspiring and at times washes its dirty linen in public. Take, for instance, the 2017 presidential election petition, wherein the society sought to be amicus curiae. In opposition to the application one council member painted an image of a highly divided, somewhat partisan and politically polarised council. The LSK is blind to social injustices against its members and society at large. It has become an ivory tower and elitist. This may be because of capture by some political or economic quarters, poor leadership, or both. But even more pronounced is wanting leadership. The lawyers shall on February 22 have an opportunity to put their house in order when electing the president, VP, members of the council and members of the disciplinary committee. This election is however not without controversy. Lawyer Nelson Havi has challenged in court his exclusion from running for president. Central to Havi’s case is the Law Society of Kenya Act 2014, which spells out qualifications for one to run for president similar to those of a Supreme Court justice. According to the Constitution, for one to qualify to be a Supreme Court justice s/he must have been a legal practitioner of at least 15 years’ experience or a distinguished academic of at least 15 years of experience or someone with an aggregate experience of at least 15 years as legal practitioner and academic. The legislation restricts leadership of the society, hence, the running of its affairs. It is easier to be a High Court or Court of Appeal judge or indeed President of Kenya than LSK’s. While Havi argues that he has met the threshold, having been admitted as an advocate on June 12, 2003, he also believes that the section is unconstitutional as it is discriminatory against young members of the profession. There are about 8,000 active members of the LSK entitled to vote and vie, with about 6,000 being below the threshold of 15 years of practice and about 3,000 being below two years of practice, the petition reads. The 15-year rule means less than 25 per cent of LSK members qualify to run for president and VP. ‘Legal practitioner’ is not a defined term in law and attracts different interpretations. Article 166 ( 2 ) (a) of the Constitution provides that the qualification of judges of the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court be persons holding a law degree from a recognised university or advocates of the High Court. In the same breadth, the LSK president does not need to be an advocate in strict reading of Section 18( 1 ) of the Law Society Act, presenting an awkward scenario, given the nature and objects of the LSK. The initial draft legislation had pegged eligibility for LSK president to seven years. The bill was amended to make it 15 years without meaningful consultation and participation of LSK members. There is just a correspondence between council members and Parliament, which cannot amount to public participation. The outcome of this case will either continue restricting the leadership of the society or kick the door wide open to allow meritorious competition and restore the society’s place in governance and rule of law.