The High Court yesterday dismissed an application to stop the Law Society of Kenya from participating in the murder case against Dr David Muchiri. Muchiri is accused of killing Kenya Revenue Authority lawyer Jared Ratemo on July 11, last year at the Fig Tree Medical Centre in Ngara, Nairobi. Muchiri, through lawyer John Khaminwa, wanted the LSK barred from participating in the case. Justice James Wakiaga dismissed the application, saying it lacked merit. Wakiaga said the LSK has a right to be enjoined in the proceedings as an interested party. Muchiri wanted LSK barred, saying it was not a victim in the case. The LSK has assigned lawyer Stephen Ongaro to take part in the case on it’s behalf. Ongaro opposed Muchiri’s application, saying the matter before court was of public interest. On January 3, Justice Grace Ngenye declined to bring forward the hearing of Muchiri’s bail application. Yesterday, Wakiaga adjourned a ruling on whether to release the accused on bond to February 21. Earlier the DPP had rejected plea bargaining request by Muchiri and directed the case to proceed to a full hearing. Muchiri is also facing another case in the chief magistrate’s court where he is accused of sexual violence alongside former Imenti Central MP Gideon Mwiti. TORTURED, STRANGLED The 46-year-old doctor is accused of killing Ratemo at his clinic. Ratemo went missing before his body was found dumped near the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport along Mombasa Road. A postmortem report showed Ratemo’s was injected with an unknown substance, tortured and strangled. The lawyers genitals were crushed. Ratemo worked as a KRA supervisor at the customs and border control department. He had travelled to Nairobi to solve a tax related matter when he met his death. The death has been linked to an investigation he was conducting. Police investigations indicate that Ratemo had decided to pass by his law firm in Ngara. He left the place in a hurry for a planned meeting in town as he waited to catch an evening flight to Mombasa.