A standoff between landlords and the city planners over the amount
of space to be left for access roads has delayed re-construction
and resettlement of Kijiji slum fire victims. The informal settlement was razed down on January 28. Five people were killed and than 6,000 left homeless. The victims are still camping at the nearby Ngei Primary School
where samaritans are streaming in to offer assistance like basic needs. The landlords have rejected a construction plan prepared by
City Hall planners that requires 23 access roads to be left in the slum. It was said that lack of access roads hindered the county fire
firefighters from saving many houses as fire engines could not access
the place. But the landlords argued that the roads were too many and and
would occupy more space and lead to construction of fewer houses. “They want each road to be about six to nine metres wide and
this will surely hurt us,” Abdulahi Ahmed, a landlord and
Mugumoini Nyumba Kumi chairman, said. Ahmed said they have agreed on a
maximum of five roads and that landlords who used to have more than
10 houses would forego at least two to give room for the roads. Area MP Nixon Korir said the reconstruction of the houses by the government delayed the land belonged to individuals. “It is a challenge for the government to engage in development since the residents of Kijiji own the land. this would bring an audit
query, so we decided to support them in the process rather than build for them,” area MP Nixon Korir said. On Friday, the government delivered 15,000 iron-sheets with the MP saying that more construction materials among them nails, cement and timber would be delivered today. “There is a private developer who claims to have obtained the title 12 years ago when the village was already inhabited. But most of us, including myself, were born here and I am now 40 years,” Ahmed said. The landlords have vowed to petition the National Land Commission to revoke it. But Korir dismissed the claim saying that the land belongs to the
landlords and would not allow the grabber to take it. Deputy director National Disaster Management Unit Pius Masai said
the landlords have been asked to abide by the site plan to ensure
that access roads are left. On Friday, the government delivered 15,000 iron-sheets with the MP
saying that more construction materials among them nails, cement and
timber would be delivered today. Korir maintained that the reconstruction work would begin this
week with strict adherence to the plan.