The National Police Service Commission wants Sh253.9 million for gratuity, car loans, mortgage scheme and leasing of vehicles factored into the next financial year, even as its term ends in September. CEO Joseph Onyango yesterday told the National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security the staff is entitled to gratuity and mortgages. “The commission’s term is coming to an end in September this year, but its gratuity has not be provided for in the budget ceiling,” Onyango told the committee, chaired by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange. “The Sh20 million allocation for car loans and mortgages is only enough for one member of staff,” he said. Related content : County speakers highest paid with Sh20m mortgage, Sh4m car loan - report Maintenance of the current fleet of NPSC vehicles is high due to depreciation, the committee was told Chairman Johnston Kavuludi said they plan to lease 20 vehicles since they have been allocated inadequate funds in the current financial year – Sh21 million – for maintenance of motor vehicles. He said the commission needs Sh450 million in the next financial year for construction of its own office premises. “The lease for our current office expires next year. But upon completion of the new office premises, the Commission will save Sh75 million annually, being the cost of renting office space,” Kavuludi said. In addition, the Commission wants Sh87.5 million allocated for establishment of a counselling unit to cater for psychological health in the police service. They also want Parliament to intervene and have Sh150 million allocated for decentralisation of their services. “In order to ensure effective and efficient delivery of services to the National Police Service officers, there is need to establish field-based offices in nine regions outside Nairobi,” Kavuludi said. Related  : Taxpayers to ‘foot’ ex-MCAs’ uncleared car loans, mortgages The chairman said they intend to spend Sh66.8 million to vet 20,000 officers using the new county based vetting module. The Commission’s budget for 2018/2019 is Sh1.1 billion but the current allocation from the National Treasury is Sh552.3 million. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, who appeared separately before the committee, said his ministry had requested for Sh192.3 billion in the 2018/2019 financial year, but was allocated Sh130.8 billion. Click here for the latest political news