President Donald Trump has been embroiled in one crisis after another since his improbable election and inauguration more than a year ago. Nearly all of these are self-inflicted wounds, courtesy of his Twitter handle and inability to filter anything he says. Add that to his admiration and fondness for dictators, you have a US President unlike any the country has had in its history. Yet, Trump is not acting so wildly and at times wantonly in a vacuum; rather, he has enablers who are just as guilty for anything that he does that’s uncouth or un-presidential or otherwise sending the country in the wrong direction, such as his active dog-whistling to and among racists in America and war on women other than those who ogle him. These enablers include none other than Republican Congress leaders and nearly everyone else in their caucus, especially those from the so-called red states where Trump reigns supreme. These Republican members of Congress are afraid to criticize Trump, lest they’re booted from Congress by these fanatic Trump followers who are the majority in these states. The narcissist he is, Trump himself is surrounded by an inner circle of nothing but yes men and women, who can’t dare challenge him or give him anything but praise — a trait all dictators have in common. The good thing is that the country’s institutions are so strong and deeply embedded that it’s virtually impossible for any dictatorship to succeed other than on the periphery as it is now. When Trump succeeds in having a North Korea-style military parade in Washington, as he has requested and is likely to get, that will be the height of his dictatorship, and it’ll be downhill from there, probably tumbling into an impeachment. Rather than using his improbable election to chart a path to reelection, Trump is doing everything to make sure he’s a one-term President and to confirm everyone’s worst fears, including those of many of those who voted for him. President Uhuru faces a similar challenge, different only to the extent he’s not eligible to vie again, but substitute that with building a legacy and he faces the same challenge as Trump. He finds himself once again serving as one against all odds to do things that will not only begin to heal and unite the country, but also to create a legacy. There’s not enough time and space to enumerate the kinds of things Uhuru needs and must do to ensure the foregoing; suffice it to say the least of those is making sure in dishing out appointments, let him not thumb the nose on the tribes or regions he or his advisers deem to be his enemies. Elections are over, he’s not the President of those who voted for him, but of all Kenyans — and that includes those who refuse to recognise him for nothing can soothe the pain than an act of love and caring. What President Uhuru cannot do is to engage the gear in reverse and start hurling the country back to the dark days and times of impunity, lawlessness and abuse of human rights, but this writer does not believe he has it in him. But I can’t say the same thing about some of his hardcore advisers. An example of that would be any effort to try and intimidate or otherwise go after our exemplary Chief Justice, David Maraga, or select members of the Judiciary for making rulings that were or are adverse to him or Jubilee. To do so, Uhuru would forfeit any goodwill he has among many Kenyans, who may not have voted for him but accept him now as President on condition he doesn’t use the Presidency to settle political scores, something only befitting those most inept in the understanding of what politics and governance are all about. Goodwill he needs and must have to fend off those who want to make his Presidency an impossibility.