Families of the Lake Nakuru plane crash victims whose bodies have not yet been recovered now want the Kenya National Disaster Operation Centre to release the report of the rescue operation. More than 40 divers have failed to retrieve the bodies of Sam Gitau and John Mapozi since the tragedy occurred in October 21 last year. Five people died in the crash. The bodies of pilot Apolo Malowa, Antony Kipyegon and Veronica Muthoni were all retrieved. The families said they have not been able to conduct the required DNA tests as the disaster team has delayed to release the much awaited report. “We have been experiencing sleepless nights because we do not know the cause of the crash and where the bodies of my beloved son is. It is unfortunate the relevant department is yet to release the report. We need a DNA to be conducted but unless they release the report, it will not be possible. We are always tossed around not knowing who to talk to,” Florence Nyambura, Mapozi's mother said. Nyambura said it has been three months of agony trying to come to terms to the reality that they will never see the bodies of their loved ones. They would therefore be be contented to see the investigations report. Jonathan Kertich from the National Disaster Operation Centre, who was in charge of the operation, however said he was not sure whether the report had been released. “I am not sure whether the my had done the Director communication to the Nakuru police and Governor. I will follow up with my boss to know the staus of the report,” Kertich said on the phone. The families, national and county governments, National Disaster Management Committee, Kenya Navy, Kenya Police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Lake Naivasha divers among other teams that took part in the recovery operation. “It’s unfortunate that the body of our beloved son cannot be found. Our hopes of finding him have turned into frustration. But we are still praying for a miracle to happen,” Gitau's aunt Elizabeth Neri said in an earlier interview. Only one boat is patrolling the expansive lake in search of the bodies. A special Mass Service of the two deceased persons will be held on Saturday at the shores of Lake Nakuru from 10am.           