The widow of freedom fighter Dedan Kimathi has urged the government to produce her husband's body for the family to give him a proper burial. Mukami Kimathi wants the state to cooperate with the British government to exhume Kimathi's body for it to be given a burial that "befits a king." Kimathi is believed to have been buried somewhere within the Kamiti Maximum Prison. “My husband’s contribution to this country is evident and he deserves an decent burial,” Mukami said on Saturday. She spoke at her home in Nairobi when the city's business community visited her. Mukami said she has been having sleepless nights because of the failure of the family to accord Kimathi a proper burial. "Knowing that i properly buried him will be very fulfilling. I've shed a lot of tears and will continue to cry until my husband's body is availed to us. I will not relent," Mukami said. She said her husband was executed and buried by British colonialists. Mukami further said she had undergone a lot of agony and shed a lot of tears in her entire life and urged the government to consider the plight of freedom fighters who she said have been neglected for a long time. She said the previous government headed by President Mwai Kibaki had committed itself to finding the body of Kimathi but the process stalled. “There is nothing that will be fulfilling to me than being provided with the body of my husband so that I can properly bury him.” Mukami remarked Kimathi, she said, deserves a royal funeral for it is him and other freedom fighter who emancipated Kenya from the shackles of the colonialist. Speaking in her Nairobi home when the Nairobi business community visited her on Saturday, Mukami called on the British and Kenyan governments to hastily embark on finding the remains of Kimathi so she can at least have a piece of mind. “My prayer is that I be handed the body of my late husband. I will not tire for I am sure that he shall be found.”Mukami averred. Mukami who is frail and sickly said the British government was highly involved in Kimathi’s case as it is them who prosecuted,executed and buried him “I have shed a lot of tears and will continue to shed even more until the day I receive my husbands’ body”Mukami said. Echoing her remarks, Nairobi Business Community chairman Wilfred Kamau said they were willing to conduct traditional prayers at the Kamiti Prison to force the government to produce the body. "What Mukami is asking for is not too much considering that she has undergone too much emotional torture," Kamau said.