The dispute between City Hall and the Local Authorities Pension Fund over the Sh2 billion Mariakani Estate has spilled over to tenants who have been ordered to pay Sh490,000 each. There are 240 apartments in the South B property. Lapfund is demanding the payment for rent accrued from April 2013. It said that despite taking over ownership of Mariakani Estate, no rent has been forthcoming from tenants. “This non-payment is untenable and cannot be allowed to continue. This letter serves to demand from you Sh490, 000 being the rent payable from the month of April 2013 to date, at the rate of Sh10, 000 per month,” Lapfund told the tenants in a letter written by Gikera and Vadagama advocates. The law firm said it was under instructions to take action against the tenants to ensure full recovery of the outstanding rent. DEBT SWAP DEAL The letter said there would be no further demand and immediate compliance was required. “Should the payment fail to happen within a period of 14 days from the date hereof, we shall institute proceedings against you to ensure that a full recovery of the outstanding rent is made,” the letter said. Former town clerk Roba Duba signed a Sh1.4 billion debt swap deal with Lapfund on February 18, 2012, giving away the estate with 30 blocks of eight apartments each on 10 acres. City Hall owed Lapfund Sh2.1 billion and the pension scheme agreed to waive 50 per cent of the amount to acquire the estate. An audit has revealed that the estate is worth Sh1.9 billion. The estate was transferred from the old City Council of Nairobi to Lapfund on March 18, 2013. But tenants continue to pay rent to City Hall.The county government insist that the sale was irregular. City Hall asked tenants to continue paying rent to the county government. Lapfund wants all future rent payments gto be made directly to the fund or its appointed agent as earlier communicated to the tenants. “We understand that some of the tenants continue to remit rent to your accounts, contrary to the expectations of the law. Should this be the position, kindly and urgently make arrangements to remit such sums to our clients,” a letter to Governor Mike Sonko says.