Sacked Meru government casual workers have petitioned the county assembly to force Governor Kiraitu Murungi to reinstate and employ them on a permanent basis. The petition signed by 120 casual workers was tabled before the assembly on Tuesday by deputy speaker Elius Murega. There are 1,030 casual workers in the county government. Some 4,601 are employed on a permanent basis. The casual workers’ contracts were terminated on January 31. They want the Kiraitu administration to release to the public the audit recommendations on human resources and finances presented by Deloitte Consulting Ltd. It is unclear when the audit report was handed to the county. The firm was contracted immediately Kiraitu took over. The workers also want the county government to reconsider the decision to terminate their services. They say they should be given the first priority when county job Opportunities arise. In the petition, they said Kiraitu should actualise his promise of creating more jobs for the youth and women. MCAs Paul Bagine (Ntima West), Priscilla Karauki (nominated), Asneth Kaimuri and majority leader Victor Mutuma promised to follow up on the matter. Bagine said some have worked for more than 10 years and they should no longer be referred to or treated as casuals, but as professionals in their respective fields. Speaker Joseph Kaberia gave the Committee on Labour 30 days to summon the relevant government agencies, interrogate and table their report and recommendations at the assembly for relevant action. But Mutuma said the governor knows the problems and will consider their plea. Last month, Kiraitu said the county has a bloated wage bill because it pays 1,783 ghost workers. “Our wage bill is Sh7 billion and revenue is Sh9 billion. A headcount revealed 1,783 employees were absent. I believe many are ghost workers. There has been illegal, irregular and erratic recruitment, postings, disciplining, promotion and redeployment of staff,” he said. Kiraitu said 500 workers were recruited and more than 600 promoted during last year’s campaign period. “A total of Sh40 million was paid to 10 members, subcounty and ward administrators as imprests between January and last August. Skills analysis show only 17 per cent of staff have university degrees. There is a serious skills mismatch and some senior staffers are performing duties they were not recruited for,” Kiraitu said. The county chief said by the end of October 2017, 5, 822 people were employed, among them 4, 601 are permanent and 1,030 are casuals.