The new security measures introduced by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i during his first tour of the troubled Kerio Valley, albeit short-term, are a step in the right direction in containing banditry and cattle rustling. Pokot and Marakwet have been in the news over intermittent attacks by bandits that have led to loss of lives and property; livestock have been stolen, and education, health and agriculture disrupted. The measures include an overhaul of all security officers, the appointment of a special subcounty commissioner to coordinate security along the valley of Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot counties. He will report directly to the CS regularly. Others steps are arresting inciting politicians, holding county commissioners and county commanders responsible for acts of lawlessness in their jurisdictions and stationing police officers in learning institutions. The announcement that the security team will be overhauled was the sweetest news to residents, who continue to suffer at the hands of cattle rustlers despite the presence of hundreds of officers. The officers do not, in most cases, recover stolen animals due to what residents say is their late response whenever an attack takes place. It is emerging that those who commit these acts of lawlessness are no longer warriors in the traditional sense. They are warriors whose motive is to kill everyone they come across, including children and mothers who have nothing to do with their raids. Previous attempts by the government to carry out forcible disarmament in Pokot, Samburu, Turkana, Marakwet and Baringo East and mop up illegal arms have yielded little fruit. The raiders stage attacks at will and in most cases are armed with sophisticated weapons and are very familiar with the local terrain, unlike the security personnel. This gives them the upper hand over security officers. Forcible disarmament does not appear to be the solution. Even if all the Kenyan soldiers are to be deployed in Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Samburu, Baringo and Turkana, it would take years to collect enough firearms to justify the cost. Instead, such an operation would cost the lives of a few soldiers and a few hundreds of innocent residents as the bandits would have retreated to their hideouts. But even as Matiang’i introduces new short-term measures, the government should explore ways of redirecting the warriors’ negative energy by providing alternative sources of livelihood. It could improve infrastructure to allow small and medium enterprises to flourish as well as irrigated agriculture. It should be clear that these raids are organised by criminals for their own private enrichment. The national and county governments should make the development of marginalised areas a top priority in their agenda so residents stop relying on livestock alone. Poverty has driven many youths to cattle rustling. The creation of the department of ASAL (under the ministry of Devolution and ASAL) is a clear indication that the government is committed to addressing the challenges facing the region. Among the long-term efforts to solve the rustling problem is to bring the region into the nation’s economic mainstream by compelling the counties to initiate irrigation schemes, with the help of the national government. The government should also build roads, schools and hospitals. These initiatives would keep the youths busy and they will have no time to commit crime. This will make all the firearms in the wrong hands irrelevant. It is now upon the leaders from the region and the government to come up with initiatives to supplement the ones introduced by Matiang’i for a lasting solution. In the meantime Kerio Valley residents are optimistic that the new CS for security will come up with lasting solutions to banditry and cattle rustling, which have caused them untold suffering for decades, the same way he transformed the education sector. Works for the Deputy President’s Press Service. The views expressed are the writer's own kainobethwel@yahoo.com