The Kenya Defence Forces has defended the decision to limit the number of female recruits to eight per cent of the targeted 2,000 trainee soldiers. Recruitment
teams turned away more than 30 women in Msambweni, Kwale county on
Tuesday saying they had no slots. Lt Gen Joseph Kasaon, Vice
chief of defence forces, on Monday said
women will comprise between seven and eight per cent of the recruits. This means that only up to 250 female recruits will be listed before the admissions close on March 13. The decision is likely to attract criticism owing to the fact that it violates the constitutional two-thirds gender requirement. A senior military officer, who declined to be named because he is not allowed to speak to press, said military duty is
slightly different from other jobs. The official added that recruiting a big number of
women could affect KDF's operational strength. "Complying with the
constitutional requirement of not hiring more two thirds from a one
gender could undermine KDF in terms of strength." The officer said KDF is
trying to get to the level [2/3 gender rule] "but what we do is
slightly different". "Military service is a peculiar profession so
you cannot sacrifice the
numbers in terms of defence and strength of the service. You have to
balance between having the strength in the service and the
constitutional requirement - they have to go in tandem. We are
progressing but as much as we go forward, you have to bear in mind the
work that we do," the officer said. "We are not people who are
going to do internal jobs.Our job means lives on the line and we know
women have their own
challenges. If you have many of them then find that a quarter are
pregnant and others with various issues, what will that mean to the
personnel manning a particular area?. If you took 100 women to Somalia
and are killed there, what do you say?" KDF spokesman David Obonyo said the military is not discriminating women and is
committed to  meeting the constitutional threshold. He said KDF is an equal opportunity employer and everyone is given equal chance. "Once
the ladies are recruited, they undergo the same training as men, are
posted to do the same job as men and we try to have in that grouping
where they are going to work in a platoon or company, you ensure that it
is a mixture of both men and women but we must have a balanced group
where they will be able to do a specific job," Obonyo said. "Once here they do the same job everybody else does because they underwent
the same training and are equally qualified. But women have more
commitments. As much as she is a service officer, she is
someone's wife, mother, she is needed at home and all that. They have
some peculiar challenges but we don't segregate anybody." Read: Samburu women cry foul after KDF recruitment lockout Click here for the latest political news  