“Do you want to kill your son with pain?” This is what David’s father asked Maureen Atieno, 19, when she suggested they get their 14-day-old son circumcised. She had learned about the circumcision of babies on Radio Nam Lolwe the previous night. “The radio (presenter) said babies can be circumcised right after birth just like men. He encouraged mothers to do that because there are health benefits,” says the first-time mother. Compared to adult circumcision, early infant medical male circumcision (EIMC) is cheaper, heals faster and, unlike the case with adults, there is no chance that children would engage in any riskier sexual behaviour after circumcision because they feel more protected. But the idea of circumcising a days-old child scared men like David’s father, who declined to be named in this story. He squirmed in remembered pain as he recalled his own circumcision five years ago. He did not think a two-week old baby could bear that level of pain. “They also have very small organs. What if something goes wrong and the doctor ends up cutting more than the foreskin?” he asked. However, Atieno was determined to find out if EIMC would be a good thing for her baby. But having dropped out of school in standard six, she did not have the medical knowledge herself, and so she started asking men she knew. Only if necessary would she seek more information from the local health centre. Her baby’s father was against the circumcision, and so was a shopkeeper at the nearby Marindi shopping centre in Homa Bay county. Mark Owino, 28, questioned why anyone would “subject babies to so much pain”. “What if in future your son demands: mother, why was I circumcised? Is it not better for him to make that decision when he is grown?” he asked. Only one man, her cousin Robert Ndolo, outright supported circumcision of the baby. His own son had recently been circumcised, when he was two months old. Robert had been against it, but the baby’s mother insisted NOT SO PAINFUL Having got a father’s perspective, Atieno wondered what nurses would say. Early last month, she visited the Marindi Health Centre, which is about 2.5km away from Marindi shopping centre. She met Tindlis Onyango, 32, a registered nursing officer. He is about five feet tall with a disarmingly soft handshake. Onyango works with the Impact Research and Development Organisation (IRDO), a local NGO best known in Kenya for spearheading medical male circumcision in Nyanza, a traditionally non-circumcising region in Western Kenya. Onyango patiently explained the basics: that circumcision is a surgical procedure that removes the foreskin covering the glans (rounded tip) of the male organ. He told Atieno that circumcision is not as painful for the baby as she imagined. Prior to the mid-1980s, babies were not given anaesthesia because the medical community did not acknowledge infant pain, but that has changed. He added that certain conditions must be met before the procedure is done. “Babies must be less than 60 days old. Pre-terms cannot be circumcised until they meet the criteria to be discharged from the hospital, which includes weighing more than 2.5kg,” he said. Babies from families with a history of bleeding will not be circumcised until tests are done to make sure the child does not have that problem. “Finally we must get the consent of the parents and then the operation can be done,” he added. Apprehensive, Atieno also spoke to Evelyne Ndiege, 23, an insurance agent who lives in a rented house in Homa Bay Town. She had no regrets for having her child circumcised by Onyango in May. “My fiancé was very fearful and wanted our son to make that decision when he is mature,” she said. Evelyne decided to research more on the Internet. She bumped into claims that circumcision is painful for babies several times more than for adult circumcision. “My neighbour is a clinical officer and confirmed that they hardly feel any pain because they are anaesthetised and the blood vessels and nerve endings of babies less than two months old are not well formed,” she explained. Her six-week-old son, Kennaz Adon, was circumcised on May 30, this year. He only cried when being injected with the anaesthesia, she said. He continued suckling normally. After three days, the scar had healed. “Within five days, I could bathe him normally, because before that, I was only wiping him,” she explained. DECISION TIME “Atieno, what have you decided?” Onyango now turned and asked. Atieno scanned around the health centre. The walls were painted a deep beige. Next to them was the delivery room. Only one female nurse was working because the rest had joined a national strike, demanding higher salaries. Outside was a string of weary mothers, waiting to be attended by the female nurse. Atieno, like many mothers in rural areas, had given birth at home and missed such advice on EIMC, normally imparted by nurses just after delivery. Sometimes the indecision of some parents is torturing. Onyango was often forced to patiently explain the same things again three or four times. But he could not nudge parents into a certain decision. Atieno then announced: “My baby will be circumcised.” Onyango explained that the operation could be done immediately, as it would take only about 15 minutes. He ticked through some forms, and asked her many questions. Baby David Otieno turned one month old in November and was eligible. She appended her signature. Onyango then prepared the bed and placed David on his back, and used Velcro bands to keep his arms and legs still. He cleaned the baby’s genitals with antiseptic, and then covered David’s tiny body and its surrounding areas with a sterile drape. He then injected an aesthetic to the base of the male organ to ease the pain. David let out a cry. Onyango cuddled him It was now time to use the mogen clamp circumcision device. He slid the clamp over the foreskin and locked it after confirming that the tip of the glans was free of the blades. From here, he used a scalpel to cut the skin from the upper side of the clamp. No sutures are required for infants. He then removed the drape and generously applied Vaseline petroleum jelly all over the wound, and covered it with gauze. He had to demonstrate this to Atieno, because she would do the same, at least for the next three days. He also demonstrated how to hold the baby and dress him. Only a few drops of blood were lost in the entire exercise, which took 10 minutes, including preparation “I’m glad I’ve done it,” Atieno said as she picked up David, and asked more questions. She then smiled and walked back home.