Events in South Africa over the last couple of weeks have been rife with speculation, rumour and spin about whether or not now former President Jacob Zuma would be stepping down from office voluntarily, forced out against his will, or offered an immunity from prosecution deal as part of his farewell package. This took me back to the last years of the presidency of Daniel Moi. While like many in South Africa I’m not sad to see the back of the Zuma presidency, there were many things about him that reminded me of President Moi in his last years as the head of state. For starters, there was the intermittent throat clearing during a speech in English, especially when they were getting to what they thought were the good bits. Then there was the ever so slightly sardonic laughter during the speeches. There was also the persecution complex, trust nobody, especially the Western powers or their lackeys in your government, as they were all out to get you. There was also the way they were both self-educated, and how they were seen as political chess grandmasters until their own hubris paved the way for defeat. Then there was the way they made boring formal speeches with a remarkably wide English vocabulary — when they could be bothered — and then made their most important and sometimes dangerous remarks in mother tongue isiZulu for Zuma and Swahili for Moi. Of course, there are obvious differences — Moi left office without a fuss after 24 years in power as the result of a constitutional amendment that introduced two terms of five years each at the 1992 General Election, while Zuma constitutionally had another 18 months to serve, he was ditched after being replaced as ruling party leader after the African National Congress leadership polls in December 2017 and the party’s belated realisation of the many “challenges and negative developments” that bedevilled most of his presidency. However, the similarity for me with Kenya was in the tone of the debates around whether Zuma would go gracefully, jump ship or be thrown out of a moving vehicle. Those were the same discussions that swirled around Moi and Kanu for an year before the 2002 election. President Moi, who in his time was a master at hiding what he really meant in his public remarks, would make cryptic statements such as: “When the right time comes, it will be my duty to hand over my national responsibilities to a younger Kenyan leader.” He spoke these words in October 2001, four months after he formed Kenya’s first coalition Cabinet by including members of the then opposition National Democratic Party in the government. At the time, nobody could be sure if the “younger leader” was Raila Odinga, whose “political cooperation” with the ruling party had led to him and two others from his party joining the Kanu Cabinet, or if it meant Vice President George Saitoti or someone else altogether. Also, did the President mean his national duties as President of the country or as leader of the ruling party Kanu, or both? Did the statement mean there would be a transition period before the 2002 election and when exactly would it be “the right time?” For a time, during the two-week period before the ANC finally told Zuma that they wanted him out by hook or by crook and would even work with the opposition on a motion of no confidence, there were stories doing the rounds that the President was not ready to leave office just yet. One theory, which Zuma himself seemed to concur with in Wednesday’s long, rambling “interview” with SABC — it was more like a monologue — on the afternoon of his late-night resignation speech, was that he had tried to negotiate a transition period during which he could address Parliament, the African Union and the BRICS association and use the next three to six months as a kind of farewell tour during which he would take his successor by the hand and introduce him to each of these organisations. Despite its many challenges, including the now-discredited Zuma leadership, the ANC continues to straddle the political scene here in South Africa in a way that makes it truly the “Mama na Baba” political party that in his heyday, former President Moi would have given his ivory rungu to lead. The ANC is all-powerful and with its practically inbuilt majority (which could still be severely tested at the 2019 General Election) is what Moi would have loved Kanu to be. The ANC uses the left-leaning language of revolution, including calling its members ‘cadres’ — in an effort to stay relevant with its Alliance partners, the SA Communist Party and the Congress of South African Trade Unions. It is this status that allows it to speak of “deploying out cadres” to various offices such as the presidency or even to the business world, as it did with Cyril Ramaphosa. Cadre deployment is the appointment by government, at the behest of the governing party, of a party-political loyalist to an institution or body, independent or otherwise, as a means of circumventing public reporting lines and bringing that institution under the control of the party, as opposed to the state. Cadre deployment is the background to Ramaphosa’s rise from a trade unionist, activist and political negotiator to multi-millionaire businessman and politician. Of course the temptation for many right now, in the euphoria of the moment, is to treat President Ramaphosa as if he dropped into the leadership of the ANC from elsewhere in December 2017, when he was elected ANC president. However it would be wrong not to be clear that, in Kenyan terms, Ramaphosa is no outsider in the manner of Raila driving his NDP tractor into the Kanu Cockerel’s hareem or chicken coop. He has been part of the Zuma team since he was elected ANC deputy president in 2012, and subsequently appointed to be nation’s Deputy President. Ramaphosa is more like Mwai Kibaki, who sat quietly in Moi’s Kanu and never said a thing in support of reforms or about the corruption and lack of democracy. Instead preaching to the then opposition that taking on Kanu was like trying to cut down a fig tree with a razor blade and back in June 1982 moving the motion in Parliament to make Kenya officially a one-party state. Even when he jumped ship to join DP he was almost apologetic, saying he had been trying to change Kanu from within. Even though there was no real evidence of this. In the run-up to Ramaphosa’s election as ANC president, there were members of the South African Twitterati who thought the problem in SA was simple. There was a poor and, therefore, easily corruptible man in charge and he needed to be replaced by a very rich and, therefore, or so their argument went, incorruptible person. Some Kenyans, who in 2013 had mistakenly thought the election of a wealthy man as President would end grand corruption, tried to convince their South African friends that a rich head of state was not a silver bullet against graft. The South Africans went ahead and, I guess, soon, we’ll see if they were right and if, in fact, Kenya’s situation was an aberration.    