Ababu Namwamba has resigned as Labour Party of Kenya (LPK) leader following his appointment as Foreign Affairs chief administrative secretary. He was among those named by President Uhuru Kenyatta to take up the new jobs unveiled in changes announced on January 26. The former Budalangi MP announced his decision in Eldoret on Saturday at the party's retreat for top officials. "My appointment puts me in the position that I have to serve the nation. As a government appointment, I can not continue to hold the party position," he said. Also read: We're grateful for Ababu choice, but give us more slots, Busia Jubilee leaders ask Uhuru More on this: Chief Administrative Secretaries: Was Uhuru rewarding 2017 election backers? The CAS said his decision to quit was in line with Article 131 (4) (a) of the Constitution adding that the party will identify another leader soon. Namwamba said the job he had been given was pivotal in marketing the country abroad. "I thank the president for my appointment and look forward to more faces from our party being in government." He said he had made the best decision to quit ODM and join LPK. "The only regret I have is that I made that decision somehow late, but as the saying goes better late than never," he said. He said time politics is over and that Kenyans should now work hard to develop the nation. Namwamba thanked envoys in the country for asking NASA to recognise Uhuru as the duly elected president of Kenya. "We fully associate ourselves with sentiments made by the envoys on the political situation in the country," he said. Read: Accept Uhuru as legitimate President, envoys tell Raila Also read: Reserve your opinion, Kenya no longer a colony, Raila tells envoys He said the party has no doubt that Uhuru won elections twice last year and that he was proud to have led the Labour Party to work with Jubilee. The former legislator said the party entered into a "scratch my back I scratch your back" kind of partnership with jubilee and that the same will still stand. LPK, he said, supports Uhuru's four pillars of development to move the country to the next level of growth. "The presidents agenda reflects on the vision of Labour Party and that is why we fully support him," Namwamba said. He thanked members of the party for keeping it active and vibrant as it again prepares to participate in the 2022 elections. "The journey of tomorrow starts today and that is why we have started preparing early for 2022," he said. LPK chair Julia Ojiambo thanked members of the party for the "sterling job" in campaigning for Jubilee to win last year's elections. She said the party had made the right decision to back the winning side in the polls. Dr Ojiambo said they are grateful to the president for appointing Namwamba in recognition of the support Labour party gave to jubilee. "We are honoured as a party and we assure President Kenyatta of our continued support as he works to deliver on the jubilee mandate." Click here for the latest political stories   