Barely three months after taking charge of the national team, Harambee Stars, Belgian tactician Paul Put has quit. A statement from the federation confirmed that Put had tendered his resignation citing personal reasons. “Football Kenya Federation wishes to disclose that Paul Put has resigned as the Harambee stars coach due to personal reasons. The federation wishes him well in his future endeavors. Stanley Okumbi will take charge of the national team as the federation embarks on the process of looking for another coach,” read the statement from the federation. Puts departure is a major setback for Kenya as they continue their bid to qualify for next year’s African Cup of Nations that will be held in Cameroon. Only in December, the tactician had led Stars to their seventh Cecafa crown and had gotten a seal of approval from no less than Deputy president William Ruto. His sudden exit though puts his comfort under a cloud. Only last month, he had wanted a revamp of his technical bench, probably desiring to bring his own people on board. Other sources reveal that Put could have gotten a more lucrative deal in Guinea. The severing of ties between the federation and their main sponsors SportPesa that left a huge dent in the federation coffers could have led to a concern over whether the federation could meet their contractual obligation with him inspite of assurances from the government. Now the focus shifts to who will take over with Okumbi set to remain an assistant, having been demoted to that role when Put took charge. Okumbi was at the helm when the qualifiers began last year with the demoralising loss to Sierra Leone contributing to his demotion. With just weeks before Kenya continue their bid to reach the 2019 finals with a home tie against Ghana, the federation will be desperate to have in place a substantive coach to be in charge. It’s highly unlikely that a local coach will be considered for the role. Technical director Anders Spiers role within the national team will also contribute to who gets attracted to the top job. Click here for the latest political news 