The agency mandated with conducting Census in the country is racing against time to align the law governing the process with the Constitution before it holds the Sh18.5 billion exercise next year. Kenya National Bureau of Statistics director general Zachary Chege yesterday was at pains to convince MPs the agency’s readiness to conduct Census in August 2019 without aligning the old law with the 2010 Constitution. National Assembly’s Constitution Implementation Oversight Committee chaired by Jeremiah Kioni (Ndaragwa) warned that taxpayers risk losing billions of money if the KNBS proceeds with the exercise and then thrashed in court. old act extinct Oversight Committee vice-chairman Geoffrey King’ang’i (Mbeere South) told Chege the KNBS would lose the case if results for forthcoming Census are challenged in court based on the legality of the exercise unless the Statistics Act 2006 is amended. “You are not ready at all for Census. The old Act is extinct and the results will be challenged in court and lose the case the way you have been losing consistently,” King’ang’i said. Although Chege disclosed that the draft bill to align the Act to the new dispensation was almost ready, the MPs criticised him for neither updating nor involving them. “We are asking this committee to help us by putting in place the new Act before the Census. We want this process fast-tracked. Within one month, we will bring the draft Bill to align the Act to the new Constitution for scrutiny,” Chege said. manipulation of figures The Census to establish the county’s population is done every 10 years. The 2009 exercise was conducted before the 2010 Constitution was promulgated. It saw creation of 47 county governments, hence need to align the KNBS Census Act to the new law. The scheduled August 24-25, 2019 night Census will be the sixth since Kenya attained independence in 1964. The 2009 Census results were marred with discrepancies, including alleged manipulation of official figures at the national level, prompting court battles where KNBS lost both in the High Court and Court of Appeal. Kajiado East MP Peris Tobiko demanded an assurance that the next Census results will be credible. “There is a trend where Census figures are not credible. Such data was not completely credible in 1999 and 2009,” Tobiko said. Chege told MPs the agency will spend an estimated Sh3.5 billion out of the Sh18.5 billion budget to buy 164,000 smart phones and relevant Census hardware for use in the upcoming exercise. The United Nations recommends that during the implementation of the 2020 round of Census programme, all countries consider use of mobile technology. This is applicable to data collection during mapping and Census enumeration to improve the quality of data collected. The KNBS director general pointed out that a huge sum of the budget will be spent on more than 190,000 staff it plans to hire.