Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has faulted a judge for nullifying his election win on the basis of his academic credentials. Abdi, in submissions filed at the Court of Appeal yesterday, said matters relating to his alleged fake degree are criminal in nature and should not have featured in the judgment. Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has faulted a judge for nullifying his election win on the basis of his academic credentials. Abdi, in submissions filed at the Court of Appeal yesterday, said matters relating to his alleged fake degree are criminal in nature and should not have featured in the judgment. He wants the court to reverse the decision by Justice Alfred Mabeya, saying the issues tabled in court ought to have been subjected to a standard of proof that is beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Mabeya last month ruled that Jubilee’s Abdi was not validly elected because he did not have a valid degree certificate. He said Abdi, a former ambassador, failed to prove he had obtained a degree from Kampala University in Uganda as he had claimed. Mabeya added that as at September 3, 2014, the county chief had not graduated with any degree and “one cannot obtain a Master‘s degree before obtaining a Bachelor’s degree.” He held that the evidence tabled before the court on claims of irregularities on the face of Forms 37A, 37B and 37C was so overwhelming and the principle of the secrecy of the ballot was violated.  No proof of forgery The petition was filed by former Governor Ahmed Abdullahi. Abdi obtained orders allowing him to be in office, pending the determination of the appeal. He said the petitioner was at liberty to call a witness from the Commission for Higher Education and Kampala University but failed. “As a matter of law, proof of forgery would have called for document examination reports or the evidence of handwriting experts is required by the provisions of Section 48, 50 and 70 of the Evidence Act,” he says. Abdi argues that stamps are not a requirement of the law and the lack of them in Forms 37A does not invalidate the documents. He says the judge in nullifying his win failed to appreciate the fact that the candidates did not have 100 per cent coverage of their agents in all polling stations. “We would submit that the said scrutiny exercise was thus incapable of generating any credible material or evidence that would justify the annulment of an election,” he says. No evidence was tabled to show how the opening of one ballot box in the presence of all agents, police officers and observes affected the outcome of the election, he adds. “The decision by the learned judge to invalidate results on tenuous grounds and hearsay runs counter to the positive requirements of the election laws,” the document reads.