WERE some of the Cabinet
nominees coached before they were vetted last week? Well, some activists were
heard saying the manner in which some of the nominees responded to questions
was suspect. One nominee who has not worked in government, they complained – had
all the details, complete with facts and figures – of the ministry where the
said individual is yet to report. They also accused the Appointments
Committee of failing to ask the tough questions. Among their concerns were lack
of questions regarding academic papers for Sports CS Rashid Mohammed. The nominee narrated his humbled background and
thanked President Kenyatta for recognising the son of “a peasant”. ***** IS there a plot by the West
to isolate Raila Odinga and, among
other things, slap him with travel restrictions? Some senior people in
government think so. The officials, who were taking lunch in a five-star hotel
were heard whispering that the latest statement by the diplomatic community on
Raila was unprecedented. For the first time, the envoys openly trashed Raila's
claims about the last election as “unsubstantiated” and blamed the unbridled
political ambition of some for fundamentally weakening Kenyan institutions. The
officials said the diplomats have often communicated in vague and cagey
language and that the blunt tough talk was a warning salvo. ***** A prominent governor is
being blamed for persuading his party leader not to turn up for the swearing-in
ceremony of Opposition chief Raila
Odinga on January 30. The governor is said to have told his boss that
the 2017 politics is done and dusted and he should instead focus on the 2022
polls. However, as it turned out, the absence of his party leader triggered a
massive backlash. Some party officials are now accusing the governor of
plotting to kill the political career of their boss so that he can take over.
The said party leader has elbowed most of his former lieutenants out of the way
and is now working with a new team. ***** A Jubilee politician from
Nyanza is a bitter man. The man, a former powerful State officer, had told his
friends that he was headed to Cabinet. The man reportedly bragged that
President Uhuru Kenyatta needed
Cabinet Secretaries with political clout. He is reported to have been preparing
to throw a huge bash as a show-off to all and sundry. But Alas! His name was
not there. In fact, even the Party's Secretary General, Raphael Tuju, was
handed a CS position without portfolio. He has reportedly told his friends that
if he is not in the list of the remaining PSs or even Chief Administrative Secretary,
he will call Jubilee’s bluff.  Click here for the latest political news 