Former Tigania East MP Mpuru Aburi yesterday dismissed Peter Munya’s 2022 presidential bid and said the Meru region will support DP William Ruto. He said Ruto has proved that he has nothing against Munya after his appointment to the EAC and the Northern Corridor CS position. Just before the August 2017 election, Munya, the PNU leader, said he would run for presidency in the 2022. But speaking to the Star, Aburi said Ruto has the blessings of the Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders and the Meru community. “The Njuri Ncheke has the final say. The elders have agreed to support DP Ruto and, in return, he will be expected to take care of the region’s interests and development needs,” he said.  No leadership skills Munya lacks the charisma and vision needed to propel the country forward, hence, does not fit to occupy the top most office, Aburi said. The EALA MP accused Munya of interfering with Jubilee Party’s arrangement to have Ruto succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Munya was not able to retain his gubernatorial seat because he is not fit to lead. He lacks leadership skills, does not have the blessings of the community, and does he not understand that charity begins at home,” Aburi said. His remarks come after Tigania East MP Josphat Gichunge of PNU promised to rally his supporters behind Ruto in 2022. Gichunge said Ruto has proved “he is not driven by politics when it comes to importantnational decisions.”  Promised cs post After losing the governor seat in the August 8 election to Kiraitu Murungi, Munya filed a petition in court to have the election annulled. He said it was mired in massive irregularities and his victory robbed. He briefly joined NASA and said he would support its leader Raila Odinga in the October 26 repeat presidential election — Raila boycotted the rerun. But he soon withdrew his support for the alliance after Uhuru called him to State House, Nairobi. The former county chief also withdrew the petition and was promised a Cabinet position. Asked about his presidential aspirations when he was being vetted for the Cabinet post, Munya said he would focus on delivering for the government.  Miraa farming Meanwhile, Aburi urged the national government to prioritise Miraa farming to improve the livelihoods of Meru region residents. He said the crop is the mainstay of many locals and its dwindling markets threaten the lives of many.