Kilifi Assembly Clerk Arnold Mkare will improve relations between the Legislature and the Executive should he become county secretary. Mkare made this promise on Monday, noting a "sour" relationship between the two for the last five years. This has affected development and implementation of laws passed, said the Clerk who also served under the defunct county council. Mkare is one of three people shortlisted for the position as Owen Baya became Kilifi North Member of Parliament. Read: MP Owen Baya demands equal share of jobs for locals in Kilifi North resorts During his vetting yesterday by the Committee on Appointments, the Clerk also promised an end to summonses, saying his leadership style will be consultative. ”The Assembly will be very busy. As the Executive, we shall consult it on all matters ... no more summonses ...," he said. While pledging to deliver, Mkare asked the Assembly for support and for members to hold him accountable. The committee, led by speaker Jimmy Kahindi raised matters including allegations of the existence of ghost workers, poor revenue collection and failure to implement laws. On ghost workers, the candidate noted a blotted wage bill but explained that he did not have the mandate to hire staff. He promised to work with the Public Service Board on staff audits and ensure reports are presented to the Assembly for determination. He added: "There will be no more delays in submission of quarterly reports to the Assembly as witnessed in the last five years. “I will take charge of all issues and resolutions of the county Assembly. Hold me accountable as a county secretary. I promise you will see change." Mkare told the committee that the Assembly had passed many Bills since 2013 - water, revenue collection and others - but that none of them had been actualised. More on this: How true is Kingi’s claim state has withheld Kilifi's Sh3.2b since 2013? Regarding revenue collection, he said the situation was a "nightmare" as targets were not met. “We have done poorly in this department in the last five years. This has affected development but revenue collection is my baby ... I know where to start." The Clerk noted that higher amounts were collected before the onset of devolution. He said that with the change, new workers undermined those they found in office, causing demoralisation. "They are being paid for work not done," he said, adding that town managers should be appointed to ensure service delivery. "The county will be forced to review contracts such as that of Raindrops which is mandated with collecting revenue," he also said. Last year, top county government officials were summoned over allegations of corruption. Related: Reject Mung'aro, Kambi for development's sake, Kingi tells Kilifi voters Also see: [VIDEO] We'll jail Kingi, corrupt governors after August polls, Uhuru tells Kilifi voters Click here for the latest political news