Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) Most Valuable player Violet Makuto future at the Kenya Pipeline hangs in balance after the company terminated her three-year contract over what they termed as misconduct. Makuto is accused of sneaking out of team training to feature in a another club in a tournament in Dubai without following company’s consent. Pipeline are currently in residential training ahead of next month’s African Club Championship in Cairo, Egypt last month. This means the player will not be part of the 14-member squad that will represent the country in the Cairo show under the leadership of Japheth Munala. Kenya Pipeline communication manager, Jason Nyantino, was emphatic that once a player goes against the company rules and regulations, they have no choice but to terminate the contract. “It is just simple. The player in question did not follow the right procedure before featuring for a club in Dubai. It’s unfortunate but we have had to cancel the contract which was due in October,” said Nyantino. Reached for comment, Makuto who is a regular player both at the club and national team level, bemoaned the latest development but was quick to note that her heart is with Kenya Pipeline. “I have written an apology letter to the management and I hope the feedback will be positive because I still want to play for Pipeline,” said the left handed attacker after reports emerged that she might move to Kenya Prisons. On his part, Pipeline coach Japheth Munala acknowledged the player had written an apology letter to the management and confirmed they are indeed waiting for the feedback. “The player messed up by not following the right channels when she went to play in Dubai. However, we have to wait for the management’s decision on the way forward. But she is training with us here at Kasarani Stadium,” said Munala who doubles up as the national women’s team head coach. He added: “She is a good player and every team would want to have her services.” With the KVF registration of players deadline set for this weekend, it remains to be seen if the four-time local champions will sign the player who can also play as a right attacker and middle blocker.