Opposition leader Raila Odinga has claimed that there was a plot to grab Lang'ata land where a fire broke out last week. The fire at Kijiji area left four dead and more than 6,000 homeless. "Hii ilikuwa ni njama. Kunawahusika kwasababu wanataka kunyakuwa hii ardhi  na tunajua walipanga hii njama na wengine," Raila said. Read: [VIDEO] Sonko forms team to probe Kijiji slum fire, land grabbing claims This is loosely translated to mean....this was a plot to grab the land, and we know they want to grab this land. Addressing the residents on Sunday, Raila said Kenya is well aware of land grabbers and cannot accept people to be thrown into the cold. The opposition leader donated 1,000 iron sheets, 400 mattresses and 400 blankets to the victims. He was accompanied by MPs Oscar Omoke, George Aladwa, Simba Arati, Anthony Oluoch and TJ Kajwang. Raila said when he was an MP he built good homes in Kibera to allow people to stay in good places but noted that Jubilee was not keen on development. "Hakuna maendeleo Jubilee wataleta hapa hata wakikaa pale kwa miaka mia moja hakuna kitu watafanya...Ufisadi ndio jina ingine ya Jubilee" he said. .....Jubilee will not deliver any development even if they remain in power for 100 years. Corruption is their other name. The NASA leader further claimed that DP William Ruto grabbed land next to Wilson airport. In 2016, the NLC investigated how the Weston Hotel, owned by Ruto, acquired a land next to Wilson Airport claimed by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority. The five-star, 120-bed hotel is built on land where strategic equipment for air navigation is located. After a long silence, DP Ruto admitted owning the hotel on December 31 last year. Read: How DP Ruto Acquired Weston Land, Documents Show Plot Belonged To The Public "Pale Wilson airport amenyakuwa akajenga akaweka madenge yake... na wewe ni mkamu wa rais. Hapo ndipo ile Eurobond ilienda," Raila said. .....He(Ruto) has grabbed land near Wilson Airport. He has his planes there. That's how he used the Eurobond money. Earlier, Raila criticized Western envoys over remarks that he should accept Uhuru Kenyatta as the legitimate President of Kenya. Raila said Kenya is independent and does not need the advise of envoys. He was speaking on Sunday when he visited residents of Kijiji in Lang'ata where a fire broke out a week ago. "We want to tell them that Kenya is an independent country and they can only be observers... we know their positions," he said. More on this: Stop hypocrisy: We don't need your advice on Uhuru legitimacy, Raila slams envoys