Population pressure and pollution are the major challenges facing Lake Nakuru National Park. Environmentalists say people living near the lake have also contributed to pollution in the lake. Raw sewage and poisonous chemicals have been released into the lake. “The pollution has worsened in the past three months due to reduced river flow. This has compromised the river’s capacity for natural self-purification,” Lake Nakuru and Integrated Lake Basin Management coordinator Jackson Raini has said. Last week the World Bank and the Nakuru government conducted a clean-up in the park. More than 80 tonnes of solid waste were removed. Raini said the lake, one of the most intensely visited and studied water bodies in Kenya, now has less flamingos. The lake has been home to millions of flamingos. Deputy park warden Haron Sang said heavy pollution at the lake could have contributed to relocation of the birds. “Many flamingos left last year. They started coming back four months ago, but they have relocated again,” Sang said. The warden said River Njoro, one of the feeders of the lake, is heavily polluted beginning from Barut Bridge and Rhonda area. "Toxins are many and even the water is now dark in colour. This kind of pollution will greatly impact several species of birds and wildlife at the park," Sang said. Some large, licensed alcohol distillers in Mwariki, Rhonda and Kaptembwa estates have empty their waste into the river. The alcohol manufactured from molasses typically generates large volumes of waste water. “The effluent is characterised by extremely high chemical oxygen demand, which results to low pH, strong odour and dark brown color,” Raini said. Due to its fragile ecosystem and unique natural environment, the salt-water lake was the first in the country to receive recognition as a Ramsar Site - an area protected by an international convention and conservation of wetland zones. Nakuru, according to environmentalists, is one of a series of closed basin water bodies in the Rift Valley. “A worrying trend has, however, emerged after samples collected in the last nine years confirmed that effects from farming practices coupled with those posed by industries and rapid urbanisation are posing a lethal threat to the lake's existence,” Raini said. He said there is need to enact laws that require industrialists and other investors to place pre-treatment mechanisms in their factories to treat the effluence. Others include a suggestion that industrialists establish ultra-modern laboratories within the sewerage treatment works to check on the levels of effluent. Raini also said there is need to set up special environmental conservation courts to prosecute offenders involved in pollution and deforestation. “We are planning for a major clean-up on March 9, just before the rain season starts. We urge relevant departments, stakeholders and friends of the lake to come and help us clean and upscale resources towards the drive,” he said. Raini said the public should be educated on the importance of conserving the environment, especially near water bodies.