Within Kakuma refugee camp sits Kalobeyei Settlement Village One. Nearly 40,000 refugees live here, mostly South Sudanese, with a few from Ethiopia, Burundi and Congo. Women and children sit outside their makeshift homes, shielding themselves from the scorching midday sun. It is here that we meet Margaret Imoli, 16. Margaret is the head of a family of six children. She says they separated with their parents in 2016, when the war broke in their village while they were in school. “We went home to find burned houses and we could not trace our parents,” she said. “I stayed there crying with my siblings until our uncle came to our rescue at night.” They spent one night at their uncle’s place, and the following morning, he took them to a nearby church and handed them to the pastor. “The pastor told us the country was unsafe and we had to leave as soon as possible,” she said. The following day, the pastor offered to drive them to Nedapar, near the Kenyan border, a journey that took them three days. She remembers how they were ambushed at an area called Okuma Mafia by militias, who asked them for money or they would kill them. “The pastor tried to reason with them for more than three hours but they kept telling him they would kill and eat us,” she said. Somehow, she says, the pastor managed to win them over. “They said they only let us go because of my young sister, who was five years old then,” she said. At Nedapar, with Margaret as the head, the children boarded a bus to Kakuma, Turkana county. “The pastor paid bus fare for us.” They got to Kakuma as unaccompanied minors. After going through the refugee registration process, Margaret and her siblings were given a small-roomed mud house, which they have called home for more than a year. She says she had to learn fast the tricks of being a head from being a child. “My younger siblings keep asking me where mum and dad are, and I wish they would know I ask myself the same question. I wish I would know if they are alive or not,” she said, adding that it’s been a difficult time for her. IN SCHOOL They were enrolled to the Kalobeyie Integrated Settlement Primary School last year, where Margaret was enrolled in class 8. Head teacher Nick Kalobeyei says children separated from their parents tend to be depressed. “Many children here suffer from stress. When we come across such cases, we inform the authorities, who go the extra mile to assist them,” he said. Many pupils are drawn by the fact that the school provides one meal. It had 11,000 pupils last year, before the UNHCR started two more schools in the area to decongest it. “It was hard to run the school due to the huge numbers, but they have since reduced to 5,738 and counting,” Nick said.