Former employees of Nakumatt Holdings Limited face an uncertain future, after their jobs ended following the company’s bankruptcy. One former employee who sought anonymity, said it has been so hard for him to get a job because he owes KRA arrears which was never paid by the company. He appealed to the company’s new administration to help those who were repaying loans to Higher Education Loans Board and banks to get clearance. He said they should be cleared by KRA. Any arrears should be paid by the company as it is near impossible for them to get jobs without the government clearance. He accused Nakumatt of not paying the money to KRA and HELB as indicated on the payslips. “When I lost my job as a clerk, I was not given any other money except pension." He explained that deductions for various government functions and loans were made on the payslip but the money was never remitted to the respective institutions. The 30 year old who started working in the company in 2013 was first stationed at the warehouse before moving to the administration block. Work went on smoothly until mid-2016 when they were to get a salary raise. It never happened. They did not get even bonuses as was routine until 2017 when the workers' union stepped in. “The company started delaying our salaries, while others would receive increments in phases," he said. Things went south last year when suppliers started pulling out and workers resigning every other time. Salaries were stopped from April, leaving the staff with few options. “We opted to get petty cash in Sh5000 or Sh10, 000 as we had no options to fend for ourselves.” Nakumatt had a total of 6000 workers in the country but almost half were sent home when the company started experiencing financial difficulties. The former employee and father of one is now dependent on his wife. He received a very small amount of money for pension because Nakumatt stopped submitting the money in August 2016 despite deducting from his pay. "The money we contributed in the Sacco could not help most of the employees as they had not cleared loans." Most forme employees are now suffering as they cannot service their loans. “I had a loan of Sh100,000 and it has been hard for me to clear because my small business is still not stable. If only the company remitted the money to pay loans, I would have finished the payment”, he sighed. His payslip indicated he had paid for NHIF, NSSF, HELB, KRA but on inquiring, the organisations deny receiving any payment. Another former staff of the company who started working with Nakumatt in 2014 as assistant clerk resigned in September 2017 after he was not paid for three months. "Our salaries reduced to 40 per cent. I was not paid from July last year until I resigned though I eventually got my pay," he said. He is now listed as a defaulter at the Credit Reference Bureau due to unserviced bank loans. He is running a small business in Nakuru to make ends meet. COTU deputy secretary Benson Okwaro said all former employees who have complaints on payments should follow up with their union. "The aggrieved will only be helped if the union takes charge and make sure that all the monies owed to KRA, HELB, NSSF, NHIF are recovered and paid fully as the employees were deducted from salaries," Okwaro said. The employees can take their complaints to the NSSF office, indicating the period when their deductions were not remitted. The NSSF will give a demand note to Nakumatt." Chief Executive Officer of Nakumatt, Atul Shah did not respond to our questions and said that he stepped down from his position. "I am not the right person to respond to the questions concerning the former employees. The public relations manager will talk to you," he said before hanging up.