The first six athletes across the finish line at the national cross country championships this Saturday will be selected to form the Kenya team to the next month’s Africa Cross Country Championships in Algeria. Athletics Kenya (AK) senior vice president in charge of competitions, Paul Mutwii, yesterday disclosed that the county will pick 30 athletes from the five categories for the show. “As executive committee, we have opted to take the first six athletes across the line from the five categories and we expect to pick the best team to represent us at the Africa stage,” he added. The five race categories include Junior women’s 6km, Junior men 8km, senior women’s 10km, senior men’s 10km and mixed relay. Mutwii said Kenya Wildlife Service and National Youth Service will for the first time field teams at the national championship. “We have received interest from the two organisations that they will send athletes for the championship and they are very much welcome. However, we aren’t sure whether they will field athletes in all categories,” said Mutwii. The AK supremo said they expect new talent to emerge on Saturday in the absence of heavyweights like world champion Geoffrey Kamworor and Bedan Karoki, who are among the elite runners who will snub the event. “We do expect new talent to emerge as our elite athlete are preparing for the World Half Marathons and Commonwealth Games. As a country, we have so many good runners and I believe those who will be given the opportunity this weekend will do the country proud,” he added. Mutwii insisted that stringent measures have been put in place to curb in the cheating in the junior category. “We have spoke with the regional affiliates and told them to certify that the runners coming for the championships will not lie their ages, we will inspect ll their documents and even need be call their parents to certify that they have the right age,” added Mutwii. On doping, Mutwii said they organise a sensitisation seminar in conjunction with Adak on Friday, a day before the event. Kenya are the defending champions of the Africa cross country, having won the individual and team titles in 2016 in Yaounde, Cameroon.