Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki has asked doctor's union to abort the planned medical workers strike and instead allow room for negotiations. This comes after Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union gave a 14 days strike notice last week to the Government to pay new allowances to all Medical Doctors ( KMPDU members) who serve as Lecturers in Public Universities failure to which, all Medical schools and Teaching Hospitals shall remain closed. Speaking in Nairobi Kariuki said the health sector was delicate and needed not to be disrupted. "We call upon KMPDU to allow dialogue to solve the disputes in the health sector, let's do things differently, " Sicily said. Speaking to the Star KMPDU Secretary General Ouma Oluga said the government had not engaged them since they issued the strike notice. The strike has the potential of collapsing specialised services across all referral hospitals where over 600 doctor lecturers offer their services. The institutions to be affected are Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Kiambu Hospital. Others are Coast General, Rift Valley Provincial Hospital, and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital in Kisumu. The allowances, which are contained in the return to work formula doctors signed in March last year, were to be backdated to January 1, 2017. Pharmaceutical supply Kenya Medical Supplies Authority has dispatched pharmaceuticals worth Sh100 million to four counties to restock hospitals after 8 months without supplies. The counties include Makueni Kajiado, Embu and Meru counties. KEMSA in July stopped provisions of all medical supplies following a Sh2.6 billion debt the counties owed it. In an agreement between the county governments and the authority the counties have pledged to settle the debts by March through supplementary budgets. The authority further said it is working through a digital system now that will be guiding supply of pharmaceuticals through demand in the various counties. Speaking during the dispatch at KEMSA headquaters, Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki said the dispatch was vital in promoting proper health coverage across the country. “In order to achieve the universal health coverage as part of achieving the SDG then we need to have pharmaceuticals in our hospitals and we are working to ensure the counties have the supplies they need most. Kemsa acting CEO Philip Omondi also noted that the authority was set to dispatch another concealment worth Sh100 million to Makueni County in the next two weeks.  Click here for the latest political news  