I have spotted Eric amid my talk with Mick. I haven’t seen him since the day Frank and I had sex in a public restroom. It wasn’t my intention, but when I excused myself to see him and said hello, things didn’t quite go as planned. “You won’t even say hello?” I had asked as I approached the counter where he had taken a stool. He didn’t respond. Unfazed I took the stool next to him. “When I saw you walk in, I remembered the night you proposed to me. I remembered what you did to me that night in the restroom,” I said. He took a sip of his drink and continued to ignore me. “I know you’re mad at me. I know I’ve hurt you deeply,” I said. “But you don’t have to talk to me. Just follow me again. Into there….” I gestured towards the direction of the ladies’ room with a tilt of my head. “Call it whatever you want (what we’ll do in there). It can be hello. Or goodbye…” I concluded. I stood up and headed to the rest room. When I got to the ladies, I washed my hands nervously, dried them and touched up my lipstick. This was crazy. It was so wrong, yet so right. The audacity of doing it with Frank while Eric waited for me outside, blissfully unaware, was dizzying. It was even hotter than the first time we did it in a public place. Frank had not come in yet. Would he? I continued to wait. I knew he was hurt but he loved me deeply once. That doesn’t just stop. I paced a little, wondering if I had overplayed my hand. But which guy refuses a woman with no strings attached? I was about to give up when the door swung open. It was Frank. He stood there for a moment, his eyes unreadable. Then he walked towards me. We started to kiss. It was frenzied. He yanked my hair back and bit my lip. The sharp pain excited me even more. “This is what you wanted?” he asked. “Yes,” I mumbled as his lips pressed hard against mine. He started to unbutton my blouse. “Let’s go into one of these cubicles,” I said, fearing someone would walk in, but he resisted. “Wait,” he said lifting up my skirt. I moaned with pleasure. “Oh, Frank,” I gasped. The door swung open. Oh no. This is what I had feared. How embarrassing. I could only imagine the picture we made. My blouse halfway open, my skirt raised around my waist and Frank’s hands on me. We both looked up. I was expecting to see a disapproving lady but the face I saw was the last I’d ever have expected. It was Eric. The man who had just a few minutes ago, declared his love. Fast-forward to this evening and again, his face is the last one I expected to see. But he’s standing there, looking at Mick and me. Do I say hello? Do I ignore him? Will he cause a scene? “Do you know him?” Mick asks. I shake my head. “I’ve never seen him before,” I say. Eric continues to stand there. “Are you sure this is not a boyfriend? An ex?” he asks. I shake my head again. “Shall I get rid of him?” Mick asks. “No,” I say. “I’ll talk to him.” I stand up and pull Eric to the side.