Very rarely does Gor Mahia fans and players heave a sigh of relief to hear the referees final whistle. That seemed to be the case on Sunday when their one hundred percent record came under intense threat against Kariobangi Sharks. Then Dylan Kerr’s men showed their championship mettle and came away unscathed. Today, they will have to relive that all over again when they host their modern day nemesis Tusker come calling . The brewers have been a thorn in the flesh for Gor for the last decade and this is the same team who have prevented the record league winners from making it a clean sweep of KPL titles for the last seven campaigns. Sam Timbe’s charges, who have endured a stuttering start to the campaign, crucially got their first win of the campaign against Nzoia United. The victory was made possible by two goals from new signings Amos Asembeka and Timothy Otieno and Timbe will be hoping that the duo’s partnership continues to flourish as the brewers seek to bring their title aspirations back on track. Meanwhile, Gor will be able to rejuvenate their squad with Humphery Mieno, Francis Kahata, Ernest Wendo and George Odhiambo—all set to be recalled into the starting line up after being left on the bench for the Sharks clash on Sunday. It is the form of leading striker Meddie Kagere that will be a source of concern for Dylan Kerr and his coaching staff. Since scoring a hat-trick on the opening weekend of the season against Nakumatt, the veteran Rwandese goal getter has looked erratic in front of goal. It is not lost on Kerr that the SJAK footballer of the year has started all six of K’Ogalo matches this season and he may be due for a rest to recharge his batteries particularly with the all important Caf Champions League clash against Esperance of Tunisia just seven days away. Should he be rested, Gor will still be able to call upon Ephraim Guikan. The ivorian impressed in his first league start last weekend, scoring the winner and setting up the opening goal in Gor’s 2-1 victory over Sharks. Should they avoid defeat, the reigning champions will hit the summit of the table for the first time since their opening day 4-0 triumph over Nakumatt something that the brewers and most of the other contenders will dread. Meanwhile, Gor’s clash with Bandari that was set for Machakos this Sunday has been brought forward by 24 hours by the league managers to allow the Kenyan champions enough time to prepare for their CAF Champions League first round first leg clash against Esperance a week on Wednesday.