Women in Roba village, Kipipiri constituency, have accused police of brutality, forcing some people to run away from their homes. They said their husbands and sons have run away from home for fear of being beaten and arrested. Some women are also said to be spending nights out in the bush. They have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and human rights groups to intervene and end the police brutality, saying they have lost confidence in the government agencies in Kipipiri. They also said elected leaders in Nyandarua do not appear to care about their plight, despite being informed of it. Residents’ troubles began on January 24, after resident Maina Njuguna, 35, was killed at Hilton Bar in the village and his body dumped on the Kipipiri-OlKalou road. On January 25, the bar owner, David Njau, and his wife were arrested and taken to Miharati police station. Angry residents torched a section of the building which houses the bar. The building also houses a butchery, and an M-Pesa shop. After the torching, armed police officers secured the premises. On January 29, after digging the grave where Njuguna was buried, some youths attempted to burn the building for the second time. This provoked police, leading to the arrest of 27 people. Those arrested were picked up from their homes, shops and on the road. Ten of the 27 were workers at Laurel Flower Farm. They were released on January 29 at night, leaving eight men and nine women in custody. Eleven people were later charged in a court in Engineer with arson. The court was told property worth Sh1.6 million was destroyed when the building was torched. They were released on Sh150,000 bail. Only two have raised the bail money. Tame lawlessness Kipipiri police boss Charles Rotich told the Star on Thursday they are looking for more suspects. “I’m informed before I came to Kipipiri they burned many houses,” he said Rotich said they will ruthlessly deal with residents who break the law. “We decided to be very tough, because we have to be on top of things,” he said. On Saturday, a group of 20 women met at Roba shopping centre, where they agreed to demonstrate this week if they don’t get help. They did not give a specific day. They said they will walk from Roba to Ol Kalou to seek audience with Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia. Resident Mirriam Nyambura said they live in fear, particularly during the night when police strike with a list of youths they are looking for. “I’m an old woman but I cannot go out at night to relieve myself. I keep thinking my sheep are being stolen, but when I check I only see police officers,” she said. Residents’ outcry Like the case with most women, her husband has run away from home for fear of being beaten or arrested. Alice Thogo said police are more interested in persecuting the residents than resolving the murder. She accused police of protecting the murder suspect. “My husband is in custody. My two sons too,” Thogo said Resident Charity Kagema said police broke into her shop on Monday as they sought to arrest her. “I ran away and they looked for me the whole night. The following day I stayed in the bush. They took Sh2,000 from my husband, slapped him twice and threw him into a police Land Rover. Today if there is a distress call or a house catches fire in this village, no young man will come to help,” she said. Wanjiku Ngugi said her daughter was arrested as she went home from a nearby school where she works. Another daughter, a student in a college, was cornered by three police officers as she watched. “She was in a short, just the way she had come from the bathroom. I begged the police to allow me to give them sweaters, but they refused. They took them away with nothing to keep them warm,” she said. The women said they fear the worst when the night comes. “Our worst fear is we don’t know what these policemen may do to a woman if they find her alone in the house. We have no one to turn to. Our leaders have neglected us,” a woman, who requested anonymity, said. A Nyumba Kumi initiative elder, who requested not to be named, said police beat him, saying he did not protect Njau’s business premises. Wanjohi MCA Isaac Kung’u on Saturday said the police actions are unacceptable. He said they are making arbitrary arrests and terrorising residents without any evidence to justify their actions.