Domestic tourism in Trans Nzoia has received a boost after the Kitale Nature Conservancy/Ndura Park received two lions and a hyena. Proprietor Boniface Ndura said the park will use the animals to educate the public about the importance of conserving wildlife. The Kenya Wildlife Service delivered the lions and spotted hyena yesterday. Ndura said the park aims to nurture students into conservationists. “We want to turn our youth into good ambassadors so they will be able to view our animals much more positively. They will become conservationists of our national heritage, which is our country’s biodiversity,” he said. Ndura promised to keep the animals and visitors safe. He said the park receives at least 70,000 visitors per year. Hsaid the number is likely to rise to 100,000 with the introduction of the lions and hyena. He said the conservancy wants to increase the number of visitors this year from the 68 schools they receive per day. “If we have such a voluminous number of students advocating environmental conservation and biodiversity conservation, then our ecosystem, lands, animals and plants will be in safe hands,” Ndura said. The conservancy houses animals with deformities and educates the public on conserving the environment. It contains a botanical garden and holy mountain that is especially used for teaching students about the importance of conserving mountains. KWS Assistant Director in charge of Western Conservation Area Aden Alio said the entry of lions in Trans Nzoia will partly open Western Circuit tourism. The conservation area covers Western, Nyanza and part of North Rift. “We are glad that through Kitale Nature Conservancy, domestic and international tourists can view the lions and a hyena at close range and be able to appreciate biodiversity,” Alio said. He said the conservancy is one of two sanctuaries where animals are kept in captivity for educational purposes. The other is Kisumu Impala Sanctuary. Alio said the conservation area has also 11 protected areas, which include parks, reserves and sanctuaries. Species common to the area include the white and black rhinos, found at Ruma National Park. Elephants are found in Mt Elgon National Park, South Turkana and Nasolot national reserves. Mt Elgon National Park receives 7,000 visitors per year