Kopan Timbe and Vet Lab’s Nelson Simwa tied with a two shot lead as the second Barclays Kenya Open qualifying series entered its penultimate day at Sigona Golf Club yesterday. Both Muthaiga’s Timbe and Simwa completed Day 3 tied on 7 under par 209. Timbe, formally of Nyali posted 1 over par 73 on the penultimate round yesterday to stay atop the Sigona event, which is one of the four events being used by Professional Golfers of Kenya to pick a team for Kenya Open. Third is Mumias’ Indiza, who shot 3 under par 69 in yesterday round, for a gross total of 4 under par 211. Sigona resident pro CJ Wangai and day one leader Nelson Mudayi lying joint fourth on 2 under par 214 gross. The second qualifier culminates today at Sigona. Stefan Andersen, Dismas Indiza, Simon Ngige and Riz Charania have automatically qualified for this year’s Kenya Open. Andersen was handed a wildcard as a result of his current form in South Africa while Indiza, Ngige and Charania made it to the national team by virtue of making cuts at last year’s Kenya Open. “I’m glad that the pros have given a good account of themselves so far and we are all eager to secure Kenya Open slots. We will select the top 18 pros at the conclusion of the qualifiers during Jamii Telekom PGK Masters which will be the last event just a week before the Kenya Open. So the best 18 will be included into the team to join the other four automatic qualifiers,” said Wangai. On Day One, Muthaiga Golf Club’s Mudanyi sunk in a total of six birdies with only a single bogey for an impressive five under par, to take a two-shot lead on Monday. Mudanyi hit 15 greens on regulation with 27 putts for his super 67, which was his lowest round since last August, where he fired 65 at the same course. But this was short-lived on the second day on Tuesday when Timbe fired eight under par 64 to take the lead. Mudanyi has dipped to joint third after playing 2 over on Tuesday and 1 over yesterday. Timbe clung to his lead yesterday, but only just. He has Simwa breathing on his neck.