Geoffrey Simiyu emerges from his house in Marobo village, Bungoma county, with one of his triplets strapped on his chest. In tow is his wife Margaret Simiyu, with the two other babies, also on her chest. They are practising kangaroo parent care. The couple’s triplets, all boys, were born prematurely and underweight. A doctor at Chwele District Hospital advised them to apply kangaroo care. After doing it for two months, “They have now improved,” Simiyu says. He’s not ashamed of it in this part of the country, where men steer clear of duties thought to be feminine. “This work is not just for women. We men should join hands with our wives and help with the upbringing of our underweight children,” he says. Simiyu, 27, is a mason. He leaves home at dawn for construction sites. When he returns in the evening, he takes a bath, then his wife straps one of the babies on his chest. This is a relief for Margaret, because having three babies on her chest is practically impossible. When Simiyu is not home, the best his wife can do is bind her babies on her chest intermittently. The most she can manage is two at a time. A relative can come in handy, but she doesn’t have one living with them. It didn’t occur to Margaret that what began as sharp abdominal pains could end up being pangs of childbirth. Nine months hadn’t passed. “I delivered these babies at eight months,” says the 23-year-old mother. “The first had 1.5kg, the second 1.8kg and the third one 1.5kg,” she says. She practised kangaroo mother care for two weeks at Chwele Hospital. Her babies gained weight up to 2kg. She was encouraged to continue with this care at home. “Now they are 2.5kg, 2.6kg and 2.7kg,” she says. HUSBAND’S INPUT “My husband is responsible,” she says. “Sometimes he helps me with two while I care for one, especially when I’m cooking.” To breastfeed, she has to alternate the babies frequently until they are satisfied. She doesn’t take her husband’s help for granted. “I feel good because it’s not easy for men to assist in caring for babies in this way. Mine has come to accept that this is his family.” A nurse at Chwele hospital demonstrated to her how to practise kangaroo mother care. She grasped the concept and now she attributes the survival of her babies to this method. “If you deliver twins or triplets like me and all are underweight, try to convince your husband to help you with kangaroo care,” she says. At the Bungoma County Referral Hospital is Metrine Nafula. She’s just delivered an underweight baby. Her husband, Evans Wanyonyi, has visited. After cleaning up, Wanyonyi helps to care for their baby by strapping it on his chest. “The baby was born at seven and a half months with 1.8kg,” Nafula says. “We were in the nursery for three days before being brought to this kangaroo room.” Wanyonyi has been a great help. “I would like to urge my fellow men to discard misleading traditions. Let us be willing to assist our women in caring for our families,” he says. So long as his wife needs help, Wanyonyi says he’d be there to offer it. This is due to “the love I have for my wife and my baby.” Nurse Millicent Kiplai says Bungoma is ranked among 15 counties with the highest burden of neonatal mortality rate in the country, and they are trying to reverse the trend. “We are focusing on male involvement,” Kiplai says. “Initially, we had challenges emanating from cultural aspects from our communities, where prematurity was viewed as a bad omen.” But the turnaround brought about by KMC has influenced a change of attitude. A premature child is treated just like any other baby. Kiplai says last year, 2,017 babies were cared for through the kangaroo programme in Bungoma county. No records of survival rate were available at that time.