Corss-border attacks between the Marakwet
and Pokot are worrying and may degenerate into an ethnic war, Red Cross has warned. The humanitarian
body said on Sunday that about 116 houses were torched on the West
Pokot-Elgeyo Marakwet border after a raid on Friday morning. More on this: 2,000 flee after 70 houses burned in Pokot-Elgeyo bandit attack Four people
sustained gunshot injuries during the 5am incident and authorities reported that
2,500 people from both sides were displaced. Michael Ayiebei, Red Cross North Rift coordinator, said the houses were razed by youths who
were pursuing livestock stolen in Kamelei and Kipsitona villages. “The youths
decided to burn down houses after they failed to recover the stolen animals,”
Ayiebei said. The coordinator said the society dispatched
a team to ascertain the exact number of dwellings destroyed. “There are
serious displacements on the border and this is worrying us. Women, children
and elderly persons are sleeping in the cold." The society provided tents, blankets and mosquito nets for the people who were displaced displaced during the attack. “I worry
about retaliation because the communities are trading accusations. Political leaders
should do everything to ensure peace is restored,” he said. Former IG David Kimaiyo said two of his relatives were injured during the raid. Kimaiyo urged
Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to act swiftly to end runaway insecurity on the
border. “The
situation on the border is not good. Many people are dying and others turn to begging after losing their livestock. As we speak, two of my relatives
are nursing gunshot wounds. Seven people in Marakwet East alone have died in
January." The former
IG further told Matiang’i to generate a bill that will introduce harsh punishments for
cattle rustlers. On Friday,
Elgeyo Marakwet leaders led by governor Alex Tolgos and Senator Kipchumba
Murkomen lashed out at security agencies for failing to arrest known bandits. “There is
one notorious cattle rustler who is known by everyone, including president
Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy president William Ruto. How can you fail to arrest
such a criminal?” Tolgos said. Murkomen
described police officers deployed to the two counties as a letdown and
called for the establishment an anti-stock theft unit along the
border. Click here for the latest political stories