The Rai Paper management has been urged to tell residents when the mill will be fully operational. Bungoma Chamber of Commerce chairman Reverend Herman Kasili on Sunday said residents want to know when all the four phases of the mill will be up and running. Two phases are operational. The first phase was opened in December 2016, while the second phase was revived last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The mill, which was previously known as Pan Paper Mills, had been closed for about eight years. The mill had been closed in 2002 because of huge electricity bills, among other issues. It was sold by the government to Rai Group for Sh900 million. The mill now produces about to 3,000 tonnes of paper every day. Bungoma residents and leaders opposed the sale, saying the mill was sold at a throwaway price and they were not consulted. Senator Moses Wetang’ula said the mill could have been bought by the Bungoma county government. Earlier efforts to revive it by Mwai Kibaki’s regime in 2007 failed as it closed again in 2008 after the bills accumulated to more than Sh500 million. The Asians who used to run it fled, forcing the government to place it under receiver Ian Small. Kasili on Sunday said, “Since this mill was revived last year, we have only been told that only two of its lines are operational.” He said that the two phases only use recycled paper and no trees are used. Kasili said Uhuru promised the mill will create jobs for residents and improve the economy in the region. “Uhuru promised Bungoma and Western residents, who depended on the mill, they would get employment and earn good income,” he said. Kasili said the mill has not employed locals, as a majority of employees are from outside Bungoma. Last year in July, the firm management said 1,000 people would be employed, following the opening of its second production line. Residents want to know what has been done to ensure the two final phases of the mill are implemented soon. Kasili thanked Uhuru for ordering former workers to be paid Sh76 million last year. “What we want to know is if the families of those who have died were compensated or if their money was returned to the national government,” he said. Click here for the latest political news