Outgoing head of Public Service Commission Prof Margaret Kobia has released new regulations that place workers of state parastatals under the PSC. Previously, most state corporations had greater autonomy in management of their staff. The regulations, which replace the current PSC Regulations of 2005, also give the commission direct powers to delegate hiring of public workers. In the 2005 rules, the commission required authority from the President to delegate. A team that includes Cabinet Secretaries and heads of parastatals will discuss the regulations for two days beginning tomorrow at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. “Among the raft of proposals are provisions on appointment and promotions, code of conduct and qualifications, disciplinary control, and public service efficiency,” the commission said in a statement. promote national values Unlike the current regulations, the proposed rules have a chapter on promotion and reporting on values and principles of governance as well as values and principles of public service in compliance with the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. “The new Constitution gave the commission the responsibility to promote national values and principles of public service and to report to the President and Parliament annually,” PSC said. no one won integrity award Notably, during the PSC awards in Nairobi in December, no one was awarded the ethics and integrity award. This award would have gone to anyone who adheres to Chapter Six of the Constitution, which deals with the integrity of public servants. PSC vice chairman Peter Nkuraiya said the nominees were vetted thoroughly and no one was found suitable. “We put a watertight system and invited nominees from all entities in the public service. We interviewed the selected nominees. Recipients have gone through a thorough vetting,” he said. Among those expected at the workshop are CSs, PSs, representatives of state corporations. Others are constitutional commissions and independent offices, unions, County Public Service Boards, professional bodies and state officers. The teams will review the draft and make recommendations that will be consolidated into the final document that will be forwarded to the Attorney General for gazettement upon approval by Parliament. Read:PSC new gag order is a step backwards Click here for the latest political news