Security officers shielding or colluding with criminals in Mt Elgon will be investigated, sacked and prosecuted, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto has asked residents in the Bungoma constituency to cooperate with security agencies in combating rising cases of insecurity. Speaking in Cheptais High School during an interdenominational service on Sunday, the Deputy President noted meaningful development requires peace. “If there are officers partnering with criminals in Mt Elgon, the first line of action is to remove them from the service and charge them," he said. “Security will be achieved if residents cooperate with agencies because criminals causing insecurity are locals.” More on this: Man killed, three raped, SLDF ex-commander shot dead in Mt Elgon Also read: State refutes SLDF resurgence in Mt Elgon, blames killings on gangs Ruto said that the government, through the Interior and Lands ministries, will collaborate with the aim of reaching a permanent solution to the property disputes in the region. The DP also spoke on politics, asking Opposition leaders to shun division and work with the government to tackle Kenya's challenges. Ruto told Governor Wycliffe Wangamati to pass the message to Nasa leaders - that their continuous politicking affects service delivery both at the national and county levels. “Help us tell them to stop their political theatrics like the swearing-in and demonstrations," he said. “The time for elective politics is behind us. It is time to work together irrespective of who won or lost.” Read: End politics and join Jubilee's growth agenda, Ruto tells Nasa chiefs BUNGOMA WILL BE TRANSFORMED The Deputy President assured Bungoma residents that the government will work with all elected leaders in the county for its transformation. "I am telling you, my friend Wangamati, that those of us running the government will work with you to benefit citizens.” Wangamati said he will work with the national government for the sake of development. The two were with Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka and MPs Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East) and John Waluke (Sirisia) Legislators Catherine Warunguru (Laikipia), Kwenya Thuku (Kinangop), Joseph Gichimu (Gichugu), Janet Nangobo (TransNzoia) and Fred Kapondi were also present. Those who addressed the service asked residents to give police information that will help them weed out criminals and maintain peace so the region reaches its full potential. Wanyama said: “If you see anyone suspicious share the information with police so they can take action.” Waluke told Mt Elgon residents that it was pointless to demand development projects from the government amid rising cases of insecurity. Kapondi asked security agencies to investigate local leaders for possible involvement in the crimes. Kuria urged Wangamati to ditch the Opposition and join Jubilee Party because it has nothing to offer Kenyans. “Let us unite and engage in politics that will help take this county forward," he said, echoing Starehe MP Charles Njagua's message to ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi on Saturday. Details: Dump Raila for Uhuru, Nasa going down, Jaguar tells Mudavadi Click here for the latest political news