Lecturers have postponed plans to issue a strike notice over the government's delays to conclude talks for their 2017-21 CBA. The decision was taken to give the Inter-Public Universities’ Council Consultative Forum more time to consult with new Education CS Amina Mohammed and PS Japheth Micheni. The talks, whose conclusion deadline was Wednesday, have now been pushed to February 12. “This means benefits are already accruing and will be paid as arrears. This is through no fault of UASU,” Constantine Wasonga, Universities Academic Staff Union secretary general, said in a statement on Thursday. This is the fifth time deadlines have been missed in talks on the CBA, the IPUCCF citing lack of proper preparations on all occasions. Wasonga warned that the union will issue an “irrevocable seven day strike notice” on February 13 should the forum fail to meet their demands by February 12. He stressed the need for an urgent conclusion so the CBA is factored into budget estimates for the 2018/19 financial year. “UASU is concerned that there may be adverse repercussions for the higher education sector should the IPUCCF fail to provide a counter offer by the new deadline,” he said. “This time, things must be done differently to resolve the serious problems facing the education sector. UASU will not stand by and see gains made by academic staff being eroded." Related: Lecturers in strike threat over delayed CBA negotiations According to a return-to-work formula signed on March 13, 2017, the talks were to be concluded on May 31, 2017 and the CBA implemented by July 1, 2017. IPUCCF missed both deadlines and blamed this on preparations for the general election. UASU met the council on December 9 and agreed to start talks on December 18 but mutually agreed to push the discussions to January 10. On January 9, IPUCCF wrote to UASU saying talks would begin on January 15 but later pushed the date to January 19. The two sides have met twice since then, prior to the current stalemate. Apart from the conclusion of the 2017-22 CBA, lecturers are also pushing for the conclusion of 2013-17 internal CBAs for individual universities. The deadline for negotiations for internal CBAs is February 28. The dons also want the government to remit the arrears of their pension for the 2010-2013 CBA amounting to Sh1.56 billion and for the 2013-2017 CBA amounting to Sh2 billion. Further, they want their medical schemes to be a negotiable item in their CBAs and for the Education ministry to reverse a decision to hire lecturers on contractual basis. Click here for the latest political stories