A day before meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin for the first time as President in July last year, President Donald Trump once again refused to blame Russia for election meddling designed to put him in the White House — challenging a conclusion that US intelligence agencies had already made public a few months before. Trump did, however, blame former President Barack Obama for failing to stop the very same interference, as well as the intelligence agencies themselves, extraordinary criticisms coming from a Commander-in-Chief on foreign soil. No President had even ever come close to trashing the US intelligence services and a former head of state as Trump did, yet it was not the first nor the last time he found himself acting not only outside the norm, but altogether unpresidential. To enumerate examples here of the crazy and unpresidential things Trump has done would take neither the time nor space available: Suffice it to say, when he has done and said all the crazy stuff, volumes of books will be written for centuries to come. More than half of them would be classified as comedy, with a significant number portraying the tragedy his presidency already is. Trump trashing US national intelligence services, both at home and abroad, was and is still is not only unprecedented but also real-time damage to US national security. For example, because of his distrust of the Federal Bureau of Investigations in part and in efforts to muddy the waters on the ongoing probe into his campaign and his own potential obstruction of justice post-election, Trump ignored Department of Justice and FBI warnings against releasing a Republican hack piece peddled as a “memo” on wrongdoing at the agency, which turned out to be a dud. These, and other actions by Trump, serve to undermine the very institutions he swore to protect. President Uhuru Kenyatta found himself on a similar path — using the presidential pulpit to attack the very institutions he’s sworn to uphold through the Constitution. In the case of Uhuru, he used the pulpit to attack the Supreme Court and Chief Justice David Maraga in particular, when the SCK nullified the August 8 presidential election. Kenya’s top judges condemned the President and his supporters for an escalation of “savage” attacks on the Judiciary. The Judicial Service Commission said the attacks on judges, judicial officers and staff were “denigrating, demeaning and degrading, and meant to intimidate, threaten and cow the institution and individual judges.” Maraga said: “Senior political leaders have also threatened the Judiciary, promising ‘to cut it down to size’ and teach us ‘a lesson. We will not allow anybody to dictate to us how to discharge our mandate as given by the people of Kenya under the Constitution.” Maraga did not name Uhuru , but it was clear he was the target of the statement. The President lashed out at the Judiciary within hours of the ruling, describing Maraga and his colleagues as “thugs” and “crooks,” marking the lowest and crudest remarks against the justices only to outdo himself with his declaration: “We have a problem and we must fix it.” Although the president has not taken any action covertly to “fix” CJ Maraga and the Court, recent flagrant in-your-face disregard for court orders reminiscent of the August 8 election, a memo addressed to the Supreme Court by someone who clearly did not write nor understand the content of the memo, and other tale-tell signs point in the direction this “fix” is in the offing. Were that to happen, it would be the worst stain on the President’s legacy. He should be wise to avoid such and we’re very hopeful he will, for we know, much as many may not believe, Uhuru does care about his legacy. He’s better off building it by making sure our institutions are strengthened, not destroyed and put a stop to disregarding court orders immediately.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States