University lecturers in seven medical schools will down their tools from tomorrow if the government does not pay them Sh788 million allowances backdated to January last year . The 605 lecturers are demanding the medical risk allowances and the emergency call allowance awarded to doctors last year after a three-month strike. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union said they met the Inter-Public University Council Consultative Forum last week to resolve the dispute. “We made some progress but so far we have not heard again from IPUCCF. We hope this issue can be resolved but if not our members will just proceed on strike on Thursday,” said KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga. Read: Doctor lecturers to strike on February 15 over unpaid allowances The strike is expected to ground seven medical schools, including Kenyatta National Hospital which heavily relies on medics from the University of Nairobi. Other institutions to be affected are Eldoret's Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, Coast General Hospital, Rift Valley General Hospital, and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital in Kisumu and Kiambu Hospital. IPUCCF deals with management of public universities and constituent colleges including terms of service and staff welfare. The Star learned vice-chancellors from the affected universities met again on Friday, but had not reached an agreement yesterday. The demanded allowances - medical risk allowances and the emergency call allowances – are usually payable to medics in active clinical practice because of the nature of their work. It was awarded last year through a return-to-work agreement by the KMPDU, the county governments and the ministry of health. The government said the allowances were only meant for doctors employed directly by the Ministry of Health, the county governments or the hospitals. But doctors employed by universities say “traditionally” medical lecturers also received allowances payable to those working in hospitals. Oluga said medical lecturers and other doctors were awarded a pay rise uniformly in 1994, 2003 and 2011. “It is our plea that the clinical service allowances, namely medical risk allowances and emergency call, be forthwith paid in arrears to end further discrimination of doctors working in public universities,” he said. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki asked doctor's union to stop the planned strike and instead negotiate with universities, who employ the medical lecturers. "We call upon KMPDU to allow dialogue to solve the disputes in the health sector, let's do things differently, " Kariuki said. If the new allowances are granted, a professor will earn an extra Sh70,000 and a senior lecturer Sh86,000 more every month. The University Academic Staff Union also supports the lecturers. “Uasu supports this stand because they are our members, but they are also professionals on their own right,” University of Nairobi Uasu representative George Omondi said.  Click here for the latest political news 