Three matches in seven days seems to have taken a toll on Kenyan Premier League champions as they surrendered their one hundred percent win-record in the new campaign following their goalless stalemate with Tusker at the Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos yesterday. The two points dropped will matter little at this stage for K’Ogalo as they are top of the table with 10 points from four matches and a superior goal difference to Mathare United’s. With an eye on the crucial matter of a do or die Caf Champions League home leg against Esperance of Tunisia next week on Wednesday, Gor coach Dylan Kerr, as expected, reshuffled his pack with Meddie Kagere given a timely breather as Ephraim Guikan and George Odhiambo were tasked to get the goals. Tusker, who were fresh from getting their first league victory under Sam Timbe last weekend, stuck with the players who had made the win over Nzoia United possible. Hashim Sempala manned the midfield with former Sony Sugar duo of Boniface Muchiri and Amos Asembeka pulling the creative strings. Gor started the much promisingly of the two sides with Humphrey Mieno and Lawrence Juma bossing the midfield. Clearcut chances were, however, few in the opening quarter. Ivorian Guikan could have given Gor the lead in the 30th minute when he was picked out by Cercidy Okeyo but veteran shotstopper Duncan Ochieng anticipated his shot and saved smartly. The second half was a cagey affair with the brewers finding joy down the right wing with Muchiri and Asembeka taking time to torment makeshift left back Charles Momanyi but their final passes towards Timothy Otieno let them down. Sensing that Gor was there for the taking, the brewers introduced Matthew Odongo and Jackson Macharia in quick succession to provide fresh ammunition to test the Gor rearguard with Robert Achema and Asembeka making way. It was Gor, however, who curved the better chances with Guikan guilty of a poor first touch when picked out by Mieno 15 minutes from time. That miss summarised an afternoon in Machakos where neither team wanted to lose.