Coastal singer Nyota Ndogo has not released any music of late but has promised to release a song soon. Meanwhile, the Kuna watu an viatu hitmaker is busy doing a housing project in Voi. "I had planned to release songs before Valentine’s but I’m a bit busy for now. I’m constructing rentals and as soon as I’m done, I will go back to music," she said. Nyota Ndogo is among the few celebrities who engage their trolls. Unlike singer Akothee, who insults her critics, Nyota takes every criticism in her stride. "Fans mean a lot to me. I always engage them, positively though, because they are the reason I get paid. Without them, all my shows would flop. Celebrities should learn to accept criticism," she said. Recently, the multi-talented artiste was trolled after she shared a make-up gone wrong pic on social. A follower by the name Esha.salim commented: "Huyo diye alikupaka wakati wa waharusi." Another one added, "Hivi huwa wanajifunzia usoni kwako?? Weusi wako unahtaji makeup kidogo tu." But Nyota Ndogo has developed a thick skin and she’s never going to let negativity distract her. She said she didn’t feel intimidated and humiliated like she did during her wedding. "I trended because of make-up fail on my wedding. I was insulted but I wasn’t bothered. I was reading the comments and laughing at the keyboard warriors who attacked me. This time round (the recent make-up fail), I never expected people to talk. My make-up was done by a professional artist, and I wanted to showcase her work, only to be mocked online." Nyota Ndogo said she is a happy mother after her son joined form 1 recently. She also showered her husband with praises, saying she will be travelling soon to see him. "I miss my son a lot because he was the only child for a long time before I gave birth to my second born, who is now three years old. I went for visiting day and I was happy with how the school has taken care of him. His schoolmates kept on calling me by my stage name, yet I expected them to refer to me as a mother," she laughed.