The Tourism ministry has unveiled a blueprint that aims to transform Kenya into an innovative and vibrant destination in 12 years' time. The National Tourism Blueprint 2030 is anchored on product development, marketing, tourism investment promotion, and infrastructure. It aims to increase the number of foreign and local tourists to 30.4 million over the projected period and increase the number of direct jobs in the tourism industry to 561,800. Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala said Kenya’s tourism sector must adapt and innovate in line with global trends in order to increase its contribution to the economy. "Our first priority must be to fix and refresh our tourism product and re-invigorate our engagement with our current markets – both local and international." "We must introduce new products and expand into new source markets to attract new and more existing visitors," Balala said on Monday. He spoke at the opening of a two-day National Tourism Stakeholder Forum to discuss the transformative journey for the tourism sector. He challenged the Tourism Association to move away from banking on exhibitions to attract tourists and embrace digital marketing strategies. "We have done a whole analysis of all exhibitions in the world and we know which is valuable which is not valuable…but business does not come from exhibitions." Balala further asked stakeholders to take advantage of Kenya Airways launching direct flights to New York to open up the US market to Kenya. "Let’s partner to address that market. It’s highly potential and it’s our number one market." He said the sector can also diversify and take advantage of cruise ships once the new terminal is ready by June. "I am going to appoint a consultant to take us through a whole strategy on how to benefit from cruise ships," Balala said. Read: [VIDEO] Tourism sector rosy as fourth cruise ship docks Betty Radier, the Kenya Tourism Board chief executive, said the board has identified 14 strategic initiatives that will be implemented under the country’s tourism marketing strategy which was developed last year. Top among the initiatives is the implementation of a portfolio of Top, Signature and Quality Assured experiences to deliver an exceptional tourist experience to all visitors coming to Kenya. "Kenya’s safari, beach and marine, nature, culture and heritage and city tourism, as well as business tourism will be revamped and transformed into new products and authentic experiences that offer value to visitors coming into the country." She added: "The Magical Kenya brand will be known for more than just beach and safari but also for adventure trips - be it hiking, trekking or mountain climbing - nature and culture, beach holidays, special interest niches such as bird watching, athletics, golf, water sports, and special celebrations." The forum is being held against the backdrop of the stellar performance recorded by Kenya’s tourism industry in 2017. The sector recorded a double-digit rise in earnings just under Sh120 billion in revenue receipts, a 20.3 per cent growth in revenue compared to Sh99.69 billion recorded in 2016. The strong growth was underpinned by a 9.8 per cent growth in total international arrivals by air, sea and cross border in 2017 to 1,474,671 compared to 1,342,899 arrivals in 2016. Click here for the latest political news