Police failure to act on complaints from members of the public and misconduct tops the list of the officers' ineffectiveness and malpractices, a latest oversight report says. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority report covering January to June 2017 shows that cases of police inaction stood at 311 while 135 case of misconduct were reported. Cases of abuse of office through corruption and extortion stood at 95, assault (91), harassment of the public (85), arbitrary arrest and unlawful detention (74) and shootings (47). Other cases are threats to the public at 28, deaths (25), improper investigations (17), malicious prosecution and dissatisfaction with court processes (13), destruction of property (seven) and obstructing victims from accessing justice (six), among other cases. "Compared to the previous reporting period, there was an overall 19.2 per cent decrease in the number of complaints reported," the report tabled in Parliament on Thursday reads. "This is also reflected in in the decrease of various types of complaints reported except for improper investigations which increased by 14 cases." IPOA chairman Macharia Njeru disclosed in the report that men were the most complainants recording 61 per cent followed by women at 14 per cent. "The largest percentage of complaints were directly from members of the public. The data reveals that 617 of the complainants were male while a paltry 146 were female," Njeru said. A total of 137 investigations in 30 counties had been completed during the period under review. At least 64 per cent of the 47 counties in the country recorded cases of police misconduct and injustices that require the probe. Nairobi recorded highest cases of complaints at (34) followed by Meru (13), Kericho (9), Machakos and Mombasa (8 each). Kiambu, Narok and Nyeri recorded 7 cases each while Wajir, Uasin Gishu, Makueni and Kwale recorded the least complaints. IPOA also received complaints from state and non-state officers, police officers and the media. Complaints institutions in the country reported to IPOA were 208 while from unknown sources were 42. Njeru points out that IPOA had received a total of 8,042 complaints as at 30th June 2017 since its establishment in 2012. "Cumulatively, the Authority has completed 593 investigations since inception," he says. Also read: Our husbands, sons on the run due to police brutality – women More on this: Post-election deaths raise questions over police brutality Click here for the latest political news