The Opposition will ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta bows out like South Africa's Jacob Zuma, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. Orengo said pressure and Kenyans' resistance to Jubilee Party will "automatically push Uhuru out of power in the coming weeks, just like Zuma". "Nasa is going to apply some of South Africa's tricks for Uhuru to voluntarily exit the presidential seat in weeks’ time, for the installation of Raila [Odinga] as the country’s President and not the People’s President," he said on Sunday. Zuma had refused to resign but he later heeded orders by the ruling African National Congress (ANC) to bring an end to his nine scandal-plagued years in power. More on this: South African President Jacob Zuma resigns Orengo noted nobody will force the President out of office and that he will leave voluntarily based on circumstances. Raila's oath-taking was a good move, he said, adding he was only waiting for the instruments of power. The Opposition leader's self-inauguration was termed symbolic as no instruments of power were handed over. Regarding these, Orengo said they will be handed to the ODM party boss and Nasa principal "in broad daylight after the peaceful exit of President Uhuru and his cohorts". “We have crafted strategies that will see Raila ascend to the throne of power and later issued with instruments of power,” the Senator who is also a lawyer said at Waga in Gem constituency on Sunday. “Where is the difference between Uhuru and former South African President Jacob Juma who vacated office within 48 hours despite being the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces?" The legislator asked Kenyans to trust the Opposition coalition as it will fulfill its promise for them to settle in 'Canaan'. He said Raila’s presidential steps are unstoppable and that once he takes the baton, he will ensure Kenyans reaps the fruits of good leadership. “All regions will prosper economically since Raila was the brainchild of devolution that is almost dying under the leadership of Jubilee." The Senator noted tha tAttorney General Githu Muigai's resignation was "just a tip of the iceberg" in Jubilee's fall. “Githu purported that Raila committed treason by taking the oath as the People’s President. I advise him to interpret the law correctly or go back to school. He has finally opted for a refresher programme." Details: [VIDEO] Attorney General Githu Muigai resigns, Uhuru nominates Justice Paul Kihara Also read: Is Uhuru targetting Supreme Court? Raila announced he would be sworn-in on November 28, 2017, as Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto took their oaths for their second terms. The event had been postponed several times and there were worries that violence would erupt but this was not the case. Following the self-inauguration, the government launched a crackdown on Nasa's National Resistance Movement. Governor Cornel Rasanga, who was with Orengo as well as Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, said Nasa should work on a fine mechanism to remove Uhuru from power. “President Uhuru risks losing the presidential seat to Raila should strategies crafted by Nasa be adopted and executed in a more organised way," he noted. Some politicians have advised that Kenya move forward as a prolonged political stalemate could be disastrous. Earlier today, Alliance for Real Change leader Abduba Dida commended Uhuru and Raila on their conduct amid the crisis. He asked Uhuru to stop the chest thumping and listen to Raila as the latter knows what he is doing. More on this: Only God will stir Kenya out of Uhuru-Raila duel, says Abduba Dida Click here for the latest political news