The Law Society of Kenya yesterday called off a planned five-day courts boycott. The boycott named the ‘Yellow Ribbon Campaign’ was to put pressure on the government to respect the rule of law and court orders. The lawyers in a statement on Saturday had said the boycott would start today and end on Friday. They had said only election petitions would not be affected by the boycott. Read: Lawyers to boycott court, protest State's disregard of court orders But yesterday, LSK president Isaac Okero said they called off the boycott “for further consultations”. He said the lawyers will, however, wear yellow ribbons from today until the government respects the rule of law. They will also start peaceful protests on Thursday.                The lawyers on Saturday said the ‘Yellow Ribbon Campaign’ is a multi-pronged campaign coordinated by the LSK Council and its branches to ensure Kenyans access justice. “Disregard of the law leads to anarchy, where people are a law unto themselves and chaos reigns,” Okero had said. The government has been accused of blatantly disregarding court orders. Last week, police ignored five court orders to produce deported politician Miguna Miguna and to restore signals of three leading TV stations. KTN, NTV and Citizen TV station were switched off on January 30 during the swearing-in ceremony of NASA leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President.  Miguna was deported to Canada a week later. He administered an oath to Raila. remind state to obey orders Chief Justice David Maraga has also asked all government officials to respect court orders, saying it is a constitutional responsibility. The LSK has also condemned the government and said the planned peaceful protests are aimed at reminding the government that obeying courts is not optional. Read: All Kenyans must follow court orders, Maraga says after Miguna drama “The Society shall institute proceedings on the shutdown of broadcast services, in which it shall seek, in addition to appropriate orders and declarations, personal liability against the state and public officers who are and have acted with impunity,” Okero said. The LSK will present the Yellow Ribbon petition to the Chief Justice, the Office of the President and the House Speakers. “During the march, members shall appear fully robed and wearing yellow ribbons,” Okero said. The first Yellow Ribbon Campaign was 16 years ago when lawyers were protesting against obstacles that hampered judicial reforms.  Click here for the latest political news