The national government will build two more county headquarters for Lamu at a cost of Sh300 million. Lamu will make history by being the first county to have three headquarters. Presently, the headquarters is in Mokowe, two others are planned in Faza and Hindi. The new headquarters will be completed by the end of this year. Previously, the Mokowe headquarters was in Lamu island Speaking after paying a courtesy visit to Lamu Governor Fahim Twaha in Mokowe yesterday, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development PS Paul Maringa said they state will implement the plan with the county. State to pay 70 per cent Maringa said the money for the project has already been set aside. He said the national government would foot 70 per cent of the bill and the county government will contribute 30 per cent. Mokowe was completed in July last year at a cost Sh220 million. Maringa said the reason for the additional two headquarters was to ensure service is decentralised. “We had a very fruitful discussion with Governor Twaha. Apart from the already existing county headquarters here at Mokowe, we have agreed to have two others,” he said. “We have ensured all designs are in line with the culture and faith of the people in this region. So don’t be confused if you see the structures looking like mosques and old Lamu buildings.” The PS said they expect to sign an agreement between the State Department of Public Works and the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development by the end of the month. Twaha pledged to support the national government projects in the county. “I am happy about the projects in Lamu. We will work together with the national government for the benefit of the people,” he said. “The primary purpose of the MoU is to cement the constitutional guidelines that require when we set up county governments, the national government has the responsibility to build capacity in the respective counties,” Maringa said. qualified surveyors, engineers “The ministry wants to boost the county’s capacity. In three years, Lamu will have its own qualified quantity surveyors, electrical, civil and mechanical engineers as well as local architects.” He said the MoU will enable Lamu set up good operating systems to train its people to enhance technical and administrative supervision