Groundbreaking for the Likoni Cable car express has been postponed from next month to May because of undisclosed delays at the Treasury and the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. The Public-Private Partnership project is being financed through an equity fund ( 60 per cent) and loans from investors( 40 ). The Sh5.8 billion project is expected to be completed in 18 months and will serve 300,000 locals who cross the channel every day. The project will kick off with 22 cable cars which will carry 38 passengers per cabin, 11,000 commuters per hour in both directions, and have a capacity to transport more than 180,000 commuters per day. About 6,000 cars cross the channel daily. The Likoni and Mtongwe channels are currently the only links to the South Coast by road. The KFS hopes cable cars will resolve the transport hitches encountered with ferries. PAY TO USE Locals will pay between Sh20 and Sh50 for a one-way trip to cross the channel using the cable cars. The ferry will still remain free of charge. Unlike the ferries which take more than five minutes to cross the channel after about 20 minutes delay, the cable car system will connect either side of the Likoni Channel crossing in three minutes at the maximum. They will operate throughout the week. operations start in 2020 On February 8, Austrian technology company Doppelmayr Group won a contract to set up the Sh5.8 billion Likoni cable car project. The firm said locals can expect to start using the cars in 2020. With increasing human-vehicle traffic at the channel during peak hours, the Kenya Ferry Service said it plans to build Mtongwe bridge to decongest the area. Concerns have been raised about the relevance of the cable cars once the bridge is built. There are also questions on the feasibility of the project with the fast expansion of the Mombasa port, which is expected to increase cargo volume by 400 per cent from the current 20 million tonnes handled at the facility annually. Additionally, the creation of a Vision 2030 Special Economic Zone in Mombasa modelled after Shenzhen - the Chinese metropolis - would result in about nine million people working and living in the area. TOURISM ATTRACTION KFS managing director Baraka Gowa said the cable cars will be a tourist attraction. The project comes at a time the government is planning to build a resort city in the area as part of its efforts to double tourist arrivals to three million visitors annually under the Vision 2030 blueprint.   