It is a useless Bill. It is basically a politicised Bill. It is a Bill that is intended to fight the Bill we have proposed as the Thirdway Alliance. For you to amend the Constitution, you must provide a rationale and tell the country what you want to achieve. It is basically a sponsored Bill to undermine the position of Thirdway Alliance to amend the size of Parliament. For the Thirdway Alliance, we have stated the simple points why our Bill is important. In our Bill, we want to reduce the size of Parliament. Our formula is simple and straightforward: We want to reduce the constituencies from 290 to 47, where we elect one woman and one man into the National Assembly. We have also proposed six nominated seats for special interest groups. That is the National Assembly. For the Senate, we want to elect one man and one woman. That will address the equality and fair representation factors. We want to reduce the cost of Parliament from Sh35 billion to Sh5 billion. We want to address the issue of gender equality. We are also addressing the cost of efficiency in Parliament. Why would one want to increase the size of Parliament when the current team rarely attends House Sessions! Thirdway also wants to strengthen devolution so that more resources go to the people. We also want to strengthen the Senate so that the people who go to that House are the crème de la crème of society. You can see in Clause Six they have replicated what the Thirdway Alliance has proposed. And because they are not the originators of the idea, so they bring in questions on nominations. For Thirdway, we want to abolish nominations. We want to abolish the issue of woman representatives. We want to elevate the Senate to an Upper House with veto powers as demonstrated in other democracies. This Bill is an afterthought and meant to serve other interests. It is also meant to undermine the proposal by the Thirdway Alliance. The sponsor of the Bill is a Jubilee guy. I don’t know whether the entire Jubilee members are behind him. But I suspect that someone who has an interest in the 2022 polls is behind the Bill. We don’t need a prime minister if we have 47 governors. They have taken care of everything. The writer is the Thirdway Alliance party leader       