In the last 25 years or so, many books and journals have been written on leadership; many seminars, conferences and workshops on leadership have been conducted across the world; many websites set up and degree programmes are offered by universities. I am told that even here in Kenyatta University, every graduating student takes a leadership course under the growing leaders’ programme to give them a competitive edge over their peers in the job market. But in spite of these interventions, the world still faces a leadership crisis. Leaderships is on trial, as it were. At a time when the world has made mind-boggling advances in science, technology and in the arts, it is ironical that a confidence gap in leadership is strongly manifest throughout the world. Leadership is seen, increasingly, as non-responsive, non-imaginative, and generally selfish. Leaders are not seen as sufficiency compelling in their visions. Is it because of the credibility deficit in their character, conduct or confidence? Could it be that the approaches to leadership training and the basic assumptions about what leadership entails have been erected on a faulty foundation? Could it be that we need to rethink and redefine leadership and evaluate our leadership goals? I am happy to note that these are among the pertinent concerns that will be addressed in this workshop. Ladies and Gentlemen, This conference is themed, “Workshop on Being a Leader and the Effective Exercise of Leadership: An Ontological/ Phenomenological Model.” What Leadership Model are the organizers of this Workshop looking for in focussing on “Ontology”? Ontology, as a general subject is concerned with the nature of being of anything. The dictionary defines it as a set of concepts and categories in a subject area or domain that shows their properties and the relations between them. When you escalate that examination the ontology of a leader and the effective exercise of the leadership model, you are talking of the nature and function of being for a leader and the actions of effective leadership. The ontology of a leader therefore is the “Being” of a human being. What one’s being is shapes one’s perceptions, emotions, creative imagination, thinking, planning, and consequently one’s actions in the exercise of leadership. You’re talking of being a leader and the effective exercise of leadership as one’s natural self-expression, which does not come from just learning and trying to emulate the characteristics or styles of noteworthy leaders, or learning what effective leaders do and trying to emulate them. You are most certainly not talking of a leader from merely being in a leadership position, or position of authority, important as all those may be in the shaping of an effective leader. Most leaders are managers of other people’s properties, physical or intellectual properties. They’re managers of properties they have no proprietary interest in. They are therefore trustees or stewards. The goal of property owners who employ managers is earning of profits, and, in most cases, big time profits. If I understand it well then, the organizers of this conference are directing us to a leadership style that is different from the traditional ones we are used to. They are looking for a leader who, in their book, Creating Leaders: An Ontological/Phenomenological Model, Werner Erhard, Michael Jensen, and Kari Granger, describe as one “who is not ‘thinking’ as a leader but being a leader as a natural form of self-expression.” One who “doesn’t turn on or off a leadership switch, but responds and acts spontaneously and intuitively as a leader to any situation that requires the exercise of leadership.” They are looking for a leadership quality that’s centered on the nature of one’s being. The nature of one’s inner being that will effortlessly find expression or manifest itself in one’s deportment and actions. That’s not all. The organizers of this conference are looking for a leadership quality that comes from one’s being that will not only be effortlessly manifest but also one that will be phenomenally effective and therefore easy to achieve the target of profits, and great profits at that, as well as one that will serve as a role model. I want to posit that the inner being of a person relates to one’s value system. One can be a great leader without any value system and make great profits for oneself or for one’s employer through corruption. That’s not a leadership style worth emulating that this Workshop is interested in. The goal of this Workshop is to get views for the development of a natural leadership quality or style that is not only remarkable, outstanding or profound, but also one that can stand out as a role model. I want to posit that such leadership is one that is, first and foremost, grounded on a value system that fully embraces integrity, humility and respect for others. “Integrity” denotes honesty and moral uprightness. In his book, Developing the Leaders Around You, John C. Maxwell defines “Integrity” as “the trustworthiness and solid character at consistent words and walk.” Integrity comes from a congruence between thoughts, feelings, words, and actions - when all that you are and do spring from your core values. True leaders demonstrate integrity by their actions. Mahatma Gandhi was one of the greatest examples of integrity we have seen in modern times, and the many moving stories about his life demonstrate the power of teaching this character trait by example. Men and women of integrity are those whose word can be depended on in any situation. Trust and confidence are the foundation of every business relationship they engage in. In my view that is a value system of great, if not absolute, honesty. As we know, in the present world, teamwork is inevitable. The organizers of this Workshop are looking for a leadership quality that has not only what John Maxwell calls the ability “to influence others”, but also a leadership that the late Stephen R. Covet in his book Primary Greatness, characterized as having the ability of “communicating to another person their worth and potential so clearly that they are inspired to see it in themselves." The organizers of this Workshop are looking for leadership that has the humility to see value in others and patiently seeks to nurture and unleash their potential. That is a leadership quality that has respect for others, irrespective of their positions in society or the institution they are working for. True leadership is not only necessary in private enterprises. True leadership is even more critical in the management of public affairs. In other words, the character traits of integrity, humility and respect for others define the nature and effectiveness of service delivery to the public. Why is this the case? One or two illustrations will suffice. A few leaders are entrusted with power and authority that they are supposed to exercise for the common good of their communities or countries. Here in Kenya, the Constitution provides that all sovereign power belongs to the people who have delegated its exercise to the three arms of Government and constitutional commissions. Time does not allow me to examine the kind of power and authority entrusted to each organ of State. So please allow me to briefly illustrate the kind of leadership that I think this Workshop is seeking to manage the authority or power entrusted to me as the Chief Justice of the Republic of Kenya: The exercise of judicial authority. The Judiciary, as one of the three arms of Government, is the custodian of the Constitution and the rule of law. The Judicial authority entrusted to the Judiciary of interpreting the Constitution and other statutory authority as well as ensuring that the rule of law is maintained in the conduct of societal affairs, both public and private, requires its exercise in the prism of the national values enumerated in Article 10 of the 2010 Constitution. These values include patriotism, national unity, sharing and devolution of power, the rule of law, democracy and public participation. They include human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality and human rights. They also include good governance, integrity, transparency, accountability and sustainable development. In other words, the Kenyan Constitution requires of me, first, as a Judge, to be a man of integrity and to resolve the disputes placed before me in a transparent and accountable manner. These are the self-same values that, as I have said, this Workshop is seeking to instill. In addition, as the Chief Justice and leader of the Judiciary, I understand the Constitution to require me to provide servant leadership grounded on the said national values, the foremost of which, for the purposes of this Workshop, is integrity. In other words, I should provide a leadership that is honest with the Kenyan people; a leadership that will earn me the respect of my fellow Judges and Judicial Officers; a leadership that will engender public confidence in the discharge of the Judicial mandate entrusted to me. From our recent past history, it is common knowledge that some of the disputes brought to our courts involve matters of great national importance; matters which, if not carefully and, in my view, prayerfully handled, can tip the balance of national security and plunge this country into chaos and total anarchy. I want to posit that the leadership demanded of the Chief Justice of this country, and I suppose of many other countries, is not one by the faint-hearted. It must be a leadership that his or her country can identify with and have faith in. As such it cannot be a leadership that preaches water but drinks wine. For me it will not only be a travesty of justice but also a great betrayal of the trust the Kenyan people have bestowed upon me if I were to decide any case on considerations other than on the evidence presented before me and the law applicable. As humans we are by nature not honest people, I want to posit therefore that leadership based on integrity cannot come from the prowess of a mere mortal. Such leadership, in my humble view, can only come from one, whatever his religion, in the innermost of which is the fear of God; one who constantly seeks to do the will of God in the discharge of his or her mandate. A few public leaders are also entrusted with enormous public resources that they are required to efficiently manage for their countries. It is common knowledge that corruption is pandemic in Kenya. Public resources are shamelessly being plundered by leaders without as much as giving thought to the poor who are in dire need of them. As a result, hundreds of thousands are dying of hunger; hundreds of thousands are dying of diseases that are not only preventable but also curable. Why is this so and yet Kenya is reputed to be 80% Christian? Why is this the case and yet some of the Kenyan leaders who are Christians are here in this auditorium? Tell you what, we are Christians only by profession. The current situation is only going to change if you and I can get converted and be true Christians. I cannot think of a more urgent time than now when “[t]he greatest want of” Kenya has ever reached the stage where, as Ellen G. White, one of the most prolific Christian writers, said, “Is the want of men [read and women] who will not be bought or sold, men who in their inmost souls are true and honest, men who do not fear to call sin by its right name, men whose conscience is as true to duty as the needle to the pole, men who will stand for the right though the heavens fall ...” As this workshop therefore seeks to train leaders who will inspire confidence and profoundly impact societal affairs, it should also emphasize the fact that leadership is not inherited. Great leadership is a result of an avowal to do what our respective consciences, grounded on the virtue of integrity, tell us is right. As the writer I have just quoted added, the noble character required of great leaders “… is not the result of accident; it is not due to special favours or endowments of providence. A noble character is the result of self-discipline, of the subjection of the lower to the higher nature - the surrender of self for the service of love to God and man.” Some of us are about to exit the stage. This Workshop should also train for posterity. This Workshop should also emphasize the need to inculcate in the leaders’ children and mentees, the value system that will achieve the desired goals of sustainable development. That, as leaders, we can only achieve if we live out the values we endeavor to pass on. We cannot make any headway if, as I have already said, we purport to preach water while drinking wine. I thank my parents, especially my mother, who inculcated in me the importance of honesty. One day in the early 1960s, I accompanied her to the Sironga shopping centre in Nyamira to go and collect her earnings from the pyrethrum crop. After collecting it, it was about KSh5, we walked to the shop of a man from my village and I was surprised when my mother handed over to him the entire sum together with the pay slip. That man, I cannot forget him, looked at the pay slip, took Sh3 and gave back the balance to my mother, remarking that on payday no one should go home empty-handed. On the way home, I asked my mother why she handed her entire earnings and even the pay slip to the shopkeeper. She informed me that she had borrowed more than Sh10 from that man to pay our school fees and she did not want him to think she failed to repay her loan in full because she withheld back some money. She advised me that if I wanted people to trust me, I should not only be honest with them but I should also demonstrate that honesty. That virtue, which got engrained in my mind, is what I later found to be a mantra in the practice of law that: “Justice should not only be done but be seen to be done.” We can only succeed to pass on the virtue of integrity to others if we, ourselves, can live it out in whatever we do or say. With these few remarks, it is my earnest prayer and hope that this Workshop will be a resounding success. THANK YOU Chief Justice Maraga made these remarks in his keynote address at the Being A Leader workshop at Kenyatta University on Monday this week.