The opposition will do anything, including pirating TV and radio stations, to frustrate the Jubilee administration's operations, Eseli Simiyu has said. The Tongaren MP claimed Nasa will consider pirating should the government keep three national TV stations off air. He said the pirated stations will be used to mobilise supporters to participate in anti-government activities. “We are prepared and ready to do so at anytime should the ban on TV stations continue. We will not allow Jubilee to abuse the rights and freedoms of our people as enshrined in the constitution," he said in Soy on Friday. Nasa principals are Raila Odinga (ODM), Kalonzo musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). They have condemned the shutdown but have not spoken of pirating TV and radio stations. A pirated television or radio station is one that operates without a licence, therefor illegally. Its signals are received especially when the country of transmission is the same as the country of reception. Eseli further warned that Kenya will become an autocratic state if citizens do not fight for their rights. He reiterated that they do not recognise president Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party administration. “This is an intolerant government so Kenyans should be warned that we are heading backwards and that we are in trouble. We have to come out and fight for our rights." Muslim preachers and imams have also faulted the government over the shutdown of KTN, NTV and Citizen for airing the 'self-inauguration' of National Super Alliance leader Raila Odinga. Rift Valley chairman Abubakar Bini said it was a clear sign that the government was reversing gains made through tough struggles. Bini warned Kenya will turn authoritarian if such trends by the government are allowed to continue. He said the stations should be allowed to operate freely without interference. “We are on the wrong path and this is not acceptable. The freedom to information is a right that should not be curtailed by the state." More on this: Kenya on slippery media freedom path, Uhuru must act - HRW Also read: Gideon Moi condemns media shut down Click here for the latest political news