MPs from the North Rift region are calling for an indepth probe into causes of banditry in the Kerio Valley for a permanent solution to be found. Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar and MPs Vincent Tuwei (Mosop) and Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany) have said innocent people, especially women and children, are suffering in the Kerio Valley, where they have been displaced from their homes. The banditry problem had continued for many years. Kamar also wants leaders from the affected counties to dialogue and help end cattle rustling. “We have to ensure we probe the real causes so that we can be in a position to come up with lasting solutions, instead of having it going on for many decades without a way forward,” Kamar said. Speaking to journalists in Eldoret on Monday, the senator said schools and many other projects in the region had collapsed and this would only serve to aggravate the terrible situation in the area. “We also need the leaders from these counties to meet and dialogue because there can be no solution if people don’t talk about the problems they face,” she said. Kutuny and Tuwei separately told the Star that banditry is not acceptable. “We cannot keep on denying children chance to go to school because of retrogressive practices such as banditry,” Kutuny said. Governor Jackson Mandago has indicated that his counterparts from the eight counties in the region will soon meet and discuss the insecurity problem. Mandago said they would involve all the leaders and community representatives. Mandago, who is also the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc, said bandintry in the Kerio Valley and other parts of the North Rift has scared away investors. “As leaders of these counties, we are in discussion to see how we will end the problem in Kerio Valley,” Mandago said. Kamar said banditry had gone on for many decades causing development activities in the region to stall. Mandago spoke when he met county executives from the Noreb region in Eldoret town. The county boss also met with officials from Safaricom and urged them to help improve communication network in Kerio Valley as one way to deal with insecurity.