Auditor general reports are, I find, generally quite good value. Remember Kenya’s auditor general, Edward Ouko, helpfully pointing out that over 90 per cent of government payments are not properly accounted for? That does not necessarily mean that they have not been made at all, just that nobody really knows where the bulk of that money went. I just read through the news on the 2017 report of Uganda’s auditor general. Probably no great surprise here either if you have followed Uganda for a while: The report lists weaknesses in public institutions including outright corruption, poor planning and budget performance, missed targets, and unapproved expenditures. The range of organisations flagged in the report is broad, from the revenue authority to the Ministry of Finance and several other ministries, the National Agricultural Advisory Services, the Uganda Electricity Generation Company, but also public universities and local governments. This is not an abstract issue as it obviously has real-life consequences: government organisations are not able to fulfill their mandate so services to the public are not provided. In the URA, these weaknesses mean that revenue collection is affected. The report also drew attention to domestic arrears – basically, government not paying its bills: They had risen from UGX1.3trn in fiscal 2015/16 to UGX2.9trn in fiscal 2016/17, i.e. they more than doubled in two years. In the 2017/18 budget, government had only allocated UGX300m to service this debt. So more than 90 per cent of what government owes is just rolled over. I’d also been very intrigued to read about a report analysing public sector spending that the president had commissioned from the Internal Security Organisation (ISO) last year – not quite their usual remit, but intriguing nevertheless, especially because the whole mess was made quite public: The report found a lot of wasteful spending on e.g. travel, workshops and consultancies. Often those consultancies were contracted to civil servants who used them to top up their income. And there was a significant degree of overlap between ministries and government agencies. Sounds familiar? And then take the recent news of the arrest of the leader of the ‘2012 Boda Boda’ group, which made the media take a closer look at the group that had long served as a vigilante group, co-operating with the police in squashing urban protests, in particular opposition protests. Convenient, no? So there are a lot of public organisations, and the government spends a lot of money on them – but you can see how hollowed out the whole system has become, and how this affects the provision of public services. Don’t hold your breath that Mr Life President can fix this – or wants to.   