In the 21st century, we’ve
been sold the idea that success is everything. Work hard, make money and flaunt
it all on social media. Now, people feel they must become successful or die
trying. We have the impression that success determines a person’s worth. This
culture has its challenges. Often, entrepreneurs get to the end of
the success trail to realize that business is much more than becoming
successful. The art of enterprise is made up of many elements of which success
is one. The idea that matures in the entrepreneur’s mind to become an
established business comes with so much history, struggles, victories, loses,
fights, triumphs, people, places – and the list goes on. It is practically
unreasonable to minimize business to success alone. Beyond success, your business should
mean something. As you rise higher in business, you would find that many of the
people at the top have gone beyond the goal to be successful to seeking
significance. At that level,
business is primarily about meaning – waking up daily to merely chase cash
drops from the top of their priority list and now this group begins to look
beyond business gains. These leaders ensure that their business practices serve
a higher purpose. The good news is that you don’t have to
wait till you’re ultra-successful to do business with meaning. You can start
now. First, understand that success alone does not bring fulfillment. It’s one
reason people get successful and become depressed – what they expected to give
them a high became an anti-climax. But it doesn’t have to be that way. You can
be successful and fulfilled. That option exists. What does your business mean? What
higher purpose does it serve? What kind of impact does it make on society? How
is it positively changing people’s lives? How does your business help fulfill
people’s dreams? If your business shuts down today, would it matter? Will
people miss it? What problems does your business solve? What role does it play
in the bigger picture of people’s dreams? Business leaders need to find ways to
answer these questions as we advance into the 21st century. Now,
people want to know that the work that they do, matters. They want to know that
they spend their lives doing meaningful tasks. A great pay check is no longer
enough. People want to be part of something significant. And a business that
offers meaning as well as profits would play a significant role in the modern
global economy. email:
etoolbox@theyouideology.com   