Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka will today chair a crucial party meeting to chart the way forward after he skipped last week’s swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga. Kalonzo has been on the receiving end for skipping the oath which he was supposed to take together with Raila. Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate in last year’s presidential election in August. Today, the party’s National Executive Council, which is chaired by Kalonzo, will review the events of last week and come up with the way forward for the party. “We are meeting to strengthen NASA and build our push against a government that is not confident because it stole elections,” Makueni MP Dan Maanzo told the Star yesterday from the US. “What is happening in Kenya is not broadcast at home because they have switched off televisions, but the world is broadcasting. It is bad.” NOT TRUSTED The Star has established that Wiper will also try to ‘damage control’ with the hope of having the NASA fraternity to back Kalonzo in the 2022 presidential race. Kalonzo’s explanation for skipping the Tuesday swearing-in has not been comfortably received by Raila’s ODM party. ODM lawmakers have asked Raila to court friendship outside NASA, saying the other principals cannot be trusted for snubbing the oath ceremony. NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula also skipped the event. Majority of Wiper MPs and governors failed to show up for the event that was also boycotted by lawmakers from bot ANC and Ford Kenya. “The current government intimidation is a waste of time and public resources. Our agenda is to push good governance, electoral justice and the rule of law,” Maanzo said. A number of opposition MPs have demanded that Kalonzo take oath as the Deputy People’s President before he can be “forgiven for ditching Raila at the hour of need”. “Baba [Raila] has been sworn in, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula should not talk to us before Kalonzo takes the oath,” Uriri MP Mark Nyamita told an Opposition rally in Baba Dogo on Sunday. “Let them cleanse themselves first before we allow them near Raila,” added Mathare MP Antony Oluoch. KEPT IN THE DARK Last week, Wiper chairman Kivutha Kibwana said the oath plans were tightly guarded by ODM officials, who kept other NASA affiliate parties in the dark. “There was a time we asked for a NASA retreat because there were many who were unsettled. There are wrangles in NASA that need to be ironed out first,” Kibwana told a radio interview. Read:Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth Click here for the latest political news