A farmer in Siaya has invented fertiliser from water hyacinth collected in Lake Victoria. Twenty-nine-year-old Collins Omondi said it took him one-and-a- half years to come up with the invention. Omondi told the Star over the years he tried chemical fertilisers to increase his yields, but he did not get the desired results. He used up his savings hoping to flourish in farming, but he did not make a profit. The horticultural farmer grows tomatoes, sukumawiki and onions on five acres. Ditched chemical fertiliSer Omondi said at first he did not consider water hyacinth as a remedy for his fertiliser problems. However, he recalls his production increased when he started using hayacinth as fertiliser. “From that time I have never looked back. I no longer use chemical fertiliser and my production keeps on increasing season after season,” said Omondi. Omondi said hyacinth fertiliser improves soil fertility, unlike the chemical kind. Hyacinth contains phosphorus, nitrogen and potassium that are key nutrients for plant growth, he said. Omondi said hyacinth fertiliser is cheap and easily available to farmers since it is locally produced. He said it takes eight weeks to make water hyacinth fertiliser. “A farmer requires freshwater hyacinth which is mixed with the dry ones. Wood ash is added and left to decompose in a hole for eight weeks and it is ready for use,” he said. Omondi said his invention is killing two birds with one stone. Hyacinth is boosting his yields, and he is helping in the conservation of Lake Victoria. Omondi said water hyacinth has been a menace to fishermen. The government has been unable to tame the weed in the lake. If farmers can adopt the invention, water hyacinth will be a thing of the past in the lake in a few years. “An acre needs 1.5 tonnes of water hyacinth to make enough manure, so you can imagine if all farmers in the country could use this invention,” Omondi said. He was awarded by the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organization for his invention after emerging the best innovative farmer in Siaya.  