Kehancha town residents in Kuria West sub-county fear land grabbing after reports there are gold deposits in the area. There is fear of grabbing of public and idle land in the area. In the last one year, many miners have been flocking to the town in the hope they would hit the jackpot. The price of land has skyrocketed in the town by more than 150 per cent. An acre is now selling for between Sh350,000-Sh400,000 from Sh150,000 a year ago. The safety of buildings is at risk as miners dig tunnels and use explosives to extract the precious stone. Miners have been getting small amounts of gold and they say their lives have improved tremendously. A gram of gold goes at Sh3,200. Most miners said they turned to gold mining after the collapse of tobacco farming. "We had nowhere to turn to apart from gold mining. Tobacco is no more and we got the skills from other miners in Migori and Narok counties. It is lucrative,” miner Mathias Mwita said. Among affected lands is Kehancha Stadium, which has turned into a gold mine. Miners have pulled down the fence and boundary landmarks. They claim the land is endowed with the precious stone and allowing construction of the stadium will curtail their mining activity. "We appeal to the government to allow us to mine in this land. After all, the ground is riddled with tunnels underneath, which can lead to the collapse of the stadium," miner Pius Mwita said. Mwita said they have dug tunnels to access gold under the stadium. Miners say police and government officials have been extorting money and harassing them, instead of helping them acquire the land. "The government officials here keep extorting money from us because we are mining on government land. This is really hurting our business," Mwita said. The land in question is adjacent to the Kuria West sub-county administration offices. Several landlords have also complained that tenants are fleeing after cracks emerged from the walls due to the blasting. More than 590 students and teachers at Kehancha Mixed Secondary School in Kuria West sub-county are also at risk. Principal Daniel Mirumbe on Monday told the Star the mining is a disaster in waiting. He said several buildings, including dormitories, toilets and classrooms have developed cracks on the walls and foundation. “I'm worried that many tunnels dug underground by the gold miners might sink our school anytime," Mirumbe said. The school is half a kilometre from the Kehancha Stadium He said the school, which also grapples with lack of land, was forced to call off a planned storey building after engineers said the ground was not steady enough. “After gold and copper was discovered here the community has refused to sell land,” Mirumbe said. He said institution has been forced to rely on water from River Tebese, a kilometre away, after gold prospects in a nearby land rendered their 120 metres borehole useless. The borehole dried up and was contaminated by mercury and other chemicals. Mining ministry official Raymond Odanga said they are working closely with relevant authorities to resolve the land issue. "We are aware of the problem and shall soon relocate the miners to a much better land. We urge residents to be patient," he said. Odanga said the most affected areas are Namba, Kehancha Chini and Tebesi estates, where miners and landowners have clashed.  Click here for the latest political news