Last weekend of FebThuruari, aka the month of love and definitely loads of hate. The reason this month is the shortest is because love and hate can’t coexist for an extra 48/72 hours. A week after lovers exchanged flowers and chocolates the fighting resumed. Top on the list was Zari Hassan's official exit from her relationship with Diamond. This was followed by Zuma's resignation as South African President, then the guy who had been giving Uncle Bob sleepless nights when he was Pesident of Zimbabwe dies of cancer!!! As for the Ethiopian PM, his premature exit is as confusing as Igathe's resignation!!! The Raverend and the world is yet to get the full storo because days after the Ethiopian PM pulled an Igathe, he was nominated for the novel peace prize. Still on matters love and hate, Timmy and Otile's relationship culminated in a bromance. The two, who got into a very public and embarrassing fistfight during Vanessa Mdee’s private dinner at ROYA Entertainment CEO’s mansion, have now made up and have released a new song called TamTam. And in the Northern Hemisphere NRM General Double-M who got deported to Canada is now busy throwing shade at his fellow Resistors. With that kind of beef in the air #TheRaverend is happy to be single and just spectating all the drama . Two weekends ago I was in Rwanda for AY’s Rwandese traditional wedding, where I discovered the beauty of Kigali. This weekend it's off to Pombe Mapaddlocks' Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, for the Bongo version of the same wedding. I’m thinking to myself will I get lucky before we close this chapter of FebThuruari!!! Well, I have less than five days to know my fate in the live sector....ION all the clubs in my city are fully operational. From Space Lounge, for the guys who feel the urge to drink in open air en dance mpaka chee...B Club is also fully operational so if your feeling like a Champagne Papi en want to compete with West Africans be my guest. Kiza Lounge is also open for business in case you miss a table at B Club....For the crew that prefers to drink and eat nyama instead of going to church or spend time with loved ones on Sunday evening “Munaweza Kujiwekelea Pale Jiweke Tavern” then continue the party at the only club that has never en will never be on the Nema/county police radar 1824!!!! So as I party in Bongo now that their President is in Uganda, I kindly ask all my fellow party people to kindly party responsibly. Don’t drink and drive or dare smoke shisha in public.