Bosek questioned why his client has been denied police cash bail. The lawyer described the situation Keter is in as “a trying moment for him”. “This thing is weighing down on him,” he said, a statement his friend and Moiben MP Silas Tiren confirmed. Tiren visited Keter yesterday, saying the second-term Nandi Hills MP is putting on a brave face, but it is not a good situation. “Keter is doing well, though he is struggling to put on a brave face. We do not know why he has been arrested, apart from what the CBK has said. But I am here to ensure that he is taken to court tomorrow [today],” Tiren said. Read more : I’ve been set up, says Keter as he is arrested over fake T-bills Keter and Tiren fell out with the leadership of Jubilee after they defied a directive on how House leadership would be shared among the JP lawmakers. Keter successfully ran for chairman of the Labour Committee while Tiren was elected the chairman of the Agriculture committee. This was despite a preelection arrangement where there was a lineup. Keter was arrested for allegedly trading in forged Treasury Bills valued at Sh633 million. He was apprehended on Friday and was pictured surrounded by plainclothes officers, handcuffed alongside two others - Madat Chatur and Arthur Sakwa. Central Bank communications director Wallace Kantai said, “The three individuals have been arrested for presenting forged Treasury Bills purportedly issued by the CBK in the 1990s.” Cherang’any MP Joshua Kuttuny and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi have condemned the arrest, questioning the motive. Kuttuny told President Uhuru Kenyatta if the situation is not handled well, it would sour the relationship in Jubilee. “How are we supposed to explain to our people what is happening to one of us? Please adhere to the rule of law and stop intimidating leaders using the police,” Kuttuny added. More on this : Alfred Keter says arrest over 'forged' T-bills an attempt to cover up CBK fraud The MP said it is ironic that more than 12 hours after Keter’s arrest, police have neither indicated the MP’s crime nor recorded the matter in an Occurrence Book. He said the arrest is a clear indication of a plot by the government to taint the Nandi Hills MP’s political image. “We are aware this is a political witch-hunt.” Click here for the latest political stories