China will continue to build Jubilee’s capacity and train its officials on modern skills of running the party, Ambassador Liu Xianfa has said. The Chinese Ambassador said on Tuesday that he wants Jubilee Party to attract a strong support base, as well as understand and take part in the policy-making process, to improve the lives of millions of Kenyans. He said his country has identified areas that need strengthening in President Uhuru Kenyatta's party, areas which will build the party’s brand and enhance its relationship with locals. “We have organised visits to China, training courses and exchange programmes that will improve Jubilee's stake in the country,” Xianfa said. More on this: Jubilee officials head to China for training by Communist Party Also read: Why I believe Jubilee Party is worth joining - Koigi Both China and the Communist party have worked with Jubilee since the merger of affiliate parties on September 9, 2016. Their first direct engagement was attending the merger of the 12 parties that formed the ruling coalition. Jubilee honchos described the move as the saviour of Kenyan democracy and unity. “We have learned lessons from the Communist Party of China which has a membership of hundreds of millions of people. We will share them with our local counterparts," Xianfa said when he paid Jubilee officials a courtesy call at their headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. "The modern skills will help both parties – the Communist and Jubilee – grow together. Only ANC is older than the Communist party by 10 years. That is where we want to take Jubilee.” South Africa's African National Congress is 106 years old. The envoy noted they were looking at a party that works closely with the government of the day, in a mutually beneficial relationship, to create jobs and business opportunities, improve securityand improve the lives of Kenyans. “Traditionally, we have worked with the Kenyan government to build infrastructure and improve security but right now we are also engaging Jubilee Party as part of our plans to change lives.” Kenyan and Chinese government officials attended the meeting. Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the new relationship would benefit members. “We are glad to host the Chinese envoy and believe this new relationship will have a strong impact on Kenyans and the Chinese,” he said. Jubilee Vice Chairperson David Murathe noted Jubilee is young but expressed confidence that the party will grow through the exchange programmes. “We don’t want the culture of using parties to win elections and then dumping them. We are building a brand that is here tostay and serve Kenyans better,” Murathe said. Read more: Uhuru to remain Jubilee party leader even after 2022 - David Murathe Click here for the latest political news