One learns to write by reading good books, as one learns to talk by hearing good talkers. —Frank Laurence Lucas It has almost become a cliché to lament that today’s educated youth do not know how to write. Employers complain that the graduates they employ or those seeking internships have serious problems putting ideas on paper or articulating them. Universities almost compete in indulging in this pastime. They similarly complain that the students they enrol have little or no writing skills. Media houses have not been left behind either. I meet media managers who complain that students seeking internships in their establishments have not mastered the language necessary for success in a career in journalism and communication. There is a reason behind this writing deficiency in our youngsters. Policymakers, opinion leaders and educators should look for a solution to the problem, instead of complaining. In this way, we not only help the young people, but also society in general. In the fullness of time, these young people will take control of the institutions we manage. We should prepare them for this eventuality. We should address the roots of the serious communication gaps. We should find out whether the learning experiences they go through prepare them to be effective communicators — both in print and in speech. One does not need to join departments that require journalism or communication certificates to write effectively. Anybody in a supervisory, management or leadership position works through writing or by word of mouth. Indeed, people working in technical and professional wings of an organisation are employed for their knowledge and skills. These people give the best they have — in terms of knowledge, skills, experience and intuitions to society —through words on paper or in speech. Excellent communicators move the world. Many people argue that the ability to communicate, through writing or speaking, is a natural talent —some have it, some do not. This is a lie. While some people do have a natural aptitude for writing or speaking, anyone, once equipped with a sound understanding of persuasive and compositional principles, can communicate effectively. Suffice it to say that effective writing and speaking can be taught. Indeed, a fundamental goal of the teaching of languages — in our case English and Kiswahili —is to cultivate reading, writing and listening skills in the learners to the uttermost degree possible. The overriding goal of early learning is to teach children how to read and write and count. The principle is that once a child learns how to read, he should then have the power to learn anything age-appropriate and eventually read books written in the most sophisticated thought or style. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development has designed a curriculum on languages whose ultimate objective is to expose learners to a graded series of fiction and nonfiction works to cultivate their literary tastes all the way to the 12th year of basic education. The reading experience can help children appreciate the various forms of writing that are available for discourse or communication: Narrative, descriptive, expository and argumentative or persuasive writing. I have not heard, to the best of my knowledge, of employers having writing programmes or sessions for new employees, or old employees, in the event that management sees some languor in their communication abilities. Ultimately, writing is the other side of reading. A writer is a good reader moved to writing, XJ Kennedy, a leading writing instructor, says in his book The Bedford Guide for College Writers with Reader. We should not condemn educated young people for poor writing skills. Rather, we should ask whether we have created an environment that cultivates reading —and reading books with the intellectual sophistication that goes with their educational and training experience. Local universities can develop programmes to address these deficiencies in their students or reform existing ones. Employers can borrow a leaf from their counterparts in the West, and develop short programmes to improve the writing or communication skills of their employees.