Cash-strapped Isibania FC maintained their lead in the National Super League after beating Administration Police 2-1 on Sunday. Isibania made it two out of two wins and are the only team that have won their opening matches. Robert Jagero gave AP the lead in the 67th minute through a penalty awarded after Nicodemus Asumwa was brought down in the box. Abdalla Ismael equalised for the visitors in the 77th also through a penalty awarded after Antony Abwao was brought down in the area. Michael Babu struck the winning goal for the Dan Musta charges. “We want to maintain our perfect start. The players showed character against a very good side,” said Musta. He said they are targeting a top five finish in the first leg before fighting for promotion to the Kenya Premier League in the subsequent leg. Benley Juma’s AP find themselves in the relegation zone after losing their two opening matches. Last season, the law enforcers survived relegation by a whisker. Kenya Police are second on the log after they were awarded a walkover against Muhoroni Youth. Muhoroni risk being ejected from the league if they miss their next game. The team also failed to honour their fixture against KCB last weekend. At Moi Stadium in Kisumu, former Kenya Premier League side Western Stima battled to a barren draw against Ushuru. Stima coach Richard Makumbi blamed his strikers for failing to kill off the game. “My striking force is still shy in front of goal. Today, luck was not on our side but I’m going to work on it ahead of our game,” added the Ugandan. Western Stima will be away to Isibania at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo while Ushuru will entertain KCB. Ushuru coach Ken Kenyatta said the game was tough and vowed to work on mistakes which saw them miss promotion to the Kenya Premier League by whisker. In another match played at Camp Toyoyo, Nairobi City Stars beat FC Talanta 3-1. Abdirahim Mango gave City Stars the lead with Arthur Museve scored an own goal to equalise for Talanta. Kevin Ouma restored City Stars’ lead before Adams Usama wrapped up the scores in the 81st minute.