It is now clear to all and sundry that the Jubilee regime has set this country on a very dangerous trajectory, like never before. What we are seeing is terror by the State against innocent citizens. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i is leading a vicious onslaught against his fellow Kenyans. The events that have unfolded in the last few days have confirmed that the Jubilee regime is out to devour its own citizens in the worst ever authoritarianism Kenya has ever witnessed. It is now apparently clear that the government is keen on hurting not only the Opposition but the independent media and civil society. The aim is to muzzle alternative voices and stifle access to information. All forms of freedoms and liberties enshrined in the 2010 Constitution have been trampled upon and the Uhuru regime decided to take the law unto their own hands. We are under the law of the jungle. The arrest of key Opposition leaders, the clampdown on the media and the detention without trial of lawyer Miguna Miguna is just a tip of the iceberg of the worst that is yet to come. Although President Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn in controversially and decided to rule this country with what appears to be utter autocracy, he could have spared the nation the liberties provided for in the Constitution. Unfortunately, his government, which as the Opposition we argue has gained no legitimacy, has turned against all Kenyans. We, as NASA, want to remind the Jubilee regime that the voices of the Kenyan masses that stand with us in the struggle to redeem this country cannot be snuffed out by intimidation, harassment and incommunicado detention of our comrades. The NASA resolve to press for far-reaching electoral and social justice will remain on course and it doesn’t matter how many of us pay the ultimate price along the struggle. Some of our soldiers, majors, generals and commanders will get hurt, injured or even sacrificed, but what we want to remind the government is that they should not take the country back to yesteryear, when the words of those in power was the law. It is even disheartening that, despite a court order to have Miguna produced on court, the government has ignored that and continues to detain him even when we have been informed that his health has worsened critically. The writer is the ODM National Treasurer