Kenyans are witnessing a lot of political jostling amongst our major political parties. It is a fight for political space in leadership common and unique to our geopolitics. Every 10-year presidential term or cycle creates a power gap in both our political parties and the Executive. Jubilee deputy leader William Ruto has done everything possible to close all gaps in the Uhuru Kenyatta succession. Experience has taught him that in Kenyan politics one cannot do enough. Just when one imagines that he has closed all the leaks or outflows another unexpectedly opens up. The murmurs from some elected Central Kenya leaders that the Kikuyu nation does not owe Ruto any debt recently gained support from an unexpected quarter. Kanu Rongai MP Raymond Moi sensationally claimed that the late President Jomo Kenyatta had passed on the leadership baton to his father retired President Daniel arap Moi who had in turn passed it to President Uhuru Kenyatta, thus extinguishing the Kikuyu-Kalenjin debt. To his credit, Ruto appears to have abandoned his combative stance and has embraced diplomacy, at least for the moment. Matters are not any different in the NASA camp. Indeed the backstabbing and horse-trading are more intense. Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka is laying claim to his ‘pound of flesh’ from NASA coalition leader Raila Odinga. The old bull doesn’t appear as if he is ready to be put out to political pasture and therefore has subtly sent out his infantrymen and lieutenants to engage Kalonzo. Some, like Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho, have been outrightly impudent and insubordinate to Kalonzo. NASA co-principals Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula are also covertly eyeing pole position. Wiper recently cheekily lodged the NASA coalition agreement with National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, much to Jubilee’s delight. The agreement specifically prohibits Raila or any other ODM member from running under the NASA umbrella in 2022. The co-principals are expected to meet and nominate a presidential candidate from the remaining three, ie Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang’ula. Thus there is no automatic choice and Kalonzo should abandon his false sense of entitlement. The ODM leader obviously does not want to retire, hence, the power games and demands that they go it alone in 2022. This path is a sure way of destroying the integrity of the ODM leader, who has twice requested his co-principals to stand down and allow him a last shot at the presidency. His otherwise impeccable democratic credentials will go down the drain and he will never ever be trusted by both friend and foe. Jubilee is watching with glee as NASA appears about to implode internally. This to them will open a clear path to power for William Ruto and create the possibility of new alliances. Incredible as it may sound, ODM and Ruto may join forces in 2022. After all Ruto is a former ODM founder and worked well with Raila until he fired him as Cabinet minister over a scandal in his ministry. As they say, a day in politics is a long time and there are no permanent friends or enemies, only common interests. The manner in which Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula handle the current crisis will have a strong bearing on their personal futures and that of Kenya. Any attempt by either to run individually would be disastrous and inconsequential. Politics in Kenya is a game of numbers and they ought to be working at increasing rather than decreasing them. Neither should act selfishly. Ruto is alive to this fact and is constantly building new alliances. The 2022 presidential and General Election, all things being equal, will be a landmark in our history. The long-standing destructive feud between the Kenyatta and Odinga dynasties will end and open the political landscape to new players. The ‘us versus them’ syndrome may come to an abrupt end. Hallelujah Amen!