The government is headed for a major clash with the Judiciary over the deportation of lawyer Miguna Miguna. Yesterday, Justice Luka Kimaru of the High Court declared the deportation of the self-professed National Resistance Movement General to Canada “null and void and of no legal effect”. The judge faulted the Executive for expelling the lawyer from the country, despite court orders. Kimaru quashed the revocation of Miguna’s citizenship. Read: Miguna deportation illegal, surrender his passports, Kimaru orders The court nullified the cancellation of his passport and ordered Immigration director Gordon Kihalangwa to surrender the passport to the court within seven days. But the government defended its action as “procedural and done within the law”. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho yesterday said the government will appeal the decision because, “to surrender Miguna’s illegally-acquired Kenyan passport to the court is not in the best interest of the country”. Read also: Aluta Continua, Miguna declares after deportation nullified Miguna was deported on Wednesday last week after five days in custody. The judge ordered the government to produce him in court, but it deported him. His lawyers challenged the deportation and separately filed for orders to nullify the action. In his ruling, Kimaru said Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and Kihalangwa colluded to defeat justice, yet they ought to have led by example and adhered to the rule of law. Read: DPP files notice of appeal on Miguna deportation case The judge held the three in contempt, but said imposing a fine or sending them to civil jail “may not serve the ends of justice”. “As top police officers, the IG and DCI are required to be at the forefront in respecting summons.” Kimaru said, “the entire criminal justice system will collapse if bonded witnesses fail to appear to give evidence.” The judge said confining Miguna at the Inland Container Depot police station at Embakasi instead of producing him before court was a scheme to facilitate the Immigration chief to have him in custody. Kimaru said Kihalangwa could not run away from blame, even though he filed an affidavit to exonerate himself. He was privy to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi’s plan to deport Miguna. “It was not by chance that Immigration officers found the applicant at the precincts of the station. It was planned.”  Click here for the latest political news