A storm brewed in Homa Bay last year when a bus driver found himself on a collision course with a boda rider rider. It all started when Felix Omondi, a boda boda rider, left a Homa Bay town hotel at 5.30am on December 10, after attending a night dance. Omondi had a female passenger who had also attended the show, which was hosted by a benga musician. The two rode towards the CBD. Omondi saw a bus belonging to a Otange Bus Service parked by the road about 600m from the hotel. The bus, which was travelling from Nairobi to Homa Bay, was parked to allow one of the passengers to alight. But Omondi failed to stop his motorbike or take a different side of the road to evade the vehicle, which was right ahead of him. He went ahead and rammed into the vehicle with the motorbike, leading to serious injuries. Omondi was rushed to Homa Bay County Referral Hospital, where he later died while receiving medication. Boda boda operators stormed the bus and began quarrelling with the driver. The driver ran for his life after realising the riders wanted to lynch him. The impatient boda boda operators failed to calm down. They resorted to draining petrol from their motorbikes and set the bus on fire. The bus, worth Sh12million, was burnt alongside passengers’ luggage. A number of passengers inside the vehicle got injured while escaping from the fire. MORE ACTS OF ANARCHY On the same day, another group of boda boda operators stoned a water bus in Mbita town, Suba North subcounty. The water bus operates in Lake Victoria from Mbita town to Ringiti and Mfangano islands. The riders destroyed its window panes and a door to prevent it from docking, in what is associated with hooliganism. Moreover, some of the boda boda operators are accused of raping schoolgirls. Recently, one rider was accused of defiling a class seven pupil in Homa Bay town. The rider had been transporting the girl’s aunt to her workplace for the last five years, but one morning, he decided to defile the girl at her aunt’s house in Homa Bay town. Boda boda operators are now perceived as a threat to security.Some people term them a force that can take the law into their hands. County commissioner Kassim Farrah says the boda boda sector has turned from a business enterprise to a gang. “The sector is no longer a business enterprise because it is where criminals hide to perpetrate their criminal acts,” Farrah said. He said criminals hiding in the boda boda sector must be weeded out to enhance security. “I have directed all security personnel to crack down on criminals hiding in the business. We must deal with them to streamline the sector,” Farrah said. He called for boda boda operators to separate themselves from criminals. “I acknowledge the fact that boda boda sector was meant for job creation for our young people. My warning is that the youths must now decide to become business entrepreneurs or criminals, so that we take them to where they should be,” the commissioner added. SCARING INVESTORS AWAY County police commander Marius Tum said one of the measures of taming the riders is to prevent them from operating beyond 8pm. This comes as 16 motorbikes have been confiscated while two riders have been arrested in connection with the bus burning. Residents fear the unruly conduct of bodaboda operators will wreck their businesses. Homa Bay Town East MCA Juma Awuor said the uncouthness of riders will hinder development if left unchecked. “Our boda boda riders have to be tamed because they will make people fear investing in our town,” Awuor said. Jack Nyambega, secretary general of the Homa Bay Giant Traders’ Association, called for increased protection of businesses. “We want our security personnel to boost their operations so that traders are free from the criminal acts of boda boda operators,” he said.