Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has criticised the government and the police for defying court orders requiring them to restore TV signals. He termed the government's move as "continued disobedience and subjective application of the law". The courts ordered Communications Authority of Kenya to restore NTV, Citizen, and KTN News signals pending determination of a case filed by Activist Okiya Omtatah. The government cut off KTN, NTV, and Citizen TV over plans to broadcast
opposition leader Raila Odinga's unofficial "inauguration" last Tuesday. Also read: NASA planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i On Thursday, the court suspended the ban for 14 days while the case is heard and also ordered the state not to interfere with the operation of the three stations pending a full hearing. Kidero said the government's refusal to restore three TV channels is an indication the country is headed to the wrong direction. He also cited police's failure to produce lawyer Miguna Miguna
and blocking CA director
Francis Wangusi from resuming work despite a court order. "While the citizens accept to be governed, the leadership must listen to the voices of the public," he said via twitter on Monday "Kenyan security services and the police and the executive must respect the law without discrimination." He said a government administration that disobeys court orders compromises the nation’s dignity and integrity. The former city boss called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to ensure he and his administration to adhere to the rule of law. He warned that that country risks becoming a banana republic if the various arms of government do not respect each other. "It is incumbent upon the president and the executive to preserve the integrity and dignity of our nation," he said. More on this: Nasa can pirate TV stations if government shutdown persists, says MP Simiyu Kidero's criticism came in the wake of the government's crackdown on NASA politicians for taking part in Raila's "swearing in" as the People's President. Since last week, three opposition leaders - TK Kajwang (MP Ruaraka), George Aladwa (MP Makadara) and Miguna have been arrested. Kajwang and Aladwa were released but Miguna is still being held despite the court last Friday ordering police to produce him. Click here for the latest political news