Raila Odinga led top opposition MPs in a lengthy vigil at Milimani Law Courts on Tuesday evening as they waited for lawyer Miguna Miguna to be released. The Nasa chief went straight to the packed court moments after 3 pm and left at about 7.25 pm. Several MPs and supporters jammed the court and often caused disruptions as judge Luka Kimaru read his eight-paged ruling on the release of the controversial lawyer. Kimaru faulted the state for the illegal incarceration of Miguna and ordered his immediate release amid chants by his supporters. More on this: Release Miguna immediately, judge Kimaru tells police Also read: Chaos at High Court as Miguna's supporters demand to see him Outside the court room, supporters who gathered to witness Miguna's presentation and release after more than 96 hours, were earlier teargassed by anti-riot police. However, buoyed by the desire to see the self-declared general of the outlawed National Resistance Movement, they chanted opposition songs and slogans praising him. Even as dusk set in, they remained unmoved. Raila had been inside with lawyers James Orengo and Otiende Amollo. Kimaru had said he would not leave the court and would ensure Miguna's release. He remained in court up to press time as police heightened security to prevent chaos by charged supporters. The crowds peered into every passing car to see whether Miguna was inside. “Miguna is not here,” a senior police officer manning the gates told The Star when asked about the general's whereabouts. There were reports that police planned to release him at night to dodge the supporters. Miguna was earlier charged in Kajiado and reportedly taken to Nairobi but nobody had reported seeing him by 7 pm. The supporters filled the court premises after news of this transfer. Read: Miguna charged in Kajiado court, refuses to take plea “We want Miguna released. We can’t move out of here before we see him released,” one shouted. “We want the Kajiado court where Miguna was presented to hounor the two Nairobi High Court orders and present Miguna,” said Nelson Havi, one of the lawyers in the politician's team. The team noted all of Miguna's fundamental rights had been violated and called on the High Court to dismiss the case in Kajiado. "We have an Independent judiciary but a government that does not respect the rule of law," John Khaminwa said at the Nairobi High Court. "Our able and learned friends issue orders through courts but the government fails to honor the same court orders." Related: Aladwa sent to DCI, asks Maraga to help with court orders The Star learned that the lawyers in Nairobi had mobilised another team in Kajiado to present the two High Court orders at the Kajiado magistrate's court. They wanted the court to dismiss the case there on grounds that Miguana’s right were violated. “They have violated supreme laws,” said Orengo who is Siaya senator. The opposition and civil society teams that are helping Miguna secure justice said that after leaving the Kajiado court, he was quickly bundled into a vehicle and whisked away by plainclothes officers escorted by several vehicles (Subaru Outbacks). They said the teams followed the vehicles in hot pursuit but along Isinya road, they were "violently blocked" by two of the vehicles with gun-totting police. They lost the vehicle carrying Miguna. Click here for the latest political news