Environment CS Keriako Tobiko has warned that nothing will be hidden by the 15-member task force that will unearth the wanton destruction of Kenya's forests. The task force will have 14 days to prepare a report on the forest sector as well as propose remedial measures aimed at reversing the destruction. Ahead of the unveiling of the team on Tuesday, Tobiko urged the Kenya Forest Service
board to ensure the moratorium on logging is enforced ruthlessly. "I want the board to go out and enforce the moratorium and I need daily reports," he said on Monday, and directed it to provide names of those suspected to have plundered forests. The Minister further warned that nobody will be spared if found guilty of destroying Kenya's natural resources. "The
country has been facing an unprecedented and acute water shortage for three years now," he said after a closed-door meeting with the board at KFS offices. "There is no usual red carpet and time to celebrate as
rivers have dried and the intensity of drought and frequency has
increased." Tobiko noted wanton destruction of water towers, riparian areas and forests as saw millers conspire with some
officers. He warned that anyone found guilty of this offence will be fired immediately and taken to court. Saw millers' licenses will stand revoked ahead of their arraignment. The KFS is in the process of transferring rangers who have
stayed at one station for over six years in its latest move against
illegal logging. The purge came shortly after the government suspended logging in all forests in the country for the next three months. Deputy
President William Ruto announced the suspension on Saturday, amid declining water levels in major rivers countrywide. Details: Ruto stops timber harvesting at all forests for 90 days Tobiko told the board not to listen to anyone with contradicting views when enforcing the moratorium. "It may cause economic losses but do not listen to anyone. Enforce it relentlessly and ruthlessly," he said, adding he was ready to do whatever it took to protect water towers. Kenya's forest cover has increased from 6.9 per cent in 2013 to 7.24 per cent but the Constitution envisages a cover of 10 per cent. KFS Chief Conservator Emilio Mugo put put on
notice staff and officers not adhering to requirements of their
duties, saying they will be dealt with ruthlessly. "The
Cabinet Secretary has noted with concern expansive reporting of alleged illegal
forestry activities taking place in some of our areas of
jurisdiction," he said in an internal memo dated February 20. On Monday, he noted all officers, not just rangers, are affected. "Already, about 50 transfers have been done," he told the Star. Click here for the latest local political news