We know better why the failure by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and the other two co-principals to attend the Uhuru Park swearing-in happened, with information we now have. The information is satisfactory and understandable. My opinion, which resonates with the NASA leadership, is that we should remain a coalition. No party should think about parting ways with others. We are actually stronger in NASA together. I know our position is to move together. Obviously, there was some anger among particular individuals in NASA following the failure by the three principals to attend the important occasion. However, their reasons for their absence was not based on the information we have, which points to the need for us to remain united and focused. We have to seek ways of overcoming anger. Earlier sentiments by some ODM members asking our leader Raila Odinga to reconsider his relationship with other parties were individual statements based on anger, after the three principals failed to participate in the oath-taking event to the level we expected. I belong to the ODM Parliamentary Group as I do in NASA and after that event we have not met anywhere to discuss issues the agitated members told the media in press conferences. Those were individual positions. It is normal that when the unexpected happens, some people would get angry and various comments would be made out of it before you the get facts about the issues. There is a way in which NASA is formed and that formation is what informs our strength currently and in future. There is opportunity for other leaders to rise, but the arrangement now forms the basis of the strength we have. Supporters calling for the grooming of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and some talking about his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya for the 2022 ticket is normal, but usually expressed by fanatics. Such calls would not work in our best interests. In democracy you would know when the best leader rises, hence there should be flexibility in the coalition. Even if a person were to come out of the current arrangement and help NASA capture power and rollout its social democratic ideals for the benefit of the country, so be it. It is premature to start talking about 2022 succession politics. There has never been an intention on the principals’ part to withdraw or retreat from the NASA agenda. The writer is Homa Bay Town MP