Kisumu leaders have condemned police brutality against protesters at Ahero in Nyando subcounty. This comes after three people including a Form Two student at Lela Secondary School were shot dead by police on Tuesday. They are Kennedy Ochieng (24), Richard Okumu (17) and Lazarus Ochieng (34). Ochieng and Okumu were shot on the neck while Kennedy on the head as police tried to quell the protestors. Eight people are admitted in various hospitals including Jaramogi Odinga Teaching and Referral with gunshot wounds. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and area MCAs demanded that action be taken against officers involved. They said the Constitution allows rights to assemble and picket and therefore the sate should protect lives and property of citizens. Residents had come out to protest against the arrest and failure by police to produce NASA politician and lawyer Miguna Miguna, who hails from Nyando. The demo paralysed transport system on the Ahero - Kisumu road as police fired in the air and hurled tear gas canisters to disperse the residents who lit bonfires and barricaded the roads in running battles. Owili said police brutality since August 8, 2017 poll has becoming a norm in the region, and asked those assaulted by police to record statements with relevant authorities. “These are not police butchering our people, but Jubilee militia who have infiltrated the police. We put them on notice that if brutality against our people continues then we will ask our people to rise and defend themselves,” Owili said. He said the acts of brutality targeting a particular ethnic group was aimed at helping Jubilee keep power at all cost. Nyando MP Jared Okello said they will not accept going back old days of injustices, rampant killings, deportation and silencing of innocent citizens. “We are appealing to IPOA, independent human rights organisations and international community to probe into killing of NASA supporters by police,” he said. The leaders called for the decentralisation of police to allow count governments to be in charge of security. “We cannot allow our people to be butchered and brutalised by inhuman police officers. These officers must leave Kisumu to pave way for civilised and dedicated persons to serve the citizens,” Ahero MCA Kennedy Ooko said. He accused the police of using excessive force against protesters saying the killings are unlawful and uncalled for. Awasi/Onjiko MCA Maurice Ongeta asked county police commander John Kamau and Nyando OCPD Mohammed Amin to personally take responsibility over the killings. Kamau that one person has been killed but declined to reveal more details. “The situation was tense. I am on the ground clearing the road. Protestors almost ran over my station,” Kamau said on the phone on Tuesday. But Ooko said two people were killed later after they managed to calm the tension but Kamau said he was aware of one death. “I am still held up calming the situation. We have residents who are ready to identify the officers involved. I will give more information later,” he said. Ooko said the demonstration was peaceful until protestors were provoked by police, adding that the officers were using live bullets. “We have collected several bullet cartridges at the scene,” he added. Miguna, the self-proclaimed National Resistant Movement general, was charged at Kajiado Law Courts, days after he was arrested and held in secret.  