Deputy president William Ruto has dismissed claims that the jubilee government does not respect of the rule of law. Ruto said the current regime is a champion to the rule of law. He said those propelling propaganda that Jubilee has thrown the constitution to the dogs are just noise makers seeking to distract the government. The DP was speaking on Sunday during an interdenominational prayer service held at the Chepkemel primary school grounds in Uasin Gishu County. Asking all political leaders to respect the law Ruto said all Kenyans must submit to the Constitution of Kenya and the rule of law, not rule of men. Ruto said when President Uhuru Kenyatta and him lost the 2002 elections they respected the outcome and formed the Opposition He said they also accepted the International Criminal Court (ICC) summons despite the fact that they were innocent and attended the court where they proved their detractors wrong. According to Ruto, when the Supreme Court nullified their August 8 win, they respected the law by going back to the repeat presidential election in October 26 as demanded by the highest court in the land. “If there are people who respect the rule of law, then it’s us in Jubilee. We have track record of abiding by the rule of law and we will continue doing so,” he said. He said, “This democratically elected Government under the leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta will continue to be run on the basis of the Constitution and the rule of law”. Ruto’s remark comes amid public outcry of how state officers are blatantly breaking the rule of law. There has been a battle of power between the Judiciary and the National police where senior police officers have deliberately ignored court orders. Read:Miguna: State, courts clash Read:I didn't disobey court summons in Miguna case, was in a meeting - Boinnet The drama around Miguna Miguna deportation has sparked public debate with opposition leaders claiming the government using police to intimidate them. The MP's claimed Miguna was illegally deported in total disregard to the law. Just days after Jubilee party held its Parliamentary Group Meeting where president warned punitive measures against the rebel MP's Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter regarded as a thorn in the flesh for the ruling party was arrested on Friday in a dramatic narrative. Keter was arrested at CBK where he had allegedly alongside two directors fron Desai company presented fake T-Bills worth Sh 633 million. Section of Rift Valley MP's vowing to defend Keter who is being held at the Muthaiga police cells condemned the arrests saying it is a move by the government to silence the MP. Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttunyi said the region will not accept such intimidations and warned the UhuRuto government to respect the law. Read:Respecting rule of law a better legacy than roads or electricity, Kuttuny tells Uhuru Also Read:I've never been served court orders, Matiang'i says on Miguna deportation