Health officials in Garissa and neighbouring Madogo division, Tana River county, have stepped up campaigns to stop the spread of cholera. An outbreak of the highly contagious disease has claimed eight lives in the region since the first case was diagnosed two weeks ago. At a press briefing yesterday, Garissa Health chief officer Mohamed Farah said more than 290 people have been diagnosed and treated at an isolation unit at the Garissa County Referral Hospital. He said the department is working closely with health officials from Tana River, where the disease is suspected to have originated. “More than 90 per cent of the cases we’ve received at the Garissa County Referral Hospital’s isolation unit are from the neighbouring Tana River. We suspect some of these residents are using contaminated water,” Farah said. The department has treated all water sources used by residents, including those in Tana River county. They rely on the support of community health workers. It has also deployed health workers to the Tana Bridge entry and exit points. The officers disinfect residents before they use the bridge. They also disinfect vehicles from the Madogo area. The county has ordered the closure of all eateries, butcheries and open-air food cafes. Farah said casual workers from Madogo might have contributed to the spread. They flock to Garissa town daily to work in the informal sector, he said. cases decline Farah urged residents to maintain high standards of hygiene. He said they have recorded a decline in cholera cases, but the county must continue disinfecting and sanitation efforts. Farah yesterday dismissed claims cholera started in the Daadab refugee camp. A Garissa High School student from the Hagadera refugee camp was diagnosed with the disease last week. Early last month, four children aged between six and 10 years from Hagarbul were admitted with diarrhoea to the Dadaab Subcounty Hospital, Garissa. Samples collected from the victims were taken to Hagadera centre for disease control. County disease surveillance coordinator Hassan Elmi said rapid diagnostic tests were positive for cholera. Yesterday, Farah cautioned residents against waiting to report cases. He urged them to act swiftly and take anyone with diarrhoea, headache and weak joints to isolation centres. They have been set up in Sankuri, Fafi, Mbalambala, Madogo health centres and the county referral hospital. The centres are equipped to handle the disease, Farah said. Garissa county also had a cholera outbreak last year. Four people died in May. The medical services director said the four were among 146 infected people. 