The High Court in Kisii has upheld the election of Senator Sam Ongeri. Justice Winfridah Okwany dismissed a petition filed by two voters who claimed that the August polls were marred by irregularities. In their petition, voters Charles Orito and George Ogake alleged that IEBC did not use credible voters register in conducting the exercise. Read: Voters petition Ongwae, Ongeri and Ong’era’s victories in Kisii They also claimed that votes cast in 184 polling stations differed from the registered number of voters. But Justice Okwany, in her judgement, said that the petitioners failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. She noted that human errors by election officials did not materially affect the final outcome. "The petitioners herein failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. The burden of proof lies on them," she said. Ongeri defeated former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara with a margin of 64, 687 votes. He garnered 183, 375 votes against Magara’s 118, 688. Orito and Ogake had listed county returning officer Sidney Namulungu, IEBC, and Ongeri as the respondents. The petitioners prayed to the court to invalidate Ongeri’s victory on grounds he was not validly elected. They at the same time claimed that errors in transposition of votes from statutory forms affected the outcome. "An election petition is a serious matter compared to other cases. So, it was upon the petitioners to lay substantive evidence against the respondents," the judge said. "The petitioners relied on data from friends, they failed to prove they were data analysts," she said. Also read: Ruling on petition challenging Ongeri’s victory set for February 5 The judge at the same time noted that votes cast did not did not exceed registered voters as alleged by the petitioners. She agreed with Namulungu and IEBC's testimony that votes were not manipulated in favour of Ongeri. The judge also overruled allegations by the petitioners that the senator engaged county employees during the election. "I find it false and absurd that the third respondent (Ongeri) used county government employees," Okwany said. "The court was in confusion how the third respondent who was a candidate was at the same time engaging the employees," the judge said. Lawyers Okong’o Omogeni represented Ongeri; Omwanza Ombati for petitioners, and Charles Rigoro for Namulungu and IEBC. She at the same time dismissed petitioners allegations that statutory forms had no security features saying that they did not seek a court order to scrutinise the same. The judge awarded Sh5 million cost to Ongeri and Sh3 million to Namulungu and IEBC. Click here for the latest political news