Asian Tigers are the highly developed economies of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. The meteoric rise of these economies has led to overarching comparisons, contrasts and calls for African countries to learn from their experience to achieve meaningful and sustainable growth. The choice of the “Big Four” – manufacturing, healthcare, housing and food security – by President Uhuru Kenyatta as his legacy projects is seen by many as a strategy to propel the nation to the double-digit growth envisaged in Vision 2030. Its success will have a great impact on the livelihoods of the majority poor and help in solving the endemic problems of poverty, ignorance and disease. The plan is expected to increase low-cost houses by over 500,000 units, offer affordable healthcare, ensure food security and expand the manufacturing sector. It’s well documented that the rise of the Asian Tigers hinged greatly on programmes in manufacturing, health, agriculture, infrastructure, energy and housing. So, what lessons can we learn from the Asian Tigers? Manufacturing: The Asian Tigers formulated flexible laws on labour, taxation and the environment, whose major effect was to expand industrial operations and increase output from companies. This led to an increase in goods for both local and foreign markets. Those with smaller domestic markets like Taiwan moved swiftly to seek free market access for their manufactured products abroad. They adopted an outward-oriented strategy and export promotion policies that went beyond their relatively smaller domestic market size at the time. With increased industrial output being exported, the countries were able to boost their foreign exchange and reduce balance of payments deficits. That is why today, Samsung – a South Korean company – is one of the largest consumer electronics producers in the world. Housing: Government intervention in Singapore achieved its objective of providing low-cost houses to the majority. It took a two-pronged approach involving construction and provision of finished units to suppliers of land. In South Korea, the government intervened by providing subsidised mortgages to low-income groups. In Taiwan, subsidised low-interest mortgages were provided through a centralised government-run housing fund that was loaded to the home purchasers at occupation. The Singaporean model was more successful and impactful. Food security: The success of agriculture, which guarantees sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life, was premised on land reforms, agricultural extension services, good infrastructure and heavy investments in rural areas. South Korea and Taiwan invested heavily in land reforms. To ensure that more land was put under cultivation, they invested substantially in irrigation and ancillary rural infrastructure. They also adopted high-yielding seeds, crops and use of fertiliser and modern agricultural equipment. South Korea adopted sound fiscal policy that ensured low levels of taxation on farming. Healthcare:,These economies provide access to key promotive, preventive, curative and rehabilitative healthcare services at an affordable cost. Hong Kong adopted a tax-financed system while South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore took the privately financed system. Regardless of the financing system the government adopts, there is need to ensure that excessive health expenditures are controlled within the desired fiscal policy. There is a great cultural and environmental difference between Kenya and the Asian Tigers which gives each region unique preconditions for development. But there is compelling evidence that we can achieve higher outcomes on the “Big Four” based on lessons from these economies. Economist and commentator on trade and investment Ben.ayieko@yahoo.com @BenShawAyieko