Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati will keep his pistol and a shotgun pending hearing and determination of a suit he filed against the government. The Mp was required to surrender the weapon to the Firearms Licensing Board Thursday evening, but he obtained an order suspending the decision. Justice George Odunga, in a ruling further said the Mps security details who have been withdrawn should be reinstated until the case is resolved. Read : NRM crackdown? State revokes Simba Arati's gun licence The Mp dashed to court on Thursday evening just hours his firearm license was revoked. He has sued the Board’s Secretary, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett, and Cs Fred Matiang’i. The decision revoking the Mp’s licenses is contained in a letter dated January 30. Similarly, other NRM allied members who have had their firearm licenses revoked include Wiper leader and NASA co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and the Amani National Coalition party leader Musalia Mudavadi among others, but they are yet to file cases. The government has also withdrawn security detail attached to the Nasa Leaders. In his case, Arati says the government, in revoking his licenses has acted in blatant disregard of the law and the constitution. Through his lawyer Arnold Ochieng, the controversial Mp said the decision was not only arbitrary but was also against the rules of natural justice as no notification was whatever issued and neither was he afforded an opportunity to be heard. Further, he says the move by the Board was an affront to the principal of the constitution and his right to a fair hearing. “The process leading to the making of the decision was accented with secrecy and driven by ulterior motives political considerations in a manner that violates the provisions of law and defeats the principles of the constitution and right to fair administrative action” he adds. Further, Arati argues the decision to take away his security detail failed to not adhere to the principles of good governance set out in article 10 of the constitution and his rights to equal protection. Justice Odunga directed the Mp to serve the respondents with the suit papers and parties to appear before Court on February 13. Click here for the latest political news