 Has power gone to Jubilee’s head or
is the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto just a bully on
the prowl? The latest harsh letter by Jubilee
secretary general Raphael Tuju to Chief Justice David Maraga framing the
Judiciary to be pro-opposition, and demanding a tone down, considered alongside
ongoing developments in the National Assembly, where NASA legislators elected to
House leadership have been denied official cars, body guards and firearms,
confirm our worst fears that Jubilee could be operating on a consolidation of
old dictatorship guidebook. Such was used in the past by world infamous despots
such as Idi Amin (Uganda), Mobutu Sese Seko (Congo), Jean-Bédel
Bokassa (Central Africa), Sani
Abacha (Nigeria) and The Duvaliers (Haiti), among others. It must be a noxious fusion
indeed. The irony with this Jubilee
experiment is that most of the old dictatorships that mismanaged their
countries did not operate in countries with popular, democratic and progressive
constitutions. In fact, most had grabbed power by use of rogue militaries and
militia, then ruled by evil impulse. On the contrary, Kenya is supposed
to be a constitutional democracy, where the leadership at all levels should
operate within the law and be guided by the Constitution. What Jubilee is doing to the
Judiciary and Legislature is nothing short of a constitutional coup. Their
purported interventions in the internal operations of the two claiming to be
acting in the interest of the public are open cases of hostile intrusion and
rough manipulation. It is pure subversion of the Constitution, which prohibits
forming or operating a government contrary to its provisions. Enough has been said about this
government circumventing the Constitution and abuse of office to manipulate,
control and, in many, cases destroy independent constitutional institutions and
their leaderships. Jubilee’s gangly move to cannibalise
the constitutional order that demands Kenya remains a constitutional democracy
complete with clear separation of powers between the three arms of government
is treasonous. A government where the two “main” arms are subservient to the
Executive is alien to the constitutional order. The Executive has unilaterally
thrown out the principle of complementarity among the three arms and resorted
to total emasculation of the other two in some inexplicable manoeuvre to
consolidate power and enforce total control of the nation without checks and
balances. Apparently, the presidency and the Executive
have criminalised constitutionally guaranteed and protected checks and
balances, hence the evil encroachment on the Judiciary and the Legislature with
impunity and abandon. Those doubting emerging evidence
that the presidency has captured and is manipulating Parliament daily for
partisan, selfish pursuits should now smell the coffee and accept the reality
following recent withdrawal of official cars and security details of opposition
parliamentary officials John Mbadi (Minority leader) and Junet Mohammed
(Minority whip). They were snatched their official cars
at abruptly mounted roadblocks in Nairobi and thrown out like criminals.
Earlier, most opposition MPs had been snatched official bodyguards and guns. As these happened, Jubilee
legislators and officials continued enjoying Parliamentary privileges,
including official limousines and police security detail. This scenario
contravenes the Constitution, which categorically bars any form of
discrimination. National Assembly Speaker Justin
Muturi’s loud silence and inaction in the face of these injustices indicts him
as an accomplice of the Executive’s sins against Parliament, and needs to be
sanctioned appropriately alongside Jubilee MPs. As lawmakers, their silence in
the face of grave violations of the same laws condemns them as mindless
abettors of sins against their colleagues and Parliament at large. Logic
demanded that they stand up against the Executive’s encroachment on Parliament
and the resultant abuses. Back to Tuju’s rebuke to the
Judiciary, the height of political bad manners, it reminds Kenyans of the post-August
8 annulment of the Presidential election results that had given Uhuru Kenyatta a
false victory. The President and Jubilee MPs abused the Chief Justice, his
Supreme Court counterparts and the Judiciary, and promised to fix them after
the election. Could Tuju’s move be the preamble to the promised fixing of the
Chief Justice and his colleagues? If for sure, if Jubilee has purposed
to fix the Judiciary, what procedure will they use that will be acceptable to
Kenyans? Could they have started it by institutionalising disobedience of court
orders? If they opt to use Parliament to
remove top judges and court officials, how valid will it be when the same House
stands impugned by virtue of operating unconstitutionally as a department of
State House, instead of the independent arm of government envisaged in the Constitution? And who cheated Tuju and his masters
that the Judiciary will be subject to their control and direction?  The writer is the ODM national treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP  