Former Ruaraka OCS Nahashon Mutua on Monday denied killing a suspect in a police cell on December 19, 2013. The officer told Lady Justice Stella Mutuku that Martin Koome was beaten up by cellmates for noise making minutes after he was booked. Mutua told the court on Monday that he never assaulted any suspect as alleged by the prosecution. Koome was taken to the station on allegations of attempting to strangle his baby after chasing away his wife at Baba Dogo, Nairobi. The judge had found the officer with a case to answer after analysing evidence adduced by 18 prosecution witnesses. Read: Ex-Ruaraka OCS has murder case to answer after evidence analysis Justice Mutuku held that she is satisfied that the accused should be put on his defence in respect of the murder charges. The former OCS told the court that one of the prosecution witness, Kelvin Odhiambo alias Nyundo actively took part in Koome's assault in the cells. The said witness had earlier been charged with the murder but the case was later withdrawn. Odhiambo, who was facing robbery charges, was locked up in the same cell with Koome on the said night. Mutua linked Odhiambo and several other suspects in the cells to the assault which caused Koome's death. He said that his friend, a Victor Kioko - a nurse at Kenyatta National Hospital, was also in the police cells on the night of the alleged beating. Mutua said that the fight was caused by Kioko and Odhiambo after they differed in the cells. The ex-officer informed the court that later on in February 2014, he met Kioko, whom he knew prior to the incident. He said the latter, during the meeting at Embut Restaurant within Ruaraka, told him that Odhiambo and other suspects ganged up to frame him with the assault. Mutua further informed the court that Kioko sought Sh150,000 from him in order to record a statement in his favour over the allegations. He denied claims that he removed Kioko from the cells, drove him to Neema Hospital for treatment before setting him free without charge. The former OCS said he took the suspect for treatment on agreement that he would pay back Sh5,000 after he resumes work at KNH. Also read: Police chief 'threatens' key witness in murder charge He also denied hitting Koome with a blunt object occasioning him fatal head injuries and eight broken ribs; as well as mooting an elaborate scheme to cover up the murder. The former OCS is also accused of immersing Koome's head in a drum of water. The former Ruaraka police station boss also denied faking a report that the prisoner had been assaulted by cellmates and charging one of them with murder. Mutua was charged after investigations by IPOA revealed that two witnesses peeped through a ventilation and saw him attacking the late Koome using a metal rod. Click here for the latest political news 