The family of a 30-year-old woman who was allegedly killed by her boyfriend on Valentines Day yesterday stormed Tigoni police station demanding his arrest. The family confronted the police over the manner in which they were conducting their investigations, after collecting her body at Tigoni Hospital mortuary for burial. Simon Ndung'u, a family member, said Grace Wanjiku was found dead on February 15 near a river at the Rironi area, Limuru, after allegedly spending the Valentines Day with her boyfriend. “We were so shocked to find her dead near a river since we knew she was planning a wedding with him. I, however, didn't know the progress of their plans,” Ndung'u said. Wanjiku's father Samuel Kung'u said they decided to bring the coffin with her remains at the police station, since the suspect is still loitering around LimuruThe family of a 30-year-old woman who was allegedly killed by her boyfriend on Valentines Day yesterday stormed Tigoni police station demanding his arrest. The family confronted the police over the manner in which they were conducting their investigations, after collecting her body at Tigoni Hospital mortuary for burial. Simon Ndung'u, a family member, said Grace Wanjiku was found dead on February 15 near a river at the Rironi area, Limuru, after allegedly spending the Valentines Day with her boyfriend. “We were so shocked to find her dead near a river since we knew she was planning a wedding with him. I, however, didn't know the progress of their plans,” Ndung'u said. Wanjiku's father Samuel Kung'u said they decided to bring the coffin with her remains at the police station, since the suspect is still loitering around Limuru town, Rironi and Kabuku trading centre. “We are wondering why he has not been arrested since we have given the police all the information they asked for. We hear the suspect has been asking about the funeral plans and the plans after. We don't know the reason,” he said. The mourners sang dirges at the reception. Area DCI boss Mwenda Itheiba, however, told them no one had come forward to give information of the whereabouts of the suspect. “We are investigating the incident. I know how painful it is to lose a loved one. The problem is we hear he was seen last night or yesterday but no one has given us a tip off saying, he is at this particular area,” Itheiba said. “Today in the morning, my officers reported to me that they spoke with you and you said you were going for her funeral, but you never asked the difficulties we are facing in apprehending him,” he said. Itheiba urged the family and the mourners to give the police information of where the suspect is, so that he is arrested and help them with information regarding the victims murder. Wanjiku was later buried at Gatimu village in Rironi location.