Lawyers on Sunday called off their planned weeklong court
boycotts that had been scheduled to kick off on Monday. LSK President Isaac Okero said the boycott has been
postponed to facilitate better preparation. “Upon further consultation it has been decided that the
campaign shall proceed with all components save for the court boycott which
stands postponed for now to facilitate better preparation,” he said. Okero had on Saturday said lawyers across the country would
keep away from court sessions save for election petitions. Read: Lawyers to boycott court, protest State's disregard of court orders He clarified that the Yellow Ribbon campaign
will go on as planned. The campaign will see lawyers wear yellow ribbons to show displeasure with government’s open disregard to court processes and
contravention of the Constitution. They will also hold peaceful protests on Friday and file
court proceedings against State officers seen to have acted
with impunity in regards to court processes. This includes suing the State for damages on behalf of KTN,
NTV and Citizen TV which were switched off on January 30 for televising NASA
leader Raila Odinga’s swearing-in ceremony. Okero said the preparation of the Yellow Ribbon Memorandum is
also still on the cards. This is not the first time lawyers are teaming up to protest against acts of impunity against the government. In June 2016, lawyers held protests to condemn the murder of human rights lawyer Willie Kimani who was allegedly mudered by police officers. Recently after the deportation of Miguna Miguna to Canada, lawyers showed up in court donned in purple ribbons in solidarity with the vocal pro-opposition lawyer. They condemned his deportation which they said was illegal and did not follow the right legal channels. Prior to his deportation, the government disobeyed several court orders to release him on bond or produce him in court. Read: All Kenyans must follow court orders, Maraga says after Miguna drama  Click here for the latest political news