A 15-year-old standard four pupil is seeking justice after she was allegedly defiled by a GSU officer last week. The officer attached to Ishakani GSU camp, on the
Lamu-Somalia border, reportedly lured the girl into a house and repeatedly defiled her. The girl from Kiunga in Lamu East claimed the officer threatened to
shoot her dead if she ever spoke to anyone about the incident. The matter came to light after Lamu
woman representative Ruweida Obo intervened by demanding the officer's arrest and prosecution. Also emerging are claims that the suspect paid the girl's parents Sh20,000 in an attempt to silence them. "The officer is
well known and respected in Kiunga. He used to work here before being posted to
Ishakani," the girl said. She said the police officer normally helps the needy hence she did not suspect anything when he called and asked her to visit. "When he called me on
my parents phone and asked that I go collect some goods at one Hussein’s house, I
couldn’t suspect anything. "But after he came, he insisted that we go inside of
which I was very hesitant. He pounced on me, tied me up
with clothes and defiled me repeatedly," the girl said. Obo said she received a text message from a concerned
resident informing her of a girl who had been raped by a GSU officer. "The girl's parents told me they had already
resolved the matter locally and that I should not worry," she said. "That was when I learned they
had accepted Sh20,000 from the officer for them not to pursue the matter." "We
moved the girl from Kiunga to Lamu for security reasons. The officer must be arrested and prosecuted," the county MP added. Lamu East OCPD Gideon Mugambi and county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said they have no information regarding the case. "I have no
information. Why don’t you call the GSU’s bosses? I can’t comment about that
issue since I have not been informed about it," Kitiyo said. The incident comes just a week after a KWS officer was found in a
lodge with a 14-year-old school girl in Hindi town. The officer is yet to be taken to court since his arrest last week. Click here for the latest political stories