The High Court in Machakos yesterday upheld the victory of Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. Former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti vied for the seat on a Wiper ticket but lost the August 8 General Election. She challenged the outcome, saying the election was marred by irregularities and illegalities. Ndeti said more than 300 of her agents were denied access into polling stations and in more than 100 polling stations forms 37A were not signed. She also claimed Mutua committed several election offences which included voter bribery, use of public vehicles for campaigns and use of public officers to serve as his agents. But in his judgement, judge Agrrey Muchelule said the petition failed to substantiate most of the allegations. On the allegation that the first respondent used public officers as his agents, the judge averred that the petition only gave two names of the alleged officers but failed to prove whether they were county officials. The petitioner gave the names of Kennedy Ouma and Albanus Wambua as some of the county officials who served as agents. On Ouma, no evidence was given on which polling station he served as an agent. Regarding Wambua, the petitioner did not present evidence of employment records that could prove her allegations. Muchelule dismissed allegations by Ndeti that Form 34B of Mwala constituency showed inconsistencies in the tallied results. He ruled that the allegation was not materially substantiated. “The petitioner did not call his chief agents in Mwala to testify on the inconsistencies, neither did she ask for scrutiny on the same. This claim was sufficiently established”, he ruled. On allegations of voter bribery, the petitioner alleged the first respondent gave out loans to women and traders to persuade them to vote for him. But in his ruling on this allegation, the judge said the petitioner failed to present any witnesses to testify whether the loans were linked to the polls. Ndeti could not give evidence on voter bribery claims or allegations that some of the voters were issued with more than one ballot paper.The judge said the election was conducted in a free and fair manner. Ndeti was asked to pay Sh10 million as cost for the suit. Addressing supporters outside the court, Mutua termed the verdict a confirmation of the people’s will exercised in the election. “We did not rig our victory. We campaigned and won and I am grateful to God that the judge has seen that the case was nothing but a wildgoose chase,” the governor said. Mutua said his victory in court is a start of his 2022 dream and that he is ready to tour the country and drum up support for his presidential ambition. “Today I start a new movement for a country and of hope for our youth,” Mutua said. The governor asked the Kamba community to support him. He invited Ndeti to join him in working for the people. Ndeti disagreed with the verdict but said she would respect it. She said she would consider her next move after deliberations with her lawyers.