Following five Embu college girls’ rape by gangsters a week ago various local universities and college students’ leaders protested alleged security lapse and police mistreatment. The students’ leaders from among others Embu College, University of Embu, Kenyatta and Chuka university campuses and Walton college of Hospitality said the rape of the five Embu College Students was a culmination of security deterioration for students in Embu County. The students led by University of Embu Students’ chairman Duncan Othuon, secretary General Pigbin Odimwengu, Walton College leader Dorothy Wanja lamented that university and college students have been for some times under threat from ruthless criminals. They said they have been encountering muggers, wicked bodaboda operators, conmen and women and rapists and also harassment from the police, themselves. The students condemned raping of their colleagues from Embu College at their hostel which is about 100 kilometers from the college and the Administration Police quarters in Embu Town on the night of February 1 this year. They expressed disappointment at the slow pace in which the police responded to their distress call making gangsters rape and steal from the students for hours and escaped. The students lamented that nobody has been arrested since the incident which took place a week ago and called for hastening of investigations and the arrest of the culprits as fast as possible. They lamented that some bodaboda riders have been snatching laptops from University of Embu Students when they spot them carrying their bags along the road and also snatching mobile phones when making calls before riding away. The student’s leaders claimed conmen claiming to pray to increase their money have also been on the lying in waiting and that female students have also been raped. The students further claimed some police officers have been arresting students going to their hostels which are outside the colleges at night and demanding bribes to release them to avoid criminal charges. They called on the County Commissioner Esther Maina to ensure security is beefed up all over the county so that students who are from all over the country are assured of their security as they learn to brighten their future. The students at the same time urged the county government to install streets enough street lights in the areas near the universities and estates arguing that criminals were taking advantage of darkness to ambush students. They argued that their existence in the county contributes to the economy of the area and thus county government should retain them by making their environment conducive. The students at the same time called on their colleagues to ensure they seek hostels which have enough security further asking landlords to ensure their hostels are manned by watchmen, have CCTV camera’s if possible and alarms. The five students were raped by about ten armed gangsters when they invaded an Embu College female students’ hostel, on at night and stole their personal items. Some of the students said that the robbers invaded Castle Girls Hostels in Bondeni estate which they have rented outside the college and situated about 100 meters from the local administration police line at around midnight.   