The Nairobi county government on Monday gave operators of unlicensed abattoirs 60
days to comply with the set standards or have their premises closed. Agriculture CEC Danvas Makori raised concern over the safety of the meat city
residents consume, citing slaughterhouses that do not
meet basic operation standards. He also blamed the situation on shortage of veterinary officers and
meat inspectors. Makori cited
Kiamaiko and Burma slaughterhouses, which he said are located in an unhygienic
environment and are run by operators who are hostile to city
inspectors. He said the county
has, for instance, twice tried to close the nine abattoirs at Kiamaiko
but its efforts were thwarted by politicians owning them. "Our primary role is to ensure
Nairobians consume safe food. That is why we cannot sit back and watch.
We must act," he said. Makori spoke during a tour of Kiamaiko, Burma and Neema slaughterhouses. He was accompanied by members of the Agriculture committee of the county assembly. Neema,
located in Lucky Summer estate in Ruaraka, is said to be the county's best
abattoir. It has modern facilities which can handle about 3,000 tonnes of meat every month. The meat is exported to UAE, Qatar, Kuwait and
Saudi Arabia. The county official highlighted that five meat inspectors are attached to Kiamaiko but the area has no veterinary officer. He
said only three abattoirs - Farmers Choice, Quality Meat Packers and Neema, in Lucky summer meet the basic operation standards. Farmers
Choice has six meat inspectors and two veterinary officers seconded by the county government. Quality Meat Packers has one vet and three meat inspectors while Burma has four meat inspectors but does
not have a vet. The executive said the county only has 31 meat inspectors and
four veterinary officers to man the 21 abattoirs across the city. "Even
the 31 officers we have, most of them are retiring in three to five
years. After five years, we will not have any inspector unless the county
hires more before then," Makori said. The county's veterinary department also does not have a single vehicle to be used by officers to inspect the abattoirs. According
to Makori, the county needs at least 20 more inspectors and five vet
officers to properly inspect the meat the residents consume. Click here for the latest political news