Doctor lecturers will go on strike on February 15 over unpaid risk and emergency call allowances, Ouma Oluga has said. The Kenya Medical Pharmacist and Dentists Union secretary general issued the strike notice on Thursday. He said the ministries of health and education were testing their patience. "We had mentioned that we do not want a strike but we are not incapable of it," Oluga said. He spoke at the University of Nairobi’s College of Heath Sciences at the Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi. The strike has the potential of collapsing specialised services across all referral hospitals where over 600 doctor lecturers offer their services. The institutions to be affected are Kenyatta National Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Kiambu Hospital. Others are Coast General, Rift Valley Provincial Hospital, and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral hospital in Kisumu. The allowances, which are contained in the return to work formula doctors signed in March last year, were to be backdated to January 1, 2017. "The law only requires seven days, we have given them an extra seven days to ensure that this is sorted out." "We are warning all the vice chancellors at the public universities, the supplementary budget timelines are ending next week. They have time to put this in the supplementary budget," Oluga said. He dismissed claims by a foreign envoy that the allowances were not factored into government’s budgetary allocation in the current financial year. Oluga said the cost for doctors CBA, which includes the allowances, was calculated in the presence of Treasury CS Henry Rotich before the budget was approved by Parliament in February 2017. "We are very clear that this money was budgeted for and now we want it budgeted for moving forwards. Public universities are saying they will pay, but they need to pay it not just give promises. It’s been one year, and in some incidences you find that lecturers are teaching students who are earning more than them," Oluga said. KMPDU chairman Samuel Oroko reiterated that it is not their desire to strike but the hide and seek games exemplified by the government have pushed them into downing tools. "Every time, the government signs deals it is not committed to fulfil so we want to teach them a lesson," he said. "We want to make it very clear that come February 15, all medical schools will remain closed until such a time the government will honour the return to work agreement," Oroko said. Read: KMPDU threatens strike over delayed pay for doctor lecturers Click here for the latest political news