Frustrations are piling at Kenyan Premier League side Posta Rangers after their first win of the new season was further postponed by Vihiga United following a barren draw yesterday. Going by the new signings and preseason preparations, Rangers were deemed as genuine title contenders but in three duels, Sammy Omollo’s charges are yet to taste victory. Despite drawing with AFC Leopards (1-1) and Tusker (0-0) in their opening league matches, Rangers were expected to cruise over debutants Vihiga United and post their first win of the season but Edward Manoah, who was also eying his first win of the season proved equal to the task, keeping Rangers goal poachers at bay. Vihiga lost 2-1 to Mathare United in their opener and drew Kariobangi Sharks in their second and the search their first victory in the top flight continues amid impatience from their supporters. Yesterday’s barren draw at Bukhungu left the mailmen with three points from three matches, a frustrating return for a side who finished fourth last season. While the two teams were searching their first win of the season, Thika joined them in the winless corner after playing Bandari to a barren draw at the Thika Sub County Stadium. The hosts were eyeing their first win after going down 1-0 to Kakamega Homeboyz in their opener and played Nakumatt to a 3-3 draw in their second. Nicholas Muyoti’s side were dominant throughout the game but could not find the match winning goal. The draw for the dockers maintained their unbeaten run and are yet to concede, three matches into the new season. Elsewhere, Zoo Kericho were slapped with their third straight defeat of the season after going down 1-0 to Sony Sugar at Mumias Sports Complex. Zoo had fallen to Ulinzi Stars and Gor Mahia in identical 4-2 margins in their previous encounters and yesterday, Sony made good use of Zoo’s complacency to gain the three points. David Simiyu was on target for the miller’s as his first half strike proved the difference between the two teams.