The family of a former power Provincial Commissioner in retired President Daniel Moi’s regime, Isaiah Cheluget, has won a 19-year-battle for ownership of 5,000 acres valued at least Sh2 billion. The land that is in close proximity of the iconic Maasai Mara Game Reserve was registered under Cheluget on November 1 1980. However, the Samagian community was displeased with the acquisition and first raised objections in the late 1990s when there was some altercation between them and Cheluget. The dispute spilled over into the corridors of justice in 2003 when the community sued the former Nyanza PC, claiming he had used his position in government to acquire the land they had allegedly settled on since 1920. In 2009 Justice Jackton Ojwang, then a High Court judge, ruled in favour of Cheluget. But the Sagamian appealed the decision. Cheluget who was among the first PCs appointed by founding President Jomo Kenyatta in 1969, has been battling a community in the area called the Sagamian over the land. Cheluget died on June 26 last year at Aga Khan Hospital leaving behind a wife and nine children, including former UK Ambassador Nancy Kirui. Samagian invadedland He was the chairman of Kipsigis Elders, Bureti chapter at the time of his death. Cheluget left behind a vast estate. In his defence at the Court of Appeal said he was the first registered owner of the property and that he enjoyed exclusive possession of it until 1999 when some members of the Sagamian community forcibly invaded his land. The court has now ruled that Cheluget’s acquisition was legal, and evidence before the judges pointed towards an attempt by the Sagamian to wrestle the land from hin. Cheluget held that the invasion of the land forced him to flee the property, where he had built a palatial home in 2000. His son moved out and left workers to care for it. The court ruled the Sagamian didn’t prove when exactly they settled on the land.  The little-known community claimed in 1979 Cheluget flattened a school and church on the land. The Sagamian asked the court to rule that the land be registered to them. Under the Limitation of Actions Act, any person who occupies land for more than 12 years without interruption becomes the legally recognised owner. But the Court of Appeal judges held that the land is private property . Prior to Cheluget’s burial last July, his family squabbled over his property. Moses Cheluget, claimed to be his son and asked for propoerty. The PC’s brother Wcliffe Cheluget sought to stop the burial over a land dispute.  Click here for the latest political
news