Deputy President William Ruto’s allies in the Rift Valley plan to declare him the regional kingpin to counter rebel MPs’ attacks ahead of the 2022 election. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago will lead a series of meetings in the Rift counties to declare support for Ruto. Mandago said the region stands behind Ruto and will help Jubilee deliver its mandate. "We all know the DP is our leader and he is a national leader too. We do not need to drag him into domestic politics because he has to serve the whole country,” he said. Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei said politicians opposing Ruto should rethink their stand. “We will back Jubilee because it is working for Kenyans and there is evidence," he said. Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut echoed Tuwei’s comments. During a prayer meeting in Turbo on Sunday, Mandago and Kesses MP Swarup Mishra warned rebel MPs, including Nandi Hills’s Alfred Keter, saying they will be not entertained because “they are a threat to the interests of the Kalenjin community”. Refused to resign Keter’s arest last Friday sparked politicking. He was arrested alongside businessmen Arthur Sakwa and Madat Chatur for allegedly trying to redeem fake Sh633 million Treasury bills. They denied the charges on Monday and were released on Sh2 million bail each. Mandago said: "We want to tell Keter and his friends that they will not be allowed to put roadblocks on the DP’s journey to State House." Others viewed as rebels include Cherangany’s Joshua Kutuny, Sila Tiren of Moiben and Kangogo Bowen of Marakwet East. They defended Keter following his arrest and said he is being targeted by the government. The rift started last month when Keter, Kangogo and Tiren disobeyed Ruto’s orders to resign from top positions in parliamentary committees. Jubilee wanted the positions taken over by MPs from other regions under a power-sharing plan. Jubilee MPs were directed to vote out the three. A section of Rift politicians warned President Uhuru Kenyatta his legacy could be tainted if the government agencies disrespect the rule of law. Kutuny and Samuel Moroto (Kapenguria) said they are not happy about the route Uhuru’s administration is taking. "I want to tell Uhuru as my good friend that building roads, bringing electricity to the people or connecting water to every home will not earn him a name," Kutuny said. Click here for the latest political news