Amani National Congress leader Musali Mudavadi is currently held up in a closed door meeting with Luhya elders. Sources say the meeting is aimed at forging the way forward for the Mulembe community ahead of the 2022 presidential race. The meeting is being held at COTU Sec Gen Francis Atwoli's Muklwanda home in Khwisero constituency, Kakamega county. Emuhaya MP Omboko Milemba and Busia Senator Amos Wako are in attendance. Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Senator Cleophas Malala reportedly snubbed the meeting. Sources close to the two leaders said they demanded a clear explanation why Mudavadi skipped the swearing in of Raila Odinga at Uhuru Park. Mudavadi has been under criticism from the Luhya nation for skipping the event with some calling him a traitor and coward. Atwoli, in an earlier statement, referred to Mudavadi, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as "irredeemable cowards". The COTU boss said he had withdrawn his support on the two Luhya political kingpins saying President Uhuru Kenyatta
should only dialogue with Raila. Read: Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula irredeemable cowards – Atwoli Some of the MCAs who attended the meeting said the Mulembe nation is seeking to reorganise itself for 2022. "Luhya nation is united and we believe in Mudavadi and Atwoli. We know that after the meeting, we shall have solid resolutions to tell our people," Vena Kaisha told journalists in Kakamega on Sunday. Isaac Otiende said though the meeting is a meet-drink-and-eat together the 2022 politics was the contentious issue to be discussed. "People are castigating Mudavadi for missing the swearing in but everything went on as planned on that day. Nothing changed and the narrative that Luhya's are divided is pure propaganda," Otiende said. He said: "After the meeting, Luhya nation will be more united and stronger ready to move forward to 2022." "We want to give Kenya the best leader it has been yearning for. Mudavadi is all we want because he is the best this country needs," one of the elders said. He said it is high time for their Luo brothers to throw their weight behind Mudavadi. Click here for the latest political news