Twice in succession, Mathare united have come from behind to pick three points and keep a one hundred percent start to the campaign. Their opponents this afternoon Ulinzi Stars, though, are a different prospect altogether. The Slum Boys will be better advised not to give them a stranglehold at Afraha Stadium. The soldiers have blown hot and cold so far and will require a level of consistency to sustain a title challenge. From fending off relegation to now sit joint top of the table is a turnaround of monumental proportion even for a club with rich history and a coach of great calibre in Francis Kimanzi. So far Mathare have emerged as championship dark-horses. Striker Cliford Alwanga will be expected to lead the search for goals alongside youngster Francis Omondi. The duo have each notched a winner in the Slum Boys last two matches and their partnership may hold the key to a successful campaign for the former champions. Given the signings they made, Posta Rangers were placed among contenders for the Kenyan Premier League title. A return of two points in as many matches has seen the pre-season optimism dissipate. Only victory against new boys Vihiga United will rekindle their ambitions of fighting for the championship. Vihiga, though, are ready for a fight, evidenced by their pulsating 2-2 draw against Kariobangi Sharks last time out. They will, however, need to shore up their defence if their target of avoiding relegation is to be met. Wazito will be looking to home comforts to get a good result today when they host Kakamega Homeboyz. The debutants made everyone stand and notice when they dispatched Sony Sugar by a solitary goal. It is that kind of solid performance that Frank Ouna’s charges will be expected to deliver week in week out if they are to remain among the elite beyond this year. Two teams who are yet to lose a match, Chemelil Sugar and Kariobangi Sharks will put those records on the line when they collide in Kisumu today. Chemelil ran away with a crucial point from their trip to the coast while Sharks were forced to share the spoils with Vihiga. Neither sides will be in a mood to drop more points as they seek to keep pace with the leading duo of Gor Mahia and Mathare. Cash-strapped Nakumatt will be away at Nzoia United with both sides yet to taste victory. Nakumatt, at least, have one point to show for from their two matches while Nzoia have lost both of their games to emerge as potential relegation candidates.