Since early 2017, a steady increase in the prices of petroleum products, brought by a substantial rise in the price of crude oil in the international markets has been witnessed locally. Oil prices directly affect prices of goods made with petroleum products and indirectly affect such costs as manufacturing and transport. Expensive oil is not very good for our economy in the short-term. A rise in the cost of oil has a consequence of a rise in the cost of living. With our plans to export crude oil discovered in Turkana region, higher crude oil prices would be welcome. Increase in fuel prices usually leads to a rise in the consumer price index. As oil prices go up or down, inflation follows in the same direction. Considering that most consumer products are transported by road, manufacturers and transporters are likely to pass the additional fuel costs to you, the consumer, making life more difficult for you. Kenya is a net importer of petroleum products and are therefore exposed to global trends. The price of petroleum products is not set by market forces, but by a formula set by Energy Regulation Commission. In their last update in mid-January, there was an increase and this is expected to continue in the short-term, as long as the global crude oil prices keeps going up. By raising the maximum pump prices, ERC is putting a strain in the pockets of Kenyans, who are already handling the high cost of living, brought about by the knockdown effects of the higher fuel prices on the production value chain. The pricing of the pump prices in Kenya takes into consideration the buying price of the product, transportation costs both in the ocean and on the road or rail, customs, duties, taxation, currency conversion, and handling fees among others. The biggest component is actually taxes which take up over 35 per cent of the final price. Taxes' share of fuel prices is highest for petrol and lowest for kerosene. The rise in international crude oil prices, which in turn has lead to the increase in prices of petroleum products in the country has been driven by several factors which include an increase in global demand, and the production cuts by the Organization of Oil Producing Countries. Global crude oil prices are rising because OPEC agreed to continue with their production cuts through 2018. The members of this group are targeting price oil at between $70 - $80. As a potential oil producer, Kenya would greatly benefit from the higher crude oil prices because we would earn higher revenues for our crude oil. Increase in crude oil prices are also a great incentive to the exploration firms in the country to increase their activities. As I conclude, I would like to propose a policy intervention especially with regard to taxation. Tax comprises the largest component of the consumer fuel prices in Kenya and a reduction by even a modest 10 per cent would go a long way in easing off pressure on a majority of Kenyans. A drastic reduction of taxes will severely cut down revenue to the Government from this sub-sector, but it will be a boost to the consumers and also positively impact on the manufacturing and production ecosystems. We are caught between a rock and a hard place. We would want the crude prices to keep rising as this makes our crude oil lucrative and the entire upstream industry welcomes this, while at the same time trying to ensure that the fuel prices do not spiral upwards out of control as this would make life really hard for the Kenyan consumers as well as businesses.  Gakuo is the Chief Executive Officer at Upstream Oil & Gas Ltd and the Founder, Upstream Awards. Email: jwatson@upstreamgrp.com 