Did you know that some of the Google Maps information on medical facilities is either fake or outdated? This revelation was made on Saturday when a team of Google Local Guide volunteers met at their Kenya offices. The guides found inaccuracies in most of the information that local facilities such as pharmacies, restaurants, hospitals provide on their websites and search engines. This brings to the fore dangers that could result from reliance on these details as millions of people rely on Google Maps. Google Africa Public Relations lead Dorothy Ooko noted the need for medical facilities to give accurate, reliable information on their addresses, telephone numbers, and opening and closing hours. "The information that the national and county governments provide needs to be accurate. If, for instance, there is an emergency, and you Google-Map and get wrong contacts or even those than no longer works, then chances of losing life become very high," Ooko said as she led over 30 guides in cleaning up some of the inaccurate information. "Imagine having an accident and using Google Maps. This information could save a life ... "We need a community of [local guides[ to map areas and give information that Google engineers did not." The guides are explorers who add reviews, photos and uncharted places to google maps, making it easier and more fun to navigate the world. They are ordinary Internet users who, under the Google Local Guide Programme, commit to sharing photos, writing reviews, answering questions, adding or editing places and checking facts on Google Maps. The team spruced up information on over 200 health facilities in a move aimed at enhancing access to health services through accurate and reliable information. They edited as much hospital and pharmacy information in Nairobi as possible - they made frantic calls, searched websites seeking information for various health facilities and edited and saved the correct details. During the exercise, major facilities such as Kenyatta National Hospital did not have working telephone numbers while some facilities were found to have moved or shut down. Other facilities cling to famous hospitals to get traffic and for others, contact information is for health workers who resigned. Ooko said the findings will be forwarded to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board as well as county and national governments. The official also spoke of facilities including hotels that do not have enough professionals to run their websites. "If accurate information is provided, people getting online to look for ideal restaurants or joints before a date, a pharmacy or even a health facility near them will benefit," she noted and urged organisations, that that offer critical services in particular, to be reviewing the accuracy of their information. Ooko reported that there are more than three million guides all over the world and that Kenya has close to 1,000. Three of those in Kenya have recently participated in global conferences, she said. According
to Nairobi Local Guides founder Koffi Kelvin, the more one updates Google Maps with accurate information, the more trust he or she will
gain. Kelvin said there are 500 local guides in Nairobi, 200 in Rift Valley and over 100 in other parts of the country. Click here for the latest political news