Nairobi MCAs have at least five bills to approve when they resume work after a two-month recess today. They have a full in-tray and unfinished business waiting for them when they return from their Christmas break Majority leader Abdi Guyo told the Star yesterday, the ward reps' immediate task is approval  of a supplementary budget prepared by the county treasury. “We want proposed changes reflected in our Sh35 billion budget in line with Governor Mike Sonko's vision and development agenda,” Guyo said. Ward reps will also determine the fate of the nominee for county secretary Peter Kariuki. Nairobi's 124 MCAs will also look at the County Integrated Development Plan and the Annual Development Plan. The State House official was vetted by the Sonko
Committee in December, but the panel did not table its report. The house went on recess before debating the findings. “Governor Sonko has not nominated chief
officers. However, it is also one of the issues we will deal with. Ward reps are supposed to vet the proposed nominees," he said. The Emergency Funds Bill and Valuations and
Ratings Bill - that seeks to have all property in the city valuated a fresh - are among the bills ward reps will debate. They will also amend the Finance Act to reduce some
trade charges, including parking fees, as promised by Sonko during the election campaigns. During the first session, the assembly was adjourned
several times for lack of quorum and business to be transacted. Speaker Beatrice
Elachi challenged the committees to come up with business. Guyo said, “Committees are ready. We want to get down to business. Nairobi residents deserve better services.” He said he has received a
petition from a member of the public to disband the County Public Service Board
for violating the Constitution. The board has been accused of defying the assembly’s
call to reinstate six inspectorate officers it sacked last year. Minority chief whip Peter Imwatok said, "As the opposition, we are ready to play our oversight role. We will put the administration on toes." Karen MCA David Mberia said NASA ward reps will reintroduce the People's Assembly motion. It was thwarted by Elachi last year. She rejected Imwatok's bid to move it.