One person has been killed and four others badly wounded in two separate attacks where thousands of cattle were stolen. In Laikipia East subcounty, one cattle rustler was shot dead by police pursuing bandits who stole 875 head of cattle at Ole Naishu on Thursday morning. Laikipia county commissioner Onesmus Musyoki said an AK-47 gun was recovered from the rustler. Musyoki said 60 heavily armed rustlers invaded the ranch and shot at the security officers stationed there before driving away the animals. By Friday, 102 head of cattle had been recovered. “Our officers are on the ground hunting the bandits and we are optimistic we will get them and the remaining animals,” he said. Musyoki said his officers are working with their colleagues from the neighbouring Isiolo county to seal all escape routes. The commissioner said investigations are being conducted establish the relationship between the management of the ranch and the surrounding community. Ranch manager Mike Roberts said he was working with the authorities to establish the root cause of the invasion. He said the ranch, which is a police operation area, has been invaded many times over the years. In a separate incident, cattle rustlers shot and wounded four villagers on the border of Elgeyo Marakwet and the West Pokot counties on Friday morning. Locals said the bandits, suspected to be from West Pokot county, raided Kipsitona and Kamelei villages, stealing at least 3,000 sheep and 500 cows in the 5am incident. The injured herders were rushed to Kapsowar Mission Hospital as locals fled the border. Charles Kosgei, a resident, said more than 100 bandits, armed with AK-47 rifles, invaded the villages and opened fire on herders. “That section of the border has been calm. We were shocked by the attack,” Kosgei said. Another resident identified as Jomo said most of victims sustained injuries in their stomachs and legs. “There is no police presence in the villages. For a long time, we have been pleading with the state to arrest bandits on the border, but no action has been taken,” Jomo said.