Girls as young as 12 years yesterday recounted horrific ordeals they underwent after being forcibly circumcised. This did not, however, dampen their spirits of being champions and crusaders against the retrogressive culture. One girl was only nine when her parent married her off to an old man. She was cut on the same day that was meant for her wedding. The experience left her traumatised and confused, seeing that she had been robbed of her childhood. Read: How emerging tricks are derailing fight against FGM “It was the worst thing that happened to me, something I cannot forget. I thank God for sending Dr Josephine Kuleya, who rescued me and ensured I went to school,” she said. Adorned in beautiful crafted beads and clad in a green dress and red sweater, the girl was not able to go deeper into her story, as the traumatic nature of the rite continues to trouble her. The brave young girl, now a Class Eight candidate, told an audience of young and old women that the practice must be shunned completely and eradicated because “no woman has to go through such pain”. “As a survivor, I would not want any other girl to go through what I went through. It was the worst experience I had as a child,” she said, as women leaders and girls flocked to the KICD, Nairobi, where Zero Tolerance to FGM was being marked. FGM continues to deny girls the opportunity to a safe, educated and healthy life. It increases exposure to violence and abuse, which result in early and unwanted pregnancies. The UN Population Fund says political will, community engagement and targetted investments are changing the practice and lives. This resonated well with the theme of “Ending FGM is a Political Decision — Building Bridges for Elimination of FGM in Kenya”. Sadia Hussein, who was part of the congregation, is a survivor of FGM. The woman from Tana River county has several times wished she could die because of what she went through. Hussein was cut at the age of 10 in the presence of 10 elderly women, who held her body tightly to ensure the procedure was a success. At the time, she did not know FGM was wrong. The pain was part of her pride, she said. “I thought it was something to be proud of. The problem began when I got married,” she said. Also read: [VIDEO] Why I am against the cut: FGM survivors speak out  Click here for the latest political news