Until yesterday,Friday, it appeared as if the international community was not aware of the media shutdown of three leading TV stations in the country. On Tuesday, Communication Authority of Kenya switched off Citizen TV, NTV and KTN on their free to air platforms, which is largely what the majority of Kenyans use to view these channels. On Thursday morning, a colleague asked me where the “vocal envoys on the move on narrative” were, since she had not heard any of them comment on the clampdown. I share her concern: Freedom of the press is a fundamental right of man recognised and protected by the law of all modern states. The switch off is also against the right to access information. Later on Thursday the US State Department tweeted, “The U.S. is gravely concerned by Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga’s self-“inauguration” on January 30. We reject actions that undermine #Kenya’s Constitution and the rule of law. @UKenyatta was elected as President of #Kenya on October 26, 2017.” No mention of the media shutdown. Speaking to journalists on Thursday in Nanyuki, UK High Commissioner Nic Hailey said interference with the freedom of the media is likely to tarnish Kenya’s image as a democratic state in the continent. “ I would urge the government to allow media to operate freely without intimidation.” These comments, in my view, would have been more relevant before Tuesday since the media had been threatened last Friday with shutdown, if it went ahead with broadcasting Raila Odinga’s oathing, according to a report by NTV, and Editors Guild chairman Linus Kaikai’s press statement on Monday. Commenting on the Kenyan situation yesterday, European Union spokesperson for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Catherine Ray said, “It is important that all actors respect the Kenyan Constitution and the rule of law. This includes recognising the outcome of the elections and the re-election of President [Uhuru] Kenyatta. It also means the respect of freedoms of assembly, media and speech and implies lifting any ban on media operating within the law.” The High Court on Thursday ordered the three TV stations to be switched on but it was reported Okiya Omtatah, the activist who challenged government’s shutdown, had been prevented from serving the Communications Authority. Freedom of the press in America is protected by the First Amendment to the US Constitution. This is to prevent the government from interfering with the distribution of information and opinions. I, therefore, expected the US Embassy, and other foreign representative s who share this value, to be on the forefront in calling out the government over this switch off.  Kibii comments on current and international affairs