A total of 24 crews will start in the opening round of the 2018 Kenya National Rally Championship at Top Fry Nakuru Rally this weekend. Defending champion Ian Duncan will be among the drivers to beat in the seeded entry list while homeboy Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo will be back to steer a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. Last year’s winner Onkar Rai and reigning African Rally champion Manvir Baryan are the two youngster drivers who will be driving the much-anticipated Skoda Fabia R5. Skoda Fabia R5 made history last year by winning the season-opening rally in Mombasa, the Fly 540 Rally in Kajiado and the penultimate Nakuru. The million dollar question is, will Skoda magic come into perspective on the season opening event in Nakuru this weekend? Hamza Amwar, son of former Nanyuki Rally winner Asad Anwar and Lovejyot Singh will make their first appearance in the eight-legged series after graduating from the KCB National Autocross series. A fabulous fight is expected in the Two Wheel Drive category, which has attracted speed merchant Sammy Nyorri in his traditional Proflex suspension driven Toyota Run X and Hamza, who will be in an ex-Alex Lairangi Toyota Sprinter, a championship winning car with Dennis Mwenda aka Dere Mwenda. Karan Patel, navigated by James Mwangi in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10, will be the first off the ramp in the Rift Valley Motor and Sports Club — organized event.. Youngster Karan will be followed by Duncan, in a similar Group N Mitsubishi Lancer. Duncan will, however, be without his regular navigator Amaar Slatch, who will be replaced by Anthony Nielsen, is a former three-time Open Class Motocross Champion. Third off the ramp is Jaspreet Chatthe in a R4 Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. Like Duncan, Chatthe has enlisted the services of a new navigator in James Morgan. The young Welsh navigator will be making his début on the KNRC, hoping for the best in the Great Rift. Rai returns to his home event hoping to give Skoda Fabia a second successive win. He will be followed in the seeded list by Kabras Sugar teammate Baldev Chager. Mombasa will be represented by two drivers in Sohanjeet Singh Puee and Amaar ‘Bushy’ Haq of Yalfa Rally Team NEWCOMER’S JOY After last weekend’s KCB Autocross.2, Lovejyot Singh prepares to make his KNRC debut this weekend navigated by Linet Ayuko. “The race was good. The car was running perfectly well. It was a good test. I made a few mistakes which cost me my second position by just a second. It’s my KNRC debut and I’m very excited for it. I can’t wait to be in Nakuru this weekend,” said Lovejyot.