Gazing at Ol Bolossat under a blazing sun and cloudless sky, resident Elizabeth Nyambura worries that this lake, the only one in Nyandarua county, could disappear on her watch. “This lake used to cover a large area but has shrunk at an alarming rate,” she said. Nyambura, 52, remembers with nostalgia how in the 80s hippos could be seen bathing and resting in broad daylight. Grass flourished along the bank of the lake, and it used to provide a spectacular scene. But all that is history now. “We will not want to die having contributed to the death of this lake,” Nyambura said. And she is not the only one fearing the worst. Thousands of pastoralists and their herds, as well as wildlife downstream, depend on the lake, as it is the source of the Ewaso Ng’iro river, which traverses Isiolo, Laikipia and Samburu counties and has some 3.6 million dependents. The lake was given a new lease of life when outgoing Environment CS Judi Wakhungu declared it a protected area. Wakhungu made the declaration on February 2 during the World Wetlands Day celebrations, much to the relief of environmentalists who had long pushed for it. “The documents are now with the Attorney General, but the effective date of the gazzetement of Lake Ol Bolossat was January 24,” she said. WATER CRISIS LOOMING The Water Resource Management Authority said there is a crisis at the moment as a result of diminishing water levels in rivers. WRMA regional manager Timothy Mutie blames it on natural and artificial causes. “Drought has left rivers inadequately recharged. The challenge is that the people upstream have depleted waters, such that those downstream cannot meet their requirements,” Mutie said, adding that in some cases, the reserve, which is supposed to be there by law and basic human needs, is being violated. Similar water conflicts are common throughout the region. The rivers coming from Aberdares and Mount Kenya spark similar tangles over use. A rationing programme has been prepared and is being enforced by WRMA in conjunction with the Water Resources Users Association, county government and environmental agencies. Another threat to Lake Ol Bolossat is encroachment. “People are cultivating and planting Eucalyptus trees very close to the water. Also a lot of soil erosion is taking place because of poor land use in the slopes up stream, and that soil, together with chemicals, is being washed into the lake,” he said. Mutie said the lake volume is being diminished as a result. He said the wanton clearing of vegetation along the lake has affected the recharge pattern, hurting water flows. He said pollution in the lake has also affected water quality. Impact Kenya programme officer Joseph Olendira said one of the problems they face in Laikipia and Samburu is water shortage. Impact supports the pastoralist and indigenous people in Laikipia and Samburu. Olendira said climate change and people living upstream have made those downstream go without water for months. “When farmers and investors with big farms divert water to their farms, flow of water downstream is limited,” he said. Pastoralists tend to bring their cows upwards when they do not have water, generating conflict. “That is why during the dry season, we come up to Aberdares and Mount Kenya because of that water,” he said. “Once we obstruct upstream, the tributaries that flow into Ewaso will not be there,” Olendira said. He said they are planning to form an alliance of water users from Nyandarua, Laikipia, Samburu and Isiolo counties. “First we need to tell the people the roles of water users and build the capacity of water resource users associations all over,” Olendira said. Olendira said this will help people upstream to appreciate the challenges faced by those downstream. ‘KIDNEYS OF THE LAND’ Wetlands International communications manager Joy Kivata blamed the water shortages on wanton destruction of wetlands. She said wetlands, which are widely referred to as the “kidneys of the landscape”, are critical in the functioning of the world hydrological and chemical samples. They protect shores from wave action, reduce the impact of floods, absorb pollutants and improve water quality. They also provide habitat for animals and plants. Concerns have been raised over the current overload of wetlands, threatening water security. “This is the reason why our organisation and other line agencies have come together to promote sustainable approaches to the utilisation of this critical resource,” Kivata said. “As leaders, we want to give this our all to ensure future generations of Kenyans, here in Nyandarua and downstream, benefit from this critical resource.” Already, Wetlands International has proposed various amendments to policies guiding wetlands in the country. It says this will give wetlands the protection they need. For lakes, the organisation is proposing the distance of any construction be 50m, while for the big river, it is 30m. For oceans, it is 60m, while for small rivers, it is twice the width of the affected river. Africa Network for Animal Welfare officer Dr Dennis Bahati said wetlands cannot be divorced from the welfare of animals. He said Lake Ol Bolossat provides physical and psychological freedoms for the wildlife. “Wildlife encounter fear and distress when they encounter human beings. People have encroached on their habitat, and that is why conflict has escalated,” he said, adding that this affects the freedoms of wildlife. STATE PROTECTION The lake became a protected area on January 24. For Nyambura, her dream had come to pass. Following the declaration, National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri announced that all title deeds for the land stood dissolved. Swazuri said according to the Lands Act, 2012, the issuing of a gazette notice means the title deed of the land in question, and any others issued prior to the notice, cease. “In other words, once the notice has been given in favour of one person, no other person should hold another title deed. The implication is that all other titles in the area literally die,” he said. Swazuri said he visited the lake in 2015 and informed those living in the area that their titles were illegal, but they ignored him. NLC is set to publish notices in national newspapers and after their expiry, the Nyandarua governor and county commissioner will lead forceful evictions. “According to Land Laws Amendment Act, 2016, we are giving you 90 days to vacate,” Swazuri said. Boundaries of the lake are set to be re-established. Wildlife PS Margaret Mwakima said once the lake has been fenced, human-wildlife conflict will drastically reduce. The PS urged residents to coexist with wildlife. Tourism CS Najib Balala said the ministry will market the lake to have it included in the tourism circuit. 