Residents of Baringo county have reported illegal loggers who are out to fell indigenous trees without licences. On Sunday, residents of Kamuser in Baringo North subcounty reported loggers who cut trees and sell posts, firewood and timber to unsuspecting clients. “I have reported the suspects to the county forest service. The arrests are yet to be made as some of the culprits claim they are licensed,” Bartolimo assistant chief Nicolas Bowen said yesterday. Loggers target red cider trees, which are outlawed and hardly licensed by the Kenyan government. They in turn sell the products to unsuspecting clients in Sibilo, Rondinin, Koindui and Kipcherere. Reached for comment, Baringo North forester James Wanjia said the illegal loggers threaten the Tugen hills forests starting from Kituro, Katimok and Kipsaraman. “It is true the chief reported to us the incident on Saturday, but we are still looking for the suspects,” he said. Wanjia called on the chief to produce a comprehensive list of the loggers. He denied the forestry agency issued licences to individuals to destroy forests. “We issued specific licences to cut dried up trees for firewood, but the individuals seem to have misused them by conducting illegal business. We shall revoke their licences immediately.” Meanwhile, on Friday last week, Eldama Ravine MCA Julius Ng’otie sought a statement from the house Environment and Natural Resources team chairperson. Ng’otie questioned whether the chairperson was aware of the massive logging and harvest of timber in Eldama Ravine and it’s environs. He blamed the illegal lumberjacks on multinational companies and sawmillers from outside Baringo such as Nakuru and Uasin Gishu. “Is the county aware the roads were also being damaged and rendered impassable by the heavy trucks transporting the illegal logs? The county government is tasked to allocate unnecessary budget to repair them,” Ngotie said. He added that the unscrupulous loggers and sawmillers do not contribute a single cent to the county revenue. Read:No illegal logging in forests, says KFS Also Read:State sets up taskforce on illegal logging 