Cabinet Secretary nominee Margaret Kobia has pledged to bring in honesty and credibility to the Public Service and Youth Affairs docket. She told the Committee on Appointments during her vetting on Thursday that she is ready to serve the people and that she is competent for the job. "I am convinced that I am the right person for this job. I bring a wide knowledge and experience from the studies i have done," she said. She said in the almost 10-minute introduction that her PhD in Human Resource from University of Illinois has prepared her with the skills required for the job. "It gave me enough knowledge to champion such a ministry. I will partner and work with everyone and work with other ministries," she said. Clad in a sky blue coat and a navy blue dress, Kobia said she is well aware of issues that deals with the youth, gender and women empowerment. "Gender isn't about women, it's about equity, equality and women empowerment. I have done studies on women issues in leadership and the women Enterprise Fund. I am well conversant with the issues," she said. 'Retirement age' Kobia said she would retain the retirement age for public servants at 60 years. "We retire people at 60 years of age. If public service is efficient, it will create a thriving environment for private sector. I'd rather we keep the retirement age at 60." The former Public Service Commission chair said the percentage of those on extended term after retirement is less than 1 per cent of the population. "For one to be retained, the agency must justify. It must be based on special skills. We must, however, streamline succession management," she said. But she noted that there are people who have stagnated for long in their jobs adding that a promotion should be done to them. "It's true there are people who have stagnated for long. We need to review where the job is done, and reduce bureaucracy," she said. Kobia said If there are vacancies and ministries are not declaring them, as the ministry of public service they will to get data. "We will then follow each employee and see where positions exist. A motivated staff is obviously going to be more productive," she added. "Promotion in public service is very clear, after every 3 years. But from job group M, there has to be an annual evaluation and interviews that look for specific attributes." 'Youth Fund' Kobia said she will take time to study Youth Fund after a scandal broke out in the last two years. President Uhuru Kenyatta last year revoked the appointment of Youth Fund chairman Bruce Odhiambo. Among officials probed over the matter are former Planning PS Peter Mangiti and former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru. Outgoing Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki said on March 2 that the amount is what is missing from the Youth Fund, not Sh400 million. More on this: Uhuru fires Bruce Odhiambo amid probe into Sh180m youth fund scandal "I believe right now there is that negative publicity that the Youth Fund has been misappropriated. I am a very structured person and having an affirmative fund is a step in the right direction," Kobia said. "The uptake of these funds has been low, maybe because people don't understand how to get them. We should help in easing the process." Noting that changes have been made in the Youth Fund, Kobia said she has a very strong in building institutional capacity and structures. "That's what I bring to Youth Fund and other agencies in the ministries. Should anyone try to misappropriate funds under my watch, he/she will dealt with according to the law. The money under my watch will be used for intended purposes," she said. NASA MPs boycotted the vetting of Cabinet nominees which kicked off at Parliament buildings on Thursday. The vetting started at around 9.30am on Thursday and was attended by Jubilee MPs who are members of the Appointments Committee. The committee is chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi. Read: Nasa skips Cabinet vetting as Gender CS nominee Margaret Kobia faces MPs National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi wrote to the speaker stating that the opposition will not take part in the process. Read: NASA won't give names of members to vet CSs, Mbadi tells Muturi Click here for the latest political news  