Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday defended his decision to declare lawyer Miguna Miguna a prohibit immigrant. The CS was responding to a suit filed by the deported lawyer. Matiang’i said his decision was within the law.He said the self-declared NRM   General cannot be allowed to benefit from his blatant defiance of express provisions of the Constitution, as he obtained his Kenyan passport illegally through political patronage. Read: The 'movie script' of general Miguna's deportation after Raila oath Related: Extracts of affidavit to justify Miguna’s deportationThus, the CS wants Justice Chacha Mwita, who is handling a case Miguna filed through lawyer Nelson Havi, to dismiss it. “Joshua Miguna lost his citizenship by operation of law upon acquiring his Canadian citizenship,” the CS said in an affidavit. On Thursday, Justice Luka Kimaru declared Muguna’s deportation to Canada “null and void and of no legal effect”. The judge said Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Director of Criminal Investigation George Kinoti and Immigration boss Gordon Kihalangwa colluded to defeat justice. Read: Miguna deportation illegal, surrender his passports, Kimaru orders“I was informed by the Director of Immigration that Kenyans who became foreign citizens, who after the 2010 Constitution got back into the country and obtained Kenyan identification documents, cannot claim citizenship using the court process,” the CS said. He said he is aware  Section 97 of the old Constitution provided that a Kenyan who was also a citizen of another country ceased to be a citizen unless he renounced his citizenship of the other country and taken an oath of allegiance.The CS denied disobeying court orders, arguing that he had never been served by anyone.“I have never been issued with any order, personally or by substituted service. I have never received any order directing me to do or refrain from doing anything.”Miguna is fighting the decision by the government cancelling his passport and citizenship, arguing that he is a Kenyan as he has never renounced his citizenship. Read: I'll fight to the end, defiant Miguna says after deportation  Click here for the latest political
news