Massive unemployment, corruption and poverty remain the top three concerns for Kenyan youths, Tifa has reported. In a report released on Tuesday, Trends and Insights for Africa said 27 per cent of university students are concerned about world problems such as global warming. Sixteen per cent are worried about the lack of jobs, 15 per cent about graft and 12 per cent about poverty. Only 10 per cent are concerned about pollution and eight per cent about terrorism. In December last year, the researcher reported that 53 per cent of Kenyan youths were unemployed. Of the unemployed, 94 per cent were actively looking for jobs while six per cent were passive. But Tifa noted challenges in Kenya's job market such as layoffs in sectors such as the media, IT, NGO business, insurance and banking. Details: 53 per cent Kenyan youths do not have jobs - Tifa Also read: Access to mobile phones won’t magically fix youth unemployment in Africa A majority of the learners - 98 per cent - feels Sustainable Development Goals cab be used to solve the socio-economic problems the country is facing. But Tifa Managing Director Maggie Ireri said they established that 55 per cent of university students are not aware of the SDGs. Only 45 per cent of learners across the country are aware of the 17 goals compared to 54 per cent of their counterparts across the world. The research found that 69 per cent of students - the highest portion - were knowledgeable about education (SDG4). Gender equality (SDG5) had a rate of 65 per cent, clean water and sanitation (SDG6) 62 per cent and good health and wellbeing (SDG3) 63 per cent. Ireri reported that Kenya's rate of SDG awareness globally stood at 45 per cent. India's rate is 78 per cent while that of the United States is 69 per cent. "This below average mark is a clear indication that awareness of the SDGs has not been fully implemented. We are still talking about them in boardrooms and workshops instead of talking about them on the streets." The survey was conducted in January, at 40 universities where a total of 644 people were interviewed. In terms of involvement, Ireri said 62 per cent of the respondents have taken part in activities linked to the attainment of SDGs in the last 12 months. More involvement was recorded among post-graduate students (83 per cent), compared to undergraduate students (61 per cent). In terms of gender, 65 per cent of males said they had participated in such activities compared to 58 per cent of females. "The survey shows there is overwhelming support for the SDGs. This translated to high interest in assisting Kenya achieve them," she said. "The challenge is to provide information to the youth and [tell them how] his can be done." The 2017 regional report on Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals said there were still many bottlenecks watering down gains. Slow progress had been made in reducing poverty and inequality, the report stated, and attributed the state of affairs to limited decent employment opportunities and weak social insurance mechanisms. Details: How Kenya-led process gave the world SDGs Also read: Meeting SDGs, Agenda 2063 a tall order, shows report Click here for the latest political new