The indigenous community of Boni Forest is free to return to the woodland, despite the ongoing anti-terror operation, Assistant IG Douglas Kirocho said yesterday. Speaking in Lamu, the police commander, who is in charge of Operation Linda Boni, said no one had been denied access into the forest. Boni was declared a no-go zone in 2015 by the army. It launched the security operation to flush out al Shabaab militants who hid in the forest and launched attacks. But Kiricho termed untrue, biased and unfounded the claims that Operation Linda Boni prohibited locals from entering the forest. Kirocho said the government’s primary objective has been to enhance livelihoods and provide adequate security.  no prayers This came days after the community urged the government to allow them into the forest, which is their main source of livelihood. The Boni are hunters and gatherers. “Locals are allowed to venture into Boni Forest at will...on many occasions patrol teams participating in the operation have met with cattle herders going about their business deep inside the forest and have not interfered with them,” Kiricho said. “The locals are ordinarily allowed to move freely in and out of Boni forest,except in rare cases where we feel their safety could be compromised.” The Boni occupy Pandanguo, Bar’goni, Milimani, Basuba, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe villages in Lamu East. The community had been complaining and begging to be allowed back into the forest but security bosses said all residents had to stay away until the operation was over. The community has for decades depended on the forest for their survival. Their shrines are inside the forest, meaning the community has not held prayer rituals since 2015. The Boni have resisted efforts to get them to take up farming as an alternative means of livelihood. They say they were meant to be forest people, not farmers. Kirocho warned locals against venturing into gazetted conservation areas. In June 2015 al Shabaab attempted to take over Baure military camp. In another incident hundreds of al Shabaab militants raided a village in Basuba and lectured residents against giving information about them to security agencies.