Musalia Mudavadi should decamp from Nasa to Jubilee Party as the Opposition has nothing to offer Western, Charles Njagua has said. Njagua, known better as musician Jaguar, is the Member of Parliament for Starehe constituency. Jaguar said the region is "fully inside the Jubilee government" as residents voted in large numbers for DP William Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta. The ruling coalition won six of the nine Bungoma MP seats in the August 8, 2017 election, despite being the home of Nasa principal Moses Wetang'ula. Wetang'ula is the Senator of the county and the leader of Ford Kenya party. Jaguar asked leaders and residents to embrace the party that has a lot in store for electorates and will improve their lives. "I humbly ask my brother and friend Mudavadi to be wise and stop being lied to and misled in the Opposition. He should join the party that has many goodies in store," he said at Milo Secondary School in Webuye West. He was with Ruto, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama, Gatundu South's Moses Kuria, Kitutu Chache's Shadrack Mose, Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musimabo and Nzoia Sugar Company chairman Joash Wamangoli. Jaguar said: "I thank you, the people of Webuye and Bungoma, for electing Wanyama and other Jubilee MPs on Jubilee tickets. I want you to support them so they deliver their promises. I see you people were very wise so Jubilee won the presidency." He also thanked residents for "giving us a very sober Senate Speaker". The first-time MP laughed at the Opposition saying it is headed for division ahead of the 2022 general election as it is not organised. Mudavadi, Wetang'ula united with Opposition leader Raila Odinga (ODM) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) to form a strong force to take on Uhuru and Ruto. The coalition's stability has been questioned because of events that followed the disputed election. The four could all run for president in the next five years. On Friday, Raila termed their problems as normal sibling rivalry. More on this: Nasa troubles a case of 'normal sibling rivalry', says Raila Regarding State House, the MP noted Jubilee already knows that Ruto will carry the flag that year. "He will carry the day in the morning [of voting day]," he said. "We know Jubilee is a party that has the face of Kenya. We want to join hands and bring development in this region since politics is now over." Jaguar described the President as a ruler who cares about the people's needs. "We want him to hand the mantle to a hustler who will even be more concerned," he said and drummed up support for Ruto for the 2022 race. "I also used to burn plastic items and repair them in Nyeri town but the Lord has raised me to an MP. Everything is possible if you believe. Some leaders are too wordy yet they lack actions. We want a hustler President who will assist sufferers." Ruto honoured his pledge last year to give the school Sh5 million. He then toured Sirisia constituency where he attended a funds drive at Namwela Secondary School. Related: Ruto warns against fictitious fees, says all schools will get books Also read: Ruto stops timber harvesting at all forests for 90 days Click here for the latest political news  