Africans are still grappling with the remarks allegedly made by US President Donald Trump a few weeks ago referring to African nations as “shithole” countries. He was retorting to a proposal by some US senators to extend certain protections for immigrants from Africa, instead of countries such as Norway – a northern European, a Scandinavian country. Mind you, his predecessor, a man largely admired the world over, whose legacy he has tried to wipe out, is a product of a Luo from Kenya. To any self-respecting African, Trump’s words should be painfully piercing, saddening and disturbing. Sadly, his words also serve to showcase the walking contradiction that is Africa. Africa is blessed with an abundance of minerals, rain forests, sandy beaches, natural scenery and according to geneticists — the largest genetic diversity of all populations in the world. Africa is also the continent most ravaged by war, famine, malnutrition, HIV-Aids, infant mortality, malaria, impunity, bad leadership, tribalism, illiteracy, poverty, lack of certain amenities such as running clean water, above par housing and essential medical services. Africa is a huge and diverse continent composed of various peoples speaking thousands of languages. A vast majority of these countries have a common legacy of colonialism, mainly under the British and the French, and to a smaller extent under Italy, Germany, Belgium, Spain and Portugal. Africa has had its share of bad leaders, who viewed national resources as private property used as a political carrot to reward or alienate. Africa’s natural resources have become a curse rather than a blessing because resources such as oil or diamonds tend to fuel civil war rather than lift its populations. This is a stark contrast to the Arabic countries, which have used oil revenue as a means of improving the standards of living for their populations – human rights standards notwithstanding. Authoritarianism,, self-enrichment, tribalism scapegoating, a disdain for true democracy and human rights such as free speech and contrary opinions, accountability and transparency have created a lethal cocktail that has stagnated growth and the improvement of the lives of many African citizens. Even when growth is registered, it only occurs among politically correct circles, thereby fuelling further dissent and sometimes conflict. However, unfair trade practices by developed countries and large multinationals have also significantly contributed to the situation in Africa. For instance, the Democratic Republic of Congo, a mineral rich country that also has one of the worst living standards in the world, is the largest source of tantalum, a rare mineral used in the manufacture of all cell phones, laptops, hard drives, and gaming devices. The rarity of tantalum and its utility in almost all digital devices has fuelled deadly conflicts that continue to date, yet these conflicts have somehow not slowed down the mining of tantalum. Those mining this mineral do so in slave-like conditions. For some reason, the ammunition that maintain the mineral wars in the DRC is from the same developed countries, the US included, that will ultimately use the minerals in their gadgets. A year 2009 leaked report by Norwegian Subsidiary Grant Thorton, hired by the government of Zambia, found that Mopani Copper Mines of Zambia, which is owned by an Anglo-Swiss company called Glencore, was scamming the Zambian government of £76 million in taxes trough an intricate and complicated scheme that included inflating operation costs. It would the sell mined copper to its offshore subsidiary at very low prices usually in a tax heaven; and, toxic contracts with the government that ensured it would pay all mining electricity bills which were very high. Interestingly, the government declined to investigate the tax compliance affairs of Mopani — lending credence to the shameless complicity of African leaders in the looting of Africa. Botswana and Ghana came out strongly to condemn Trump’s statement whilst Kenya took a wait and see approach, saying she was “studying the context in which these statements were made and see whether it is worth the attention.” The UN and the African Union similarly condemned Trump. But when does Africa finally answer to its own people regarding its state of affairs? How can the African Union be taken seriously when it was revealed that China had bugged the new AU building it built for them? Meanwhile, President Trump is not known for his intellect or a grasp of facts. In fact, according to the Migration Policy Institute — a Washington -based think tank — on average, African immigrants to the US are better educated than people born there or the immigrant population as a whole. History has shown us that countries, especially countries with natural resources and incredible human resources can move from poverty to prosperity within one or two generations. Norway did it by the mid-20th century and the tiger economies, such as Singapore, did it in the tail end. However, this is only possible for Africa if our leaders pursue economic ties and deals that are calculated to raise everyone’s’ standard of living instead of a select few. Moreover, strong institutions, human rights, the rule of law and equality before the law are a must.