Over 50 lawyers turned up in court on Tuesday in support of
self-proclaimed NRM general Miguna Miguna. This was even after IG Boinnet and DCI George
Kinoti snubbed court orders requiring them to produce the lawyer. The IG and the DCI had been ordered to appear before Justice
Luka Kimaru at 9 am but failed to show up. Instead, Boinnet sent his junior named Stanley Cheruiyot, an
assistant and director of legal affairs. On his part, DCI sent SSP legal affairs officer Amos
Omuga to represent him in court. Deputy DPP Nicholas Mutuko kicked
off by assuring the court that contrary to rumours, Miguna was alive and well
and had been arraigned in Kajiado. Also read: Court orders IG Boinnet, DCI to produce Miguna Miguna by 2pm Defence lawyers, however, demanded that the two police
representatives be detained at Milimani cells until their bosses show up in
court with Miguna. But the officials said the two were not party to the proceedings. Miguna’s
defence team was led by Otiende Amolo and John Khaminwa. "We do not listen to
stories until Miguna Miguna is brought to court dead or alive and then we can
hear any other explanation," Amolo said. Khaminwa said the state has
continually used the national security concept to commit a lot of crimes
including arresting opponents without charging them in a court of law. "As a
country, let us reject it, let us have Miguna here," Khaminwa said and asked
the court to issue an order against the tendency. The prosecution told the court that Boinnet and Kinoti could
not show up because they were attending a national security meeting. Defence lawyers urged the court to suspend the proceedings
at Kajiado law court and transfer Miguna to Milimani as ordered by the court
on Monday. They accused the police of abusing the court process by
arraigning him at Kajiado. They insisted that he should be charged within Nairobi where
the offence is accused of was committed. The lawyers also said the charge sheet looked suspicious
since the letter head was that of the defunct “Kenya police” instead of the National
Police Service. They also said the charge sheet had been signed by the
officer in charge of the Central Police station and not the DPP as required by
law. Read: Miguna charged in Kajiado court, refuses to take plea Click here for the latest political news 