This weekend could mark end of the road for trouble-ridden Muhoroni Youth in the Nationwide League if they fail to honour their third match of the season against Nairobi City Stars today. Muhoroni are staring at an expulsion from the league in line with Football Kenya Federation (FKF) statutes, which recommends relegation for any side that gives three walkovers in a season. Since their demotion from the Kenya Premier League (KPL) at the end of the 2017 season, Muhoroni have missed the opening two Nationwide League matches and their third against City Stars remains uncertain. The team dished two walkovers to Kenya Commercial Bank and Kenya Police and should they forfeit their third, they will be pushed to the lesser Division One League. This meant that KCB and Police reap three points and two goals without breaking sweat. FKF communications officer, Barry Otieno said they are watching to see what Muhoroni will do against City Stars before taking the necessary action. “Giving three walkovers in season amounts to relegation to Division One. We are aware Muhoroni have given two walkovers so far and should they dish a third one, we will not hesitate to demote them.” If FKF effect their threat, It will mean that Muhoroni remain out of action for the entire season awaiting admission to the lower tie in 2019. “If they are relegated, they will be out of action till 2019 when they will take part in the Division One. They can not be admitted right now since the league has begun hence their admission will disrupt the smooth running of event.” As Muhoroni chances of honouring the match is down to speculation, their opponents for the weekend duel, Nairobi City Stars’ head coach John Amboko has expressed his side’s readiness for the match. Amboko said his charges will honour the match whether Muhoroni will be available or not. “We are ready for the match. We will do our part which is getting to the venue (Camp Toyoyo) in time and prepare for the contest. We haven’t heard from them and their failure to show up will not derail our preparedness for the match.” In other fixtures set for the weekend, leaders Isibania hope to extend their stay at the top of the log when they face Western Stima at Awendo Stadium. At Hope Centre, Kibera Black Stars will collide with Nakuru All Stars before paving way for Kangemi All Stars to confront Administration Police. The Hope Centre double header will be beamed live on Bamba Sport. League newbies Kisumu All Stars host GFE 105 at Moi Stadium, Kisumu while fellow debutants Green Commandoes play FC Talanta at Bukhungu. At Mbaraki Stadium, Kenya Power sponsored clubs Coast Stima and Nairobi Stima will clash while St Joseph Youth face Bidco United at Afraha Stadium. Kenya Police confront Modern Coast Rangers at Karuturi Grounds as Ushuru and KCB play at Toyoyo.