DP William Ruto has urged opposition leaders to unite and work together with the government for the benefit of the country. He said the politicking phase was over and it was time leaders came together regardless of their political affiliation and drive the country's development agenda. "Our big brother Raila [Odinga], Kalonzo [Musyoka], Musalia [Mudavadi] and [Moses] Wetangula are all our friends. We are telling them politics are over and we now need to drive the country's development. There's no need of fighting because this is our country irrespective of who is in power," Ruto said. Read: 'God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto Related: Are these NASA’s deathbed throes? He spoke on Saturday at Sirisia Sub County Hospital in Bungoma County. Ruto assured Bungoma governor Wycliffe Wangamati that the Jubilee administration was ready to work with him for the sake of the county's development. "We are ready to work with all the leaders of this county. It is not time for us to say he's not in our party. Voters made their decision and in their wisdom they gave the governor's seat to Ford Kenya." Ruto pledged Sh100 million from the government for the upgrade of the x-ray and theater facilities and improvement of the physical structures of the hospital. “I have informed PS Health, Peter Tum to work with the Bungoma County CEC to fast track the disbursement and implementation framework.” Related: Relief as Kajiado hospital gets first five renal dialysis units The DP was accompanied with Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka, several cabinet secretaries and MPs. They include Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Bungoma Deputy Governnor Ngome Kibanani and MPs John Waluke (Sirisia), Dan Wanyama (Webuye), Charles Kanyi Njagua (Starehe) and Oscar Sudi (Kapseret). Others are Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East) and Shadrack Mose (Kitutu Masaba). Communications Authority Director General Francis Wangusi was also present. Later, the leaders attended a fundraiser at Namwela Boys’ High School where Ruto donated Sh2 million and pledged Sh20 million from the government. Lusaka gave a personal donation of Sh300,000. "As leaders, we need to come together and support the government of the day. When a county government such as this one (Bungoma) works with the national government, our residents will benefit," Lusaka said. The DP also toured the construction project of Sirisia Teachers’ Training College which is 80 percent complete. He said the government has ordered for equipment worth Sh250 million which will be used in the institution and five others in the county. "This will ensure that students who finish high school are absorbed into these institutions where they shall be forged into formidable workforce for this country.” The DP also promised that the government would work with the Bungoma county government to complete various roads. Further, he said Sh8 million to be injected towards the Last Mile Connectivity Programme. Speaker Lusaka thanked the DP for his commitment to the development agenda of Bungoma County and the country.  Click here for the latest political news