Riot police used teargas to disperse angry villagers who had blocked the survey and fencing of a disputed parcel of land claimed by the new CS for Lands, Farida Karoney, in Nandi. More than 30 police officers were on Friday deployed to the land and chased away the villagers to ensure the work was done. Karoney had obtained a court order. The surveyors and workers ferried in a lorry quickly fenced off the disputed 16 acres and an additional 34 acres of riparian land located in the area. [VIDEO] Nine Cabinet secretaries pledge to uphold law at swearing-in “We have orders to ensure the court order is implemented and that is why we are here,” Mosorot OCS Nelson Pera, who led the team, said. Sironoy residents protested the move, but were repulsed by the police. This happened just hours after Karoney was sworn into office. The land is claimed by the family of a former MCA, Amos Korir. A court in Kapsabet had  issued orders for the land to be surveyed and fenced, but Korir’s family resisted the move, saying they own the land. Villagers opposed the survey work, arguing that the dispute in court must be settled first. Karoney produced documents showing she bought the land from Linus Kogo in 2017. The farm was originally owned by the late Maria Chelagat, who allegedly sold part of it to Korir’s family in 1968. Korir’s family says it has lived on the land for more than 50 years. Read: Chelugui richest Cabinet nominee with Sh796m net worth, Tobiko at Sh360m - report “All we want is justice. We respect court orders, but we must be heard because all the villagers here know that the land belongs to our family,” said Korir. He is a brother of Athletics Kenya official Barnabas Korir, who was also present at the farm. “All we want is justice. We respect court orders but we must be heard because even all the villagers here know that the land belongs to our family”, said Korir. Karoney sued brothers Amos, Barnabas and William Korir for seeking to take over the land. Senior Resident Magistrate Kesse Cherono issued orders for the survey of the land but Korir family argued that the orders did not include fencing it and that the purchase was fraudulently done by the seller. “The district surveyor and land registrar are hereby directed to move to the suit land and survey it for purposes of establishing boundaries and fencing it”, ordered the magistrate on February 12th.  Click here for the latest political news