Kenyans on Twitter have trolled Deputy President William Ruto following his observation of a wrong spelling of integrity on a bus he claimed belongs to the University of Eldoret. “Was driving behind this bus belonging to Eldoret University in my hometown. Either the spelling of integrity has changed or my vocabulary is limited!” Was driving behind this bus belonging to Eldoret university in my hometown. Either the spelling of integrity has changed or my vocabulary is limited! pic.twitter.com/b3KPxqQDVC The bus, which others argued belongs to a sacco operating between Eldoret town and the University, has the motto written as: “Service with intergrity.” Furthermore, the bus has a yellow plate and not the blue ones assigned to parastatals and state institutions of learning. While a section of his followers taunted him for commenting on what they termed a 'non issue', others said the DP should be the last to speak on matters integrity. Politicians, especially from NASA, campaigned against Jubilee citing corruption in the Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto administration. Largely, they pointed fingers at the DP amid allegations touching on land deals, how he acquired his vast estates, and graft. The DP has over time denied any wrongdoing on the issues raised against him dismissing those perpetrating the same as just being envious of his fast rising political star. Read: I’m no killer, land grabber – DP Ruto After the tweet, @NjoraJohn said: “Maybe it wanted to remind you how integrity is hard to acquire.” @mogirejason said: “As a tax compliant [sic], I do pay my Deputy president huge sums of money only to get his attention to non issue out of the Big 4 Agenda of development.” @AlooBernado added: “How coincidental, you're the one to spot "integrity" wrongly spelt. God communicates in so many ways. You're a staunch Christian, you understand this, right?” @SirRaymondSefu said: “Invest in education, this is the result of rewarding unworthy people to lead institutions, whilst the learned are left to succumb to such road filth. Call me for advise.” Sheilla Bahati, another twitter user, said: “Exactly what integrity has been turned into with the current leadership, just as the people concerned will correct it, hope latter applies.” Read: Ruto was sacked for failing integrity test, not sugar - Martha Karua Also Read: Uhuru, Ruto integrity case postponed until January 17 Click here for the latest political news