The Health ministry will use extensive dialogue to ensure doctors and other medical workers do not strike, minister Sicily Kariuki has said. The Cabinet Secretary said health workers should exhaust talks for their grievances to be resolved instead of resorting to industrial action that leaves many suffering. “Strikes can be avoided by continuous engagement with workers and other stakeholders on resolving pending issues," she said on Thursday. “We all went to school ... we should find solutions [to problems], not postpone issues. We can't always put strikes on hold. We must find permanent solutions." Regarding KMPDU's threat to strike over unpaid allowances for doctor-lecturers, the CS reported that negotiations were underway. "Their demands will be addressed," she said. "The health sector is very important. I will focus on the human resource issue which, if not tackled, will undermine the government's universal health coverage plan." On January 19, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union threatened to call for a doctors' strike in February over failure by universities and medical colleges to pay allowances due to their members. The notice was suspended on Thursday to allow talks. More on this: Doctors union suspends strike notice for dialogue Kariuki spoke during a tour of Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, as led by Chief Executive Officer Dr Wilson Aruasa. She said she went to the facility to check working conditions and processes as Kenya works on universal health care. Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno accompanied the CS. The minister noted gaps in the sector since the implementation of devolution. The Moi hospital is congested, she said, noting it handles primary issues that should be the responsibility of counties. “We will be working with governors to address gaps in the infrastructure, equipment and human resources needs of  all hospitals." Kariuki will meet the Council of Governors and other players to discuss challenges including lack of access to services and high costs of treatment. The government is also set to sign financing and construction contracts for the new Moi Referral Specialty Hospital that will be put up in Eldoret at Sh50 billion. Aruasa said space for 2,000 beds will be provided in the first phase and that the goal is for a capacity of 4,000. The project will take three years. Read: WHO to fully support Kenya's universal healthcare plan Click here for the latest political news