Bungoma MCAs have accused speaker Emmanuel Situma of many offences and collected signatures for a motion to remove him from office. The 33 ward representatives say Situma is incompetent, lacks independence, pushes for fictitious payments and flouts procurement procedures. They presented a motion containing these and other allegations to assembly clerk John Mosongo who acknowledged receipt. Lwandanyi MCA Tony Barasa, one of those who signed the petition, accused the speaker of failing to run the assembly independently and getting instructions from governor Wycliffe Wangamati. “This house is supposed to carry out the oversight role. Its speaker, most importantly, should be neutral but that is something this guy has failed to do. He has reduced us into an extension of the executive,” he told The Star on Thursday. Matulo representative Paula Wamalwa claimed Situma runs corruption rings by
sanctioning fictitious payments for deals that did not adhere to procurement guidelines. “Recently, the speaker and other assembly leaders arbitrarily decided to procure new chairs for
the chambers, at a cost of Sh7 million, yet the ones they had were procured during our swearing-in." Wamalwa further accused Situma of
partiality during house debates and siding with Ford Kenya MCAs’
who supported his bid. “Once you are elected as a speaker, you
ought to be neutral and forget about who did or did not vote for you." He added Situma is a lawyer yet he cannot grasp standing orders and resorts to bullying members whenever they correct him on legal matters. The speaker has a bachelors' degree from India's Panjab University. In his response to the developments, Wangamati opposed the motion to remove Situma saying it was too early. A message he sent the MCAs read: “I must say this as the governor of
this great county. I am very disappointed with the thinking that after being in office for barely six months, we are already thinking of impeaching the
speaker. "As honourable members, we must always act in the best interest of our
members. I have asked the clerk to go ahead and process the request by the
purported honourable members and push it before the house business committee
for action. The message seen by The Star includes a note for Ford Kenya leaders. "FK members, please note that this is against the party position. As a party, we will make our views known to members." Section 58 of the standing orders says the speaker must be given an opportunity to defend himself before a vote on his fate is taken. Reached for comment, Situma said he
will respond to the allegations on the floor of the house. Click here for the latest political news  