Harambee Stars Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Ghana has been pushed to September from March. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) communications officer, Barry Otieno, said they received communication from Fifa and Caf that the matches will be postponed to later in the year, owing to the World Cup starting in June. “We got communication from both Fifa and Caf telling us that the matches have been postponed to later in the year to give teams from the African continent better preparation time for the World Cup finals slated in Russia in June,” he said. Stars will now play Ghana, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone in home and away fixtures between September and November in Pool F with the group winners and runners up advancing to the finals in Cameroon next year. Stars lost their opening fixture 2-1 to Sierra Leone. Otieno said Stars may either play Morocco or Algeria in friendly international match next month. “We are talking with both federations to see if we can play them. We are waiting for their response in the next fortnight before we confirm the match,” added Otieno. Meanwhile, Stars’ coach Paul Put has hinted at changes in the national team’s technical bench ahead of the qualifiers. “If we are to qualify for the Africa Cup of Nations, we will have to make some certain changes to the technical bench. I have already forwarded my plans to the national office to see areas where we can make improvements,” he added. Put said preparations are going to be key if Stars are to end their 14-year drought from the continental bonanza. “Our preparations have to be spot on. We have already lost one match and we cant afford to lose another. We must get everything right from training to preparation,” added Put. Put said he is scouting for new talent in the Kenya Premier League and other leagues across the country to see what can be done to improve the Stars’ squad. “I’m attending league matches to see players who can add value to the side and improve stars going forward,” he added. Put has been encouraged by the form of skipper Victor Wanyama at Spurs and Michael Olunga at Girona. “Well, they are playing well and they need to up that form so that they can help the team qualify for the Africa Cup of Nations.”