Activist Okiya Omtatah on Monday filed contempt proceedings against Cabinet Secretaries Fred Matiang’i, Joe Mucheru and CA board. This followed their alleged failure to comply with orders requiring them to restore NTV, KTN News, and Citizen TV signals. The activist said he served the parties with a copy of the orders on Friday through a paid up advertisement. He told journalists that the state officials have blatantly disobeyed the orders and hence should be punished. Last Thursday, Justice Chacha Mwita suspended the media shutdown, which entered the seventh day on Monday. The judge ordered the government to allow the media carry on with their affairs pending the hearing of the case, a directive which has been ignored. Omatah says the court has the unfettered powers and jurisdiction to stop the blatant disregard of the rule of law. He says unless his application is heard immediately, Kenyans will continue to suffer great loss and damage. Read: NASA planned 'massacre' at Uhuru Park, media involved - Matiang'i Also read: Respect court orders, Kidero tells government over TV switch-off Apart from the two CSs, the activist wants the court to punish PSs Kamau Thugge, Karanja Kibicho, Sam Itemere, and the entire CA board. The board members are Ben Ngene, Paul Kukubo, Mugambi Nandi, Ken Tikolo, David Cheruiyot, Levi Obonyo, Christopher Guto, and Patrick Kimama. He says they must be stopped from ignoring the rule of law which is key national value and principle of governance. "I verily believe that in regard to the continuing violation and threats to the constitution, it is of utmost importance and urgency that the violations of the constitution are stopped." Further, Omtatah argues that the respondents are guilty of criminal contempt for deliberately disobeying the court orders. "They have substantially undermined the cause of justice in the instant proceedings," he argues. He wants the respondents to be committed to civil jail for a period of six months for the alleged disobedience. The contempt proceedings, he says, have been brought to safeguard the rule of law and to ensure the court orders and directives are complied with. The activist avers that this will as well uphold the dignity and authority of the court. The three TVs were switched off on Tuesday, January 30 for airing the ‘swearing in’ of NASA’ Raila Odinga. Matiang’i later explained that the shutdown will remain in force pending alleged investigations. He said police had information that TVs were likely going to be used by the opposition for subversion of law. Click here for the latest political news 