Edwin, my kid brother who has unusual reading interests, asked me to get him biographical books on strategy and leadership. I told him I have a number of books about political, business and military leaders I could lend him. “I hope the books are about or by controversial or unconventional leaders — those who changed things for ill or good,” he said. He particularly asked for books on or by men like Fidel Castro and the great Argentinian revolutionary and military leader Che Guevara. He said he had read lots classic novels but now wanted to develop mastery of strategy, given his new responsibilities as a strategist for his organisation. Few people, including those in leadership, know that literature and history were for many years the vehicles for developing leaders. Management emerged at the beginning of the 20th century. General education — history, literature, moral and natural philosophy — was one of the defining disciplines in undergraduate programmes in many universities in the West. Great military leaders and statesmen in the past were fed on history and great biographical books and not on management. Modern leaders invariably look for formal books on management and leadership when they want to read to improve their knowledge and skills. However, any book by or about a man or woman who has led an organisation or people has something new to give the reader — regardless of whether it is formal or informal. Particularly when the book meets the highest standards of writing — in subject matter and style. A strategy is nothing more than a guiding principle that an individual uses to make decisions towards a desired end using available resources and processes. The visions, purposes and values that invariably define any leadership worth its salt are shaped by many things. They are not restricted to formal books on business or accounting, much less on books about revolutionaries. Strategic leadership requires people to think, act and influence others in ways that promote the enduring success of an organisation or a cause. A leader must not only have a vision, but share it. Some of the most valuable insights into the heart of leadership don’t come from the business aisle. They come from the literary classics. Unlike traditional business books, literature allows you access to the inner lives of its characters. Classic literature is a wealth of knowledge and inspiration. It educates and entertains at the same time. It simulates life situations — the onset of a problem and its ramifications for the values that mankind has held dear, such as freedom, security, prosperity. Literature abounds with situations where leadership is tested, where characters are forced to make decisions to solve problems. Leaders face similar challenges or opportunities. Be they political, religious, administrative, or business leaders, they work in a complex environment where the constants are the same: Physical environment, people and the meaning attached to the environment and people. The DNA of effective leadership is a mix of knowledge, beliefs, attitudes, habits of thinking, behaviour and perspectives a leader brings to bear on an organisation. The best place to cultivate one’s mind, heart and soul is in great fiction and nonfiction works. They can be novels, poetry, plays, biographies, books on war and philosophy. It might interest my young brother and all strategists to know that Guevara was passionate about poetry and other classical novelists. That means that an hour spent on reading a book written by a great novelist or poet is likely to give you unique insights into people. And management is ultimately about people, their likes and dislikes.