Kenya's budgetary allocation to agriculture is going to stagnate at 2.4 per cent for the next five years, way below FAO's 10 per cent threshold, putting to doubt government's commitment on food security. According to the country's budget policy statement, which is heavily tied to President Uhuru Kenyatta's big four agenda including food security, the state is planning to increase agricultural budget from current Sh39.4 billion to Sh43.218 in 2020/21 financial year, but still 2.4 per cent of its total budget. This public underinvestment in agriculture, and the sector’s importance to economic growth and poverty alleviation, particularly in Africa, was acknowledged in the African Union’s Maputo Declaration of 2003, under which signatory nations including Kenya committed to allocate 10 per cent of government expenditures to agriculture and rural development. This was emphasized at the Malabo Declaration of 2014, in which signatory nations re-committed to the 10 per cent goal. Even so, only four countries led by Malawi at 15.8 per cent have reached this threshold. Government's vision on agriculture and food security The government is targeting to ensure all citizens enjoy food security and proper nutrition by 2022 by ensuring self-sufficiency in the production of maize, rice and potatoes among others. It for instance, wants to increase maize production from 40 million bags to 67 million bags in 2022, rice from 125,000 metric tonnes to 400,000 and potatoes from 1.6 million tonnes to 2.5 million tonnes By so doing, the state is targeting to lower the cost of food as a percentage of income from current 47 per cent to 25 per cent by 2022. It also wants to raise agricultural exports from 16 to 50 per cent, increase agricultural SMEs to a million from current 200,000 and create 4.5 million jobs from the sector from current 500,000 Where will money come from? Although it is dreaming big, the state has limited financial capacity to initiate agricultural projects to realise its food security agenda. Even though it will be increasing agricultural budget by 1.5 per cent every year, the less than Sh50 billion fund is a drop in the ocean considering the heavy investment needed to bring 700,000 more acres into irrigation and drive small-holder productivity as envisioned it the Budget Policy Statement. To realise this, the state is banking on private sector support, promising incentives. It is for instance planning to form an inclusive Agriculture and Irrigation Sector Working Group to provide coordination for irrigated agriculture that will ensure additional 700,000 acres of idle arable land are rehabilitated for crop, aquaculture and animal production. In December last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta rolled out a 57-dam project which he said will be central to his plans to ensure that Kenya limits its dependency on rain fed agriculture, leading to poor productivity whenever drought surface. Besides water, the state is appealing to investors to set up fertilizer manufacturing firms in the country in order to lower cost of production for farmers. Currently, Kenya imports most of its fertilizer, with only one firm currently blending it to fit local soils. The government is targeting at least 50 per cent of farmers to use locally blended fertilizer by 2022 The state has promised incentives for post harvest technologies to reduce post harvest loses from 20 to 15 per cent. It will for instance waive duty on cereal drying equipment, hematic bags, grain cocoons and aquaculture equipment Other projects include establishment of commercial feed system to revolutionize feed regime and traceability on animal to access export markets. It is also planning to secure investment to construct shipyard and increase domestic fishing fleet by 68 vessels in the coast. To drive small holder productivity, the state is planning to partner with private sector players to establish 1,000 SMEs using a performance based incentive model. It will also increase their credit access through warehousing system and strengthen commodity fund.