The Court of Appeal has ruled that any further disagreements between Tatu City directors should be settled at the board level and not in the courts. The ruling was made on an appeal case filed by project directors Stephen Jennings, Frances Holliday, Pius Ngugi, Frank Mosier and Christopher Barron. The five directors were on May 4, 2017 found at fault by Justice Francis Tuiyott of the High Court to have frustrated an in-depth audit by intimidating audit firm PwC. It is then that they chose to appeal the ruling. “We, for our part, are not convinced that there was evidence to support the assertion that the appellants completely frustrated and scuttled the commencement of the in-depth audit by intimidating PwC,” the court said on Friday last week in its judgment of the appeal. CONTEMPT OF COURT During the May 2017 ruling, the High Court ordered that another auditor be appointed to replace PwC (which had withdrawn from consideration). The High Court also found that these directors were in contempt of court. While overturning the decision of the High Court, the appeal court said “such an appointment is an internal affair of the company which only the company could do using its organs”. On contempt of court, it said there was no evidence the appellants deliberately disobeyed and disregarded the orders of the June 12, 2015 ruling. “From the foregoing facts, we are of the firm view that the evidence presented to prove contempt did not reach the threshold, therefore, the learned Judge Tuiyott committed an error in finding that the appellants had deliberately disobeyed the order of 12th June, 2015.” The three-judge bench at the Appeal court - Justice Asike Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M’inoti - said the only known punishment for disobedience of a court order under the rules are the seizure of property to be maintained until the court determines otherwise, imprisonment or a fine. “After finding the appellants guilty of contempt of court, the learned Judge ought to have imposed any of these penalties instead of attempting to appoint another firm of auditors to replace PwC and call that punishment,” the three said. In a document on the appeal seen by the Star, it is noted the successful appeal is a landmark ruling for the international shareholders because the judge upheld their assertion that “the courts have no role in the affairs of the company”.          