Families in Kwale whose sons and daughters are fighting alongside al Shabaab militants in Somalia are bitter at the path their children have taken, and frustrated by years of searching for them in vain. They have resigned hope of ever seeing their children alive again, believing they will be hunted down by the government once they sneak back into the country. Egged on by extremist Islamic preachers, their sons crossed over to Somali to join al Shabaab in the hope of earning huge sums they would then send back home. Several families interviewed say they were supposedly to get at leash Sh50,000 as their sons fought alongside other foreigners in Somalia. By the time the youths learnt their pay would be a fraction of what they had been promised, and that they would hastily be trained on frontline combat, their cell phones and identification had been confiscated. Those who have managed to sneak back into Kenya are referred to as al Shabaab defectors by security agents. Officers argue that these youths have temporarily disengaged from the battleground and remain aligned with the so-called “caliphate”, and often contemplate returning to Somalia to rejoin their friends. Five- year search Bakari Kalimba’s family lost a son and daughter to the lure of al Shabaab. The two, Rashid Salim and Asha Salim, are still missing after they allegedly crossed over to Somalia in 2012 from Mwalupamba in Kwale county. Rashid was the firstborn and Aisha the fifthborn in a family of 10. Rashid, 28, dropped from school in Form Three and volunteered to teach at a Madrassa, before moving to Mombasa and later to Malindi to advance his studies and spread the Islamic religion teaching in the region. Aisha dropped from Mwalupamba Primary School in class eight and later joined her brother in Malindi. To date, they cannot be traced. Holding the family portrait as he narrates the story, their father Kalimba, 65, said he lost hope of ever seeing them again after five years of intense searching in vain. “I have been left without anything to remember them. They were not married and had no children,” says the distracted-looking Kalimba. He says he travelled to Tanga in Tanzania after he received a call that his son had been spotted in one of the mosques, but the search was in vain. The old man from Kwale lost hope and returned home, where he is struggling to take care of the remaining siblings and their mother. Omar Mazera’s family in Burani is also waiting for the return of their sons, whether dead or alive. Bakari Omar and Said Omar went missing from Burani in 2013. They had worked as mechanic and long-distance truck driver in Mombasa after dropping out of primary school. “The last time my son (Said) called, he was transporting cargo to South Sudan. I have never heard from him again,” says Umar Mazera, their mother. The other son (Bakari) went missing without trace, too. “We are still trying to trace him, but we do not have the resources to move around the country looking for them,” Umar says. The family reported the disappearance at Mwalupamba chief’s office, but nothing has come out of it. Hundreds of al Shabaab returnees are believed to have taken refuge in Tanzania following the intensive crackdown by the government in Kwale. Intelligence reports show that some al Shabaab returnees have sneaked back to Kenya from Tanzania, but most are living with their distant relatives in Tanzania. Radicalisation Mwalupamba sublocation is among the breeding grounds of al Shabaab. Hundreds of youths were recruited from there to join the militants, while others joined the outlawed Mombasa Republican Council. In 2013, the MRC threatened to secede the Coast from Kenya if issues of land injustice and marginalisation were not addressed, leading to skirmishes in which security officers and civilians were killed. It is believed that the MRC members used to train and take oaths deep inside the Mwalupamba forest before waging terror in various parts of the Coast. Muslims clerics say al Shabaab recruiters took advantage of the poverty and the low education levels to indoctrinate the youth to join al Shabaab. Masjid Mahdy in Mwalupampa village is among the mosques named by local and intelligence agencies as a terror cell, where for decades, vulnerable youth from Kwale and Kinango were recruited to al Shabaab. The Mosque is predominately for Shia Muslims. Slain cleric Aboud Rogo is among those who offered summons at the mosque and managed to “innocently” radicalise hundreds. According to his followers, Rogo used his unique gift and knowledge of Islam to inspire and inform thousands of young Muslims all over East Africa. Rogo, who was under sanction by the US for ties to al Shabaab, embodied a shining example of a true and pious Muslim after his killing in August 2012. Rogo is believed to have had close links to Fazul Mohammed, the leader of Al Qaeda in East Africa, whom a US court indicted in 2008 for the 1998 US embassy attacks in Kenya and Tanzania. Masjid Musa, Sakina and Kikambala Madrassa are among the platforms Rogo used to recruit hundreds of youths under the government’s nose. Fazul was killed in 2011 by Somali policemen when he made a wrong turn at junction in the capital, Mogadishu. Despite the significant setbacks on the battlefield, both in Somalia and in Kenya, al Shabaab continues to attract followers. Returnee's experience The late Ali Salim is among al Shabaab returnees who were inspired by Rogo’s testimonies while attending his Madrassa in Kikambala in 2011. Salim was killed in 2016 after he allegedly killed a fellow al-Shabaab returnee, Beja Nyota, who had joined a government deradicalisation programme that reintegrated returnees in Kenya after they denounced the group. Salim is said to have tricked Nyota, who was then a boda boda rider, before shooting him in the head and stealing his motor bike in Mwalupamba. “He (Salim) had hired the boda boda with two other preachers before killing Nyota accusing him of betraying al Shabaab. Nyota had joined the group in 2012 alongside other Kwale youth,” relatives said. Born in Tiribe, Salim requested his father to allow him to join Rogo’s Madrassa in Kikambala. He later joined al Shabaab in 2012. Neighbours and religious leaders we spoke to said Salim changed after returning from Somali in 2015. He became very extremist. “He quarrelled with his father after disagreeing with his witchcraft practice, which he said violated Islamic teachings. He was chased away from Tiribe, and he moved to Mwalupamba go live with his grandfather,” explains his uncle, who sought anonymity. “It is during that time that he moved around with foreign preachers from one mosque to another in Kwale county. They were recruiting youth to join al Shabaab.” In 2016, he was killed while undergoing military training in Kibingo in Kinango subcounty. During that operation, two of his brothers, Kassim Salim and Mwamba Kassim, were arrested. They are currently detained in Shimo la Tewa. Other suspects arrested in the operation were Ali Suleiman, Said Nyawa and Hamisi Mwahuyi, all facing charges of murdering Nyota and stealing his motorcycle, and being members of al Shabaab. Hundreds of boda boda operators stormed Salim’s burial and threatened to burn his remains but they were repulsed. His father did not attend the burial. According security agents, the killing of Salim was major setback to the terror cells in Kwale. The Counter Violent Extremism programme is also in limbo following the growing mistrust among al Shabaab returnees, who had been recruited into the government project. In 2016, three Nyumba Kumi officials and one reformed al Shabaab returnee were killed in Bongwe. The four, Mohammed Mwaguzo, Juma Mwanyota, Hassan Debe and Subira Mwangole, had come out openly to oppose the extremist ideologies of al Shabaab. They were all shot dead by gun-wielding suspects riding on motorcycle.