A few weeks pass and I’m feeling better. The abortion is a distant memory. Well, as distant as that traumatic an event can be. And so are the blackmail schemes. I’m done. I told Mr N I would not be able to go through with target No. 4. Not after what I experienced that night. I thought I was going to die. This was even worse than the night I was kidnapped. At least then, no physical harm came to me. But this was horrible! The pain! I still remember the cramps. It felt like my cervix was being ripped from my body. I will never have another abortion. Never! As for the blackmail, quit while you’re ahead, they always say. Mr N and I got a total of Sh6 million from all our victims, that’s more than enough. I’m sitting at home, waiting for my niece to call. She has been out of the country for five years now, and I’m meant to be hooking up with her to catch up on old times. I’m all dressed up; I’ve done a face beat: I’m actually looking quite stunning. But no call yet from her. I send her a text: Me: Are we still on for tonight? The proverbial 2 blue ticks appear on WhatsApp, but the annoying girl doesn’t respond. Seriously? The youth of today have no respect! I’m all dressed up so I might as well hit the town. Not sure where I’ll go, though. I call up a couple of friends and it turns out that they are at a joint in Kilimani. I’ll check it out. I Uber there and walk into the packed club. The music is good and the crowd looks solid. I walk around with purpose, even though my friends are not here yet. I figure I’ll run into someone I know. “Hi, Samantha!” someone says from out of the blue. “Do you remember me from camp?” she asks. A few years ago, I went on a work-related retreat, and this girl was there. She’s nice. I suppose this is a friendly, safe place to park for a few minutes before my friends get here. “Meet my friend, Mick,” she says, and I turn to this very tall guy. Well over six feet tall. He has a wide girth and a friendly grin. “Would you like a drink?” he asks. “I’ll have a glass of wine,” I respond. “Would you like a bottle?” he asks. Well. Looks like I’ll be here for a little bit longer than I thought. Gentlemen are hard to find these days. He pulls me a chair and makes sure I’m comfortable. In the midst of an engaging conversation with him, Eric shows up. Wow. I haven’t seen Eric in ages. And how could I forget that day? It was the second time I had sex in a public restroom. Frank (my ex) had walked into the restaurant where Eric and I were having a meal. Thanks to my sex tape with The Prude, Frank absolutely hated me. Our engagement had been called off. There was nothing between us. And the look of disdain he gave me as he stood at the entrance of the restaurant said it all. He broke eye contact first, walked past us without acknowledging me and sat inside the bar, away from our view. “Will you excuse me for a moment? I need the bathroom,” I had said to Eric. I followed Frank into the bar area, determined to straighten things out with him. It wasn’t my intention to have sex with him in the bathroom but when I said hello, things didn’t quite go as planned.