Lawyer Miguna Miguna is the mole in Nasa, not CEO Norman Magaya, more than 500 Western leaders have said. Miguna stirred the country when he claimed that Magaya and the coalition's strategist David Ndii were secretly working for President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party. On Wednesday, Western Regional Coordinator Khalid Njiraini dismissed him saying: "Miguna must now stop being a tool of Jubilee Party [that is being] used to divide Nasa yet he has never walked the entire journey of electoral justice and sacrifice. "We wish to inform Miguna that if there is a Jubilee mole in Nasa and NRM then it is him and not Magaya." Njiraini's statement further noted their faith in Magaya, who has been with the coalition for seven years. "We have full confidence in our Magaya and promise to use every constitutional means to bring back Miguna but he must respect the existing coalition leadership." The lawyer was deported to Canada for stamping documents during Raila's self-inauguration as the People's President. A court ordered the return of his passports but he is yet to return. Read: Miguna deportation illegal, surrender his passports, Kimaru orders Also read: This man Miguna: What next after lawyer buddies up with Raila? Njiraini said that before joining the National Resistance Movement, Miguna was "busy attacking leader Raila and even published a book attacking him". In a book titled 'Peeling back the mask', Miguna criticised Raila in what was seen as a major expose. The book was virulently critical of Raila and purported to expose him as a charlatan. The Regional Coordinator said: "...the book is still in circulation, with Miguna pocketing the proceeds up to date. Magaya has never betrayed the coalition or done any thing to the detriment of the coalition." Njiraini further noted that Magaya was one of the Presidential Campaign Agents at Bomas of Kenya and that "we wonder where Miguna was all that time." "Miguna was a gubernatorial candidate in Nairobi County but he has never petitioned the results against the now failing Sonko leadership. We believe he must have been paid by Jubilee to not file a petition." Noting that Magaya is only answerable to the summit and the People’s President, Njiraini also said the lawyer should "stop dreaming that the CEO needs his permission to speak to Nasa supporters locally or in the Diaspora". "When NRM was formed, Miguna was nowhere to be found, only to reappear weeks later claiming to be the Major General of NRM, which basically means he is now answerable to Magaya." Miguna claimed the Chief Executive Officer and strategist were being used by the ruling party to scuttle the Opposition, a matter that is likely to escalate intrigues around Raila's oath. On Monday, Raila defended Magaya and Ndii and asked supporters of the National Super Alliance to ignore the claims. "We wish to make it clear that as a coalition, we have full confidence in Ndii and Magaya, who have dedicated time and resources working for Nasa’s course," he said. More on this: Magaya, Ndii working with Jubilee to scuttle NASA, Miguna claims Also read: Ignore Miguna's claims, I fully trust Ndii and Magaya - Raila Click here for the latest political stories  