Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Achesa has pledged to work closely with Football Kenya Federation (FKF) in raising Harambee Stars to World Cup standards in the coming years. Speaking when he received the FIFA World Cup trophy at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) yesterday, the new sports boss said Kenya is capable of producing a formidable team off the abundant talent in the country. Achesa said Kenya had the potential to qualify to the World Cup by nurturing young talents and developing football at the grassroots level through a working partnership between his ministry and FKF. Days after receiving the leadership baton from Hassan Wario, Achesa led top government officials in receiving the 6.1kg trophy. He said: “We are willing to raise the football standards in the country to attain the world class standards. Through working with FKF, we aim to nurture young talents so that one day, Kenya will qualify for the World Cup. I am informed this is the third time the trophy is coming to Kenya and it’s presence is a motivation to us and the players.” “I can assure you that you have toured a country where soccer is loved and having this trophy here is a challenge to the players and football stakeholders,” Achesa told the Fifa delegation. “I appeal to the public especially football enthusiasts to turn out in large numbers at KICC tomorrow for the public viewing.” Achesa was accompanied by the Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala, his youth and gender counterpart Cecily Kariuki, Nairobi Women Representative Esther Passaris among other top government officials. Balala said that Kenya stood a chance of qualifying to the World Cup by motivating the youth to take sports seriously. “We can play or host the World Cup in future if we motivate the youth to take sports seriously. It’s a tall order but still achievable. It’s presence should motivate Kenyans to actively engage in soccer,” said Balala. The World Cup tour is set for Mozambique, South Africa, Uganda, Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Egypt. Before jetting in the country, the FIFA officials toured Sudan and Ethiopia.