The search for the successor of former DPP Keriako Tobiko started yesterday. Tobiko, a lawyer, resigned as the DPP after President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated him the Environment and Forestry CS. He has been vetted by the National Assembly’s Committee on Appointments and now awaits  House approval. In an advertisement in the local dailies by the Selection Panel chairperson, Elizabeth Muli, potential candidates include judges, magistrates, advocates and academic or legal experts with at least 10 years’ experience. [VIDEO] Attorney General Githu Muigai resigns, Uhuru nominates Justice Paul Kihara According to the PSC the successful candidate will serve an eight-year non-renewable term, pocketing a gross salary of Sh765,188 per month. The applicants are required to be of high moral character, impartial and fair. They should also have good temperament and good judgement – both in their legal and life experiences. The three deputy Directors of Public Prosecutions – Dorcas Oduor, Jacob Ondari and Nicholas Mutuku – are expected to lead the pack in the search for the next DPP. Odour is the frontrunner for the position, having 15 years’ prosecutorial experience. She has been Tobiko’s principal deputy as well as the Economic, International and Emerging Crimes Department boss. Ondari has 13 years’ experience. Mutuku has served for 10 years. Last month, Tobiko expressed confidence in the team he left behind, saying the people are qualified. ”My exit leaves no vacuum at the ODPP,” he said. The former DPP took pride in the growth of the office during his tenure. Tobiko, who served as a commissioner of the Constitution of Kenya Review Commission, was appointed DPP in June 2011. According to a Kenya Gazette Notice dated February 2, those appointed to the selection panel include Kennedy Kihara (Office of the President), Maryann Njau (Attorney General’s office) and Lilian Omollo (Public Service ministry). The others are Kagwiria Mbogori (Kenya National Commission on Human Rights), Elizabeth Muli (Law Society of Kenya), Francis Atwoli (Cotu) and Halakhe Waqo (Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission). The panel shortlists and interviews applicants and then forwards to the President three names of the most qualified candidates. The President will then pick one name and send it to Parliament for approval.  Click here for the latest political
news