A strange petition seeking to remove all the seven members of the Judicial Service Commission, including Chief Justice David Maraga, was yesterday filed in Parliament. The petition asks Parliament to petition the President to set up a tribunal to investigate the commissioners. It comes just a fortnight after Jubilee Party, in a terse letter to Maraga by Secretary General Raphael Tuju, accused the Judiciary of bias, and a few days after the Jubilee-dominated Parliament approved four new nominees to the Judicial Service Commission. Read: Uhuru's threat to 'fix' judiciary played major role in SC ruling - MP Wamalwa The new nominees to the JSC are not affected by the petition. The petition rekindles memories of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s vow to “revisit the Judiciary”, following the Supreme Court’s nullification of the August 8 Presidential election over extensive illegalities and irregularities on September 1. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had declared Uhuru the winner but NASA candidate Raila Odinga filed a petition. William Cheptumo, the chair of the Justice and Legal Affairs committee of Parliament, said the petition would have to be forwarded to the Speaker, who will read it on the floor of the House before assigning it to his committee to deal with it. “It will be premature to comment on it at this moment because I have not seen the petition nor has it been presented to our committee.” Along with Maraga, the petition also seeks the sacking of Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu, who, together with Maraga and two other Supreme Court judges, delivered the majority ruling that overturned Uhuru’s victory. Also targetted are Law Society of Kenya representatives Tom Ojienda and Mercy Deche, whose terms to serve the commission expire this February. Others the petitioner is seeking to push out include Justice Mohamed Warsame, Justice Aggrey Muchelule (representing Court of Appeal and the High Court), and Emily Ominde, who represents magistrates. If the petition succeeds, the current JSC will stand dismantled, paving the way for the reconstitution of a new commission that observers predict would comprise Jubilee-friendly members who will do the Executive’s bidding. The President has already named four replacements — Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei, Patrick Gichohi and Justice Paul Kariuki Kihara. Petitioner Adrian Kamotho Njenga describes himself a Kenyan, a lawyer and ardent defender of the Constitution (see more below). He accuses the JSC of serious violation of the Constitution, including Chapter Six on integrity, gross misconduct in the performance of functions and incompetence. “JSC commissioners have failed to promote and facilitate the independence and accountability of the Judiciary and transparent administration of justice,” Kamotho says. He delivered the petition to the Parliamentary Service Commission on February 26, but Senate Clerk and PSC secretary Jeremiah Nyegenye said he had not seen the petition by the time we were going to press.  GROSS MISCONDUCT The petitioner accuses the commissioners of shielding, protecting and irregularly exonerating judges engaged in what he terms gross misconduct. On the other hand, he also accuses the JSC of engaging in ‘selective victimization of judges who have exhibited diligence, impartiality and judicial independence’. Kamotho cites JSC’s dismissal of a petition by Ngunjiri Wambugu against Maraga and Derrick Ngumu’s petition against Mwilu. On September 14, two weeks after the Supreme Court nullified President Uhuru Kenyatta’s election, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri filed a petition seeking the removal of Maraga for gross misconduct and leading a group of unnamed people to “capture the Judiciary”. He later said in a Twitter text that he had dropped the petition after Uhuru publicly urged him to withdraw. Kamotho also claims that “a petition by Kelvin Njihia raising severe integrity concerns against the conduct of Justice Isaac Lenaola was casually swept under the carpet.” The petition, filed on September 21 by Derrick Malika Ngumu, accused DCJ Mwilu and Supreme Court Judge Isaac Lenaola of working with the Opposition to deliver a favourable ruling. Ngumu was disowned by an NGO Angaza, which he claimed to represent. Kamotho takes issue with the JSC’s handling of the petition for the removal of Justice Mativo on claims he had plagiarised a ruling. “A petition presented to JSC on December 15 2017 disclosing flagrant plagiarism, outright dishonesty and illegal alterations of Court rulings by Justice John Mativo did nothing to awaken the conscience of the JSC members,” he argued. He terms as ‘misguided’ pursuit of disciplinary action JSC’s investigations against Justice Paul Kihara, the President of the Court of Appeal and now nominee for Attorney General, and his colleagues Erastus Githinji, Martha Koome, and Fatuma Sichale. Early this year the JSC formed a special committee to probe allegations of misconduct and insubordination of the four after a petition was lodged against them by former LSK secretary Apollo Mboya on December 21, questioning how they arrived at a ruling that reversed the High Court’s judgment that faulted the appointment of IEBC returning officers. Komotho also claims that the JSC has put Justice Jackton Ojwang on their radar. “The cited JSC members have irregularly and without any reasonable basis constituted a 'special committee' in a manner so as to trump up allegations, bully, humiliate and arm-twist the above judges,” he said, referring to Ojwang and Justice Njoki Ndung’u, who dissented in the Supreme Court ruling. JSC secretary and Judiciary Chief Registrar Anne Amadi was not available for comment as her phone was switched off. But the Judiciary’s deputy director of communications,  Catherine Wambui, said they could not “comment on a petition we haven't been copied or seen.” The petitioner accuses the JSC of politicising the Judiciary, making it unpredictable and highly polarised. He claims it has failed in its mandate of recommending to the President the appointment of judges to the Court of Appeal, “despite diminished numbers crippling the administration of justice.” The petition says the JSC members have used their position to “influence the conduct of Judicial affairs by judges and judicial officers” and allowing “personal interests to conflict with the public good.” The petition drew mixed reactions from the public, with International Commission of Jurists (K) Executive Director Samuel Mohochi terming it generic because it does not particularise accusations against individual JSC members. “The petitioner also seems to mix up issues and seems not to understand the distinction between the JSC and the Judiciary,” he said. “However, the singling out of the commissioners tells a story. Those targetted are members of the commission by virtue of the institutions they represent and are not beholden to the Executive,” he added. Kamotho came to the limelight in early 2015 when he won a case against the Communications Authority of Kenya for a board job application on email that was never delivered. His email had bounced back on April 15, 2014, the deadline set for receiving applications for a vacant board member position. Kamotho would later argue that the authority’s selection panel had technical inadequacies that resulted in his application bouncing back, thus the board’s recruitment was flawed. The board’s appointment was annulled but was successfully appealed.  LITIGANT He is listed as a graduate of the University of Nairobi (but is not on the roll of practising advocates because he has not attained the mandatory diploma from the Kenya School of Law’s Advocate Training Programme (ATP). In another petition, filed at the High Court on August 16, 2017, Kamotho sought to block pre-Bar examinations for all graduates from local universities at as a precondition for joining the Kenya School of Law for the ATP. And in January 2017,  he sued the Council of Governors, Kenya National Highways Authority and the Kenya Urban Roads Authority for obstructing the public from using toilet facilities. He argued that provision of the facilities free of charge was a right. Also read: Jubilee revisits the Judicary with a stinging lettter to CJ