Picking up opponents in the middle of the night and detaining them without trial, confiscating passports of government critics without any reason and destroying businesses of opponents to render them poor so that they have no means to organise politically were all tactics Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel Moi used to oppress Kenyans under the one-party rule. But the one-party political system was removed — by law — in 1992. It was not, however, abolished in the psyches of those who benefitted from it, and those who, subsequent to the advent of the multi-party system, have consistently sought to create institutions that basically preserve their interests as nurtured by the one-party regime. Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto belong to this group of people, so is an array of the beneficiaries of Kenyanisation of yesteryears and the state/bureaucracy power elite who maintain state power and feed on it. The current Constitution theoretically abolished those institutions of privilege and proposed the establishment of new ones based on broader democratic principles. But the beneficiaries of the one-party system have, however, consistently been at war with the Constitution since October 2010. They have pushed laws through Parliament to that effect. They have nurtured reactionary individuals and given them political power with the express mission of reestablishing the ancien régime. Look at Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, for example. Notwithstanding all this, the gauntlet was thrown down on January 30 that this charade must now come to an end, and the spirit of the Constitution must be allowed to blossom. We must not continue participating in elections that simply sanitize the one-party rule under the guise of the so-called democratic competition. These elections have neither been democratic nor have they been genuinely competitive. In one of his erudite commentaries on Kenya’s current politics, Salim Lone recently said, “The swearing-in’s most potent consequence is the creation of authoritative alternative institutions, which will hold currently absent discussions on how to tackle Kenyans’ pressing concerns at both presidential and parliamentary levels.” This is a poignant and timely statement which should enlighten many who care to think on how to understand our current political juncture. Yes. This impasse between the two centers of power may lead us to discuss these outstanding and divisive issues and yet it may not do so. One center of power, where Uhuru sits, is not enthusiastic about such radical discussions. Lone is talking about two centers of power that came into clear perspective in Kenya and internationally on January 30, when Raila Odinga was sworn in as the People’s President before a mammoth crowd at Uhuru Park. The event ushered in a new era. This is the era of the popular masses across the nation, who believe the Republic belongs to all voters as citizens, stating openly that in a truly democratic election, their choice would go to Raila of NASA as the President, and not Uhuru of Jubilee. Having been deliberately denied this opportunity in an open democratic electoral process, the masses can no longer rely on the state to avail them this opportunity. By swearing-in Raila as the People’s President, they closed the chapter on stolen elections and removed any pretense of waiting for the government to respect electoral justice. This justice must be seized by the people, not given to them. The People’s President defends this position, not by resorting to any instrument of state power, but by sheer reliance on popular support which, when challenged by the state, can express itself in civil disobedience and demonstrations. Elsewhere in history, when such popular power emerged, it was accompanied by the people also marshaling their own armed might in confrontation with the challenged state power. The immediate result was civil war as happened with the Paris Commune versus the royalists in France in 1871. NASA does not want to travel along that road in our current context. The choice open to NASA is the transformation of state power through electoral justice. Juxtaposed against People’s Power is the Uhuru and William Ruto government that adheres to the notion that a tribal coalition put together for winning majority at an election must be accepted by the people, however controversial that election is within the provisions of the Constitution and election laws. The act of being sworn in by the Chief Justice seals the deal of legitimacy and any irregularities prior to that act, even when they are proven to be inconsistent with the popular will, must be consigned to the dustbin of the sour grapes of unfortunate losers. And the government has defended this position with all the armed might of the state and plenty of propaganda. The regime deliberately makes facts appear like fiction while also delegitimising popular demands as treason. Having dismissed with disdain any suggestion to engage in dialogue with the opposition as a way of bridging the gap between the two centers of power, the regime was totally embarrassed when this opposition power was visibly demonstrated at Uhuru Park on January 30. Uhuru’s reaction and actions since then only confirm his fear of this alternative center of power. We are, therefore, confronted with a situation of dual power in our politics today. Lone states that this dual power now sets the stage, or creates a viable environment, for the issues that have divided the two parties to be discussed and hence for a rapprochement to be realised. I seem to differ. A rapprochement is just a possibility, but not an inevitability. Why do I say so? Kenya’s political history seems to be unfolding very much like that of France from 1789 to 1950, a very long period that may be expressing itself within only 55 years of Kenya’s history since Independence. There was a revolution in France in 1789 that overthrew the feudal monarchy and established a new government based on democratic principles and universal adult suffrage. It proclaimed the so-called rights of man and envisaged a new republic, where royalism would be a thing of the past and equal opportunity, freedom of speech, popular sovereignty and representative government would dominate political life. But due to the intransigence of the privileged social classes under the regime that had been overthrown, the popular masses neither got the vote nor did their participation in politics make much difference to their lives for quite some time (this is a road the Kenyan masses have also travelled). An attempt by radicals in 1871 to spread the ideas of the revolutionary Paris Commune to democratise French society failed as the royalists successfully won the support of other social classes to defeat the revolution (you will remember what happened after the Narc peaceful change in 2002 ). But the seeds of change had been planted. Soon after World War II, France became a welfare state with Church and nation very clearly separated in a modern republic. A few years later, Charles de Gaulle finished the journey towards a new democratic republic. In like manner, we know tribe and state power is what has provided the backbone for authoritarian rule in Kenya since Independence. People such as Jaramogi Odinga and Bildad Kaggia started the struggle against this hiatus in the 1960s. It is now more than 50 years since then. The People’s Power must finally put tribe and nation asunder and give us a modern republic through electoral justice without necessarily seeking the consent of remnants of the ancien régime in the form of the Jubilee ruling elite. This is my proposal: First, call for a People’s Convention to make proposals for amending the Constitution to establish a new republic, where individual and peoples’ rights will be cardinal in the Bill of Rights. Second, key on the agenda should be the discussion of the structure of the Executive, the parliamentary system of government, direct and proportional representation, abolishing gender disparities in representative institutions, abolishing all forms of bribery in electoral politics and simplifying campaigns to enhance party politics and individual freedoms. Third, while preparing for the People’s Convention, organise a national civic education programme on the values, ethics and the progressive agenda of the new republic, including the politics of federalism, which will create a clear boundary between the national federal government and the federal states. Finally, this education must emphasise the socioeconomic agenda of the new republic that must be grounded on equitable development and the promotion of the dignity of every citizen in a social democratic society.