MCAs have opened investigations into how City Hall used Sh48 million to beautify the city ahead of the visits by former US President Barack Obama and Pope Francis' in 2015. The move came after it emerged that the money was irregularly spent. Acting Finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi said the money, an overdraft from Co-operative Bank, was secured after the National Treasury promised to reimburse Sh60 million to City Hall. The Treasury also approved the spending. The overdraft has already attracted Sh5.3 million in interests due to repayment delays. “The national government had promised to give the county a grant of Sh60 million. That was why the overdraft was taken,” Alumasi told the Public Accounts Committee on Thursday last week. He was appearing before the MCAs to respond to audit queries of the 2015/2016 financial year. The beautification programme was not included in the fiscal year's budget. The county neither presented a supplementary to the assembly to regularise the expenditure. MCAs establsihed that City Hall has not asked for the reimbursement from the National Treasury, three years after the cash was spent. “How can you fail to follow up when someone has promised to reimburse you? It means the county is incurring all these debts because of a few people in the finance sector who are not doing their job,” committee chairman Wilfred Odalo said. The programme, popularly known as Kidero Gras,' included landscaping, planting of flowers and grass along major roads and pavements in the city. The county hired 50 youths to monitor the grass. In 2016, the project won the overall Landscaping Architectural Association of Kenya excellence award. The project was later abandoned, causing the grass to dry up. “Did residents get value for money in the project? Why was it abandoned soon after the visitors left? Kware MCA Rose Kula asked. Alumasi said only the officials from the environment department could tell whether the county got value for money. The officers were not in the committee at the time. Governor Mike Sonko's administration hass already launched another beautification programme to spruce up the city.