A court has quashed a decision by the legal education agency that barred a student from undertaking a training programme because he had a foreign law degree. Moses Nthurima sued the Council for Legal Education last year and listed the Kenya School of Law as an interested party for failing to approve his application on grounds he has foreign qualifications. “In this case, the applicant deposed, and it was not controverted, that the Kenya School of Law had previously admitted students of the University of South Africa’s distance learning degree programme who are now practising as advocates of the High Court, hence the decision to lock him out is, therefore, unfair and discriminatory,” High Court Judge George Odunga said. Nthurima wanted the court to direct the CLE and KSL to approve his foreign qualification to be admitted to undertake the Advocates Training Programme at the KSL. “I’m seeking orders to quash the decision of the respondent through its letter dated October 17, 2017 rejecting my application for recognition and approval of foreign qualifications,” he said. Justice Odunga directed the CLE to furnish the student with reasons within 14 days from the date of service of the order. “Failing to do so, it will be deemed that the respondent has no reason for disallowing the application... compelling it to approve the application made by the applicant for recognition and approval of his foreign qualification to be admitted to undertake the advocates training programme at the said Kenya School of Law,” he said. The student said he completed his Kenya O-level education in 1983 and later applied to study for a Bachelor of Education degree at the University of Nairobi and graduated with Second Class honours in 2001. “However, being determined to become an advocate of the High Court of Kenya, I applied for and was accepted to study for a Bachelor of Laws degree at the University of South Africa in the month of May, 2004,” Nthurima said. After more than 10 years of training, he completed the law degree and graduated with a Bachelor of Laws degree in 2015. He thereafter intended to apply to the Kenya School of Law for the Advocates Training Programme for 2016. On December 15, 2015 the CLE told him his application was not successful because the UNISA degree had not been submitted to it for evaluation. He was informed to furnish the council with further documents.