The Environment and Land Court in Mombasa on Friday stopped a German woman and a Kenyan from evicting residents living on a Sh183 million property in Kikambala, Kilifi county. The ownership of the property is at the heart of a violent altercation after the German, Monika Herta Elfriede Behrmann, and Joseph Lenguris said to be her husband, allegedly tried to forcibly evict the occupants, claiming they had not paid for it. The property comprises of a 3.5 acres and a seven-bedroom house which a Kenyan, Caroline Mwandiku, allegedly purchased in 2013 from the German at the cost of Sh23 million. The couple, however, claim Mwandiku violated the sale agreement by not paying the balance of Sh21 million for the land. Behrmann says she bought the land from a firm known as Mubia Holding Ltd in 1994 for 20,000 Deutsche Mark (about Sh2 million) before she resoled it to Mwandiku. Behrmann, however, does not have any document to prove ownership or a court order to evict Mwandiku and her relatives from the house they have occupied for the last six years. According to Behrmann, Mwandiku paid a deposit of Sh.2 million and they agreed to stagger the rest of the payment for nine months. But Mwandiku is said to have failed to honour the agreement. Mwandiku, through her lawyer, has denied the claims, saying she settled the debt. Since last month, the two parties have been embroiled in a tussle with Lenguris, leading panga-wielding gangs to evict Mwandiku’s relatives staying at the property. On January 16, Lenguris led a group of youth to gain forceful entry into the property in a fresh confrontation, which the occupants claimed they lost valuables. “They stole money (Sh28,000) and a laptop," Jane Mwende, who lives in the house, said. But Lenguris dismissed the theft claims as fabricated lies aimed at seeking sympathy. The gang broke down the gate to gain access into the house and Jane said she lost Sh3,000, a laptop and a phone during the altercation. Police from Kijipwa police station arrived in time to separate the two groups and ordered Lenguris to move out after they realised he did not have a court order to evict the occupants. It was the third time in a week that the rival groups were clashing over this property, following similar violence on January 13 and two days later. The court on Friday stopped Behrmann from forcibly repossessing the land and ordered the matter should first be heard and determined. Mwandiku and Behrmann have now jointly sued Mubia Holdings Ltd, demanding that it produces the title deed of the land and prove it was the true owner before it sold the land to the German woman. Mwandiku and Behrmann are cited as the plaintiff in the suit papers and Mubia Holdings Ltd named as the defendant in the said suit. Justice C Yano ordered that all the parties be served with the orders. The case will be heard on April 16.  