The High Court in Malindi yesterday dismissed a petition against Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi. Justice Weldon Korir ordered petitioner Kazungu Kambi to pay Sh4 million costs. The former Cabinet minister will pay Kingi of ODM Sh1.7 million and pay the remaining Sh2.3 million to the IEBC and returning officer Nelly Illongo. “The petitioner lacked enough evidence. This petition, therefore, stands dismissed. Amason Kingi was validly elected the governor of Kilifi,” Korir ruled before a packed court. Both Kingi and Kambi were absent when the judgment was delivered. Deputy Governor Gideon Saburi, Kilifi Jimmy Kahindi, MCAs and hundreds of Kingi’s supporters turned up for the ruling. They broke into song and dance immediately after the judgment. Kambi, who contested the seat on a Kadu Asili ticket, had moved to court challenge Kingi’s victory in the August 8 General Election. Security threats Key among the issues raised by Kazungu was the suspension of elections at the county tallying centre at Pwani University on August 9 last year. The county returning officer admitted she suspended the election because there were security threats. Korir said Kambi is the one who told his agents not to sign the electoral forms and withdraw from the tallying centre. The judge also said the suspension of the election by Illongo was prompted by Kambi’s actions at the county tallying centre. Iebc officials arrested “There were no irregularities on the part of the first respondent. The petitioner cannot be allowed to reap benefits from the violence that took place,’’ the judge said. Korir said despite that, the tallying was done normally at the polling station. Whatever happened never had any effect on the election, he said. He also said the irregularities reported by Kazungu did not affect the election outcome. Kambi had said ballot boxes were found in a vehicle and some IEBC officials were arrested in three polling stations in Malindi. Korir said the IEBC officials were arrested for allowing voters to vote without validation and the matter can only be justified if they are proved guilty. The petitioner had also alleged there were malpractices in three polling stations. However, Korir said those affected only 156 votes and could not change the outcome of over 320,000 votes in the three out of 928 polling stations. Peoples’ victory The results declared by the IEBC showed Kingi won with 218,696 votes, followed by Gideon Mung’aro of Jubilee with 56,547 votes, while Kambi had 44,447 votes. The Deputy Governor and MCAs thanked the court for its verdict by giving back the victory to the people of Kilifi. The High Court on Tuesday quashed the August 8 election victory of Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti Judge Joseph Karanja, sitting in Homa Bay, found the the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission did not conduct a free and fair election. The case had been filed by Awiti’s challenger and independent candidate Oyugi Magwanga. Awiti became the second governor to lose his seat after Wajir’s Mohammed Abdi suffered a similar ruling last month.