IS Opposition NASA finally beginning to recognise President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Jubilee administration? Well, none other than NASA’s second-in-command — Kalonzo Musyoka — on Monday showered praise on Uhuru's newly appointed Cabinet Secretary for Environment, Keriako Tobiko, saying his appointment was timely following the CS’s recent remarks on environmental conservation. Our mole intimated to us that Kalonzo’s remarks left his Opposition supporters wondering whether the former Vice President has finally moved on. A Presidential hopeful in the 2022 polls is the new ATM in town. Our mole, a close friend of the candidate, was bragging about how he gets a commission (baptised as pesa ya kuona mheshimiwa) for everyone who goes to collect his weekend share. After picking up the funds, you are supposed to praise the candidate and attack the opponents. The young man said, “We are also waiting to see if it will translate into votes.” ARE tear gas, water cannons and even live bullets meant for only unruly Kenyans from some parts of the country? Well, some activists thinks so: They were heard protesting that the police did very little to disrupt the hostile mobs that caused an eight-hour siege along Limuru Road on Monday, completely paralysing transport on the always busy highway. Our little bird overheard the activists saying the same situation in any of the Nyanza counties would have resulted in loss of life and gunshot injuries. AN MP whose determination of a petition challenging his win was made this week has left his friends and close associates baffled on how he knew the verdict and the exact amount his rival would be slapped with days to the key judgment. The MP on Sunday is said to have expressed rare confidence about having his win upheld and even transported his supporters to the court to join him in celebrations after the petition was thrown out. True to his word, the petition was dismissed and the rival slapped with the exact amount he had told his allies. STILL on petitions, an elected leader whose election has been nullified is said to have hit his financial manager with a glass after accusing him of diverting the money he was given to facilitate a court outcome favourable to the politician, who has now appealed the High Court decision. The politician, Corridors has learnt, had a huge budget to have the case dismissed, but his aide, our mole found out, failed to channel the money as he was directed and instead pocketed the entire budget, something the politico believed cost him his election.     