The failure by police to act on complaints from the public and misconduct are key shortcomings in the service, the latest Ipoa report shows. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority report covering between January and June last year, shows cases of police inaction stands at 311 while misconduct is at 135. The report released last week indicates there were 95 abuse of office cases through corruption and extortion, assault at 91, harassment of the public ( 85 ), arbitrary arrest and unlawful detention ( 74 ) and shootings at ( 47 ). Other cases are threats to the public at 28, deaths 25, improper investigations 17, malicious prosecution and dissatisfaction with court processes 13, destruction of property seven and obstructing victims from accessing justice at six. “Compared to the previous reporting period, there was an overall 19.2 per cent decrease in the number of complaints reported. This is also reflected in the decrease of complaints reported except for improper investigations, which increased by 14 cases,” reads the report tabled in Parliament on Thursday. 146 female complainants Ipoa chairman Macharia Njeru said in the report, men are the most complainants at 61 per cent, followed by women at 14 per cent. “The largest percentage of complaints were directly from the public. The data reveals that 617 of the complainants were male while a paltry 146 were female,” Njeru said. A total of 137 investigations in 30 counties had been completed during the period under review. At least 64 per cent of the 47 counties recorded cases of police misconduct and injustices and require investigation. Nairobi recorded the highest cases of complaints at 34 followed by Meru 13, Kericho nine, Machakos and Mombasa eight each while Kiambu, Narok and Nyeri recorded seven cases each. Wajir, Uasin Gishu, Makueni and Kwale are counties that recorded the list complaints. Ipoa also received complaints from state and non-state officers, police officers and the media. Njjeru said Ipoa had received 8,042 complaints as at June 30 last year since it was set up in 2012. Cumulatively, it has completed 593 investigations. Click here for the latest political stories 