A bishop and a Jubilee MP have asked the government to adhere to the rule of law and stop supremacy battles with the Judiciary. Bishop Maurice Crowley of Kitale Catholic
Diocese and Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto on Saturday argued that failure by some government officials to obey court orders amounts to lawlessness. “If such continues, then the
direction the country is taking is bad and it will create anarchy which is not
good at all for this country," Crowley said. He spoke while addressing hundreds of Catholic faithfuls at St.Joseph’s Boys' High School, Kitale, during the ordination of two priests. Read: I didn't disobey court summons in Miguna case, was in a meeting - Boinnet Moroto said: "I am a member of the ruling Jubilee but there is need for us all to respect the law, because nobody is above the law despite the position that one holds in the government”. Their remarks were in reference to Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss George Kinoti's total disregard of an order to appear before court. Read: Boinnet, Kinoti ordered to personally produce Miguna in court on Tuesday Boinnet and Kinoti were ordered by Judge Luka Kimaru to produce pro-opposition lawyer Miguna Miguna in court on Tuesday but they failed to do so. They two instead handed Miguna to the Immigration department where he was deported to Canada on Monday night. Government officials claimed he was deported because he had renounced his Kenyan citizenship. On Wednesday, chief Justice David Maraga
condemned the blatant disregard of court orders by government officers which he termed as a worrying trend in the administration of
justice. He said disobeying court orders was
not only a violation of the Constitution but also a neglect of public duty. “Compliance of court orders is not an option
by an individual or institution. Neither is it a favour to be doled out to the
Judiciary. If any party is aggrieved by a court order, there are legal
mechanisms to have it reviewed, varied or set aside or even appealing against
it,” Maraga said in a statement. Crowley called on both Jubilee and NASA to hold dialogue where NASA should
be allowed to list the problems they want be solved. “Dialogue is good but allowing NASA
to list what they think is causing disharmony should be noted down first before
such dialogue can commence” Crowley said. Last week in Kitale, while attending the burial of Yvonne Wamalwa, wife to former Vice President Michael Wamalwa, DP William Ruto said the government will only engage in dialogue over development issues and not power sharing. Read: 'God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto Click here for the latest political news 