Nakumatt Holdings' hope for a merger with Tuskys Supermarkets faces a new hiccup after one of the Tuskys' siblings Yusuf Mugweru said the deal is being brokered illegally. Mugweru has written to the Competition Authority of Kenya, saying Tuskys is not financially sound enough to go to Nakumatt's rescue, and that several disputes over the management of their retail chain are yet to be determined by the courts. He adds his siblings have locked him out of the proposed merger deal with Nakumatt, despite his consent as a Tuskys shareholder being mandatory before such a transaction can be approved by the CAK. The two retailers last week applied for an exemption from the CAK to allow to execute a management contract. The CAK has now stated that it is in the process of publishing a gazette notice which will invite any parties to either support or object the application by Nakumatt and Tuskys. “In the circumstances, our client maintains objection to the proposed partnership, or any other arrangement with the troubled Nakumatt, for previously stated reasons, which include the lack of capacity of Tusker Mattresses Limited, to in any way get involved in any proposed bailout,” Mugweru's lawyers Murgor & Murgor Advocates said in their objection. “Indeed both shareholders and their advocates have treated our client with utter contempt, and have to date refused to provide our client with any information regarding the negotiations with Nakumatt Holdings. As a significant shareholder of Orakam Holdings, our client has neither been notified, nor approved such negotiations and or partnership.” Mugweru has a 17.5 per cent stake in Tuskys through his Mugweru Investments Limited. Other shareholders are John Kago,10 per cent through Green Pharm Investments, Stephen Mukuha,17.5 per cent through Mitiki Investments, Sammy Gatei,17.5 per cent through Future Group Ventures Investments Limited, George Gachwe17.5 per cent through Aliann Investments Limited, deceased Mary Njeri 10 per cent through Kendan Investments Limited and Mary Njoki 10 per cent through Njowawa Investments Limited. The High Court last month allowed Nakumatt to appoint PKF's Peter Obondo Kahi as an administrator, who in turn appointed Tuskys as Nakumatt's manager. Under the initial proposal by Tuskys, it was to issue payment guarantees to Nakumatt's creditor for up to Sh3 billion. Tuskys was also to advance Sh650 million to Nakumatt to cover operational costs. The CAK has however kept close to its chest details of the fresh application by the two retailers.