Two herders on Monday afternoon were shot dead in a gunbattle and one police reservist seriously injured in the Kerio Valley. No livestock were stolen. The killing of the two men brings the death toll of the renewed attacks to nine in Marakwet East alone since January 5. From March 2016 to August 2017, 90 people were killed in Kerio Valley, mostly by bandits. There was a lull in violence until January 5. The flareup in violence comes as residents continue to spend nights in the cold. The Monday violence occurred three days after bandits attacked herders in the Marakwet highlands, injuring four people in Kamelei and Kipsitona villages and displacing residents. In the Monday clash, bandits suspected to be from Tiaty, Baringo county, invaded Chesoo grazing field in Murkutwo, killing two herders from Kasegei village. Area chief Abraham Yano said more than 40 armed bandits ambushed the herders on Monday afternoon. A gunbattle ensued. Yano said Gregory Kipkemoi, 25, and Andrew Biwott, 28, died. He said police reservist Luka Kimaiyo was shot in the jaw and left arm. He was rushed to Kapsowar Mission Hospital and referred to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. “The raiders fled towards Loiywat in Tiaty,” Yano said. He urged his counterparts in Tiaty to help identify the bandits so they can be brought to book. Residents said the attacks have disrupted learning in Chesongoch, Ng’enyirel and Kombases primary schools. “Women and children are living in fear, because insecurity problems are becoming worse every day,” local peace coordinator Richard Kayab said. Kayab said failure by security agencies to arrest bandits may spark retaliatory attacks. Kimoi Betaki, who was Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen’s aunt, was buried on Saturday. Betaki, 63, was shot dead in Kaben, Marakwet East, on Saturday January 27, barely two days after Peter Komen, 50, a fisherman was killed in Arror, Marakwet West. At the weekend, Governor Alex Tolgos said residents will arm themselves if the state fails to protect them. Tolgos want security agencies, including KFS wardens, who are evicting illegal settlers in Embobut Forest, to be redeployed to protect residents. “There is one notorious cattle rustler known by everyone, including President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto. How can you fail to arrest such a criminal?” Tolgos asked. On Sunday Murkomen told the Star more than 150,000 people are in dire straits due to banditry, yet there’s potential to create wealth. The Kenya Red Cross Society said on Sunday more than 250 houses were torched in Kamelei and Kapsen. Four people were injured, including a teacher who was shot in the leg.