From a spiritual perspective, food is one thing that is provided by the almighty God, the Creator. If you disobey Him, kindly don’t expect to have food. Even those who are eating and disobey Him think that they are not affected. It is wrong since they are eating food and becoming obese, getting cancer, blood pressure and many other funny things. While one is dying because of malnutrition the other one is dying because of diseases. Respect God. Second, we don’t have the technical know-how to manage food in this country. We have land, water and resources, but we don’t know how to manage. Those with money buy land and leave it idle. Number Three is greed. People are greedy and are thinking of eating and/or pocketing whatever comes their way. They don’t care about the poor masses. All the resources available are being stolen. Everyone in government is stealing. Those in other offices are stealing money and assets that can improve the food supply. Others like the chiefs and the DCs are stealing relief food. Tens of thousands of investors who can invest in the food sector to ensure enough supply are running away because of corruption. I know of a Kenyan who studied at the University of Nairobi and went abroad for further studies. He came back and wanted to establish a food-processing firm, but those in authority forced him to run away. It is a sad state. Everyone wants to eat like a crocodile with an open mouth that wants to swallow everything that comes its way. Number Four is greed. If you can eat one slice of bread it has 129 grammes of calories, which is sufficient for a day. People want to eat more and hide the rest. Kenya has the best policies in the world, but the leadership is corrupt and causing a big mess for Kenyans. Kenya has the best intelligence, the best brains, best labour and the best human resource, but the leadership is dead. Those in power are interested in what goes into their pockets. The government lies to Kenyans that they have allocated money for irrigation and agriculture. Remember they are the supervisors, monitors and executors. They lie that they have brought the fertilisers, and yet they are just creating opportunities to steal. Kenyans must be mobilised and educated. The writer is a former presidential candidate in the last polls