This unconstitutional removal of rebel Jubilee legislators from their House leadership positions last month on orders from the Presidency is the height of political bad manners. It offended all the laws in the book. A major crime has been committed against Parliament, our democracy and the constitutional order. In functional democracies today, the authors and drivers of that heinous assault on the Constitution would be banished from holding public office pronto! The dictatorial ejection of Alfred Keter from the helm of the Labour and Social Welfare Committee, Silas Tiren from the chairmanship of the Agriculture Committee, James Gakuya from the leadership of Broadcasting and Library Committee and Kangogo Bowenfrom the vice-chairmanship of the Environment and Natural Resources Committee, should jolt progressive Kenyans into urgent and concerted efforts to reign in on this rogue regime. The argument by State House, Deputy President William Ruto and the Presidency’s enforcers-in-chief in the emasculation of the National Assembly, Aden Duale (leader of Majority) and Benjamin Jomo Washiali (Majority whip) that the multiple ousters were necessitated by constitutional dictates for regional and ethnic balance is not only laughable but also extremely dishonest. It was just UhuRuto’s show of might to exhibit their total control of Parliament. This presidency has effectively taken full control of the Legislature (of course plus the Judiciary through manipulation) and thrust the country back to the Kanu dictatorship years when Parliament was reduced to a mere rubberstamp of the Executive’s policies and whims. Legislation was manipulated just to sanitise dictatorship and anchor the imperial presidency by distorting and undermining constitutionalism. Oversight on the presidency and the Executive was criminalised and the criminal justice system was reduced to merely controlling the masses. Crooks and criminals in the ruling elite were untouchables just as today’s murderers of election official Chris Msando and the looters behind the NYS and Eurobond scandals. Did the architects of Daniel Moi succession in 2002 project a forceful Kanu rule for beyond 100 years as they had parroted many times prior, hence imposing a tailor-made candidature? Did Kenyan voters have a pre-monition of this unfortunate turn of events thus their rejection of that plot then? As Jubilee now, Kanu dictatorship thrived on negative ethnicity, ethnic cleansing, massive corruption, political assassinations, repression, authoritarianism, constitutional disorder, bad governance, non-accountable leadership and management by crisis. National values, development and welfare of citizens were not governance priorities. Hence, Jubilee Party leadership should be the last to talk of defending or upholding the Constitution in any regard, leave alone the key requirements for national cohesion and integration, regional, ethnic and gender balance or fidelity to constitutionalism and the rule of law. Citing the Constitution in the Keter and Company removal is a clumsy excuse. Besides, how can they defend their prolongation of the fraudulent hoarding of the presidency in two communities for 55 years to the forceful exclusion of other over 40 communities? Since assuming power in 2013, UhuRuto, through the Jubilee-dominated Parliament, have openly broken the law and circumvented key constitutional provisions on leadership hence the bad governance, rampant negative ethnicity in public institutions and state-tolerated massive corruption in the public sector. Where was their fidelity to the Constitution when Kenyan women and people living with disabilities were denied their constitutionally guaranteed share of representation in Parliament, Cabinet, senior Civil Service and parastatal appointments in their last regime? And where is it to intervene now when the same skewed, unconstitutional appointments and peopling of Parliament and the National Assembly are taking place? Where was Jubilee’s fidelity to the Constitution when their top leaders were brutalising and bulldozing the IEBC and the Judiciary to allow gross mismanagement of elections? Where was it when the National Police Service was arbitrarily re-colonised by the presidency and reforms in it stopped abruptly, so that it is used as a tool for political repression? To capture and control operations of Parliament is a constitutional coup and gross violation of the Constitution that demands clear separation of powers. The only intersection is the requirement for complementarity; but as equal arms! Some Kenyans have long dismissed the Jubilee government as a gathering of self-serving leaders who captured Kenyan politics and saddled the country with a savage enterprise disguised as government. The irony of it all is that Jubilee MPs, the Majority, have accepted to be bulldozed by the presidency to mutilate and abuse the Constitution. Why can’t they leverage on their numbers and join progressive forces in Parliament to call the presidency’s bluff on this as a mark of their maturity and patriotism? Otherwise they are accomplices and shameless beneficiaries of these legendary political crimes. No other explanation. Jubilee shouldn’t hoodwink Kenyans with good sounding excuses for this offense when we know clearly their Presidency, which they handle and own like partisan property, captured the Legislature unconstitutionally. It is public knowledge that the speakers of the two Houses and chairs of all departmental committees were picked by the presidency when Jubilee MPs were herded to State House and ordered to endorse it in parliament. That contravened the Constitution. Express orders for the ejection of the Keter Four were issued by the President at State House in a meeting attended by the Speaker and the clerk. It is evidence that Parliament has been reduced to a mere department of the presidency. This was earlier exemplified by the forceful change of crucial laws in December 2016 and in 2017 through orders from State House. To Keter and company, bravo for your courage and for exposing Jubilee’s decadence. Please do not relent. Fight on in court and all the other available avenues. Kenyans are with you. 