Land ownership wrangles have delayed the start of a project to build 3,000 houses in Kakamega town, an executive said yesterday. The houses are to be built on Mudiri and Otiende estates in partnership with private investors. The houses for county staff will be owned by investors until mortgages are paid off. Some will be reserved for government use. The two estates were built by the National Housing Corporation under the defunct Kakamega Municipal Council. The county is faced with an acute shortage of residential and office space. The county rents private buildings for some of its departments, while some county staff live in satellite towns due to lack of houses within the town. The government plans to pull down structures on the two estates and hand the site to investors to build skyscrapers. Lands executive Alfred Matianyi yesterday said the project has delayed because all public land is still under the ownership of the municipal council. “We have been working on the matter. Land transfer from the former local authorities to the county government was gazetted two months ago,” he told the Star on the phone. Matianyi said a number of investors, including Chinese firms, are interested in the project. “We are engaging all key stakeholders to work out modalities of implementing the project. We are still deliberating whether to handle the project as a housing scheme or a special purpose vehicle to deal with housing problems,” he said. Special purpose vehicle means the government and its partners will form a company to implement the project under a public-private partnership framework. On October 19, 2015, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya signed an MoU with the Housing Finance Group to improve housing conditions. The joint venture is meant to enable the HFG to raise its involvement in the supply of middle to lower income housing. “The HF Group is proud to sign an MoU with the Kakamega county government to put up 1,000 housing units for the county staff. HF Group will undertake the project on behalf of the county, and provide all requisite financing required,” MD Frank Ireri said.          