A prominent lawyer who has
represented President Uhuru Kenyatta
in several court cases is among 103 individuals whose title deeds to parcels of
land on Woodley Estate were recently canceled by the National Land Commission.
The titles for the land in and around Joseph Kang’ethe Estate were revoked
after it emerged that the land was irregularly transferred to them from the now-defunct
Nairobi City Council. The land was originally set aside for affordable housing
for city residents but ended up in the hands of the 103 individuals who paid a
premium of Sh1.1 million for each parcel. ***** WHO ordered for the retrieval
of official vehicles allocated to National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed? Well, the Opposition
legislators allegedly found themselves in the bad books of the Executive over Raila Odinga's oath. Many are now
questioning how Parliament, which is supposed to be an independent body, got
involved in the seizure of the vehicles and on whose instructions? Corridors
have also noted the loud silence of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi over the matter, which happened
over a week ago. Are the arms of government still independent? ***** A number of police officers
on Nairobi's Umoja Estate fond of using a Probox car are operating with
impunity, collecting 'taxes' and bullying the locals. Our moles tell us that
the officers do rounds of extortion on the estate and later congregate in
leisure joints to brag how much they have made in a day. The locals now want
Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to either transfer or discipline
them. On Sunday at Umoja 3, locals said the four police officers who
normally move as a unit blatantly collected bribes and boasted that they are
politically correct and no one can hold them to account for their criminal
actions. ***** WERE Jubilee MPs gagged
against reacting to NASA leader Raila
Odinga's swearing-in and aftermath? Well, Corridors have learned that some
powerful government operatives issued instructions to the politicians against commenting
on the crackdown on NASA leaders who spearheaded the oath-taking ceremony. Only
the party's top leadership in Parliament was sanctioned to discuss the issue.
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President
William Ruto have been silent on the
issue since, despite intense debate countrywide. ***** IS something fishy going on
in the election petitions, many of which have been dismissed? According to our
wag, the idea is to uphold most of the results and thereby sanitize the IEBC’s
conduct of the last General Election. Well, some senior counsel are mourning the
rate at which a number of “tight petitions” have been dismissed.  Click here for the latest political news