Farah Maalim will appeal against a ruling that upheld Garissa Township MP Aden Duale win. The court dismissed Maalim's petition and directed him to pay Sh6 million in costs. Justice Hedwig On'gudi ruled that there were no irregularities or malpractice that can annul the election. Maalim wanted Duale's win nullified on several grounds including irregularities, bribery and failure to signs prerequisite forms. More on this: Duale survives petition, court slaps Farah Maalim with Sh6m cost "I will appeal against the judgement of the high court on my petition. Alutta continua," Maalim said via Twitter on Tuesday. His post was received with mixed reactions as some of his tweeps asked him to accept and move on. "Lets embrace the culture of admitting defeats, and we move on, your lawyers are celebrating to hear you're going back for Appeal," @muchiridave2 said. @JohnieMuiah said "Just forget.. I remember you at one point saying Kenya deserves to move on, accept the fate and target near future." "Don't waste your time! Pay the man the 3million he goes ahead and buy Nazlin Umar the Lexus she is demanding Duale for him to access " Victoria Lounge" and use his Msolokombo," @AmakanjiThomas said. @znjoka said, "Accept and move on Farah." "Sorry Sir, It is never easy to lose but you only need to cut your losses, pay 6 Million in costs and wait for 2022. Unfortunately, It seems you are about to say you will swear-in yourself. It is not the end of the world," @MKJohn254  said. @mark_mwit said "Good go ahead and appeal it's your democratic right but u will not succeed." "Please don't. The locals don't even know in which side of the political divide do you belong. Go prepare and study and come back," @eddiehalwenge said. @AnneMar95661225 said "Sir, I believe you have good intentions and I am told you were a good Deputy Speaker but give up on this. Work with the government for the better of Kenyans. Good luck!" "Your loss is a deserved one, you had already joined hands with the oppressors, pretenders should just lose and lose and lose again, then get fined and fined and fined again," @wafula9244 said. 'Don't give up' "Never give up in life,alluta continua," @kemboieliud4 said. @mark_mwit said, "My friend this a democratic state Farah is free to do as he wishes." "Not every fall is the end, the rain is the most beautiful beginning. I support you your idea," @philosopher2017 said. Duale expressed joy after the High court upheld his election. "This victory is for the people of Garissa Township who endured long queues to make sure they elected the leader of their choice," Duale said.  More on this:Thanks to Allah for revealing the truth, 'happy' Duale says after election upheld