NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday warned that the country was slowly but steadily becoming lawless and described repeat the presidential election won by Uhuru Kenyatta as a “coup”. Raila spoke as the passports of 15 close allies were revoked by the government in a continuing crackdown on the Opposition. In a dramatic turn last evening, High Court judge Luka Kimaru ordered Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and the head of Flying Squad, Said Kiprotich, to personally present Miguna Miguna in court by 11am today. Justice Kimaru also suspended all proceedings against Miguna countrywide until he issues further orders. This came after a day-long hunt for Miguna by his lawyers and failure by Police to release him after the court ordered yesterday. Read: I’m ready to be sworn in, Wiper’s Kalonzo declares Raila told the BBC that President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government was illegally in office and was blatantly violating the Constitution by arresting NASA leaders, shutting media houses and suspending their passports. "That purported election was a coup de tat and a result of electoral autocracy. Kenyans are suffering under this corrupt and dictatorial regime because of the flawed electoral process that we must change," Raila said. Odinga’s symbolic inauguration last Tuesday at Uhuru Park was intended as a direct challenge to Kenyatta’s legitimacy. Odinga insists he, not Kenyatta, was the true winner of the disputed presidential election last August, which was annulled by the Supreme Court. The court concurred with Raila’s petition that the election was marred by such massive "irregularities and illegalities" as to be a nullity. It ordered a repeat within 60 days which Kenyatta easily won, and Raila boycotted, claiming it would not be fair without electoral reforms. Yesterday, Raila asked the international community to be objective when dealing with the Kenyan situation, which he called a circus. "The only solution to this circus is fresh election," he added on the day police finally presented and charged Miguna Miguna in a Kajiado court. The charge was facilitating Raila to perform a treasonable act. Miguna signed the oath Raila took before a mammoth crowd on January 30. He was charged with "being present and consenting to the administration of an oath" which resulted in "treason", "taking part in an unlawful assembly" and "engaging in organised criminal activity". Miguna refused to take a plea in Kajiado and demanded to be taken to the High Court in Nairobi where Justice Luka Kimaru had ordered he be produced before him. Kimaru later in the afternoon released him on anticipatory bail granted to the self-declared NRM General last Friday by Justice Wakiaga. He ordered Miguna to return to Kajiado to appear before resident Magistrate Edwin Mulochi on February 14. The judge let Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett and the Director of the Criminal Investigations George Kinoti off the hook. He said it may not be appropriate to require the two to appear since Miguna had been produced. He ruled that Miguna was at liberty to sue police over illegal detention, adding that his court was not the appropriate forum to seek for damages. The IG sent Stanley Cheruiyot — the director of legal affairs to represent him while the DCI sent SSP Amos Omuga. Their bosses were said to be held up at a security meeting that had been scheduled before the orders were issued. Miguna was accused of organizing a public meeting without notifying the officer commanding Central Police Station. A third count stated that he engaged in organised criminal activity at Okoa Kenya officers at Lavington. The prosecution claimed he professed to be a member of the outlawed NRM organisation on February 1. As Miguna’s drama was unfolding, the government suspended passports of at least 11 NASA leaders for the role they played in Raila’s swearing-in. They include former Senator Johnstone Muthama who yesterday was forced to call off his trip to the UK where he was taking his daughter for treatment. Others are ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho, Siaya Senator James Orengo, economist David Ndii, businessman Jimi Wanjigi, MPs George Aladwa, Simba Arati, George Khaniri, and NASA chief executive Norman Magaya. Others are Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and ODM executive director Oduor Ong’wen. Also revoked were passports of Raila’s aide Noah Akala, Ledama Olekina, Dr Adams Oloo, Rita Oyier and lawyer Edwin Sifuna. More on this: David Ndii's passport suspended amid Raila oath crackdown Sources indicated the government was also planning to suspend the passports of the “assumption of office” committee that organised the oathing ceremony. They all received standard letters signed by Immigration director Gordon Kihalangwa stating the passport had been suspended and should be surrendered within 21 days. "What this government is doing is wrong and won’t work. We are all heading to court because our rights are being violated," Muthama told The Star yesterday. News of the passport suspensions filtered in as Justice Kimaru granted all 12 NASA politicians anticipatory bail for involvement in Raila’s swearing-in. Also read: Where is Miguna? Raila leads vigil at Milimani courts as questions fly But Jubilee responded with a tweet, accusing some judges of shielding NASA politicians involved in 'contravening the Constitution'. "It is unfortunate and appalling that criminals can run to court and be hidden by a biased judge behind the same Constitution and laws they are in trouble for subverting in the first place," the party said on its Twitter account on Tuesday afternoon. It added: "It is undeniable that certain judges with long-known bias are working extra hard to aid individuals hell-bent to destabilise the country. #WakoraNetwork." Several NASA legislators and strategist David Ndii had just been granted Sh100,000 anticipatory bail each after they expressed fear the government may be planning to arrest them for attending Raila’s oath. Judge Kimaru ordered the applicants to appear before the DCI on Thursday to record statements. But in an interesting turn soon after, the police denied they have any interest in them. The revocation of passports escalates the face-off between the Opposition and the government in the courts. The Constitutional Court sitting three years ago ruled that a passport is a constitutional right to the attendant freedom of movement. MIGUNA REFUSES TO PLEAD Th e long hunt for Miguna ended yesterday when the police finally produced him in Kajiado, against the court order to present him in Nairobi. When he appeared before the magistrate, Miguna declined to plead to the charges. "I cannot take any plea because the state has denied me access to my family. For five days I have been locked up unlawfully," Miguna told the magistrate. As he was being escorted by police to the courts cell he retorted, "I am fearless, it does not matter what they do to me." Miguna landed at Kajiado law courts under heavy police escort and was taken straight to Court No 1. He appeared neat and once in a while smiled in the courtroom when his name was called out. Miguna listened attentively when all the three charges were read out to him. When he was asked by the magistrate to plead, he looked a the ceiling and started complaining about his illegal confinement in police cells. He did not mention his health but strongly condemned police for denying him access to his family. He said he did not understand why he was being tossed all over by the state and yet he was fully aware that he would have appeared at Nairobi laws courts on Monday. Miguna was arrested on Friday in a dawn raid on his home. He was granted bail of 50,000 Kenyan shillings ($500 ) but had remained in police custody with his whereabouts unknown — something Kenya’s lawyers’ association said breached his rights. "Once again the state is willfully violating M. Miguna’s rights by moving him without any notice to his lawyers or his family and, in order to frustrate their access to him, to a court stationed outside Nairobi," Isaac Okero, president of the Law Society of Kenya, told reporters. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i announced last week the government will crack down on everyone involved in Raila’s function. The signals of three privately owned television stations were disconnected on Tuesday as they began to cover the Odinga’s swearing in. Two resumed broadcasts on Monday, three days after a court had ordered them to be restored. Citizen TV, which had sued the government, is still disconnected. Click here for the latest political news 