Activist Okiya Omtatah has challenged the appointment of Senator Beth Mugo and MP Adan Keynan to the Parliamentary Service Commission. He moved to court yesterday to have their election nullified because they have served beyond the one term allowed by law. “This court be pleased to issue a temporary injunction restraining the respondent and/or its agents from giving effect, in any way, to the respondent’s appointment on Thursday February 22, 2018 of MP Adan Keynan and Senator Beth Mugo, as members of the Parliamentary Service Commission,” the petition says. Omtatah argues that unless the two appointments are suspended and Parliament is restrained from implementing or acting on the same, the Constitution will be violated further. “On Thursday, February 22, 2018, Parliament contemptuously and deliberately contravened Article 250-6(a) of the Constitution, as read together with Article 101-1 by approving two of its members to serve as commissioners of the PSC beyond the one term of five years allowed under the Constitution,” the petition reads. appointment null and void The activist says no provision of the Constitution expressly allows MPs to serve in the commission for more than one term of five years. “The approval of the two legislators to serve beyond the limit of five years is expressly unconstitutional and, therefore, invalid, null and void,” Omtatah argues. He says Parliament has threatened and violated provisions of the Constitution and the law, undermining constitutionalism and the rule of law. From the foregoing before court, the National Assembly has failed to respect, uphold and defend the Constitution, he says in the petition. law violated There are no provisions in law to support the impugned actions and omissions of Parliament, as it has failed to act within the law, Omtatah said. He added that Members of the National Assembly and the Senate must be stopped from ignoring the rule of law, which is a key national value and principle of governance. He also noted that the only way to fix the problem and avoid compromising the public interest is for the court to grant the orders he seeks.