About 70 men and women turned up in Kisumu Central constituency yesterday to be recruited into the KDF. Officers did not say how many applicants were men, how many were women, how many made the cut and how many were rejected. Lt Col Paul Kindochimu said his team was worried by the low turnout at Moi Stadium. Recruitment was also marred by confusion, as the IDs of some potential recruits did not indicate that they were born in the area. Kindochimu said the confusion was caused by the fact that Kisumu Central constituency was created recently, hence, IDs could not reflect that. He said about 20 youths were turned away because their IDs showed they come from Kisumu West constituency. “The exercise went well, except for a few challenges to applicants’ identity. We suspect some youths turned up for the second time after they were disqualified in an earlier recruitment in Kisumu East,” Kindochimu said. He said they are bound to experience the same problem in Kisumu West constituency today. On Monday, Kindochimu said, two applicants qualified in Kisumu East constituency. He said the process is transparent and cautioned applicants against attempts by conmen who promise to secure them places in the force. “Our recruitment is corruption-free. We want all potential applicants to come because they have a desire to join the force,” Kindochimu said. The KDF recruitment started countrywide on Monday. It will end on March 13. 2017 recruitment In May last year, KDF’s recruitment in Kisumu county was also marked by a low turnout that a senior officer said could not be explained. The security agency was in the county to scout for fresh Kenya Army and Air Force personnel. Lieutenant Kimeli Kosgei had said they received about 70 prospective applicants but most were eliminated for various reasons. Kosgei said some of them were not eligible for listing at the centre while others did not meet medical fitness requirements. They must meet weight and height requirements, have good dental hygiene, white teeth