Kenya has overcome Political and Fiscal shocks to achieve a stable outlook on its Long-Term Foreign and Local-Currency Issuer Default Rating. Fitch ratings which reviewed the outlook, also affirmed the IDR at B+, an indication Kenya is effectively implementing its fiscal consolidation plans and decline of government debt to GDP. Also on GDP, it is a trajectory statement that the country's debt will stabilize as well as the expected strengthening of GDP growth in 2018. It also shows that there is an Improvement in external balances that leads to a narrowing in the current account deficit and/or a decline in net external indebtedness. Thirdly, it also shows that the country is on the right track on implementing structural reforms that foster an improved business environment and faster economic growth. While the governments general debt to GDP increased to 58 per cent as at the end of the financial year ending 2017, from 40 per cent at the end of financial year 2011/2012, Fitch ratings expects that this will increase slightly to 59 per cent of GDP in financial year 2018. “This shift towards fiscal consolidation will help to stabilise public debt/GDP levels and anchor Kenya's macroeconomic framework,” Fitch rating analysts Jermaine Leonard said. Kenya got to the negative outlook following increased capital expenditure and government borrowing in support of large infrastructure projects under Kenya Vision 2030. Fitch also forecasts Kenya's general government fiscal deficit to narrow to 7.5 per cent of GDP in financial year 2018, from 8.9 per cent reported in financial year 2017. The forecast is larger than the 6.5 per cent of GDP target published in the 2018 fiscal year Budget to reflect revenue under-performance and a number of one-off expenditure overruns, including food imports and election-related spending. The B+ rating further exhibits Kenya strong macroeconomic stability, which will be supportive of its medium-term growth outlook. With high food prices dipping inflation rate to 12 per cent year on year until April 2017, after ending 2016 at 6 per cent, and falling to 5 per cent recently, a level within the Central Bank target range of negative 2.5 per cent to five per cent, Fitch assesses that the central bank is likely to begin moving towards a more accommodative policy later in 2018. It also notes banks will need stronger evidence of a negative impact on the population before convincing Parliament to repeal or amend the cap. Due to the intrest cap, credit growth likely reached its lowest point at two per cent year on year in October 2017, before increasing to 2.4 per cent by December.    