In English poet and playwright William Shakespeare’s famous play Anthony and Cleopatra, character Antony says, “The hearts/ That spaniel’d me at heels,/ to whom I gave/ Their wishes, do discandy, melt their sweets/ On blossoming Caesar.” Antony says those who had encouraged him, to whom he gave their wishes, had now turned their backs on him, choosing, instead, Caesar Octavius. Betrayal is a powerful theme in many Shakespeare plays, and shows that the subject was quite close to him, as it is, indeed, to many. Raila Odinga’s big day on Tuesday will not be remembered for his daring but for the betrayal by his co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula. Whoever had suggested that Raila take the oath of office as ‘People’s President’ probably did not anticipate it would occasion a massive fallout in NASA and, as things stand now, it may have dealt it the deathblow.  JUBILEE’S CLEAR PATH Analysts have now stated as things stand, Deputy President William Ruto has a clear path to 2022 and, for that, he can thank Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula. They had hoped to inherit Raila’s political base and use it in 2022. That has, however, all gone up in smoke. This has also given Jubilee the chance to invade their strongholds with the message of national unity. They will probably not find the same kind of resistance displayed by the NASA principals trying to ring-fence their strongholds. They have severely diminished their 2022 chances and nothing short of a miracle will erase their action in the collective national memory. How they abandoned Raila in his hour of need has been likened to the betrayal of Jesus by His bosom disciple, Peter, who watched from the sidelines as He underwent the Passion. Analysts also aver that their decision could tear apart the coalition altogether. The anger of all Nasarites has been directed at one person – Kalonzo Musyoka.  A POLITICIAN WITHOUT PRINCIPLE The political life of Kalonzo is a classic case of opportunism. He was just at the right place at the right time. But perhaps he has exhausted the Favour of Providence, or maybe not. Born in Tseikuru in Kitui in on December 24, 1953, Kalonzo first tried his hand in politics in the 1983 election for the Kitui North seat. He was 30. He was, however, beaten by winner Philip Manandu. But Manandu was shot dead by a deranged Administration Police officer and Musyoka emerged as the favourite and swept the by-election in 1985 aged 32. He soon joined the rank and file of the Kanu party – first as the organising secretary for the Kitui Branch and, in 1988, he was elected the Kanu national organising secretary. He also became an assistant minister for Works, Housing and Physical planning. He was appointed Deputy Speaker in 1988, a position he held until 1992, when Bonaya Godana took over. He would rise to become a powerful Cabinet minister in the Moi regime.  THE RIGHT OF MIGHT The adage, “You can remove the individual from Kanu, but you cannot remove Kanu from the individual” now rings true. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula were all ardent Kanuists in their day, holding powerful positions at the height of the Moi regime. They never saw any ill in the system, quietly hoping that some day, fate would favour them and succeed Moi. Raila briefly joined them at the same table but his saving grace would be the fact that he was always rocking the boat from within. But the three others followed Moi to the letter. They never uttered a single word in dissension and their belligerence to the fledgling opposition was without question. They propped up the state and made it powerful. They also believed in the right of might and expected nothing less from Jubilee, which is one reason they may have failed to turn up. Perhaps their failure to turn up had everything to do with their perception of state power and its repressive capacity. They had been told by Attorney General Githu Muigai that whoever took the Oath of Office would be engaging in a treasonable act. The seeds of their caution had been planted from their Kanu days. Some of the fears and perceptions they acquired in their youth appear to still haunt them.  LONG ROAD TO IGNOMINY On March 18, 2002, Raila’s National Development Party merged with Kanu to form the New Kanu. Raila joined the party his father had helped to form four decades earlier and was appointed the secretary general while Kalonzo, Katana Ngala, Mudavadi were appointed vice chairmen. However, a surprising appointment for vice chairman was that of political novice Uhuru. Three months later, Uhuru’s meteoric rise continued to baffle many when, on July 28, Moi named him his heir, passing over Vice President George Saitoti. On August 5, 2002 Saitoti, Joseph Kamotho and Raila formed the Rainbow Alliance, while at the same time insisting on being Kanu supporters. Moi interpreted the move as rebellion and sacked from Cabinet. Kalonzo and Mudavadi were not there. Only when it became apparent that he could do no better there, they decamped, but not immediately. Mudavadi had been Finance minister in the Moi government and the Goldenberg scandal was one of the highlights of his tenure. He, however, painted the picture of a leader who could not harm anyone. He kept that perception even as the Kanu leading lights decamped to join the opposition in 2002. He was appointed VP and went into the 2002 election as Uhuru’s running mate. This was to become the shortest serving VP. In the Kibaki administration, Wetang’ula presided over one of the the worst scandal to rock the administration. Serving as Foreign Affairs minister, it emerged the taxpayer may have lost as much as Sh1.1 billion through the sale of the Tokyo Embassy against the best advice of other government departments, including the host country. Uproar in the House forced Wetang’ula to ‘step aside’ but was afterwards returned to the Cabinet as Trade Minister in a reshuffle that saw Education Minister Sam Ongeri replace him.  THE ERA OF DISENGAGEMENT Even without the debacle at the swearing-in, NASA was already entering the era of disengagement. The brainchild behind NASA was Mudavadi. He came to NASA at a period of opposition integration that saw him amalgamate his ANC with Raila’s ODM, Kalonzo’s Wiper and Wetang’ula’s Ford-K. The new outfit became a formidable force in the run-up to the general election. It, however, failed to dislodge Jubilee from power. Like any coalition that wins or fails to win in an election, keeping together is a major challenge. NASA began entering the period of disengagement when disagreements were rife about the sharing of the Parliamentary committee positions. Raila’s swearing-in as the People’s President appears to only have been the straw that broke the camel’s back. Otherwise, it was heading there anyway.  BETRAYAL IN THE CITY Many Kenyans sat glued on their televisions awaiting for the unfolding situation. The stage was set for high drama when one television station after another got shut down. The action moved online and we were able to follow through live streaming. However, I was really looking out for those who did not attend. There was not a single Wiper MP, governor or leading lights such as Johnson Muthama, who has been one of the most vocal anti-Jubilee leaders. Governors Kivutha Kibwana and Charity Ngilu, who had publicly called for the swearing-in, were nowhere to be seen. But perhaps of greater shock is the absence of Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, who has been a vocal proponent of the swearing-in.  A RICH HISTORY OF BETRAYAL But Kenyan politics is not without its betrayal. Jaramogi Oginga Odinga was betrayed by his most trusted Kikuyu ally Bildad Kaggia who, on Friday August 1, 1969 quit KPU and returned to Kanu. Kaggia, an Independence hero and one of the Kapenguria Six, had espoused Socialist ideals and followed Odinga to teh KPU and paid for it when he lost his Kandara seat in the 1966 by-elections. He continued to stand with Odinga even though his financial circumstances greatly deteriorated in that period. However, just after the death of Tom Mboya, Kaggia did a major about-turn and abandoned Odinga, saying KPU had “become less and less effective”. Dr Gikonyo Kiano led him back to Kanu. This further isolated Odinga and diminished KPU functions. Already, the deputy leader of the opposition SM Kioko had shown indications he was not very keen on the idea of KPU. The party only lasted until the end of October that year, when it was banned and all its parliamentary members stripped of their positions. Worse still was jail. However, it was the eventual return of SKioko to Kanu that was a bitter pill to swallow for the Odinga political machine. Charles Njonjo made Moi President and defended him to the hilt against the Change-the-Constitution Movement of the 1970s. When Moi became President, the idea of a ‘traitor’ was hatched and bandied on Njonjo. In a well-choreographed move involving members of his family, including a close relative Andrew Muthemba, Njonjo was said to be heading a team of Kenyan leaders set to take over power from Moi in 1983. Njonjo had made Moi yet it was Moi who unmade him. Speaking to this writer, Njonjo recalled the day the 105-day day commission of inquiry into teh acctivities was terminated. He received a call from Moi who told him he was coming to his house in Muthaiga for tea. Njonjo welcomed Moi to his abode but asked him to grant him just one favour – not to mention the inquest or discuss any of it. Moi arrived shortly; guilt splashed on his face and having been gagged by Njonjo, had little else to say. Njonjo sat quietly as he saw his former friend and business partner, who kept silent all through as he underwent the inquest, fidget in his seat with little else to say. He finally offered Njonjo his diplomatic passport, which had been withdrawn during the inquest. Njonjo told him he was not interested in it, but would take an ordinary passport. The pain of betrayal was too much to bear.  ODINGA BETRAYED It is not the first time Raila has been betrayed by his friends-turned-foes. Earlier under the Narc Revolution, Mwai Kibaki betrayed him by signing an MoU he did not intend to keep. Now Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula have joined a spectacular story of betrayal.