Kenya stumbled towards another series defeat as they lost the second One Day International (ODI) match to host Zimbabwe ‘A’ by 110-run ‘Duckworth-Lewis’ method at Mutare Sports Club. Timycen Maruma and Prince Masvaure scored half-centuries apiece while Brandon Mavuta took four wickets as the trio inspired Zimbabwe ‘A’ to their second successive win of the four-match series. Electing to field, Kenya once again struggled in the field with the hosts, posting 299 runs for 8. In reply, Kenya batting had nothing much against the hosts with wickets falling regularly before finally folding on 141 in quest of a revised target of 252. Cephas Zhuwao, who had blasted 131 run off just 52 deliveries, including 13 sixes and 10 boundaries, continued with his good run with a quick-fire 44 off 22 balls. However, this time round, the batting honours belonged to Maruma and Masvaure, who scored 86 and 69 respectively to power Zimbabwe ‘A’ to 299 for eight in 50 overs after the hosts were asked to bat first having lost the toss. Ryan Murray chipped in with a valuable 45 as the middle order continued to shore up the innings. There were two wickets apiece for the trio of Nelson Odhiambo, Emmanuel Ringera and Lucas Oluoch. Kenya’s reply got off to a bad start and within the first five overs , hey were reeling at 27 for two, with both wickets claimed by Brian Vitori. Seven overs into the chase, the heavens opened up and the covers had to come out. Play could only resume more than an hour later, with the target now revised down to 252 runs from 35 overs. Zimbabwe ‘A’ captain Masvaure didn’t waste time introducing the spin trio of Mavuta, Rugare Magarira and Ryan Burl, who blew out Kenya for 141. Mavuta, with four for 45 from seven overs, was the pick of the home side’s bowlers, while Vitori also enjoyed a great outing as he finished with impressive figures of three for 24 from his seven overs. Although he had a single wicket to his name, Magarira was the most parsimonious of the Zimbabwe ‘A’ bowlers as he conceded only 14 runs in his seven overs. The next match is scheduled for today at the same venue.