City MCAs yesterday put the county finance chiefs on the spot over 'irregular' repayment of a Sh880 million loan to Co-operative Bank. The ward representatives questioned how the county made the huge payment without seeking the assembly's nod as required by the law. Finance executive Vesca Kengogo and acting Finance chief officer Ekaya Alumasi had told the Public Accounts Committee they repaid the loan  – an overdraft taken by the previous administration - in last November. But acting committee chairman Moses Ogeto hard-pressed Kengogo and Alumasi to cite the law they used in repaying the loan. Kengogo told the committee the county did not authorise Co-operative Bank to deduct the money from the County's Revenue Fund account it holds with it. “The bank actually paid itself because we did not write to them to deduct the money. JamboPay [online payment system] sends all the money it collects for us to bank, and that is where the money was deducted,” she said. But Ogeto insisted that the bank could not have acted without the county's instructions. “There is something fishy that we are not being told because the law is very clear that the county assembly must approve both borrowing and repayment of any loan,” he said. The Public Finance Act states that the County Assembly shall approve borrowing and repayment of loans by the county government. Alumasi said the bank relied on the Banking Act, but admitted the provisions of the Act does not conform with the Public Finance Management Act. The finance bosses were also questioned why the county has been spending the locally generated revenue at source, instead of taking it to Central Bank as stated in law. Auditor General Edward Ouko had in his 2015-16 audit report revealed that out of the Sh11.2 billion the county collected during the year, only Sh2.8 billion was deposited into the County Revenue Fund Account at the CBK. But Kengogo said the financial arrangements the county had made with some debtors could not allow all the internally generated money be swept to CBK. “Some of the money were being deducted immediately it was deposited at Commercial Bank awaiting sweeping to the CBK, because of the arrangements we had,” she said. The law requires all locally collected revenue channelled to CBK for accountability purposes. “Due to erratic cash flow, the county on the other hand is faced with operational crises, which in many occasions require urgent attention,” Kengogo said. She cited garbage collection, floods, fire outbreaks and collapsing of building as some of the crises that compelled the county to spend the money at a source. 