Doctors employed by medical schools have issued a 14-day strike notice. The 605 lecturers demand that they be paid the medical risk allowances and the emergency call allowances awarded to doctors last year after their three-month strike. The medics agreed to return to work and were to get new allowances backdated to January 1 last year, after the end of the strike that began on December 5, 2016. Yesterday, they gave the government 14 days to pay them Sh788 million in arrears — backdated to January last year. The lecturers are members of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists’ Union and some are also members of the University Academic Staff Union. “Uasu supports this stand because they are our members, but they are also professionals on their own right,” University of Nairobi Uasu representative George Omondi said. But the national government insists the allowances were only meant for doctors employed by the Ministry of Health and the county governments. “Lecturers in medical schools are not party to the collective bargaining agreement. We advise that they raise their concerns through their union to their respective employers [University Councils or the Ministry of Education],” outgoing Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu said in a statement recently. CBA doubled salaries The 605 medics are employed by their respective university councils, but the CBA was signed by KMPDU, the Ministry of Health and the Council of Governors. The CBA doubled the salaries of all medics employed by the two institutions and gave them new allowances. KMPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga said that “traditionally” medical lecturers also received allowances payable to doctors working in hospitals. He said medical lecturers and other doctors were awarded a pay rise uniformly in 1994, 2003 and 2011. “It is our plea that the clinical service allowances, namely medical risk allowances and emergency call, be forthwith paid in arrears to end further discrimination of doctors working in public universities,” he said at a press conference at Kenyatta National Hospital yesterday. Medical risk allowance and emergency call allowances are usually paid to practicising doctors because of the risks and nature of their clinical work. KNH, MTRH to suffer Ouma said the Sh788 million was included in the Sh4.8 billion supplementary budget that paid doctors increased salaries and allowances last year, but was not remitted to the universities to pay their medics. If the new allowances are granted, a professor will earn an extra Sh70,000 and a senior lecturer Sh86,000 more every month. “If the country is serious on universal health coverage, you must be serious about human resource. The money has been given and we know it. It must be given in full to our members,” KMPDU chairman Samuel Oroko said. He said if the strike goes ahead, it could ground KNH and Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, which are largely run by medical schools. The strike could disrupt learning in at least seven university medical schools.