An Indian firm that was contracted to build eight electricity transmission lines connecting wind farms to Kenya’s power grid has collapsed. It becomes the second firm in the Vision 2030 project to go under before completing work, exposing taxpayers to heavy fines for delays in completion. A consortium of lenders led by the State Bank of India in July, last year commenced bankruptcy proceedings against Jyoti Structures Limited in a bid to recover more than Sh110.3 billion in loans, a move that could jeopardise the firm’s projects, including the ones it was contracted to do in Kenya. Jyoti’s collapse followed that of Spain’s Isolux Corsan, which also collapsed last year under the weight of a Sh153 billion debt load. The Spanish firm’s collapse has already made the owners of Lake Turkana Wind Power slap taxpayers with a Sh5.7 billion fine for failing to connect their farm to transmission lines as per the agreed January 2017 completion date. Kenyans will have to pay an additional Sh1 billion monthly if the transmission lines Isolux Corsan was building are not complete by June this year. The Treasury has already catered for the Sh5.7 billion fines by Lake Turkana Wind Power, and in January announced any penalties arising from further delays to completion of the Marsabit-Suswa line will be absorbed by electricity consumers through power bills. Jyoti signed several contracts with Kenya Electricity Transmission Company between 2012 and 2016, but is yet to complete most of the work it was hired to do. The firm is currently being liquidated in India. The first attempt to auction its assets in December failed after only one firm emerged as the sole bidder. Plans are underway to repeat the auction process. diverting payments Details of Jyoti’s collapse have emerged in a High Court suit filed by UBA Bank, which is seeking to recover $2.5 million (Sh250 million) from the Indian firm and Ketraco. UBA says it has been giving loans to Jyoti for construction projects in Kenya and Tanzania, on condition that the Indian firm deposits its proceeds with the lender. The bank now says that since December 2016, Jyoti has been diverting payments from Ketraco and Tanzania Electric Supply Company to other banks, an indication that the Indian firm may be planning to evade debts it owes to the lender. UBA is pursuing loans it advanced to Jyoti for the already commissioned Isinya-Suswa power transmission line.Ketraco had also hired Jyoti to build the Lesos-Kabarnet, Nanyuki-Nyahururu, Olkaria-Narok, Sotik-Bomet and the Ishiara-Kieni and Mwingi-Kitui-Wote-Sultan Hamud transmission line for power transmission lines for Sh3.5 billion. Jyoti was also contracted to build the Turkwell, Ortum and Kitale substations for Sh2.07 billion. “As we followed up the matter, we received information that Jyoti Structures was pursuing direct payments of the balance of the sum due on account of the commissioned Isinya-Suswa power transmission line. This prompted us to write to Ketraco and demand that it should withhold all further payments due to Jyoti.” good faith “This email communication was acknoweldged by Ketraco but we remain apprehensive that Jyoti could still maneuver and obtain payment from Ketraco, leaving UBA exposed,” UBA’s company secretary Fred Chumo says in an affidavit filed in court. Ketraco in its response admits that it complied with instructions from Jyoti to pay some of the proceeds of the Isinya-Suswa line to the Mumbai-based firm’s account with Bank of India. But Ketraco insists that the payment was made in good faith, and that it is ready to comply with any orders Justice Joseph Louis Onguto will issue. It however wants the judge to limit his orders to payment in regard to the Isinya-Suswa line. Ketraco still owes Jyoti Sh420 million for the Isinya-Suswa line. The judge has issued a temporary order directing Ketraco to only pay sums owed to Jyoti through the Indian firm’s account with UBA. “Ketraco is willing to be bound by any order made by this court in respect of the money owed to Jyoti in respect of the Isinya-Suswa project. Directing payment terms to Jyoti in respect of other projects between it and Ketraco will have a detrimental effect to the activities of Ketraco in other parts of the country.” “The contractual relationship UBA, Jyoti and Ketraco in this suit is limited to the Isinya-Suswa project and in this regard, dictating payment terms in respect of other projects is unfair and beyond the scope of the contract between the parties,” Ketraco’s manager, project finance Henry Choge says. Ketraco last month sealed a Sh9.6 billion deal that will see a consortium of Chinese firms complete the works left undone by Spain’s Isolux Corsan. The state corporation is however yet to announce whether it has plans in place to replace Jyoti, or whether the deal with NARI Group Corporation and Power China Guizhou Engineering Company will include the undone works by Jyoti. Click here for the latest political news