There is fear among Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s allies positioning to succeed him. It is uncertain if Joho will front them or instead pick Mombasa County Assembly Speaker Aharub Kharti, who appears to be the heir apparent.MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu) both harbour governor ambitions. Joho’s following is undisputed, which would be a political weapon if passed over to any of the three. The silent but increasingly bothersome concern over who Joho will support has been brewing for months. On Friday, it was amplified by Nyali MP Mohamed Ali in a warning to Nassir. “Abdulswamad, I’m sending you a message – you will be dumped. Don’t work with these people. They are selfish and have turned Mombasa into their personal property,” he said at the High Court in Mombasa. “Today they don’t want another leader in Mombasa save for their own; a leader who will rubberstamp their businesses.” There are divided responses and those in Joho’s circle are responding in undertones. Joho yesterday refused to be dragged into the debate and reserved his comments. Kharti denied plans to rule Mombasa. Despite Joho and his advisers remaining cagey about their 2022 plans, there have been public moves that confirm Kharti will take over. Nicknamed The Prince, the speaker has organised activities, including football matches, to endear himself to the youth, who are the majority voters. He was at the forefront in welcoming NASA leader Raila Odinga when he landed from Zimbabwe last week. Whenever he is with Joho, Kharti is accorded an opportunity to address the public, unlike his predecessor, Thaddeus Rajwayi. Before Kharti came to the fore, Nassir was the political face of the county in Joho’s absence. He led the anti-IEBC demonstrations when the governor was overseas. ODM rallies in the run-up to the August 8 General Election last year were spearheaded by Nassir. Nassir was unreachable for comment. Twalib yesterday said he is an experienced politician and his track record will win him votes, not an individual’s backing. “From now until 2022, I will be judged on what I do for the people of Jomvu,” he said on the phone. Twalib said his ambitions will not be punctured if Joho dumps him. “We appreciate the fact that Joho has been an influential figure all along. I don’t think he will hinder me.”