An 18-man Kenya Simbas squad started training yesterday ahead of the Rugby World Cup qualifiers slated for June. The team will have two training session for the next one month (Monday and Tuesdays) and more players are expected to be added to the squad in the coming weeks Team manager Wangila Simiyu said the team is fitter than last year despite the delayed start to preparations. “The boys are fitter and well conditioned. Last year, we started in March while this year we have started early and the players are relishing the challenge of qualifying for the World Cup for the first time,” he added. The union is, however, yet to appoint a coach following the departure of South Africa’s Jerome Paarwater in December. Sources familiar with the situation, said the Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) have short-listed three candidates for the job with coach from New Zealand, Australia or Wales as front runners. “At the moment I can’t disclose who we are likely to settle for. We are still in negotiations about the pay and duration of the contract and we will announce successful candidate in the next two weeks time,” added Omwela. Zimbabwe, who are one of Simbas rivals in the qualifiers, have appointed former Springbok coach Pieter De Villiersto take charge hence leaving no doubt about their intention to battle for the single available automatic World Cup ticket. Simiyu expressed confidence that Kenya can qualify for the showpiece in Japan. “We do have a challenge in finance but the spirit of the boys is good and they are relishing the challenge of playing and qualifying for the event,” he added. Kenya play away to Morocco on June 23 before facing Zimbabwe seven days later at the RFUEA grounds. The Simbas then face neighbours Uganda on July 7 at home, then Tunisia on August 11 before facing a potential decider away to Namibia on August 18. The winner of the six-nation tournament will automatically qualify for the World Cup while the second placed team will be subjected to a four-nation repacharge tournament that will involve a team each from the Americas, Europe and Asia. Squad: Oscar Simiyu (KCB), Philip Ikambili (Homeboyz), Dennis Karani (Impala), Wilson Kopondo (Quins), George Nyambua (Kabras Sugar), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore Leos), Davis Chenge (KCB), Stephen Otieno (Homeboyz), Samson Onsomu (Impala), Nato Simiyu (Impala), Jacob Ojee (KCB), Leo Seje (Impala), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Alex Olaba (Quins), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Curtis Lilako (KCB), Martin Owila (KCB) and Michael Wanjala (KCB).