It might still be early days in the season but the usual title contenders — Tusker, Ulinzi Stars — are already falling over themselves to get out of the championship race. It was always going to take a huge effort to challenge holders Gor Mahia for the title in what is Dylan Kerr’s first full season in charge. That challenge now will seemingly come from unlikely quarters with Mathare United now in the driving sit with maximum points from their two matches following yet another come from behind victory this time against Nzoia United. Francis Omondi was the hero for Mathare United as he converted an 83rd minute penalty to hand the team a hard fought victory against the visitors at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. George Mutimba had put Nzoia the lead at the half-hour mark and they maintained it until the 77th minute when Chrispine Oduor equalized for the Slum Boys. Omondi scored from the spot six minutes later to hand Mathare the crucial win. Gor, however, with a superior goal difference with just one game played can  overtake them should they manage to pick all three points away at Zoo Kericho today. The champions started their CAF Champions League sojourn on a winning note and will be hoping to take that feel-good-effect to their league clash and send an early statement of intent to the pretenders to their throne. Jacqeus Tuyisenge, who has barely got a look in this season will likely be handed the responsibility of leading the search for goals against Zoo. Hat-trick hero on the opening day, Meddie Kagere, will also be keen to add to his goal tally while Ivorian Ephraim Guikan, who scored a stunning second in the 2-0 win over Leones Vegeteranios will be looking to make his domestic debut. After the disappointment of the home draw against Madagascar side Fosa Juniors in the CAF Confederations Cup on Sunday, AFC Leopards must channel their frustration to seeking a first league win of the season when they clash with Wazito. Leopards were held to a 1-1 draw, a result that left them needing to win away to keep their continental journey on track. Bandari and Chemelil Sugar, who fought out to a goalless draw are behind Mathare in second and third respectively with four points. Nzoia are bottom of the table with no point from two matches.