NASA, who were
gearing up to conduct an illegal oathing for Raila Odinga immediately declared
the Jubilee administration were scared of how successful their swearing-in
event would be. They also insisted that what the government did was
dictatorship, and the reason they were swearing in their own president. However,
certain small inconsistencies in what happened that day show Matiang’i might
very well have saved Kenya from falling into the abyss. First, NASA had
not set up a public address system at Uhuru Park as late as 9am on their big
day! In fact, they did not start looking for a public address until police were
withdrawn from Uhuru Park! This then begs the question; why mobilize so
heavily, and not plan for a public address? My guess is they did not actually
expect to hold the rally. Second, two
days after the ‘swearing-in’ the police circulated a video showing a man
captured on CCTV cameras aiming a firearm at a Police vehicle with intent to
fire on before the NASA “swearing-in” began. Fortunately the vehicle moved too
fast and he did not manage to shot. The same person is later seen urging a
large group of young men into Uhuru Park. My hypothesis
is that NASA never planned to hold any kind of swearing-in. They knew it would
have absolutely no effect, and would thus make them look stupid, locally and
internationally. But they needed the non-event to be stopped, publicly, by the
Jubilee administration. I am convinced
that some diabolical mind in NASA — and there are many in that outfit — came up
with a plan to force a confrontation with the police, and then ignite violence.
All they needed was a park full of charged NASA supporters surrounded by armed
officers, with the whole world glued to their TV screens. Somewhere in
the middle of that confused and excited crowd someone would shoot at a police
officer. The police would instinctively shoot back to defend themselves. Then
maybe a child, an old woman or a man on a wheel-chair would be shot; most
probably by the same person who shot at the police. Then cries of 'the police
have killed a child!' would ring out. The crowd would
go mad and turn on whichever police officer was near them. They would attack
them with stones, machetes, branches and their bare hands. The police would open
fire to defend themselves. People would die left, right and centre. Other
police contingents would be called in. The death toll would be horrifying. And
it would all be broadcast live on national and international television.
Violence would break out across the country, making it ungovernable. The state
would collapse. A few
days later Raila Odinga would step in — maybe from a neighboring country where
he would have run to, immediately the violence started and condemn the violence
and lay the blame squarely on Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto. He would demand
for the AU and UN to stop “the massacre of innocents by Uhuru’s militia”. Uhuru
would be declared an illegitimate President who has turned his country’s
security forces on his own people. The whole world would turn against him. President Uhuru
and DP Ruto would now be the ones begging for dialogue. Raila and Kalonzo Musyoka
would insist the time for dialogue is over. Uhuru and Ruto would be hounded out
of office, in chains like President Laurent Gbagbo of Côte d'Ivoire in 2011.
Raila would then be installed as President, in a neighboring country, as  happened to Adama Barrow of Gambia, and then
cross over like a knight in shinning armour. (Kalonzo actually warned us that
Kenya would go the South Sudan, Somalia way after January 30, unless Uhuru spoke
to Raila). Then Matiangi
switched off the media! 