Embattled Nzoia Water Services Board managing director Patrick Munialo on Friday blamed cartels and infighting among top managers for his woes and dwindling fortunes of the company. The company has been struggling to pay staff and repair water lines, causing major water shortages in the two counties. The staff have not been paid from November last year. Mumialo was suspended two weeks ago, but later obtained a court order restraining the board from pushing him out. The board wanted to replace him with Kennedy Wekesa in acting capacity. Speaking to the Star on February 1, board of directors chairman Lusweti Furaha said the decision to suspend Munialo was arrived at after advisories from the auditors and the Water Regulatory Board that showed gross mismanagement of funds at the company. It has now emerged that even after the court issued an order barring Munialo's suspension, the board on February 1 wrote a fresh suspension letter. Munialo told the Star he is being fought by some cartels, a section of managers and politicians. He accused some top managers of running cartels and using politicians to conceal evidence against "activities of graft" they had participated in. “All these fights you see and arbitrary abuse of court orders are caused by those who want to replace me. They are the same people behind the collapse of the company,” Munialo said. He has urged the EACC to investigate the managers that have allegedly led to the company losing millions of shillings. “I'm ready to table evidence of the steps I took by writing to this managers to come clean and explain the loss of millions of shillings in their hands. They opted to conspire with cartels to fight me,” Munialo said. The Star is in possession of the correspondence between Munialo and the managers he now blames. Munialo said while he will not fight to remain at the helm of the company he has headed for 10 years. He faulted the move by the Bungoma government to use county askaris to block him from accessing his office, despite the court order. “Everything should be done according to the law so that chaff is separated from wheat,” he said. He said his woes started when he started cracking the whip on some managers who were involved in "graft". Nzowasco is the water service provider for Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties. The company has and has been on the verge of collapse. Governors Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia and Bungoma's Wycliffe Wangamati have expressed concern over the management of the company, calling for a total overhaul of management.     