Proverbs 13:2 “Hope deferred makes the heart sick.” A famous preacher once gave a fiery homily to a class of pre-schoolers. He extolled the virtues of heaven, painting a mental picture in stark relief against hell. “Heaven,” he said, “is paved with gold. There is no night there, only endless days of rapturous joy.” “Hell, on the other hand,” he thundered, “is composed of burning sulphur, brimstone and infinite darkness.” After the sermon, he asked all the kids who wanted to go to heaven to raise their hands. All did save for one little boy who sat arms folded. “Johnny,” the preacher asked, “Don’t you want to go to heaven like all the other kids?” Johnny replied, “Yes I do, but my mother told me to go straight home after Sunday school.” Politics, like religion, thrives in the purveyance of hope. It flourishes even better where there is a confluence of hope and fear. The most successful politician is, therefore, the one who not only paints a compelling picture of perfection but also provides a roadmap towards the same. The second most successful politician is the one who conjures a dire picture if his/her opponent is elected to office. Raila Odinga is the embodiment of these conflated notions. He inspires great hope in his followers and immitigable fear in his detractors. For close to three decades now, Raila has built a formidable brand over his promise to deliver heaven to his followers. In last year’s closely contested presidential election, he promised to deliver nothing short of Canaan, the biblical land flowing with milk and honey. That he pulled out of a court-sanctioned repeat poll, citing a biased electoral commission, is now water under the bridge. The wisdom of that decision, though, is still the subject of debate. Uhuru Kenyatta is now President, having beaten the other inconsequential opponents. On Tuesday, January 30, Raila was sworn in as the “people’s president.” This was after NASA and Uhuru’s government were unable to agree on an agenda for national dialogue. That such an agenda is sorely needed cannot be gainsaid. What is debatable is the wisdom behind the “swearing-in” and the fact that there is no constitutional provision for such an act. What is particularly baffling to both friend and foe is that Raila has spent most of his life fighting for the rule of law. The actions last Tuesday, therefore, fly in the face of a lifetime spent creating a brand. There are those who argue that Raila’s actions are not entirely of his own volition. Rather, there are people who derive political relevance from the brand itself. These are those who occupy national elective offices purely by dint of proximity to the brand. These are the ones who fight tooth and nail to ensure the brand remains visible, even at the risk of a breach of the law. But the brand is tired. And it is evident in Raila’s countenance. No amount of hair dye or jigging to popular tunes in political rallies can belie the fact that Raila is past his prime. Those who goad him for their own selfish ambitions risk the danger of diluting Raila’s hard earned brand equity. The fear factor that Raila evoked is now slowly but surely ebbing away so that even junior politicians, who could never hold a candle to him, are now calling his actions a nullity. The government reacted to Raila’s swearing-in admirably. It took the best possible action to forestall what would have been an inevitable and violent confrontation, going by past precedent. It did nothing! And it was brilliant! The thunder was stolen from NASA. Having succeeded in turning Raila’s “swearing in” into a tribal, laughable and forgettable farce, the government went on to pull the plug on four television broadcasters considered friendly to the opposition. But they did not do so in strict adherence to the law. And so, by a violation of Article 34( 1 ) of the Constitution, Raila got a lifeline. The government has now provided him with the notion that it does not follow the law and can, therefore, be confronted only by unconstitutional means. Our Constitution is the mother of all laws in Kenya. Like little Johnny, who wouldn’t “go to heaven” without his mother’s consent, no promise of utopia that violates the Constitution must be countenanced. The indigent in society must be given real hope most of all by the government of the day. That is its sacred duty. Similarly, high-handed repression of media rights and freedoms must cease forthwith. So should the sending of agents provocateurs to create mayhem where people exercise their rights to assemble and demonstrate peacefully against the excesses of the state. These are our inalienable rights enshrined in our Constitution. We are not begging for them.     