Meru Senator Mithika Linturi suffered a major blow on Tuesday when the High Court approved Mugambi Imanyara's withdrawal of his election petition. Imanyara filed an application to withdraw the case against Linturi before Justice Ann Ong’injo on February 5. Linturi opposed the withdrawal saying he was validly elected and that he was keen on disproving claims he is not qualified and that he rigged the election. Read: Linturi opposes Imanyara’s bid to withdraw election petition "The petitioner has complied with all the requirements of an application for leave to withdraw a petition," the judge ruled on Tuesday. "It would be futile to precede with a petition without a petitioner as any subsequent orders made maybe made in vain for lack of a party to execute." The court said that although the petitioner's appointment was not foreseeable, he will pay some costs. "Since the court has not had the opportunity to determine whether the petition is successful or not, the petitioner will pay costs to mitigate expenses incurred by respondents, a global sum of Sh500,000 jointly for the IEBC and the County Returning Officer and Sh500,000 for Linturi would in my view be sufficient." Linturi's lawyer had asked the court to fully assess the costs, certify that he had three advocates and cap the costs at Sh15 million. Tom Ojienda had claimed his client was being blackmailed and forced to sign documents that would see him pay all costs for petitioner's and respondent's advocates. He had also said that with the withdrawal, his client would be haunted throughout his five-year tenure by the claim that he conspired with the IEBC and RO Macharia Gichichi to righ the election. Ojienda added that Imanyara's appointment as chairman of the National Standards Council was not a good reason for the withdrawal and noted that the only remaining bit was the presentation of submissions. He further noted that the petitioner and respondents had testified and closed their cases. The court also heard that Imanyara's application was not in good faith as it "disturbingly violated" rule 21(6) of election petitions rules 2017. Ojienda had also opposed an affidavit by Zablon Mathenge, who unsuccessfully vied for Senator, to substitute and proceed with the petition. Imanyara's lawyer James Ochieng refuted the claims of blackmail and noted that Linturi had not filed a police report. Ochieng, who was with his colleague Martin Gitonga, also said that Linturi's application against the withdrawal was aimed at winning sympathy. He said the petitioner (Imanyara) did not support the application for substitution because Mathenge could file his own affidavits if he had sufficient grounds. Regarding costs, he said: "A withdrawal does not go into the merits of the petitioner. Each party should bear its own costs." In her ruling however, the judge noted that lawyer Kiogora Mugambi who filled in for Ojienda, did not oppose the application when it was filed. Click here for the latest political news