The petition seems to be premised on certain presumptions that the petitioner is making about the operations of the JSC that I am not sure he has any proper basis to do. Coming at a time when the Judiciary has been threatened more than once by members of the Executive it make me very apprehensive. Maybe this is the “revisiting” that they were promised. That cannot be a good thing for the independence of the Judiciary. The Judiciary must invest in its independence and guard it jealously. So, when you see someone bringing a petition of this nature, particularly when it is premised on presumptions the petitioner is making about how decisions within the JSC have been reached and making a commentary on some decisions that are still subject to JSC investigations, it is quite improper. My message to Parliament and the Committee that will be scrutinising this petition is simple: Be very, very careful when putting your minds to this matter and examine in particular the bona fides of the petitioner. The institution of the Judiciary, which includes the JSC, must not be the subject of spurious attacks as we have witnessed. Therefore Parliament should be careful not to upset the separation of powers by reacting to such a petition without examining the bona fides of the petition. By this I mean whether the petitioner has found proper and good intentions, or whether the petitioner is in fact executing whims and desires of those who have been attacking the Judiciary for being independent. Any time the Judiciary comes under attack, all Kenyans should be worried because then that is an attack on the rule of law and an attack on our democracy. I saw the most recent letter from a Jubilee Party official and my advice to the Chief Justice is just to ignore it. The CJ, we must remember, is the head of one of the arms of government and the way in which those complaints were framed was not something that the CJ should react to. A general complaint against the Judiciary that was sent to the head of that arm of government, expecting him to respond, was itself very demeaning of the institution of the Judiciary and of the office of the Chief Justice. We must rise up and protect our democracy.   