A senior ODM official could be in trouble with his political party. The man is being accused of being too close to Jubilee politicians while still pretending to be a confidant of Opposition chief Raila Odinga. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man is close to both Speaker Justin Muturi and Majority Leader Aden Duale. It is claimed that he was once heard saying that were it not for the NASA directive, he would gladly vet President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominees. Some party insiders are accusing him of lack of commitment and calling for severe sanctions against him. ***** Officials at a certain ministry are having a hard time accessing the new Cabinet Secretary. They say that he has surrounded himself with a team he moved with from his previous docket, which has created a perimeter wall around him. As a result, sometimes, there is total breakdown in communication and service delivery. The tough CS once warned his staff to shape up or ship out. Last week, the CS had planned to tour the country and find out the status of some of the facilities under his docket. He wanted several stakeholders to accompany him, but they were left out at the last minute from a tour that would have been an eye-opener on illegal activities at one of the country's major resources. Handlers of the CS informed the officials they would not travel without giving them “a reason”. ***** People in the Office of the President, baptized OP, can be cruel. Our mole tells us that if you are close to the President, DP or anyone powerful and you don't take care of their interests OP operatives will soon fix you. They just make sure that you are given a job at a parastatal to stay away from the Presidency or any other powerful office. This will help you lose your networks and other connections with time. A parastatal director was last week forced to pull down his update after he complained on Facebook. ***** A Chief Administrative Secretary in a lucrative ministry has already started causing havoc even before the ink on his appointment letter is dry. The former politician has taken staff at the ministry located in the Upper Hill area aback with orders they are not used to. The former vocal MP reportedly asked to be assigned three official cars, against government protocol that entitles him to two. Last week, he summoned the transport officer and dressed him down and told him to find a way of allocating him one more car. The early riser has also ordered his staff to be in the office by 7.30am.