NASA will continue to pile pressure on Jubilee until President Uhuru Kenyatta resigns like Jacob Zuma of South Africa, Siaya Senator James Orengo has said. He said the pressure and Kenyans’ resistance of the Jubilee regime will automatically push Uhuru out of power in the coming weeks. Orengo was addressing residents of Gem at Wagai on Sunday accompanied by Governor Cornel Rasanga and Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo. He said nobody will coerce Uhuru to vacate office, but he will do so voluntarily as a result of surrounding circumstances. “What is the difference between Uhuru and former South African President Jacob Juma, who vacated office in 48 hours, despite being the commander-in-chief of the armed forces?” Orengo said. He said Raila’s oath-taking was a good move and the legal instruments of power will be passed to the People’s President in broad daylight. Rasanga urged NASA to work on a mechanism to dislodge Uhuru from power. “President Uhuru risks losing the presidential seat to Raila if strategies crafted by NASA coalition are adopted and executed in a more organized way,” he said. Orengo urged supporters to have confidence in NASA as they work on keeping their promise to deliver them to Canaan. Orengo said former Attorney General Githu Muigai’s resignation was just the tip of an iceberg and the Jubilee government will follow suit after Uhuru’s resignation. “Githu purported that Raila committed treason by taking the oath as People’s President. I advised him to interpret the law correctly, or go back to school; he has finally opted for a refresher programme,” the senator said. Raila swore himself in as ‘People’s President’ on January 30 in Uhuru Park, Nairobi. The oath was administered by opposition lawyer Miguna Miguna and witnessed by Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’. Kajwang’ and Miguna were later arrested. Kajwang’ was charged with being present and consenting to the administration of an illegal oath, while Miguna was deported to Canada. The government said he renounced his citizenship when he became a Canadian citizen. Fifteen NASA members have had their passports revoked, including economist David Ndii, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, Orengo, businessman Jimi Wanjigi and NASA chief executive Norman Magaya. Click here for the latest political news 