Increased banditry in the Kerio Valley is not only claiming lives but also hurting education and destroying the region’s economic potential. Governors are alarmed and additional GSU officers have been deployed to quell cattle theft and tension along the Marakwet- Pokot border. Residents have deserted their homes in three locations and more than 15 schools remained closed yesterday. Children and their parents fled to Tapach and Sondany. The schools include Kamelei, Pstono, Traraka and Kapsen Primary School and Kamelei Secondary School. “We’e living like animals in snake-infested caves to avoid bandits,” resident Janet Kikech said. North Rift Economic Bloc chairman Governor Jackson Mandago said banditry is ruining the economic potential of the region. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said he and his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo, are working with other counties to end banditry. 150,000 in desperation “We have visited the region. We urge our communities to maintain calm and stop retaliatory attacks to avoid escalating conflict in Kerio Valley,” Tolgos told the Star in Eldoret on Sunday. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen on Sunday told the Star more than 150,000 people are in dire straits due to banditry, yet there’s potential to create wealth. The Kenya Red Cross Society said on Sunday more than 250 houses were torched in Kamelei and Kapsen. Four people were injured, including a teacher who was shot in the leg. He is admitted to Kapenguria County Hospital. Assistant chief Benjamin Kelan said last week youths raided Marakwet and stole 48 cows. The animals were not recovered. In a retaliatory raid, houses were torched in a neighbouring community. The region’s county assemblies in will set aside Sh200 million each for peace initiatives — improving livelihoods so people don’t rely solely on animals. Merino sheep farmers along the escarpments are selling their animals at throwaway prices. Elgeyo Marakwet police commander Tom Odera said they were working with their counterparts from Pokot on joint security plans.