Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has defended Kitui Governor Charity Kaluki Ngilu against incitement allegations. Ngilu is accused of asking locals to 'deal with pastoralists and charcoal dealers' who have invaded the county. Her lawyers say she is an environmental champion Addressing the media at the NCIC offices on Monday, Kalonzo said the complaints came from Juja residents instead of the afflicted communities. Kiambu boss Ferdinand Waititu criticised Ngilu over the matter saying she should not incite the public to take the law into their own hands. Waititu, who led protests outside his county last week in a demand for Ngilu's arrest, noted nobody should order the destruction of people's property. Related: Youths block Waiyaki Way, deflate vehicles in anti-Ngilu protests Also read: Ngilu should be arrested for inciting people to attack, raze charcoal truck "People must be held responsible. Right now the entire Kamba region is dry due to charcoal burning. If this is not controlled Kenya will be declared a desert.."Kalonzo said. Kalonzo said Ngilu should not be prosecuted for making sure that she rids poverty out of the county. "This is the issue. Don't blame the one fighting for the well-being of the residents," Kalonzo said. He said Kenya should deal with conserving water resources  and not prosecuting people trying to defend it "What happens if there is no rain? Is the Jubilee government ready to feed the citizens of this country? I magine myself that the news war will be around water resources.. so this are the issues we must deal with.. " "We think that the NCIC should not be misused." Ngilu appeared before the Francis Ole Kaparo led team accompanied by Kalonzo and his lawyers. Last week, she obtained court orders blocking police from arresting her for incitement. She denied allegations she was targeting dealers from one community in the crackdown on charcoal trade. The NCIC had summoned the Governor to defend herself on the claims. Read: Kaparo summons Ngilu after charcoal utterances Read: Ngilu obtains court order stopping her arrest for incitement Click here for the latest political news      