The number of MPs is likely to shoot up, further soaring the country's wage bill if a proposed constitutional amendment sails through. A new bill sponsored by Majority Leader Aden Duale, ostensibly to cure the deficiency, proposes to give special seats to women to top-up their number in the bicameral Parliament. “The Bill seeks to give effect to the two-thirds gender principle through the creation of special seats,” it reads. “That will ensure that the gender principle is realised in Parliament over a period of twenty years from the next general election,” the Bill states. Read : Audit calls for reduction of MPs, MCAs Duale’s bill comes simultaneously as a section of Kenyans concerned by over-representation is launching a parallel push for a referendum to slash by more than half the number of MPs. The referendum quest is led by Thirdway Alliance presidential candidate Ekuru Aukot, who has last week took the first step of issuing a notice to the IEBC. If enacted into law, the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2018, will also limit nomination of an individual to Parliament or the county assemblies to a maximum of two terms. According to the bill, this is to ensure that empowerment through nomination by political parties is spread to as many people as possible. The number of special seats, the bill states, will be determined after the General Election and shall be shared out depending on the strength of political parties in Parliament. An attempt to pass a similar motion in the last Parliament months before the election flopped, when the male members rejected the freebie to women. According to the Constitution, not more than two-thirds of the members of elective public bodies shall be of the same gender. However, the current Parliament has fallen short of the two-thirds gender rule and it is not clear how it will wiggle itself out of the current constitutional crisis until 2022. In the National Assembly, for example, there are a total of 76 women – 23 who are elected, 47 woman representatives and six nominated. This means that it falls short by 41 women to make 117, or one-third, of the 349 MPs. In the Senate there are 21 women – three elected members and 19 nominated – bringing the shortfall to 12. This means that if the top-up was to be done in the current Parliament, 53 more women would be nominated to Parliament. All MPs earn a monthly salary of Sh710,000 each and are also entitled to a Sh5 million car grant, Sh5,000 committee allowance per sitting and a further Sh5,000 every time they clock into the Debating Chambers. But, despite the high costs that come with the new position, Parliament stands dissolved if it fails to comply with the constitutional provisions. Already, the Federation of Women Lawyers (Fida) is battling in court over the constitutionality of the current Parliament. However, it is unclear whether the bill will sail through the National Assembly since a constitutional amendment requires the endorsement of at least two- thirds of the MPs. This means that 233 members must endorse the amendments. In the last Parliament, male MPs tactically shot down a similar bill by ganging up to boycott the vote, despite months of lobbying for the proposal meant to comply with Article 27 of the Constitution. Some male lawmakers claimed the bill was an affront to democracy, as it would give women “free seats” and give room for political bigwigs to nominate their girlfriends. “We already have women in the House and their performance is below par. We do not have to fill the numbers in the House. Kenyans are entitled to quality representation,” protested then Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo. The Affirmative Action of allocating special seats to women, according to the bill, will elapse after 20 years from the date of the first General Election after commencement of the Act. However, after the 20 years, Parliament can extend the period for one further fixed period not exceeding 10 years. But the bill is likely to encounter stiff opposition from sections of the public that argue there are already too many representatives at both national and county levels. The direction should be towards reduction, not increase, quality, not quantity, while retaining the gender equality principle. Aukot last week wrote to the IEBC requesting a referendum, which will to seek to reconstruct the Senate and National Assembly voting process by doing away with all constituencies as currently set. Should the voters side with him, each county will double as one constituency and will vote in two MPs and two senators, with each of the posts having one male and one female candidate. He also wants the number of nominated MPs cut down to six individuals to represent minorities. Also read: FIDA wants court to block cabinet vetting over gender rule The move would see the National Assembly have 100 MPs and the Senate get 94 members. Currently, the National Assembly has 349 members, 290 from the constituencies, 47 woman representatives and 12 nominated representatives to represent minorities. “You will have addressed the question of over- representation, you will have brought down the wage bill and you will address the question of equality and discrimination of women. In terms of cost, it costs us Sh32 billion per year to run Parliament. We will reduce it to Sh5 billion,” Aukot says. He holds that the reduction will also allow meaningful, organised and constructive debate in the two Houses, away from party politics. But Aukot's proposal has elicited mixed feelings within civil society. Activist Okiya Omtatah has faulted Aukot's push for a referendum, arguing that the numbers in the two Houses are not the problem. Omtatah argues that Aukot, having been part of the Commission of Experts that drafted the current Constitution, is responsible for the mess of unaccountable leadership. He says that what is required is strengthening Chapter Six, to ensure the integrity of individuals occupying public office. “Whether there are two representatives or thousands, they must be held accountable. The only amendment that will save Kenya is on Chapter Six of the Constitution, to give it teeth. They [Commission of Experts on the 2010 Constitution] set up an establishment which allows questionable individuals to run for office,” Omtatah said. Aukot says after cutting down the representatives, only individuals with stellar integrity records and at least a university degree should be allowed to vie for either MP or senator. He adds that the new setup will force leaders at the county level to up their standards. Marylin Kamuru, a lawyer and researcher on women's rights, says that Aukot's proposed referendum has scored on the issue of gender equality, but may be insufficient as a solution to the other areas Aukot is targetting — the wage bill and devolution. “It is a great start and welcome. With the wage bill, we need to stop the leakage at the national and county governments. Stop appointments like the CAS. The Executive should lead and the rest will follow,” Kamuru says. Click here for the latest political news