Farmers whose land has been acquired for the construction of the Sh21 billion wind power plant at Baharini area in Mpeketoni have voiced their concern and disappointment over delayed compensation. They were to be paid before the project was implemented. The more than 600 land owners said they have waited for the past two years for the compensation but has not been forthcoming since the investor has continued "to take them in circles". The land owners had to move out of their lands once they were told that they had been earmarked for the project and were depending on the compensation money to help them acquire alternative settlements. Speaking on Tuesday, Linus Gachoki, their spokesperson, said its unfair that investor insists they will only be compensated upon the implementation of the project. A total of 3,206 acres have been acquired for the project, which is expected to produce 90 megawatts of electricity upon completion. The project is being undertaken by the Baharini Wind Power Project, a consortium of a Belgian and Kenyan firm Kenwind Holdings Limited Company. The wind power project plan includes 38 turbines with a 90MW capacity to be constructed on the acquired, which is located 20km from the Lapsset Corridor project at Kililana. The land owners said inasmuch as they had voluntarily given out their land for the project, they will not hesitate to ask the investor to give it back if they fail to compensate them by June this year. “Many of us have been renting houses.We gave out our lands voluntarily but it seems we will have to sweat before anyone pays a dime for the compensation. We don’t have time or strength for that. We have waited for over two years and we can't do that anymore.They can as well give us back our land so we can go on with our lives. We need the compensation so we can buy alternative lands and settle,”said Gichohi. The investing company had also promised to set up a Sh40 million trust fund in support of the needy and less fortunate in the county. However, but the land owners said they are now convinced that was just a bait to have them give out their land. Samuel Kamande, one of the affected land owners, said it was surprising the compensation was taking forever yet all procedures and logistics including the land review and assessment had already been undertaken and approved.   