January 30 will remain etched in the memory of Kenyans for many decades. Raila Odinga was sworn in as the People’s President. Yet, what captured the attention of many Kenyans was not the oath Raila took but the absence of the other NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, and Moses Wetang’ula. Even as millions of NASA supporters celebrated Raila’s swearing-in, an air of gloom hung over Uhuru Park and the rest of the country after it became apparent the three would not show up. The failure by Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang’ula to show up was taken as a great act of betrayal by NASA supporters, especially those from ODM. Soon thereafter, social media was awash with comments bashing the three principals as men who had let down Raila and NASA supporters when they were needed most. However, it was Kalonzo who received most barbs, with most of the critics having a field day reviving the “watermelon” tag against him. Understandably, NASA supporters were justified to express anger and frustration against the three. Granted, their absence was a huge blow to the optimism of NASA supporters, who hoped the swearing-in would trigger a huge momentum for Kenya’s Third Liberation. In the midst of all the vilification, however, it is clear that many failed to grasp the gist of a statement issued by Raila at Uhuru Park concerning the absence of Kalonzo, and that appears to have been lost in the melee of the moment. Raila said: “Kalonzo is not here with us. But he is together with us in this. He will be sworn in later. You will hear more from us.” Raila was telling the crowd he was “in the know” about the state of affairs concerning the missing Wiper leader, and they should not worry as everything was in control. Later, at a press conference at Okoa Kenya offices on Thursday, NASA leadership said the decision to keep Kalonzo from taking the oath was deliberate. Kalonzo’s social media tormentors forgot that, earlier on, Raila had himself cancelled the oath ceremony not once, but twice, without incurring as much wrath as the Wiper leader! What struck staunch Kalonzo supporters most, however, were statements issued by some ODM leaders that appeared to imply that the relationship between ODM and Wiper was over. Suba North MP Millie Mabona tweeted: “I have exhaled. 2022=No obligations. No “kurudisha mkono” (returning a hand/repaying a political debt)” This was interpreted by Kalonzo supporters as a threat that she and her (Luo) community would not consider extending to Kalonzo the political support the Kamba community has extended to Raila. What the likes of Mabona should know is that, without Kalonzo, Cord (and now NASA) would have existed as purely a Western Kenya affair at best, and a Luo conglomeration at worst, with a smattering of leaders from other ethnic groups who really hold no significant political clout (apart from Musalia, Wetang’ula, and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho). Kalonzo makes NASA a truly national outfit. For that reason alone, he deserves maximum respect from Coalition partners and supporters. If anyone outside Ukambani doubted Kalonzo’s political influence, one should only look at the political scenario in 2007, when Raila decided to have Charity Ngilu as his point-person in Ukambani, and juxtapose that with the scenarios in 2013 and 2017 when Kalonzo took charge for Raila. Right now, Raila almost a fanatical support from Ukambani is courtesy of Kalonzo. Take Kalonzo out of the equation, and Raila’s support from Lower Eastern goes up in smoke! If Raila and ODM do not support Kalonzo for President in 2022, how different will they be from Mwai Kibaki, who many believe proved untrustworthy to those who had supported him earlier (including Raila himself, and later, Kalonzo)? Will Raila’s voter base ever again complain about how their man was betrayed by Kibaki after the former’s “Kibaki Tosha” declaration, while, at the same time, extending the same betrayal to Kalonzo who has faithfully stuck with Raila? I think Raila would have shown a mark of great statesmanship if he repaid the good deeds done by Kalonzo and his support base in the next General Election. This way, no one will ever accuse him (Raila) of “double standards” and being “just another ordinary politician” who cannot be trusted to repay one good turn. And the ODM leader and his supporters would never, ever, be justified to cite Kibaki betrayal if they extend the same unsavoury treatment to Kalonzo! Finally, ODM and its leadership must find ways of taming their garrulous social media soldiers. With friends like them, ODM does not need any enemies.