Has NASA leader Raila Odinga’s warning on a disastrous impact of the Northern Collector Tunnel project by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration been vindicated? A section of Murang’a residents are now facing acute drought and shortage of water, which has become an extremely rare commodity. Raila argued that in five years of the multi-billion-shillings project’s implementation, the Murang’a, Garissa, Ukambani and Tana River Delta regions would be turned into deserts. Murang’a residents, through their leaders, are now appealing to the Head of State to intervene and provide water to them, threatening to block the commissioning of the tunnel. Was the Opposition leader right? ***** A senior official in the ministry of Water has gone underground after EACC investigators started to frequent the ministry's headquarters in recent weeks. Word has it that the investigators are closing in on an irregular tender worth $300 million in the Ministry. The man is said to have designed a tender for the construction of a dam to favour a Chinese company known for shoddy work while locking out other companies from the lucrative deal that involves construction of a dam somewhere in a county in Eastern Kenya. Attention now shifts to new Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui to see if he can arrest the runaway corruption cartels at Maji House, who are believed to be in bed with one of the Water boards in question. ***** That NASA declined to nominate individuals to sit in the National Assembly's Appointment Committee that vet the Cabinet Secretaries is no secret. But it seems the Opposition MPs are unaware of what awaits them. On Thursday last week, when the MPs were debating the report by the committee chaired by Speaker Justin Muturi, some would urge the newly sworn in CSs not to give audience to the Opposition legislators, including those seeking business opportunities, since they did not participate in the vetting process and they do not recognise the Jubilee Government. ***** Did Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki fly in a chopper to help in building two mud-walled classrooms in Kamutuandu Primary School, Tharaka Nithi County? Well, the pictures of the lawmaker building the classroom trended on social media over the weekend, with many people questioning the reasoning behind landing in a chopper to do mud-walled classrooms in this era and age. The Senator also recently offered a top KCSE student in his constituency a chopper ride, which a number of his followers argue should have been converted to offer scholarships to the numerous needy cases in his area.