Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has convened a make-or-break meeting with party delegates next month to review its relationship with the other NASA affiliates. The meeting comes after Kalonzo joined NASA leader Raila Odinga at the ODM Governing Council on Friday, where the principals put on a show of solidarity. At the meeting at Orange House, Kalonzo declared that NASA was intact but lamented the attacks on him and his party’s position over Raila’s swearing-in event on January 30. Read: Wiper plans 'make-or-break' meeting as Kalonzo restrategises The summit on March 16 in Nairobi’s Komarock will audit the party’s position in NASA and consider the future after the disputed 2017 polls. Sources say the meeting is inspired by the increasing tension among the affiliates and the perception that the NASA coalition agreement has been served out. Leaders who spoke to the Star said Wiper is free to dialogue with other political players, among them Jubilee. “It is sad that when ODM engages Jubilee it is called dialogue and when Wiper does, they call us traitors,” said a top Wiper official. Wiper officials say they expect 10,000 delegates to attend. On Friday, Kalonzo held a meeting with leaders from Kitui County at his Yatta farm. They included the clergy, opinion and elected leaders from the three counties of Machakos, Makueni and Kitui. “Kalonzo has been consulting widely over the issue which has been fueled by the coalition partner resulting in name calling and insults,” said a statement from Wiper late Saturday. Read: Wiper in trouble as aspirants accuse Kalonzo of favouritism Wiper will also hold meetings in two key Ukambani counties—Kitui and Makueni—ahead of the summit to be hosted by former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama. “The meeting of opinion leaders from Ukambani shall take a position on our future,” said Kathiani MP Robert Mbui. The National Assembly deputy Minority leader said the party is planning another series of activities to activate the grassroots as part of Wiper’s revamping strategy. “We have been talking to grassroots leaders and the clergy as part of our plans to consolidate Ukambani,” he said. The Star has established that the grassroots tour after the summit will aim to solidify the region solidly behind the party. Observers say the meeting will set the stage for a divorce from NASA, following persistent disagreement.  Click here for the latest political news