The 2010 Constitution ushered in a novel leadership and governance model admired by many globally, and widely acclaimed as a panacea for the challenges of national development. The struggle for devolution is as old as the struggle for Independence and upon attainment of Uhuru, the Constitution negotiated at the Lancaster House Conference enshrined the sharing of power between the central government and regional authorities. This was to ensure control and distribution of resources was not centralised and susceptible to abuse by the wielders of state power. However, as the country progressed after Independence and pursued a nationalist agenda, the gains made in the Independence Constitution were systematically eroded such that by 1969, Kenya was effectively a one-party state, with a mixed presidential and parliamentary system. The mix was heavily tilted in favour of the presidency, which was vested with both the state and Executive functions, as well as firmly entrenched in the Legislature. The President as head of state appointed members of the Judiciary, while as head of government, he appointed the Cabinet from Parliament. MPs became ministers of their colleague, the President, who also represented a constituency in the National Assembly. It is this state of constitutional confusion that led to demands and agitation for a comprehensive law review, culminating in the promulgation of a new Constitution In August 2010. The objective of devolution was to ensure the citizens were protected from the excesses of the state by dispersing political power to various institutions. It was envisaged these institutions would provide checks and balances for and against each other, and ensure every citizen enjoyed life with full liberties and in dignity. Devolution established the counties that became the vanguards of equitable distribution of national resources to assure of balanced national development. Kenyans had established a system of governance through devolution that no longer required subservience to the powers-that-be to access the bounties of liberation. Frameworks were entrenched in the Constitution to ensure every citizen, irrespective of their geographical location and cultural heritage, was not discriminated against or favoured unduly in the allocation of resources. These frameworks made provisions for the transfer and utilization of resources for development at the points where citizens would much more easily access and enjoy basic social services. The state of affairs was a boon to the citizens and the first election under the new Constitution was greeted with ecstasy and great expectations. There was great excitement as Kenyans, in their droves, trooped to polling stations on March 4, 2013 to vote for their preferred candidates for the various county positions as well as the national ones. The cure for centralisation of governance, which had been variously and flagrantly abused, had arrived. However, as the dust begun to settle on the implementation of devolution, it soon dawned on Kenyans that something was amiss. Governors took an eternity to settle down to work and, even when they seemed to have settled, nothing tangible was forthcoming in terms of development. There were incessant squabbles with the national government on mundane issues such as furniture, office space and protocol. Immediately lost in this tug of war was the original objective of devolution — to put the citizen at the centre of governance. As the county chiefs were finding their footing in this new dispensation, the national government appeared undecided on how much to support devolution in spirit and practice. While the Constitution had required the national government review and align the provincial administration to the spirit of devolution, there was less enthusiasm in implementation. The country ended up with a more reinvigorated provincial administration outfit at the county level, which countermanded the county governments at will, using the security machine at their disposal. The citizens were left more bewildered. It is now clear that devolution started with teething challenges that should have been addressed at the early stages to enable the citizens to reap maximum benefits as reward for their gallant struggles against state oppression. However, it appears there was no goodwill from the national government, which was to midwife the process, and the leadership of the founding governors. While it may be easy to excuse the national government for negligence and acts of omission, it is catastrophic to realise the counties started off with leaders who had bigger challenges than exhibited. As Kenyans implemented the new Constitution, it soon emerged there were not so many competent people who would readily assume the many political leadership positions that had been established. Many of the political leaders that were available at that time were schooled in the old order and did not seem to understand the requirements of devolution and thus preferred the positions in the old order. This created an unprecedented shortage of persons who would offer themselves for election to the county positions. Lack of clear understanding of the roles and positions of county officers also resulted in misunderstanding of positions. For example, many people misunderstood the position and role of MCA to be the same as that of ward councillor in the previous dispensation. Power, like nature, abhors a vacuum! The lack of adequate competent political leaders with vision, passion and commitment for devolution soon attracted layabouts, most of whom had retreated into retirement. Some were basically jobless and got involved for the heck of it, while a few were unscrupulous former central government functionaries who were attracted by opportunities for personal aggrandizement. The common denominator amongst the majority of this first county cohort of leaders was their lack of understanding and commitment to the ideals of devolution. The layabouts and retirees soon found convenience in establishing working alliances and networks with the former central government functionaries to feather their nests. Reports of massive expenditure for official entertainment and overseas travel together with office refurbishment and furnishing were widespread. Trips for benchmarking became the order of the day and tenderpreneurship was officially devolved. While the counties inherited bloated county council staff, no attempts were made to rationalise the staffing levels and needs of the devolved units. Instead, brazen efforts were made to employ cronies and reward supporters, establishing nepotism as the unspoken preferred process of recruitment. Corruption that was the bane of underdevelopment and the cancer that had claimed many high-profile careers took root. Locals could not afford the bribes that were regularly demanded by county officials in exchange for public service slots. Most of the leading county officials were more experienced in the centralised system, where citizen participation was more of a privilege than a right. Consequently, the counties ended up with deadwood civil servants, who demonstrated gross ineptitude and lack of skills necessary for modern management. In the end, basic social services that were devolved collapsed. Where they had collapsed under the national government such as agriculture, the new governors did not initiate them. Lack of health services was the most visible exhibition of the sorry state of affairs. Years on, medics were on strike. The hospitals were generally in a state of disrepair and dilapidated, with no stocks of medical supplies. Patients were dying at the casualty desks, and those admitted died more of hunger on their beds. I once visited a patient at a county referral hospital where patients were washing their bedding in parasite and pest-infested wards. The sight was not only painful but also pitiful! The social service infrastructure had collapsed under the weight of county government incompetence and corruption. In the circumstances, citizens began to retreat to their local cocoons and wondered what had dispersed their hopes and future in devolution to the four winds. Kenyans started to question whether it was wise in the first instance to have devolution. It was already becoming more of a burden to the ordinary person through increased taxation than it was a solution to the development agenda. Instead of addressing the plight of underdevelopment of their respective communities, the counties concentrated on pampering the leaders. The governors later found a convergence of interests with the county national government officials and now operated and behaved in the mold of the departing provincial commissioners. They moved around in convoys consistent with a regional president and seldom cared about the needs of the common mwananchi. The MCAs also forgot their oversight role and instead of holding the county executive to account connived to extort unofficial allowances from the government through blackmail. They formed partnerships with local business cartels to flagrantly fleece the county coffers dry in total disregard of the deplorable state of their respective wards. The underperformance of the counties with attendant runaway corruption has grossly undermined devolution in its spirit and implementation. Citizens are losing faith in it and the events of recent times of widespread bitterness with the national government are a clear demonstration that hopelessness is creeping back to the population.  INVITATION TO TREAT The state of affairs is fertile ground for reactionary forces determined to frustrate devolution. The national government has been accused of sabotaging devolution by not releasing sufficient funds for the devolved functions such as health. This was at the centre of the tussle for the doctors’ salary and allowance demands as well as the payment for the costs of the contracted medical equipment negotiated by the national government. Where budgetary allocations have been approved by Parliament, delays in remittance are the order of the day, paralyzing operations. It is, therefore, not farfetched to argue the national government would latch onto any legitimate opportunity to initiate a process of abolishing devolution. The predatory nature of the central government is such that it takes advantage of any widespread disaffection with the counties to encouragethe collapse of devolution. The inability of the governors to step in and plug the gaps of development associated with the national centralised government has led to general lethargy among the citizens. This is conducive environment for anti-devolution forces so much so that if a referendum would be proposed to abolish the systems, chances of it succeeding are high. Kenyans hope the current crop of governors will turn the clock back so that citizens can renew their faith in this innovative system of governance and reap the benefits of their struggle for emancipation.