Deputy President William Ruto has said he is focussed on the 2022 presidential race and his opponents should stop using lies and propaganda to taint Jubilee and the government. Ruto dismissed accusations Jubilee is acting contrary to the Constitution, adding the government will implement the pledges made during the election. He told NASA to stop causing hatred and animosity “in the hopes of capitalising on sympathy in 2022”. More on this : Respect the rule of law, DP Ruto tells politicians Ruto spoke yesterday during an interdenominational service in Turbo, Uasin Gishu county. “We defeated them twice last year and let them prepare for a rematch with me in 2022,” Ruto said. He said ha and President Uhuru Kenyatta respect the rule of law and the Constitution “unlike leaders in the opposition”. “We have faced many hurdles as a government and Jubilee, and if we were not respecting the rule of law, this country would be in total chaos,” Ruto said. He said Jubilee accepted the Supreme Court decision to nullify Uhuru’s win in the August 8 election and hit the ground running seeking votes for the October 26 polls. ‘hauled’ to the hague “We won again and when they went back to court, we followed the due process and were declared wnners,” Ruto said. He also made reference to the ICC cases, saying he and Uhuru followed the law. “Remember how we were hauled to the Hague over claims of crimes against humanity. We attended court as law-abiding citizens and luckily the cases collapsed due to lack of evidence,” Ruto said. He said the country faces many challenges and urged Kenyans to unite and engage in development instead of politicking. Ruto said the government is focussed on implementing all projects it pledged to do, key among them electrification, infrastructure, delivery of quality healthcare services and water. “The election is over and it is time we focus on development and unite all Kenyans irrespective of our political and religion affiliations. This will enable us achieve development faster,” Ruto said. NASA, he said, must follow the rule of law and the Constitution and stop engaging in sideshows aimed at creating instability. “They should help address issues affecting Kenyans and wait for the next election in 2022. We are ready for them again,” Ruto said. The 2022 succession politics was the central topic during the prayer service attended by 15 MPs, mostly from Western and Rift Valley. Click here for the latest political news