Two Jubilee MCAs will be de-whipped from their committees over claims of working with EALA MP Simon Mbugua to jeopardise Governor Mike Sonko. Maringo Hamza ward MCA Mark Ndung’u and Charles Thuo of Dandora III will cease to be chairmen of the Transport and Trade committees, respectively. Efforts to reach Mbugua on Friday to comment on the claims did not bear fruit. The legislator did not answer his phone. Jubilee MCAs led by Majority leader Abdi Guyo unanimously resolved to de-whip them for misconduct. They are accused by their colleagues of working with the opposition to undermine the party leadership. denied wrongdoing The MCAs convened a meeting on Thursday evening after a heated debate in the house to discuss threats against Guyo, Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok and Royasambu’s Charles Warutere by an unknown person. “As a party, we have decided to discharge remove them from their positions ,” Guyo said. But the two denied any wrongdoing and accused the county Jubilee leadership of mistreating them. “These people have let us down. We cannot continue like this.We will not allow them to rule us the way they want,” Ndung’u said. Once they are kicked out, the chairmen will miss lucrative committee allowances and other privileges that come with the slots. Ejected pilot Ndung’u and Thuo are among the 15 MCAs who caused drama at JKIA last month. They ejected a pilot from a plane that was just about to take off for refusing to wait for their colleague who arrived late for the flight. Guyo dismissed claims of division among Jubilee MCAs. He accused Mbugua of sabotaging operations at City Hall. He also accused Mbugua of intimidating and issuing orders to senior officers at City Hall for personal gain. Guyo said Jubilee MCAs have no qualms about Mbugua’s friendship with Sonko, but it should not be used to interfere with Cit Hall affairs. “Jubilee gave you [Mbugua] the mandate to go and represent Kenya at the EALA. We do not expect you to use your office to divide us,” Guyo said. On Tuesday, the MCAs adjourned to discuss the conduct of Mbugua and his role at City Hall. But on Wednesday, Sonko dismissed claims that he has given Mbugua a discreet role at City Hall.