“Arrrrrggggghhhhh,” I scream again, this time out loud.
Crap. I couldn’t keep that muffled. That was a horrible one. I’m shaking. Deep
breaths. That’s better. Sorry, what was I saying before? Oh yes, willpower. I explained how a day that started and
continued with you depleting your willpower reserves will most likely end with
you giving in to some sort of temptation or the other. If, for example, contrary
to what I had said earlier, you woke up energised and ready to face the day. If
you had happily gone for your jog and had coffee at home, thereby forgoing
resisting temptation in the coffee shop, where all sorts of delicacies are laid
out. If you had found little or no traffic on the way to work so you were not
tempted to overlap. If it wasn’t anyone’s birthday so there was no tempting
cake to say no to. If lunch was at a salad bar with a like-minded health
conscious friend and not in the office cafeteria, where they lay out all the
fattening, delicious-looking food in the buffet. If that was how your day played out and by evening
someone offered you a drink, you’d easily say no. The reason is that this is
the first time, throughout the day, that your willpower has come into play. On
the way home, they’ll be lots of traffic but you will not even be tempted to
overlap. Again, your reserves are still high. You may drive past a fast food
joint and not give it a second glance. You use the same stock of willpower for
everything you do. Being nice to someone you can’t stand. Playing hard to get
when you really like someone. Exercising when you don’t want to. So if your day
didn’t require you to dive into the willpower stockpile, you can accomplish
ANYTHING. This, in a nutshell, was me today. I didn’t have an
occasion to deny myself anything. My blackmailing day was a roaring success!
Granted, there was a little stress when the prude called me out and sent his
wife to confront me. Stress is very dangerous; it depletes willpower. That’s
why people are more likely to drink themselves into a stupor, when they have
money or relationship problems. But I didn’t let the stress sit with me for long.
I found a quick solution and turned this thing on its head. I convinced the
prude’s wife to pay me the money in return for an abortion that very day. Which
of course is why I’m in so much pain right now. I lied to the doctor how far
along I was. Either way, I have all the willpower reserves I need to see me
through tonight. I’m going to use every morsel of it. No caving in. No
hospitals. I’ll handle the pain and see it through. The prude’s wife paid up. I
have the money in my account. What’s a night of pain compared to the two
million I got because of it? “Arrrrrggggghhhhh!!!!!!” I scream. I can tell you one thing. After tonight, I’m going on a
shopping spree and a holiday to somewhere gorgeous. No way in hell I’m denying
myself anything, for a very long time, after this much pain.