Hopes of being included in President Uhuru
Kenyatta’s second and final Cabinet went up in smoke. Has Kanu been skinned
inside out? The exclusion is not by accident but by design.
It was informed by nothing else more than the 2022 political succession. Looking
at the high stakes ahead of Uhuru’s final term, it is not possible to have Kanu
allies in government, lest it disorients Deputy President William Ruto’s
ambitions to succeed his boss. Giving Kanu slots in the Cabinet would have
been tantamount to giving your enemy ammunition to annihilate you politically. Second, if Kanu had been considered for
Cabinet posts, the decision would have reignited political supremacy battles between
the DP and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. The two leaders have been on each
other’s jugular for some time now.  Their
bone of contention is the 2022 presidency. The DP rightfully feels he has a better
chance of vying for the presidency after Uhuru retirement in 2022. However, Gideon
wants to hear none of that because he believes he, too, has what it takes to stand
for the presidency.  But does he? I think
not. He has zilch chances.  Gideon’s
influence is limited to his native Baringo county, and this cannot guarantee
him a win. DP Ruto’s influence, on the other hand, has permeated the South Rift,
especially after the shocking defeat of former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, who
had vowed to frustrate Jubilee’s win in last year’s cut throat election. Rutto has gone AWOL since being ejected
from the helm of Bomet leadership by the DP’s political ally Governor Joyce
Laboso.  No one is privy to Rutto’s
thoughts regarding 2022 but it is it is too early to write him off.  The CCM boss joined Jubilee in the heat of
the repeat election campaigns last year after a short stint as a NASA
principal. Kanu’s chairman Gideon agreed to support
Uhuru’s second term bid last year hoping to take over in the next general
election. But the Baringo Senator did not volunteer to donate his support for
his childhood friend:  It took months of
cajoling and strings of pleading from Uhuru. At one point, the President’s mother
visited former President Daniel a Moi at his Kabarak home in Nakuru to ask him
to convince his last born son to support her son’s second stab at the
presidency. This
was after the senator took long in making up his mind about the endorsement.
Gideon was torn between joining forces with Rutto and supporting Jubilee.  Rutto’s party was quickly sweeping through
the South Rift like wild fire — Kanu wanted to ride on its popularity. That was not the only reason Gideon was
thinking of teaming up with Rutto who had already NASA. The duo would have
easily supported Uhuru’s bid but the thought of their archrival Deputy
President benefiting from their efforts was gut-churning. That was until Uhuru and his family reached
out to the Baringo senator through his father. With the older Moi still wielding substantive
influence of his son and Kanu, which he led for 24 years without a break, there
was bound to be a shift in the party’s thinking.  It was only a matter of time before Gideon
and Kanu’s secretary general Nick Salat led the party’s elated delegates to a
meeting at Kasarani Sports Grounds, where they announced their decision to back
Jubilee as the President stood next to them singing along, “Ehee Kanu! Kanu
yajenga nchi…” A political union was in the cards with Kanu eyeing the benefits
that would accompany it. Confirmed reports then alluded to a pact
between Jubilee and Kanu, in which the latter would be included in the Cabinet.
Salat was one of the potential top Kanu officials to be tapped for a Cabinet
Secretary position. But when the Cabinet was named, there was
not a single Kanu member in it. Kanu accused Uhuru of disrespecting Mzee
Moi by not fulfilling his promise to his son. But it is the DP — not the President — who
had more say in the appointments.  So,
Gideon should redirect his blame elsewhere.  