President Uhuru Kenyatta was not 'revisiting' the Judiciary with the petition for Chief Justice David Maraga and several others to leave the JSC. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said this on Tuesday noting 'revisiting' will concern serious issues. "This is not the revisit.," he said at Parliament buildings on Tuesday and asked Kenyans to do their research before petitioning Parliament. "If you want to deal with the CJ, don't use Parliament ... use other routes," he said, adding they will not allow any person who wants to deal with Legislature to use Parliament. But he noted that he three arms of government must respect each other. "We respect the office of the CJ and the Judiciary respect the Executive," he said. After the Supreme Court annulled his election on September 1, Uhuru referred to the judges as wakora crooks) and promised "to revisit" the decision. On Monday, a lawyer petitioned the National Assembly to initiate the removal of Maraga, Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu, and five JSC members for gross misconduct. The others are Justice Mohammed Warsame, Aggrey Muchelule, Tom Ojienda, Emily Ominde, and Mercy Deche But speaker Justin Muturi dismissed the petition  saying it was "misplaced, a long shot, pedestrian and a fishing expedition". More on this: Muturi dismisses petition against Maraga, Mwilu as fishing expedition MPs HAPPY WITH MUTURI Several MPs praised the Speaker for the determination, Baringo North's William Cheptumo saying he was glad the petition was not 'a revisit' from the President. "The feeling across the country was that the popular issue of revisiting the Judiciary was what was being advanced," he said. Cheptumo asked Kenyans to realise that Parliament is a house of procedures and rules. "Kenyans continue to have faith in this house ... that this house will not entertain any petition intended to spoil other people's names," he said. "Even when we have the chance to challenge the suitability of candidates, procedures must be followed." He advised: "If you have challenges, ensure the complaint is in the form of an affidavit and an oath so that we take you seriously." Suna East MP Junet Mohamed also thanked the Speaker for the "good communication" on the petition. "Your ruling is precedence-setting ... a ruling that will help this country for many years to come," Mohamed said. He added Parliament has the obligation of coming up with mechanisms to hold the Judiciary to account. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said Muturi gave Kenyans a gift. "I was so worried when I saw this ... I thought Jubilee was 'revisiting' but Duale has confirmed [that this was not the case]. I am so happy, Mr Speaker," he said. But he noted mechanisms must be put in place so such matters do not reach Parliament. More on this:Lawyer petitions MPs to remove Maraga, Mwilu from JSC Click here for the latest political news