There was once a little kid whose growing horns made him think he was a grown-up billy goat. So one evening, as the rest left the pasture and his mother called, he paid no heed and continued nibbling the grass. A little later when he lifted his head, the flock was gone. The kid shivered as he thought of the terrible wolf and started wildly bleating for his mother. But not halfway, near a clump of trees, there was the wolf! “Please, Mr Wolf,” he begged, “I know you are going to eat me. But first please pipe me a tune, for I want to dance.” The wolf liked the idea of a little music before eating, so he struck up a merry tune and the kid danced. As the flock was moving slowly homeward, the shepherd dogs pricked up their ears. They recognised the song the wolf sings before a feast, and in a moment they were racing back to the pasture. The wolf’s song ended suddenly, and he ran away with the dogs hot on his heels. This story teaches us that we should not let anything, however small, distract us from our goal. This is where we are today as a country, where we have a clear goal called the ‘Big Four’ and some people working hard to distract us. President Uhuru Kenyatta has made it clear that the next five years will be dedicated to the Big Four economic plan, whose pillars are manufacturing, food security, universal healthcare and housing. If we are able to focus on and perfect these sectors, our economy will grow exponentially to the benefit of all Kenyans. What we need to focus on is putting food on the table and money in the pocket of all Kenyans. We must collectively think of ways to get our economy back on track, encourage politics of development and transform the lives of each Kenyan. The Big Four is a transformative plan that will enable us to move in the right direction where we will experience economic transformation for all. In fact, looking at the plan one has every reason to hope for a better future for this country. I will give a few examples. In Turkana, residents are set to gain from investment in fisheries and aquaculture, which aims to promote efficient use and value-addition of resources through modernising fisheries infrastructure. Focus on manufacturing could not have come at a better time as Laikipia is already leading the way with the establishment of a fertiliser manufacturing plant that will in turn reduce production costs for farmers. Growing of maize, cowpeas, green grams and cassava, which do well in Kilifi, will have increased yields and profits that will go a long way in making the county, and in deed the entire Coastal region, food secure, particularly in times of drought. With its good amount of riparian zones and hilltops, Nyamira has the potential to develop bamboo-based industries. Completion of the liquid nitrogen factory in Uasin Gishu will create more jobs. Food security is also in the works in the county, with planned irrigation schemes to enable the farmers to produce more. In Taita Taveta, the Blue Economy Initiative, a key enabler of the Big Four, was launched last December to utilise lakes Jipe and Chala. This will help residents sustain themselves through fishing. Aside from maize, the government’s programme towards revitalising the cotton value chain could see Bungoma West and South become productive cotton-growing zones. The few examples above show that there will be direct benefits from the Big Four. We therefore have a duty to stop being distracted by petty politics, especially from the opposition, and support the government to achieve this goal.  The writer
is a political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda