About 10,000 children are out of school in Kerio Valley. Twenty schools have been shut down due to banditry attacks at the Marakwet-West Pokot border. The Kenya National Parents Association is asking the government to help re-open schools in four locations in the region. Chairman Nicholas Maiyo yesterday said most of the children fled with parents from affected areas in Pokot and Marakwet. Residents say 120 people have died and property worth Sh1 billion destroyed in a year. Many teachers have also fled. “The situation in Kerio Valley is pathetic. Children and parents, especially women, are suffering because of insecurity,” said Maiyo in Eldoret town. Eleven of the schools have been shut down in Pokot Central after children and teachers fled because of bandit attacks. West Pokot Knut executive secretary Martin Sembelo said teachers sought transfers due to the frequent attacks along the border with Elgeyo Marakwet county. “The situation is critical. There is urgent need to improve security or we will not have learning in most schools,” Sembelo said. About 30 teachers had sought transfers, citing security threats. “Most teachers no longer want to risk their lives just like the children and their parents,” Sembelo said. Primary schools affected are Chesegon, Cheptulel, Arpolo, Kokwo Meses, Anet, Tilingwo, Cheratak and Chemale. The secondary schools affected include Cheptulel Girls’ High School, Cheptulel Boys’ High School and Chesumbur Mixed Secondary. County Education director Jared Obiero said learning was not going on in many schools because of insecurity. Last week, bandits set ablaze more than 300 houses in revenge attacks. “It is difficult for schools to operate under an environment where bandits attack anywhere any time,” Obiero said. Many parents from the region have been calling for help. The government should urgently respond to them and restore order in the valley, said parents’ association chairman Maiyo. More than 300 professionals from Marakwet have also called for order.