Though all television stations are back on air, vilification of free media continues unabated on grounds it is emasculating and sabotaging the Executive through criticism and publication of stories and events that make the State uncomfortable. Associated with a small media house, I have no choice but to support the press. For if I don’t, I would be endorsing the collapse of my employer, my own unemployment and starvation of my family. I also support media because it is not made for its owner or the service of the State, but for consumers of news, education and entertainment. If consumers do not support a free press, it is they who will suffer in darkness and ignorance. Though Sauti ya Mwananchi Radio and Television was not shutdown, my duty to support media is absolute. From my days in prison, I have not forgotten the words of Pastor Martin Niemöller: First they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out— Because I was not a Socialist. Then they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out— Because I was not a Trade Unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out— Because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me. These words should have protected victims of Nazism in Europe. Nevertheless, it is not too late for these words to defend, not just the media, but also the Judiciary, Parliament and everybody else whose rights are in danger of violation. And who wants to be a parrot? In 1984, President Daniel Moi ordered that all ministers, assistant ministers and everyone else could only speak if they were parroting him as he had parroted President Jomo Kenyatta. He said people could only expect to speak freely when they came to power, meaning only those who are in power have the freedom of expression and that all without power are expected to be voiceless. By defending others, you defend yourself. When media speak for the people, they speak for thrmselves and when the people speak for media, they speak for themselves. But there is also another bigger reason why I support free media. A gagged press will take us back to the dark days of Kanu tyranny, where the press was voiceless and, through its silence, so was the nation. In 1973-74, I remember how every time my weekly article came out in the Sunday Post, I was summoned by police to explain what I meant by what I wrote. This finally led to my detention for three-and-a-half years. Ironically, I felt freer to express myself in than out of prison. As a disciple of democracy, I must defend media to protect democracy, as the latter cannot survive without the three arms of government – the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary. It cannot survive without free media. It is suicide for any country not to defend the Fourth Estate. When freedom is in danger, the people must speak out; speak for freedom, not because they hate the government or authority, but because, finally, all of us will be victims. Unfortunately, Kenyans learn nothing from history. In 1982, when Parliament legalised dictatorship by inserting Section 2A in the old Constitution, we did so despite the knowledge that by MPs doing so, the country was committing suicide, which it did for the next 10 years. We must defend our media. If we don’t and it dies, once again, we shall resort to foreign radio stations such as the BBC, VOA and DW Radio. Yet, we have the ability to manage ours most responsibly. But running a radio responsibly does not mean muzzling it. It means taking right decisions for the good of everybody. The late Waruru Kanja —ha great hero of this country — once said media responsibility does not mean silencing the press. According to him, if government stops people from talking, they will certainly fart. Ultimately, the country, the government and everybody else can only prosper from media freedom. When the great Mao Tse-tung extorted his countrymen and women to “let a thousand flowers blossom”, he was paving the way for today’s great development of China. When we seek to emulate China’s development, we must also emulate the freedom of their leadership to “let a thousand schools of thought contend.” Let freedom of the media reign.  