Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok led peace talks between the Turkana and Toposa communities from South Sudan on Friday. The talks took place in Lokichoggio, Turkana West sub-county, following worsening insecurity due to cattle rustling at Kenya's border with South Sudan. It was agreed that dialogue between the two communities will be encouraged through peace committees. The two governments and kraal leaders will also lead the recovery and return of livestock stolen along the border. Nanok further said Turkana will set up a permanent market in Nadapal to foster trade and business between the two communities. "A disarmament drive will be conducted and the governments will rid the region of illegal firearms that have fueled inter-community conflicts." Nanok noted his meeting with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Fillipo Grandi, concluded that the civil war in South Sudan has seen rebels contribute to the conflict. "I think we need to push for an end to the conflict to reduce cases of South Sudanese rebels coming to our border and the number of refugees will also be reduced,” he said. The county committed to repairing the Kapetadie water point and making it accessible to both the Toposa and Turkana. Basic amenities such as schools, health centres and livestock markets along the border will be built jointly. To discourage cattle rustling, the leaders agreed to form a technical committee to review the branding of the animals. The meeting also reinforced an agreement from a 2015 meeting that recognised the role women play in the peace process. Kapoeta state deputy governor Paul Langa commended the two governments on their diplomacy and expressed optimism that the measures will yield fruits. Deputy governor Peter Lotethiro noted the two communities share cultural and language similarities. Senator Malachy Ekal promised to push the national government for a response on the presence of South Sudan rebels at the border with Kenya. Ekal asked members of the two communities to send their children to school to lessen dependence on livestock. Click here for the latest political news