Will Bungoma Senator and NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula accept to administer Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka's oath if the plan materializes? Some agitated Western legislators and supporters have been bitter with their two brothers, political heavyweights Wetang'ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi after forsaking NASA leader Raila Odinga at the eleventh hour of the much-hyped oath-taking in their pursuit of electoral justice. The duo's absence during the swearing-in has been criticised and they have been termed betrayers and cowards. Now, some MPs from the region want Wetang'ula, a lawyer, to administer Kalonzo's oath to prove his boldness and unwavering loyalty to NASA. The pressure on Wetang'ula comes following his assurance last Friday to NASA supporters the principals are still united and that that plans are underway to swear in Kalonzo as the “People's Deputy President”. ***** One of the outgoing Cabinet Secretaries who was not retained by President Uhuru Kenyatta when he reconstituted his fresh Cabinet has started picking up phone calls from commoners. The man, according to a source, had completely refused to up pick phone calls from those he does not know. Neither would he respond to text messages sent to his phone. But a week after he was shown the door from his powerful and plum Ministry, he has become a friendly chap who now dines and wines with the locals in town restaurants. ***** Is President Uhuru Kenyatta a man under siege from his home county – Kiambu? Corridors learnt that some residents are lamenting increased unemployment among youths, poverty and poor road infrastructure. They claim the Jubilee Administration has focused more on developing the NASA counties, despite Kiambu amplifying Uhuru’s victory last year. ***** Are NASA legislators jittery with self-proclaimed National Resistance Movement leader Miguna Miguna’s rising star in Opposition politics? Corridors learnt that “the General” is causing sleepless nights to many MPs, especially in Luo Nyanza, who are not happy with how he is emerging as Raila's heir apparent in Lake City politics. Two MPs, our mole says, were overheard saying they will not visit him in the cells so that he is “tamed”. Interestingly, no Opposition MP has visited the two police stations the lawyer has been held at since his dramatic arrest on Friday.