Lecturers have written to Education CS Amina Mohammed decrying underfunding of higher education which they say has reached crisis levels. In a letter dated February 12, University Academic Staff Union Secretary General Constantine Wasonga said public universities have been receiving capitation that is not commensurate with the rising number of student enrollments over recent years. “The exponential growth in student numbers has put heavy strain on facilities and human resource in the universities. The universities have had to deal with increased demand for learning spaces as well as hire academic staff to cope with the high number of students,” Wasonga said. Treasury allocated University Education Sh83.8 billion in the 2017/18 Budget and a further Sh10.1 billion for Higher Education Loans Board (HELB). The funds were expected to cater for government sponsored students in both public and private universities. Enrolments in universities have been rising steadily over the past five years, straining facilities in both public and private universities. Statistics from the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service show that 67,790 students who sat KCSE in 2014 joined universities in 2015. This was 10,000 more than the number of students who joined universities in 2014. The 2013 enrolment was 53,010. In 2016, 88,929 students were selected to join university in 2017 but the number dropped to 70,073 this year. Wasonga said the government has not been able to provide sufficient and adequate funds to respond to the high demands promptly and effectively. He said many university managers have been forced to secure services for their institutions on credit. “Almost all the public universities have had to run budget deficits on account of debts to their suppliers and services,” Wasonga told Amina. He urged the CS to call for an urgent stakeholder forum to discuss the issue before the 2018/19 budget is prepared. “The financial situation of universities has now reached crisis level and unless it is addressed immediately, there is imminent collapse of higher education,” Wasonga warned. Further, he said universities are in arrears in meeting statutory financial obligations like submitting staff remittances for KRA, NSSF and NHIF. “More often than not, bank loans are not serviced and the Credit Reference Bureau has listed many staff as loan defaulters.” Wasonga said insufficient funding has seen pension arrears for 2010/13 and 2013/17 CBAs rise to Sh1.56 billion and Sh2 billion respectively. 