Judgment on the petition against Migori Governor Okoth Obado will be issued on February 27, with the petitioner, former Cabinet minister Ochillo Ayacko, facing costs of Sh27 million if he loses the case. High Court judge Hillary Chemitei gave the date on Tuesday during the last submissions by lawyers from Ayako’s camp, IEBC Migori returning officer Charles Mutai and Obado. Ayacko, through his lawyers Odhiambo Roche and Samuel Nyasimi, called on the petition to be upheld and residents allowed to vote afresh in a free and fair process. The lawyers said the August 8 election was not transparent, as 84 per cent of polling centres ( 697 of 826 ), were marred by irregularities. “The election was marred with credibility issues, and whatever the results, the process would’ve beem smeared, and that process should not stand,” Roche said. Ayacko’s team said all eight returning officers and their presiding officers and deputies should face criminal charges for bungling the election. Nyasimi asked the judge to be “guided by the hand of God to make a fair judgment” on the amount to be awarded to case defenders, arguing the matter is “of public interest”. But IEBC lawyers, led by Joshua Ochwa and Eva Kahiti, said the election process was free and fair, and the errors cited by Ayacko’s team were “human errors due to fatigue, but didn’t alter the overall results”. The two said they should be awarded Sh12 million as costs, as the case was complex, forcing both teams to have two lawyers, with some travelling from Nairobi and staying in Migori for days. Obado’s legal team, led by Rodgers Sagana and Evans Ondieki, said they should be awarded Sh 15 million as costs, bringing the total to Sh27 million. “We want the petition to be dismissed with costs, which will cover our instruction fee. Our client won with an excess of 89,000 votes, which is a lead that couldn’t be challenged,” Sagana said. The case brings to an end a prolonged legal tussle in which Ayacko provided 66 witness statements, with only 27 taking to the dock. Obado in his replaying affidavits issued 42 witness statements, and 21 witnesses took to the dock, while IEBC relied on nine witnesses statements from eight constituencies and one county returning officer. Speaking outside the court after the final submissions, Obado called for calm among residents. “I am confident on the work done by my legal team. I will only call on my supporters to turn up in large numbers on the judgment day for moral support,” Obado said. Ayacko was not in court during the final submissions.