Taxpayers could have lost millions of shillings in fictitious claims by police officers. Yesterday, the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet confirmed that rogue officers made irregular claims and pocketed millions of shillings in transfer allowances. Officers transferred to new workstations normally pocket allowances to enable them to settle down. However, some officers claimed the allowances yet they had not been transferred. “We found out the anomaly months ago,” Boinnet told the Star during a phone interview The anomaly is contained in a report prepared after internal investigations. Officers privy to probe said the figure could be big because the National Police Service has more than 100,000 officers that are regularly transferred. “The officers involved will be severely punished and made to pay back the money they received,” Boinnet said. He said only a small number of officers were involved in the scam. “These are just isolated cases because many of our officers are very honest people,” Boinnet said. A letter copied to police bossed at the Kilindini Port, Mutito Andei, Nairobi Terminus, Nairobi, Nakuru and the Branch Commander Phase 11 SGR said the officers collected as much as Sh501,126 in the transfer claims. Specific stations were affected. INTEGRITY The letter,dated January 9 is filed under SEC. POL/4/4/VOL 111/289 at Vigilance House. It shows that officers at the rank of Constable, Corporal, Sergeants, Inspectors and Superitendents colluded with their influential seniors at the headquarters to make the claims. “This headquarter has been carrying out investigations into fraudulent claims of transfer allowances to several officers under your command,” the letter reads. Officers from the Kenya Police Service and the Administration Police were involved. “If we find its true, we will ensure Chapter Six of the Constitution on integrity is adhered to,” National Police Service Commission chairman Johnston Kavulundi told the Star. “At the Commission, we are only involved at the policy level but if indeed the scam happened, then we have a laid down procedure to follow,” Kavulundi said. Click here for the latest political news