Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has received backing from a new Rift Valley-based youth caucus. The group said at a press conference on Saturday that the legislator is best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 and not DP William Ruto The youth caucus, with representatives from more than 15 counties, said although they have no problem with Ruto, they believe Gideon has the best qualities for the top job. "He represents the interests of the youth and cuts a national image which is likeable by many Kenyans," Allan Mulwa, the chairman of the group, said. The youth said they are ready to back Gideon for the top seat during the 2022 general election. He said the senator has on many occasions indicated his willingness to help tackle, in a structured manner, the problems facing the youths. Mulwa said their support for the legislator is part of their democratic right to back a leader of their choice. "We know the DP is there but it's our right to back someone of our choice in leadership and that is why we have settled on Gideon," Mulwa said. He said the caucus calling itself 'Vijana na Gidy' will go round the country to interact with the youth on how to deal with the challenges they face. Also read: Nyeri politicians form WhatsApp group for Gideon's 2022 bid "We want youth to take advantage of opportunities available in counties including contracts and other jobs," he said. Mulwa said the president's directive that youth get 30 per cent of all opportunities in counties should be fully implemented. "We will also work to ensure that youth take up jobs in both elective and appointment positions," he said. Mulwa suggested that counties should reserve the deputy governor seat for youths. Meanwhile, Governor Jackson Mandago has cautioned that Kenya will face a major youth crisis soon unless the country invests more in initiatives to deal with unemployment. He said the country has a high number of youth, mostly Standard 8 and Form 4 leavers, who lack training or opportunities to help themselves in life. The governor said both county and the national governments have to refocus investment priorities to help address matters to do with the youth. Read: We can't pledge votes to DP now Click here for the latest political news 