NASA principals have accused the media of misleading Kenyans with reports that the coalition in on the verge of collapse. Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula said the entity remains focused in its push for electoral justice. The leaders said "the differences within NASA ranks are extremely small
compared to the huge chasm in Jubilee which the media have chosen to
ignore." "The coalition has been able to resolve the minor disputes like
membership and leadership of House committees amicably," the leaders said. "...unlike the
Jubilee Party which has had to eject members forcibly from certain
committees." NASA cited the case of MPs Alfred Keter, Silas Tiren, James Gakuya, and Kangogo Bowen who were kicked out of House committees. "Furthermore, in recent days, a number of Jubilee Party leaders have
openly stated that their support for DP William Ruto to
succeed Uhuru Kenyatta is not guaranteed." The leaders urged their NASA supporters to ignore media reports that are determined to create rifts "where none exists". "That stand has gone against the official line that Ruto is in line
to succeed Uhuru. None of such violent disagreements have taken place in
NASA," they said. In a statement on Friday, the lot said NASA will continue to push growth in the social, economic, and democratisation fronts. "The coalition is firmly united on the fight for electoral justice, police reforms, strengthening the Judiciary, strengthening devolution and reforming the executive." Questions on NASA unity came to the fore after its three leaders snubbed Raila Odinga's self swearing in at Uhuru Park on January 30. The move saw Mudavadi, Kalonzo, and Wetang'ula supporters brand them traitors and irredeemable cowards. A section has demanded that Kalonzo - the Wiper leader and Raila's running mate - to be sworn in before they participate in the coalition's activities. The three leaders said their absence at the event was part of the coalition's strategy amid fears of Jubilee administration crackdown over the oath. Read: Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath Also read: Puzzle of Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula giving Raila's oath wide berth Click here for the latest political stories    