Title: The girl you left behind Author: Jojo Moyes Genre: Romance  Sophie and her sister are managing the best they can under German occupation during The Great War. When a new Kommandant arrives, he takes  overthe sisters’ restaurant for his men. In the restaurant hangs a sultry portrait of Sophie, painted by her artist husband Edouard, who is fighting at the Front. The Kommandant is a student of art himself and admires the work of the painting — and perhaps the subject as well. As Sophie and the Kommandant speak of art and things beyond the happenings of the war, Sophie begins to see him as a friend. When Sophie learns that her husband has been captured and sent to a prison camp infamous for its wretched conditions, she decides to risk her tenuous bond with the Kommandant in hopes that he can help her husband return to her. Flash-forward to nearly a 100 years later, Liv Halston is a young widow coping with loneliness and financial distress in modern-day London. On a night out to drown her sorrows, she meets Paul Cafferty. Paul stirs something in Liv that she hasn’t felt in years, and she decides to nurture this tender romance. Paul lives in London, putting his former skills as a New York City detective to work tracking down works of art wrongfully taken from their owners during wars and restoring them to their rightful heirs. His most recent case involves a WWI-era painting. His jaded attitude takes a backseat when he falls for vulnerable Liv, but that comes to a screeching halt when he wakes up in Liv’s bedroom to see the the painting he’s searching for, titled The Girl You Left Behind, hanging on his new girlfriend’s wall. Liv refuses to relinquish the painting that meant so much to her deceased husband, opting to have a showdown in court with Paul. She’s convinced he knew all along and used her romantically. Paul wishes she could see how cheated he feels by these turn of events, but he knows there is no future for them anymore and must focus on doing his job. As he sees the media pulverize Liv and discovers moral ambiguities in his clients’ motives, Paul finds himself digging deeper into what should be an open-and-shut case of property restoration, hoping that there’s more to how the Kommandant acquired Sophie’s painting than what his case folder contains. Though a century apart, two love stories hinge on the power of a beautiful painting — will that power destroy love or buy it a second chance?  Star Rating: 4/5