Residents of Gomongo and Korogocho slums in Ruaraka have protested the dumping of garbage in the area, saying it will lead to an illegal dumpsite. Private garbage collection trucks have been dumping waste in the slums. Residents say the trend has exposed them to health risks. They want the county government to intervene. The trucks find it easy to dump the garbage in the area instead of the Dandora dumpsite, which is less than a kilometre away. “The trucks want to use a shortcut to the dumpsite, but the bridge connecting the slum and the site is too narrow for them to cross. That is when they decide to drop the garbage and go,” resident Caleb Otieno said.The slums are adjacent to the Dandora dumpsite – the county's only legal waste yard – but are separated by Nairobi River. The bridge connecting them is, however, too narrow for vehicles to use, thus trucks transporting waste to the site can only access it using Komarock Road from Outer Ring-Juja Road roundabout. “Every morning they [homeless youths unloading the trucks] have been burning the waste to create room for new materials to be dumped, so the entire place is full of smoke, even inside our houses,” Peter Osunda said. He said the trucks are dumping on the roads, in front of houses and on drains blocking the systems. “These people never go beyond this place. This is a big concern because it is a health hazard,” he said. Waste And Environment Management Association Of Kenya chairman Chege Kariuki said they have not received the complaints, but promised to send a team to ground to address the issue. "I need to send a team there to confirm, which trucks are dong these because it may just be a few people who want to tarnish our names," he said on the phone yesterday. There has been increase in the number of illegal dumping sites in various parts of the city, with the county government blaming private contractors of illegal dumping. The 30-acre Dandora dumpsite was declared full in 1996, but has never been closed after several attempts to relocate it failed. It was to be relocated a 500 acres in Ruai, but the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority opposed the plan, arguing that birds attracted to the dumpsite may hinder planes flying to and from JKIA. The plan to establish an electricity generation plant, through City Hall's partnership with EMC Solutions, a German company, also failed after it emerged the county did not have a title for the land. Last year, the county started compacting the waste to create extra space and increase the life of the landfill by 10 years.