North Rift farmers want the national government to make adequate subsidised fertiliser available ahead of the planting season. They also want prices reduced. The farmers have expressed concerns, despite the government’s assurances that fertiliser would be subsidised. Kenya Farmers’ Association Uasin Gishu branch director Kipkorir Menjo on Tuesday said having the input in time and at the affordable prices would help them to plant early. “We call upon the government to fast-track importation of subsidised fertiliser. We don’t want a situation where we’ll be forced to plant without it,” he said in Eldoret town. “The fertiliser should reach the National Cereals and Produce Board depots before the end of this month for it to be helpful to us.” President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto should fulfil their campaign pledge to reduce the price of fertiliser, he said. The farmers want a bag to sell for Sh1,200, instead of the current Sh1,800. “This will reduce the cost of production and enable farmers to reap from their sweat,” Menjo said. North Rift is the country’s grain basket. This year, farmers are expected to begin planting as early as next month. They have been complaining every planting season about long queues at the NCPB depots when they visit to buy fertiliser. They want this to change so it does not delay their planting schedule. “I urge the counties to form cooperative societies where the subsidised farm input imported by the national government can be delivered to save on transport costs by smallholders,” Menjo said. He urged the government to seal loopholes used by cartels to benefit from the subsidy at the expense of farmers. Farmers have suffered for too long at the hands of unscrupulous traders who buy fertiliser from the NCPB and resell to farmers at exorbitant prices, Menjo said. “Once the maize and wheat growing counties form cooperative societies, the imported consignment will be ferried from Mombasa to the societies’ stores so farmers don’t incur transport expenses,” Menjo said.