Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama and his Mandera counterpart Ali Roba celebrated yesterday after their elections were upheld by the High Court. Nyamira High Court judge James Makau said there was insufficient evidence to nullify Nyagarama’s election. In Nairobi, justice Fred Ochieng dismissed the Roba petition, saying there were no serious irregularities to affect the outcome of the election. ”Even if there were irregularities, the said irregularities did not have any significant impact on the outcome,” Ochieng said. A scrutiny of the votes confirmed the results were “generally verifiable,” the court said. The court ordered petitioner Hassan Noor to pay Sh5 million as costs of the suit. Noor wanted Roba’s election nullified, saying it was marred with irregularities and inconsistencies. Ochieng dismissed Noor’s claims that the IEBC illegally altered and gazetted at least 10 polling stations. He also declined a request to order investigations against IEBC officials, saying there was no need. Ochieng further dismissed a claim by the petitioner that IEBC failed to distribute election materials as required. NO BRIBERY “I hold and find that the manner in which the distribution was conducted did not prejudice any party in any way,” Ochieng said. In Nyamira, Makau said petitioner Walter Nyambati did not produce sufficient evidence to warrant a nullification of Nyangarama’s win. Nyambati claimed there was voter bribery and intimidation during last year’s August 8 polls. “Whoever wants the court to give judgment in matters that are brought before the court should prove the same by way of giving sufficient evidence,” Makau said. INSUFFICIENT EVIDENCE Nyambati also claimed county officials were hired as poll officials to rig the election in Nyagarama’s favour. Makau dismissed the claims, saying the petitioner did not give specific laws that bar county officials from working with IEBC. The court found no evidence to link Nyangarama and poll officials with bribery and intimidation of voters. The petitioner failed to prove that the Nyagarama bribed and intimidated voters during the election as he did not produce any witnesses,” Makau said. Nyambati did not give specific names of voters bribed and the denominations used to bribe them. He also failed to prove the currency used to bribe the voters. “Proof of any allegations should be beyond the balance of probabilities to be considered,” Makau said. Elsewhere, Embakasi Central MP Benjamin Gathiru won his petition after his election was upheld. Nairobi High Court Judge Joseph Onguto said petitioner Hezron Omondi failed to sufficiently prove claims of irregularities and illegalities committed during the MP’s win. “There was not enough evidence to warrant the nullification of the election in Embakasi,” Onguto ruled. He directed Omondi to pay Sh3 million as costs. Also Read:'Busybodies' pay huge fines in election petitions. Was it worth it?