Coffee export earnings declined to Sh4.7 billion this year compared to Sh5.5 billion last year. Daniel Mbithi from the Nairobi Coffee Exchange said the 10 percent decrease was caused by the international prices that plummeted to the lowest in two years. “This resulted in lowering the income of coffee farmers from Sh5.5 billion as at January 2017 to Sh4.7 billion,” he said. The volume of coffee sold also declined by about four percent from 10,803,598 kilos last year to 10,361,488 this year. Mbithi attributed this to the prolonged wet weather towards the end of last year when the main crop is usually received at the market. Regional and international coffee stakeholders meeting in Uganda this week for the 16th African Fine Coffee Conference and Exhibition said there is need to fast track research on new varieties to improve growth. International Coffee Organization executive director Jose Sette said African governments should increase funding and consumption to shield the small-scale farmers against global market volatility. In a statement, he said most African countries, including Kenya, export nearly all coffee produced to global markets, except Ethiopia, which consumes more than half of its coffee. Uganda leads in exports. Sette said productivity is low in most coffee-producing countries in Africa with an average yield of 400 kg per 2.4 acres in the period 2011-12 to 2013-14, far below the 1500 kg per 2.5 acres and 200kg per 2.5 acres in Brazil and Vietnam respectively. Kenya’s output per hectare ( 2.5kg) stands at 250kg/ha, 600kg/ha and 300kg/ha in Ugandan and Tanzania respectively. The reasons behind the decline of the coffee sectors in most of the countries are diverse. An important pattern is the liberalisation of the coffee sectors following the dismantling of the export quota systems under the International Coffee Agreement in 1989, Sette said. He said regulatory frameworks and national coffee institutions - including boards which bought the product from farmers at institutional prices to market it in Europe - were dissolved. Sette said the lack of extension services in most countries has affected the transfer of skills and adoption of modern farming techniques.The use of mineral fertilisers is limited.    