When Donald Trump rode down the escalator at his Trump Towers to announce his candidacy in June 2015, few took him seriously. In fact, many dismissed his announcement as nothing but a ploy or groundwork for a reality show he was probably contemplating to launch. Fast forward past January 20, last year, when he was sworn as the 45th US President, Trump has not disappointed since day one, doing everything many feared he would do or not do,and worse. Were Trump to cease being President today, volumes of books would be written about his unlikely candidacy and election. One phenomenon to be featured in such volumes is the credible charge that Trump and willing enablers in Congress are systematically trying to discredit institutions that have been historically highly esteemed and independent of politics, such as the FBI and other intelligence services, all in efforts to muddy the ongoing, serious investigations against him, which could lead to his impeachment. The one question many are asking and shaking heads about in disbelief is: Will Trump destroy American institutions and norms, all in trying to save his own skin at the expense of the nation that will stand to suffer irreparable damage? The same question can be asked of Uhuru Kenyatta: Now that he has been sworn in and is legally the President of Kenya, will he destroy our political gains and institutions, all in efforts to fend off Raila Odinga as Trump is doing to fend off his Chief Investigator? Or will it be wiser to find solutions within the same institutions and political gains? Wisdom dictates that the latter is the wiser course for Uhuru. Rather than threatening or shutting down TV stations for doing what media is charged and obligated to do under our Constitution, or coercing others to peddle their propaganda by the barrel of a gun, Uhuru would be wiser to use the same media in reaching out to the rest of the country and making his case. Even though the opposition has the right and basis to be angry, as they are, the elections are over and Uhuru and his government will do ABC to not only bring peace, stability and progress for all Kenyans but to also ensure that as he leaves office, he will leave behind a less hostile nation. This can only be achieved by dismantling the anti-democratic systems that continue to thwart the will of the people. To be sure, that sounds like a contradiction but it’s more of a conundrum Uhuru can resolve to benefit his legacy to the country’s relief. Raila and the opposition, on their part, must reckon with the fact that once they decided to boycott the election of October 26, they forfeited every right to legally challenge it and the subsequent swearing-in of Uhuru as the legally elected President, regardless of how flawed that election may have been. While the swearing-in of Raila as the People’s President doesn’t make sense and is not supported by many, even in the opposition, the response by Jubilee cannot be arresting and charging anyone for any crime related to the oathing for none were committed other than in the minds of those who don’t know, don’t understand or don’t care about the Constitution. Indeed, even if crimes were committed, it was the massive rigging of the August 8 presidential election. The President should wisely use the power he now has for the benefit of all Kenyans, and, more so, for the benefit of those who feel most wronged by the outcome of the last year’s election. He should not use it to destroy such valuable ideals we have started to enjoy as a nation, such uuas freedom of the press and the rule of law. Using the presidential power in the right manner will take this country in the right direction — towards healing and unity. Doing otherwise will only ensure further division, bitterness and doom no one should want.