Resolution Kisii RFC’s hopes of remaining in Kenya Cup were dealt a blow when the debutants suffered a 21-14 loss against Strathmore Leos at Gusii Stadium. To survive in Kenya Cup, Kisii now faces a Herculean Task in their quest to remain afloat in the top flight. Kisii must win against Quins and Mombasa RFC to keep their Kenya Cup status for at least another season. Captain John Oduk gave Leos the lead through a try which was converted by Gideon Makumi. Clinton Imbunye extended Strathmore’s lead with a try which Makumi, again, converted to give the students a 14-0 cushion. Brian Mokua’s amazing run gave Kisii their first try which was converted by John Ochar as Aggrey Kitoi added another converted try as the teams went to the break tied at 14-14. In the second half, Kisii were the better side pinning their rivals to their own half but failed to break the resolute Strathmore defence. Oduk broke the hearts of Kisii fans when he crossed over for his second try with Makumbi adding the extras. This match was originally slated for December 9 last year but postponed at Strathmore’s request. Following the win, Strathmore consolidated their sixth position and final playoff slot heading into the final two matches of the regular season. The students play against Impala Saracens away and Homeboyz at home to complete their fixtures. Strathmore coach John Mbai said: “No one gave us a chance at the beginning of the season but I’m happy with the way we have fared in the league. With two games remaining we hope to play in the playoff. It will be a bonus for us if we qualify for the playoffs,” said Mbai. Commenting on the game, Mbai said: “It was a very competitive match. Kisii caused us problems throughout the game. Kisii are a good side with quality players. I wish them well.” Kisii’s coach Nick Abok admitted their chances of survival in Kenya Cup are slim but vowed to fight until the last game. “We must work a miracle against Quins. Beating them is not easy but we must try. The two games are must win for us,” said Abok. Kisii remain 11th with seven points and will be relegated if they lose against Quins next weekend. “This is a game we should have won but we committed mistakes and we were punished. The players tried their best,” he added.