NASA MPs have maintained that they will not to participate in the vetting of Principal Secretaries and Ambassadors recently nominated by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Minority leader John Mbadi yesterday told the Star that they will boycott committee sittings to vet the nominees this week. “Nothing has really changed. Our members will not attend those committee sittings unless they are advised otherwise,” Mbadi said in a phone interview. Read: CS nominees get easy ride during House vetting as NASA MPs keep off Last week, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi formally committed the names to various committees directing them to conduct the vetting within seven days in accordance with Section 8 of the Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approval) Act. "It is therefore imperative that each of the Committees immediately seizes itself of the matter to enable speedy conclusion within the set timelines. The Committees are expected to have concluded their reports to the House on or before February 27, 2018 to enable the House to consider and finalise on the nominees within the stipulated timelines," Muturi said. The 349 MPs earn Sh5,000 per sitting each. PS nominees Nelson Marwa (Devolution), Julius Muia (Planning) will be vetted by the committee on Finance, Planning and Trade. Safina Kwekwe (Gender), Hamadi Boga (Agriculture Research), Peter Tum (Health) shall be vetted by committees on Labour and Social Welfare, Agriculture and Health respectively. Gordon Kihalagwa the outgoing director of immigration and who has been nominated to be the PS in-charge of Immigration, Border Control and Registration of Persons shall be vetted by the Committee on Administration and National Security. Nominee for the PS Water and Sanitation will be vetted by the committee on Environment and Natural Resources while Macharia Kamau (Foreign Affairs) shall be vetted by committees on Defence and Foreign Relations. Other nominees to be vetted by the Defence and Foreign Relations committee include immediate former CSs who have been nominated as ambassadors and high commissioners. Judy Wakhungu ( France ), Cleopa Mailu (UN), Dan Kazungu (Tanzania), Phylis Kandie (Belgium), Willy Bett (India), Jacob Kaimenyi (UNEP), Abdikadir Mohammed (South Korea) and Hassan Wario (Austria). The Committee on Appointments chaired by Muturi completed the vetting of CS nominees. Nasa boycotted the exercise and has not presented names to the committee. “We will do our work as per the Constitution. It is the mandate of Parliament to vet nominees forwarded by the President and that is what exactly we will do,” majority leader Aden Duale said when Nasa threatened to boycott vetting process of CSs. Uhuru announced changes to the Cabinet 85 days after he was sworn in as the country’s fifth President. The President created the new position of Chief Administrative Secretary. Uhuru said, “The Chief Administrative Secretary will be responsible for helping the CS coordinate running of affairs in respective ministries”. Related: NASA MPs to skip debate on Uhuru's Cabinet nominees More: Muturi led-team approves nine cabinet nominees Click here for the latest political stories