By the time we come to the end of the year, we will certainly be a different people from who we are today. That change will most likely be the sum total of our thoughts. The Bible says, “As a man thinketh so is he.” Allow me, therefore, to hasten to say that it matters a lot the thoughts you entertain and harbour as we scale the ladder of 2018. What you eventually become this year will almost entirely depend on the nature and quality of your thoughts. Think positively for a painless life. Norman Vincent Peale, in his book The Power of Positive Thinking, first published in 1952, advocates a permanent constructive and optimistic attitude through constant positive influence of conscious thoughts. The writer believes that through positive thinking, we can achieve a higher satisfaction and quality of life. Indeed, positive thinking holds the secret to success in overcoming life challenges and finding solutions. Positive thinkers are generally solutionists as opposed to fault-finders who blame anything in sight. A positive thinker tends to enjoy acceptance by and stronger relationships with those around him or her. Positive thinking helps builds hope. As we probably all know, hope does not disappoint. High self-esteem is said to be such an asset in one’s life. We should, however, know that this self-esteem does not grow in an environment toxified with negativity. Those who entertain negative thoughts will inevitably develop low self-esteem. Only positive thinkers appreciate themselves or who they are, those around them and generally the environment in which they are located. I cannot figure out how we can possibly build a great Kenya unless we appreciate the power of positive thinking. Positive thinkers are the only people who see possibilities and would not let anything come between them and the goals they have set out to achieve individually and collectively. Dan Cassidy says that people who are successful tend to predominantly have thoughts of optimism for health, wealth and abundance. He encourages us to adopt a positive belief system because our thoughts, which create our reality, are products of our beliefs. As we take majestic steps towards our individual and corporate destiny, seizing every opportunity that 2018 presents, I take the latitude to remind us that our thoughts lead to behaviours; behaviours lead to habits and habits create our life. The quality of service delivery, take for instance, at the Kenya School of Government, where I work, will be determined largely by the quality of thoughts of the staff. Those thoughts influence the employees’ collective behaviours, decisions and actions. Since it is not a secret that at the School and staff want to finish strong and to make KSG great, we encourage the staff, as we do all Kenyans, to unleash the power of positive thinking for our individual and collective good. Director, Kenya School of Government, Mombasa campus