Vihiga United concluded their preparations for the Kenya Premier League bow with a hard fought 1-0 win over 10-man Kisumu All Stars at Moi Stadium on Wednesday. Vihiga will make their KPL debut on Sunday at Bukhungu Stadium against Mathare United. In the Wednesday afternoon friendly, Michael Isabwa who returned from Kariobangi Sharks, scored the lone goal in the second half from a free-kick. Vihiga would have opened their account earlier but Charles Okweba’s penalty was save in 30th minute by Kisumu All Stars goalkeeper Robert Ouma. In the second half, Vihiga coach Edward Manoah changed the entire team. All Stars finished the game with 10 men after Collins Wendo was sent to the showers for a second bookable offence. Manoah said even though his team is still scrappy, they are ready for the game against Mathare. “Our pre-season has been short but intensive. KPL management and Football Kenya Federation should give teams enough time to prepare for the new season. However, we are ready for the game against Mathare and we want to start strongly,” said Manoah. He added: “Our main objective is to maintain our KPL status, then build up from there next season. Some of my boys are anxious but I have told them to relax ahead of their KPL debut.” The Vihiga County Government sponsored club signed 12 players and off loaded 14, who helped the club qualify to the Kenya Premier League. The new signings are Michael Isabwa, Andrew Murunga, Geoffrey Puti, Ali Kesi, Fernandez Tera, Jonathan Mugabi, Victor Ayugi, Vincent Wonder, William Oricho, Wycliffe Kabaji, Vincent Kagasi and Daudi Saisi. Those released were Clyde Senaji, Kevin Muhanji, Gilbert Munai, Frankline Mwenda, Gideon Abucheri, Johnson Muyesu, Oscar Omwami, Nelson Asena, Aquinos Alugfwani, John Ouma, Kephaz Baraza, Rashid Kyambadde and Lucas Weitere. Weitere has since returned to Isibania FC Mwenda, Senaji and Muhanji were sent on loan. Kisumu All Stars coach Nick Aketch used the friendly to prepare for NSL game against St Joseph’s Youth next weekend. “I have been with this team for about three weeks and I’m happy with the progress. We want to play two more matches before the league starts,” added Aketch a former Kisumu Posta striker. All Stars replaced Palos FC who withdrew from the NSL and Aketch is targeting a top three finish in the NSL this season.