The reluctant reopening of TV stations a week after the Jubilee regime punished Kenyans by shutting down broadcast stations doesn’t absolve the government from illegality and abrogation of the Constitution. Jubilee’s intransigence must be seen in a wider and extensive undemocratic trajectory the government has been experimenting with. Not even court orders have softened the sadism of it all. The evidence that Jubilee’s intimidation of the Judiciary is paying off is the consistency with which court orders are ignored by its functionaries. The loud silence from LSK is quite telling. Not even the world’s shock at the brutal action on media relaxed a regime seemingly bent on self-destruction. Jubilee is on a test-run to destroy constitutional and democratic gains achieved over decades of bloodletting and death. Kenyans have no precedent of the depth of such a clampdown on information, as it never even happened in the dark hour of kleptocracies in Africa. A government committed to destroying its covenant with the people has three titles to its name: authoritarian, autocracy and dictatorship. We haven’t seen the army parade in the streets, but Jubilee’s undeclared martial rule is obvious in actions that ridicule the law. A single innocent event provoked government to bare its despotic fangs. In Orwellian fashion where government is an all-knowing mind reader, Jubilee’a anticipation of Kenyans’ jeers and cheers of the installation of Raila Odinga as the ‘People’s President’ led to this madness. It’s madness because there’s no pretence of decency but selective justice for party or ethnic creed. The shutdown strained even diehard Jubilee enthusiasts into rethinking their support for a regime threatening their livelihoods. A vibrant media enjoying unrivalled buoyancy has over time become part of the social, political and economic life of the country. Media has shed the traditional tag of government mouthpiece. The measure of freedom of the media reflects the enjoyment of rights and exercise of freedoms by the people. Violation dooms regime credibility. Media is an employer, investment and institution. Media trade on the stock exchange and investors lost millions. Advertising revenue and income opportunities were lost. From a governance perspective, violations mutated into abrogation of the Bill of Rights and government lost heavily in perception, reliability and international stature. The interesting aspect is that no tangible justification was advanced other than tortuous innuendo and conjecture. The crime? The President appears outraged that his solicitation that the swearing-in of Raila not be covered didn’t sell. He didn’t just shut down media; he wouldn’t let them cover him. He isn’t ignorant of the simple wording of section 34( 1 ) of the Constitution that guarantees not just freedom of the media but their independence. Intimidating select editors at State House contravened the edict that the state over which he presides “shall not exercise control over or interfere with any person engaged in broadcasting, the production or circulation of any publication or dissemination of information by any medium”. Throughout the darkness, absent was the expected local uproar. The usual shrill voices famed for peace calls such as religious groups were stilled; the combative intervention of the business community in their stampede for a piece of single-sourced government procurement was absent, despite the shutdown affecting members; and picketing by an ordinarily vocal civil society was dull. Credit goes to the international community that for once saw through Jubilee’s defacing of the Constitution and saw it for what it is — a return to dictatorship. Meanwhile, the opposition played into Jubilee’s hands when rookie legislators swallowed the bait and drove headstrong into cannibalising itself over who was and who wasn’t in Uhuru Park. Unaware they were answering Jubilee’s prayer for a raptured opposition. A disorganised opposition hasn’t noticed that the TV shutoff masked a heinous crackdown within its ranks and illegalities that have attracted little public participation. The swearing-in meant to solidify NASA’s fight for electoral justice is threatening to splinter this agenda. NASA needs a quick about-turn from intra wars to confront Jubilee’s attack on fundamental rights. kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,   