State House has gagged Jubilee MPs. They are banned from appearing on live TV and Radio shows and even responding to media enquiries without prior consultation. The Star has learnt that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto also barred lawmakers allied to the ruling party from making public pronouncements on national issues without permission. Instead, county commissioners will be deployed to vernacular radio stations to articulate the government’s development agenda in what is seen as a strategy to control and regulate information flow. A Jubilee Party official said it is meant to ensure coherence in the ruling party’s communications. “We feel that our priority is not to respond to allegations being thrown left, right and centre,” the official said. The official added this explains why they have been silent on NASA’s claims of a State crackdown on its members. An MP who sought anonymity for fear of reprisals told the Star, “As you might have noticed, we’re not talking to the media as per the instructions of the President and Deputy President.” The MP said Uhuru warned them against making appearances on live broadcast shows without the authority of the Presidency. “He was categorical that the caveat must be respected at all costs,” the third-term legislator said, adding the directive has strained their engagement with the Fourth Estate. “We are in a dilemma even when we feel we have strong and persuasive views we want to articulate. We are missing a lot on constructive public discourse.” This means those wishing to contribute to issues or comment on current affairs must first obtain express authority from the Majority leaders of the bicameral House. Vocal Garissa Township MP Aden Duale is the Majority leader in the National Assembly and Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen is his Senate counterpart. A senior Jubilee MP said the order was given during the JP Parliamentary Group meeting at State House, Nairobi, on Tuesday last week. Barely 50 MPs attended. Uhuru read the riot act to those absent. He told the MPs to tow the party line or ship out — a rare move that angered even those present. They said Uhuru was “disrespectful to us as representatives of the people”. They were warned against snubbing PG meetings aimed at deliberating on issues and taking a common stand on the party’s legislative agenda. During the run-up to the August 8 election, MPs were frequent guests on TV and Radio talk shows, explaining Jubilee’s agenda to voters. At some point, many of them appeared on the shows to sell Jubilee’s manifesto and woo the electorate. Click here for the latest political news