President
Uhuru Kenyatta is not keen on arresting NASA leader Raila Odinga, despite pressure
from some of his closest advisers. Raila
has said the State is after him, after it arrested and deported his ally Miguna
Miguna to Canada and charged Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang’ with treason for their
role in the "swearing-in” event on January 30. People
close to the President told the Star yesterday that Uhuru believes arresting
Raila will raise political tensions, which could adversely affect his
development plans. “All
we are seeing now is nothing new. We have seen it before and even swearing-in
himself means nothing: We have no crisis of any nature. President Kenyatta was
dully elected and sworn in. He has a job to do and that is what he is focused
on," Jubilee Secretary General Raphael Tuju told the BBC's HARDtalk programme. Jubilee
MPs have also been asked to keep off debate about Raila and his activities
because “doing so will embolden the Opposition and fuel their agenda”. Apart
from Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who, in the run-up to Raila's oath-taking said
they would undertake a male initiation ceremony in Uhuru Park on the day Raila
swore himself in, Jubilee MPs, governors and MCAs have uncharacteristically
been quiet. “Politics
ended once Uhuru was elected. Jubilee is now focussed on serving the people who
elected them,” said Kuria. Jubilee
vice-chairman David Murage would not be drawn into discussing dialogue with the
Opposition and the curious silence by Jubilee leaders. “No
comment,” he snapped. Another
group around the President believes that Raila is no longer a threat; so
ignoring him would be the best option. On
a personal level, the President is reported to have a lot of time and respect
for Raila. In
both official and personal interactions, the NASA leader and President Uhuru
have always addressed each other as “Ndugu (Brother)”. Even
as Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition Government,
Raila and Uhuru addressed official government letters and memos to each other
as “Ndugu”, and not “Dear Sir, PM or DPM”. There
is a general understanding that the two leaders, now at the centre of major
standoff on the national political stage, generally respect each other even as
they differ politically. More on this: [Statement] Uhuru's defiance of dialogue with Raila perils Kenya's unity - Salim Lone Also read: Uhuru urges political cooperation in Africa But
as Uhuru embarks on his second and final term as President and Raila pursues his
final actions on the political stage that will have a huge impact on how
Kenyans remember him, the question in the minds of most Kenyans is whether
history will repeat itself between the Kenyatta and Odinga families. When
he took over in 2013, Uhuru is said to have been keen to end the decades-old
animosity between his family and Raila’s, which has translated into a love-hate
relationship between the Luo and the Kikuyu even in the three-million-person
Diaspora. This
concern appeared to be shared by the Odingas and is said to be part of the
reason Raila simply accepted the Supreme Court ruling that confirmed Uhuru’s
win in 2013 and proceeded to wish the President well. Five
years ago, Raila is said to have been uncomfortable starting another prolonged
contest with Uhuru, which risked widening the rifts between the two families
and communities. Raila
has often stated that the differences between his father, Jaramogi Oginga
Odinga and Uhuru’s father, Jomo Kenyatta, who were the Founding Vice President
and President of Kenya, respectively, were ideological, not tribal or personal. Observers
however fear history is repeating itself as Raila and Uhuru retain a respectful
personal relationship while they differ bitterly politically, with their differences
leading even to loss of lives as was the case between their fathers. When
Jomo died in 1978, Jaramogi, his first Vice-President, with whom they had
fallen out politically in 1966-69, attended the laying in state of the body at
State House, Nairobi, and, standing next to the body, wept too after saying a
prayer in Dholuo. After his loud dirge, which was broadcast by the State-owned
Voice of Kenya Radio and TV, Jaramogi told the media he did not have fundamental
differences with Kenyatta Related: Envoys back clerics and Kepsa proposed Uhuru-Raila dialogue Also read: 'God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto The
subject of whether the sons of the founders of the Kenyan nation will heal the
wounds or keep digging is a sensitive one, even among the MPs allied to the
respective leaders. In
Parliament however, a number of Luo MPs view Uhuru more favourably than his
deputy, William Ruto. Some
say that, in any contest that happens to pit Uhuru’s interests against Ruto’s,
they will back Uhuru because they think he is more respectful of Raila. The
MPs however feel the ongoing crackdown on NASA leaders is Uhuru’s doing and
could undermine the favourable view. Uhuru’s people too think the recent
self-coronation by Raila as ‘People’s President’ is the final affront on the
mutual respect the two leaders have enjoyed over the years and could be a
turning point. Still,
some of the leaders allied to Raila privately advise that he should tread with
care. “With
the ‘People’s President’ title, he could just stick to promoting popular causes
without further actions that provoke rivalry with Uhuru,” a former Senator
said. Raila
too is said to be keen to retain the mutual respect with Uhuru and has often
asked his team to refrain from attacking Uhuru personally. It
is said that some politicians and technocrats in the current regime and those
drawn from the Grand Coalition days have been working behind the scenes to
restore contacts between Uhuru and Raila in the hope it could mark the
beginning of a solution to the political standoff. The
team had advised direct engagement with Raila and avoiding the use of
traditional Raila rivals like Raphael Tuju and Dalmas Otieno, among others. The
team also advised that foreign diplomats take a back seat in the effort to
resolve the current standoff and leave it to local leaders, including elders
who understand its origins better. The two leaders fear that if the rift
between the Kenyatta and Odinga familes is not resolved by the two sons
currently at the apex of national politics, it may never be resolved at all and
could one day lead the country into a full-scale civil war. Click here for the latest political news