A police officer alleged to have been renting guns to criminals will remain in custody until the conclusion of his case, a Nairobi court has ordered. Senior Sergeant Gabriel Rotich was denied bail by Milimani senior resident magistrate Hellen Onkwani following an objection by the prosecution. The officer has denied five counts of conspiracy to commit a felony, theft of three pistols and permitting falsification of a register. He had earlier been granted Sh400,000 bail in a separate charge of theft of a pistol. But when his criminal charges were added, prosecution opposed bail application, saying he is a flight risk, and, being a police officer, he was likely to interfere with witnesses. But defence lawyer George Kanyi opposed the application, saying his client, being a police officer, is a Kenyan citizen who will attend court as ordered. Onkwani in her ruling said the prosecution application has merit. She said Rotich will remain in custody until the hearing and determination of the case. Earlier, Rotich was charged with renting a pistol to unauthorised persons in his capacity as senior sergeant of police in charge of DCI armoury. He surrendered to police after close to a week in alleged hiding. The officer allegedly went missing hours after two suspected gangsters were shot dead in the Industrial Area and a police gun recovered. Evidence of collusion between police and criminal gangs emerged after guns from the Kiambu station were found in his house. Five pistols kept in a safe, intended to be exhibits in criminal prosecutions, appeared to have been handed to police officers on duty. Such guns are normally under lock and key and are not given to police. Two pistols and 95 bullets were recovered from the house and office of the senior sergeant. The new charges against the officer state that on January 19, he conspired with others to commit robbery with violence. The prosecution also alleges that on December 17 and January 19, Rotich stole three firearms worth Sh710,000. The last count states that having custody of the arms register of Kiambu DCI, he entered false serial numbers.