The IMF is expected to warn Kenya about the soaring public debt as it begins meetings with government officials. World Bank’s financial arm withdrew Kenya’s access to a $1.5 billion (Sh151.9 billion) standby loan to support the budget in June 2017, a move that may have forced the Central Bank of Kenya to float two bonds worth Sh40 billion this past week. The withdrawal was effected due to the government’s failure to meet targets which include reducing fiscal deficit to 3.7 per cent of the GDP and a delayed review attributed to a prolonged election period. “The programme has not been discontinued, but access was lost in mid-June because a review had not been completed,” Jan Mikkelsen the IMF resident representative in Kenya told Reuters. Cushion “There was no agreement on the fiscal adjustment at the time and then I do believe the lengthy election period made it difficult to have a review and complete that in the period that followed.” In March 2016, the IMF offered Kenya the emergency loan to be used 24 months in case of external shocks. Over the past four MPC meetings, Njoroge has said the availability of the IMF debt facility is one of the cushions in place in case the country is hit with extreme shocks resulting from a balance of payment emrgency. “The CBK foreign exchange reserves currently stand at $7.01 billion (Sh700 billion), 4.7 months of import cover. These reserves, together with the precautionary arrangements with the IMF, equivalent to $1.5 billion (Sh150 billion), continue to provide an adequate buffer against short term shocks in the foreign exchange market,” CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said after the January 22 MPC meeting. Import cover is the number of months of imports that can be covered with foreign exchange reserves available with the Central Bank. The Treasury in this year’s Budget Policy Statement projects fiscal deficit to slow to Sh587.7 billion next financial year from Sh620.8 billion in the current year which is six per cent of GDP from 7.2 per cent in the 2017-18 fiscal year. The outcome of deliberations between the IMF and government may further impact uptake of the two bonds which were put up for sale last week. This is after global rating agency Moody’s downgraded Kenya’s credit score as a result of Kenya’s mounting debt levels and its inability to service existing loans. The agency downgraded Kenya’s issuer rating to B2 from B1. Click here for the latest political news 