The European Union wants all Kenyan actors to recognise the re-election of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The European External Action Service issued a statement on Thursday following opposition leader Raila Odinga's self-declaration as the people's president. Related: I wasn't mad to swear by Bible, delayed oath a strategy - Raila Like the US, the diplomatic service and foreign and defence ministry emphasised respect for the constitution and the rule of law. "This includes recognising the outcome of the elections and the re-election of president Kenyatta," said spokesperson Catherine Ray. "It also means respect of freedoms of assembly, media and speech and implies lifting any ban on media operating within the law." The government shut down three major TV stations - Citizen, NTV and KTN shortly before Raila's event at Uhuru Park in Nairobi on January 30. On Thursday, the High Court suspended the ban for 14 days while the case is heard but the channels were still off air after the directive. Asked about the matter, ICT Cabinet Secretary Joseph Mucheru told the BBC it was a security issue and that only the Interior Ministry could answer the question of when the stations would be able to broadcast again. Read: Reopen TV stations, High Court orders state Also read: TV channels still off air despite court order Ray noted the elections season is over but added that the challenges the IEBC was presented with must eventually be addressed. Key figures were asked to contribute to efforts to maintain stability and help Kenyans fulfil development and further democracy. US Department of State spokesperson Heather Nauert earlier said they were worried about Raila's swearing-in. In a statement on Thursday, the US noted: "We reject actions that undermine Kenya’s constitution and the rule of law. Uhuru Kenyatta was elected as president of the Republic of Kenya on October 26, 2017 in a poll that was upheld by Kenya’s Supreme Court." The US called for a national conversation on the route Kenya should take. Read more: Trump 'gravely concerned' by Raila swearing-in, media attacks Click here for the latest political stories