Mombasa MCAs allied to Hassan Joho are furious that Mohamed Ali said he cannot be President in 2022. They are also incensed because the Nyali MP alleged Joho and his brother Abu have influence over police. Ali claimed law enforcers are used to frustrate him and his supporters and demanded their reshuffle. Bolstered by Friday’s court ruling that his election was valid, he added: “I fear neither Joho nor his brother Abu, only God. “Joho is going around claiming he wants to be the next President of Kenya but he will not succeed in doing so.” More on vote: Nyali MP Mohammed Ali's election upheld for lack of proof Also read: Joho thrust into 2022 politics after Kalonzo 'lets down' Raila But ODM MCAs have said Ali's utterances about“a man who made him what he is today” were disrespectful. Nominated member Moses Aran said Joho’s league is higher than Ali’s so the legislator should slow down his "unsubstantiated insults". “First face me before dreaming of competing with ‘President\ Joho. You are an amateur in leadership and strategy-wise,” he said. Aran added that Ali is always mum in the National Assembly because of his “ineptness and cannot purport to poke-nose” when Joho is mentioned. “He should live with the fact that he is a toddler in politics and cannot match the Governor. Dragging Joho into his arguments will not lift his political profile." He further said the lawmaker is lucky as he almost lost his seat. Other MCAs who castigated the MP include Mjambere’s Fahad Kasim and Tononoka’s Ali Shariff. On Friday, Judge Lidya Achode said Daniel Omondi – the petitioner – failed to give substantial evidence to warrant the nullification of Ali’s election. The MP defeated Joho’s cousin, Said Abdalla, in the August 8, 2017 general election. Ali said the journey to reclaim Nyali from “jaws of the wicked ones” had started. “You have been trying to fight me and finish my political career but my God will not let that happen,” he said in apparent reference to Joho. Immediately he was declared the winner in August, the journalist began a campaign against Mombasa leadership, claiming the administration had coached witnesses to rule him out. But Aran said Ali “is clutching at straws as his days are numbered”. “We know your boss, so come out clearly,” the MCA said. Ali has often been associated with the ruling party. Read more: Mohammed Ali accuses rivals of 'cooking evidence' to overturn Nyali MP win Click here for the latest political news