A parliamentary committee yesterday demanded the government immediately bans logging and revokes loggers’ licences. The National Assembly Committee on Environment, chaired by Kereke Mbiuki (Maara), asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to declare logging a national disaster because it has devastating consequences. “The wanton environment degradation through unchecked logging is a crisis that Parliament is seized of and is determined to address,” Mbiuki said. He and committee members addressed a press conference at Parliament Buildings. “The destruction of our national forests through unchecked logging is having a devastating impact on our water towers, which are increasingly drying up.” The committee said forests are disappearing, leading to perennial droughts and increased flooding due to climate change. “We are demanding the Kenya Forest Service revoke all existing logging licences [and] a multi-agency team undertake a holistic audit of our country’s forest cover, which will inform the government utilisation plan in future,” Mbiuki said. There has been growing public outcry in parts of the country over uncontrolled tree-cutting for timber and charcoal. Residents have protested against government’s failure to act on deforestation activities in Mt Elgon, Nyeri, Murang’a and Mau Forest. “Due to looming calamities and the several government players involved in forest conservation and management, the government should consider anchoring Kenya Water Towers in the presidency for good coordination,” Mbiuki said. Vice chairperson Sophia Abdi (Ijara) said logging should be banned until a comprehensive audit to establish its impact is done across the nation. “Global warming and climate change are a threat globally. Kenyans are not serious about this problem, therefore the government should stand with us on this noble cause,” she said. Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta said illegal tree-cutting and invasion of forests have been exacerbated by politics. “Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga led the evacuation of people from Mau Forest during the grand coalition government to save the environment, but politicians politicised the matter, making him lose political support,” he said.