The boutique Hemingways Hotel is nestled in a quiet corner of Nairobi’s Karen suburb. A cabro-paved driveway bordered with flowering shrubs leads up to the portico hotel entrance. The check-in counter is a discreet work desk. But the curved, double staircase with wrought-iron railings, modern chandelier, soaring ceiling and life-size wall photography gives the foyer a sumptuous feel. The lobby lounge has colonial style furnishings and old-fashioned wicker ceiling fans. One of the personal butlers assigned to each guestroom drove me to my room in a golf cart and even offered to unpack. All 45 bedrooms are named after famous personalities linked to Kenya, such as Leakey, Sheldrick, Meryl Streep and Ernest Hemingway, with photo portraits on the walls giving a snapshot of their lives. The high-ceilinged rooms with canopy beds have lovely views of the manicured gardens and fountain ponds, which I enjoyed while reclined on my balcony lounge seat. I appreciated the attention to detail, like the bowl of fresh fruits, bedside floor mats, bathrobes, slippers and bedside reading lamps. And there is real milk in the in-room coffee station, instead of the non-dairy creamer typical in most hotels. With the click of a button, the TV screen rises from a vintage style steamer trunk facing a comfortable sofa. The enviably large bathroom has a walk-in closet, shoe racks and his-and-hers sinks. In the large shower closet is a sit-down ledge, but I indulged in a warm bath with Epsom salts. Time allowing, I might have splurged at the spa with a Coffee beans scrub or Cleopatra scrub of oats, honey and milk. However, the sauna, steam room and gym are available at no cost. At sunset, we had cocktails and light snacks on the upstairs balcony, from where the Ngong Hills look almost touchable. Meals are taken in the Hemingways Brasserie, but we sat for dinner at restaurant’s terrace, with charcoal jikos to keep us warm. Chef Archie and his team prepared a wonderful Lobster Tail and Filet Mignon combo. Throughout, the staff were friendly and very professional. I stayed for just one night but it was a blissful experience.  Location: Nairobi County – Mbagathi Ridge road in Karen Contacts: central.reservations@hemingways.co; +254 ( 0 ) 20 2295 011/012/013/014/015   Star Rating: 5/5