Joshua Kuttuny has warned the government against arresting Nasa politicians and asked the president not to worry. The Cherangany MP, who is a member of the ruling Jubilee Party, noted the arrests only make the politicians more popular. “Let us be calm and plan for 2022," he said on Monday amid demands for lawyer Miguna Miguna's release. The court earlier ordered IG Joseph Boinnet and DCI boss George Kinoti to personally present Miguna in court at 9am on Tuesday. Details: Boinnet, Kinoti ordered to personally produce Miguna in court on Tuesday Kuttuny said the opposition coalition has already lost direction and that there is no
way Raila’s defiant oath can destabilise the government as Uhuru Kenyatta is in power. “There is no problem with swearing-in Raila several times
because Uhuru is the president. The arrests of those who helped him
take the oath should stop because they has no positive impact for the government." He spoke at Kachibora in his
constituency after launching a cash transfer programme and the NHIF registration of the elderly. Kuttuny asked Uhuru not to worry because he is the president
until 2022. “It was Nasa's plan to issue threats so as to cause chaos after its leaders are arrested," he added. Three oppositions politicians have been arrested so far, since the self-inauguration on January 30, as Interior cabinet secretary tames the National Resistance Movement. They are Ruaraka MP Tom Kajwang, lawyer Miguna Miguna and Makadara MP George Aladwa. Raila's co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) did not attend the ceremony. Kuttuny branded Kalonzo a traitor who was
scared. “I also laughed at Mudavadi and Kalonzo for failing to attend Raila’s swearing-in. Luhyas are strong. I have never seen
cowards like the two. When a Luhya is ready for circumcision, he will always
face the circumciser and not escape to the maize plantation like what happened with the two." Related: I wasn't mad to swear by Bible, delayed oath a strategy - Raila The legislator said the coalition is suffering disharmony and expressed doubt about unity had Raila won the presidential election last year. On the shutdown of TV stations ahead of Raila's oath, he said: “TV stations sometimes give negative information but they also broadcast positive
news. There is no need for the president to be angry because in the past, he has
always turned out victorious against negative publicity." Following calls by local and international leaders, the government reopened NTV and KTN on Monday afternoon. More on this: Kenya bows to pressure, restores KTN and NTV broadcast Click here for the latest political news