In 1964, soon after Independence, the government, through the forest department, employed some Kenyans to take care of the government forests. These employees lived in the forests, where they practised shifting cultivation under the shamba system. The employees were in two categories, permanent employees on one hand, and casuals who were hired in peak seasons, like tree planting or pruning, or in case there was a forest fire. If an employee died or retired, the forest department would employ his wife, son or daughter as a replacement. The forest department also allowed them to keep livestock. Through harambee spirit, they constructed cattle dips and crushes in forests, and also built schools for their children. It is under this system that some Kenyans were engaged in Shamanek, Gitundaga, North Marmanet and South Marmanet forests in the then Laikipia district (now Laikipia county). They stayed there until the mid-1980s, when they were forcibly evicted. This ruined their lives and subjected them to a future of misery. Decades later, the group has mobilised to pursue compensation from the government for the suffering they went through. Gross historical injustices were committed against them, they contend, as the forests from which they were evicted were soon subdivided and allocated to people brought in from other districts, while they were left at the roadside with nowhere to go. The group, led by bishop Charles Gachema, chairman of the True Vine Apostolic Ministry, and politician Wangui Miano, who ran for Laikipia woman representative last year, have hired Nyahururu-based advocate David Makara to pursue their cause. On January 30, they registered the Marmanet Forest Evictees Association (Mafea), under which they will pursue compensation. Already, 3,000 victims have registered with the group. Its chairman, Charles Gachema, says they hope to rope in 10,000 evictees.  HOW TROUBLES BEGAN The former forest settlers’ lives changed for the worse on July 22, 1998, says member John Ngandu. The then Laikipia district commissioner John Nandasaba called a meeting of all who worked in forests in Laikipia West. He issued a 21-day notice, until August 16, 1998, for them to vacate the forests or be forcibly evicted. “Nandasaba told us he had come to wash his hands of us, since we claimed we were his people and could not leave the forests. He asked for water in a basin, washed his hands and dried with a towel. He said we shall know he is the government and was sent to issue the orders if we do not vacate,” Ngandu says. In a petition they are preparing, which the Star has seen, the group claim the quit notice was short and inconsiderate, and caused them loss and suffering in several ways. Families lost their source of livelihood in terms of income and food, as they left their crops and animals since they had nowhere to take them. Those who offered to buy their animals gave next to nothing, with a cow going for Sh15,000 and a sheep or goat for Sh250. Other animals were stolen or eaten by wild animals. This, they claim, resulted in stress and trauma to both parents and children. The social order was rudely and suddenly destroyed, resulting in death of the aged soon after eviction, as they were separated from those who took care of and nursed them. The government did not resettle them, as would have been expected. The executors of eviction used harsh, cajoling and insulting statements, which led to frustration and wondering if they were truly Kenyans.  SCHOOL DROPOUTS Many children dropped out of school and resorted to child labour. Those whose parents managed to enrol them in other schools learned under trauma and stress. Some children were orphaned as parents succumbed to stress. Children who were to sit KCPE examination in 1998 were affected, as schools in the forests were brought down, among them Shamanek, Gitundaga, DEB and CCM primary schools. Those who were lucky to sit the exam elsewhere to date do not know where to collect their certificates. The evictees got depressed as they helplessly watched as the forestland was allocated to other people. They felt betrayed, mistreated and discriminated against, as they watched others fell logs and sell them, burn charcoal, and subsequently settle and farm the land. Families were broken, as some men left never to be seen again. Women and girls resorted to prostitution to make ends meet, while some were raped or defiled during the evictions. Some families eventually settled at Maina slums in Nyahururu, while others put together the little they had to buy land where they now live, crowded in small slums called Kang’a across Laikipia West. Kang’a is a Kikuyu word meaning hard and dry due to rocks. Thirty-three such Kang’as are spread in Laikipia West, where they do not have places to bury their dead. The Star toured some of these Kang’as on January 21, and also observed that most of their inhabitants do not have toilets, as the deepest they can dig is three feet due to hard rocks.  EVICTEES’ DEMANDS The evictees say they will petition the government to resettle them to allay the discontent from watching other Kenyans being allocated land after they were forcibly evicted. They are also demanding that the government compensate them for loss of crops, livestock and livelihood, disrupted education for their children, and inhuman treatment. They further want the government to give relief services in terms of food, clothing, cash, employment and counselling. A commission of inquiry, they say, should be put in place to investigate the inhuman treatment and discrimination as a historical injustice and subsequently offer remedies. They are also demanding the eviction perpetrators be punished, and a good reason be given as to why they were evicted only for the forestland to be reallocated. “The government should explain, as a matter of public concern, why this country’s wealth, in terms of forests, wildlife and infrastructure, was destroyed or used by individuals as the government watched, yet it was mandated to take care of public property,” their petition adds. Finally, they want the government to provide any other remedy to the situation to restore the dignity, respect and inclusiveness of the evictees as members of this nation. Lawyer David Makara told the Star he has been hired by the evictees to pursue their quest for justice against an “illegal eviction they went through, and I am acting in accordance with those instructions”. Makara said theirs is a “classic issue of historical injustice” that has been covered by several commissions, including the 2004 Ndung’u Commission of Inquiry report. “I believe their rights were violated. I don’t understand how a government can evict a group of people only to allocate their land to a different community. They must get relief. We will see to the end of this,” he said. The group plans to hold a meeting at Nyahururu Stadium this month, where leaders from Laikipia and other government agencies will be invited.