Paul Put has resigned as the Harambee Stars head coach citing personal reasons, Football Kenya Federation has said. In a statement, FKF said Paul's resignation is a set back to the national team which is preparing for the 2019 AFCON qualifiers. "In light of the foregoing, FKF has already begun the process of finding a suitable replacement to fill Paul's position, with Stanley Okumbi taking charge of the national team in the interim period," read part of the statement. Read; Put charged up: Harambee Stars coach confident they will go beyond semi-finals "Lastly, the Federation thanks, Paul for his professional service and utmost commitment during his tenure with the Harambee Stars, this even as we wish him well in his future endeavours," it added. Paul was appointed Harambee Stars head coach in November last year. The 61-year-old Belgium led Gambia and Bukina Faso to Africa Cup of Nations tournament. He also led Jordan to the 2014 World Cup held in Brazil. Paul's resignation comes on the backdrop of his demands to overhaul the technical bench for "professional trainers" to enable him to qualify for major tournaments. “I am trying to improve the standards of football in Kenya so I did my propositions from my Cecafa report on what I think has to be done," Put told journalists on February 7. He said it was up to FKF to make the final decision saying there was a need for improvement in the team. Speaking after the launch of the 2018 World Cup trophy tour in Nairobi, Put added; “The other Kenyan coaches should not think that they are not good enough. It’s just that we are working at a certain level and they’ve to be ready to learn. If you want to qualify for Afcon, you can’t make mistakes, preparations have to be at 200 per cent.” FKF communication officer Barry Otieno said the federation had accepted his proposals that included bringing in five new members to the technical bench.  Also read; Harambee Stars appoints Paul Put as head coach  Click here for the latest political news 