Some Kisumu MCAs have accused Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor of disrespecting and trying to intimidate them. Deputy speaker Erick Agola said Owuor should stop threatening the ward representatives and instead focus on how to better the lives of locals. Agola said the MP has no powers to control them adding that they can only dialogue on issues of development which benefits the electorates and not personal interest. The MP threatened to deal with the MCAs should they fail to toe party lines. Speaking during Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o’s homecoming at Kenyatta Sports Grounds in Kisumu on Thursday, Owuor promised to put them in their rightful place. Nyong’o had been in the US after successful hip replacement surgery. “We are elected leaders just like him and he has no moral authority to bully us. He must respect us if he expects the same,” he said. The deputy speaker was speaking in Nyando subcounty during the burial of the three victims of police brutalityxxxx. Senator Fred Outa was also present. He was accompanied by MCAs Ken Ooko (Ahero), David Arao (Railways), Maurice Ngeta (Awasi-Onjiko), Careen Muga (nominated), Agnes Nyagol (nominated) and Chief Whip Gard Olima. Agola pointed out that Kisumu can only realise development when leaders are united and work together and urged all elected leaders and locals to support Governor Nyong’o to steer county’s development agenda. “We cannot compete with other counties in development with the continued wrangles among elected leaders,” he added. Outa accused cartels trying to cause disharmony between him and Wyong’o and frustrating the county's development agenda. “We are not fighting with the governor. But there is no space for cartels and tenderpreneurs in Nyong’o’s administration with me as the senator,” Outa said. He claimed that the brokers have been sponsoring an MP within the county to separate him and Nyong’o. Outa and Owuor clashed during Nyong’o’s homecoming last week over county leadership. Owuor accused Outa of plotting to take over leadership in the event Nyong’o was “incapacitated”. Outa however accused Owuor of engaging in cheap politics and termed the claims baseless and unfounded. He described him as a “Johnny-come-lately” who opposed Wyong’o’s candidature and now wants to play “holy” to please his masters.