Authoritarianism
at present stalks Kenya like a tiger on the prowl. Since the January 30 event
of NASA Chief Raila Odinga’s “swearing-in”, The Jubilee government seems to
have changed tack, and adopted a surprise strategy, which has kept the
NASA leaders purely guessing at possible government moves, as they serially keep
being caught off-guard. The
recent arrests of the NASA leaders who count as the inner circle of Raila
Odinga is obviously a veiled message being sent to Raila Odinga – that he is
the ultimate target. The
arrest and handling of NASA vocalist Miguna Miguna followed by his ultimate
deportation, events that were preceded by arrest of other NASA leaders,
including Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang’, signaled a deliberate government onslaught to
not only deter the drive of Opposition leaders after the January oath- taking
by Odinga, but also a determination by the government to frustrate, scatter,
and disorient Opposition figures who are the cogs in Raila’s political wheels. There
has been no open attempt to arrest Raila Odinga or James Orengo. Such a step
would twist and turn the whole struggle by unleashing the anger and emotions
among NASA supporters and may herald violent protests and riots in all NASA
strongholds. Arresting Odinga would occasion unimagined political turmoil. It
would also sharpen Odinga’s resolve even further, and heighten the sense of
NASA’s quest for reforms, and degenerate the current political environment
further to a deplorable state that would threaten national peace, security and
prospects of economic growth. The
arrest of NASA leaders, together with the disregard of court orders by the
Inspector General of Police and the DCI chief, have altogether brought to the
fore critical politico-legal issues that have a bearing on the rule of law, the
need to imagine justiciable post-election electoral issues, the urgency of the closure
of hard-fought duels in post-election environments, and the need to preserve
the sanctity of the rule of law. What
both Jubilee and NASA must consciously commit to and guard against is the
possible breakdown of the rule of law, as well as the long-term effects of
antithetical political bile by supporters of the two major political camps in
Kenya. Whether
the Opposition NASA leadership will long withstand the rigours of the
bare-knuckled Jubilee government onslaught remains to be seen. Nonetheless,
these events speak to the incessant challenge of democracy in Africa, and in
Kenya. The writer is a political analyst  Click here for the latest political news 