Kenyan farmers will benefit from a Sh870 million European Union grant that will promote natural methods to fight the Fall armyworm. Scientists at the Kasarani-based International Centre of Insect Physiology and Ecology will manage the grant until 2022. Icipe’s push-pull farming technology, which can be adopted by farmers at no cost, will be a major beneficiary. Icipe researcher Zeyaur Khan says the push-pull entails planting a repellent crop and an attractive trap plant such as nappier grass around the farms. “The napier grass attracts stem-borers and armyworm to lay eggs on it, but it does not allow the larvae to develop on it due to poor nutrition. Very few larvae survive,” he said. Khan spoke at Icipe during the visit of Bernard Rey, the deputy head of Rural Development, Food Security and Nutrition at the EU. Rey said the EU funding would facilitate more research into the push-pull technology. “In the last 10 years the EU has given Icipe about 38 million Euro (approximately Sh4.7 billion) to support various initiatives like the eradication of tsetse flies, push-pull technology and management of various insects,” he said. Icipe said the current grant will also help scientists to study various indigenous insects that are natural enemies of armyworm. It will also help scientists to develop natural pesticides to fight the destructive pest. “Icipe researchers will also advance research on the use of smell-based Fall armyworm traps, which could be useful in timely detection and management of the pest,” Icipe said. Farmers are expected to begin planting for the long rains season next month. Last week, Icipe and the Food and Agriculture Organisation developed a new guide to help farmers fight the armyworm. FAO said the new guide -Integrated management of the Fall armyworm on maize: A guide for Farmer Field Schools in Africa features proven, cost-effective strategies. It is available from agricultural extension workers. The guide recommends intercropping maize with other plants to fight the worm. Farmers in Central America, where the worm originates from, are said to have noticed that when they plant maize together with other crops such as beans, they have less pest attacks.