Aaron Cheruiyot The 1986-born second-term Senator for Kericho is
one of the youngest MPs. He joined Parliament through the March 2016
by-election following the appointment of Charles Keter to the Cabinet. He was
re-elected on the Jubilee ticket for the second term.  Beth Mugo The second-term (Nominated) Jubilee enator was born in July 1939. A
trained teacher, she has served the country in various capacities as an
assistant minister in various dockets. The former MP for Dagoretti is a
relative of President Uhuru Kenyatta  Gladys Wanga The graduate of Jomo Kenyatta University is a
second-term MP, elected as the first Homa Bay Woman Representative in
2013. She served in the PSC in the last Parliament. The ODM stalwart and Raila Odinga foot soldier was
one of the first members to
oppose the cut in salaries and perks gazetted by the Salaries Remuneration Commission.  Ben Momanyi The second-term MP for Borabu on a Wiper ticket holds a Law degree
from Karna University and Bachelor of Commerce degree from Marathwada University in
India. He has served in both the House Business Committee and the
Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. The 46-year-old lawmaker is at the centre or the NASA nomination
wrangles.  George Khaniri Born in July 1972, he is the longest-serving legislator, since he
succeeded his father, Nicodemus Khaniri, as Hamisi MP in 1996, becoming the
youngest MP. The outspoken ANC politician is now serving his
second term as the Vihiga Senator.  Aisha Jumwa The vocal MP for Malindi was first elected to
Parliament in 2013 as the Woman Representative for Kilifi county on an ODM
ticket. Last year, she switched to the constituency and won on the ODM ticket  Naomi Shaban The
Taita Taveta MP entered Parliament in 2002 via Kanu. In 2007, she defended the same and
served as a Cabinet minister in Mwai Kibaki’s second and last term. She first served as minister
of State for Special programmes (2008-2010) and later Gender and Children
Affairs. She joined the TNA party in 2013 and was re-elected to Parliament.