Every year, the wildebeest migration occurs in East Africa. Something about their nature sets this action in motion at a specific time annually. The animals don’t need reminding – they instinctively know what to do and act accordingly without fail. This is the power of instinct. Animals get it. Dogs bark. Fish swim. Birds fly. Every creature is designed with specific instincts that make them what they are. Cats never bark. It’s contrary to the cat’s nature to bark. Also, fish has no incline to climb trees. Each creature responds to the wiring of their unique design. The study and practice of strategy gives the impression that business is all about logic, calculations and systems. But that’s not an accurate picture. Our design plays a role in business. Who we are, our inclines and DNA are also factors. Preferences that come naturally to each person plays a part in our business dealings. Instinct is the inward roadmap that is always right. It’s the inward pull towards certain opportunities, people, places, etc., that we can’t explain. It’s one reason you are drawn to construction and your sister is pulled towards medicine and the different professions fit your respective inward design. Speaking to business people, a common story they share with me is how they would normally succeed when they followed their instincts in making business decisions. They knew deep within that it was the right move and it worked. One told me that every time she went against her instinct, she would fail. She further explained that she has an inner GPS that guides her business decisions. Guess what? We all do. Like the wildebeest migration, something within is pulling you towards certain business opportunities that are right for you. Please note, I’m not being spooky. It’s all about preference based on your design – what each person is designed to prefer. You like purple and you don’t know why – you just do. Your friend loves white – it works for her. Now, this system of preference based on your design, should serve you well in business. This is the idea: do what you love and enjoy. Do something that brings you deep fulfillment and satisfaction because it is in line with your design. That way, you would experience joy in your life’s work. The roadmap or blueprint for success is already within you. It’s been inside your whole life. You have always known what to do. It’s your instinct. Listen to it. It knows the way. Email: etoolbox@theyouideology.com     