Lawyer Miguna Miguna yesterday scored a major goal in his fight against his deportation after a judge ordered his return. He was deported to Canada on February 6. Justice Chacha Mwita ordered the government to issue the self-declared NRM general with travel documents to enable his return from Canada on a day of his choice. Mwita said Miguna is at “liberty to use his Canadian passport to come back”, should the government fail to facilitate his return back to Kenya. Miguna was deported following his arrest at his Runda home days after he “swore in” NASA leader Raila Odinga as the People’s President on January 30. “Thank you Justice Chacha Mwita! Thank you Justice Kimaru! Thank you …..Justice is SUPERIOR to guns!” Miguna tweeted after the court directive. On February 21, Immigration boss Maj Gen (Rtd) Gordon Kihalangwa surrendered the lawyer’s passport to court, but told Justice Luka Kimaru it had been perforated. Miguna lashed out at the Jubilee administration, accusing it of failing to comply with court orders and “defacing my passport”. “I’m satisfied the case before me raises serious constitutional and legal issues,” Mwita ruled. The judge said Miguna’s rights were violated when he was deported, adding that he was not given an opportunity to defend himself. His view is that a person facing deportation should be subjected to court processes before such a decision is reached. The judge said the lawyer should be present to defend himself against allegations raised by the state. He said Miguna’s evidence, including his explanation on whether he renounced his citizenship, cannot be solely advanced through affidavits. Consequently, the judge suspended Interior CS Fred Matiang’i’s declaration that Miguna is not a Kenyan citizen and the cancellation of his passport by the Immigration department. He also ruled that Matiang’i’s Gazette notice declaring the National Resistance Movement a criminal gang will remain suspended, pending hearing of the case. The judge said the Kenya National Commission Human Right will supervise the lawyer’s entry. “The orders should be served in the Standard and the Nation newspapers,” he said. Miguna’s deportation was declared illegal by Justice Kimaru a fortnight ago. The government has since moved to the Court of Appeal to overturn the decision. Miguna has announced his intention to return to Nairobi on March 26, terming it a “memorable day in the history of our liberation struggle”.