The Nairobi-Nakuru highway was blocked for most of the day yesterday, as charcoal transporters in Kwambira, Limuru, demand the arrest of Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. The tyres of more than 200 vehicles were deflated, starting at 7.30am. Protesters fought running battles with the police. They demanded President Uhuru Kenyatta or DP Ruto address them. They said Ngilu should be prosecuted for ordering the burning of a charcoal hauling on February 8. It belonged to one of them. Ngilu denies wrongdoing but has said the trade should be stopped. The county has banned charcoal burning and transport and sand harvesting since 2014. But it is only now being enforced. Businesses remained closed after leaflets circulated in the market and on social media, urging all traders to show solidarity “with one of us”. They said fellow trader’s charcoal lorry was torched in Kanyonyoo, Kitui, after Ngilu ordered a war on charcoal burning and sand harvesting. Ngilu has said no communities are targetted, as the county is only enforcing the Kitui County Charcoal Management Act, 2014. The rioters rejected Kiambu police commander Andiel Nyange’s attempt to address them. “We want the President or his deputy. We’ve heard your advice, boss. We’re not here to destroy anybody’s property but to raise our voice a bit higher,” a rioter told Nyange Reinforcements were sent in the afternoon to help disperse the protesters. Residents engaged police in running battles. Motorists plying the Nairobi-Nakuru highway were caught unawares. Travellers were stranded for many hours. Boda boda riders made a killing, charging Sh100 per passenger “Our vehicle is among those whose tyres were deflated at 7.30am. It’s now 11am and we were travelling to Naivasha for the burial of a relative. We’re in the middle of unmoving vehicles,” James Kimani lamented. The rioters blocked the highway between Kamandura and Rironi and between the junction of the Kamandura-Maai Mahiu road and the Kamandura-Nairobi road. They said they were expressing their anger after David Kariuki’s Mitusbishi FH truck KCC 060P was torched. Kariuki said his lorry was intercepted by Kitui county officials, led by Ngilu, and his driver Joseph Waweru was arrested. He said they had bought charcoal from Tana River and were to sell it in Nairobi. “We don’t buy charcoal from Kitui. We know it was banned. My driver had a movement permit, association permit, county cess permit and a driving licence,” he said. Kwambira garage chairman Peter Ndung’u urged President Uhuru DP Ruto to resolve the problem. “We want the country to know we are affected. We’re peace-loving. We demand respect,” Ndung’u said. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi said Ngilu should be compelled to compensate owner of the torched lorry. She violated procedures on impoundment, he said. Mwathi said Ngilu’s comments were inciteful.