It had been a long day. Tess put on her best dress, something she had not done in a while. Tiff’s dad had done quite a number on her. It had become clear that life owed nobody nothing — not even this senator’s daughter. Her father owned the world, but her pride would not let her ask for help. A woman’s pride is her crown. She puts it down and she would have nothing left to pick it up. After the nasty divorce, it had become apparent that she’d have to tread carefully. Tonight, she needed something to dull the noise in her head. Just like the crown of pride on her head, she was going to embrace the lemon she had been served. Tess is at the bar, the bartender is easy on the eye and she starts having ideas. “I could pick him up.” As her mind wanders, she hears a voice she recognises ordering a round. She looks up and there he is. Walter. They make small talk before he suggests: “Come join us. The whole team is here.” “In a minute, let me make a quick call.” Tess had gone to the club to enjoy the noise “alone”. Perhaps it is time to call Bobo the driver. “Hey.” Before Tess could turn to respond, the hair at the back of her neck reveals just who this person is. “Hey,” she says, clearing her throat and turning to face him. Daniel wanted it all, but was not willing to give the equivalent. “Umm… you.. are here,” she stutters. “Walter…” “Yes, Walter was here.” Tess is struggling to keep the conversation going. She tries to get up, call Bobo, but dialling a speed dial is not as easy. “I could take you home,” he says. There was never a thought as perfect and horrible at the same time. Before she can tell the difference, he picks her up and two things happen. One, how strong can one man be? Two, she is never taking gin at this club again, especially if Walter shows up. Tess passes out and lays her head on Daniel’s chest. A few minutes later, they stop. Daniel swipes the hair off of her face, running his index finger on her cheek. Tess is not sure what is happening, but she plays dead asleep, to which he opens up. “If only we hadn’t let go of each other then, things would be different now. I miss you, even if it is not what you feel. I sat there, in the crowd, and watched you make promises to someone else. I can’t get over that. “You and I have history, but she’s my future.” Tears. They give Tess away. The moon seemed so huge, too much light doing little to hide her eyes, now filled with salty tears. They are in her neighbourhood. The red bottoms and short dress were a good idea, but it all read discomfort. She walks barefoot to her door. He’s following closely in silence. Trying to open a chilled bottle of water, she says, “Thanks for the ride. You can leave now.” He walks closer. “You can leave,” why can’t she open this goddamn bottle. Daniel’s still coming closer. “You should go, seriously.” She turns her face away, because even though she acts like it’s all good, she is fighting back tears that should not fall while he’s still here. He grabs the bottle from her hands, to which she attempts to walk past him and into the adjacent room. Daniel gets a hold of her hand, says nothing but comes closer still. Even though her heart is burning, she knows it is hard to resist him. He tilts his head, and lifts her face with his index finger. “What are you doing?” “Do you want me to stop?” Daniel says. Silence.