The Electrical Consumers Society of Kenya and lawyer Apollo Mboya have moved to court seeking orders to stop the gov- ernment from releasing Sh2.14 trillion of taxpayers’ funds. In affidavits, the parties said the Treasury plans to pay about Sh100 billion annually for 25 years (adding up to about Sh 2.14 Trillion) for 20 private power projects. The group wants Treasury CS Henry Rotich stopped from using the Sh2.14 trillion of taxpayers’ funds for the Public Private Partnership projects, adding only a few private entities will benefit. They said this could lead to the inflation of electricity bills. Mboya and the consumers’ society claimed that on January 19, Rotich released a medium-term budget policy statement outlining how the government aims to “create jobs and transform lives” through the projects. The society said it is unlawful to pass on costs. “The national government did not publish a report on the guarantees that it gave within two months after the end of the financial year as required by Article 213( 2 ) of the Constitution,” the affidavits reads. Section 4( 2 )(b) and (c) of the National Government Guarantee Act states the Treasury CS shall not guarantee the loan of a borrower on behalf of the national government unless the borrower is capable of re- paying the loan, and paying any in- terest or other amount payable. Tea factory Mboya alleged the Ministry of Ener- gy - charged with developing energy resources for national development and ensuring access to electricity - facilitated skewed contracts of “take or pay” with the power companies to the detriment of consumers and taxpayers. The society also claims the CBK, which holds and manages foreign ex- change reserves and is the banker for, adviser to and fiscal agent of the government, is about to facilitate payments in respect of Sh2.14 trillion. The projects to be funded include, Imenti Tea Factory Limited and Pow- er Technology Solution Ltd, which have not got any payments. “The commissioning date for Lake Turkana Wind Power Project was 2014, but the project was completed last September and despite Lake Turkana Wind Power Project not commissioning in the year 2014, it did not pay any fines to the government, yet the taxpayers and electricity consumers are now to make payments to it due to the failure of Ketraco to connect it to the national grid,” Mboya said. Click here for the latest political news