The High Court yesterday extended the order suspending the January night travel ban that was imposed by the National Transport and Safety Authority. The court issued the orders in January after activist Okiya Omtatah filed a case challenging NTSA’s decision to ban night travel on December 31 last year. The NTSA has not, however, filed responses to the petition. It said it was represented in the case by the AG. Justice Chacha Mwita directed the NTSA to file its responses and appear in court for hearing of the petition on April 24. The court further consolidated another two matters, which were also challenging the NTSA’s decision regarding the Omtatah case. In the petition, Omtatah argued that the ban was contrary to Article 232-1-(f) of the Constitution, which requires provision of timely, accurate information to the public. He said the ban was vague and violates Articles 28 and 29-1 that protect human dignity and freedom and security of individuals. Omtatah also said the ban is discriminatory, as it “only affects long-distance travellers”. It breaches Article 27 of the Constitution, he said. NTSA director general Francis Mejja banned night travel for all matatus after an accident in Salgaa claimed 36 lives. In a joint statement with the Traffic Police department on New Year’s Eve, he said the rise in road accidents led to the decision. There was a public uproar after the ban was implemented. Transport sector players said they were losing millions of shillings. Travellers also complained. Last month, the government promised it would lift the ban after thorough fleet management regulations are set. It said sector players would issue a comprehensive report on compliance with additional traffic rules. The Transport PS told the Parliamentary Committee on Transport that the lift of the ban would be enforced selectively and progressively. “We’ll lift the night travel on PSVs ban in two weeks. This will, however, be done selectively to operators who have complied with the regulations. We should get daily reports on performance of all vehicles,” PS Paul Maringa told the committee chaired by Pokot South MP David Pkosing. He said they urged matatu operators to increase their daytime travels to cover night operations.