Nominees and applicants for some top public offices are now being subjected to public interviews, thanks to the requirements of the celebrated 2010 Constitution. Chapter Six of the Constitution provides inter alia for the selection of public officers on the basis of personal integrity, competence and suitability. Obviously, these qualities can best be brought to the fore in independent interview processes carried out by technically competent and legitimate entities with sufficient public trust. The Public Service Commission, the Judicial Service Commission and Parliament play a big role in the vetting of candidates who offer themselves for consideration to hold senior public offices. Save for the Public Service Commission vetting of candidates contending for Principal Secretary positions, in 2013 the vetting committees elected to carry out the interviews in public. Without a doubt, public interviews assure objectivity and wider acceptability of the outcomes as the ‘best’ candidates are picked with the attestation of the public. Yet, this style of interviews may end in undesired consequences if not properly managed. Timidity and good performance in work are not mutually exclusive. Cases abound of managers whose work performance is described only in superlative terms, yet they exhibit introversion and shyness. Such timid persons may perform disastrously in public interviews, particularly as they are aware that their audience is the larger Kenyan populace and not just the immediate interview panel. Of course, the situation would be much worse for a shy person infront of 20-plus interviewers, who display the impression that they effusively relish interrogating their quandary! To be sure, it is expected a candidate would not necessarily be impeccably knowledgeable in any and every theme of discussion in interviews. Within the confines of closed-door interviews, steady candidates would extricate themselves from situations where they are required to discuss matters in which they may not be entirely competent. It is never as easy under the public glare. A candidate may fumble and stumble in such discussions to the extent they may be considered inadequate, when the reality is that they are giving in to the burden of mass scrutiny. Public vetting is a fertile ground for the temptation to play to the gallery by those members of the panel who are not properly grounded in acknowledged principles and practices of professional interviews. One cannot realistically rule out the existence of an attention-seeking member or two in such hugely constituted panels as have been known to vet candidates for public offices. In attempts to win popular favour with the public, such panelists would invariably deny justice to candidates as they torment them into subjugation in the quest to exhibit their own prowess in subject matters. Never mind it was the candidate who is required to display dexterity in an area. An interview provides an opportunity for one to sell their skills and knowledge. Experts will advise you to be concise and stay relevant to the pertinent issues, to articulate all that will demonstrate your suitability. In publicly conducted interviews, it may be difficult to stay on course. Some candidates may not ward off the temptation to impress the public. They expand the interviewer-interviewee relationship by intimately ‘inviting’ the public into the fold and fashioning responses for the benefit of the latter. In this manner, they find themselves off the substance of the issue at hand. So, does vetting in public necessarily assure Kenyans that the most suitable candidates will be appointed to top public service offices? I would be hesitant to affirm that. It would offer skewed advantage to extroverts and those with the gift of the gab. The reticent and soft-spoken may miss out for their failure to face the public and profess their suitability, even if they’re competent and suitable. Therein we may overlook individuals suited to hold office. I would go the public service way any day.