Luhya elders led by COTU boss Francis Atwoli on Sunday resolved that Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi remains the community's spokesperson. This was reached in a consultative meeting hosted by Atwoli at his home in Khwisero. The unionist retracted his earlier comment of withdrawing his support for Musalia. "You all can remember what I said after the January 30 event. That was my opinion. After talking with other elders, we have agreed that my brother here still has our support," Atwoli said. "We have faith in Mudavadi's leadership... the elders can withdraw their support after assembling the over 1 million Kenyans." Atwoli asked Mudavadi to continue stirring the community forward politically. Philip Masinde, chairman of the Luhya council of elders, asked the leaders present to respect each other and unite in efforts to develop Western. Busia Senator Amos Wako applauded the Western leaders for speaking in one voice and supporting one of their own. "As leaders, we will have to first put the interest of the people of Western Kenya and the nation at large instead of infighting," Wako said. Mudavadi, who was present reiterated his commitment to the NASA coalition's ideals. He welcomed criticism from other people, including Atwoli, terming it a constructive and democratic right. "We are people who value criticism and my elder brother (Atwoli) was right to do so as its the one thing that makes us human," Mudavadi said. He said the main reason for the formation of the coalition remains to bring change in the country and uphold democracy. Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang'ula (FORD-Kenya) skipped Raila Odinga's swearing in as "the people president". Mudavadi was heavily criticised by a section of Luhya leaders after he skipped the Uhuru Park event. They accused him of abandoning community which installed him kingpin on December 31, 2016 at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega. Mudavadi further took a swipe at people saying that the NASA coalition is on the verge of collapse. "Let me remind our detractors that the coalition is an entity listed at the Registrar of Political Parties." "We must revisit the core formation of NASA putting in mind the coalition is a legal entity that can be broken easily," Mudavadi said. The ANC party leader said the coalition won't relent on the call for electoral justice as well as freedom of the judiciary and the media. Mudavadi promised to state his next political move soon adding that the 2022 election should be different from what happened in 2017." Other leaders present were MP Ayub Savula (Lugari), Tindi Mwale (Butere), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Omboko Milemba (Emuhaya), and Bunyasi Sakwa (Nambale). The leaders later held a public rally at Mulwanda Market in Khwisero. They promised to work and forge forward with developing the region together. Click here for the latest political news