Senator Kipchumba Murkomen on Thursday found himself in hot soup after claiming that CJ David Maraga was interfering with the independence of the judiciary. He was referring to the statement issued by Maraga on Wednesday regarding state officials, and institutions that flout court orders. The CJ said disobeying court orders is inimical to the rule of law. He spoke after IG Joseph Boinnet and DCI George Kinoti defied orders to release lawyer Miguna Miguna from police custody. Read: All Kenyans must follow court orders, Maraga says after Miguna drama But the Elgeyo Marakwet senator took to twitter saying the Chief Justice should not interfere with a matter that is 'alive in court'. "On what legal basis does a CJ issue a press statement on a matter which is alive in court? Isn’t the CJ interfering with Judicial independence? can’t he wait for his time to hear the matter in SCORK?" He added: "Judges speak from the bench through rulings and judgement not press statements." With 240 re-tweets and 646 likes, Murkomen's post elicited mixed reactions from his followers and critics alike. "You're lucky that Twitter has granted you a platform to address the CJ. In SCORK when the CJ speaks from the bench you would be struggling to stay awake among spectators," @ErickFwaya said. @itsnyakoecaleb said: "You lack a tacit legal mind to question CJ @dkmaraga perspective. Your despotic regime will crumble someday." "@kipmurkomen each time I digest your careless utterances, I gravitate to question your law background. After a keen watch of your KTN interview, i can ink the inferences,"@mogirejason said. @MigaiAkech said: "What you are saying is crap of the stinkiest variety. The CJ wears two hats, president of the the supreme court and administrative head of the judiciary. His statement, although tepid, is rightfully made in the latter context." "A man behind a keyboard is more dangerous than a soldier in the battlefield," @slimmey_tev said. @Paperboyrocks said: "So, when a CS messes up the President should keep mum. Lawyers should be reading huge books and appearing in court and not 280 characters in social media." "Wait even you Murkomen a junior from just the other day thinks you can interpret the law better that the CJ? Or rather you already think that you’re above the law? You support the Despots. Quite unfortunate," @IvetaLemo said. @HayangaKelvin said: "You can’t talk in court but out here you really pretend to know the law pretty well hmm it’s true little knowledge is really dangerous." The apex court president said courts are temples of justice and places of refuge for those seeking protection, and must never be despoiled through acts of physical transgressions or blatant disregard of their pronouncements. Also read: No two ways about it: Courts must be obeyed Click here for the latest political news   