Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards will be hoping to make it to the first round of the respective Caf Champions League and Confederations Cup when they play the return leg matches away this weekend. Gor will be in Malabo, Equatorial Guinea to face Leones Vegetarianos in Africa’s premier club tournament while Leopards are in Madagascar where they have a date with Fosa Juniors. The two teams had threatened ti pull out of the competitions before the government came to their aid. Gor will be taking a 2-0 lead to West Africa while Ingwe has a huge task as they failed to capitalise on home advantage to draw 1-1 at Bukhungu about 10 days ago. The 16 time Kenyan Premier League champions have in the past flopped massively at this stage and will be seeking to rewrite the history books by progressing this time round. The on-form K’Ogalo are yet to lose in 2018 having crushed all their opponents thus far and their resilience will be tested by the West African side, who will be enjoying home advantage and support. Gor were barely troubled by Vegetarianos at home scoring a goal in either half Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Gor will miss the services of talisman Jacques Tuyisenge who did not travel after picking a knee injury while on a Kenyan Premier League duty against Zoo Kericho last week. In his absence Kerr is likely to pair the evergreen Meddie Kagere and Ivory Coast import Ephreim Guikhan upfront. To protect their lead, coach Dalyan Kerr might be forced to employ a defensive approach where experienced Godfrey Walusimbi is likely to assume his defensive duties at the left,relegating Wesley Onguso to the bench. In absence of Karim Nzigiyimana, Wellington Ochieng will dictate the right side of defence while Harun Shakava and Joash Onyango will partner at the heart of the defence. Boniface Oluoch’s experience makes him the perfect choice to man the posts. Kerr is set to summon Ernest Wendo and Humphrey Mieno as the holding midfielders while George Odhiambo and Kevin Omondi will work on the flanks. Should Gor overcome the hosts, they will meet either ASAC Concorde of Mauritius or Tunisian giants Esperance. The two played to a 1-1 draw at Mauritius and face off in Tunis in the return match today. Leopards will be fighting for a win or a high scoring draw in Madagascar. Robert Matano’s side will be without Erick Bekoe, Abdallah Salim and Prince Arkoh who did not travel with the team.