Lamu MCAs led by the County
Assembly Deputy Speaker Sheikh Abdalla Baabadi on Wednesday protested against
the ongoing Sh2 trillion Lamu Port-South Sudan- Ethiopia-Transport (Lapsset)
project, saying it has not benefited the locals. The ambitious Vision 2030
project, which was launched by the retired former President Mwai Kibaki in
March 2012, will consist of major infrastructural projects, among them the 32-berth
Lamu Port. The Lamu Port is expected
to start operation in 2020. However, the 10 elected
MCAs and the eight nominated others, are now planning major demonstrations starting
next week to push the national government to consider locals in the employment
opportunities, trainings and bursaries and full compensation of locals affected
by the project. The MCAs said the locals have
been left out of the project, adding that “outsiders” are being brought to work
on the ongoing construction works and those expected to work in the offices once
the Lamu port kicks off its operation. Baabadi said the chairperson
position, which is held by Ambassador Francis Muthaura, should have been a reserve
of the Lamu locals. “There is no sense of ownership
of that project. We know it’s a national government project, but it is
happening in Lamu, therefore the locals deserve to be given priority,” said
Baabadi. Flanked by other MCAs during
a press conference at Bliss Hotel Mombasa, Baabadi said the Lamu locals deserve
70 per cent consideration when it comes to employment in the multi-trillion
project. He said Lamu voted overwhelmingly
for Jubilee government on August 8 general election, but they will not shy away
from talking about the project for the best of the locals. “In the previous County
Assembly, Lapsset was discussed and the national government was given
conditions, but the Lapsset management has decided not to consider these issues,”
he said. Among the condition given was
that; 70 per cent of employment opportunities should go to locals, 1,000 students
should be trained before being absorbed in the project and compensation of both
the fishermen and those whose land will be taken. “As we speak, only 300
people have been trained since the first batch in 2014. We now want more than
2,000 locals to be trained. Two, we have not been compensated. We ask them to
follow what was agreed during the public participation or else we get into the streets,”
said the Deputy Speaker. The County Assembly majority
leader Yahya Ahmed Shee said the demonstration will begin next week. “The Lamu locals are ready.
We are meeting here in Mombasa to deliberate on some issues and when we go back
to Lamu next week, you will also see us in the streets demonstrating,” he said. Anab Hajj, a woman elected
MCA in Hindi ward, where the Lappset project is located, said they are always
caught by surprise when government officials come to visit  the project. “We are always caught unaware
that a PS or senior government officials is in my area. I was elected to represent
my people, therefore I need to be informed of whatever happens in my region,” she
said. She said Hindi residents
are supposed to be among the first beneficiary of the Lapsset project, but they
have completely been left out. End………….