It had been a long day. She would be home alone on a Sunday with Tiff. Daniel called. The thought of him showing up had crossed Tess’s mind, but she let it slide. She had learnt not to expect much from Daniel. So when he called, she didn’t know what to make of it. “Hi.” “Hallo.” “I’m at the hospital entrance.” She felt her throat run dry. But deep down, she was a bit excited. “Umm… okay.” “Are you gonna give me directions to the house or what?” So that escalated fast. Tess was a bit confused, but he was there. She couldn’t ask him to go away. That would be rude. “There’s a stalled yellow truck on the other side of the road. Walk past it and towards the Coca-Cola kiosk. My house is the third gate after the kiosk.” She was overtrying to look good. Tiff was some piece of work. If the house was clean, and the baby was fed, that was all that mattered. He walked in and went straight to the kitchen. Daniel put down the groceries and started preparing a quick meal. The salutations exchanged were pretty normal. And usual. Honestly, Tess was just glad she wasn’t alone. Spending time with Tiff was an exciting thought. But when it came to actually doing it, she got exhausted after 30 minutes. She had a newfound appreciation for the nanny! The food was done. The baby was asleep. They could finally sit down, catch a breath. “You know, you didn’t even say hi to me…” She looked at him and smiled. Walked right to where he was sitting and took his hands. Tess signalled him to stand up and she opened up her arms to receive his wide frame. The hug felt warm. It was slowly starting to leave the friendzone and venture into uncharted waters. Tess pulled away and tried to leave. He sat down and held onto her hand. Daniel had not been clear about what he wanted and where they stood. For all she knew, he had a significant other in his life. Tess wanted nothing more than to be the only one, but the way her life was set up, only a fraction of him was available. She hated this reality. “Please don’t go,” he said. Tess looked at him, and though she did not say it out loud, all that played in her mind was, “I don’t think I can be happy in my life without you.” Daniel went on, “Come here.” She walked back, and sat next to him. She is looking at him, and he is looking at her lips. He’s coming closer, and she can feel his hand on her face. “Tess ... Tess,” Daniel whispers. His breath is warm. She wants to taste him. Daniel was almost close enough, when Tiff woke up and started calling, “Mommy”.