The Kiambu government has disconnected water supply to Maai Mahiu, citing illegal connections.  The county government on Wednesday said Kiambu residents must be first consulted to decide how much water should be supplied to neighbouring counties. Maai Mahiu is in Nakuru county. The water had been connected by the Water Resources Management Authority last year from Magina Forest in Kijabe ward. It was disconnected, following residents outcry that they were not consulted about the connection. Kijabe MCA Nyutu Wamwere yesterday said Warma was mandated to design the connection, but not connect water. He said residents complained to the county and to the Limuru Water and Sewerage Company. They said water has been supplied to other areas, while they are not connected. “Their complaints started before the August election. Investigations were launched after the county government was formed,” Wamwere said. “The government and the LWSC looked into the matter and realised no public participation was carried out before the water was connected. The exercise was illegal.” He was accompanied by Water executive David Kuria, officials from the LWSC and officials from the national and county governments after disconnecting the pipes on Wednesday. Residents praised the government for disconnecting the water. “We want public participation so we can agree to sell water elsewhere after our homes are connected. We do not want to buy water any longer,” Magina resident Simon Kamau said. Kamau said residents of Magina, Bathi and parts of Maingi villages should be connection. Wamwere said there should only be one company run by the government. “We have a bill to consolidate all water projects and companies within the county and form one board to run it. We aim to ending problems,” he said. On Wednesday, the Kiambu county government merged all 12 water companies into one called the Kiambu County Water and Sewerage Company. It has acquired all assets and liabilities of the former companies. Residents earlier had opposed the move, saying it was ill-informed and too hasty. Governor Ferdinand Waititu said those against the merger are cartels.