Arresting
those who administered the oath to NASA leader Raila Odinga as the “People’s President”
will discourage other Kenyans who intend to break the law and walk away scot-free in
future. As
a country, we are in our eighth year since the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution
and we don’t want Kenya to be thrown to the dogs, where there such cases of
people involving themselves in treasonable acts lead. If
tolerated, other leaders might also rise up claiming to be “People’s” Senators,
Governors, MPs, MCAs. Those people involved in the ceremony should be charged
so as to set a precedent for this nation in regard to how such matters should
be handled in future. Some
of the orders issued by our courts are a setback, and I think it is the same Constitution
shooting ourselves in our feet. As
a country, we may require to tame, in a way, errant people who rush for relief
by acquiring court orders. It is their right to get those court orders, but, as
we move forward, we need to look into such matters when making constitutional
reforms. People
involved in such treasonable acts should not be allowed to pay Sh50,000 and
walk away scot-free. There are many other individuals who have shielded
themselves from full prosecution by acquiring court orders. His
co-principals defied his call for the oath-taking ceremony. Raila has allowed
himself to be a captive of his supporters. Where
did he go after the swearing-in? Who was his deputy? Who was his First Lady?
Who were the Chief Registrar and Chief Justice? These
people must face the full wrath of the law for assuming roles that they do not
hold as enshrined in the Constitution. Ruaraka
MP Tom Kajwang’ abused the privileges and rights accorded to him by the
Constitution when he was admitted to the Bar. Raila
wants the government to arrest him so that there can be anarchy in this
country. We will be keen to see how the Judiciary handles this matter. President
Uhuru Kenyatta was sworn-in, but Raila swore himself, a move that was
treasonable. We
are only waiting for him to tell his supporters which country they belong to,
because Kenya has only one President who was elected on October 26 last year. I
firmly condemn what the former Prime Minister did on January 30. The writer is the Laikipia
Woman Representative