Two senior Health ministry employees are by June 30 this year required to refund Sh6 million they allegedly stole from a tuberculosis programme. The programme is funded by the Global Fund. The ministry said the two, who have not been named, have already returned Sh1.84 million and must personally pay back the balance by the end of June. The alleged theft took place in 2016. They are from the National Tuberculosis, Leprosy and Lung Disease Programme, a unit within the ministry. The officials had created fictitious anti-tuberculosis workshops, which they financed using money from the Global Fund, a Geneva-based donor that pays for medicines and funds activities to fight TB, HIV and malaria in Kenya. The alleged activities were a quarterly review meeting and another training event, which could not be verified. Details of the ‘small-scale’ fraud were released last week by the Global Fund’s Office of the Inspector General. “The OIG investigation also found that 17 people received per diems valued at Sh583,000 (US$5,744 ), although they had not attended any activities,” the investigation report says. The report is titled ‘Fraudulent Practices in NTLDP Activities’. The Global Fund investigators said the two officials also took advantage of actual meetings by adding fictitious names and contacts to the lists of participants. “The [mobile] numbers were either wrong, not in service, not picked up or the person refused to speak to OIG,” says the report. Global Fund inspector general Mouhamadou Diagne said inspectors began the probe last year, following a tip-off from an anonymous whistleblower. He said although little money was lost, it was wrong. “Wrongdoing, in all its forms, is a threat to the Global Fund’s mission to end the Aids, tuberculosis and malaria epidemics. It corrodes public health systems and facilitates human rights abuses, ultimately stunting the quality and quantity of interventions needed to save lives,” Diagne says in the report. Ministry officials in the NTLDP programme declined to comment, but one of them said the two had been moved to other departments. The fraud did not affect Kenya’s recent request for more money from the Global Fund.