Supporters of Lamu West politician Stanley Muthama demonstrated on Friday following the Malindi High Court's nullification of his election. Hundreds condemned the ruling saying the constituency largely voted for Muthama on August 8, 2017 because of his efforts to untie them and his unique leadership skills. They waved placards with different messages and called for justice through song on the streets of Mpeketoni town. The protesters marched from CDF offices and disrupted traffic flow. Their signs read 'We shall revisit,’ 'Hatutaki mgawanyiko, Muthama ni kiongozi wa kabila zote (We don’t want division, Muthama is the leader of all tribes)', ‘Hatuogopi debe, kura tunazo, Muthama juu (We don’t fear the ballot, we have the votes, Muthama on top)' and 'Muthama tosha Lamu West (Muthama is enough in Lamu west)'. Others read ‘Haki kwa watu wa Lamu Mashariki (Justice for Lamu West people)‘, Uchaguzi uliisha 8/8/2017, haya mengine sisi hapana tambua (Elections ended on August 8, 2017, We don’t recognise anything else), ‘My MP my choice, Muthama’, and 'Mwenye wivu ajinyonge, Muthama Tosha’ (Whoever is jealous should commit suicide, Muthama is enough).  Supporters of politician Stanley Muthama demonstrate against the nullification of his election as Lamu West Member of Parliament, February 23, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI The people said they were dissatisfied with Judge Weldon Kori's judgement on February 21 and that Muthama will win by a bigger margin should by-elections take place. The court found that the election was marred by massive irregularities. and ordered that the IEBC and the politician pay Sh3 million in costs. Muthama said he will appeal the ruling. More on this: [VIDEO] Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama's election nullified Also read: Stanley Muthama to appeal nullification of his win as Lamu West MP Portester Pius Mutie claimed forces in the constituency influenced the judgment. “We know the problem we are facing is from outside Lamu West. Some people are misleading the President by telling him Muthama has no support on the ground." Ibrahim Mohamed said Muthama showed true leadership during his short term as he united the Bajuni, Kikuyus, Kambas, the Boni Sanye and others. “I am not from his community but for the past 40 years, we have not had a leader who has been able to unite all the people. We want justice. We do not want our votes taken away." Mohamed said that in the six months Muthama was in power, Lamu West witnessed change in development programmes. Some leaders in the area are therefore jealous, he said, adding: “If they are jealous in only five months, what will they be if Muthama completes his five-year term? We need justice."  Supporters of politician Stanley Muthama demonstrate against the nullification of his election as Lamu West Member of Parliament, February 23, 2018. /ALPHONCE GARI Junior Mutuwote, a resident of Mikivalley, claimed the judge denied Muthama his victory yet a votes scrutiny and recount found he won. "We shall revisit this. Our rights will stand. A few leaders ganged up to victimise our MP. Lamu people are now crying for justice." Grace Wachuka said some politicians were perpetrating tribalism so President Uhuru Kenyatta should not to listen to those opposed to Muthama's leadership. Isaac Roba asked the President to intervene and ensure justice. Ebra Madobe, from the Bargoni minority community, noted she was the first one from her community to work in a constituency office. Click here for the latest political news