Did Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti shoot himself in the foot after yesterday's High Court ruling that nullified his election? It caught many by surprise when the governor wrote a hard-hitting statement linking the ruling to successful moves by his opponents to influence the Judiciary. A senior lawyer took to Twitter, questioning the wisdom of the governor in accusing the Judiciary of “incompetence and corruption” when he has planned to file an appeal against the ruling. “It would be unwise to criticise the same court in which you plan to seek refuge,” said the lawyer. ***** A female MP from Nyanza was overheard venting on how public office can be very frustrating at times. The vocal and hilarious MP described in detail how she received a call from a young man who claimed to have an “important” message for her. Thinking that he could be her constituent, she willingly accepted to listen to this story. But the young man, whom the MP said looks the age of her grandchild, had other ideas. He was in love. Without batting an eye, the man told the MP in flowery language that he wanted her any day, any time. The legislator now says corporal punishment is not a bad idea after all. Her friends however think otherwise. They think the young man is looking for a generous “sponsor”. ***** Kiambu Road commuters are having a hard time joining the Thika Superhighway from Muthaiga in the morning. Our mole tells us that the cops controlling traffic purposely wait for VIPs to give orders using their walkie-talkies to allow vehicles from Kiambu and its environs to access the Superhighway. “You know they collude with those motorbike Traffic officers so that they can build up traffic on Kiambu Road to push other drivers to overlap so that they can collect bribes. That is why we will always have traffic when Traffic police officers are on Kiambu Road.” On many instances, the bodyguards of VIPs have alighted to order the officers to allow the vehicles to access the Superhighway. ***** It has been said that elected leaders are true mirrors of their constituents, or is it that constituents get the leaders they deserve? Well, our mole in Parliament tells Corridors that one MP recently shocked colleagues during a parliamentary committee when his phone rang. One perturbed Member termed the ringtone “weird” because it had filthy contents of last year's political rhetoric. Corridors heard that the MP, who was deeply embarrassed, was caught unawares during the committee meeting with senior government officials. He fumbled to mute it when Members became agitated.