I came across a rant on Facebook the other day… Okay, in the interest of fairness, let’s not call it a rant, but rather a whining complaint, or better yet, an expression of concern, sounds better. Whatever you want to call it, a complaint, or a concern, it was about how unfair life is when it comes to pursuing a dream. The post was from a lady who, seemingly thinking out loud, expressed her frustration at how hard it is making a living as a painter, which is her passion. She has a job, she wrote, that enables her to make ends meet. The problem is, the job is vaguely related to painting, which I gathered meant it has very little to do with painting. And so, naturally, this lady hates the job because even though it pays the bills, it’s not what she wants to be doing with her life. At some point her words become poignant when she starts sounding like she’s trying to convince herself that maybe one day she’ll start to enjoy this job unrelated to painting, grow to love it even, eventually. This lady’s situation — dream indefinitely deferred, if not all together cancelled — is not unusual, especially for people whose dreams lie in the arts. Hoping that you’ll make a good living painting, writing, or singing means that you will inevitably run smack into a brick wall. This brick wall is the reality that comfortably making ends meet, and chasing a career in the arts, are inexplicably incompatible. When you think of writing, painting, or singing, it is best to also think poor. I once heard this said about the inextricability of art and poverty, I’ve never forgotten the words: It is our souls that make us artists, and therefore, it is our souls that make us poor. I can tell you that perseverance and hard work will get you your dreams and rent, but I’m only good at lying when I’m writing fiction, or an advert. Of course, these admirable qualities help with the hard knocks, self-doubt, and the hunger pangs, but they don’t come with a pension. There are those, a few, who do get to live out their dreams, indulging in their artistic passions and earning a comfortable living from it, but there is a reason they are few, that reason is, again, the brick wall. “Brick walls are there for a reason. Brick walls are not there to keep us out. Brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly we want something. Because brick walls are there to stop the other people who don’t want it bad enough.” — Randy Pausch. The ability to imagine, create, bring thoughts to life and make a living from it is such a privilege that it often comes at a steep price. Pain and suffering is involved, payment in blood is required, metaphorically, of course. And thus, the brick wall, to make sure that only those willing to pay the price, who want it bad enough, make it to the other side. I’ll say that again using uplifting words. God doesn’t give us dreams we can afford. He’s not checking our bank account… He’s checking out faith. That dream, do you want it, even if you can’t afford it?