The state has withdrawn Governors Amason Kingi and Hassan Joho’s security details. The Kilifi county assembly speaker’s bodyguards too have been recalled. Police officers manning Kingi’s official residence in Kilifi and bodyguards were withdrawn on Wednesday. “Four security officers were withdrawn and by yesterday evening he remained with just one guard. We really do not know why they were withdrawn because we were not given any explanation,” county communications director Mapenzi Chivila said. Joho took part in opposition leader Raila Odinga’s swearing-in as People’s President on Tuesday. Kingi and the speaker did not. Yesterday Joho arrived at Tudor Subcounty Hospital to commission a Sh14 million maternity ward and youth centre. He drove up in a Toyota Crown, creating confusion among event organisers and the inspectorate. He was expected to arrive in his official Nissan Patrol V8. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said Joho was forced to use a simple private vehicle because he does not have any armed security officers. “I want to ask you [Joho] not to ask for the security back. They can take away everything they want, but we will not be cowed. We shall stand with our people,”he said. Nassir said in the struggle for democracy a few people have to pay dearly. “There are a few people who will be sacrificed, but they will be remembered in history,” he said. The MP arrived at the venue in a Toyota Vitz, but he still has state security of an armed bodyguard. Joho moves around with at least five armed police officers. “His security was withdrawn while we were in Nairobi for Raila’s swearing-in ceremony in Uhuru Park,” one of Joho’s aides told the Star. Youths lose jobs Joho’s security was first withdrawn in March 2016 during the Malindi by-election. This was after Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa accused the governor of using the officers to intimidate voters. ODM’s Willy Mtengo won the seat against Jubilee’s Philip Charo, angering the Jubilee government, which had spent a fortune on the by-election. Joho was instrumental to Mtengo’s victory. The officers were later reinstated. Almost year later, in January 2017, the government withdrew Joho’s security again after he clashed with President Uhuru Kenyatta during the official opening of a storm water drainage project in Bamburi. Joho yesterday said he is not intimidated. “I will not call a press conference to complain about what is happening. We all know that life is God-given, wealth is God-given and leadership is also God-given,” he said. Joho said he will not shy away from criticising the Jubilee government for its failures. “I was told you that the Jubilee government wants to transfer port services to Naivasha, some people laughed it off,” he said. “Now we see it happening and our youth in clearing and forwarding are losing jobs because of this.” Last year Kingi’s bodyguards were withdrawn alongside Joho’s but were later reinstated. The government said it was reorganising VIP security, but failed to explain why only the two governors were targeted. High-risk job The two were perceived the greatest obstacles to Uhuru’s plan to make inroads into the Coast in his hunt for votes for his reelection. Kilifi speaker Jimmy Kahindi confirmed that his bodyguard had also been withdrawn. “All 47 county assembly speakers have a bodyguard each. Mine was ordered to report back to his station and I was not told why he was being withdrawn. I think the reason is obvious,” he said. He was not at Raila’s swearing-in. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya condemned the withdrawal of the security and accused the government of intimidating leaders from the opposition. Baya said political leaders are entitled to security from the state and it’s not a privilege. “It is a right for political leaders to have security. Politics is a high-risk job and when you withdraw my security it means you have a total disregard for the people who elected me,” he said. “The government should stop this blanket condemnation. They should find a better way of handling political problems, not withdrawing security from political leaders.”