Fools rush in where Angels fear to tread. —Alexander Pope Jubilee secretary general, Cabinet Secretary and presidential plenipotentiary Raphael Tuju, waded into perilous waters when he shot off a cheeky stinging missive to Chief Justice David Maraga. The letter borders on contempt and, hence, the question as to whether Tuju is acting alone or in concert with persons known or unknown. Kenyans are fully cognisant of the fact that President Uhuru Kenyatta had threatened to “revisit” the issue of the Judiciary once the electoral contest had been settled. Prior to that the President had poured unprecedented vitriol on the person of the Chief Justice and the Supreme Court of Kenya! Is this the promised revisit and is Tuju the President’s hatchet man? Kenyans are waiting with bated breath for a judicial response (if any). The Jubilee Party has a penchant for playing dangerous games during perilous times. They appear hell-bent on intimidating the Judiciary, the Opposition, the press, civil society and the electoral commission at every possible opportunity. They are obsessed with “state capture” and neo-dictatorship. It is almost as if they are blind to events taking place around them and in the rest of Africa. Former Tanzanian President, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, once gave some valuable advice to former President Daniel Moi during the clamour for multiparty democracy. An exasperated Moi asked Nyerere the way forward and Mwalimu responded, “If you see your neighbour being shaved by force, wet your beard, otherwise you will be in for a rough shave!” That piece of advice saved Moi a lot of pain and saw Kenya return to multiparty democracy without struggle or bloodshed. Kenyans cannot help wondering who advises Uhuru? The recent removal or resignation of legal advisers Attorney General Githu Muigai, Solicitor General Njee Muturi, constitutional adviser Abdikadir Mohammed and, to a lesser extent, Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko appear to herald a new beginning and change of policy. Not so! The man by all appearances seems to be listening to members of his father’s court, a bunch of old schoolers completely out of touch with present-day reality. The current reality is one of African elected leaders being forced out of office for various reasons, including poor governance and corruption. African strongmen Zimbabwe’s Robert Mugabe, South Africa’s Jacob Zuma and Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn have fallen in quick succession like ninepins! Opoosition leader Raila Odinga is sitting in the wings, hoping to cause or engineer a similar scenario and all Jubilee can do is rub the Judiciary’s nose in the mud through unnecessary intimidation. Have Jubilee embarked on a path of self-destruction? The American, British and European Union ambassadors have issued warnings on government high-handedness, which have been ignored with contempt! The old adage that “those whom the gods wish to destroy they first make mad’ still holds true. Jubilee appears to have lost it, much to the consternation of their own supporters. They first captured Parliament by emasculating it after acquiring a simple majority and can now do anything and everything by manipulating pliant opposition members to secure whatever they please. Their guns are now trained on the Judiciary to do their bidding after which the Executive will be in full control to rule by edicts and decree. Democracy is therefore under siege and unless courageous Kenyans stand up to stem the tide we are going back to the dark ages. Jubilee has disobeyed court orders many times and is now busy arresting opposition members at will. Even their own dissident Alfred Keter has been held without bail for more than 48 hours at Muthaiga police station. What saddens many is how Uhuru has metamorphosed from “the friendly neighbour next door to a tyrant”. John Dahlberg-Acton was correct when he made the famous statement, “Power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely!” What happened to the smiling, happy-go-lucky Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta we knew?