As we drive on the Maralal-Loosuk road towards Lkunono in Samburu Central subcounty, we stop several times to allow hundreds of livestock to cross. The cattle, goats and sheep are driven by young herders, too poor to buy shorts; they just wear a piece of cloth. “Here, if you own no cows, you are considered poor. Wealth is determined by the number of livestock you own,” 50-year-old resident Mathew Lesiyampe said. Lesiyampe, a former athlete and ex-army officer, has given up on pastoralism to grow vegetables. He is minting millions from growing cabbages, kale, garlic, tomatoes and capsicum on three acres. Lesiyampe’s success story is testament to the fact that arid Samburu can be food secure if residents embark on serious irrigated agriculture. He started farming in May last year. This is his second season. In the May-December season he made more than Sh5 million, but he had to pay off a loan of Sh2.8 million. This year, with no loan to repay, he will earn much more. On Sunday Lesiyampe said he used to own more than 100 head of cattle, plus goats and sheep. He gave them to his neighbours in 2015 as he needed to make room for farming. He has 15 acres and has dedicated three to horticulture. Lesiyampe immediately started looking for information on how to start farming. In 2015, he visited the Wambugu Agricultural Training Centre in Nyeri to learn about his new venture. TURNING THE DESERT GREEN When he was a country runner representating Kenya, Lesiyampe visited agricultural shows. In Kenya he visited shows in Eldoret, Nakuru and Nyeri. “That’s where I got the passion for horticulture,” he said. There were many problems to becoming a successful small farmer. He had his savings but lack of money was the biggest challenge. Lesiyampe needed constant flow of water for irrigation. “I had to dig a borehole. The cost was Sh2.5 million, which I didn’t have,” he said. So Lesiyampe entered into an agreement with a water drilling company, and agreed to repay the cost in two installments. The borehole is solar-powered. He bought 15 solar panels. “I now have plenty of fresh water to achieve my farming dream,” he said. But he uses water carefully through drip irrigation and doesn’t waste any. He has divided his three cultivated acres into sections. “Next week, I will harvest more than 5,000 cabbages. They will give me close to Sh300,000,” Lesiyampe said. Tomatoes will be ready next month and based on last year’s market, he should make almost Sh200,000. Lesiyampe said he has made Sh40,000 from the first crop of capsicum and he is expecting to make Sh100,000 in his next harvest. He said kale and spinach have the biggest market in the region and he expects to make more than Sh1 million from his first harvest. Samburu Agriculture executive Vincent Learaman urged Samburu residents to follow Lesiyampe’s example so they can earn a good income from their farms. NO FUTURE IN HERDING Pastoralism is mainly hurt by cattle rustling and drought. The population is also increasing, stretching the available resources. Learaman said residents ought to make wise decisions between livestock keeping and arable farming. “Our county has become too small compared to the population of animals we have,” he said. “If you come from areas that support farming, it’s better to try and grow some. If you still love cattle, try keeping dairy cattle.” Lesiyampe has advised Samburu residents to stop raising too many animals, many of them scrawny and underweight, that do not add value to their lives. He has five farmhands. They say rats are a major problem because they enter the farm in search of water and destroy pipes used for drip irrigation. “Rats don’t get water in the forest during this dry season so they enter our farms and eat and destroy the pipes,” one employee said. It’s expensive to repair the pipes as they are only available in Nyahururu. A night guard says hungry elephants leave the Lkunono Forest and invade the farm at night in search of fresh green food, especially cabbages. “That’s why you see heaps of stones at some corners and fire points. We use stones and fire to keep them away. We don’t sleep at all,” the guard said. Still, contending with rats and fending off elephants are a small price to pay for a successful farm. 