Kuppet wants the government to
withdraw all teachers from terror-prone counties in North Eastern following the killing of their three colleagues in Wajir on Friday. The three were killed by suspected al Shabaab militants who raided Qarsa Primary School at dawn. One teacher sustained serious injuries. Police said the terrorists targeted
non-local teachers in the school compound. Read: Suspected al Shabaab kill four at Wajir school Kuppet Secretary General Akelo Misori on Sunday said government has for long remained silent "as teachers are being butchered". Misori asked the Teachers Service Commission to withdraw the teachers until the region is safe. "TSC only issued a feeble statement on the issue -  a very sad affair.
Up to now, the Interior Cabinet Secretary has not offered any
explanation on the issue of attacks on teachers." "As we welcome the new CS, we are alarmed
that the government continues to ignore the security of teachers in
North Eastern parts of Kenya," Misori said at a press
conference in Nairobi. The SG demanded that the Ministry of Interior to guarantee security by establishing police posts in every school in the region. Misori demanded compensation for the teachers and their families. "We must now discuss elaborate and sustainable security measures for our schools particularly in Northern Kenya," Misori said. Teachers in Wajir, Mandera, and Garissa counties face religious animosity and ethnic intolerance. In
January 2015, more than 2000 teachers camped at the TSC and KNUT
headquarters after demanding transfers from Mandera, Wajir and Garissa
counties. They abandoned work stations in the three counties
citing targeted killings, rapes and hostilities for being from non-local
communities and demanded to be posted elsewhere. Teachers say most of the inhumane acts are visited on them by learners, their relatives and local community. They are also targeted for revenge whenever security forces carry out security operations in the region. The tutors are perceived to be teaching Christianity and referred to as slaves or against the community. Read: Schools becoming soft target of al Shabaab attacks, warns Amina Mohamed Click here for the latest political news