Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and John Magufuli have ordered their Ministers to quickly resolve "small vexing" differences between Kenya and Tanzania. The two countries have been at odds over trade and bilateral issues. Tanzania has taken some drastic actions but Magufuli has affirmed that he and Uhuru do not have any problems. “We have small issues relating to businesses and trade between Kenya and Tanzania. We want Kenya and Tanzanian Ministers to meet urgently and resolve these issues," he said on Friday. "These are small matters that should be resolved quickly. As leaders, we don’t have a problem. We are okay." The two met at the Lake Victoria Resort of Munyonyo, on the outskirts of Uganda's capital Kampala, on the margins of a summit of the East African Community. In January,Tanzanian customs officials were accused of harassing Kenyan travellers and traders at the Isibania border post in Migori county. Traders who spoke to the Star said clearing goods at the Tanzania customs offices was frustrating and that police officers were demanding bribes. Tanzania has also auctioned cows belonging to Kenyans over territorial differences and burned chicks saying they had bird flu. More on this: Kenyans complain of harassment by Tanzania custom officials Also read: Tanzania should end petty attitude towards Kenya Echoing Magufuli's sentiments, Uhuru said: "These small matters require urgent attention." Uhuru said Cabinet Secretaries Peter Munya (East African Community and Northern Corridor Development) and Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs) will deal with the issues. He asked them to pick a date for the meeting with their Tanzanian counterparts. The Presidents agreed that the growth of one of their countries guarantees that of the other. They also expressed commitment to regional cooperation, and especially to smoothen people-to-people relations, seen as critical to promoting booming trade. The  leaders will attend the 19th EAC Heads of State Summit later today in the city. On Thursday, Uhuru urged EAC leaders to work closely to ensure bureaucratic red tape does not impede development targets. He said governments should facilitate the private sector instead of curtailing it. “I have a problem with some bureaucrats who frustrate investors by taking more time approving projects,” Uhuru said. Uhuru spoke in Entebbe, Uganda, at the opening of the Joint Retreat of the East Africa Community Heads of State. The President underscored public-private partnership as a key component of regional development. Major progress has been made in infrastructure in Kenya through public-private partnership, Uhuru said. To achieve his Big Four agenda, Uhuru needs the private sector and encourages public-private partnerships. Treasury cannot do it alone. More on this: Promote private investment for growth, EAC heads urged Click here for the latest political news 