The Budget and Appropriation Committee of the National Assembly has recommended the interest rate capping law be reviewed and modified. In a report tabled in Parliament, the committee chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa noted the law has affected the monetary policy. “It is therefore our considered opinion that the interest rate capping law can be reviewed and modified in a way that addresses the negative outcomes particularly with regard to its impact on monetary policy,” the committee said in the report. MPs in July last year passed the Bill capping the interest rates at four per cent above the indicative Central Bank Rate. The Bill, sponsored by Kiambu MP Jude Njomo, also pegs the minimum interest rate payable on deposits held in interest earning account at 70 per cent of the CBR . There has been an outcry from bankers calling on Parliament to review the law and just last week, Treasury CS Henry Rotich promised investors in London the government will start the process of reviewing the law. Read:Ruto tells off IMF, World Bank over review of interest cap law The committee has also raised concerns the country is facing pressure from the budget deficit and debt accumulation warning that should the government fail to put the expenditure in check, the fiscal deficit could worsen in the medium term. “It should be noted the government’s appetite for borrowing is increasingly reducing access to credit by the private sector,” the committee warned. “We wish to underline the fact borrowing in itself is not bad, but how we use the borrowed resources matters. If borrowing isn’t towards creating new assets, then that borrowing isn’t useful to the economy”. Last week, the International Monetary Fund warned Kenya risks losing investors and its economic gains if the government does not contain the runaway debt burden. Senior IMF representatives for Kenya Jan Mikkelsen, Ben Clements and Nike Hobdari told the Budget and Appropriations Committee the debt, which hit Sh4.6 trillion in November last year, would be unmanageable if the borrowing trend continues. “We have been much concerned about the flow of new debts and the size of fiscal deficit. It will reach a point where the debt is not manageable especially when the deficit continues to rise,” Mikkelsen said. Read:Banks should give rate cap law time      