The Commission of Administrative Justice has asked the government and its agencies to stop the culture of disobeying court orders. In a statement on Tuesday, the Commission said the recent developments relating to disobedience of court orders and crackdown of persons alleged to have breached the law is worrying. "In a clear demonstration of gross abuse of power, the government not only disregarded the court orders but also, in some instances, used police to evade and block service (of the orders)," The Commission said. Some of the cases that the government and its agencies have refused to comply orders include restoration of transmission for three TV stations, KTN, NTV and Citizen that was issued last week. The state was ordered to restore the signals on Thursday last week but only two stations, NTV and KTV were switched yesterday. Citizen TV is not back on air. More on this: NTV and KTN back on air as Omtatah files contempt suit The government also disregarded orders to release lawyer Miguna Miguna on Friday. Miguna was arraigned today in Kijiado. Read: Miguna charged in Kajiado court, refuses to take plea The Commission said, "These acts constitute improper conduct and demonstrate impunity, undermine the constitution and democratic governance, and sets a bad precedent." "A government that is implementing one of the most progressive constitutions in the World acts in total disregard of its fundamental tenets," it aid. It added; If unchecked, this impunity within the National Government may permeate to other facets of governance. Last week, Communications Authority director general Francis Wangusi was also denied access to his office even after the court lifted his suspension by the CA board. The Agency maintained that the rule of law underpins our constitutional dispensation and that in Kenya all persons are bound to respect, uphold and defend the constitution. The commission demands the CS Information, Communication and Technology, CS Interior and Coordination of National Government, Attorney General, Inspector General Police, Director of Public Prosecutions and Board of the Communication Authority of Kenya comply with the relevant court orders. Public officers are held liable for their actions and that the government should strictly adhere to the rule of law when conducting its operations. Also read: Wangusi back to work on Tuesday as board solves 'other issues'