Olympic Games javelin silver medallist and 2015 world champion Julius Yego is among global super stars who will grace the 2018 Athletix Grand Prix Series in South Africa. Yego has confirmed his attendance for the third and final Athletix Grand Prix Meeting planned for March 22 at the Dal Josaphat Stadium in Paarl, according to a statement from Athletics South Africa. “We are used to competing in big meetings in Europe, United States and Asia and when my agent (Jukka Harkonen) informed me of the meeting in Paarl, I immediately jumped at the chance. To compete on the African continent is important for me because it helps in growing our sport,” said Yego. After winning the world javelin title with a throw of 92.72m in 2015 in Beijing, China and a silver in Rio at the 2016 Olympic Games, Yego inspired a new generation of javelin throwers in Kenya among them Ita Nao Leshan, who represented Kenya at the World Under-18 Championships in Nairobi last year. “Winning the world title and Olympic silver has seen a bigger interest in javelin throwing in Kenya. We are limited with resources, but more and more kids are now attempting their hand at the javelin. We are known globally as middle and long distance champions, but with my medals and the two 400m hurdlers (Nicholas Bett and Boniface Mucheru), youngsters are beginning to realise that not everyone is cut out to be a long distance athlete and that they can also make an impact on the world stage in other athletics disciplines.” Yego shot to fame when it was discovered that he had used YouTube to coach himself in the early stages of his career. “I saw Andreas Thorkildsen and Jan Zelezny on YouTube throwing the javelin. I am a big guy, not cut out to be a long distance runner, so when I saw them throw, it inspired me.” Zelezny holds the world record of 98.48m and he is a three-time world and Olympic champion. Thorkildsen has twice won Olympic gold. It was Yego’s win at the All-Africa Games in Maputo in 2011 that caught the eye of Finnish athlete manager Härkönen, who arranged for him to attend the IAAF accredited training centre in Kuortane, Finland which turned Yego into the global superstar he is now. “My technique was very raw. You can’t learn technique in such a technical event on YouTube. You need someone to watch you and correct what you are doing. So the two months that I spent in Finland made a big difference to my career.” So much so that he improved his best from 78.34m in 2011 to 81.81m at the London Olympics in 2012. Three years later, he won the world title with the fifth best ever throw in the world (92.72m). Yego had a difficult 2017, struggling with injury. “I am now healthy and injury free, so I am excited for what 2018 may offer and my journey starts on March 22 in Paarl.”