The most powerful man in the world is President Donald Trump. He is, however, not God and his powers are limited. He cannot be allowed to take from Africans the dignity and respect that God gave them and every other human being. By insulting Africans and Haitians, and through them all Blacks, President Trump used the most woeful word I have heard used to insult people — shithole. Tarred with this one brush, all Africans of whatever status have a moral responsibility to defend themselves. If they sit back, this insult will stick. But the people to defend Africans against President Trump are not the powerless and voiceless masses. Although the masses should defend themselves, African leaders should mobilise mass demonstrations against Trump in every African capital city and town. Unfortunately, they just ended a meeting of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, without uttering a single word against President Trump in defense of the Blacks. This is was a great betrayal. Africans must realise that Trump did not just insult those Africans trying to enter the US. He insulted all African countries, every government, leaders and the entire Black race whether in America, Africa, Brazil, Europe or here in Africa. For any African to think otherwise is to cheat oneself. Even if we were to say only one group of Africans was insulted, let us remember when individuals such as Adolf Hitler and now Trump insult some groups of weak people, it extends to wherever they are. They must, therefore, defend themselves from wherever they are. As Pastor Martin Niemöller said: First they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out — Because I was not a socialist. Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out — Because I was not a trade unionist. Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out— Because I was not a Jew. Then they came for me—and there was no one left to speak for me. Ultimately, Trump is not just attacking the Blacks but the entire humanity, including Americans for whom he claims to speak. Entire humanity must therefore, come together and defend the Blacks. But the most annoying tragedy is that African leaders have refused to defend their people, either because Trump is too powerful for them or out of fear of losing the American aid. Shamefully only two countries, Botswana and Ghana, summoned American ambassadors to protest against the horrible insult. We should learn from the Palestinians. When Trump announced he would move the moved the American embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, they protested and demonstrated even when they knew they would eventually lose the aid they get from America, as they surely did. When I was in America as a student, I remember us protesting against the American War in Vietnam and economic investments of the US government, private companies and universities in the remaining Portuguese colonies of Mozambique, Angola and Guinea Bissau. African, African-American and progressive White students attended huge rallies in Washington, DC, to protest against the last vestiges of European colonialism. There is nothing of the sort against Trump. Maybe many Africans are today too weak to fight. Others might even think these insults will disappear if Trump is not provoked to insult more. The truth, however, is that, as there have been few challenges to Trump’s insults, there will be more from Trump or some other racist White leader, convinced what is not challenged or rejected is accepted as right and proper. Yes, we have our weaknesses and we have our poverty but we have our humanity and dignity and we deserve our respect as human beings. If people demonstrate love for animals, why will they not respect Africans whom they treat no better than pets? However poor, Africans are not pests. Indeed Whites in Europe and America owe Africans the wealth they have. Should truth be told, America was developed by labour of African slaves. To get this truth, let people read Walter Rodney’s book, How Europe Underdeveloped Africa. ­­   