Maragua residents want the government's assurance that the Sh1.2 billion landfill in the area will not have adverse environmental effects. They made the call at Gikono area where the landfill is being constructed by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service Improvement Project (NASMIP). They also want the National Environment Management Authority to release the impact assessment report to help them make a decision on the project. The locals noted that they are not against the project and only want assurance that it will not contaminate ground water. Read: Murang'a protests lack of consultation in Nairobi waste landfill project The landfill will be used to treat 500 tonnes of waste from Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Murang’a, and Kiambu counties daily. Muhiu Nguku, a resident, said majority of them will only support the project, which will be set up in a 50-acre piece of land, if it is approved by environmental experts. He also asked NAMSIP to organise visits to existing landfill facilities to help them understand the project better. "I want to be assured that the borehole I use in my home will not be polluted by waste from the landfill. We have fears this facility may end up soiling our source of water." Susan Wanjiru accused some local leaders, led by Senator Irungu Kang’ata, of fighting the project before fully understanding it. Kang’ata has publicly opposed the project saying "it is an insult for Murang’a to provide water to Nairobi only to be rewarded with a waste management project". Lawrence Mwangi, a NASMIP official, said all concerns raised by the people were taken into consideration and that the project is safe. "The technology is designed to ensure water from the facility does not permeate into surrounding areas," Mwangi said. He added the facility will only be used for 10 years after which it will be converted into a forest. Area MP Mary Njoroge called on local leaders to desist from politicising the project without sufficient information on how will be run. "I am asking leaders to stop causing panic among locals and wait until they are taken through the public participation process before fighting the project." She said NAMSIP is planning to sponsor visits of local leaders to landfill projects in other countries. Click here for the latest political news 