Commonwealth countries have resolved to include climate change in their curriculum from Early Childhood Education to institutions of higher learning. In a declaration of the 20th Commonwealth Conference of Education Ministers in Nadi, Fiji, on Friday, the ministers said they will double efforts to educate present and future generations on climate change. Speaking during the conference, Education CS Amina Mohamed said rising seas and extreme weather changes are the greatest threats facing humanity. Read: Kenya needs more scholarships – CS Mohamed, who also chaired the conference, said there was need to promote climate awareness, including through mass education beyond the classroom. The CS called for stronger engagement with the private sector and other industry players. The conference also called for increased awareness of green and blue technologies and emerging alternative for clean energy sources. The ministers said progress has been made in expanding access to education. They stressed the need to improve quality of education to ensure learners master both numeracy and literacy skills. Member states also agreed to focus on training, recruitment and motivation of teachers. The ministers said there was need to tackle emerging challenges like employment and ensure learners get the best start in education. The conference called on governments to invest at least four to six per cent of their GDP or between 15-20 per cent of government spending in education. The meeting in Fiji also resolved to have Kenya host the next conference in 2021. The conference brings together education ministers from all the 52 Commonwealth countries to discuss key issues affecting the sector. Mohammed appreciated the decision to have Kenya host the next conference. “I wish to confirm, with gratitude and humility, that Kenya accepts the honour of hosting the 21st CCEM. Kenya looks forward to hosting the 21st Conference of Commonwealth Education Ministers in 2021,” Mohamed said. “We will work with the Commonwealth Secretariat to ensure that the logistical, administrative and other preparations are in place for a successful conference."  Click here for the latest political news