Over 40 professional return to Muthaiga Golf Club this morning for the fourth qualifier of the Kenya Open set for next month. The event will be played on a four-leg stroke play format. Among the big names are Dismas Indiza, David Wakhu, Kopan Timber, Frank Matilo and Nelson Mudanyi among others. The event will offer the local pros an opportunity to have a feel of the Kenya Open venue. Meanwhile, it was a dream come for Halima Mwende as she overcame a strong field of 145 golfers to win the third leg of the ongoing Barclays Tour at Nakuru Golf Club Course over the weekend. Playing off handicap 30, Mwende posted her maiden career victory to earn a rightful slot on the 50th Kenya Open Pro Am set for next month. With an inspiring score of 23 in the first nine and 21 in the back nine, Mwende fired 44 stableford points to achieve the feat amidst searing heat and dry fairways occasioned by the current dry season. And the home golfer did it in bravado to up her handicap to 27. “It’s quite a good feeling to win in Nakuru. I’m looking forward to my Kenya Open debut. I am going to work really hard to ensure I represent my club well at the Kenya Open,” said Mwende. This year’s Kenya Open will be curtain raised by Pro-Am events on March 20-21 at the Muthaiga Golf club sponsored by the Kenya Open Golf Limited and the Barclays Bank of Kenya respectively with the action proper which marks the 50th anniversary slated to run from March 22-25. Mwende becomes the second lady golfer after Christine Ocholla to win a round of the tour. Andrew Chelogoi of Eldoret, who also played in Nakuru won the first leg of the tour late last year. Handicap 6 golfer Njuguna Njoka posted a total of 49 points to emerge the men’s winner. Victor Kanayura, playing off handicap 24, fired 18 in the first nine and 21 in the back nine to finish as the men’s runners up with a total stableford score of 39. Victor beat Kenya Open tournament director Patrick Obath on countback. Marian Wanjiku playing off handicap 16 shot 19 in the first nine and 20 in the second nine to emerge the lady’s winner on 39. Josephine Kaime playing off handicap 9 was the lady’s runner up on 37 (20+17) points. First nine honors went to Soulyman Soro on 24 with the second nine winner being Enock Ogembo. Longest drive best man was none other than  Soy member of Parliament Hon Caleb Kostany. Esther Karuga was the ladies longest driver winner with Eleanor Wambui racking up ‘nearest to the pin’ honors . The junior winner on a score of 30 was handicap 19/Trevor Njigi. John Kamas on a score of 38 (20+18) was the gross winner while Barvlays Chief Staff Officers was Yusuf Omari was the staff winner. Tom Chirchir was the guest winner on a score of 38. Best effort (piga mingi)/award went to Anthony Mwenda on 9points whilst Ali Wasim, Munyao Sila, Tom Chirchir and K Juma won the team prize.    