Kisumu county government is set to undertake a Sh 100 million poultry farming project as part of its initiative of ensuring food sufficiency. The program, ‘Kisumu Poultry Enterprise’ will be implemented courtesy of the Memorandum of Understanding reached between the county government, the Kenya Industrial Estates Limited, the Lake Basin Development Authority and the Nile Poultry Farms. The County executive member for Business, Energy and Industry Alice Moraa said Kenya Industrial Estates Limited has set aside Sh 100 million as soft loan for the program. Moraa said the implementation of the program would ease the shortage of poultry products in Kisumu. Currently, she said the county was unable to meet the demand for such products, leading to much reliance on the importation from the neighboring country of Uganda. She noted that the county has a demand of 750, 000 eggs and 23, 000 broilers daily, which its local production alone cannot serve. Moraa pointed out that the program targets to increase the local production of eggs and broilers to 1 million each every month. She added that they will deal with strictly individual farmers and not groups so that they are able to enhance their levels of commitment to the enterprise as a core business. “The objective of this program is to transform lives through establishment of the Kisumu County Integrated Poultry Production, Managament and Marketing system,”Moraa added. The initiative which is slated for launching today (Friday) by Govenor Anyang Nyong’o will involve training and empowerment of poultry farmers and seeks to boost poultry production in order to meet the local demand for poultry products. In the program at least hundred individual farmers the seven sub-counties within the county will undergo training every month and be given soft loans to boost their production. In total 1, 200 farmers will be trained and empowered in one year. The farmers will be trained by Nile Poultry Farms and property equipped with technology to enable them produce chicken successfully for meat and eggs. The program will implemented through the county department of Trade, Energy and Industry in collaboration with that of Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock and the other partners. End…