The government will set up a corridor along the Galana-Kulalu Irrigation Scheme in Tana River to enable residents to access watering points for their livestock, DP William Ruto has said. Some 250,000 acres of the 1.75million acres would be used for the project, he said. Following establishment of the irrigation project, residents have had problems watering their animals. Speaking at his Harambee Annex office in Nairobi, Ruto addressed leaders from Tana River and officials from the ministries of Environment, Wildlife, Lands, Agriculture and Devolution. The government values peaceful coexistence among communities and is committed to resolving issues threatening harmonious relations, he said. Related : 5,500 acres of Galana Kulalu project to be used for commercial growing Ruto said solutions to human-wildlife conflicts are being sought. Present were Cabinet Secretaries Mwangi Kiunjuri (Agriculture), Keriako Tobiko (Environment) and Farida Karoney (Lands). Others were MPs Ali Wario (Bura), Juma Wario (Tana River) and Rehema Hassan (Woman MP). “The creation of a livestock corridor in Tana River will allow access to watering points and pasture as a key intervention in maintaining tranquility and enable the residents to live harmoniously with the surrounding communities,” Ruto said. The government seeks to strike a balance on land used for production, considering the interests of communities, Ruto said. The Deputy President said a demarcation exercise will be carried out so residents stick to the areas earmarked for them, without encroaching on areas meant for irrigation.  Gulana-Kulau to succeed The ministry of Lands will create a boundary between irrigation and watering points. The government is doing everything possible to ensure the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project succeeds and guarantees food security, Ruto said. “In our efforts to ensure the successful implementation of the Big Four projects — among them food security — we are determined to ensure success of this irrigation project,” he said. That’s why the government wants to solve issues undermining implementation, Ruto added. He said a 26-kilometre water canal under construction in Bura constituency would put more land under irrigation. It is to be completed within eight months. Read : Lawmakers want Galana project halted and new terms negotiated with state The legislators thanked the government for moving swiftly to solve pastoralists’ problems. They said a livestock corridor will greatly help the people, mostly pastoralists, access water. “We are grateful for what the government is doing to relieve residents’ suffering while looking for water for livestock following the establishment of the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project,” MP Hassan said. Tobiko said being a pastoralist, he understands the plight of residents. “We’ll work with all stakeholders to address the problem and come up with lasting solutions,” he said. Click here for the latest political news