The petition challenging the election of Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu is expected to be decided on March 2. Lady Justice Pauline Nyamweya set the date after receiving final submissions from parties on Friday. The case was filed by former county boss Julius Malombe citing violence, bribery, and campaigns beyond IEBC stipulated hours. Malombe also avers that his agents were blocked from accessing polling stations, situations he says affected the outcome. Read: Ngilu bribed voters to win Kitui seat, Malombe tells court The lawyers are Kioko Kilukumi (for Ngilu), Appollo Muinde and Moses Kurgat (for Malombe); Elias Masika and Dorothy Mageto (IEBC). They were asked to file written submissions by Friday after concluding the scrutiny and recount of votes cast in the August 8 poll. In their final submission, Kilukumi and Masika urged the judge to dismiss the petition with costs. They argued ex-Governor Malombe has failed to prove the allegations levelled against the incumbent. Kilukumi said the petitioner, who was a distant third after the final vote count, did not provide any evidence which the court can rely on. The governor has told the court she has satisfactorily answered each of the allegations. She has denied the claims of violence, bribery, campaigns during the polling day, and blocking agents. Lawyers Masika and Mageto, acting for the IEBC, have said the elections in Kitui were conducted in accordance with the law. "The scrutiny exercise and the recount exercise bears witness that the elections were conducted in free and fair environment." Masika argued that after the recount, Ngilu's votes increased and that "Forms37A were authentic." He asked the judge to dismiss the case with costs to the respondents. On their part, Muinde and Kurgat said they have proved the petition against Ngilu to the required standards. The claimed that the county boss colluded with IEBC officials to rig the elections in her favour. They urged the judge to consider all the evidence Malombe has tendered and find Ngilu was declared winner wrongly then nullify her election with costs. Read: Ngilu denies bribing voters, says she won the poll fairly Click here for latest political news 