This day 10 years ago, former UN secretary general Kofi Annan led the signing of the mediation agreement between President Mwai Kibaki and opposition leader Raila Odinga after the 2007 fraudulent elections. In December 2007, following a bitterly disputed presidential election, violence rippled across Kenya, exposing entrenched ethnic divisions fuelled by social and economic exclusion, corruption and winner-takes-all politics. The agreement ensured stability in the short term and promised, in the long term, reforms to address the underlying causes of the post-election violence. The Kenya National Dialogue and Reconciliation, as the negotiations were referred to, gave rise to the National Dialogue and Reconciliation Agreement and the National Accord and Reconciliation Act 2008. The four main agenda in the National Accord, famously known as Agenda Four, identified the core source of the conflict and offered framework to build a better and peaceful state. Ten years later, the disputed August 8, 2017, presidential election and the repeat October 26 poll have only aggravated the situation. Ethnic stereotyping, intolerance and discrimination are occurring at an unprecedented scale; communities are subjected to violence because of how they voted. Ethnic identities have sharpened because they have come to embody other divisions, including grievances over unequal access to political power and uneven regional development. The preamble of the National Accord and Reconciliation Act 2008 reads, “This agreement is designed to create an environment conducive to such a partnership and to build mutual trust and confidence. It is not about creating positions that reward individuals. It seeks to enable Kenya’s political leaders to look beyond partisan considerations with a view to promoting the greater interests of the nation as a whole. It provides the means to implement a coherent and far-reaching reform agenda, to address the fundamental root causes of recurrent conflict, and to create a better, more secure, more prosperous Kenya for all.” It is such a shame that this has only been a fantasy; those in power chose and still choose to be blind to the truth. The country’s quench for sustainable peace, stability and justice through the rule of law and respect for human rights remains in limbo. Divisions and intolerance have tremendously increased. Kenya needs to recognise and address the underlying structural causes of tensions and instability, which are deepening, for long-term peace, justice and rule of law. Inclusivity, non-polarisation, and non-discrimination, though they seem farfetched, are nonetheless achievable only if those in power would follow the rules of democracy, uphold the Constitution and choose the state above all else. The precarious state of the country shows that it is not possible to create new institutions or reform an entrenched political culture with the stroke of a pen. It involves much resilience and determination, imaginative leadership and collective resolve. Moments of progress have been followed by moments of serious regression. This should be distressful and eye-opening to Kenyans as the country’s democracy is in an ignominious state. We should not keep quiet. Holding those in power accountable and demanding inclusion, transparency and respect for the rule of law is every citizen's right and responsibility. Political conflict in Kenya is driven essentially by competition for political power and its benefits. This struggle relies on mobilising ethnic identity and decades later, even with a new Constitution, this is still the case. Africa Peer Review of Kenya 28 concluded in 2006 that, among the “major factors that have stoked the fires of dissension in the country are marginalisation of the regions as well as regional imbalances, competition for resources and access to them, and the mobilisation of ethnic identities in political and economic power struggles”. The APRM warned that Kenya was likely to face serious challenges unless it took concrete steps to resolve these underlying problems. Unfortunately, despite introduction of devolution and a new institutional system, the situation has not changed significantly. The inability, or unwillingness, of political leaders to break with the colonial practice of divide and rule is the country’s gravest weakness. Poor political leadership has been the central issue, rather than the colonial legacy per se. The Kibaki-Raila deal was more on sharing positions and not mainly on resolving the issues that scarred the country after the elections. The last five years under President Uhuru Kenyatta have only worsened the situation. Kenya is dangerously hurting. It is on the edge with emerging authoritarianism rule. Until democratic rule of law, national cohesion and genuine inclusion are put at the core of progression, the country will remain deeply divided and in perpetual conflict.  