Title: Money Mondays Artist: Vanessa Mdee Genre: Afro pop Release: January 29  There are a couple of ways to tell the story of Vanessa Mdee's ascension from a gifted hopeful to being in the A-List ranks. The thing is, Tanzania seems to be doing a pretty fantastic job with producing world-class stars, who the Kenyan audience can't seem to get enough of. Well, the songstress was in the country earlier this week to promote her debut album, "Money Mondays", in a series of successful shows. It's a 17-track
full-length LP that kicks off with an intro that seems to be asking a set
of thought-provoking, romance-related questions that the audience
should be thinking about while listening to the project. It’s as if
from this minimalist intro, Vanessa is giving a hint of what she
is about on the project. Mr P joins
effort with Vanessa on Kisela, a narrative of a struggling
relationship between two lovebirds. Don’t You Know provides
R&B fans with something influenced by a more contemporary sound to listen to, and the experience
is made even more captivating by the presence of Tahpha. One of the
album’s lead singles, the club-destined Cash Madame, is
followed by the hip hop tune Pumzi ya Mwisho, where for the
first time ever, we get to experience a brief rap presentation by the
Tanzanian beauty, who does it alongside top African spitters Cassper
Nyovest and Joh Makini. Mohombi features
on the pleasantly rounded tune Kwangu Njo, creating an
impressive and catchy piece. Included in the album are some of
her biggest tunes: Nobody, featuring KO, and Juu, featuring
Jux. Also her album is made up of other stellar guest appearances from Radio and Weasel, Gnako, Reekado Banks, Maua Sama and Tommy Flavour. “Money Mondays”
is quite a strategic release and a brilliant way to begin the new year.
It is a strong effort, which highlights the artiste’s ability to
transcend genres and try a different sound. She exhibits such great
vocal prowess and it’s easy to pick out certain authentic
qualities. However, any
discerning listener will confirm that all she does on this
effort is play safe. The project is quite diverse but there’s
nothing uniquely experimental about it. She simply does what is the
norm; what other artistes are doing. But despite it all, it is the kind of attempt to leave her fans wanting more.  Star ratings: 3 out of 5