Two people have died and 32 others hospitalised following an outbreak of a disease that is suspected to be cholera in Nyaga village, Gatanga in Murang’a county. The two died as they were being rushed to Thika Level Five Hospital. Kiambu Health executive Joseph Murega said 32 patients including five children were rushed to the hospital. Fourteen of them had been admitted by last evening. The patients had diarrhoea and were vomiting. “We have already set up an isolation unit where they are being screened and treated,” Murega said. Read: Four Murang'a towns under surveillance to prevent cholera It was not yet clear whether the patients were suffering from cholera. “Diarrhea and vomiting are usually symptoms of cholera but it’s yet to be ascertained. Diarrhea causes other complications to patients especially the elderly and children like kidney and cardiac problems. We have a team attending to all patients,” Murega said. Kiambu and Murang’a have formed an inter-county surveillance team to monitor the outbreak. Murega asked Nyaga residents who have exhibited the symptoms to limit their movement to control the spread of the disease. “They should also take preventive measures like boiling water and adhering to proper hygiene including washing hands after using toilets,” Murega said. Related: Murang’a keeps eye on four towns over cholera alert Murega was with health chief officer Andrew Toro and the hospital's medical superintendant Dr Patrick Nyaga. They said they will seek help from AMREF and Kenya Red Cross if they are overwhelmed. Residents who spoke to the star said that the problem could have arisen from consumption of contaminated water from River Gathwariga. They said a carcass of a dog had been dumped into the river, although residents continue to drink the water. “The decomposing carcass was dumped there two weeks ago. it could be the cause because people upstream are not affected," John Gachuma said. Another resident Ruth Njeri said that she suspected that the problem has been brought about by cases of residents washing their clothes, bathing, washing motorbikes and vehicles in the river. The locals decried that they have been facing hurdles in accessing clean water from domestic consumption since water pipes were destroyed by a contractor who’s constructing the Nyaga-Kiunyu road. “The pipes should be restored like tomorrow. We have been forced to use water from the river that can be easily contaminated because the pipes were destroyed and no one is bothering to restore them,” said resident Mary Wairimu. Gatanga MP Joseph Ngugi who visited the victims said damaged pipes will be re-installed to enable residents access clean water. “It’s unfortunate that we have lost two lives because of a water related matter. The government should ensure that Gatanga residents get enough clean water for domestic consumption,” Nduati said. He said that if the state won’t have provided water to locals especially in Kihumbu-ini area he will in the next financial year o He promised to drill a borehole at Nyaga Secondary School to ensure that is enough water for residents.  Click here for the latest political news