Kenya Defence Forces yesterday contradicted its decision to limit female recruits to eight per cent in the ongoing recruitment. This follows a litany of complainants after recruitment teams turned away many women in many centres. Even though KDF spokesman David Obonyo said the military was committed to  meet the gender rule and doesn’t discriminate, Vice chief of defence forces Lieutenant General Joseph Kasaon justified the move to lock out women. Read: KDF denies bias against women in recruits lockout, cites operational strength "Once the ladies are recruited, they undergo the same training as men, are posted to do the same job as men and we try to have in that grouping where they are going to work in a platoon or company, you ensure that it is a mixture of both men and women but we must have a balanced group where they will be able to do a specific job,"  Obonyo said adding they were equal opportunity employers who don't segregate. Kasaon on Monday however said women will comprise between seven and eight percent of the 2000 recruits targeted in the exercise expected to wind up on March 13, meaning only up to 250 women will be enlisted contrary to the two third gender rule. A senior military official, who wished not to be named, termed military duty as different from other employments thus hiring many women as required by law will undermine KDF work. Read: Samburu women cry foul after KDF recruitment lockout "Military service is a peculiar profession so you cannot sacrifice the numbers in terms of defence and strength of the service. You have to balance between having the strength in the service and the constitutional requirement - they have to go in tandem. We are progressing but as much as we go forward, you have to bear in mind the work that we do," the officer said. "We are not people who are going to do internal jobs.Our job means lives on the line and we know women have their own challenges. If you have many of them then find that a quarter are pregnant and others with various issues, what will that mean to the personnel manning a particular area?. If you took 100 women to Somalia and are killed there, what do you say?” he questioned. On Tuesday a number thirty women in Msambweni, Kwale county were turned away as well the hundreds in Samburu. "I came here very early in the morning looking for a KDF job but I was told ladies would not be selected in this recruitment. They told us that our chance will come next time," Mercy Lolki, one of the female candidates who was barred at Kenyatta stadium in Samburu, said. She argued the women from the area were hardened enough and were equal to military tasks. On Thursday nine youths were turned away at Nanyuki stadium for dotting tattoos. Senior recruitment officer in charge of Laikipia county Lt Col Stephen Kiago, said others had been turned away at Lamuria trading center on Wednesday during the exercise over the same. "Most youths are tattooed and the KDF has its stands and policy that we do not take anybody with tattoo. The most conspicuous ones were in Lamuria," Kiago, commanding officer Mariakani Garrison, said. Reporting by Joseph Ndunda, Eliud Waithaka, and Martin Rwamba  Click here for the latest political
news    