A section of Rift Valley politicians have warned President Uhuru Kenyatta that his legacy will take a nosedive if government agencies continue to disrespect the rule of law. The legislators on Saturday condemned the arrest of Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter saying it is an attempt to intimidate and silence the legislator. Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kuttuny and Samuel Moroto (Mogotio) said this when they spoke with journalists at Muthaiga police station where Keter has been detained since Friday. More on this: Alfred Keter arrested over fake Sh633 million Treasury Bills Also read: I’ve been set up, says Keter as he is arrested over fake T-bills The legislators said they are not happy with the route Uhuru's administration is taking adding that they are not happy and that "Rift Valley is watching". "I want to tell Uhuru as my good friend that building roads, bringing electricity to the people or connecting water to every home will not earn him a name," Kuttuny said. "You will only set a legacy with respecting the rule of law," the legislator said, "We are not happy with you Mr President and the entire Rift Valley is watching." "How are we supposed to explain to our people what is happening to one of us. Please adhere to the rule of law and stop intimidating leaders using police," Kuttuny added. The MP said it is ironic that over 12 hours after Keter's arrest, police have neither indicated the MPs crime nor recorded the matter in an occurrence book. Also read: Chatur Group denies link to man arrested alongside MP Keter in T-bills saga He said the arrest is a clear indication of a plot by the government to taint the Nandi Hills MP's political image. "We are aware this is a political witch hunt because even Central Bank has not filed an official complaint. We have been here before and we know what is happening." "It is true that Keter has been a thorn in the flesh to Jubilee government but it is a shame that an MP can be arrested in such dramatic way," Kuttuny said. He said the Jubilee government might think they will silence Keter by arresting him but will only make him a hero at the end. "When DP Ruto was arrested, the government of the day thought he would be silenced but he is now the DP. They tried with Joho and he is now the Sultan," he said. "Babu Owino is one of the few leaders hitting headlines because the government decided to uplift him." "Miguna Miguna has just been raised to a political kingpin following his deportation. Now, they also want to make Keter a hero," Kuttuny added. He said the Rift valley MP's will stand together and defend their besieged colleague against such intimidation. The legislator held that they have seen documents indicating that CBK has been in contact with the said company (Desai Industries). "From our analysis, there is no way the suspects could withdraw Sh633 million over the counter. This narrative is not adding up," Kuttuny said. "You need about 30 lorries to carry such huge money. Is there solid evidence showing Keter had come to withdraw the said money?" Keter's lawyer said the documents have further indicated that CBK had already paid the money though it is not clear to what company the same was remitted. "This, if not political witch hunt, is a cover-up for something at the bank. We have requested police to release my client on cash bail they have refused yet he is not booked in the OB," the lawyer said. Moiben MP Silas Tiren also demanded the release of Keter saying such intimidation of political leaders will only derail Uhuru's development agenda. Click here for the latest political news  