Team Kenya’s residential training camp ahead of the 2018 Commonwealth Games have been thrown into a spin due to lack of training and accommodation facilities within the capital. A team of 65 athletes were picked during the Athletics Kenya trials held over the weekend at Moi Stadium Kasarani. Karasani Stadium, Nyayo Stadium and the hostels at Kasarani are undergoing renovations, leaving the team without a suitable venue to fine tune their preparations ahead the Club Games set for April in Gold Coast, Australia. Chef de Mission, Barnaba Korir, said: “As you are aware Nyayo Stadium is undergoing renovation and therefore unavailable entirely. While the Kasarani Stadium warm up track is fine for training, the pitch is not conductive for field events training and accomodation is also a challenge since the hostels are undergoing renovations too.” “We have contacted Kenya University (KU), who accommodated teams during the World Under-18 Championships, but their rooms are fully booked. The other option, Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos doesn’t have hostels to accommodate the teams while some facilities like Kenya School of Monetary Studies is unfordable due to their expensive rates.” Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret, which hosted the national trials to the 2016 Olympics Games, is also undergoing renovations. Korir also revealed that, of the 16 federations expected to form Team Kenya, only swimming and cycling associations are yet to submit their traveling parties. Nock Treasurer Antony Kariuki assured of a decent conduct, devoid of controversies that befell their previous assignment at the 2016 Rio Games. “We have agreed with Nike that they will do all shipments and clearances of kit and equipment meant for the team, a process we expect to finish by the end of February,” said Kariuki. “We want to be as transparent as possible, ensuring that every athlete receives each item as agreed with Nike.” Korir added that despite the approval of their Sh450 million budget they presented to the government, they are yet to receive a dime saying: “They have assured us that the funds will be available this week to enable us prepare the team smoothly,” said Korir. Team Kenya will travel to Australia in batches between March 24 and April 8, guided by individual competition schedule. Click here for the latest political news