The new changes in Harambee Stars technical bench initiated by the national team head coach Paul Put will have the full financial support of the government through the Sports Fund. Sports Principal Secretary, Kirimi Kaberia, said the proposal by Put to hire additional professional personnel to work with him in realising the short and long term goals will be funded by the government— a responsibility initially catered for by gaming firm, SportPesa. Kaberia, announced that the government is willing to foot the additional figures incurred by Football Kenya Federation (FKF) in bringing and remunerating the extra personnel in Put’s wishlist as a way of developing sports in the country. Speaking while on an inspection tour at Nyayo National Stadium, Kaberia said the government, through the ministry, is willing to provide all the resources needed by the national team in running their affairs. “We are willing to support any measure taken by the administration of the national team in achieving good results. We are committed in providing resources for the national team to enable them compete in all competitions.The Sports Fund footed Paul Put’s salary for the past month and any additions in his bench will be supported. We are also looking forward to supporting all federations in either cash or any kind depending on the support needed.” He also said the government was evaluating the possibility of footing the travelling and accomodation bills for AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia in their Caf away assignments due in two weeks time. The administrator disclosed that the ministry had received the clubs’ budgets. He said: “We are gauging the extend in which we can support them. I am aware they are due to fly for their away matches later next week and we are still evaluating the possibility of supporting them.” Kaberia toured and inspected the ongoing renovation works at Nyayo stadium and affirmed his earlier statement of having the facility ready in April. He expressed his satisfaction with the quality and pace in which the contractor executed the renovation works.