It is business as usual at the Kenya National Sports Council as the incumbents retained their position, with only one new entrant.
Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) secretary general, Ndiritu Gikaria, retained his seat as the chairman of KNSC board following Saturday’s elections at Riadha House, Nairobi.
Gikaria beat his sole challenger, the Nairobi Secondary Schools Sports Association secretary general Moses Mbuthia with 18 votes against 11 in an election, where only three positions were contested. Vanraj Sarvaiya (vice chairman) and Charles Nyaberi (treasurer) got another four-year term in office after failing to get challengers for their positions.
The newly re-elected KSSSA secretary general, David Ngugi, also an official of International Swimming Federation, retained his seat as a council member. Mary Muriuki is the only new face in the board as a member. Muriuki replaced Shadrack Maluki as a council member since the latter didn’t defend his position. Maluki was last year elected second vice president of National Olympics Committee of Kenya.
The ‘member’ position attracted five contestants for two available slots. Apart from Ngugi and Muriuki, the other contestants are Kenya National Paralympics Committee president Agnes Oluoch, Georgina Rugut and Peter Muchiri who garnered six, five and 12 votes respectively.
The new office will immediately embark on preparing Kenya for the East Africa Community Games set for Burundi, Africa Junior Championships in August and 2019 All Africa Games set for Guinea. The Council has a lot on their plate as they are heavily involved in the All Africa Games’ planning and at the same time have to prepare Team Kenya for the Afro sports carnival.
“With all these activities ahead of us, we must hit the road running,” noted Gikaria, also the human resource manager at Kenyatta University. Most Kenyans, including federation chiefs have little or no knowledge of the role of the council and Gikaria has vowed to steer the board to reclaim it’s full mandate as the bridge between federations and the government and an arbiter, presiding over sports bodies elections and providing leadership and governance education to the same organizations.
“Federations have in the recent past found it easy to bypass the council whenever they want anything from the government. They go through the department of sports. But I will lead the council to take its proper position because the new Sports Act doesn’ place the department of sports in a place that they can represent the government,” intimated Gikaria.
The re-elected council chairman will also lead federation bosses in reviewing KNSC’s constitution as they look to patch up the existing loopholes.