Outgoing AG Githu Muigai has reaffirmed Kenya's commitment to the Rome Statute and the ICC but noted the court should only be a last resort. Muigai began by acknowledging historical problems and deep differences of opinion with the Internal Criminal Court where Kenya cases have been concerned. But he added that there has never and will never be a question on whether the country is committed to international justice and accountability. "We always were, we still are and shall always be [committed to the ICC]. I am also happy to confirm our support forthe ICC and its ideals. Kenya never withdrew from the ICC, and to the best of my knowledge, has no intention at the moment to withdraw from the ICC," said the Attorney General who resigned "Kenya was among the very first nations in the world to sign up for and ratify the treaty and was definitely one of the very first ones to domesticate it. We did so then because we believed, as we do now, that these international institutions are important for securing the future of the world." He spoke at Strathmore University during a forum on justice for international and transnational organised crimes, dubbed 'Networks of Accountability'. President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto are among six Kenyans who have been tried at the court. Kenya rallied the African Union to a mass withdrawal from the court just before the cases against Uhuru and Ruto collapsed. In November 2016, the government said it was closely monitoring withdrawals by African countries from the international court. Burundi, South Africa and Gambia had kicked off their processes of withdrawing from the ICC, an exercise that takes a year. More on this: Kenya keenly monitoring ICC withdrawals Also read: ICC's toughest trial: Africa versus 'Infamous Caucasian Court' REGIONAL INSTITUTIONS COME FIRST While expounding on the ICC being a court of last resort, Muigai said it ought to play a complementary role to national and regional institutions. "I would like to affirm that Kenya sees the ICC as an institution that ought to be having a constructive engagement with Africa, and by constructive engagement I mean engagement of equals, in which matters of disagreement are thrashed out in an environment of no acrimony," he said. "It is important to note that Kenya remains committed to a constructive dialogue to ensure that the ICC remains a court of last resort. Domestic and regional institutions are allowed to process the cases of that nature. The ICC ought to complement domestic and regional efforts to combat international crimes." Muigai said Kenya supports the African Union's position on strengthening regional institutions that help address crimes against humanity. He noted the need to strengthen regional institutions (such as the African Court of Justice] that help solve crimes, notwithstanding the existence of the ICC. The AG said Kenya will continue to work with the African court to expand its jurisdiction and make it more effective. He added: "We in Kenya are a frontline state in the fight against international criminal gangs, some operating in the area of terrorism, some in human trafficking, narcotics and drugs, wildlife trophies and others. So we welcome partnerships that will help us address these problems." Click here for the latest political news