Most studies show tremendous benefits of the procedure, but there are risks involved  “Do you want to kill your son with pain?” This is what David’s father asked Maureen Atieno when she suggested they get their 14-day-old son circumcised. She had learned about the circumcision of babies on Nam Lolwe FM the previous night. “The radio (presenter) said babies can be circumcised right after birth just like men. He encouraged mothers to do that because there are health benefits,” says the 19-year-old first-time mother. Circumcision of babies, medically known as early infant medical male circumcision (EIMC), is not traditionally practised in Kenya. However, the Kenyan government prioritises it in the Second National Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision Strategy 2014 – 2019. It aims “to circumcise at least 40 percent of male infants who come into contact with EIMC-providing facilities within 60 days after birth by 2019.” A major health benefit is that it reduces the risk of contracting HIV by 60 percent. Compared to adult circumcision, EIMC is cheaper, heals faster and, unlike the case with adults, there is no chance that children would engage in any riskier sexual behaviour after circumcision because they feel more protected. But the idea of circumcising a days old child scared men like David’s father, who declined to be named in this story. He squirmed in remembered pain as he recalled his own circumcision five years ago. He did not think a two-week old baby could bear that level of pain. “They also have very small organs. What if something goes wrong and the doctor ends up cutting more than the foreskin?” he asked. However, Atieno was determined to find out if EIMC would in fact be the best thing for her baby. But having dropped out of school in Standard Six, she did not have the medical knowledge herself, and so she started asking men she knew. Only if necessary she would seek for more information from the local health centre. Her baby’s father was against the circumcision, and so was a shopkeeper at the nearby Marindi shopping centre in Homa Bay County, in Western Kenya. The 28-year-old Mark Owino questioned why anyone would “subject babies to so much pain.” “What if in future your son demands: mother, why was I circumcised? Is it not better for him to make that decision when he is grown?” he asked. Only one man, her cousin Robert Ndolo, outright supported circumcision of the baby. His own son had recently been circumcised, when he was two months old. Robert had been against it, but the baby’s mother insisted. Having got a father’s perspective, Atieno wondered what nurses would say. Early last month, she visited the Marindi Health Centre, which is about 2.5 kilometres away from Marindi shopping centre. Marindi is a small, county government-run health facility, built some ten years ago on two acres of land donated by the community. It now provides most ante and postnatal services, immunisation, and circumcision of babies. She met Tindlis Onyango, a 32-year-old registered nursing officer. He is about five feet tall with a disarmingly soft handshake. He works with the Impact Research And Development Organisation (IRDO), a local non-governmental organisation best known in Kenya for spearheading medical male circumcision in Nyanza, a traditionally non-circumcising region in Western Kenya. The organisation has piloted at least 2,000 infant circumcisions in Kisumu and Homa Bay Counties since 2016, offering the service for free. Onyango performed about 30 of those procedures since IRDO arrived in Homa Bay in February 2017. He regularly visits health facilities to recruit young mothers, but says it is not easy to convince them. “You have do a lot of mobilisation,” Onyango says. He begins with the basics explanation that circumcision is a surgical procedure that removes the foreskin covering the glans (rounded tip) of the male organ. Most studies show the benefits of the procedure outweigh the risks. “Some of the immediate benefits are that circumcised children cannot develop phimosis, a condition where the foreskin is too tight and affects the stream of urine,” Onyango says. This can result in infection. “The procedure is simpler because at that age the foreskin is thinner and less vascular, so they heal faster and complication rates are lower,” he adds. The National Aids and STIs Control Programme (Nascop) directs all HIV prevention services in Kenya. Nascop boss Dr Bartilol Kigen says they now encourage EIMC to sustain the current male circumcision momentum. “Kenya is the leading country in Africa in voluntary medical male circumcision. In VMMC (voluntary medical male circumcision) we targeted people 15 years and above but now we are going to infants, to sustain the numbers and increase coverage,” he says. “The same health benefits afforded circumcised men later in life accrue to those circumcised in infancy.” But uptake is a tall order. Last year, “The Mtoto Msafi Mbili (clean child II) Study”, canvassing 16 health facilities in Homa Bay, found that fewer than one in three parents were likely to have their baby boys circumcised at that age. The study was funded by the University of Illinois at Chicago and most researchers were affiliated to the Nyanza Reproductive Health Society, a non-governmental health research organisation based in Kisumu. “It is likely to take several years and allocation of substantial resources before rates of EIMC uptake may achieve targets of 40 per cent or higher,” said the researchers. The results were published in Plos One journal last September. “Pain and protection from HIV were the most frequently cited barrier and facilitator to EIMC,” said Prof. Jaoko Godfrey, a university of Nairobi physician who took part in the study. Onyango explained to Atieno that circumcision is not as painful for the baby as it sounds. Prior to the mid-1980s, babies were not given anaesthesia because the medical community did not acknowledge infant pain but that has changed. He added that certain conditions must be met before the procedure is done. “Babies must be less than 60 days old. Preterms cannot be circumcised until they meet the criteria to be discharged from the hospital, which includes weighing more than 2.5 kilogrammes,” he said. Babies from families with a history of bleeding will not be circumcised until tests are done to make sure the child does not have that problem. “Finally we must get the consent of the parents and then the operation can be done,” he added. Apprehensive, Atieno also spoke to Evelyne Ndiege, a 23-year-old insurance agent who lives in a rented house in Homa Bay Town. She had no regrets for having her child circumcised by Onyango in May. “My fiancé was very fearful and wanted our son to make that decision when he is mature,” she said. Evelyne decided to research more on the Internet. She bumped into claims that circumcision is painful for babies several times more than for adult circumcision. “My neighbour is a clinical officer and confirmed that they hardly feel any pain because they are anaesthetised and the blood vessels and nerve endings of babies less than two months old are not well formed,” she explained. Her six-week-old son, Kennaz Adon, was circumcised on May 30, this year. He only cried when being injected with the anaesthesia, she said. He continued suckling normally. After three days the scar had healed. “Within five days I could bathe him normally, because before that I was only wiping him,” she explained. “Atieno, what have you decided?,” Onyango now turned and asked. Atieno scanned around the health centre. The walls were painted a deep beige. Next to them was the delivery room. Only one female nurse was working because the rest had joined a national strike demanding higher salaries. Outside was a string of weary mothers, waiting to be attended by the female nurse. Atieno, like many mothers in rural areas, had given birth at home and missed such advice on EIMC, normally imparted by nurses just after delivery. Sometimes the indecision of some parents is torturing. Onyango was often forced to patiently explain the same things again three or four times. But he could not nudge parents into a certain decision. Atieno then announced: “My baby will be circumcised.” Onyango explained that the operation could be done immediately, as it would take only about 15 minutes. He ticked through some forms, and asked her many questions. Baby David Otieno turned one month old in November and was eligible. She appended her signature. Onyango then prepared the bed and placed David on his back, and used Velcro bands to keep his arms and legs still. He cleaned the baby’s genitals with antiseptic, and then covered David’s tiny body and its surrounding areas with a sterile drape. He then injected an aesthetic to the base of the male organ to ease the pain. David let out a cry. Onyango cuddled him. It was now time to use the mogen clamp circumcision device. He slid the clamp over the foreskin and locked it after confirming that the tip of the glans was free of the blades. From here, he used a scalpel to cut the skin from the upper side of the clamp. No sutures are required for infants. He then removed the drape and generously applied Vaseline petroleum jelly all over the wound, and covered it with gauze. He had to demonstrate this to Atieno, because she would do the same, at least for the next three days. He also demonstrated how to hold the baby and dress him. Only a few drops of blood were lost in the entire exercise, which took 10 minutes, including preparation. Dr Kigen says this trial exercise in Homa Bay and Kisumu will help the government develop a policy to guide infant circumcision in public health facilities. The government will then integrate infant circumcision into the existing maternal neonatal child health programmes. “Parents will access this as one of the child health services offered in clinics. But we need to develop policy first and then health facilities can offer it as a regular service,” “I’m glad I’ve done it,” Atieno said as she picked up David, and asked more questions. She then smiled and walked back home. 