Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has asked the government to prioritise the fight against bandits sprawling Kerio Valley. He said this should be the priority instead of "wasting money on non-issues like deporting lawyer Miguna Miguna and chasing NASA leaders". Tolgos said on Saturday that he is tired of attending funerals of victims of banditry
every week. More than 120 people have been killed in the last six month. He said the government is to blame over the laxity to tackle banditry in the region which straddles Elgeyo Marakwet and Pokot counties. "We have had so many meetings in the past including those attended by
President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto but there have been no
positive results," Tolgos said. The governor said resolutions at such security meetings are never implemented making bandits more bold to carry out attacks in the region. He spoke ahead of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i's tour of the region on Monday. The CS is expected to make an extensive tour of Kerio Valley to assess the security situation and help deal with runaway banditry. Matiangi will attend security meetings in Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet following the closure of more than 50 schools. Also read: [VIDEO] 2,000 flee after 70 houses burned in Pokot-Elgeyo bandit attack Tolgos said they have asked the CS to ensure security is restored in the region to allow the schools reopen. Political leaders from the two counties will also meet the CS to draw strategies for peace and reconciliation along the Pokot-Marakwet border. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said all leaders from Baringo, Pokot, Turkana and Marakwet must attend the meetings. He asked his colleagues Gideon Moi of Baringo and Samwel Poghisho of West Pokot to attend the security meetings. "As leaders, we are equal and we must all be present to deal with this problem affecting our people," the legislator said. "Some of the leaders never attend the security meetings s if it does not concern them." Read: Banditry shuts 50 Kerio schools, teachers, pupils demand peace Click here for the latest political news  