Lecturers went on strike today over failure by the government to table a counteroffer to their 2017-21 CBA. The issues are salaries, allowances, pension, housing, medical cover and promotions. The Universities Academic Staff Union accuses the Inter-Public Universities Council Consultative Forum of failing to table the offer on five consecutive occasions since May last year. Secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the IPUCCF reneged on its promises to table the offer on May 31 and July 1 last year, and on January 31, February 13 and February 21. “Uasu deeply empathises with students and parents, who have to contend with the devastating effects of a preventable strike,” he told the press in Nairobi yesterday. The seven-day strike notice issued on February 21 became effective at midnight. It will disrupt learning of about 600,000 students in 31 public universities. It raises rears of university closures after last year’s three strikes. This is the fourth strike in 14 months. Dons went on strike three times last year to push for signing and implementation of the 2013-17 CBA. The longest lasted for 54 days between January and March, leading to the signing of the CBA on March 13. Wasonga said universities’ councils and the government have violated the return-to-work formula in which they mutually agreed to negotiate and implement the 2017-21 CBA by July 1. He regretted that the strike is yet again hurting university education, as “the government and university councils seemingly care less. “I tell Uasu officials wherever they are that during the strike, they should not engage or meet any councils [and] university managements until further notice. Lecturers are now under the management of Uasu,” Wasonga said. The strike will be escalated tomorrow when the lecturers’ counterparts affiliated to the Kenya University Staff Union also take industrial action over the same grievances. Kusu secretary general Charles Mukhwaya issued the strike notice last Friday. “All Kusu members in public universities and their constituent colleges will have no otherwise, but to withdraw their labour. They’ll not resume duty until the CBA shall have been successfully negotiated, concluded and implemented,” he said. Mukhwaya said staff at universities will remain “mere beggars” if they don’t get the CBA signed in time. Also Read:A striking nation: Will 2018 be different? 