A matatu driver was on Monday arrested in Mtwapa for playing obscene music videos in a Public Service Vehicle. Section 12 (1) and (2) of the Films and Stage Plays Act CAP 222 of the Laws of Kenya forbids exhibition of unclassified video content in public places. The driver and conductor of the matatu, christened ‘2 Proud’, are said to have been playing the obscene music videos on Sunday afternoon while heading to town from Mtwapa. Pleas from passengers, most of who were parents with their children, were met with insults from the matatu operators. Two of the passengers were forced to alight before even reaching their destination, ‘because they complained too much’. On Monday morning, officers from the Kenya Film Classification Board and the National Police Service traced the matatu and nabbed it near the Mtwapa bridge. Panic gripped the matatu crew and the passengers before they could understand what was going on. The conductor tried to escape but was caught by the fit police officers. Read: Reflections: Loud music, flashy lights and graffiti KFCB Coast region manager Bonventure Kioko said the crackdown on PSVs playing obscene music videos has begun. “All public vehicles must either comply with the law or pull down the screens. Audiovisual content being exposed to the public is subject to regulation and matatu operators are not exempt,” Kioko said. Passengers in the matatu hailed the move saying matatus are increasing becoming notorious for displaying lewd videos. “Some passengers have high blood pressure and don’t need loud music but these matatu operators are too rude to listen to our pleas. When they call for you they are very humble, but once you are in they change,” said Irene Mwaganda, a passenger. Another passenger said sometimes school girls enter such matatus and go back and forth in them, spending more than three hours. “Parents think their children are at school yet the children are in matatus going round,” said the female passenger. Jason Murimi, who is the complainant, said he was with his family including a 10-year-old daughter when the obscene music video was playing. “Inside, together with other passengers we protested and asked the driver to stop playing the obscene video but he refused. Imagine what my kids saw. This is madness,” Murimi said. Matatu Owners Association Coast coordinator Salim Mbarak said they have warned Saccos against such obscene music. “We support the removal of these TV screens in matatus. Those obscene videos cannot be watched,” said Mbarak. He said it is against African culture to have show obscenities in public. “It brings the sector a bad image. Can these matatu operators watch such obscene videos with their mothers and fathers?” said Mbarak. Parents and religious leaders have complained of matatus playing obscene music videos luring young girls to them. The girls think it is ‘cool’ to board such ‘cool’ matatus. The two matatu operators are expected to be charged with exhibiting unclassified video content against section 12 (1) and (2) of the Films and Stage Plays Act CAP 222 on Tuesday.  Click here for the latest political news