Tension is high on the border of West Pokot and Elegeyo Marakwet counties with 2,000 residents fleeing their homes following rising cases of cattle rustling. Over the weekend, 250 houses were torched in Kamelei and Kapsen villages. Four people were seriously injured with one teacher shot in the leg. He is recuperating at Kapenguria County Hospital. Assistant chief Benjamin Kelan on Saturday said last week youths raided Marakwet and stole 48 cows. The animals were not recovered and this angered the neigbouring community, which planned a retaliatory attack and torched houses, but did not take any animals. Schools have been closed as children fled with their parents to Tapach and Sondany areas. The schools include Kamelei, Pstono, Traraka and Kapsen primary school as well as Kamelei secondary school. Vetting Kelan urged the government to deploy security personnel to help flush out the criminals. “There are a few criminals living among us,” he said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo called for immediate vetting of national police reservists. He urged police officers to involve church officials, chiefs and residents in vetting those who qualify to hold government weapons. “The police need to ascertain the record of the national police reservists before issuing guns to help prevent misuse of government weapons,” he said. Lonyangapuo urged the national government to help the counties resolve conflict that has reemerged after a period of peaceful coexistance. He said residents have set up houses for anti-stock theft officers and urged the government to send police to the region. “Residents want peace. That is why they have donated land and set up houses for the police,” Lonyangapuo said. “The government evicted people on the Marakwet side and gave them Sh410,000 compensation since they had invaded forest land. The government did not explain why they evicted people on one side leaving the other side.” Donation He said the West Pokot side is private land and residents have been issued title deeds. Lonyangapuo said this has not gone down well with their counterparts. “The government should clear this mess since we don’t want to live in fear. Both counties want to develop their regions,” he said Red Cross Rift Valley region manager Michael Ayabei called for calm and urged neighbouring communities not to carry out revenge attacks. “Women and children are the most affected because residents from both communities have migrated. We have donated a few basic commodities to help sustain the affected families,” he said. Ayabei said the society should engage in peace-building.