The rape last week of a teenage girl by a policeman is one among hundreds that never get reported, Lamu women representative Ruweida Obbo has said. The 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a GSU officer. She says her parents took Sh20,000 to drop the case. “The education of the girl child in Kiunga risks dying out if something is not done to stop the rampant sexual relations between schoolgirls and adults, most of whom are security officers,” Obbo told the Star. “These officers will normally sleep with these girls and run away when the girls get pregnant, leaving them to their fate. Many have quit school as a result. The worst part is that any security officers implicated always wiggle their way out and never gets to pay for their actions.” Obbo accused the security department of covering up for rogue officers. She said senior officers have been helping guilty juniors to evade justice by delaying or frustrating any efforts to punish them. Abubakar Bilul, a retired army general from Kiunga, blamed prevalent poverty for pushing young girls into sexual relations with security officers and other adults. He said many men use money or food to lure the young girls into sex. Bilul said parents make the situation worse by allowing the girls to use their bodies to bring in food and money for the family. “Most people in Lamu East are so poor and can't even afford basic needs in life. That explains why the young girls find themselves having sexual relations for money and food. Parents have stopped fending for their children and it's now the young girls who peddle their bodies for sustenance," he said. "The government should especially investigate security officers who sleep with and impregnate school girls here. It's a crime by law and before God.” Lamu Children’s Welfare officer Maxwell Titima said the department's officers will visit Kiunga soon to educate residents on the importance of education for girls. “It's true and we have heard so many cases. We shall be going to Kiunga next week and see what we can do to change the situation,” Titima said.   