Erection of 10 footbridges on Outer ring road is set to begin before the end of the month as Kenya Urban Road Authority sets July 14 as the new date for the completion of the project. Kura chief communications officer John Cheboi on Friday said that the project is more than 90 per cent complete. “There are small sections on service lanes that are still remaining and that is where the contractor is concentrating at the moment,” Cheboi said. The Sh8 billion expansion, launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in January 2015, was to be completed in September last year, but failed due to delays in compensation and relocation of services like water and electricity. Cheboi said areas where the footbridges will be erected have already been identified and all the materials assembled. When the Star visited the Road on Wednesday, walkways and cycle trucks were being expanded from the stretch between GSU headquarters on Thika Road and Juja Road roundabout. Street light poles are being erected while guard rails have already been installed and the lanes marked. Landscaping and planting of grass and flowers along the roads are ongoing. The 13km stretch runs from GSU headquarters in Ruaraka to Taj Mall on North Airport Road. It has been upgraded to a dual carriageway to ease traffic congestion. Outer Ring Road serves the populous Eastlands, which has about 2.6 million residents (60 per cent of the city's dwellers) and Nairobi's most active workforce. The walkways had been taken over by small traders who had erected kiosks, but most of them have been cleared. “The road belongs to us, traders have their operating areas and that is why we have to remove them to do our work,” Cheboi said. The county head of operations Peter Mbaya said inspectorate officers demolished the structures to give room for expansion of the pathways. Mbaya said demolition of all the remaining structures will commence next week, noting that his officers had temporarily stopped the operation to crackdown on street families and beggars in the city centre. “We will also remove all the illegal structures in the entire county,” he said. The expansion is being carried out by Chinese contractor SinoHydro Tianjin Engineering Company.