The Nairobi
county executive is employing delay tactics to evade audits queries on spending, MCAs have said. Members of the Public Accounts Committee claimed they have been
inviting Finance CEC Vesca Kengogo and all the chief accounting officers to appear before the panel to respond to the queries, but that they have
in most cases, failed to show up on “flimsy” grounds. Kengogo appeared before the committee on Wednesday but the meeting
did not last long as auditors attached to City Hall, by the Kenya National
Audit Office, and the ward representatives demanded more time to study the responses she
tabled. The MCAs said the CEC sent the responses too late for them
and the auditors to interrogate. The committee is investigating audit queries raised by Auditor
General General Edward Ouko for 2015-16 financial year. Related: Audit of Nairobi's Sh60 billion bills to end in 90 days - Sonko The MCAs said the CEC has failed twice to appear before them. “These people were supposed to appear before us on January 30 but they failed. The CEC sent a letter saying that she was attending an Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council,” Embakasi MCA Michael Ogada said. Ogada said she again failed to show-up on Monday and sent a backdated letter, with the same content as the one she sent last Tuesday. Karen MCA David Mberia added: “The letter we received on Monday was dated January 31 but the clerk’s office received it on February 5. Why should it take five days for a letter to move from the executive to the clerk’s office?” He said the committee had three weeks to table the report in the House. Kengogo denied using tactics to frustrate the committee's work, saying she has communicated with the committee whenever she has failed to show up. She said she sent responses to the queries to the
committee, prior to Wednesday's meeting, on January 26. “We have documents to show that we tabled the documents on January
26. But now we have agreed to give them until Tuesday so they
can go through them," she said. But Mberia noted: "We are going for a retreat on February 15 to write our report on whether the responses are inadequate or not because we have to table the
report." Click here for the latest political stories