Nairobi is drowning in garbage because 17 out of 28 contractors have stopped working over a Sh600 million debt. “This is the lower end of the estimation. In fact, it can be more than that,” accountant Martin Muchiri told a House committee yesterday. Muchiri, acting Environment chief officer Isaac Muraya and acting Finance Chief officer Ekaya Alumasi appeared before the assembly Public Accounts Committee to answer to audit queries. The committee is chaired by Mabatini MCA Wilfred Odalo. “The county has been experiencing financial challenges because the money we collect and that which we receive from the national government is not enough for our needs,” Alumasi said. Some of the contractors’ trucks have been auctioned after they failed to repay their loans because City Hall failed to honour its end of the contractual agreement. Muraya found himself on the receiving end when he told the ward representatives that they terminate contracts of companies that withdraw services. “How can you [say] it is a common practice [to terminate contracts] when you are the people who failed to pay the contractor? That is impunity,” Karen MCA David Mberia said. The auditor asked why the Environment department reassigns contractors to zones they were not allocated in the first place. Muraya said, “We reallocate contractors based on the need and capacity or ability of a particular contractor to do certain [duties]. We are not favouring any company.” There has been a public uproar over the increasing mounts of uncollected garbage in markets, estates, streets and backstreets, as well as roadside dumping. Only 29 out of 62 county garbage trucks are operational. The rest are grounded after they broke down due to bad roads, especially those leading to the Dandora dumpsite, Muraya said. The MCAs asked why some trucks bought from Foton Motor Group broke down only after three months. The county bought five trucks and garbage bins for Sh47.5 million. The MCAs said they read underhand deals in the award of the tender. Clearing garbage was one of Governor Mike Sonko’s promises in his manifesto, but residents feel not much has been done. More than 1,000 youths hired through the Sonko Rescue Team have had their contracts terminated following claims of nonpayment. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his 2015-16 audit report questioned why City Hall spent Sh70.7 million in paying NYS and buying gumboots and uniforms without showing the zones where it was prequalified to operate. Payments were also not supported by documents. Muraya said City Hall sought the services of NYS after its contractors boycotted work over delayed payments.