Private developers have encroached on wetlands around Kiambu Forest to build an access road, posing a threat to the woodlands. The Star found trenches dug around the wetlands when it visited yesterday. "We know they want to build an access road that will connect to the Windsor hotel," a resident who requested anonymity said. She said the developers drove to the wetlands in four state-of-the-art vehicles on February 17. At 6pm an excavator was driven in and then driven out at 7.15pm. "There are no approvals as required by law but the man who came seems to be having connections with powerful individuals and has been intimidating us," the source said. Residents fear the access road will lead to further grabbing of what is left of the forest. Kiambu Forest used to cover 860 acres, but now only 12o acres are left, the rest having been grabbed. "I have lived in this area for over 20 years and watched how the once vibrant forest is depleted. For the lucky ones the cases have been long thrown away hence they build mansions," the resident said. Kenya Forest Service chief conservator Emilio Mugo yesterday said the agency has sued to stop the project. "We confiscated an excavator that was being used to do the illegal activity and arrested the driver. I have instructed the lawyers to move to court immediately," he said. Mugo linked the project to an MP from Nakuru. The project will alter with the course of the River Gatharaini. Wetlands International Kenya director Julie Mulonga told the Star they are still gathering evidence before taking action. Wetlands is a global not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the conservation and restoration of wetlands. Mugo has urge forest rangers to be more vigilant. In an internal memo he said the Environment ministry is concerned about expansive illegal activities taking place in their areas of jurisdiction. Mugo said rangers who abet grabbers will be dealt with ruthlessly, including being arrested and prosecuted. Last year the National Land Commission revoked 151 title deeds allocated for land in Karura Forest. Residents around Kiambu Forest told the Star the illegal encroachment takes place at night and they cannot question it for fear. The once vibrant forest is now a pale shadow of its former self as trees and shrubs are cut by grabbers eyeing the remaining portion. "Our appeal is for the government to intervene as well as Kenya Forest Service to save our water catchment area," another resident said.