A well-known Bungoma human rights activists has said he was assaulted by Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s guards in the county chief’s presence. Martin Wanyonyi, CEO of Western Rights and Legal Aid Group, said he was watching a football match at Kanduyi Stadium when he was attacked. “I was peacefully watching the Chapa Dimba game, when people I know very well as guards of the governor accosted me and asked me why I was always attacking the government,” Wanyonyi said. “They were four in number and they beat me in the presence of the governor, as he watched.” He is also the chairman of civil society groups. Wanyonyi filed a report at the Bungoma police station. He cited a senior official at the county government logistics department as being in command of the group that attacked him. He has criticised the county government for ruthlessly dealing with critics of its projects. Theatrics “I am not the first one they have attacked. They have been attacking every critic, including journalists, and we have profiled all these cases. We can’t be ruled by a militia,” Wanyonyi said. He showed the Star bruises allegedly inflicted on him during the attack. Bungoma OCPD David Kirui confirmed they had recorded statements from Wanyonyi, who also filled a P3 form. “Once a matter is reported we start our investigations and we will bring the culprits to book once we are done with investigations,” he said. Speaking to the Star on the phone, the governor’s communications director Tim Machi dismissed Wanyonyi’s claims as alarmist. “The security that was manning the event was not ours but purely hired by Safaricom who were sponsors of the tournament,” he said. Machi said he saw the fracas from a distance but said the governor did no wrong. He said Wangamati did not know what was going on. “The distance between the VIP dais and the other arenas was quite a distance. We saw some fracas from a distance and could not even understand what was going on. None of our guys was involved,” he said. Machi said the governor has no private guards. “People should not try to find a footing by dragging the governor’s name into every theatrics,” he said.