Pwani University lecturer Hassan Mwakimako
says the failure by successive regimes to tackle marginalisation at the Coast made youths easy prey to al Shabaab. “There was a lack of visible representation
in the past governments, and tribal and cultural profiling in the issuing of ID cards created a general feeling among Muslims that they
are being discriminated,” he says. He says concerns raised by controversial Muslim clerics made them become a darling to the
youth, who felt they were not considered. “The arbitrary arrest of
Muslim leaders, especially fierce critics of President Daniel
Arap Moi's regime, also contributed to radicalisation of Muslim youths. This made it easy for radical preachers to sow hatred between Muslims and Christians, leading to illegal groupings,” Mwakimako says. Leaders of the Islamic Party of Kenya, including Sheikh Balala, were forced to flee to exile for campaigning against anti-Muslim discrimination. Moi instigated the formation of other
Muslim associations in an attempt to divide Coast Muslims on ethnic lines. “The decision by the Jubilee government to
deregister Muslim organisation without justification, including Muhuri
and Haki, are among the excuses radical clerics used to lure Muslim youths to terror groups,” Mwakimako says. “The enactment of security laws, forceful
disappearance of people, and extrajudicial killings are among the factors that
contributed to radicalisation.”  MAJOR TERROR ATTACKS However, security agencies say there is a decline in terror-related attacks since 2015, an indication that the government is winning the war on
terror. In 2013, al
Shabaab insurgents attacked Westgate Mall, killing 67 people. At least 60
people were killed when terrorists attacked hotels and a police station in
Mpeketoni, Lamu county, in June 2014. Less than two
years later, the same militants stormed Garissa University College on April 2,
2015, isolated Christian students and killed 142 of them, alongside six
security officers who responded. In 2016, heavily armed al Shabaab fighters raided a KDF camp at El Adde town in Somalia, and killed an undisclosed number of soldiers estimated to be more than 100. The
militants were protesting the incursion of Kenyan troops in Somalia in 2011. Despite the decline in attacks, analyst warn that the country could
slide back to vulnerability unless it sustains the ongoing operation in Boni forest, Lamu county, by engaging with local communities. Many al Shabaab militants have been killed by security forces since Operation Linda Boni started in 2015. However, in a sign of their resilience, the militants recently popped up in a village and lectured residents for an hour, warning them not to cooperate with the authorities. Security
agents deployed to the forest have in recent weeks complained of poor pay, a
recipe for collapse of the operation that might jeopardise the country’s
security. Director
operation Joseph Kanyiri has downplayed the claims of low morale. President
Uhuru Kenyatta has called on security forces to develop an multi-agency
approach to improve security. He said
security agencies must abandon the "silo mentality", where each unit works alone,
since that has proved to be ineffective.