Normal services have resumed at Tenwek hospital in Bomet following a fire incident which razed part of the building on Friday night. The hospital's chief executive Geoffrey Langat told the press that all the patients including those who were evacuated have returned to their wards. "We want to assure the public and the nation at large that everything is okay...there is no alarm at all, all the patients who had scampered for safety have since returned and we now have them back in their respective wards," he said. Read: Fire razes section of Tenwek Mission Hospital, patients safe He added: "We have another kitchen within the facility and another one at our school of nursing and those are the ones we are going to utilize them in the meantime." The hospital's board chair and AGC Kenya bishop Robert Langat on his part stated that as a board they will be meeting soon to access the extent of damages caused by the fire.  Governor Joyce Laboso with other leaders outside the facility./FELIX KIPKEMBOI He also thanked the members of the public for their concerted efforts in putting off the fire. The 8 pm inferno which its cause is yet to be established burnt down a bloc hosting a restaurant, store and a statistics room. Some of the staff at the facility, however, said they suspect the fire might have been caused by an electrical fault inside the restaurant. Bomet governor Joyce Laboso led several leaders in a visit to the hospital where they called for urgent support for the facility. She appealed to the national government to come to the aid noting despite it being a faith-based hospital there was a need for quick intervention to ensure services are running as usual.  From left: County health services directly Benard Sowek, hospital CEO Geoffrey Langat, Board chair Robert Langat and Medical superintendent Steve Burget during a meeting at the hospital./FELIX KIPKEMBOI Energy cabinet secretary Charles Keter, principal secretaries Peter Tum, Julius Korir, Bomet senator Christopher Langat, deputy governor Hillary Barchok, area MP Ronald Tonui, woman representative Joyce Korir and several MCAs from the area also visited the hospital. Tum said as the national government they had identified key areas which needed a close partnership with the facility in seeking to ensure all services get back to normalcy. Tonui on his part urged the county government to prioritize firefighting machines so that such disasters are dealt with aptly. Also read; Tenwek Hospital operates 20 kids with heart problems   Click here for the latest political news