Talismanic winger Collins Injera and centre Billy Odhiambo are the notable inclusions in the Kenya Sevens squad for the Las Vegas and Vancouver legs next month. Injera, Kenya’s top try scorer of all time with 246 tries and a mainstay of the team for the past decade, returns after missing the past three tournaments, owing to a hamstring injury sustained in Dubai in December. Odhiambo makes his first appearance of the season after undergoing shoulder surgery in September. Announcing the squad yesterday, head coach Innocent Simiyu said they are delighted to have the two back for the event. “Collins brings a wealth of experience in the team and an added advantage in terms of motivation. We also have Odhiambo who is a powerful runner and we managed to up skill him during the pre-season. We’re quite interested to see how he will play—this being his first outing this season.” On the pitch in Las Vegas, which is not standard size rugby ground like other venues on the circuit, Simiyu said the team will adapt. “The pitch in Vegas will force us to be to more direct in our attack and approach. We can’t go lateral because of the size but we will be fine,” added Simiyu. Kenya are in Pool ‘A’ where they face Fiji , France and Russia. On the side struggles in Vancouver where Shujaa have yet to qualify for the quarter-finals in two attempts, Simiyu said they will have to adapt to the cold conditions and have better recovery protocol from Las Vegas. “I think teams find it hard to adjust to the cold conditions there, but going forward, we may try and practice at an indoor facility to get the boys exposed and ensure we have adequate recovery period,” added Simiyu. Skipper Oscar Ayodi should be available for the Hong Kong leg in April as he recovers from knee surgery while Dennis Ombachi is till out on the sidelines till the end of April from an ankle injury sustained in Dubai. Ombachi should, however, be fit for the one of the final legs of the series and Rugby World Cup Sevens in San Fransisco. Forward Frank Wanyama, who has been sitting examinations should also be available for the next two legs of the circuit, according to Simiyu. Kenya are ranked eighth on the standings with 35 points. The team departs on Saturday evening Squad: Oscar Ouma (Top Fry, Captain), Samuel Oliech (Impala, vice captain), Andrew Amonde (KCB), Willy Ambaka (Quins), Eden Agero ( Quins), Dan Sikuta (Kabras), Jeff Oluoch (Homeboyz), Nelson Oyoo (Top Fry), Erick Ombasa (Menengai Oilers), Arthur Owira (KCB), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Samuel Ng’ethe (Menengai Oilers) Management: Innocent Simiyu (head coach), Will Webster (assistant coach), Geoffrey Kimani (strength & conditioning coach), Lamech Bogonko (team physio) and Erick Ogweno (team manager).