All public primary and secondary schools in Nairobi will be renovated and connected to water supply, the county has said. Education Executive Janet Ouko said classrooms will be repainted and ablution blocks renovated so they are conducive for learners. Ouko added the institutions will have regular water supply to curb the spread of diseases brought about by poor sanitation. Each school will, in the short-term, receive three- 1,000-litre tanks for storing water. “To ensure sustainable and permanent solutions to water services within Nairobi and in schools, the county will sink boreholes at designated places,” the Executive said. "We want to ensure our children learn in conducive environments. Clean drinking water will protect our kids from waterborne infections." More on this: Water rationing to persist until 2026 Also read: EU suspends Sh3.6bn water project funding In a statement on Sunday, Ouko said the renovations are part of the city beautification programme. Governor Mike Sonko recently ordered all landlords in the city to repaint their buildings as part of this exercise. To mitigate the water shortage, the county and the Water ministry have been sinking 85 boreholes. "Sinking boreholes will be a permanent solution to water problems in our county. Nairobi residents will enjoy water services," Sonko said. Since last year, the Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company has been rationing water due to a drop in the level at Ndakaini Dam. This has been attributed to the drought in the water catchment areas of Mt Kenya and the Aberdares. Last week, NCWSC's Acting Managing Director Nahashon Muguna said rationing will continue until the Northern Water Collector Tunnel is completed in 2026. The tunnel is expected to increase supply by about 140, 000 cubic metres per day. Currently, the firm supplies only about 503,000 cubic metres against the demand of over 700,000 cubic metres per day. According to Muguna, demand of water water in Nairobi grows by 20,000 cubic litres per year. Click here for the latest political news