Bayern Munich extended their lead at the summit of the Bundesliga after cruising to a 2-0 victory at Mainz on Saturday. Franck Ribery opened the scoring for the visitors after 33 minutes with an unstoppable volley from just inside the area. James Rodriguez then doubled Bayern’s lead moments before the interval following another fine finish. Bayern, who have now won their last eight Bundesliga matches, are 18 points clear of Bayer Leverkusen as they seemingly close in on another championship. Leverkusen moved back ahead of Borussia Dortmund, 3-2 winners against Cologne on Friday night, and into second place despite a goalless draw at Freiburg. Leverkusen headed into the match having lost just one of their last 15 league matches, a 3-1 defeat against Bayern earlier this month. But the visitors were unable to break down a determined Freiburg and were forced to settle for a point at the Schwarzwald-Stadion. Zlatko Junuzovic scored a 93rd-minute winner for Werder Bremen as they secured a shock 2-1 victory at 10-man Schalke. Yevhen Konoplyanka netted for Schalke midway through the first half after Werder goalkeeper Jiri Pavlenka failed to deal with his long-range effort. But the hosts were reduced to 10 men with 12 minutes remaining after Matija Nastasic was sent off following a second bookable offence. Nastasic’s dismissal changed the game, with Max Kruse scoring for the visitors with his first shot of the game before Junuzovic netted deep into stoppage time to seal a vital three points for Werder. Mario Gomez came back to haunt his former club as Stuttgart came from behind to draw 1-1 with Wolfsburg at the Volkswagen Arena. On-loan Liverpool striker Divock Origi scored his fifth Bundesliga goal when he drove at the Stuttgart defence before unleashing a neat finish with 24 minutes gone. But the Belgian’s first-half effort was cancelled out by Gomez, who struck on the hour mark, to deny Wolfsburg a home victory. Former Chelsea forward Salomon Kalou rescued a point for Hertha Berlin in their match against Hoffenheim. Andrej Kramaric scored from the penalty spot towards the end of the first half after Adam Szalai was brought down in the box. But Kalou salvaged a draw for Hertha after he headed home Valentino Lazaro’s cross shortly before the hour mark.