Was former East Africa Community Cabinet Secretary Phyllis Kandie prepared to appear before the Parliamentary Defence and Foreign Relations committee? Kandie has been nominated to become Kenya's Ambassador to Belgium, Luxembourg and the European Union. But when she appeared before the Foreign Relations committee for vetting, the former CS produced a document that had wrong information. She received criticism from members of the committee, who tasked her to explain the “mix-up”. ***** Is a first-term MP from Eastern also in the betting game? Our mole yesterday overheard the lawmaker telling a colleague how he managed to win a cool Sh150,000 after betting with Sh8,000, which he indicated was from weekend successful bets. The legislator told his colleague that he started betting well before he joined politics! ***** Junior police officers at a police station in Eastlands, Nairobi, are a frustrated and hopeless lot. Reason? They are pointing fingers at one of their station commanders for openly promoting nepotism and corruption in terms of promotions and transfers. According to one of the officers at the station, a case in point is the recent rising through the ranks of an officer with the help of a senior officer at Vigilance House. This happened while those who have served in the service for more than 20 years have remained constables, with a vengeance. Members of the public are also crying foul for being held illegally in police cells. They are now appealing to Inspector General Joseph Boinnet for stern action against the police boss. ***** An aide to a State House official was bragging how easy it is to make money in this country. Corridors have learned that the official says about 400,000 Kenyans who have invested in the matatu sector will undergo refresher courses at government driving schools after paying Sh5,000 each. We are talking of the government easily making Sh2 billion in less than six months. ***** A legislator whose August 8 win has been challenged in court has once again reassured his supporters that all is well ahead of the ruling, as he has “put in place measures to ensure I retain the seat”. Corridors has learnt that the MP has already told his supporters in his constituency to turn up in large numbers during D-day to celebrate his win. He has also been heard telling his supporters that the petitioner will regret why he went to court to challenge his win, as the court will slap him with a hefty penalty and say the case lacks merit.