"Too much debt! Looming Debt Crisis! Public Debt a National Disaster!" – Current headlines driving the public narrative on Kenya’s public debt paint a needlessly worrying picture that Kenya’s finances are in turmoil. With the issuance of Eurobond II, coupled with recent speculation that Kenya’s IMF facility of $1.5 billion has been suspended, the average mwananchi may be stressed beyond measure. Add that to the view that public debt directly equates to unbearable financial burdens on the children of tomorrow, and everyone should indeed be running for the hills. I am of the view that it is not all doom and gloom. Let us pause for a minute and catch our breath, following which we can objectively analyse Kenya’s public debt. Per official debt data, Kenya’s public debt, as of 31 December 2017, stood at KES 4.57 trillion. This represents a debt-to-GDP ratio of 54%. Critics note that this ratio is far too high, often without giving good comparatives. For example, the debt-GDP ratio of most developed countries ranges 80-100 per cent, and over 200 per cent for with Japan (IMF, 2015). Critics further argue that past some stated threshold, the increased debt-to-GDP threshold is likely to cause macroeconomic instability, which is not good for growth and ultimately makes the debt unsustainable. A recent IMF report notes that the correlation between high debt and macroeconomic instability is not as obvious as once was. Particularly, the 2010 study notes that while increased debt may have a negative impact on growth, the impact is only minute. The report further notes that this negative impact is easily reversed and overcome by increased public spending on growth promoting investments – such as in infrastructure. The key point here is that rather than focus on the total value of the Kenya’s public debt, focus is best placed on what and how the debt has been utilised. Debt to fund infrastructure is good debt. It is widely accepted that public debt, when correctly utilised, is a benefit, rather than a burden. It is through public debt that developmental targets are achieved. This also calls for the debt to be managed efficiently, utilised appropriately, and supported by principals of transparency and accountability. On the management side, it falls on the relevant governmental institutions to ensure that public debt is within levels that are supported by the economy. This involves considering the country’s expected economic growth, fiscal capacity, and default risk, among other factors. Often times, the fundamental trade-off between the cost and benefit of borrowing for investment is often underplayed. We need debt to actualise long term investments that promote growth such as the ongoing SGR, LAPSSET and highway development projects, which often do not come cheap. This will ensure that increasing debt obligations are appropriately balanced, or indeed surpassed, by year on year GDP growth.   