Just where was embattled NASA co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka driving himself to on Wednesday night? Our mole tells us that the former VP and Wiper Party leader was seen along Ngong’ Road in the wee hours of the night after the alleged gun attack at his Karen home. Although his government security had been withdrawn the previous day, it is inconceivable that the Wiper leader could be without his personal aides as his limousine drove at high speed along the busy road. What was his destination? ***** A flashy MP from Central Kenya has become a nuisance in a key parastatal in the Energy sector. The lawmaker is said to have made a habit of visiting the CEO’s office every Thursday demanding for ‘fuel’. The MP, who reportedly claims to be having numerous requests for financial assistance from his constituents, usually pockets Sh100,000 from the CEO on each of his numerous visits. But shockingly, the legislator is said to be employing blackmail and intimidation while demanding money. In one of the instances, the MP stormed out of the CEO’s office to the utter dismay of staff and shouted loudly that he had the wherewithal to have the parastatal boss fired. Aren’t public officers protected by the law from harassment? ***** A powerbroker from Northeastern is furious that a cartel of politicians from the region shortchanged him in a tender award deal. The influential businessman is said to have agreed with some elected leaders from a county in the region to share contracts but the deal went sour after the governor reportedly received instructions from State House advising against the deal. However, the politicians went behind his back and landed a few tenders. The businessman, irked by the developments, has vowed to publicly reveal the underhand deals he has been engaged in with the politicians that could have seen the devolved unit lose up to Sh200 million in ghost projects. Will the broker throw his compatriots in crime under the bus? Well, only time will tell. ***** A number of operators in the aviation industry are contemplating making a formal protest to authorities against a senior Kenya Civil Aviation Authority staffer who is being used by some companies to push aside competitors. The officer releases vital documents to their rivals in a blackmail scheme. There are claims that some senior management staff are being used to frustrate miraa cargo transporters to favour a certain company and lock out the local operators. The sad situation comes months after many aircraft imported for election campaigns reverted to commercial business.