The new 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum is "doomed to fail" because key stakeholders like teachers still don't understand it, a Kuppet official has said. Omari Otungu, who is Kisii Executive Secretary, noted teachers must be taken through the system to fully understand what it entails. Speaking in his office on Tuesday, the secretary said the ministry's challenge is centred on elaborating the new curriculum. The new system places emphasis on formative years of learning where learners will spend a total of eight years - two in pre-primary and six in primary. Read: New 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum: How different is it from the 8-4-4 system? Otungu further said the piloting of the model should be conducted in all schools in the county. He added: “I urge the Education ministry to ensure it provides learning materials before the piloting of the project is done." It was reported on Monday that the system is in disarray for lack of materials, shortage of teachers and shallow training. Some schools are yet to receive teaching materials while lack of sufficient training has left most teachers confused - a number have reverted to the old syllabus. Details: New curriculum pilot in disarray for lack of resources, poor training Also read: Do not rush roll-out of new education system, stakeholders warn state The official also spoke of new Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed, whom he said will fill former minister Fred Matiang'i's shoes. “I am certain the new CS will implement programmes he initiated in the sector,” he said, and urged Amina to learn from her predecessor. Regarding Teachers Performance Appraisal and Development (TPAD), Otungu ntoted they were concentrating on filling forms instead of delivering services. “Valuable time is wasted in filling the forms. That is why I am urging the Teachers Service Commission to look into other approaches." The Kenya National Union of Teachers earlier raised its concerns about the new curriculum, Secretary General Wilson Sossion saying the union will not be part of it because its piloting has failed. Sossion noted that in order for the exercise to succeed, there must be enough teachers and sufficient learning materials. Also read: School heads allay fears of tutors’ strike on 2-6-6-3-3 Click here for the latest political news