Raila Odinga has said he was not mad to swear by the Bible at Uhuru Park on Tuesday when he became the people's president. The NASA leader told reporters on Thursday that he won the election, contrary to IEBC's announcement that president Uhuru Kenyatta did, both on August 8 and October 26 last year. Raila claims he got 8.1 million votes in the original election and that his arch-rival managed 7.9 million. "I can swear by the Bible that the results we released last week were genuine. We won the elections while Jubilee lost. That is why I was able to hold the Bible. I did not hold it because I am mad or a megalomaniac," he said at Okoa Kenya in Nairobi. The ODM boss asked the government to stop intimidating those who participated in his swearing-in. They included Ruaraka MP TJ Kajwang who administered the oath, Siaya senator James Orengo and Miguna Miguna. Kajwang was arrested on Wednesday in an ongoing police crackdown on individuals linked to the oath. More on this: TJ Kajwang arrested for administering Raila's oath Also read: Miguna asks NASA supporters to remove Uhuru portraits, dares Matiang'i 'Kanu back with a force' The veteran opposition leader said "Kanu is back with a force and by a new name that we must find" as "we fought for a long time to give this country a new constitution." "How can we explain the media shutdown? How can a government contravene its own laws and the constitution?" Raila said the attack on the media and intimidation of the judiciary indicate Uhuru's Jubilee Party is "mad". "Jubilee is certainly mad. How else do you explain what has happened to the media - that a minister can wake up and say the media disobeyed the order and now they are being punished?" The minister in question in Fred Matiang'i who recently took over the Interior ministry. He was known for drastic reforms in the Education ministry. Raila said they will not allow dictatorship by the Jubilee regime and "that is why I am speaking with a lot of energy". The High Court earlier ordered the government to reopen NTV, Citizen and KTN pending the hearing and determination of the case. Read: Reopen TV stations, High Court orders state 'Kalonzo oath intentionally staggered' Raila addressed the press accompanied by NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Bungoma senator Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and NASA chief campaigner Musalia Mudavadi (Amani National Congress). They denied claims of a split in the coalition saying it was a strategy and that NASA is intact, contrary to media reports. Kalonzo said their earlier agreement was for Raila to stagger their oaths in a well-calculated strategy after gathering intelligence information. The leaders said they will give their supporters a comprehensive way forward on Friday. This was the first time the NASA bigwigs addressed the public together after Raila's solo oath. Raila was sworn-in as the people's president, bringing possible treason charges to the fore. The punishment is death but he said this is a price he is willing to pay. Read: Raila 'sworn-in' as people's president, Kalonzo absent Click here for the latest political news