A miller and his son were once going with their Donkey to market. As they walked by, a countryman passed them and said: “What is a Donkey for but to ride upon?” So the miller put the boy on the Donkey but soon they passed a group of men, one of whom said, “That boy lets his father walk while he rides.” So the miller ordered his son to get off but they hadn’t gone far when they passed two women, one of whom said to the other, “Shame on that lazy man to let his poor little son trudge along.” The miller decided to ride with his son in front of him. But then they met another group of men who asked. “Aren’t you overloading that poor Donkey?” The two then decided that they should carry the donkey using a pole tied to its feet. They went along amid the laughter of all who met them till they came to Market Bridge, where the Donkey fell over the bridge and drowned. Over the years, just like the miller and his son, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has been eager to please everyone and in effect, he has lost his dignity and an actual chance to be in government. But last week, Kalonzo showed another side of himself that made people mock him as being a watermelon. And despite putting on a brave face, the former Vice President actually showed he was not ready to continue engaging in sideshows. Kalonzo, his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula did not attend the botched swearing-in of NASA leader Raila Odinga in Uhuru Park. Interestingly, Kalonzo seems to be the only person who got most of the backlash for skipping the event. NASA keyboard warriors were keen to depict him as a NASA mole, a traitor and a watermelon. On the contrary, it is my opinion that Kalonzo showed bravery in skipping the event and for once, was keen to show he is his own man and can make his own political decisions. The swearing-in, which took less than two minutes, was a mainly an ODM affair. It is now clear to all that the other principals were able to see through this and ditched their plans to attend. With last week’s event behind us, Kalonzo has a perfect chance to start thinking about 2022, and to plan on how he will position himself to be in government. They say there are no permanent enemies in politics, only permanent interests. Therefore, he should consider working with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s government and strategise a possible partnership with Deputy President William Ruto in 2022. As was clear from the oathing, Raila will be on the ballot in 2022. Why should Kalonzo continue being in NASA? There are a lot of opportunities which Kalonzo can use to position himself and remain the key figure in Ukambani politics. He cancan take advantage of the Big Four agenda and pick areas from which his people can benefit directly. It is a waste for Kalonzo to spend all the vast experience gained over the years he was in government to run around with a rudderless outfit called NASA. Instead, he should use this experience to partner with government and push for benefits for the Ukambani region. It is clear Ruto is in the lead and it is only those that will stick with him who will gain. Helping Ruto build Uhuru’s legacy will make Kalonzo a frontrunner for Deputy President in the 2022 General Election. Kalonzo must stop trying to please everyone just like the Miller and his son, and strategize effectively on how to remain relevant after the 2022 election. This cannot be achieved by becoming Raila’s running mate again. The writer is a political and communications consultant