In what has been seen as a show of defiance, Moses Wetang'ula referred to deputy president William Ruto only as 'honourable' during Yvonne Wamalwa's funeral on Saturday. The Bungoma senator and Nasa principal called other leaders 'your excellencies' at the funeral in Milimani, Kitale, where politicians flexed muscles. More on this: CS Wamalwa scolds politicians for claiming government neglected Yvonne Nasa continues to reject president Uhuru Kenyatta's rule so on January 30, leader Raila Odinga was 'sworn-in' as the people's president. The government warned the media against covering the event and resorted to shutting down major TV stations when the order was defied. After suits were filed, the High Court suspended the ban as the case is heard but this has not been implemented. Wetang’ula lashed out at Uhuru and Ruto for failing to obey the order for KTN, NTV and Citizen's live transmission to be restored. The legislator told the president to immediately lift the ban which has resulted in outcry by the public, the media, rights groups and politicians. "Article 35 of the constitution gives Kenyans the right to information. I wonder why the president and the government have violated the constitution," Wetang'ula told mourners at the funeral of the widow of former vice president Kijana Wamalwa. He also rebuked the Jubilee administration for withdrawing the security of some Nasa leaders amid a crackdown on members of the outlawed National Resistance Movement. Related: [Statement] I'll not beg Jubilee, courts for gun licence - Mudavadi  Mourners during Yvonne Wamalwa's burial at her Milimani home in Kitale, Trans Nzoia county, February 3, 2018. /Nicholas Wamalwa The Ford Kenya leader's sentiments were echoed by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa who said Jubilee does not respect the rule of law. “If Uhuru has breached the law by failing to adhere to court orders, who are we to follow the law?" Ruto, who spoke last and read Uhuru's condolence message, did not respond to these issues, saying instead that Jubilee wil rule firmly until 2022. Details: 'God's case no appeal': Jubilee only ready for development talks - Ruto Leaders who attended the burial included Education CS Amina Mohamed; senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka; governors Patrick Khaemba, Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), Sospeter Ojamong (Busia), and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega); senator Michael Mbito and at least 20 MPs. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa read former president Mwai Kibaki's message to his family. Earlier, Benjamin Washiali found himself on the wrong path after undermining Raila's oath - the Jubilee Party whip in the National Assembly was heckled at the funeral. He had said: "In future, we will have to change laws so that anybody taking the oath should not carry the bible because some people are joking." The heckling forced him to cut short his speech. Click here for the latest political news