Posta Rangers were considered real contenders for the Kenyan Premier League title but a measly return of three points in as many matches has deflated those lofty ambitions at least for now. This afternoon they have an opportunity to clear the doubts on their ability to sustain a title challenge for the title when they host a resurgent Chemelil Sugar at Camp Toyoyo. Danson Kago will be particularly keen to impress and possibly attract the eyes of the national team coaches. Chemelil though have proved a tough nut to crack and Posta may have to shed their penchant for defensive play if they are to get their first win. A new coach may have taken over at Tusker but nothing much seems to have changed in terms of results under Sam Timbe. The Ugandan must show that he can cut it in the Kenyan top flight league starting with today’s clash against Nzoia United. Winning matches is becoming increasingly difficult in KPL as Nakumatt and others have learnt at their cost. The cash-strapped one-time supermarket giants are among more than a dozen clubs yet to win a match and they will be hoping their fortunes change at the expense of Sony Sugar who they host today. There will be few better opportunities for basement club Zoo Kericho to get their first win of the season than a home tie against fellow strugglers Thika United. Sammy Okoth’s charges may point at the difficult fixtures they were dealt in their opening three matches as reason they are yet to pick a point. While it is understandable to lose duels with title contenders like Gor Mahia and Ulinzi Stars, there will surely be no excuse for them not to pick a point against a Thika side that is yet to pick a point and has been hampered by injuries to key players. Vihiga United will feel that the opportunity to pick their first win of the campaign is upon them when they host county neighbours Kakamega Homeboyz. Andrew Murunga, already with two goals to his name, will be particularly keen to put one over his former employers Homeboyz. Meanwhile, Bandari will be quietly confident of picking three points when they host debutants Wazito. It will, however, be foolhardy for the dockers to think it will be easy against a Wazito side that claimed the experienced scalp of Sony in their maiden Premier League match. Tomorrow, champions Gor Mahia put their 100 percent record on the line against unbeaten Kariobangi Sharks while their arch-rivals AFC Leopards will be searching for their first win of the season when they host Ulinzi Stars.