Hawkers in Nairobi city want the county to single out specific streets and alleys in the city to continue doing their business. The hawkers have expressed their frustrations with the Nairobi county directive made in October last year to relocate them to Mwario market, Kariokor and Muthurwa market claiming that their businesses thrive from human traffic. “Those who have operating in those markets have established customer base, it will take time before we do the same,” one of the hawkers only identified as Kevin said. The hawkers said designating streets like River Road would ensure minimal interference in the central business district.  PUBLIC OUTCRY Kenyans have been calling on the county officials to move hawkers because of the constant obstruction and the menace they impose on free movement along walkways. County officials maintained that they would clear the mobile businesses by the end of February despite the hawkers’ stubbornness. Nairobi County Director for Operations Peter Mbaya said following the public outcry and increased insecurity and crime, they had managed to clear some of them but have not been completely successful. “There is a slight reduction and Kenyans should be able to notice. We have been busy dealing with chokoras (street children) and bodaboda operators but we are still controlling,” Mbaya said. Giving the directive, he said Muthurwa Market will be demarcated into accessible stalls to allow the small scale traders carry out business. Some of the hawkers have expressed fear that spaces allocated for business operations were inadequate and could not accommodate everyone. “We are too many for each one of us to get a space,” a street vendor only identified as Erick said. Recently, police affirmed that the presence of hawkers and street families had increased insecurity and crime in the city. However, hawkers refuted these claims saying the criminals usually take advantage of the confusion that emerges when city council officers chase and harass them. “We are here seriously for business,” they said.  THROWN OUT Majority of street vendors are women who venture into hawking as a source of livelihood. This, according to the vendors is as a result of high levels of unemployment in the country. Another street vendor who sought anonymity claimed that the county would be doing injustice to force them out of town. “That is like throwing us away. Our daily customers can’t get to those markets, especially those boarding matatus here in Railways can’t make their way to Kariokor,” she said. “If we are forced to relocate eventually, I would rather find another job.”