The current system for taxing cigarettes should be replaced with an easier plan where all types of cigarettes are taxed equally, lobby groups have said. Currently, filtered cigarettes are taxed Sh1.80 per stick and those without filters Sh2.50 for each. International Institute for Legislative Affairs, a Nairobi-based legal think tank, said the system has created many loopholes and the government was losing Sh7 billion every year in potential taxes. IILA proposes a flat rate of Sh3.25 for every cigarette stick regardless of whether it is filtered or not. Cigarettes are taxed mainly to earn the government revenue and discourage people from smoking tobacco, which causes cancer, heart complications and more than 50 other noncommunicable diseases. lobby The Kenya Revenue Authority had adopted the flat taxation system in 2015 and charged Sh2.50 for every stick regardless of type. “This move led to a drop of 17 per cent in consumption of cigarettes and an increase of revenue of appropriately Sh7 billion from Sh8.23 billion to Sh15.56 billion,” Emma Wanyonyi, the IILA chief executive, said in Nairobi yesterday. Manufacturers lobbied against the flat rate and Treasury CS Henry Rotich ordered the KRA to revert to the tiered system last year. IILA submitted its recommendations to the Treasury, which received the 2018-19 tax proposals from key public and private sector players yesterday. Cigarette maker BAT Kenya opposes increased taxes, saying cigarettes would become “too expensive for ordinary people”. “We would encourage the government to have a much more stable tax environment so that their revenues can be more predictable and we can have a more predictable operating environment,” BAT Kenya managing director Beverly Spencer-Obatoyinbo said. “Smaller increases in specific excise rates are easier for us to manage and easier for the consumer to handle and will give consistent revenue gains for the government.” Wanyonyi said the tiered system has made cigarettes cheaper, denying the state revenue.       