Insurance agents and brokers have been urged to use technology to avoid losing their market share to new developments. “Since insurers are investing more on these platforms, agents and brokers will have to be able to invest in a platform,” Resolution Insurance managing director Alice Mwai told the Star. The insurance industry, like other sectors in the economy, has been shifting towards a digitally driven environment, a move expected to cut operational costs and ease business processes across all sectors. A KPMG report on insurance released in August 2017 showed Kenyan insurance firms need to integrate digital disruption into their businesses to accelerate premium incomes in the face of a young dynamic customer base and a rapidly expanding middle class. Mwai said, selling insurance using online platforms rather than door-to-door will reach more people and ultimately drive up insurance penetration currently at 2.7 per cent. She said digital platforms rolled out by insurance agents will be more applicable in the personal products segment compared to corporate, whose complex business covers need specialised agents able to help determine risk and how much the businesses should pay for it. “Looking at more developed markets, the personal lines such as motor and medical can be purchased on a digital platform. Over time, they will start more and more to be sold through technology,” Mwai said. “We are not saying they will be fully eliminated, but they will need to transform themselves to keep the market share in the personal line of business.” BIMA Intermediaries Association of Kenya chairman Washington Ndegea said agents had already embraced technology in distribution of insurance products “to the extent that it has become an inseparable tool of their trade.” Resolution Insurance has partnered with Insure Afrika to introduce a web-based solution that will allow PSVs, taxi owners and operators to acquire and renew their motor insurance. “This product will change how insurance works by bringing in the aspect of digitised insurance solutions,” Insure Afrika CEO Gagan Hayer said.    