The closest presidential election in modern history is the 54th quadrennial poll pitting Al Gore and George W Bush in 2000. After a nail-biting and sleepless 36-day vote recount battle in Florida, Gore finally conceded to Bush on December 13, 2000. Gore had no choice but to concede because the Supreme Court had earlier stopped counting of the votes, thereby effectively making Bush President. The declaration of Bush as President in this unprecedented election and its aftermath did not, however, end the controversy. Following what many argue was the appointment of Bush as President by the US Supreme Court in its sharply divided decision along partisan lines to stop vote counting in Florida, media and academic organisations conducted their own studies of the disputed ballots in Florida. Taken as a whole, the studies show Bush would have, most likely, won the Florida statewide hand recount of all undervotes. Undervotes are ballots that did not register a vote in the presidential race, which is contrary to popular belief that the US Supreme Court handed the presidency to Bush, or took it away from Gore. The studies also show Gore would have won a statewide recount of all undervotes and overvotes, which are ballots that included multiple votes for President and were thus not counted at all. However, his legal team never pursued this action, leaving many to wonder why, albeit in hindsight. More than 17 years later, who won the 2000 election is still a partisan affair, with the majority maintaining Gore won but Bush essentially stole the election. Indeed, Gore supporters so hated or despised Bush after he was sworn in that few thought his presidency would be anything other than an asterisk to be deleted from American politics in the next election cycle. That, indeed, would have been the case had one Osama Bin Laden not violently burst into American life on September 11, 2001, forever changing Bush’s fortunes and the country’s life and history. In other words, Americans, even those who hated Bush to the core, found unparalleled unity and love and rallied behind Bush in ways he would never have imagined and he rode the coattails of the newfound nationalism and unity to his reelection four years later. Much as Bush was hated by many before Osama struck, Uhuru Kenyatta is hated in equal measure if not more by a large segment of the Kenyan population that strongly believe he rigged and worse so in his “reelection” in October 26. Unlike the US, where there were scores of studies by all manner of independent groups of varying political interests, ranging from the very partisan to the most objective analysis of the 2000 US election, there have never been such studies following every disputed election in Kenya not out of want of need for one but precisely because there has not been any need. This is because save for 2002, everyone knows every presidential election in Kenya has either been stolen or simply not representative of the will of the majority. Those who deny this to be the case are simply disingenuous or in complete and total denial for even the culprits privately admit and laugh as they enjoy the ride. That’s not just an aside; it’s a fact: Neither Uhuru nor William Ruto know how to steal elections and if left alone, they wouldn’t know what to do to rig, They are the beneficiaries of cooks nonetheless who cook anything edible provided it pleases the master. That being the case, a compelling case can be made that Raila Odinga’s oathing is an effort to ease the pain of these masses suffering from this sickness and disgust caused by electoral theft. The answer is not to make them even more sick and disgusted but for Uhuru to reach out and seek dialogue with the opposition at least in efforts to heal the wounds and make sure we never again go through another election theft of the scales we have seen.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States      