They came in their thousands, in high spirits and ready to have fun watching one of the most awaited games to be hosted on Kenyan soil. No, it was not rugby, neither was it the much-loved athletics. It was a football game. The day was Sunday, May 13, the venue Moi Kasarani Stadium and the game, well by now everyone knows about it — the day Gor Mahia played against English club Hull City. The only other time that Kenya’s biggest stadium witnessed such a capacity crowd attending a football match was in 1997, when the Harambee Stars played against Nigeria’s Super Eagles. Now let’s crunch the numbers. The spend by the sponsor in marketing the game, an advertising campaign the company carried for weeks, was no less than Sh100 million, which went into billboards, print, digital and electronic media and branded merchandise, among other avenues. The well-planned event had to have roped in many other businesses, including the event planners, hospitality teams, production companies, tour agencies, transport companies. These are small, medium and large businesses that reaped big from the few days that Hull City were in town — regardless of the size, many contractors got a piece of the Hull City tour pie. In 2012, after years of struggle for the local top flight league, a major brewer took over the financing of the Kenyan Premier League. It was a major relief to the 16 teams that were part of the league then. This translated to sustained wages and match allowances for the players and officials, cash that supported various families and trickled down to the economy. Years later the league was taken over by gaming company SportPesa, which has gone beyond financial support, extending the partnership to include capacity building through various projects. These projects have sometimes translated to good business and job opportunities for many other Kenyans beyond the sporting circles. Take the Super Cup Tournament that happened last month in Nakuru for example. The tournament involved eight teams from Kenya and Tanzania battling it out for a chance to face English Premier League side Everton in the UK. From June 1 to around June 12, getting accommodation in Nakuru was a major hassle because the Super Cup had come to town, bringing with it hundreds of supporters, tens of players, match and team officials. The tourism value the tournament brought to Nakuru was significant and clearly visible. The total number of participating team delegations was slightly more than 216. Some of the participating teams are supported by a faithful legion of fans who religiously attended the tournament. Gor Mahia, Simba and Yanga fans stood out in Nakuru, not forgetting also one of Kenya’s biggest clubs, AFC Leopards. Aside from the hotels, kiosks, entertainment spots, restaurants, merchandise hawkers, boda bodas were major beneficiaries of the Super Cup Tournament. Again, this was another pointer to how a well-planned, financed and marketed sports event has immense benefits to all the levels of the economy. Kenya Rugby Union’s Safari Sevens events, another sports occasion that has been receiving good attendance whenever it is held (depending on the location), is also a major indicator of the appetite Kenyans have for well-organised sports events that they transform into family outings. This means there is money in sports, if only more corporates can be part of various sports disciplines to market them properly to attract more Kenyans. And as the attendance to sports events grows, so do the opportunities for our sports men and women as well as our economic backbone — small and medium-sized enterprises. The possibilities in sports are endless. It is about time more sports bodies worked to woo many more corporates into Kenya’s sports industry. It can be done!