Private schools are doing better than public schools in piloting the new curriculum. An evaluation by the curriculum developer shows private schools are excelling because they have adequate learning materials and teachers are better trained than their public school counterparts. The pilot started in January in all counties. The implementation will be in January 2019. The pilot covers pre-school and Standards 1 and 2. It’s also being done in Standard 3 in 470 schools. The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development (KICD) report reveals that public schools are struggling with inadequate learning materials, hurting the pilot. It says some teachers need more training to grasp the curriculum. KICD chief executive officer Julius Jwan on Friday said the government will buy books for learners in the third term of the pilot. The three subjects targeted are Mathematics, English and Kiswahili. English and Kiswahili books will be acquired under USaid’s flagship Tusome project. Mathematics books will be bought under the Kenya Primary Education Development (Priede) Project sponsored by the World Bank. “We are reviewing the challenges, we have given a draft framework of the curriculum to the ministry for assessment so they can request funds for the project,” Jwan said. Read:New curriculum pilot in disarray for lack of resources, poor training Kenya Private Schools Association chief executive Peter Ndoro attributed the significant progress in private schools to greater investment. “Implementation of the new curriculum needs capacity-building and investment. When all stakeholders understand, it starts yielding results and that is exactly what private schools are doing,” Ndoro said. However, he criticised the delayed roll out of the assessment framework by the Kenya National Examination Council. The framework will guide the new testing process. The new education system replaces the current Standard 1 to Form 4 with Grades 1 to 12. It has three phases — Early Years Education covering nursery education to Grade 3, Middle School Education covering Grade 4 to Grade 9 and Senior School covering grades 10 to 12. The implementation next year will cover pre-school to Standard 4 and move progressively up the system, with the pioneering students completing high school in 2027. In effect, 8-4-4 will continue until the last batch sits Form 4 exams in 2026. Also Read:New curriculum not hanging in the balance, says Matiang'i Click here for the latest political news