Why has the investigation into the Sh3.2 Ruaraka land scam taken inordinately long? There are indications that the investigations file has been returned to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission twice now amid claims that high profile suspects implicated in the matter are presenting a dilemma to government mandarins. To charge or not to charge? The anti-graft agency had initially said they want to charge at least 25 people. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has received plaudits for his swift actions but cynics say Ruaraka is his litmus test. ***** Opposition chief Raila Odinga has surprised his inner circle. Sources whispered to Corridors that after his truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta almost five months ago, the ODM leader has become very secretive. Nobody gets to know what he is planning. Some say it's part of statecraft since he is now in the inner sanctums of power. He is said to meet President Kenyatta frequently but everyone in his office, including his advisors, are clueless. Recently, one of his aides was quoted saying that Raila meeting Uhuru is no longer news. ***** The brazen nature of cartels when it comes to government tendering has been laid bare in what is shaping into a grand scandal at Kenya Power. That a few people would informally divide multi-billion tenders on WhatsApp group is unprecedented. Sources whispered to Corridors that the procurement of treated poles by KPLC has attracted the attention of DCI that just a few weeks ago hauled the entire management to court. Could some officials be starring at extra charges? ***** Where are pollsters with their usual state of the nation surveys, five months after the earthshaking political handshake? Well. Many Kenyans would have hoped that they would be interested in how the historic deal between Uhuru and Raila sits against the expectations of Kenyans. However, the pollsters are nowhere when the public is yawning for an evaluation. Is it because there is no willing financier or they dont think it is important? Well, may be they are just guns for hire. ***** A governor from Nyanza is in shock. It's whispered that nearly all MPs from the expansive county who supported his election have abandoned him and some have become his worst critics. But even worse for the county chief are claims that a woman representative is seriously salivating for his seat. The woman MP was at the forefront of championing the six peace narrative in Nyanza region in the last election. Sources whispered to Corridors that should the the gubernatorial seat fall vacant, some two MPs are contemplating resigning to contest for the top job. ***** Click here for the latest political news