I learnt of the death of Mathew Kimani Gathigira with great sadness, having known him for many years after meeting him at the Weekly Review, where he was once a sub-editor. The son of Henry Gathigira, the famous editor of the East African Standard, he had joined the magazine soon after graduating with a degree in English literature from a Scottish university. Right away, we could see that he was different. Endowed with an enormous girth, he was always clad in a black or navy blue jacket with a fabric lapel flower, a blue or white shirt fastened with Tuxedo buttons, black or grey funnel trousers equipped with suspenders, and a red, pinned tie. Every morning, he would get into town from wherever he had expended his nocturnal moments, and stride into an upmarket salon where they would massage his face, comb his hair and remove every strand of offensive hair from his face. Why he couldn’t do this at home is a question we used to ask ourselves. But the effect this daily grooming had on him was unquestionable. He looked like a million dollars, or like the real owner of all the five-star hotels around the city, which he frequented. Actually, with hair combed back, he looked like a better-dressed but slightly down-sized African version of Patrick Shaw, the infamous Nairobi crime buster, or Robert Maxwell, the British media buccaneer of the time who once bought the Kenya Times and wanted to build a 64-storey building on Uhuru Park with a 14-storey statue of President Daniel arap Moi. Yet Mathew was a bundle of suave contradictions. While he looked like he owned Nairobi and was always acknowledged with salutes by guards and deferential bows by hotel concierges, he was a humble man with a healthy contempt for money, for you have to be contemptuous of it to spend it the way he did. Instead of driving himself, he preferred expensive taxis, and couldn’t be caught eating east of Moi Avenue. A connoisseur of the good life, he met and developed impeccable sources at high levels of government in the Daniel Arap Moi administration. Mathew was a bosom friend of Nicholas Kipyator arap Biwott, aka, Total Man, then a feared minister in the Moi government. While others found it difficult to get an appointment with the paranoid Biwott, Matt would just walk into his office any time and see the man. He also enjoyed access to other senior government officials. As a result, he always knew what was going on at the nerve centre of government. Unfortunately, he never divulged the juiciest secrets. I owe the late Matt, or MG as we called him, a lot for showing me around town when I was an arriviste greenhorn from rural Kenya.  As we walked around town, we looked not unlike the main characters in the comedy movie, Twins, with me as a skinny Danny DeVito, kowtowing along. I will always remember him as a great copy editor, a professional well versed in the intricacies of English grammar. He certainly knew his dangling modifiers, appositives and parallel constructions as well as the differences between little known punctuation marks such as the interrobang, the acclamation point and the percontation point. As an editor, he could identify a legal pitfall in journalistic copy from a mile. Copy editing, his chosen career, is often the unremarked sibling in journalism, for copy editors are crucial in cleaning up the mess of writers like us – and he cleaned a lot of the mess in my copy. No wonder that as cost-cutting newspapers eliminate copy editors and revise editors, there is a concomitant increase in next-day apologies and a dent in the credibility of our profession. A great lover of books, he read avidly and was therefore very knowledgeable. Which was hardly surprising as he came from a family of literary types. He was the grandson of Stanley Kiama Gathigira, one of the earliest published authors in Kenya, the author of MÄ©ikarÄ©re ya AgÄ©kÅ©yÅ© (Customs of the Kikuyu), which was published in 1934. Sometimes last year, I met Matt at a top hotel in the city. He was revising someone’s PhD dissertation and wanted to compare notes with me. Clearly, his contribution went beyond journalism to scholarship and publishing. Matt served the Kenyan media in various capacities as a sub-editor, revise editor, and as a writer who preferred to use false names. Some of his nom de plumes include Matt Ndekere and Joe Adama. The journalism profession in Kenya has a lost an irreplaceable and colourful icon. May his soul RIP. Lecturer, School of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Nairobi. muirucngugi@gmail.com