A National Anti-Corruption Conference will be held in Nairobi next month, NASA leader Raila Odinga has said. Raila on Friday said the conference will allow stakeholders and wananchi to share views on how to fight corruption. "People will speak. We shall listen and action will be taken," Raila said. He said the conference is as a result of recommendations by the 14-man team that was formed after the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta in March. "I met with the President, we agreed that this problem must be combated and culprits made to account for their sins," he said. Raila said the three-day conference will be used to collect views from the public which will enhance making resolutions to intensify the war on graft. He said corruption has crippled every department of government and the vice has become an impediment to the growth of the economy. Raila was speaking at Gechauri village in Nyamira County during the funeral of the Late George Ndemo Nyagarama son to Nyamira Governor John Nyagarama. He said the war on corruption is unstoppable and that it will go on until it is defeated. "We can't be running to our communities whenever we are told to account for the wealth we acquired illegally and start saying that we are being targeted", he said. Read:MPs failing Kenya in anti-graft war - Raila More on this: Fireworks over sugar as MPs reject report Siaya Senator James Orengo told off Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen over his remarks that the former Prime Minister is involved in the ongoing eviction of settlers in the Mau. He said it was irresponsible for Murkomen to make reckless statements which have no basis. "Raila is not in his league. He is a global icon that his boss Ruto cannot march," Orengo said. His sentiments were echoed by Homabay Senator Moses Kajwang who cautioned Murkomen and Rift Valley leaders against baseless remarks that can cause tension and unnecessary anxiety. National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohammed said the handshake was the best thing for Kenya as it bought unity. "The road to Canaan is still on course. Initially, we had a road that was bumpy and it led us nowhere. But now, we have picked on a new road that has the masses and we are sure of getting to Canaan," said Junet. Chief Justice David Maraga, Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Kisii Senator Prof. Sam Ongeri and a host of legislators from Gusii region were among the mourners. Also Read:[VIDEO] Declare corruption national disaster, enact life imprisonment for culprits - NCCK Click here for the latest political news