A cross section of Western leaders led by Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa have asked Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula to ditch NASA and join the Jubilee party. The leaders told Wetangula to stop hanging in an "abusive relationship". Wamalwa on Saturday told Wetangula that government doors are opened for him anytime. "Kikiumana huko mujue tuko hii pande ingine na tuko na nafasi. Ambia senator tuko tayari kama serikali baada ya handshake aje ajiunge nasi tufanyie wana nchi kazi," Wamalwa said. (When things are not working on your side, cross over this side(Jubilee). We have lots of space. He was accompanied by Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Mumias East MP Benjami Washiali. Wamalwa and Wetangula who for the past nine years had not seen eye to eye earlier on ended their truce last week and announced to work in unity for the community. The two said they will foster peace during the Bukusu Mabanga Declaration. Wamalwa said the deal was held after meetings to end the rivalry. “My rivalry with Wetang’ula has lasted since the era of the original Ford Kenya before it was split. We have now mended the fence,” he said. The Bungoma senator said the handshake will improve Luhya leaders’ unity. “We want to walk the talk. This agreement is a sign of good things to come.” See:Truce: Weta, Wamalwa to work in unity But Wamalwa said Wetangula is doing a disservice to himself hanging on unto a coalition that he has been abused, demeaned and threatened. "I have seen how my brother is being abused and threatened and am wondering why he should hold onto such marriage," Wamalwa said. Washiali in his sentiments said the Luhya community had made a resolution to move together united with Wetangula and Wamalwa on board. He said ending the truce between the two will give the Luhya nation a more bargaining power ahead of the 2022 race. Read:Embrace handshake to achieve Luhya unity, Wamalwa tells Mulembe leaders Eseli in his remarks dared their ODM counterparts in parliament to make good their threats to discipline Ford-K MPs over Wetangula remarks. Junet Mohamed had threatened to take action against ford Kenya if the party does not present a formal apology denouncing Wetangula's remarks that Ford-K was no longer part of NASA coalition. But Eseli said, "This political ultimatums and throwing of words by ODM that we must denounce Wetangula let them be reminded they did not vote us to parliament". Also Read:Wetangula and Musalia are cowards, CS Wamalwa tells Luhya community