The government has kicked off the recruitment of agents in readiness for registration of Kenyans into a single identification database. It is creating a single digital registration and identification platform to ease access to data. The system will be the "primary database and single source of truth for personal registration data" on all Kenyans and foreigners in the country. Assistant chiefs, who are the registration officers in their areas, have until August 3 to submit the names of five enumerators of the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS). In a letter to County Commissioners on July 23, Interior PS Amos Gathecha said priority will be given to people who have worked as IEBC clerks as they can operate biometric devices. Registration for the NIIMS has been set for October and November. Those who want to be enumerators must be aged 18-35, have KCSE level education with a minimum grade of C-, be residents of the wards they wish to work in, and be of good conduct, computer literate and available from August to November 2018. Those fluent in their area's main local language stand higher chances of getting the jobs. Possible enumerators must also have bachelor's degrees, diplomas or certificates of academic pursuits. They will submit original IDs, academic and professional certificates as well as certificates of good conduct. "Successful candidates must take the confidentiality oath before beginning the registration," Gathecha said. In an explanation on how the system works, ICT CS Joe Mucheru earlier said it will have up to date citizen information, from birth to death. The Principal Secretary noted that the NIIMS will help the government cut operating costs as well as detect or prevent fraud, impersonation or any other crimes. Key documents such as birth and school certificates, driving licences, Kenya Revenue Authority PIN certificates and passports will be accessed at the touch of a button. “The initiative is aimed at consolidating population registration information into a single database for ease of verification by both government and private bodies,” Mucheru said. The agencies include the KRA, National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and the National Social Security Fund (NSSF). Click here for the latest political news