Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said he is ready to try and put an end to the friction between ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula. During a mediation conference 2018 at Strathmore University in Nairobi yesterday, Kalonzo also said he is ready to reconcile Jubilee leaders who differed over the Mau Forest evictions and the war on graft. “While looking at the newspapers today (Thursday), I saw vibrant politics. Kenyans are getting tired of this type of politics. When someone says something, the next thing is fireworks,” Kalonzo said. The conference themed ‘Mediation for Development’ was organised by Dispute and Conflict Resolution International and the Institute of Certified Secretaries of Kenya. Kalonzo said politicians should not lose the “God-given virtue of tolerance” by attacking each other. “Now we have to mediate immediately. I am going to mediate between my brother Wetang’ula and Raila because ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and I have no problem,” he said. Read:Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested and charged with treason, ODM claims Fresh discord threatening the collapse of Nasa emerged following Wetang’ula’s attack of Raila during a TV interview on Tuesday. The Ford Kenya leader accused Raila of masterminding his ouster as Senate Minority leader in March and also said the ODM leader allied himself with Narc in 2002 and Cord in 2013 and then rocked them. ODM chairman and Suba South MP John Mbadi hit back at Wetang’ula whom he said is “suffering from discerning amnesia”. The Mbadi-led team demanded Ford Kenya MPs to denounce their party leaders’ remarks within 48 hours or be removed from top parliamentary positions. “It is very exciting to watch Kenya’s politics every day. Within Jubilee, we can do mediation and within NASA, I may need someone from Jubilee to come and help us. After all, we are one people and one nation,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader urged Uhuru to remain firm in the war on graft, adding that no one, regardless of their current or previous positions in government should be shielded from the purge. “We must end this culture of stealing from Kenyans. We steal in billions and I wonder what one will do with those billions. This vice must be dealt with now,” Kalonzo said. Also Read:Nasa united, ODM will revoke call for Wetangula's removal - Kalonzo Click here for the latest political news  