Gor Mahia FC captain, Harun Shakava, has predicted a very tough SportPesa Premier League (SPL) fixture against eternal rivals, AFC Leopards SC, at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani in Nairobi on Sunday. However, the Harambee Stars defender has urged his team-mates to rise to the occasion and aim for nothing short of victory against struggling Ingwe in the crunch tie fondly referred to as theMashemeji Derby. "I'm looking for a fourth successive win against the opponents as Gor Mahia FC captain." said Shakava "The victory has the potential to send us 12 points clear in the league", Shakava underlined at a press conference in Nairobi on Friday. He insisted they are ready for the match despite the fact that the game comes barely 48 hours after hosting former Tanzanian champions, Yanga SC, in a CAF Confederations group contest at the venue on Wednesday evening. "We have prepared well, the win against Yanga SC has also given us a morale booster. We feel we will win against Leopards on Sunday", he underscored. Shakava says Gor is also motivated by the fact that George Blackberry Odhiambo, Innocent Wafula and Ernest Wendo are all back in the squad after missing the CAF match. Odhiambo and Wendo had injuries while Wafula did not register for CAF, but their presence ahead of our meet with AFC has injected confidence in our club, he highlighted. While giving a hint of their game plan, Shakava said they will majorly control the match tempo as they know AFC Leopards are already under pressure to perform after going down against Gor in the last three meetings. "Our other reason to control the game is because we have played so many matches this season resulting in general fatigue. But I'm glad that everyone in the team is capable of delivering, so there is no alarm even when the squad is rotated by the coach", he emphasised. Tight security Shakava has told their fans to come out in large numbers and cheer K'Ogalo on the D-day. "I urge them to behave themselves the way they did during our meeting with Hull City FC. We have also put aside our troubles in Tanzania and issues on allowances to fully focus on this game", accentuated Shakava. Gor, who are leading the SPL standings with 49 points after 19 matches, won their last derby against Leopards SC , that was dubbed Hull City Challenge, 5-4 on post-match penalties in Nakuru County on May 1, 2018. Leopards who have vowed to teach the defending SPL champions a lesson are currently in fifth place with 36 points after 22 matches. The 84th Mashemeji Derby was postponed in June to allow the SPL winners the chance to play English second division side, Hull City FC at Kasarani on May 13, 2018. Meanwhile, security has been beefed ahead of the derby to give the fans the confidence to attend the game. "We have engaged the police who will man the outside and inside perimeters, stewards will manage the inner perimeters and the pitch while the security guards will control the gate and the parking lot. The bouncers will take care of the VVIP, VIP and hospitality tents", said Mathews Waria, Head of Security, SportPesa. "We want Kenyans to feel as though they are part of the match; we want them to enjoy the game on safe grounds. We have also engaged supporters from both sides who have pledged to show discipline during the encounter", Waria said. Tickets for the game will be sold on the match day at a booth outside Kenya Cinema in town and at Gate 3, 4 and 12 at Kasarani Stadium.