Some 42 students have been arrested in Nairobi and Embu for planning to burn their schools. In Embu, 23 students from Kangaru Girls’ High and five from Kangaru Boys’ High were nabbed. In the capital, DCI officers arrested 11 students from Aquinas Boys’ and three Huruma Girls students. Buruburu DCIO Jeremiah Ikiaop yesterday said preliminary investigations revealed that the 14 city learners planned to burn their dorms. They were charged and released on Sh50,000 bond each, pending completion of investigations. Ikiaop said police had started identifying and profiling students who riot. He said they will include pupils’ and students’ criminal records in police clearance certificates — usually called certificates of good conduct — should any of those found guilty apply for one. Many employers demand that job applicants provide the certificate to help them verify their backgrounds and suitability. Embu West subcounty DCI boss George Etyang said they seized five litres of petrol that was to be used in the schools. He said they got a tip-off and rushed to the institutions. Etyang said on Sunday the girls were seen communicating with the boys across a fence that separates their schools. Preliminary investigations revealed that the boys were to set ablaze the girls’ section, while the girls were to ‘reciprocate’ by setting two dorms on fire in the boys’ school. Etyang said the girls were to cause commotion that would trigger unrest, during which the properties would be torched. The girls were said to have raised the cash used to buy the petrol. The arrested Embu students are all in Form 3. Etyang said they would be charged once they complete investigations. The arrests come after two dormitories were bunrt by students of Nguviu  Boys High in Embu North on Sunday night. Three Form 2 students were arrested and charged with arson at an Embu court. The dorms housed more than 200 learners. All their belongings were destroyed. It was too late by the time the county firefighters arrived. Embu North acting police boss John Muisyo said principal Nicolas Mutisya reported both fires. It was said the students wanted their preps hours reduced. Some residents said they overheard others complain about the transfer of their former headteacher and said they wanted him returned. Police have said they will not relent on their operation to control school fires and stop wave of unrest that has rocked secondary schools across the country. On Saturday, DCI George Kinoti issued a warning that police will be archiving and profiling every criminal act committed by students. “This is to warn every pupil and student from primary and secondary schools, college and university that the DCI is archiving and profiling every criminal act and consolidating charges that may be preferred to each and every student involved in any crime,” he said.