MPs unhappy with President Uhuru Kenyatta's order freezing new projects plan to raise their objections in Parliament. The 40 MPs, led by South Mugirango's Sylvanous Osoro, will meet this morning to agree on the best way to raise their concerns before the House resumes sittings in the afternoon. "There are a number of options, so we will agree on the best way forward tomorrow (today)," Osoro told the Star. On July 20 Uhuru threw a spanner in the works, with far-reaching implications. He issued a directive freezing all new government projects until stalled or ongoing projects are completed. Read: Uhuru freezes new projects until ongoing ones are completed The President issued the directive to all accounting officers whom he warned would be responsible for sanctioning new projects without express authority from the Treasury. President Kenyatta said the directive was aimed at stopping resource waste and the habit of government agencies to abandon incomplete projects before embarking on others. “There will be no new projects embarked on until you complete those that are ongoing,” the President said. But yesterday Osoro said the President had no right to unilaterally freeze all projects that had been budgeted. "Some projects are urgent and affect millions of Kenyans. We want to know the rationale," he told the Star. Osoro supports Deputy President William Ruto and the interpretation among the DP's men is that Ruto could be the target because he has been launching numerous projects in highly publicised countrywide tours. It is not clear how or to what extent the President’s directive for specific Treasury approval would hobble or slam the brakes on the DP’s 2022 campaign strategy. The MPs are also unhappy about the move to have to have all projects approved by the judiciary and the Office of the President. The decision has caused confusion and fear among government officials who now claim that they do not know which projects to undertake. Uhuru’s decree that no new projects will be launched before the old ones are competed has caused confusion in his administration, with senior government officials adopting a wait-and-see approach. Most projects that were in the procurement process are now on hold, pending further directions. This means that all accounting officers in ministries, departments and state corporations have been stripped of the authority to okay development plans not sanctioned by the office of the President and Treasury. The decision to move approvals to the two departments was reached before Uhuru made the public pronouncement on July 20. “The President’s handlers are now literally sanctioning as well as monitoring development projects. Going forward, it will be on the President who will announce commencement of new projects,” a senior government official said. Yesterday it emerged that the pessimism and uncertainty had also been fuelled by failure by the Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua to issue a circular clarifying the Presidential directive on development projects. Read: What Uhuru’s freeze on new projects means Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who is also a member of the National Assembly’s Budget Committee, said Kinyua’s delay was paralysing government operations. “There is a problem currently. There is confusion and despondency in government. We thought there was going to be a circular but there is none yet,” he said. Kuria is also vice chairman of the Infrastructure committee which is worst hit by the ban on new projects, said it was not clear whether the order affected projects already tendered. “As a member of the crucial Infrastructure committee, our understanding is that the order was not supposed to affect projects that are within the procurement process. According to us, such projects are deemed as on-going,” the lawmaker told the Star. Kiambu MP Judy Njomo, also a member of the budget committee, said the freeze would result in delays in many ambitious projects. “I think it is basically doing one thing at a time. It is very imprudent to have half-done projects all over while at the same time starting new ones. His Excellency, the President, wants to make sure that public funds are properly utilised to the last coin,” Njomo told the Star. It is better to have delayed projects "than to have white elephants all over," the MP added. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka told the Star that he backed the President’s order on new projects to enable the government correct development injustices. “Some new projects are skewed towards the 'correct' areas when one has toed the line for political reasons. We are now creating discontent among Kenyans with skewed projects,” said the MP who is also a member of the budget committee. He said the freeze was critical to control the government’s appetite for borrowing that has pushed international debt to more thanSh5 trillion. “We have carelessly spent and over-borrowed money which is lent expensively. We have stolen most of it, as the projects have been used as conduits to siphon public funds,” the Ford Kenya MP said. Minority Leader John Mbadi, also a member of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, admitted there was confusion. “Uhuru’s order amounts to a new policy on his Big Four. There needs to be clarity about this freeze on new projects, especially when we know most of the agenda's four pillars are new projects,” the Suba South MP told the Star. The lawmaker said the government must be clear on what it considers new projects so the order doesn’t interfere with critical education projects being undertaken by National CDF. The Treasury must come up with a supplementary budget tabled in Parliament for MPs to approve reallocations. “How are the Big Four going to be realised? The reality of the projects and the new policy must be in tandem,” the MP said. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula hit out at Uhuru for issuing a blanket order against new projects when MPs had already passed the budget, saying he was frustrating Parliament. “What is the President going to do about new projects budgeted for and approved by Parliament?” the Bungoma Senator asked. North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko warned that the President’s order would undermine the many campaign promises he made to Kenyans. “The balance on development projects was the scorecard upon which Jubilee asked for reelection. This was the momentum upon which Jubilee was given another mandate. We must keep the development momentum,” he told the Star. “We made promises like technical training institutions, roads, water and hospitals that will be affected," he said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Jubilee was committed to equitable development countrywide and he defended the DP’s whirlwind tours to launch projects. “We try to present Ruto as the President’s principal deputy, harmonising  people's development needs," he said. As the President’s order threw a spanner in the works, Lugari MP Ayub Savula faulted Uhuru's freeze after MPs had approved the budget. Savula said Parliament must stand firm and ask Uhuru to follow due process if he wants to substitute new projects factored in the budget for the ongoing ones. He said it's the House that decides how taxes should be spent. “The Executive must stick to its implementation role. We shall ensure we conform with the budget process as we will not allow a blanket executive order that bans development,” the MP said. Savula claimed Jubilee would split following the President’s freeze, which he said had isolated the DP. More on this: Expert comment: Kenyans expect new projects not frozen funds Click here for the latest political news