A section of Busia MPs have welcomed the arrest of Governor Sospeter Ojaamong saying they support the war on corruption. The five MPs led by Matayos lawmaker Geoffrey Odanga dismissed claims of witch-hunt in the Wednesday morning arrests. They said government agencies should be given time to probe allegations of a plan to steal Sh20 million of county money. Read: DPP approves charges against Busia Governor Ojaamong Also read: Ojaamong arrested over Sh20m fraud claims The legislators said, however, that Ojaamong and his co-accused should be given opportunities to defend themselves. "Agencies mandated to play the oversight are the ones to ascertain whether money was stolen," Odanga said. He addressed the press accompanied by Wilberforce Oundo (Funyula), Oku Kaunya (Teso North), Geoffrey Omuse (Teso South) and Joseph Oyula (Butula). Oundo said: "Whether the Governor did well or not is not our business. We ask Busia residents to remain calm and let the agencies do their work. They will have a chance to decide in 2022. If the accused are found culpable, the law will take its course." Ojaamong said he was not arrested as he presented himself to the commission at its Integrity Centre headquarters in Nairobi. "Contrary to some sections of the media, I was not arrested. I handed myself to the EACC. As a law-abiding citizen, I will cooperate with the EACC i investigations," he said. The EACC said the Governor single-sourced a company called Madam R Ltd and gave it a tender for the service. Investigations began in 2016. Ojaamong is also facing the charge of conspiracy to steal more than Sh20 million from the county coffers. The Governor and three of his cabinet members have denied seven counts of fraud and will stay in police cells until Friday. They were remanded by Anti-corruption Court Magistrate Douglas Ogoti to the EACC police station pending a ruling on their release on bail. More on this: Ojaamong to spend two nights at EACC police station Also read: I won't be shaken by arrest or courts, Ojaamong says on Sh20m fraud claims Click here for the latest political news