AFC Leopards were dealt a massive blow as skipper Duncan Otieno and his assistant Robinson Kamura were yesterday ruled out of ahead of the Mashemeji Derby clash on Sunday at Moi, Kasarani Stadium. Otieno will sit out on suspension after accumulating five yellow cards while Kamura is out nursing an ankle injury which will keep him out of action for two weeks. The two Kenyan internationals who are regular starters of the Rodolfo Zapata coached side have left voids which their team manager has described as hard to fill but has exuded confidence with the available players. Otieno, a hard tackling midfielder and a respected leader on the pitch, has been a force to reckon in the midfield providing cover for the back four and occasionally deployed as a centre half when injuries and suspensions rock the back line. In his absence, Selebwa has lined the trio of Victor Majid, Said Tsuma and Edward Seda to jostle for the holding midfield role. He tipped Michael Kibwage to walk back to the starting eleven as Kamura’s replacement. “It’s a big blow for us to miss the captain and his assistant putting in mind the calibre of the match. They are the leaders on the pitch and good players who have several national caps. Luckily, we have able replacements and depth on our side and being a derby, I am confident those who will come in will want to prove a point and maybe impress the coach for a first team selection. Majid, Tsuma and Seda will fight to replace Otieno while Kibwage will assume Kamura’s roles.” Being the sole SportPesa Premier League clash this weekend, the rest of the teams are set to shift their focus to the SportPesa Shield Cup before resuming for round 24 next weekend where more players will serve their suspensions. Bandari’s Fred Nkata will serve a one match ban and so will Vihiga United’s Stephen Wakanya for piling five yellow cards. Tusker’s creative midfielder Hashim Sempala will miss two matches for one red card and five yellow cards this season. Click here for the latest political news