The ODM party wants the government to come clean on the allegations of mistreatment at SGR. In a statement on Thursday, the party said the government had not acted on the issues raised regarding racism, mistreatment of Kenyan workers, killing of wildlife and loss-making spree at the organization. SGR company has stated that the information published by the Standard newspaper was misleading to the public. "ODM vehemently opposes the government inaction and apparent cover-up that allows Chinese contractors to do to our citizens what Kenyan workers could never be allowed to do to Chinese citizens in China." Read: Atwoli demands deployment of SGR workers after expose' on 'mistreatment' The party stated that the dismissive attitude of the government into the allegations deserved serious and meticulous investigations. “Unfortunately, the government has seen no reason to act and has instead gone ahead to perpetuate more cover up while blaming the Kenyans reported to be victims of Chinese racism and colonialism and essentially throwing them under the train,” it stated. Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna said the government was mandated to protect the reporters who unearthed the story. “We take even greater exception at the fact that journalists are being targeted and maligned for doing their job and standing up for the dignity of Kenyans which is essentially the duty of the government,” said Sifuna. "The SGR was supposed to be a manifestation of our independence and our coming of age as a nation. It must not be the new source of slavery and the dehumanization of our citizens," added Sifuna. SGR operator CRBC yesterday denied claims that it mistreated local employees stating the published stories were misleading to the public. The firm, however, acknowledged that cultural differences and communication barriers were a challenge but promised it would seek to resolve the same. Kenya Railways is expected to submit a report in two weeks time on the findings and the way forward. Read: Senate summons Kenya Railways, labour CS over alleged mistreatment of SGR employees Click here for the latest political news