 Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) is set to establish Partnership for Aflatoxin Control in Kenya (PACK) Platform, an online information portal where stakeholders will hold periodic consultations and enable continuous information sharing regarding Aflatoxin control. PACK is a project under Aflatoxin Management Coordination Framework initiative by FAO in their efforts to curb food loss and wastage. In its report to the Star, aflatoxin contamination has been one of the major contributor to food loss and wastage in Kenya recurring in cereals especially Maize among other food crops. One third of the food produced globally for human consumption is lost or wasted before it reaches the market or consumed every year. This is approximately 1.3 billion tonnes. This is equates to not more than 100 kilo-calories per person being lost in a day. This also translates to waste of resources used to produce, manage and transport the food. The consequences are far reaching to farmers and traders remain poor as they do not get returns for their money. In monetary value, food losses and waste amount to about Sh3.1 trillion (310 billion dollars) in developing countries, including Kenya, andSh6.8 trillion (680 billion dollars) in industrialised countries. In developing countries, food waste and losses occur mainly at early stages of the food value chain and can be traced back to financial, managerial and technical constraints in harvesting techniques as well as storage and cooling facilities. A recent study by International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) established that Kenya had aflatoxin levels of between 0.02 parts per billion (ppb) to 9661 ppb with positive samples ranging from 75-100 per cent. The survey further showed that 25-100 per cent of feed in the farms exceeded required 5 ppb while 87-100 per cent of feeds bought from retailers exceeded the limit. 20-100 per cent of feeds from manufacturers were above the required 5 ppb. FAO in collaboration with the national and county governments through the National Food Safety Coordinating Committee (NFSCC) hasstrengthened the human and institutional capacities in aflatoxin control and management. According to FAO program associate in Kenya Stanley Kimereh the strategies have trained technical officers in 17 counties on aflatoxin prevention strategies and detection for effective service delivery. Some of these counties have been supported with aflatoxin detection equipment for monitoring and surveillance. The 17 counties include: Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kitui, Machakos, Makueni, Tana River, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Laikipia, Kirinyaga, Muranga, Nandi, Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia counties. United Nations agency will also launch Food Loss and Waste Reduction Strategy expected to provide overarching guidelines on food waste reduction to all agricultural programmes in the country. NFSCC members were drawn from the ministries of Agriculture, Health, Trade and Environment among insitutions like National Cereals and Produce Board.  