Maize farmers in the North Rift have given the state a one-week ultimatum to pay them Sh5 billion for maize delivered to the cereals board or they will hold daily protests in Eldoret. Director of Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said the state has ignored them, and they are left with no option but to paralyse operations in the town. He read statement after a farmers' representative meeting on Wednesday. Menjo said protests are the only way farmers can be heard. Menjo said the government did not include the maize debt in the budget and no one was explaining how the money would be paid. At the same time, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Jackson
Mandago on Wednesday pledged to help farmers cut maize production by 50 per cent. He spoke on at Tapsagoi in Turbo where he distributed 14,000 coffee seedlings. Mandago said maize farming was becoming wasteful "The future is bleak for farmers who continue growing maize. It is an unreliable business,” Mandago said. He said farmers were suffering because the National Cereals and Produce Board has not paid them for maize delivered in depots last year. “Many farmers are now poorer because
of relying on maize for many years. However we are working with experts to help them diversify," Mandago said. The governor told farmers to adopt coffee, macadamia and avocado crops because they fetch better profit. "I will make a follow up on the seedlings I have distributed. I don't
want to hear that they did not grow because they were neglected," he
said Mandago said his
administration would give loans to Tapsagoi Coffee Cooperative Society to enable
them buy Coffee Bulb Machines The governor said he would move from door-to-door to sensitise farmers on the need to plant alternative crops. Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno backed the governor. He said farmers need to be educated on other ways that can generate an income. Chemno said once farmers diversify
they would not have frustrations they face when waiting for payment of maize. "Coffee is the way to go. We can't lie to you. Diversification is the way to Canaan," he said.