The six form four girls who went missing last Tuesday were found in Thika town, Kiambu County, on Saturday evening. The students who attend New Nyaga Secondary School in Gatanga left their homes in Kiunyu village in school uniform but had regular attire underneath. Their parents reported them missing as they did not return in the evening. It was then that they discovered their children had not been to school on that day. Two of them are said to have taken off with their fees. Boda boda riders transported them to at Kiganjo estate where they were found. One of the riders said the girls told them they were "done with education and wanted to seek employment". Stephen Karanja, a parent who spoke to the Star yesterday, said one of his daughters posted photos of the six on social media in frantic efforts to find them. A pastor from Kiganjo area, who saw the photos, reported having seen several girls in her neighbourhood. She said they were in a house with two men. The pastor, Karanja said, contacted the chief and police officers and then gave them directions to the estate. “When we got there, three girls including my daughter locked themselves inside the house. Police had to break the door," he said. "The house belongs to a young man from the village who works as a casual labourer. He was not there at the time. We were shocked when neighbours told us that out daughters remained holed up in the house during the day and were taken away by the men at night." Karanja said the three other girls had already found jobs as house girls. They were traced with the help of residents. The parents asked police to arrest the boda boda operators as they could help their children run away again. “My girl is normally very quiet and sharp. She does not leave home and is always studying. I am afraid if the boda boda operators are not arrested, they will continue to be a negative influence on her and the others,” he said. Gatanga Deputy County Commissioner David Rotich said the students were taken to Makongeni police station for interrogation. Click here for the latest political news 