Four employees of Family Bank's Ruiru branch were arrested and charged on Tuesday with the theft of more than Sh20 million. The four are branch manager Charity Wanjiku, Jane Wanjiru, who is in charge of bank operations, security officer Robert Nduriru and operations supervisor Cyrus Mugo. They will remain in the custody of Kiambu police until July 24 when the case will be mentioned before senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo. The court issued this order after DCIO Paul Wambugu asked for permission to detain the suspects longer for investigations to be completed. Wambugu said some witnesses had not recorded statements and that more suspects will likely be arrested over the theft of Sh20,808,343. Investigators are looking into offences including breaking and stealing, conspiracy to commit a felony and negligence to prevent a felony. Lawyer Kimani Wakimaa opposed the investigator's application saying his three clients were trusted employees who had been running the bank. "My clients are entitled to bail or bond and the DCIO has not specifically pointed to any of the suspects, so he cannot clearly indicate if any of them was involved in the heist," Wakimaa said, adding the suspects were not flight risks. Lawyer James Ngugi, who is representing the other suspect, noted his client's right to freedom until charges are preferred. Prosecutor Christine Mbevi said there weren't compelling reasons for the release of the four. "Since some of the witnesses are their colleagues, they may interfere with investigations," she added. Atambo said: "Having considered the affidavit of the DCIO and the sentiments of counsels for all suspects, and due to the nature of the case and the amount involved, the DCIO is allowed to detain the suspects for seven days." Ruiru OCPD James Ng’etich, said bank security manager John Muchiri told them that on reporting to work, he found the bank's alarm tampered with and the fire alarm vandalised. Officers believe the crime was committed on Saturday or Sunday night. The criminals got in through the roof of the bank's kitchen. “They managed to access the strong room by cutting the door using welding gas cylinder power and the ATM machine using claw bars and the welding gas power,” the OCPD said. Police are in pursuit of bank cleaners and kitchen personel who are at large. Click here for the latest political news