Title: KTSE (Keep That Same Energy) Artiste: Teyana Taylor Genre: R&B/Soul Release: June 22  Teyana Taylor was the last artiste to release her full-length album from Kanye West’s label. It was part of GOOD Music’s five-week rollout of records last month. In order, they released Pusha T’s ‘Daytona,’ Kanye West’s ‘Ye,’ Kanye West and Kid Kudi’s joint album, ‘Kids See Ghosts,’ Nas’ ‘Nasir’ and eventually Teyana Taylor’s ‘KTSE’. While all other albums are hip hop albums and only have seven tracks, Teyana’s is an eight-track R&B project. When the LP dropped, it was marred by endless controversy. Kanye was accused of not having cleared particular samples that had been used on the album, which eventually stirred a conflict between him and Teyana. She has since announced that there will be no new version of ‘KTSE’, days after she expressed the need to revise the album. Well, whatever the case, the released version is actually mindblowing. We’ve seen different sides of Teyana that we’ve grown to adore. Her cameo on Kanye West’s “Fade” left the world in awe of her impressive dance moves and gorgeous figure. As an actress, you might have witnessed her brilliance in dance movies like ‘Stomp the Yard’ and ‘Honey: Rise Up and Dance’. But what stands out the most is her remarkable personality, which enlightens the album. Teyana’s sophomore studio album kicks off with “No Manners”, where she sings about having her partner NBA star Iman Shumpert, despite her eccentric nature. On “Gonna Love You”, she samples The Delfonics’ “I Gave To You” as she expresses how she got past the troubles of her relationship and remained truly in love. It’s on “Issues/ Hold On”  that we see Teyana urging her lover not to leave her. On this track, she samples Billy Stewart’s “I Do Love You”. We get to experience the contribution of the album’s executive producer Kanye West and guest Ty Dolla $ign on “Hurry” and “3Way”. On the latter, she expresses her sexual freedom, where she details how she’s willing to let her husband enjoy a three-way. “Rose of Harlem” takes us back to her struggles coming out of her hometown. It’s complemented by “Never Would Have Made It”, which is dedicated to those responsible for her journey to success. Teyana’s scrutiny of romance is quite liberal. She escapes the typical concept of love and gives the world a taste of what she believes it ought to be like. She introduces us to her reality and it quite interesting. Beyond all the awesomeness, Teyana is a talented soul with quite an awe-inspiring vocal range. Despite all the drama that came with the release of the album, she’s proven to the world that she’s not your average star. She’s a prodigy.  Star Rating: 4/5