The issue of
the Mau is extremely complex, emotive and controversial. The politicisation of
the matter by opposing camps is further worsening the situation. What is lost
in the avalanche of reasons, is the actual truth about the situation. We must,
therefore, debunk the myths and half-truths that nobody cares to speak about.  HALF-TRUTH
#1: IT’S ABOUT CONSERVATION  This is
perhaps the biggest and most inconvenient half-truth. There is no bigger myth
than the fact that the evictions were carried out for the sake of the environmental
conservation. The encroachment of the Mau was the result of political
maneuvering on the part of certain politicians, and the settlement of thousands
of peasant farmers was meant to achieve certain political ends. Conversely, the
eviction of the same people is also meant to achieve certain political ends.  When President Mwai Kibaki asked Prime
Minister Raila Odinga to undertake the eviction of Mau settlers, it was meant
to achieve certain political ends and the same is true about what Uhuru is doing.
If it was about conservation, Uhuru Kenyatta would have ordered the evictions
on his first month in office in April 2013. Or better still, he would have
ordered for evictions while on the campaign trail last year. But he campaigned
there and said nothing. Besides, it was his government that built schools and
roads there and also drew the ‘cut-line’, even planting tea around the
exclusion zone. The convenient excuse for eviction then becomes conservation,
which is just a half-truth.  HALF-TRUTH #
2: THIS IS NOT ABOUT TRIBE By far the
largest majority of the settlers are migrant Kipsigis from the neighbouring
Bomet and Kericho counties. Their coming and settling in the predominantly
Maasai Narok county (from as early as the 1920s) has consistently unsettled the
Maasai for many years. They have also upset the delicate political scales in
Narok and already a number of them sit in the county assembly and also in the
National Assembly. The name ‘Kipsigis’ means the reproducing ones, and they
have a much higher birth rate than the Maasai. Population pressure in Kericho
and Bomet saw many of them migrate to Narok. Many also went there due to the
eviction from their own lands to create the tea industry in one of those
documented historical injustices that the nation is not keen on addressing. But
the reality is that at their current rate of growth, Narok could be another
Kipsigis county in the foreseeable future. The influx of Kipsigis migrants has
profoundly changed the socio-political landscape in Narok and the fact that the
Emurua Dikirr parliamentary seat is under a Kipsigis, Johana Ng’eno, is part of
this emerging reality for the Maasai. Narok South, where the many evictions are
taking place, is already under threat of falling into the migrants. This is why
many a Maa politician is overtly or soundlessly indifferent the eviction.  HALF-TRUTH
#3: IT IS NOT ABOUT RUTO Deputy President William
Ruto has lately come under sustained pressure by those against his presidential
bid. Still smarting from a public (and private) declaration by some of his erstwhile
allies that they would not support his 2022 bid, it is difficult to imagine the
evictions were not meant to worsen his political woes. So sustained was the
pressure that he had to publicly state that nobody owed him anything and that
he had no political debts owed to him. His statement was considered
the declaration of a détente with his political enemies if only to ease the
pressure. But the evictions followed immediately, knowing full well what it
meant to him and what had happened in the past. In fact, a video clip of Uhuru
castigating Raila about the Mau evictions and even leading a fundraiser for Mau
evictees in 2009, has been doing the rounds on social media. He even said he
had even been cautioned against attending the function but he gallantly defied
Kibaki. He probably did not understand that Kibaki was coldly killing Raila
politically. Now the shoe is on the other foot. How predictable.  HALF-TRUTH
#4: IT IS NOT ABOUT THE HANDSHAKE In March this
year, around about the time of the handshake, President Kenyatta instructed
Ruto and the newly appointed Environment CS, Keriako Tobiko, to embark on a
Save-the-Environment mission. They issued a logging ban and proceeded to stop
the charcoal business, among other edicts. They never spoke about evictions. Then
the chemistry between Uhuru and Ruto went bad after the handshake and the
President now began to cannibalize his deputy. It began with
what was thinly veiled as the war on corruption and lifestyle audit. Then followed
the humiliating arrest of senior Kalenjin managers at the Kenya Power much to
the ire of Energy CS Charles Keter. Just before the dust settled, came the Mau evictions.
Then a pattern began to emerge. It became clear that Ruto’s political fortunes
were deliberately being pulled south. Senate Majority leader and Elgeyo
Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, seeing the potential political damage,
flew into the Mau and tried to stop the evictions. But it became quite apparent
to him that he was fighting a useless war. There was someone much more powerful
than he, that was truly determined to have the Mau settlers removed. He folded
his tail and watched as the evictions continued and he was quick to blame it on
the handshake. There are
those who agreed with him and those who castigated him for it, but if you trace
the point when the rain began beating UhuRuto, it has to be March 9.  HALF-TRUTH
#5: IT DESTROYED RAILA IT WILL DESTROY RUTO The Mau has
been the Waterloo of many politicians. It was in foraying into the Mau that
Prime Minister Raila burnt his fingers badly among the Kalenjin. But if the
evictions from the Mau were meant to destroy Ruto, then it will not achieve the
purpose. The manner it was carried out as well as the timing, presented itself as
a ploy to make Ruto look bad in his base and to lose popularity. Then his
arch-rival, Gideon Moi, who is on very friendly terms with Uhuru, moved fast to
make himself look good by siding with the evictees. But Ruto is not
Raila. Not being a Kalenjin it was easy to identify him as an aggressor
outsider which Ruto cannot be. Raila went into the Mau as an outsider, while
Ruto, who has not recently publicly said anything about the evictions, is an
insider. But
then, the Law of Unintended Consequences has seemingly kicked in. The whole Mau
saga has had the effect of galvanizing Ruto’s base back at home and quietening
his home enemies. There was a sobering reality about the whole issue.  THE GENESIS
OF THE PROBLEM As usual,
it’s the poor who suffer the most while the rich get away with it. Most of the
evictees are people who sold their holdings in the main Kipsigis country and
moved to Narok in the hope of getting more land. Much of the land was under
group ranches that had been de-established and subdivided into hundreds of
plots and quietly increased their acreage by expanding further into the forest. The genesis
of the Mau problem was the idea of group ranches created by the government
partially to deal with the problem of pastoral nomadism. Some of the proprietors
of the ranches got the idea to commercialise their holdings and so sought
permission to subdivide the huge tracts of land that bordered the forest. With
little or no clear boundaries, these ranches easily went beyond their
stipulated acreage. Much of the affected area was under the Sisiyan, Reyio, Enakishomi,
Enoosokon and Nkaroni Group Ranches.  THE BALOONING
GROUP RANCHES Powerful
political individuals representing powerful political families controlled these
group ranches. The Sisiyan Group Ranch for instance, ballooned from the initial
1,105 acres to 3,000 acres. Parcels of
various sizes were quickly curved out and sold to many unsuspecting non-Maa
(read Kipsigis) migrants. There were also individuals from Kisii and Nyamira.
Others such as The Nkaroni Group Ranch ballooned from 3,946 acres to 13,793
acres. The unscrupulous individuals were quick to get it off their hands and
there was a ready market. It made sense, therefore, for a Kipsigis man to sell
his two-acre piece of land in Kericho and get ten acres of this land. Many sold
and got the genuine titles, but many more got fake titles. Many had been conned
of their hard earned money. The evictions have affected the Sierra Leone,
Chemogoi and Kosian sections of the Mau which affects even the local
administration.  WHAT THE
EVICTIONS MEAN As the
evictions go on, nobody is speaking about the directors of the group ranches.
Nobody is talking about the surveyors, the Narok county land officials who
processed the subdivision and the politicians involved. Now what looks like a
localised problem, indeed affects almost all of the Kipsigis because many
bought land from those who rushed to the Mau to find cheaper (bigger) land but have
now been evicted. They too are jittery because they parted with their money to
facilitate these people to settle in Narok and could return to their former
holdings. Caught in the
middle of these are the Ogiek, who for centuries, had lived in the forest area
with no conception of or interest in holding individual titles. They too have
been affected and it was really much of their land that became part of the
ballooning group ranches. Besides, there is a quiet and delicate political
balance in the Narok government that could easily unravel as a result of these
evictions. Besides, the Maasai are undergoing tremendous changes. The death of
Moranism and the gradual death of pastoral nomadism — thanks in part to settlements,
is changing the Maa socio-political landscape.  RUTO’S
WATERLOO Enid Lakemann in her book How Democracies Vote: A study of Electoral
Systems states, “The rulers whom the people are
expected to obey should not only rule in their interests, but also rule
according to their wishes; and that the rulers should be accepted by the ruled
— this acceptance being no mere acquiescence but conscious choice.” She pretty
much sums up the position of Ruto among the Kalenjin, and which informs his
standing in the geo-political scheme of things in the Rift Valley. And this is
what whoever hoped the Mau issue would destroy him did not understand. He is
their leader by no mere acquiescence but their conscious choice.  This is really what was the difference
between Raila and Ruto with regard to the Mau. Ruto has captured the collective
aspirations of the Kalenjin people and this cannot be his Waterloo. If they had
designed it to be his Waterloo, it failed. But they almost succeeded. 