Deputy President William Ruto's vision is unclear but he will become President, political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has said. Via Twitter on Monday night, Ngunyi said Ruto "must shift from being a politician to being a leader",. "A politician is about elections. A leader is about vision. Ruto should talk vision, not elections. His vision is still unclear." Members of the public have discussed Ruto's political future since he has been on a massive charm offensive to expand his political base amid disquiet in his inner circles. The disquiet followed the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom Ruto is expected to succeed come 2022, and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The handshake has been viewed as designed to place roadblocks on the DP's path to power. Read: Is UhuRuto marriage ending before 2022? Also read: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ Ngunyi's view attracted at least 100 re-tweets and more than 60 responses. One Mwangangi was of the view that the 2022 presidential election will not be based on the 'tyranny of numbers'. "It will be [based on] who will change the past political dynasties .. that man is fortunately or unfortunately WSR the hustler. We all identify with him." But William Sonsok added: "How will he become President when the tyranny of numbers is dead? Kikuyus are divided on whether or not to support him." The anti-Ruto sentiment in Mt Kenya region gained momentum moments after the handshake. On June 28, the Kikuyu Council of Elders asked Ruto to retire together with Uhuru when his term expires in 2022, adding that they don't owe him. The fear of betrayal has forced the DP to scout for political allies, loyal politicians as well as influential power-brokers in Central Kenya to prop up his 2022 bid. He kept the succession debate alive over the weekend when he said that contrary to public perception, Kikuyus do not owe him anything. Read: We’ll negotiate with all presidential candidates in 2022 – Kikuyu elders Also read: Kalenjin elders slam Kikuyus for asking Ruto to keep off Uhuru tours Lucka Muthomi said Ruto will make a great President if he "stops singing political songs". One Misse Madranya criticised Ngunyi for turning to Ruto, saying he had been all about Raila and that his career got the boost it needed. Alicy told the analyst to drop that narrative. "Arap tangatanga has already figured out he got duped," the person said. Kip Kenyan said Kenya lacks leaders and politicians with vision. Petero Maina said Ruto will never win the top seat and added "how can we give a hyena our sheep to graze? His appetite for our resources is unrivaled." He accused Ruto of grabbing everything including school grounds for our kids. How naive are we to give ourselves away like that?" Ruto has, on several occasions, denied allegations of corruption. His latest explanation was on an NTV interview with Mark Masai who asked him about his wealth. More on this: [Interview excerpts]: I have never engaged in corruption, says Ruto Also read: GEMA nation won't make DP Ruto president, 'hustler' voters will - Mutahi Ngunyi '@GCheus' regretted that in Kenya, politics sells more than vision. "Ruto knows that and has reasons for playing politics. [Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Kiambu's Ferdinand Waititu] ran against visionary leaders and won." Dick Amunga agreed with Ngunyi but said 2022 is not Ruto's year and that he needs 10 years of mentorship. Click here for the latest political news