The past weeks were
expected to be politically tense with the internal fissures in Jubilee after
the Parliamentary Group was abruptly cancelled. But matters were
helped by the escalation of student unrest in the country. In tow were the MPs
throwing tantrums liberally at the joint parliamentary investigations of
illicit and contraband sugar. Successively, top Kenya Power chiefs were hauled before
the courts. The attention had all along been trained on Jubilee because of the
heat generated by the 2022 succession politics. With NASA having closed shop
early in the year, all eyes were now focused on the intense internal
competition that Jubilee would then have to deal with. It must have been,
therefore, good relief to the ruling party when the public attention was
shifted by the ne developments in the country. Lost in this melodrama is the
role of political parties and whether Jubilee or its rival ODM truly operates
as political parties. Parties are
social movements established for the sole purpose of seeking and capturing
state power. Once this objective is attained, party leaders gain legitimacy to
use their leadership vision to govern on behalf of the citizens. Parties are
organised on the basis of ideology. The ideological orientation distinguishes one
party from the other and sets it apart from the rest of the pack. They use the
party to mobilise the citizens by collecting and collating their interests
towards a national goal. These interests are then aggregated and formulated
into a development programme, normally presented as a manifesto during the
campaigns. It is during the campaigns that parties present their development
agenda and preferred candidates to the electorate. In liberal
democracies, the electorate votes and the candidate with majority votes
declared the winner. However, in truly party democracies, the electorate votes
for their preferred parties, which thereafter distribute their winning votes to
their candidates. They use the published party lists to appoint the winners to
various seats competed for. Therefore, the party with the majority forms the
government and nominates the head of the executive, usually the Prime Minister. The other
equally important role of the party is public policy formulation. This role is
for the ruling and opposition parties through sponsoring policy programmes and
monitoring their implementation. A party in opposition will play a critical
role by keeping the government in check and sponsoring pro-people legislation. Historically,
political parties played a key role in Kenya’s struggle for emancipation from
the colonial yoke. The early formations are associated with Harry Thuku at
Kikuyu Central Association and later Kenya African Union of Achieng’ Oneko,
Jomo Kenyatta, James Gichuru and  Walter
Odede. Later, after the emergency declaration, parties were formed on district
basis and prominent among these were the Nairobi African District Congress of
CMG Argwings Kodhek. NADC lost gravitas to Tom Mboya’s Nairobi Peoples
Convention Party after the 1958 election. Mboya had beaten Kodhek in that
maiden national election. Soon thereafter, Oginga Odinga’s clarion call of
Uhuru na Kenyatta gained momentum and by 1960, KAU was reorganised and renamed
Kanu, ostensibly to accommodate Mboya’s NPCP. Mboya was an organiser par
excellence. He is credited with infusing his labour organisation skills to establish
a formidable party in Kanu. He also benefited from his extensive international
exposure having been elected chair of All Africa Peoples Conference in Ghana.
His global labour movement connections came in handy in resource mobilisation
for the independence party. Kanu was thus
formed in the true sense of contemporary party understanding. To counter this
behemoth, the colonial interests overtly supported the formation of a rival
party, Kadu. It brought together leaders who thought they were marginalised in
Kanu during its launch in Kiambu. Daniel Moi, Ronald Ngala and Masinde Muliro
considered the posts given to them as nominal and more as tokens than
substantive. Without warning their parliamentary colleagues, they announced the
formation of Kadu and received support from their respective ethnic communities.
The seeds of ethnic mobilisation for political processes were thus sown and
with it tribalism firmly planted. Kanu won the
ensuing independence elections and formed the internal government in June and
subsequently the uhuru government in December of 1963. Kanu’s manifesto in
these two quick successive elections is still considered the most brilliant of
our recent times thanks to Mboya, Mwai Kibaki, Pio Gama Pinto and Wilson Ndolo
Ayah. History has not recorded anything significant on the Kadu manifesto but
they campaigned on the majimbo platform, which was secured in the Lancaster
constitution. However, what is clear is that while Kanu campaigned on the
platform of hope and opportunity for national development, Kadu sold fear of
exclusion to its base. Upon formation of the government, the Kanu manifesto was
reorganised into the all-time celebrated Sessional Paper No 1 of 1965. It was
the blue print for national development for the next decade and rightly credited
or blamed for our successes or failures respectively. In that period, the
parties played their rightful roles as envisaged by the early scholars of
democracy. Things turned
for the worse when Cold War intrigues took advantage of Kenya’s local ethnic
rivalries to scuttle party politics. Borrowing from his socialist orientations,
then Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga engineered the collapse of Kadu to
establish the one-party state. Kenya became a republic with an overbearing and
almost imperial presidency under the monolithic Kanu. The capitalist side of
the cold war divide helped jettison Odinga out of Kanu and the government soon
after. His attempts to establish an alternative party were thwarted by clever
machinations of Mboya, the Kanu secretary general. The fruits of
tribal party affiliation began to blossom with the 1967 little general
elections. Odinga’s Kenya Peoples Union returned successes only in Luoland.
Candidates from outside Nyanza in the by-elections were trounced, including the
KPU deputy leader Bildad Kagia. The ideological differences between Kenyatta
and Odinga assumed an ethnic dimension with catastrophic consequences. Kenya thus
remained partyless until Moi took over upon Kenyatta’s death. Moi resuscitated
the party to deal with the all-powerful bureaucratic civil service, which had
sustained Kenyatta’s rule. With the party, he created alternative power centres
outside of government and this led to the establishment of party dictatorship.
As a de jure one-party state, Kenya legally established a totalitarian
government. The citizens grumbled under the weight of heavy handedness of the
party and security operatives but the leaders ignored. When the leadership
responded, it was to detain, hound out of government or assassinate those with
dissenting voices. The collapse of the Berlin Wall and end of cold war was
therefore godsend to Kenyans. Moi was forced to accept political pluralism and
open competition. Multiparty democracy resumed. However, other than Kanu in the
1992 election, all the other parties were ethnic-based. Ford movement
crumbled under the weight of tribal jingoism with the arrival of Kenneth Matiba
from a London hospital. The opposition unity splintered into factions along
ethnic fault lines. Two major groups emerged with Ford-Kenya under the elder
Jaramogi Odinga and Ford-Asili under Matiba. Ford-Kenya under Odinga had a
semblance of regional balance with a sprinkling of MPs, one from central, and
handful from Eastern, Northeastern and has become entrenched in our politics.
The circus continued into the 1997 election, with Ford-Kenya splitting further
into NDP under Raila Odinga and the remnants under Wamalwa Kijana. The country
was firmly on the path of multi-ethnic democracy. The Narc tragedy of the 2003 betrayal of the
MoU between LDP and NAK (Raila and Kibaki) firmly consolidated the ethnic
balkanization of the country. The 2007 General Election was won or lost on the
premise of 40 vs 2 campaigns. Citizens paid little attention to the ODM and PNU
manifestos. The ethnic chauvinism of those in power rose to unprecedented
levels. The desire by those excluded from government to even the spoils of
independence drove Kenya to the edge of civil war. When the grand coalition
government was established, it was more of a coalition of tribal leaders than
parties. The subsequent elections of 2013 and 2017 followed a similar pattern,
with some presidential candidates totally avoiding campaigns in some counties.
What has befallen the country is regrettable but reversible. Columnist Charles
Onyango Obo averred that the rest of Africa should emulate Kenyans’ pragmatism
in politics. That our ability to avoid unnecessary party and ideological
encumbrances have enabled us to be dynamic. Kenyans are considered to be capable
of crafting the most unlikely of alliances for the benefit and prosperity of the
country. This uncanny skill in political dexterity should be our gift to the
region in quest of political stability and peace. The jury is still out as
regards the veracity of Obo’s postulation. Political party leaders together
with the national institutions should rise to the occasion and promote true
party politics. Party politics
is more progressive and democratic than ethnic mobilisation in political
processes. As it is, Kenya is de jure multi-party democracy but de facto multi-ethnic
oligarchy. This is anti-development and backward politics in a community of
modern and civilized nations.