There were loopholes in last year's sugar imports because the regulator was not involved. Thus, anything could happen since there are many shortcuts in importing contraband sugar. The evidence exists. Who knows? It could come through the Somali border, the most notorious. There's evidence such sugar finds its way into Nairobi. During the days of the Sugar Board, a surveillance department monitored import of contraband sugar. With disbandment of the Sugar Board, I don't know exactly how monitoring is done. But with regulated sugar, there are checks and balances in quantities imported. It's a requirement, for instance, that all importers get pre-shipment approval from the sugar Directorate. Besides quantities, there are also restrictions on type of imported sugar. Is it table or industrial sugar? If it's industrial, there are rules governing import under the Directorate. For me, this is the major loophole that plagues us. Imports cannot kill the sugar industry if they are regulated. If the quantum is generally held in check by the Directorate, there's no problem. It's only when imports are not regulated that one could talk about the death of the sugar industry. So people who say imports would kill the sugar sector are misinformed. What will kill the sugar industry in Kenya is mismanagement and misdirection. The managers of state sector sugar industries and their boards of directors are the problem. Firms like Nzoia, Muhoroni, Chemilil and Sony have a Treasury and Agriculture ministry representative on their boards and they attend every meeting. I think we should adopt the Magufuli attitude towards government institutions. If corporations are not bringing dividends to Treasury, they should not wait for government to dismiss them. The year they don't deliver dividends, they should exit by themselves. How come private mills are doing well? West Kenya, Butali, Kibos. Are they complaining? No, yet they get nomoney from government. The parliamentary probe on poisonous sugar is a waste of time. In fact, politicians are the major problem of the sugar sector. The ex-Sugar Board chairman spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news   