Kenyans dominated Round One play of the foursomes as the third edition of Victoria Cup teed off yesterday at VetLab Sports Club. The chilly weather did not dampen the spirits of the home players at the 18-hole course which is hosting the prestigious two nation event for the first time. In the early morning foursomes, Daniel Nduva and Agil Is Haq defeated the Uganda duo of Hadif Muhumuza and David Kamui 1-0. Nduva and Haq, who are teammates at Nyali Golf & Country Club, combined really well, taking the battle to the visitors. The duo are some of the players who were spotted from the evergreen Nyali production line which keeps churning juniors year in, year out. Dennis Saikwa and Mike Kisia also beat Mwanja Becca and Gaita Rodel 1-0. Multiple former Kenya Champion John Karichu and Paul Muchangi of Kenya were in a class of their own and proved quite formidable for visitors Joseph Cwanyai and Herman Mutebi with a 1-0 win. Reigning Kenya amateur champion Edwin Mudanyi, playing on home turf, savoured victory in company of junior player Mutahi Kibugu when they vanquished the Ugandan duo of Richard Baguma and Ronald Bagumayo. Mudanyi was among the four players, who represented Kenya at the recent Sunshine Tour-sectioned KCB Karen Masters alongside Mutahi and Karichu. Both Kenya and Uganda are fielding a total of 10 players for the tournament in pursuit of the coveted trophy donated by legendary Marathoner, Moses Tanui. Victoria Cup has since inception in 2016 reinvigorated the brotherly sporting rivalry between Kenya and Uganda and has grown over the years, placing it on the calendar for well-sought golf events. The equivalent of Elgon Cup in rugby and CAC FIM Africa Championship in motocross, the tournament is played on the Ryder Cup format, and kicked off with foursomes yesterday followed by the fourball better ball in the afternoon on Day one. Play resumes today with Kenyans maintaining their dogged campaign in search of a rare hat-trick. The event comes to a close with the subsidiary plays on Saturday morning, followed by singles in the afternoon. The inaugural tournament took place at Muthaiga Golf Club in 2016 before moving to Uganda’s Entebbe Golf Club in 2017; where the Kenyans lifted the trophy on both occasions by beating the Ugandans with a single point (2016) and two points (2017).