The Court of Appeal has reinstated Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo whose election had been nullified. A three-judge bench led by Justice Erastus Githinji ruled that claims of massive irregularities and illegalities were not proved. Githinji said there was no evidence the final results during the August 8 elections were interfered with. The judges dismissed the finding by High Court judge Kanyi Kimondo that two unregistered polling station were used during the polls. Kangogo defeated former MP Linah Kilimo by 1,000 votes. Voter Sammy Kemboi filed the petition at the High Court. Kangogo appealed. “We find the petitioner did not discharge the burden of proof on the alleged irregularities and illegalities, which could have affected the elections,” Justice Githinji. Petitioner Kemboi had accused the IEBC and its returning officer Martin Wekesa of not carrying out a free, credible or verifiable election. But Kangogo in his appeal cited 26 grounds and urged the court to overturn the decision. The petitioner had cited broken seals found inside sealed ballot boxes in Mungwo and two other polling stations. But the judges said there was no evidence of tampering of ballot papers. “The presence of broken seals was not proof that the ballots had been interfered with,” Githinji said. He said the High Court made speculative conclusions on the broken seals without the petitioner providing evidence of the tampering. The judges said the petitioner had indicated that a large number of Forms 35A and 35B were not signed, but he did not prove it. The court further said errors in some of the election forms were insignificant to alter the results. “The petitioner did not prove that a sizeable number of votes were not accounted for,” the judge. Kangogo garnered 30,214 voted in the election, while Kilimo came second 29,573. The judges said the differences in figures when the results were declared only amounted to an arithmetic issue in terms of aggregate number of votes. The court ruled that Ebukara and Ketimenget polling stations, claimed to have been unregistered, were relocated and no voters failed to cast their ballots because of the changes. Kemboi will pay costs of the suit to Kangogo. The MP said he was happy with the ruling and welcomed his rivals to work with him.