Water and energy solutions company Davis & Shirtliff has warned counties from drilling unplanned boreholes saying they risk depleting ground water resources in the country. The company has said indifference to the legislation that governs
drilling of boreholes could ultimately have adverse effects on the aquifers and
the quality of water in them. CEO David Gatende said it was time
Kenya sought ways to protect her surface and underground water resources
effectively. He gave examples of instances where people are drilling
boreholes within few meters of each other yet the law requires boreholes must
be at least 100 meters apart. "Drilling boreholes is a science that must follow strict
rules to ensure they are beneficial to all dynamics including the environment." A number of county governments normally resort to boreholes to stem water shortages in their jurisdictions. Read: Garissa to spend Sh1.6bn for boreholes to end shortage Also read: Boreholes in all wards to cost Bungoma Sh100m "People are looking for the cheapest and quickest way to have boreholes and this
is threatening to deplete the resources," Gatende said. He noted that before drilling a borehole, both a
hydro-geological survey and an Environmental Impact Assessment test have to be
carried out. "Failure to carry out a thorough due diligence can cause a
number of problems to the aquifer the borehole will tap from," Gatende said. "Due diligence involves making sure that the material used
to construct the borehole will not for example contaminate the surrounding area." Gatende added that it was important to involve hydrogeologists
who design and carry out tests that make sure the borehole performs as expected. In 2016, Nairobi County alone reported 4,000 illegal
boreholes that had been dug without the authorisation from the supervising
authority which is Water Resources Management Authority (WRMA). The report at the time stated that out of about 6,000
boreholes in the city, only 2,000 were in the WRMA’s borehole database system. Gatende, however, stated that Kenya had enough water resources
for all types of use including irrigation. "But the sustainability of these resources is pegged on
proper planning and flagrant disregard for best practice would be disastrous
for the country." Some of the issues that may arise from lack of due diligence
before drilling a borehole include depletion of the aquifer, especially if the replenishing of the aquifer
was not put into consideration, and having a dry or low yielding borehole among
others. Also see: Boreholes relieve Nakuru women, children of long treks to find water Click here for the latest political news 