The Nairobi county will spend Sh28 billion for the Dandora waste-to-energy recycling plant. Governor Mike Sonko said the county is in the final stages of awarding a contract for the construction of the Dandora plant. "Let me take this opportunity to inform Nairobians that my administration is in final stages of awarding a contract for the construction of this plant that will solve a lot of our waste disposal challenges," said Sonko. The recycling plant is expected to eliminate the need to relocate the dumpsite, as City Hall will use waste to generate clean, renewable energy. The plant is expected to produce 160MW per day.  Governor Mike Sonko leading city cleaning exercise in Nairobi- /GPS Speaking during the launch of the Nairobi monthly clean-up exercise, Sonko said other countries like Sweden, Norway, Morocco and Ethiopia have done it. He was accompanied by his entire administration among them, majority leader Abdi Guyo, county secretary Peter Kariuki and the executive members and MCAs. "It is possible for Nairobi to do it too. We expect to break ground in December 2018," said Sonko. The plan to set up the multi-billion power plant at the Dandora dumpsite was revived after the county government finally acquired a title for the land. Sonko said the monthly clean-up exercise will help restore the lost glory of Nairobi and be able to live up to its name 'The Green City in The Sun’. Among the areas where he supervised the clean-up includes Westlands, City Cabanas, Dagoreti south among other areas. "To restore Nairobi’s lost glory, it has to begin with every resident getting involved. The cleanliness of your neighbourhood is our collective responsibility," said the Governor. Sonko said in the 1990s when the population of Nairobi City was about two million, it had over 250 garbage collection trucks, and garbage skips in all areas. However, when he took office in August 2017, he only found 60 trucks, and half of them were broken down. Sonko said the contractors who were engaged to collect garbage barely had a combined 50 trucks between them. Read: Dandora power plant: City finally obtains title deed as firms apply He said this cannot match the Nairobi's 2,500 tonnes of garbage produced daily. "We have the capacity to collect only 2,000 tonnes per day. Today, we have about 135,000 tonnes of accumulated waste in our rivers, estates and illegal dumps. It is my pledge to increase my administration’s capacity to collect this waste," said Sonko.  City residents taking part in the cleaning exercise. /GPS He said they have provided in the budget an allocation to build central garbage collection points in all the wards, where residents can legally leave their garbage for collection. "I, therefore, urge all to be vigilant against illegal dumping," he said. Guyo said that its time to focus on services delivery and people should stop blame games. “We are in support with H.E the governor come what may. He is our choice no one should tell us on how to manage ourselves,” he said. Click here for the latest political news