Former holders Wiyeta Girls’ Under 16 football side displayed class to outwit defending champions Olympic Mixed 5-0 in their pool ‘A’ Copa Coca Cola match played at Hill School, Eldoret yesterday. Jecinta Kenana and Juliet Anyango netted a double each as Sarah Nanjala registered one under her name to secure their team the huge win. Kenana grabbed an early goal barely nine minutes into the match before adding the second in the 37th. Anyango was on the mark in the 24th and 40th minutes with the third and fourth goals respectively. Nanjala wrapped the score 5-0 in the second half with a 50th minute goal. In the second Pool ‘A’ match, St. Anne’s Sega defeated Central Region’s Alliance High 3-0 with goals from Sharon Onino, substitute Violet Achieng and skipper Rose Ogutu. Nyanza’s Riyabu School and St. Peter’s Mumias started their Copa Coca-Cola Under-16 campaign on a positive note, both winning their opening ties. St. Peter’s beat North Eastern’s Subunley 5-1 with Kevin Haggan’s hat-rick. Jack Oloo and Ben Stanley added a goal each. Feisal Abdi netted Sabunley’s consolation goal. “The win is a huge morale booster for team and it will propel the boys into title contention,” said St. Peter’s head coach Moses Kibengwa. In the other duel, Riyabu’s Evans Onsongo’s free kick thunderbolt from the 30-yard mark in the opening minute sunk St. Cyprian’s spirits. Solomon Ondari then sealed Riyabu’s 2-0 win 10 minutes later as the second half ended goalless. In the boys’ U-19 football, multiple holders Kakamega High School’s Green Commandos hammered Kathungi 4-1 while three-time winners St. Anthony’s Kitale outran Ringa 4-0 in Pool ‘A’ matches. Rashid Abdulrahman opened the scoring at the quarter hour mark to give the 2017 semifinalists Kathungi a 1-0 advantage. However, this lead only lasted eight minutes as Kakamega High got their groove moving when Kevintom Machika leveled the scores in the 23rd minute and Joshua Otieno added the second in the 35th. Machika pounced once again, taking Green Commandos’ lead to 3-1 a minute before going to the break. On resumption, Dan Oloo added salt to injury with a goal in the 51st minute. Against Ringa Boys, St. Anthony’s talisman Eli Sakenyi scored in both halves of the game (12th and 66th minutes) as James Kibande scored in the 76th minute and extra. In the girls’ football U-19, Wiyeta whitewashed Matuu Memorial 11-0 as Bishop Njenga trounced Kwale Girls 3-1 in the other Pool ‘A’ fixture.