Switzerland has pledged to return billions of shillings in corruption proceeds to Kenya following talks between Presidents Uhuru Kenyatta and Alain Berset. At a joint press conference at State House in Nairobi on Monday, Berset noted that the two countries enjoy close relations. He said a framework for the return of the money had been designed. "Switzerland will return financial assets that have been blocked ... from Anglo Leasing and other crimes. Switzerland and Kenya enjoy a common interest in fighting corruption," he said. Switzerland blocked financial assets related to the scandal amid judicial proceedings in Kenya. The conclusion of the proceedings will allow the Swiss to return the assets. Berset noted that his country had returned illegally acquired assets to countries such as Nigeria. "We freeze and return stolen assets. Through the partnership, we will know how best to rerun the assets," he said. Berset, 46, is on a four day official tour of Kenya that will see him visit Dadaad refugee camp. Read: Broadening Swiss - Kenya relations Also read: Strong devolution best serves the people - Swiss President Uhuru reiterated that corruption will not be tolerated in Kenya. "I am pleased that after negotiations, we have agreed on a framework on returning the money. Actions for returning the proceeds has begun," he said. The President said they also signed an agreement that will equip investigative bodies with new instruments for fighting graft. "Returning wealth to Kenya is important as it will be put to work. Asset recovery sends the message that corruption does not pay," he said. Corruption has eaten deep into Kenyans' pockets and since big fish convictions are the goal have been the promise but they have been elusive. The disease struck and proved difficult to resolve during the era of founding President Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, who served as from 1964 to 1978 when he died. Uhuru, who is Kenyatta's son, has launched a intense war on the vice in his second and final term as President. More on this: Corruption in Kenya goes way back: Which President will tame the vice? Click here for the latest political news