What is KWS hiding in regards to the dead rhinos? Kenyan conservationist Paula Kahumbu has posed. Seven black rhinos died in unclear circumstances at the Tsavo East National Park last week and the Kenya Wildlife Service has refused to comment on the deaths. They were among 14 rhinos that were moved from Nairobi and Lake Nakuru national parks two weeks ago by KWS and the World Wide Fund. "I woke up to the shocking news of the tragic loss of seven rhinos ...The news is all over social media and the press, although KWS has either denied or refused to make a statement," Kahumbu said. "What are they hiding?? Rumors and suggestions abound ... and it’s not surprising." Via Facebook on Friday, Kahumbu said deaths of rhinos were a major conservation tragedy, not just for Kenya but for all rhinos. "It’s surprising because KWS has conducted many successful large scale translocations of rhinos before. Losing one in 15 is an acceptable loss - but never have we seen such huge losses," she said. Kahumbu said the translocation is a complete disaster and Kenyans must demand an explanation and full transparency. She also wants reassurances that Kenya will adopt the best practices in wildlife translocations. "Moving rhinos is complicated and risky, akin to moving gold bullion, it requires extremely careful planning.. But unlike Gold, rhino translocation also have major welfare considerations," she said. Noting that she dreads to think of the suffering the poor animals went through before their death, Kahumbu said KWS must speak up and explain to Kenyans what exactly happened. "We need to know what went wrong so that it never happens again. I hope that the CS for Tourism wastes no more time in making a statement to Kenyans about this incident," she said. Director of public communications at Ministry of Tourism Mulei Muia said he was not aware of the deaths. Kahumbu said the government should demand a full investigation and to put in place measures to prevent this from ever happening again. "I am convinced that this could have been avoided. Feeling very very angry and totally gutted," she added. WWF in a statement to newsrooms said the translocating wild animals of this size is extremely challenging and not without risk. "...black rhinos are under enormous threat so efforts to try and better protect them, such as translocation, are crucial for future generations,” WWF said. The health status of Caroline, an eight-year-old black rhino, that was sedated with a dart from a helicopter on June 26, blindfolded with a turquoise-coloured cloth ready for the seven-hour trip to her new home, remains unknown. Caroline was among 14 rhinos that secured a new home in Tsavo East rhino sanctuary. Eight were from the Nairobi National Park while six were from Lake Nakuru National Park. More on this: Mystery shrouds fate of translocated rhinos, seven reportedly dead On May 5, three black rhinos were killed by poachers in the Meru National Park and their horns hacked off. The three included a calf. Wildlife population has increased over the last two years with Kenya now having the fourth largest number of elephants at more than 34,000. Read; Security tight after three rhinos killed Click here for the latest political news 