Did a lawmaker from Nyanza describe NASA leader Raila Odinga as ‘mourner in chief’? Well, the Facebook post by second-term MP has stirred the hornets’ nest among Raila’s allies with many accusing him of ridiculing and belittling the opposition leader. The MP, also a close confidant of Raila, took to Facebook immediately after the requiem Mass for Migori Senator Ben Oluoch Okelo to announce that the ODM leader will be the ‘mourner in chief’ during today’s burial. ***** The arrest and prosecution of governors involved in corruption has sent a county boss from Eastern region into panic. The man is said to be doing all he can to cover up his mess, but unfortunately sleuths from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and those from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations already have sufficient evidence to charge the governor. The county chief has made several attempts to have the powers that be to come to his rescue, but all in vain. ***** Did Siaya Senator James Orengo mix his oversight role and legal duties when he took up the case where Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong is accused of corruption? Well, Corridors at the weekend overheard some MPs questioning why the Senior Counsel was quick to offer legal representation to Ojaamong, who was arrested following claims of corrupt practices in his government. According to the two lawmakers, Orengo should have been the last to represent the county boss owing to his position as a senator since he is expected to oversight counties. “There are many lawyers who can offer the legal services to such characters, but not Jim, who should take lead in condemning any allegation of theft in counties,” one was heard saying. ***** When will the Nairobi county government act on mechanics and kiosk operators who have taken over a road in Lang’ata. The cabro-works road which runs from Deliverance Church to Nula estate was build by the developer who put up the houses. This was after consultation with City Hall, which had for years left local residents at the mercy of earth roads. Mechanics now brazenly operate on the road while traders have taken over the pavements, leading to numerous accidents. The residents are now appealing to Governor Mike Sonko to help them.