Raila Odinga's ODM party has asked Nasa principal Moses Wetang'ula to give up all Ford Kenya leadership positions in the coalition. Secretary General Edwin Sifuna issued a statement on Tuesday after Wetang'ula said the National Super Alliance is dead. Sifuna asked Wetang'ula, who is also Bungoma Senator, to pull his troops from committee posts by virtue of the coalition. "It is time to put your money where your mouth is, Wetang'ula. We invite the Ford Kenya leadership to demonstrate by action that they no longer consider themselves part of Nasa," he said. Sifuna asked Wetang'ula why they were taking too long to quit the coalition. "For the umpteenth time, we remind Wetang'ula that coalitions are not dissolved at funerals and village barazas. As a senior lawyer, he should know this can only be done by formally writing to the Registrar of Political Parties," he said. "If indeed it is the desire of Ford Kenya to quit Nasa, what is taking so long?" Wetang'ula said Nasa is dead but he will not join Deputy President William Ruto's camp. He wants to strengthen his party ahead of the 2022 general election. More on this: NASA is dead but I'm not joining Ruto - Wetangula Also read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge In March this year, Wetang'ula declared a political war against Raila after losing his Minority Whip post. He accused Raila of betraying him and the other Nasa principals and said "we have regrouped to teach you a lesson". But Sifuna said the Ford Kenya boss was among the people who betrayed Raila when they "chickened out of the swearing-in of the Peoples President" on January 30. Nasa brought together ODM, Ford Kenya, ANC (Musalia Mudavadi) and Wiper (Kalonzo Musyoka), the idea being to be a force strong enough to get Jubilee Party out of power. Plans have changed since Raila did not win the presidential election. In addition, he decided on March 9 to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta on national healing, reconciliation and development. Also read: Raila to Wetangula: I did not plot your downfall Click here for the latest political news