Instead, Joho will work
with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, the Kanu national chairman and other
“like-minded” leaders. Joho’s disclosures will
divide Coast politics into two major camps — one fronted by the Mombasa
governor and the other spearheaded by dissenting MPs, who have already expressed
support for Ruto.  These MPs — the majority
of them from ODM — are drawn from all the six counties of the Coast.  They also enjoy the unsolicited support from
governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Salim Mvurya (Kwale) and Granton Samboja
(Taita Taveta). Governors Fahim Twaha (Lamu) and Dhadho Godhana (Tana River)
are yet to pronounce their stand. From this stand point,
Joho can be viewed as a lone ranger among the county bosses. However, he has had the
support from half a dozen MPs, among them Likoni’s  Mishi Mboko, Changamwe’s Omar Mwinyi, Mvita’s
Abdulswamad Ali, Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki, Woman Representative Asha
Hussein and her Kwale counterpart, 
Zuleikha Juma Hassan.   Only
Ganze’s Teddy Mwambire has vacillated over the issue. Last week he called his
protesting colleagues “traitors,” only to reverse his rhetoric as he crouches
towards the Ruto camp. Among other things the
Ruto camp has demanded is the Coast has to be in government now and in the
future, which some of them say Ruto will head.  
The rationale is that being in government will attract development in
their constituencies.  Some of these MPs,
such as Malindi’s Aisha Jumwa and her Mswambeni counterpart Suleiman Dori, have
declared support for Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, irrespective of the threats
of sanctions from ODM national leadership. Other MPs in this group
are asking for the formation of a homegrown coastal party, citing years
opposition fatigue. In Kwale, these past two
weeks, the rebel MPs asked Joho to join them or render himself irrelevant.  That threat was meant to isolate Joho, if he
refused to toe the line he has now bolted. As old alliances break
down and new ones emerge, the Coast is yet to see a political transformation
towards 2022.  At home, the emerging
political divide is between Joho on the one hand, and Kingi, Mvurya and
Samboja, on the other.   Outside the
Coast, this political divide translates into support for Raila Odinga and
Gideon Moi, on one hand, and Ruto on the other. The effects are already
being felt.  The old Joho-Kingi alliance
is tearing apart. The Ruto group vows that the Coast region will “never again
be in the opposition” and they have rejected Joho’s presidential bid as
“untenable.” On his part, Joho has
vowed to frustrate Ruto in his endeavors to penetrate the Coast. What can be said for
sure is that the emerging political drift, left unchecked, has the potential of
upsetting ODM’s chances in 2022.  This
would be devastating for a party that has monopolised Coast elections since
2007.   The new alliances can also
isolate Joho and threaten his grip on regional politics. This should be
particularly so if the rebel MPs could induce a bloc vote from their respective
counties in 2022. In the meantime,
however, Joho calls the shots. Furthermore, Coast politicians
are unpredictable. If push comes to shove, they change colours for
self-survival like the proverbial chameleon does.    Some of the MPs supporting Ruto still owe
direct allegiance to ODM, Joho and Raila. 
They know renouncing the party at this time may lead to fresh elections
that would spell doom to their careers. In Coast people vote
parties not personalities, and the popular party is ODM. This means despite the
threats and protests, Joho is still politically relevant, and he will remain so
until the alternative is found. Nevertheless, this is
not something Joho should crow about: He certainly needs to re-invent himself
to counter the emerging challenges.   He
has hard choices to make, if his political career is to be secured after 2022.  In other words, he must hit or miss. The choice is this:  Joho must own a political party by 2022,
failure to which his political career should be considered doomed.  History can hardly go wrong.  In the post-Independence period, we have had
leaders who had every opportunity to lead the Coast.   Unfortunately, they rose and fell with
time.  Recent examples include Katana
Ngala, Najib Balala, Gideon Mung’aro and Francis Baya, among many others who
failed the Coast. The current crop of
politicians on the rise should not follow suit. 
The Coast is desperately in need of at least one unifying leader and a
viable political party to match.   I met
with Ronald Ngala at Parliament buildings in
Nairobi, over lunch, when I was a student. 
That was in 1970, two years before he died in car accident. Speaking before a group of
Coast MPs, Ngala said in Giryama, his mother tongue, that “Nyumba hatha kala ni mbidzo ela
si yako, kaina uthana.” “No
matter how comfortable a house should be, there is no pride if it does not
belong to you.”  In
November 1964, Ngala had reluctantly dissolved his own opposition Kadu party to
join the Kanu government, as a Cabinet minister.  But, he had been uncomfortable in somebody
else’s house. Since the re-introduction of
multiparty politics in 1991, the Coast region has operated from a party and
leadership vacuum.  Our politicians have
thrived in the comfort of other people’s political parties. Who will lead the
Coast?      