In a press release
announcing the decision, the AU explained that there was an “urgent need to
curb corruption, which is a major societal flaw causing setbacks in the
socioeconomic and political development of the continent. Corruption continues
to hamper efforts aimed at promoting democratic governance, socio-economic
transformation, peace and security, and the enjoyment of human rights in the AU
member states.” The timing of this
decision is significant here in Kenya. Late last year, having finally ended a
prolonged electioneering period, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced he would
focus on the Big Four agenda in his second and last term. This ambitious programme
includes lofty goals such as creating 1.3 million manufacturing jobs, achieving
universal health coverage and building 500,000 affordable houses. However, the President
was well aware that his ability to implement this vision was severely hampered
by the rampant corruption, which is estimated to drain over 10 per cent of the
national budget. While this corruption predates Uhuru, and he most certainly
cannot be held responsible for what is a long-standing, national problem, there
was, I believe, recognition that in his first term, his focus was on other
issues. Not enough was done to fight corruption. Over the subsequent six
months, Uhuru has wholeheartedly embraced this continental directive, turning
the fight against graft into a personal crusade. He has refreshed and revamped
various anti-corruption agencies, bringing in new faces and renewed energy and
determination to the war on graft. This has resulted in
dozens of arrests of senior officials for alleged corrupt practices, and a raft
of new regulatory and preventative steps, including lifestyle audits of all
public servants and fresh vetting for heads of procurement departments. It is
clear Uhuru means business. Equally strong has been
Uhuru’s increasingly tough rhetoric, which has begun to describe the fight
against corruption in almost its existential terms. This was perhaps best
articulated in his address at the US-Kenya Trade Conference last month, where
he explained the fight as “…a fight against the vice that denies our people
jobs. It is a fight against the vice that denies our people essential services.
It is a vice that denies us of our ability to develop our country and to
protect the next generation.” So committed has Uhuru
become to the anti-graft fight that he has ruffled certain people’s feathers.
The Council of Governors cautioned him not to overstep the mark with his
crackdown on corruption, while certain allies of the Deputy President have
claimed they are being unfairly targeted. But the truth is that
irrespective of the merits of these arguments, you cannot take on graft without
controversy. As the saying goes, you cannot make an omelette without cracking
eggs. When investigations begin, certain people will feel under attack, and
this cannot be avoided. In fact, an element of fear is a good thing. Everyone
must know the President is serious, and that nobody is above the law. And in this regard,
Uhuru has been unequivocal, explaining that “Mwizi ni mwizi" ("A
thief is a thief"). Whether you are a Kikuyu, a Kamba, a Kalenjin or a Digo.
You stole alone, you will be jailed alone.” He has made it clear the law will
apply to everyone equally, noting that he and Deputy President William Ruto
will face lifestyle audits along with the other public servants. He even
explicitly said that his own brother would be prosecuted if there is evidence
of his involvement in corruption. He has also made it clear he will work with
anyone and everyone to achieve his goals, including his harshest critics such
as Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. There is no better time
to take up this fight. With the AU declaring this year as the African
Anti-Corruption year, all eyes are on the continent’s leaders to see who will
deliver. With his renewed determination, Uhuru has shown himself to be a
shining light within the continent, and I have no doubt with big results on the
way, he will go down in history as one of the Africa’s leading anti-corruption
crusaders.  Lesuuda is Samburu West MP 