Kajiado Governor Joseph ole Lenku has collapsed all water services companies into that will be headed by former Kenya Airway boss Titus Naikuni. Naikuni,
a mechanical engineer by profession, has been charged with turning around the water
provision system that allegedly collapsed due to mismanagement and corruption. Lenku
announced on Wednesday that the new Kajiado Water and Sewerage Company (KWSC) will improve access from 35 to 60
percent in the next four years. He noted that the county remains classified as an acute water scarcity region, whether both domestic and agricultural use are concerned. “Water access among Kajiado households is at 35 percent, meaning about six out of 10 families do not have it within their reach,” he said in a statement, adding this has resulted in food insecurity and a general struggle by the people, who waste hours searching for water. Economic growth has been hampered, he said but noted that the county had made "numerous efforts" to address the challenge. He cited the increase of the budgetary
allocation for water to Sh570 million in the 2018/19 fiscal year from an
average annual allocation of Sh300 million in previous years. The
county has had four water and sewerage companies - Oloolaiser,
Olkejuado, Oldonyo Orok and Nol-Turesh /Loitokitok. "The companies have had a
myriad of challenges that include massive water pilferage and lack of
reliability. In fact, one of them has had more than 70 percent of its water not
paid for over the years,” Lenku said. He went on to say that several of these companies cannot sustain their recurrent obligations,
leading to regular staff go-slows and strikes that adversely affect supply of
water to residents. Among the other drawbacks he mentioned were poor governance, graft, lack of technical capacity and funding. “We have arrived at the conclusion that these water
companies are not sustainable and cannot, in the prevailing situation, be
relied on to raise access to our desired 60 percent,” he said. “We begin by addressing the governance aspect. By appointing this new board, I look forward to the implementation of a sustainable water access strategy." The county boss said KWSC is a central water body through which
county water financial resources will be channeled. This,
he said, will partially address the funding challenge and in turn enable the undertaking of big projects for sustained supply. Others appointed to the new company are George Krhoda, Agatha Solitei, Samson Kerea, Christine Sereya,
Stephen Karanja, Charles Masangira, Florence Waiganjo (Water CEC member)
and Catherine Mumbi. The new team is
expected to deliver by exploring new water sources to meet the deficit. It will also rehabilitate and upgrade systems for efficiency and reliability, as well as identify modern technologies for enhancing tapping and utilisation. The team led by Naikuni will also network and raise funds from external
partners/ donor agencies. “I appeal to the relevant stakeholders to support this team. The formation of
the new company means the other four companies stand dissolved,” the Governor said. Read: Kajiado pastoralists suffer huge losses from drought Other details: Lenku denies disconnecting water to Makueni, Machakos counties Click here for the latest political news