The clash of former Kenya Premier League champions Sofapaka and Mathare United headline this weekend’s Kenyan Premier League fixtures as they seek to reduce the gap between them and league leaders Gor Mahia. Second-placed Sofapaka, who are 12 points behind Gor will hope to cut the gap to nine while the Slum Boys, who are third three points shy of Sofapaka will be out to gain feet in their battle to topple their opponents and mount pressure on Gor. Mathare will miss the trio of Sammy Ndung’u, Abubakar Keya and Andrew Juma who are nursing ankle, knee and metatarsal injuries respectively. However, Francis Kimanzi will be relieved to have John Mwangi and Johnstone Omurwa back in the team after missing the previous match due to a bout of Malaria and suspension respectively. Sofapaka, on the other hand, will miss Umaru Kasumba, who suffered a hip injury a week ago and it is widely speculated that new signing Justin Mico, captured from Rwanda’s Police FC, will fill the void left by Kasumba — who will be out for at least two months. In their 19 matches since Sofapaka was elevated to the top flight nine years ago, six have ended evenly, Mathare have won four with Sofapaka chalking up nine wins. Today, Bandari will begin life without head coach Ken Odhiambo — who resigned to pursue a coaching job abroad — against a visiting Kakamega Homeboyz who sit  seventh with 31 points. In Kericho, hosts Zoo, who have recently brushed aside relegation fears with back-to-back wins — host a cash-strapped Chemelil Sugar looking to rise up in the standings. The Sammy Okoth-led side began the second leg at rock bottom and have risen to a safer place rank with 21 points and will hope to capitalise on their opponents’ poor run to enrich their tally. Chemelil are 13th with 21 points. 12-time champions AFC Leopards will be buoyed by the clearance of their new Nigerian striker Alex Orotmal as they seek to bounce back to winning ways against Sony Sugar at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos tomorrow. After a week-long wait, Orotmal was finally secured his working permit and is likely to make his debut besides aiding his side recover from a 3-0 drubbing by Kakamega Homeboyz a week ago. Ingwe have drifted to sixth with 32 points while Sony are 15th with 21 points. Fourth-placed Ulinzi Stars will miss midfielder Michael Otieno through suspension when they host eighth-placed Kariobangi Sharks at Afraha Stadium. Sharks on the other hand, welcome back Erick Kapaito after recovering from injury. Tusker host a revitalised Nakumatt side at Ruaraka while Posta Rangers travel to Bungoma to face coach-less Nzoia Sugar at Sudi Stadium. Debutants Vihiga United and Wazito will wrap up the weekend fixtures at Camp Toyoyo. The duo risk being axed to the second tier. Wazito are bottom with 18 points two shy of Vihiga at 16th.