DP William Ruto’s wife, Rachel, has urged students to stop engaging in activities that undermine the development of education in the country. She has reminded students that discipline remains key to their success in education, which in turn would determine their future lifestyles. Speaking at Lugulu Girls High School in Bungoma County during a church service, Rachel asked students to maintain discipline by obeying school regulations. “As students, there is no point of being controversial. Put sideshows aside, focus on your studies and follow school rules. This is the only way to succeed in life,” said said. The service was attended by teachers and students from 14 secondary schools in the county. Ruto's remarks come in the wake of growing arson incidents in schools across the country. Highway Secondary school in South B, Nairobi, was the latest to experience the incident following a fire at one of its dormitories on Sunday afternoon. Read: South B's Highway school closed indefinitely after dorm fire So far, about 50 schools have reported arson cases mainly targeting dormitories. Dozens of students have been arrested and charged in connection with the incidents. Rachel, who was accompanied by Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama and Lugulu Girls Principal Dinah Cheruiyot, asked students to work hard in their studies. She said the best and only gift they could ever give their parents was being successful in their studies. “As Form Fours prepare for their national examinations, I take this opportunity to wish them all the best,” she said. “Parents have sacrificed for you by denying themselves basic needs to have you succeed in education. This is why I encourage you to burn your midnight oil to succeed,” Rachel added. She at the same time, urged parents to take the lead in shaping their children's behavior saying the foundation of discipline starts at home. She told the meeting held at the school’s grounds that unless parents take the lead by instilling discipline and Christian values in their children, cases of indiscipline would not be contained. “Parents especially mothers are great mentors of children and I wish to ask our students to heed the advice of our parents in shaping our behaviors,” Rachel said. Read: Parents are too busy for their kids, says KRC boss Wanyama praised good working relations among leaders, parents and teachers in the area, saying the move has led to improved performance and discipline among students. “We have the most disciplined students in this area and we expect the most outstanding results from our Form Four candidates this year,” he said. Bungoma Women Representative Catherine Wambilianga urged the government to review its proposal to have similar uniforms for all schools as part of the efforts to curb indiscipline in learning institutions. She said the proposal will not help curb indiscipline since it will be hard to tell apart students from different schools. MOre: Caning students will ‘end schools unrest’ Click here for the latest political news