The National Assembly has rejected President Uhuru Kenyatta's nominee for the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chair Ben Chumo citing integrity issues. The Committee on Finance and National Planning cited the economic crimes charges following the probe on the Sh408 million Kenya Power transformer scandal. Chumo, a former Kenya Power managing director, was nominated by Uhuru in administrative changes announced on June 27. But the committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo said the nominee does not satisfy the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. Read: Chumo has failed integrity test, won't get SRC job, says Duale He said Chumo had presented a certificate of good conduct dated May 5 but the DCI did not provide required information upon request by the committee. "Having considered the suitability, capacity, and integrity of the nominee, the committee recommends that the National Assembly rejects the nomination for appointment of Dr Ben Chumo as the Chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission," the report reads. The team invoked Article 250(2) of the Constitution, Sections 5 and 7(11) of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission Act (No. 10 of 2011) and Section 8(2) of the Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approval) Act No. 33 of 2011 in arriving at the decision. Limo said the former KPLC boss had also not stepped aside as the chair of Egerton University council despite the fact that he had an ongoing case. "A potential conflict of interest arises since he is still serving as the chair of the Egerton University council. He, however, stated that he intends to resign as soon as he is given an opportunity to serve as SRC chairperson." The committee noted that the nominee exhibited good professional and academic qualifications and experience to replace Sarah Serem, who has been seconded as Kenya's ambassador to China. "He had impressive knowledge on topical issues touching on human resource management which would have been invaluable in discharging the functions of the SRC chairperson," the report adds. Chumo was born in Uasin Gishu county in 1956 and is a member of the Institute of Human Resource Management. He holds a PhD in Human Resource Management, a Master of Business Administration and a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Social Sciences. Also read: I’m a man of integrity, Chumo tells SRC vetting team amid graft charges The committee concluded that he had the necessary academic qualifications for the post but noted that being a public officer and having been charged for corruption or economic crimes, "he would find it difficult to take up the position." "Based on the above issues, the Committee is of the view that the nominee is unsuitable to be appointed as the chairperson of the SRC," the report says. Chumo informed the meeting that no case of integrity arose against him for the 31 years that he worked at Kenya Power. He is among 18 people charged with procurement of Sh408 million faulty transformers and irregular award of a contract, claims that he and his co-accused have denied. Read: KPLC bosses' bail hearing adjourned after blackout at Milimani court More on this: KPLC managers spend the night in police cells Click here for the latest political news