The US government has challenged Kenya to focus on good governance and the rule of law in its accelerated fight against corruption. Outgoing ambassador Bob Godec said Kenya’s future can only be secured with good governance and commitment to transparency. "Corruption is a cancer that is killing this country. The theft must end. Every Kenyan should stand up and reject corruption completely," he said on Wednesday during US independence day celebrations at the US embassy in Muthaiga, Nairobi County. "Kenyans can stop corruption if they work together and commit themselves to the principles of their Constitution and the rule of law. ." The ambassador noted that all Kenyans want strong and effective democratic institutions as well as an end to tribal conflicts. "They are looking for meaningful jobs, a clean environment, strong communities and education for their children. And they want corruption to stop." Godec further noted that Kenya's Constitution guarantees fundamental freedoms. He said it was reaffirmed when, after a difficult election, President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga shook hands on March 9, put the nation first and agreed to work together for a better future. "We welcome their leadership and look forward to robust discussions and concrete progress. We hope all Kenyans,  including women, will have a voice in the process. When women have a seat at the table, they bring new ideas and perspectives to overcoming any country’s challenges," he said. He added that the Donald Trump administration will continue to support Kenya on security, healthcare, education, farming and wildlife protection for the sake of prosperity for all. Godec confirmed that the US delegation that took part in the American Chamber of Commerce conference focused on the Big Four Action Plan and signed business deals worth more than Sh10 billion with Kenya. He said the visit culminated in the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the two governments that offers new ways for US companies to support the Big Four and infrastructure initiatives. Godec is awaiting the vetting and approval of Illinois Senator Kyle McCarter as his successor. More on this: Senator Kyle McCarter to replace Godec as US ambassador Also read: Kenya signs deals worth Sh10 billion with US, Big Four top agenda Click here for the latest political news