The plan to build schools along the borders of rival communities in northern Kenya might be the best way to end cattle rustling, a new study suggests. The government recently announced it will set up schools on the Pokot-Turkana, Pokot-Marakwet, Turkana-Baringo and Baringo-Samburu borders. Masinde Muliro University don Christopher Simiyu said past attempts to end rustling failed because of the low academic levels among the community members. His conclusion followed an evaluation of the failure of the GPS tagging of livestock. The tagging was was meant to discourage rustling by making arrests and retrieval of stolen cattle easy. “Due to low education level, most household heads were reluctant to adopt the technology,” Dr Simiyu says in his study. The study is titled ‘No Magic Bullet for Livestock Rustling: Analysis of Drivers to Contain Livestock Rustling in Kenya’. The mobile phone powered technology also failed because of its high operational costs and lack of people with the right knowledge. Simiyu also assessed the largely failed livestock insurance programmes in Samburu. Although 87 per cent of locals knew about the insurance, majority did not understand its importance. The insurance plans are meant to cushion pastoralists against losses associated with livestock theft and deaths. The insurance scheme failed due to lack of private providers and failure by locals to raise premiums. “This was closely associated with level of education and lifestyle of the inhabitants,” Simiyu says. The study, conducted late last year, is published in the current edition of the International Journal of Social Science and Humanities Research. Simiyu suggests more schools should be put up in pastoralist areas. “The study concluded that an educated pastoral community has the capacity to stop livestock rustling, embrace technology and insure their livestock for increased productivity,” he says. According to the Kenya Police report of 2015, more than 24 people were killed in cattle rustling violence. Nearly 25,000 livestock were stolen in 56 raids. In March this year, Deputy President William Ruto said the government will build schools along the borders to help integrate communities that have been in conflict for many decades. “It’s only through education that we shall end cattle rustling. We need to allow our children to integrate, forget the past and focus on development,” Ruto said. The DP spoke when he laid a foundation stone for Katikomor Peace Primary School in Kapenguria. Katikomor Primary School will host children from West Pokot, Trans Nzoia and the Sebei community in Uganda. Ruto thanked the West Pokot county government for setting aside Sh20 million to construct the school.