The word "resilient" means, tough, enduring, lasting, long-term
oriented and self assured. Urban conglomerations, at times called towns or
cities when large and formal enough, are challenges in the development of
current societies, whether in the developed or developing countries. Over the centuries, human beings have
tended to crowd together in major towns and cities, to the extent that some
cities have become more or less ungovernable. Yet some of them have reached
their peaks with public transport systems, which could be some of the best in
the world. Others, on the other hand, continue to increase in size with little
provision of public goods needed by their residents. San Francisco city, on the West coast of the US, has a population of only
800,000 people: Genoa in Italy has just fewer than 500,000. With the compelling
modernity in both cities, one would wish to offload half the population in
Nairobi to go and enjoy the facilities there. But things in this world don't
work that way: Cities belong to their owners! So, why should the population in
Tenderloin district in downtown San Francisco be so poor, with half the people
homeless, foodless and healthless? San Francisco is perhaps only
"humane" to the better to do of society: To the poor in Tenderloin
district, Mathare in Nairobi could perhaps be better. In other words, modernity
without a human face can be hell on earth! The World Bank brought together leaders from a number of cities from countries
known as "emerging markets" to discuss how our cities could grow
"with resilience" into the future for one week. Kenya is an emerging
market, so is Cameroon and Mali. The problems faced by Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret,
Kiambu, Kisumu and Nairobi are similar to those faced by Bamako, Douala, Dar es
Salaam or Niamey. As more and more people migrate to these cities, so do they
create the pressure for more housing for residents, more schools for the
children, more markets to buy and sell food and more means to move around in.
All these things cannot, like manna, fall from heaven. It is either they will
be provided by the municipal or city authorities or by the people who do
business — the private sector will also join in their provision. The World Bank realises it is no longer a simple issue of choosing one or the
other — private or public. The trend the world over is to consider a happy
mixture of both. As usual, I will now tell you a story about this dating all
the way back into the past, almost two decades ago, before my encounter this
week with the World Bank and other colleagues in Bangkok, Thailand. In 2004, I had the honour to represent President Mwai Kibaki at the Smart
Partnership conference in Lake Langkawi, Malaysia, hosted by the then Prime
Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi. He had just succeeded the legendary Premier,
Mahathir Mohamad, the previous year. Mahathir was also present, obviously
continuing to closely patronise a movement he had founded to galvanise Third
World leaders to chaperon development in their various countries "in a
smart way."  By "smart" Mahathir meant the private and
public sectors must be optimally leveraged, locally and internationally, to
galvanise rapid development in the interest of the people, equitably and
productively. As an envoy of my own President, both premiers accorded me the honour of having
a one-to-one consultation in their separate residences to convey to them Kibaki’s
greetings. PM Badawi told me a very interesting
story about Kenya, which I would like to repeat here, especially with regard to
"smart development" and the need to "smartly mix" the
private and the public in our development scenarios. In 1975, young Ahmad Badawi had been sent to visit Kenya as the head of a youth
delegation by his Prime Minister, Mahathir. Jomo Kenyatta was still President,
a world-renowned leader of African nationalism. On landing in Nairobi, young
Badawi was impressed by how orderly and clean Nairobi was. He was particularly
impressed by the Kenya Bus Service, as a major means of public transportation.
He actually made a mental note that this is one of the major recommendations he
would make to his government when he got back: A public transport system like
the one in Kenya. And this is exactly what he did. Mahathir did not disappoint
in smartly copying the Kenya Bus system in Malaysia, even going ahead to make
their buses. Wind the clock forwards. Ten years later, Badawi is back in Nairobi to attend
the 1985 UN Women's Conference as part of the Malaysian government delegation.
He is shocked by the chaos in the public transport sector, with creatures
called " matatus" everywhere, obviously only paying attention to
traffic rules by ignoring them. Nairobi roads are filthy, even in the
downtown area: An air of gloom and despondency hangs almost everywhere! It was
not clear to Badawi whether this was a rude throwback to some ancient and
forgotten African civilisation or just a Nairobi City that had long gone to
seed! What is the moral of this story? Not everything put in the hands of the so-called
private sector blossoms: The matatu industry, as it has evolved, is not a long-time
solution to our public transportation problems. If anything, it merely
complicates it and makes it worse. Two, the industry, as it is, can only
develop if two things are done. One, it ought to be properly regulated. Two, it
ought to coexist with an efficient and affordable public transport system that
will, in turn, sanitise it. If in doubt, go to Mexico, where a similar industry
called the "pesero" coexists efficiently with a properly organised
public transport system. That is what is called "smart partnership." Competing with matatus on our roads today are "
boda bodas". No doubt, this mode of transport has given jobs to many of youths,
who would otherwise have been unemployed. But the same phenomenon can be seen
here in Bangkok, where boda bodas coexist with a thriving and well-organised
public transport system — buses and trains. Left by themselves, boda bodas can
easily become a thorough menace. But "smartly married" to a public
transport system, they could easily become another version of
"hubas", being called to give service on demand and not rushing here
and there at breakneck speed, breaking necks, thighs, heads, arms and backs! Indeed, the secret lies in how cleverly
we in government can develop "smart policies" that make the private
and public sectors contribute to rapid development in a humane and productive
manner. At the moment, too many initiatives are simply left to mushroom in the
private sector, obviously responding to concrete demands, but doing so without
requisite planning and regulation by public authorities. This, obviously,
cannot qualify as smart development. In this one-week conference, we have been made acutely aware that plenty of
resources exist out there in the private sector waiting to be invested in
"bankable projects" in our counties, for example. As a multilateral
development agency, the World Bank, in conjunction with our national
governments, is willing to mobilise such private sector resources for our own
development provided we can come up with smart and bankable proposals. In
simple language, this means proposals where the investor — local or foreign —
will make good profit, while we in turn achieve good development. Investment is
not a missionary venture: It is serious business. But there is no God-given law
that says the government cannot do serious business. Likewise, there is also a
God-given law that says serious business never goes hand in hand with
dishonesty, inhumane policies, slothfulness, stupidity and lack of vision. This
is a lesson African policymakers and implementers must be reminded of on a
daily basis, especially as we think seriously of reinventing our public
transport system. 