 The transfer of Mohamud Saleh as Northeastern regional coordinator has elicited mixed reactions from residents with some saying his experience and result oriented approach will be missed.Saleh was on Friday moved to the Interior ministry headquarters in changes announced by PS Karanja Kibicho. Kirinyaga county commissioner Mohamed Birik was promoted to replace Saleh.Those in support of the change said it will inject new blood in security operations. Saleh was named Northeastern regional coordinator in 2015 following the April 2 Garissa University terror attack in which 147 people were killed.He is credited with the reduction of raids in the region which had suffered some of the worst terror attacks in the country.Mandera elder Abdi Mohamed said the government erred in redeploying Saleh.“They have blundered. I don’t agree with the reshuffle because Saleh’s shoes were too big for any other person to fit in,” Mohamed told the Star on the phone yesterday.He said Saleh ought to have been allowed to serve for more years because he has a proven record and was performing well. “What matters at the end of the day are results, especially in a crucial docket like security,” he said.Kenya Livestock Marketing Council vice chairman Dubat Amey thanked Saleh for working tirelessly to strengthen security and restore peace.Lafey MP Abdi Ibrahim praised the reshuffle, saying it allowed one of their own to head the region. Birik comes from Lafey constituency in Mandera county.“We want to thank the President and his deputy for considering Birik for the post. We’re sure he is up to the task and will not let them down,” the MP said. Ibrahim asked Birik to take over from where his predecessor left. He acknowledged that insecurity had reduced since Saleh took over. Birik joins Wilson Njenga (Central), Mongo Chimwanga (Rift Valley), Ann Ng’etich (Western), Moffat Muriithi (Nyanza), William Thuku (Nairobi), Bernard Leparmarai (Coast) and Wycliffe Ogallo as top government representatives in the former provinces. “These changes are geared towards enhancing service delivery to wananchi while at same time improving management of security and coordination of national government functions,” Kibicho said in a statement.        The transfer of
Mohamud Saleh as Northeastern regional coordinator has elicited mixed reactions from residents with some saying his experience and result oriented approach will be missed. Saleh was on Friday moved to the Interior Ministry headquarters in changes announced by PS Karanja Kibicho. Kirinyaga county commissioner Mohamed Birik was promoted to replace Saleh. Those in support of the changes said it will inject new blood in security operations. Saleh was named Northeastern regional coordinator in 2015 following the April 2 Garissa University terror attack in which 147 people were killed. He is credited with the reduction of of raids in the region which had suffered some of the worst terror
attacks in the country. Mandera elder Abdi Mohamed said the government erred in redeploying Saleh. “They have blundered.
I don't agree with the reshuffle because Saleh’s
shoes were too big for any other person to fit in,” Mohamed told the Star on the phone yesterday. He said Saleh ought to have been allowed to serve for more years because he has a proven record and was performing well. "What matters at the end of the day are results, especially in a crucial docket like security," he said. Kenya Livestock Marketing Council vice chairman Dubat
Amey thanked Saleh for working tirelessly to strengthen security and restore peace. Lafey MP Abdi Ibrahim praised the reshuffle, saying it allowed one of their own to head the region. Birik comes from Lafey constituency in Mandera county. “We want to thank the President and his deputy for considering Birik for the post. We're
sure he is up to the task and will not let them down,” the MP said. Ibrahim asked Birik to take over from where his predecessor left. He acknowledged that insecurity had reduced since Saleh took over.   He challenged the incoming RC ‘to pick from
where Saleh left and work with the other security chiefs in making the region a
much more safe place for everyone’. He hails from Lafey constituency in Mandera
takes over from Mohamud Saleh who now becomes the new director of Reforms at
the ministry headquarters. Ends……………Birik is an experienced administrator who has
served in different areas with last posting being in Kirinyaga county where he
was the county commissioner.