Kisumu MCAs have asked Chief Justice David Maraga to rein in on judges following a court's favourable ruling on Public Service Board officials. PSB chair Nahashon Oguya and vice chair Betty Asuna are charged with attempting to defraud Kisumu of Sh104,000. They allegedly conspired with other people and committed the crime on January 9. The officials are also charged with abuse of office and making false claims. Read: Kisumu public service board officials charged with fraud Oguya and Asuna turned to court after the allegations, which they denied, were raised. On July 2, the county's Industrial and Labour Relations court issued stay orders for the officials to remain in office until their case is heard and determined. The court also restrained the county, agents and their servants from interfering with the work of the two and the functions of the board. The officials were released on cash bails of Sh20,000 or bond of Sh50,000 each in the case that will be heard on July 25. In an address to the press on Friday, the MCAs criticised Justice Nduma Nderi for allowing the Oguya and Asuna back in office. Led by Majority Leader Kenneth Onyango, they questioned how the judge "rewrote" the PSB commission's discipline manual without referring to it. “It’s clearly spelt out that public officers facing criminal charges must step aside pending determination of their cases," Onyango said. "The judge happily dished the orders without due care [for] repercussions to the public." Onyango noted that the PSB is an important institution which cannot function with interference from external forces. “As the people’s representatives, we shall not allow the development trajectory that this county has picked to be derailed by petty personal interests,” he said. The MCAs further said courts must be above reproach. “We believe time has come for another radical surgery in the Judiciary to rid this hallowed institution of persons who have turned it into a den of interest plays,” the MCA said. Minority Leader Phelomen Ojuok said the CJ must clean the court to restore residents' trust. Shaurimoyo ward representative Prisca Misachi said they were not happy with how the court handled court cases. Click here for the latest political news