Government entities have been instructed to publish information on awarded tenders by the 15th day of the subsequent month. Details of goods or services purchased, contract prices and suppliers' particulars, including names of directors, must be included. This is in line with a presidential order that required them to start publishing the information from July 1, as part of intensified efforts in the war on corruption. “Where the 15th day of the subsequent month falls on a weekend or public holiday, the agencies are required to publish the report on or before the day immediately before the weekend or public holiday in strict compliance with the 15-day rule as set out in the executive order,” State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said. Read: Uhuru order: All tender company directors must be made public Details of all ongoing contracts, pending supplies and services and their final pay must also be made public. The executive orders apply to all constitutional commissions, Parliament, the Judiciary, state corporations, diplomatic missions and county assemblies. Others are public schools, universities and colleges, tertiary institutions, government-run development funds and pension funds. The publication of the information can be through websites, the e-Citizen portal, the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority platforms, public notice boards and any other official government publications. In a statement on Monday, Esipisu said the guidelines will foster coherence and uniformity in the reporting style and end the lack of transparency and relative secrecy that typified public procurement in the past. This is in line with Article 35 of the Constitution regarding access to information. Kenyans will now be able to easily access and interrogate information regarding specific details of public procurement, including prices and suppliers of goods and services. Esipisu added that the directive will entrench transparency and accountability which are core considerations in President Uhuru Kenyatta's fight against corruption, inefficiency and over-pricing of goods and services in public sector procurement. He encouraged Kenyans to take advantage of the new framework when doing business with public entities. Click here for the latest political news