Economist David Ndii and constitutional lawyer Yash Pal Ghai yesterday dismissed the Standard Gauge Railway us economically unviable. Ndii told the media in Mombasa the project was rushed, had no proper public participation prior to its rollout and the feasibility studies were shoddy and dishonest. “We tried to flag these issues but the government did not organise sufficient public participation and they did not disclose all the factors. These things are only coming to light now,” said the economist. Deputy President William Ruto is on record saying once the SGR freight service picks up, the project will be able to repay itself in about three years. On Wednesday, Ndii disputed this saying the project will not break-even for another 20 years. “That’s a fact. So whatever he said is irrelevant,” Ndii said. The two were in Mombasa to meet port users affected by the project, including Container Freight Station owners and transporters. The meeting, organised by Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri), saw CFS owners and transporters decry losses with reports emerging that there are hidden charges for cargo transported to Nairobi via the SGR. Ndii said the government hid crucial information from the public but fresh information vindicates concerns raised about the project. “Freighting of cargo by train is uneconomical. The cost of doing so is actually higher than the total cost of doing so by road,” Ndii told the media. He said the public and business owners are now forced to pay more to transport cargo by train than they would have by road. Ndii said the SGR does not have a design capacity of 22 million metric tonnes as stated by the government. “We now understand the installed capacity is just under nine million metric tonnes and already the dry cargo throughput at the Port of Mombasa is over 15 million metric tons,” said the economist. The government issued a directive forcing all cargo passing through the Mombasa port to be transported via SGR to the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi from where they will be cleared. This was a blow to many transporters and CFS owners in Mombasa who lost a lot of business to the new freighting system, forcing some of them to close shop while others had to lay off employees. Ghai said the SGR was a big disaster both legally and econimically. “The government has taken many shortcuts from the perspectives of the constitution. It is really a great pity that this government has no respect for the law,” he said.