Meru School was closed indefinitely on Monday, a day after students went on a rampage and destroyed property. The students were released in the morning after destroying property including window panes. The reason for the unrest was not immediately clear. Fires have been reported at several schools in the county in the last weeks. There has also been unrest that has led to the indefinite closure of some. An 85-bed dormitory went up in flames at Kathera Boys' in Imenti South on Monday while students attended morning preps. The principal said there were no casualties but that the students lost all their property. On Sunday, students of Thitha Secondary School in Igembe North rioted so the school was closed until further notice. A dormitory was burned down at the school last month. On July 3, fires destroyed dormitories at Mukuiru school in Tigania East and Kisima High in Buuri Sub-county. Kisima Principal Amos Njagi said the boys had been watching World Cup matches when the incident took place but assured that learning was taking place. Last month, Tigania West MP John Mutunga appealed to well wishers, the county and the national governments for Sh2.7 million to rebuild a dormitory which was reduced to ashes at St Luke's Secondary School. In all these cases, the causes of the fires were not established immediately, Gitonga Mugambi, the Eastern and Central regions manager for Red Cross, said the incidents were the result of poor parenting. He said so in a WhatsApp group called 'Voice of Meru'. Two students of Igandene High School in Imenti South were recently arrested in a suspected case of arson. Several students of Thuura Boys' High School have been charged in Meru on suspicion of committing arson. Three dormitories have gone up in flames at the institution, the last case having taken place last Thursday night. The school was indefinitely closed. County Education director Salome Maina told the Star she had not received reports of the fires and accused the media of exaggerating the incidents. "Assessments show that school fires become a trend when reported," Salome said by phone last Wednesday. "This is equal to telling students that they have been left out so they should go ahead and do it [start fires]." She said investigations were launched. Read: Dorm on fire at St Mary's Girls' Mumias, no casualties reported Click here for the latest political news    