The Kavonokya sect in Kitui has been named as a major stumbling block toward the immunisation of children. The sect’s members believe taking medicine is a sin. County immunisation champion Jemimah Mbiti said the belief has over the years frustrated vaccination programmes. Mbiti, a former nominated MCA, spoke during a meeting to sensitise people about polio vaccination in Kitui on July 11. The meeting was held at the Kitui County Referral Hospital on Thursday. “The Kavonokya adherents are very stubborn people, they say that their faith forbids them from taking medicine. They believe that if one of their own falls sick and dies, it is the will of God,” Jemimah said. She said previously, she has led health workers to homes belonging to Kavonokya during immunisation but the member fled along with their children. “We must find ways to convince the Kavonokya members of the importance of the polio vaccination. I think there is a way that can be employed to get them agree to the polio jab. Polio is a very serious malady,” said Mbiti, who suffered polio in childhood said. The Kitui county deputy head of nutrition and vaccines programme, Henry Muinde, said the county was considered vulnerable to polio outbreak. “Kitui is considered vulnerable, that is why it is among the 12 counties were the July polio vaccination is taking place,” he said. He said in the programme targets 178,600 children in the county. The first round of the exercise will be between July 11 and 15 while the last one will run between July 28 and August 1. In 2012, police in Kitui prosecuted two sect members who failed to have their children vaccinated against measles. The Lower Yatta district public health officer Faith Mutinda said the immunisation campaign team were met with stiff resistance from pupils at Mandu Primary School. The pupils said their parents told them the vaccination is against their religious beliefs. Mutinda said she held a meeting with the parents and her attempts to persuade them to allow their children get the jab were fruitless. The two parents said their faith considered modern medicine as ungodly. Public health officials have been calling for a ban of the sect whose members refuse to take their children to hospital or have them immunised.