Machakos County governor Alfred Mutua yesterday chaired his first full cabinet meeting, after six new Executive Committee members were finally sworn in. The CECs took oath of office without at an event presided over by Chief Magistrate Alfred G. Kibiru of the Machakos High Court at Mutua’s. They included Ms. Evelyne Kavuu Mutie (Energy, Lands, Housing and Urban Development), Eng. Morris Omuyoma Aluanga (Roads, Transport and Public Works), Mr. Titus Nzeki Matiku Kavila (County Administration and Decentralized Units), Mr. Francis Kiio Mwaka (Trade, Industrialization and Innovation), Mr. Kimeu Mbithi Kimeu (Public Service, Quality Management and ICT), Mr. Urbanus Musyoka Wambua (Agriculture, Food Security and Cooperative Development) and Mr. Lazarus Kivuva (Education, Skills Training and Social Welfare). Mutua said his government now has a full cabinet of ten CECs. The six were sworn in without the input of the assembly. He said three others in his cabinet; Naomi Mutie (Water), Ruth Mutua (Health) and Deputy Governor Francis Maliti who doubles as the Finance CEC did not need to be sworn in since they had taken oath of office in 2013. “This decision is made in the best interest of the people of Machakos and in upholding the Constitution and rule of law which I swore to protect and abide with at all times in the exercise of my duties as Governor,” said Mutua. Mutua directed them to take office and start work immediately. “Our people are hungry for development. Youths are suffering due to joblessness, women suffer lack of water. We have never had development in Ukambani since independence, we now have full cabinet,” said Mutua. He told the CECs to discharge their duties with respect and dignity, he told them to respect locals just the way they respect him. “We don’t want jokes, serve the residents or go home,” he added. Mutua told the CECs to be steadfast in delivering Maendeleo Chap Chap party’s manifesto. He warned them against sabotaging his government. Mutua said leaders should put politics aside and serve the residents instead He said most leaders have concentrated in politics at the expense of development. “Siasa nzuri ni ya kuleta maendeleo, hapa Kenya tumeweka siasa mbele. This is primitive mentality,” said Mutua. “We are not waiting for anybody, we are charging our duties for the next four years before getting to Statehouse in 2022,” added he. Mutua said his government will not only transform Machakos but the entire Ukambani region developmentwise. The five MCAs who had been earlier rejected by the Machakos county assembly with claims that they were not fit for the various positions in which Mutua had nominated them to are among the seven sworn in on Monday. The MCAs, majority allied to Wiper have been reluctant to approve the MCAs names as they say are waiting for the Supreme Court’s verdict on county’s gubernatorial election petition filed by former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti.