Also, according to them,
Obama’s visits to his ancestral K’Ogelo village have been unproductive. They are wrong.   I knew Obama as the Senator of Illinois when
he visited Kenya in 2006.    As the media adviser at the US embassy in
Nairobi at the time, I was assigned to accompany a bevy of local and foreign
journalists to cover hispublic events in Nairobi, Kisumu and K’Ogelo in Siaya Before this, I had formed
my opinion about Obama through a speech he delivered to the US embassy staff at
Gigiri, Nairobi.  He talked about his travails
in search of his identity in Kenya; teamwork among American and Kenyan embassy staff,
and his detest for ethnicity and tribalism. I accompanied him to the
Standard Media Group offices at I&M building in downtown Nairobi, where
hooded goons had not long ago attacked the media house, harassed staff,
destroyed and confiscated equipment.  In
meetings with the management staff, Obama regretted the attacks and called for
tolerance on the part of the Narc government in to free press. In a speech he gave at
the University of Nairobi, Obama spoke against corruption and called for the
empowerment of women and youth as future leaders.  He also urged Kenyan leaders to reject
politics of ethnicity and tribalism. During a question-and-answer session, Professor
Olewe Nyunya asked if Obama would vie for President in 2008. He was
noncommittal. The Narc government reacted
to the speech in a predictable manner.  Machakos
Governor Alfred Mutua, the then government spokesperson, downplayed Obama’s
remarks, calling him a junior senator. 
Two years later, in 2008, the junior senator was elected to lead the
world’s strongest nation. Obama’s visits to Kisumu
and K’Ogelo were dramatic.  In Kisumu, he
and his wife, Michelle, were tested for HIV-Aids at a demonstration clinic that
was meant to encourage residents to know their status. At K’Ogelo that
afternoon, Obama easily mingled with the villagers, telling them his previous
ventures to find the village his father was buried.  After a meal of ugali, smoked fish and boiled
goat meat, the senator held private discussions with Mama Sarah, the grandmother,
which lasted about one-and-a-half hours. We then hurriedly got
back to Nairobi for a meet-the-people tour of Kibera in Nairobi, which was to
be the climax of his visit.    Thousands of Kibera residents turned up that
evening to welcome the person they called “our own son”.  And Obama had a message for them: “I’m not
different from you”. “You can be what you want to be in life.   All you have to do is to keep working hard
to realise your dreams.” The Obama’s story is
told tin his books, notably, The Audacity
of Hope and From Promise to Power.   Obama’s Kenya critics such as Khalwale and
Kuria ought to read these books, if they have not done so already. For starters, through
Obama’s efforts and name recognition, KOgelo village is not the same today. The
face and status of this village are changing — tourists are visiting, small
businesses are on the rise and infrastructure, such as roads and electricity
are now available.  The newly established
Sauti Kuu project, the brainchild of Dr Auma, Obama’s sister, is testimony to a
village and a locality in transformation. 
As Auma clearly said, the project will benefit the youths of K’Ogelo,
Siaya county and Kenya as a whole. This is as it should be. It is President Obama who
initiated the ‘Yes, Youth Can’ programme that has seen hundreds of Kenyan youth
empowered politically and economically. 
By 2012, the initiative had become so popular that some Kenyan leaders
and politicians began to frustrate it.   In Parliament, a motion of censure against
then US Ambassador Michael Renneberger
was initiated to recall him over claims the ‘Yes, Youth Can’ programme was
inciting youths to rebel against the government. It is President Obama who
initiated the African Youth Leadership programme that has benefitted many Kenyan
youths.    Julie Gichuru, the former popular Citizen TV
anchor, is one of the beneficiaries that horned their leadership skills through
this initiative. Obama did not initiate
the Agoa and PEPFAR programmes, as Khalwale and Kuia rightly noted. Nevertheless,
he ensured their continuation in Kenya and Africa throughout his two-term presidency.  Had Obama been a rogue President, he could
have terminated them. Obama’s latest
achievements were the bilateral agreements he signed with the Kenyan government
when he visited in 2015.  Among other
things, those agreements provide for collaboration in security, anti-terrorism
and corruption — key issues hampering Kenya’s development.   A safer and secure environment are what
Kenyans want in their pursuits for happiness. Obama’s visits have also
bolstered Kenya’s image abroad, which in turn, have boosted our tourism industry.  This week, Bobby Kamani, the managing director
of the Diani Reef Beach Resort in Mombasa, confirmed that Obama’s visit in 2015
along with that of Pope Francis, greatly boosted tourism.  He expects a similar boost from Obama’s
latest visit. These are some of the contributions
Obama has made as President and as a private citizen.  Let his critics also play their part.  The writer worked as the media adviser at the American embassy when
Obama visited Kenya in 2006 as Illinois senator   