Senators have accused local administrators of creating fake lists of victims of the May 9 Solai dam tragedy that left 47 people dead. Mutula Kilonzo Junior, the chairman of the Senate ad hoc committee, said local administrators provided several lists and some had bogus names. "The assistant deputy commissioner, chiefs and their assistants sneaked in some names of people who were not affected,” he said. Kilonzo spoke on Friday during a fact-finding mission at Solai together with Senators Susan Kihika, Ephraim Maina, Prof Malachi Ekai, Fatuma Dullo and Silvia Kasanga. The committee said the local administrators will be summoned to appear before the Senate committee to explain the different lists.  MISLEADING Kihika said the lists presented by the local administration were misleading and would not help in rebuilding lives of the genuine victims. The Senate directed the regional coordinator to combine a genuine list and hand it to the committee in two weeks. Kihika said compensation and gifts to victims should be recorded and handed over to county commissioner or the regional commissioner. “For transparency, the list should be done closely with the involvement of all victims from the three villages that were affected including Nyakinyua, Kwa Energy and Nyandarua to have one genuine list,” she said. The senators asked respective agencies to flatten all dams on the farm to avoid dangers in future. They said the owners of Patel dam acted with impunity by diverting water from the rivers to his dams. “Patel has done several crimes, for example, closing rivers,” Kihika said. She said the dams should be closed and Patel forced to educate orphans who lost their parents. Kihika said the Senate will not relent in pushing for justice for the victims. She maintained the tragedy was not an accident.  CRIMINAL TO DIVERT WATER “We are told the dam had 190 million litres of water. The dam was however, not constructed in a standard manner. It is also criminal to divert water from a river for personal use,” Kihika said. She said the senators received threats from various individuals, including attempts to force them to drop the probe. Dullo said local administrators should take full responsibility of helping victims get justice.