When I joined the Star in June 2013, my first time as a subeditor, Wanjiru Kinoti threw me under the bus, giving me a page with poorly written stories to sub. And she expected results – a clean, readable page for the following day’s newspaper – within the set deadline. That is how she introduced me and many other inexperienced subeditors into this business of panel-beating reporters’ works into great masterpieces for the readers. For someone who always worked with novices, she was a patient but tactical and strict chief subeditor, because inasmuch as one may have been new to the job, the newspaper had to go to press in time. Because of her strictness and love for perfection, a mistake as simple as a misplaced coma was inexcusable. She would go to great lengths to explain why a word you may have preferred over another slowed down a particular sentence. At my current workplace, whenever I question whether a semi-colon has been used correctly or whether a certain word should start with a capital letter, my colleagues think I am petty. They don’t understand that I was trained by a person who paid serious attention to every detail in a story – one of the greatest strengths of a good subeditor. Rarely did Wanjiru defend the subs whenever there was a storm in the newsroom over a poorly written headline or misrepresented fact. She always insisted, “The buck stops with you.” In retrospect, she was subtly sending a message to her team of soldiers that in this not-so-friendly trade of correcting other people’s mistakes, you are not supposed to complain but give your all to produce a flawless copy that grabs the reader by the neck and hooks them to the entire newspaper. And that is how you make a great subeditor, that is what she made us. Wanjiru’s determination to always deliver a perfect paper within deadline made her fall out with some subs, who probably felt she had a vendetta against them. She was always positive, even in the face of a crisis, and had a ready smile. Her jokes were told with a touch of seriousness and you had to be keen to catch them. Her signature tunes, “that page has to go to press now” or “send that page to press now” were songs we were used to. But woe unto you if you sent a page to press with the mistakes she or the revise editor had asked you to correct. If you chose to ignore the orders to send a page to press, she would stand towering behind your seat—she was tall—until you complied. With the help of Mbogo Murage and Matt Gathigira – both also now deceased – Wanjiru was the chief principal in an academy that chiselled amateur subs into the sharp professionals they are today. None of her protégés can forget the Tuesday morning classroom sessions where we literally studied subbing. She would bring notes on every imaginable topic, including elementary English, and would use the sessions to chide subs for every mistake they published. “You must cross-check every detail. If in doubt, always cross-check,” she would say. Even after she was moved to the Opinions desk, Wanjiru still kept tabs on her subs team. She would stop me from time to time to ask how the team was doing, and always encouraged us to continue doing our best. She clearly wanted each and every one of us to succeed. From her excellent grasp of the English language we learnt a lot and grew under her wing. We do not take this for granted. Go well Wanjiru, and if you stumble upon Mbogo and Matt, make another formidable editorial team and make everyone over there realise that subbing can be fun. Thank you for all the lessons and goodbye, my chief sub. The writer is a journalist.