Kenyans are busy rebuilding their lives and do not want to hear about 2022 politics, nominated MP Maina Kamanda has said. The MP noted that heightened political temperatures maim businesses and cause city dwellers to live in apprehension. Maina who was speaking at Mathioya in Murang’a on Saturday said it is irresponsible for leaders to start politicking about 2022 when Kenyans are trying to heal from the last general elections. He noted that many people are trying to revive their businesses which had been crippled by the pre and post-election tension and do not want to hear about the next general elections that are four years away. “People living in Nairobi do not like elections because they do not come to help us, they only come to destroy our lives and businesses,” Kamanda said. He appealed to those with political ambitions in 2022 to wait for the last year to start their campaigns and concentrate on development for now. He also criticized a section of Jubilee party members who have been against the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga. “Never again has there been a president who sought a partnership with the opposition in order to foster peace in a country,” Kamanda said, noting that it is paramount for all Kenyans to work together for the economy to grow. Those against the handshake, he added, benefitted from the conflicts that rocked the country. He also hailed the President for his anti-graft war saying more public funds have been stolen in five years than what was stolen in 24 years that former president Daniel Moi was in power. “People have been fleecing our country dry and are causing our economy to go to the dogs as Kenyans suffer,” he said. He said it is important for all leaders to go through a lifestyle audit so that culprits can be found and stolen funds recovered. “This is why the President has ordered a lifestyle audit for all leaders in his government, not previous governments, to determine how they amassed their riches,” he noted. More on this: Raila to Ruto: 'Your presidency is not guaranteed, stop loitering' Also read: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact Click here for the latest political news 