James Freeman Clarke was born on April 4, 1810, and died on June 8, 1888. In between he attended the Boston Latin School, graduated from Harvard College in 1829, and Harvard Divinity School in 1833. He also became a professor of natural religion and Christian doctrine at Harvard. It was Clarke who stated, “The difference between a politician and a statesman is that a politician thinks about the next election, while the statesman thinks about the next generation.” Unlike most people seem to believe, I do not think that Clarke was condemning politicians. He was making a distinction that in every political system we have politicians and statesmen. He was also saying one must know how to tell the difference between these two categories of leaders to then know what to expect from each. As an elected MP I can confess that I struggle with this distinction regularly, personally and with my team. Whenever I say or do something controversial — as I am wont to do every so often — my team wonders whether I understand the ramifications for my next election possibilities. They then get very irritated when I seem not to worry too much about it. My counter-argument is that as a Christian I have a firm conviction that nothing happens by chance. There is a reason I am Nyeri Town constituency MP for the 2017-22 term. There is a reason I was elected on my first attempt, despite running against a very tough incumbent, and several people who had run for this office many times before. There is a reason I was elected despite having been closely associated with Raila Odinga and his party, just five years earlier. There is a reason ‘Nyerians’ elected a clear outlier, gave him a clear win during party nominations and seven out of every 10 votes during the general election. I believe I was elected to serve Nyeri for this term. This means that as I work for the people of Nyeri locally; represent Nyeri on issues before Parliament; oversight the implementation of government policies within the context of Nyeri interests. I legislate with Nyeri interests in mind, I must be focused on what Nyeri wants now, not after the next election. The work I am supposed to do during this period is specific to this term. Afterwards, and based on how I perform now, I can seek another mandate in 2022. As a patriot, I also believe it is my responsibility to speak truth to power. In the past I did it to Mwai Kibaki, Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. I might not always get it right, but one would rather be wrong than unheard. One must also not worry too much about whether doing it makes one unpopular; popularity is fickle, especially when it comes to political leadership. This is the difference between those in the ‘TangaTanga Squad’ and MPs like myself. I, for example, know for a fact that I was not elected to tell those who elected me in the last election who to vote for in the next election for whatever office. They have been doing it without my help since 1963. They made their individual decisions in 2017, including electing Uhuru and myself. I am confident that they will do it again and very well, in 2022. This is why I do not speak about who will be elected in 2022. What we should now do is agree that in Kenya, as in every other political system, there will be politicians and statesmen; and we identify who falls where. Then we let those whose work is to think about the next election do their job, while those whose work is to think about the next generation do theirs. Then judge each accordingly.