President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee Party has said the ongoing Mau Forest eviction will go on. The party dismissed some of its MPs from Rift Valley opposed to the eviction, saying they are expressing their personal opinion. Speaking at Jubilee headquarters yesterday, secretary general Raphael Tuju urged aggrieved individuals to channel their grievances to the relevant authorities. He said the eviction is coordinated by a multi-sectoral agency that includes Kenya Forest Services, Kenya Water Tower Authority and the Office of the President. Read: Defiant Murkomen returns to Mau, tells evictees to stay put Some Jubilee MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto led by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen faulted the eviction, telling the residents to stay put, despite the directive to leave. Tuju said, “Ruto himself went to the area and told those who encroached on the forest to leave and indeed the majority left.” “The government has to do what it has to do for the benefit of this country.” He said the Murkomen team is expressing personal views and should not be confused as Jubilee Party’s position. The eviction, which is being conducted by a combined team of security officers and forest warders, has so far pushed out more than 7,000 families. On Saturday, Murkomen was accompanied by his Kericho counterpart Aaron Cheruiyot and Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ng’eno. They returned to the Mau Forest and told the evictees to stay. “We will not accept the suffering the children and mothers are going through,” Ng’eno said. Tuju dismissed claims by Rift Valley MPs that the eviction is being conducted in an inhumane manner and there is massive violation of human rights. “You want to tell me that it was carried in inhumane way, when we still don’t have a single casualty?”  Tuju said. “If they ran away into the forest what do you do? Carry the houses carefully?” He hinted at a possible disciplinary action against the Elgeyo Marakwet senator for not toeing the party line. Tuju said the party disciplinary committee will analyse the senator’s remarks. He was with party chairman Nelson Dzuya at the party headquarters following a JP National Management Committee meeting. Read: Stop divisive politics on Mau evictions, Gideon Moi tells Rift MPs More: Court declines to issue orders stopping Mau evictions Click here for the latest political news