Timothy Ngigi, 50, has been running his restaurant in Dagoretti without any cooking fuel costs for close to two years now. The father of three uses waste from animals at the nearby Nyongara Slaughterhouse and turns it into energy. The restaurant with a seating capacity of 10 people is powered by a biodigester with a 14 cubic metres capacity biogas plant, equivalent to 14,000 litres. The biodigester is fed with the waste that would otherwise be left to decompose in the open, posing an environmental hazard. It is then mixed with water in a one-to-one ratio. “There is so much waste available here. I usually feed the digester with 120kg of the waste in two weeks,” Ngigi said. The biogas is produced from fermentation of the waste under airtight conditions to produce methane gas. This is then used to power the double-burner gas stove in Ngigi's kitchen. Ngigi says he is pleased by the savings and constant supply of the gas from the system. “Operating this business has been more profitable than when I began in 2014. Before, I would use at least six four-kilo tins of charcoal in a day, parting with Sh420. Using this system has been a big bonus. I am able to make Sh1,000 as net profit in a day,” he said. The plant that would otherwise cost Sh350,000 was installed by Flexi Biogas technologies. The plant serves as a model for other business operators from the area and across regions. "Several people have visited the biogas system with the intention of installing their own," Ngigi said. Flexi Biogas technology developer Dominic Wanjihia said he was compelled to deal with cutting down of trees and charcoal burning by communities living around national parks. “I intended to provide an alternative source of energy to the Maasai community living in the Maasai Mara Game Reserve and its environs and avoid depletion of trees and conserve the unique ecosystem all together,” he said. "But I noticed that these communities use fallen and dry branches for fuel. Hence, I was pushed to develop a multipurpose digester for commercial enterprises like hotels and schools, where much of the firewood and charcoal ends up,” Wanjihia said. Since 2011, Flexi Biogas has installed approximately 1,200 domestic purpose biodigesters. The systems run on any biodegradable materials such as kitchen leftovers, garden weeds, chicken and market waste. Wanjihia has said a standard domestic home biodigester costs Sh70,000, ideal for eight household members and an extra-large system designed for cooking and heating needs for 15 household members costs Sh85,000. Wanjihia explained that one could use a bio-DC generator to convert the biogas to electrical power which would then charge automotive batteries to store power.