Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has hit out at the Capital Markets Authority for linking him to the loss of billions of shillings at Mumias Sugar Company terming the move as ‘pure political witch-hunt.’ This comes just days after the markets watch dog linked Kidero – a former managing director of the company – to the embezzlement of Sh3.1 billion that almost brought the firm to its knees. On Thursday, CMA in forensic report by J Mile & Company which audited the financial operations of the company between 2006 and 2016, linked Kidero to financial mess at the sugar company. The money, the report says, was allegedly swindled by the managers through discounts given to selected customers of the company between 2009 and 2012. But Kidero says the CMA’s move to implicate him in the embezzlement of the money was pure political witch hunt, meant to embarrass and scuttle his chances of being re-elected as Nairobi Governor last year. “I think CMA is not being honest and has resorted to playing politics instead of doing its work. Giving discounts is a common practice that is done when the market is flooded to boost sales,” Kidero said in an interview with the Star. Kidero explained that he was made aware of the investigations into the financial and operational challenges of the company through a letter by CMA’s chief executive officer Paul Muthaura on October 23, 2015, inviting him for an interview. The interview, Muthaura said in the letter, seen by the Star, was in regards to an independent forensic investigation on Mumias Sugar Company that was being carried out by a UK firm – BDO LLP – contracted by the market’s dog to undertake the probe. The former city boss honoured the invitation and the interview was done at the Authority’s premises on November 12, 2015. After the interview, Kidero alleged, the authority went silent until January 12, 2017 when it formed him that another firm – J Miles & Company – had taken over the investigations from BDO LLP. He met the new firm on February 2, 2017, after which, it went silent again until July 26, 2017 when they wrote a letter asking him to respond by August 9, 2017, a day after the general elections. Kidero, through his lawyer James Ochieng’ Oduol protested the move. “The time provided for us to respond is unreasonably short. The timing is also questionable and smirks of a political move in light of the upcoming elections and in respect of our client is vying to retain his seat as Governor of the County of Nairobi,” the lawyer told CMA in a letter dated July 31, 2017. Kidero, through the lawyer, argued that timing of the notice to show cause “appears to be politically instigated and malafides.” Kidero also argued that the section of CMA Act that the authority used to have him show cause had been repealed on December 15, 2015 by Muthaura himself and wondered why the authority used two firms to do one audit. “BDO LLP was hired at Sh40 million and at the time they were being sent away because they were not delivering the brief in a certain way and direction that CMA wanted, they had already been paid 25 per cent of the amount,” Kidero said. The Star could not reach BDO LLP to explain why its services were terminated or CMA to give reasons for the departure of the firm. The governor defended his 10-year at the Mumias Sugar Company saying that the firm what the firm achieved over the time was way above what had been targeted in the strategic plan. Kidero said the failure by the subsequent managers to secure the raw material – by paying farmers and ensuring there was no cane poaching, excessive importation of sugar and political interference are to blame for the company’s dwindling fortunes. “I was fought by local politicians because I refused to dance to their tune. They started inciting farmers to uproot canes and that is where the rains started beating Mumias Sugar Company,” he said. “Facts speak for themselves. When I was in Mumias, I delivered to the farmers and shareholders. I paid the employees in time and set on a path to grow the industry and make Kenya self-sufficient,” he said. According to Kidero, the company was in a loss making trajectory when he joined it in October 2003. During the year, the firm had posted a Sh425 million loss and Sh227 million the year before. He said that he turned around the company’s fortunes leaving it in a healthy operational and financial position by improving efficiency, enhancing cane availability, productivity and motivation of staff. “Revenue was Sh7.8 billion when I joined but I grew it to Sh16 billion and we were the only company that never received any money from Kenya Sugar Board to bail out payments for farmers,” said Kidero said. “Availability of raw material that, is cane was key. I enhanced efficiencies at both farm and factory level to increase cane productivity. I rehabilitated and modernized the equipment to enhance output and reduce importation of sugar,” he said. “Net assets were Sh9 billion but when I left in 2012 it was Sh27 billion. Cash flow was negative but we maintained a positive one during my tenure and when I left there was Sh1.2 billion in the bank. In 2002/03 shareholders were not getting any dividend but I paid out dividends until I left and that stopped immediately,” he said. As Kenya Sugar Manufacturers Association chairman, Kidero said, he ensured that non-COMESA sugar was not allowed in the country and that at any time the commodity, then it was enough – 250,000 metric tons - to meet the shortfall.