DPP Noordin Haji has ordered the arrest of Patel Dam owner Perry Mansukh on charges of manslaughter. At least 48 people died in May after the dam burst its banks causing raging waters to sweep through a residential area. Read: Uhuru mourns Solai 48 as state orders countrywide inspection of dams Also read: Solai Dam walls cracked long before tragedy, says report Also on the DPP's list is Vinoj Kumar who is the General Manager of Patel Coffee Estates Limited, and water rights officer Winnie Muthoni. Others are Water Resources Authority Sub-regional Manager Tomkin Odhiambo, Assistant Technical Coordination Manager Jacinta Were and Nema's Nakuru county officer Willee Omondi. Also to be charged are Nema's Nakuru environment officer Lynnet Jepchirchir, county water director Johnson Njuguna and sub-county administrator Julius Kavita. Haji said the nine officials should be charged with manslaughter. Muthoni, Odhiambo, Were, Omondi, Jepchirchir, Njuguna and Kavita will face an additional charge of neglecting duty. Mansukh, Kumar, Omondi and Jepchirchir will also be charged with failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report. Haji said: "I have established that there is criminal culpability on the part of WRA, Nema and Nakuru county. I am therefore satisfied that there exists adequate evidence with which to mount a prosecution against [these people]." "I have given consent to the DCI to immediately arrest all the suspects. My office is preparing to have the various suspects arraigned in court to answer to the charges." According to investigations by the DCI, the dam was constructed by unqualified staff who used farm equipment, the results being construction and design flaws. "The dams water was being supplied by Watkins stream which was abstracted completely by the owner, the DPP said, adding the water permit for the dam was irregularly issued. He also noted failure by Nema and WRA to ensure environmental compliance. Water CS Simon Chelugui told a Senate committee on Tuesday that there wasn't a licence for the dam. Testifying before the ad hoc committee investigating the tragedy, Chelugui said the only document in their records was the permit allowing Salt Manufacturers to erect a weir to divert water to the dam on the Patel farm in Nakuru. “We were shocked because there is a contradiction between what is on the ground and what is in the records,” he told the MPs. More on this: MPs told killer Solai dam not licenced, demand prosecution Related: Nema, WARMA failed to prevent Solai dam tragedy - KHRC says Click here for the latest political news