When we arrive at Wildwaters Lodge in Kangulumira village, about half an hour away from Jinja, a guard at the jetty calls the lodge, who send a wooden canoe to pick us up, steered by a man using a wooden paddle. As we glide towards the lodge, we see some of its traditionally thatched cottages, which are raised on stilts mid-stream on the Nile. The world-class lodge is nestled in its own private island surrounded by a riverine forest, with its 10 cottages spread along the circumference of the riverbank, giving each an incredible view. Mine has an expansive balcony, with a freestanding clawfoot bathtub perched underneath foliage. It overlooks a class six rapid called Hypoxia, which crashes onto the huge boulders on the river as it roars past. I love the sound, but for those who don’t, there are quieter rooms facing calmer stretches of water. The communal space has a restaurant, bar, mini-library, sun-deck from which various guests spend time tanning or lounging, complete with a plunge pool separated from the river’s class three rapids by a stone wall, and whose foundation is also curved from natural rock. Dinner on both days is a lavish, five-course meal, spread amidst a sea of flickering lights emitted from clay candleholders. Both times, the Nile Perch is the main draw, fresh from the sea and either pan seared, baked or grille. The lodge is famous for whitewater rafting, and we quickly sign up for a trip with their sister company, Adrift Uganda (they also offer bungee jumping, which is unfortunately not currently available since they are relocating to a new site). Going out onto the raging rapids of the Nile on a raft seems like a rather scary notion. Adrift Uganda, who introduced commercial whitewater rafting to the country, however have a great safety record, which was assuring. There were seven guests in our group, and our guide started with some theoretical safety instructions, after which we suited up and headed down to the river for practical lessons, which included what to do when a raft overturned on a rapid. This actually happened on a class four rapid called Bubugo, which translates to ‘condolences’. Given that the group unanimously voted that we navigate it from the middle, which increased our chances of flipping by about 90 per cent, we paddled hard in that direction. As the raft started its descent, it overturned from the sheer force of the water sending everyone hurling into the river. I can still vividly recall the spluttering for air as I came up to find that I was trapped under the raft with water rushing fast towards me, and had to manoeuvre my way from beneath to find that I had drifted upstream. One of the Adrift team members who had been following along on a solo kayak swiftly paddled over to help me onto the safety boat. It was only later while we were tucking into a delicious lunch that I realised I would certainly do it all over again!  WEBSITE: www.wildwaterslodge.com CONTACT: info@wild-uganda.com   Star Rating: