The problem of the Kikuyu community and ODM party leader Raila Odinga cannot be solved at the same level it was created, political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has said. "You cannot solve a problem at the same level it was created (Albert Einstein)... this is why Kikuyus must climb down," Ngunyi said via Twitter on Tuesday. His post attracted mixed reactions with some of his followers asking him to mind his own business. "'The only difference between the President & the DP is the title. Almost everything was shared in the middle, it's another nusu mkate chini ya maji," @BKiruja said. He added "In fact the DP will walk out of the marriage with more, literally. No one owes anyone any sh!t in 2022." @AlbertFezz said "Why not Raila to do the climbing down as you say." "Don't pull Kikuyu to political madness Kenyatta na jaramogi wamalize upuzi yao ya hate na mediocrity nahuko kwa kichaka," @harrisonkangar1 said. @fishtear said "I like the way you weave your stories. You do it so intelligently that someone can think you are not part of the thieves." "So you continue to fool me again what you mean Raila and Kikuyu so Uhuru is president i struggle like everyone does," @harrisonkangar1 said. @Zippora91068442 said "People like view our country's problems as Luos verses Kikuyus, yet corruption....impunity....disfunctional justice systems are our major problems." "What about Turkanas, Boranas, Ogiek, Kurias, Giriamas and the minority?" @Birirs said. Since the handshake between president Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, there have been cracks in Jubilee. Some Jubilee legislators have claimed that the handshake was a plot to lock out DP William Ruto out of the 2022 race even as the duo refute the claims. Ruto allies believe that Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua tops the list of people plotting against the DP’s 2022 bid. Ruto supporters told the Star in multiple interviews that apart from Kinyua, State House Controller Kinuthia Mbugua and the Interior PS Karanja Kibicho were working behind the scenes to frustrate Ruto’s bid to take over from Uhuru. More on this: Ruto allies: These are the people against DP Read: Why Uhuru and his men are against Ruto's bid