Kisii County Assembly yesterday petitioned the Executive to table a report in the House on the findings of the headcount of employees conducted on May. Members of the County Assembly (MCAs) raised concern over the delay by the Government to issue the report and yet the exercise took one week. Nyakoe MCA John Amisi urged speaker David Kombo that Kisii residents have a right to know how various employees were hired and the criteria used. “It is wrong for the Executive to delay in giving the report on the headcount of employees conducted about two months ago,” Amisi said “Residents have a right to know how the employees were hired in the last five years, their qualifications and the criteria used,” he added. Bomariba ward counterpart Protus Moindi supported the issued raised by Amisi was important but it was not was out contest. “I support the issue raised by my colleague is important but it is out context because he did not tell the House under which Standing Order he was referring to,” Moindi said. Kiogoro MCA Samuel Apoko said that the Executive has no option but to table the report because it was creating a lot of anxiety among residents. Kombo said that he considered the matter as urgent and directed that the report be tabled as soon as possible. On May 16, Governor James Ongwae launched the massive headcount of employees aimed at weeding out ghost workers. Ongwae said that the exercise was to help reduce the wage bill adding that the County has been spending most of its total revenue in paying salaries. The Governor said that the headcount will also help to establish whether there are death people existing in the payroll. “The headcount will not only help in weeding out of ghost workers but also be seeking to establish whether death people exist on the payroll,” The Governor said. Ongwae said that the headcount was also to establish whether there were people who had reached a retirement age but are still earning salary. “The process will greatly help the county government to know the number of employees who have attained retirement age but are still withdrawing salary,” Ongwae further said. He said employees who will be discovered to have been in possession of irrelevant documents will be required to explain how they obtained it. The headcount was further sought to establish what qualifications each employee has and whether the same matches with the department he or she works. The physical headcount of employees came after the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission (EACC) raised concern over the high number of employees in the county several months ago.