ERC, working with the police, have arrested at least 99 people for
operating unlicensed petroleum storage facilities in Industrial Area, Nairobi. In a statement on Friday, the energy regulator said the suspects were arrested on Thursday during a raid targeting twelve unlicensed premises. The commission said the suspects will be charged with various offences among
them; construction and operation of petroleum storage facilities without a
permit. They will also be booked for possession of adulterated and export-bound motor
fuels. A total of 62,350 litres of super petrol; 160,100 litres of diesel, and 159,200 litres of kerosene were recovered during the raid. "All the 12 sites that were found to have contravened the
regulations will be demolished," ERC said. The experts implored on Kenyans to be cautious of the adverse effects of adulterated on the economy, public
safety, vehicles, and air pollution. ERC, in a recent report, said the level of adulteration has reduced from a high of 25 per cent 19
years ago to 3 per cent as at 2017. Read: Drastic drop in fuel adulteration after ERC tightens grip on culprits Last year, the commission closed six petrol stations for
selling substandard fuel. They included Legit Kinamba in Nyandarua, Capital
filling station Busibwabo in Busia, Sylvester Okoth filing station in Busia,
and Petronas service station in Kiambu. Last month, Petroleum Institute of East Africa announced
that up to 75 per cent of 33 million litres of kerosene consumed monthly is
used to contaminate diesel and petrol. "Only five million litres of the monthly consumption is used
for lighting and cooking," PIEA said in a statement. Early this year, Eqwipetrol chief technical officer Ben
Ngugi reported that most adulteration happens during transportation of fuel. Motorists have being asked to turn to the commission should they experience jerking, excessive smoke from the exhaust, loss of engine power and engine stalls after fueling. They are also advised to obtain receipts or retain SMSs for mobile payment as evidence of purchase. Read: ERC closes six filling stations for selling adulterated fuel Also read: ERC to ban petroleum tanker drivers found ferrying adulterated fuel Click here for the latest political news 