The sugar that was impounded in Eastleigh during a crackdown on contraband had copper, MPs heard yesterday. Kenya Bureau of Standards acting MD Moses Ikiara said the sugar is unfit for human consumption. The Eastleigh sugar is part of the seized
contraband consignment being tested for heavy metals including copper, mercury and arsenic. Ikiara said they have not detected any
traces of mercury in the testing of the 1.3 million 50k bags seized from various locations countrywide. “KEBS detected copper in two samples drawn from sugar which
had been seized in Eastleigh and was detained at the DCI headquarters. No other
samples tested by KEBS have shown presence of heavy metals,” Ikiara said. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i had claimed there was mercury, copper and lead in imported sugar prompting a public
outcry. Ikiara was appearing before the joint committee on
Agriculture and Trade to present the report of findings of the ongoing tests. Kebs has so far tested 1,266,351 bags. Only 157,392 bags complied with the standards with the rest failing either on moisture content,
yeast and molds, colour, total viable count and polarisation. “Number of bags not complying with the standards is 837,244. Of these, 705,000 were from those declared as sugar
meant for reprocessing, which makes it compliant,” Ikiara said. Ikiara also told the committee co-chaired by Kanini Kega (Kieni)
and Adan Haji (Mandera South) that some sugar in the market is unfit for human consumption. He said the agency conducted market surveillance in 41
counties and collected 207 samples to establish the quality of sugar in the shelves. Out of the 207 samples, 53 samples have so far been
subjected to tests where 15 failed to meet the standards in
respect to moisture content, colour, polarisation, yeast and mold and total
viable count. Ikiara attributed poor handling during storage after release from the
port to the contamination. The samples were collected from various supermarkets and large
retail shops in Embu, Kajiado, Kwale, Machakos, Makueni, Murang’a, Nairobi, Nandi,
Nyeri, Taita Taveta, Uasin Gishu, Kiambu, Kakamega, Mombasa and Lamu counties. Those from Mombasa had the highest failures. Thje agency has already directed regional officers to trace stores
where the samples were taken from and have them removed from the shelves. “The level of failure
is high among the seized sugar compared to market surveillance,” Ikiara said. The MPs are expected to make a report to the House
on Tuesday next week.  