Until and unless a report published and endorsed by Parliament in the ’70s is scrapped, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s campaign to rid Kenya of graft will be an exercise in futility. His predecessors failed to tame graft because the Duncan Ndegwa team’s recommendation that public servants could conduct business to augment lean pay packets opened wide corruption floodgates. The team led by the former Central Bank governor Ndegwa tasked to look into conditions of service and salaries of public servants did not take into account conflict of interest and envisage abuse of office. It prescribed the toxic dose that has impoverished the majority and enriched the privileged few. Career public servants, as well as political leaders, took advantage of the loophole to use their positions to scramble for inflated contracts from the employer. Since then, most of the official time is spent on promoting the private businesses of public servants who are busy seeking ways and means to dig deeper bottomless pits to sink development budgetary allocations. The National Youth Service scandal is one such loophole amongst many where public funds have been diverted. Top officials are facing charges. Similarly, annual budgetary allocations for health, education and security are either squandered or diverted to private pockets. One example is the fat bank accounts held by junior police officers. These are the direct beneficiaries of the Ndegwa recommendations. Parliament unanimously adopted the Ndegwa Report, whose ramifications have left an indelible corruption scar on the public and private sectors. Both are grappling to survive in the face of insatiable greed by dishonest employees. The overwhelming public support for President Kenyatta’s war on corruption in high places pinches those who have taken advantage of the vagueness of the recommendation to enrich themselves. Little known to the President is the fact that looters of public funds use the ill-gotten cash for political campaigns and donate it to the construction of schools, clinics and worship places. Most of the chief guests in public functions are either looters of public funds or beneficiaries who argue that they made clean money through hard work. These tenderpreneurs are the same ones who are silently and actively fighting the proposed lifestyle audit. Public servants rank among the richest people in Kenya today and would fight tooth and nail to maintain the status quo. Genuine businesspeople are locked out of government contracts unless they bribe the people in authority to award them work. The President and his lieutenants’ quest to rid Kenya of corrupt elements could be treating the symptoms and not the root cause of graft, which has undermined the integrity and efficiency of state officers. Corruption is an entrenched criminal enterprise that could, through its authors, muster the courage to fight back in a big way. The President’s Big Four pillars and Vision 2030 could end up being pipe dreams if the root cause of corruption is not interrogated. The Building Bridges Initiative is an appropriate platform to fight graft and get the looted cash back. Whistleblowers should be encouraged to unmask the big fish and complicity should also be penalised. Scrap the Ndegwa Report and insist on enforcement of Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity or else call off the campaign against graft.  Freelance journalist