Thousands of Kibera residents could be left homeless after the government gave them two weeks to vacate to pave the way for road construction. Residents of Mashimoni, Lindi, Kambi Muru and Kisumu Ndogo villages will be affected. They are encroaching on 800 metres. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority is constructing the Sh2 billion Ngong Road-Kungu Karumba-Lang’ata link road. It will reduce traffic jam on Mbagathi Way, Ngong Road and Lang’ata Road. National Building Inspectorate secretary Moses Nyakiongora on Tuesday issued a notice to residents to vacate by July 16. “Upon the expiry of this notice, any structures or property found on the specified corridor will be demolished or removed from the road reserve at the trespassers’ risk and cost,” he said. Started in 2014 Kura’s communication officer John Cheboi yesterday said construction of the 2.5km road is almost complete. Work has been slowed by the encroachment on the corridor. “Those guys who are on the corridor are sitting on the solution to the jam on Mbagathi Way,” Cheboi said. Construction started in 2014 and Cheboi said only 800 metres, which is occupied by residents, is remaining. It should be completed in four months if the houses are cleared, he said. “The corridor has been marked and those living there are aware of it. So I don’t think there should be any fear because this is something that started long ago,” Cheboi said on the phone. Kibra MP Ken Okoth said he has petitioned the Ministry of Roads to ensure the families are reallocated and compensated fairly. “The IDP Act of 2012 is clear on the rights of citizens affected by development projects and the guidelines. So I call upon the Cabinet Secretary in charge of roads to make sure the affected persons are relocated in a humane manner,” he told the Star. The link is one of the 16 projects identified by the government in 2014 to reduce traffic jams in the city. The bypass, he said, will cut 60 metres wide from the DC’s office to Kibera South Health centre, then to Kungu Karumba Road. The road will have a 2.5-metre-wide cycle tracks on each side and pedestrian walkways. Kibera is one of the 26 informal settlements that the county plans to redevelop with low-cost housing, sanitation and security through public-private partnerships. The county has invited prospective investors to submit letters of interest, to take part in the Urban Regeneration of Informal Settlements programme. 