Despite criticisms from ODM
leaders and opponents, Jumwa has remained adamant: “I have already made up my
mind that I will support Ruto for the presidency in 2022.” “We cannot stop an idea whose
time has come,” Jumwa said. Jumwa’s unabashed
support for Ruto has stirred the Coast. Indeed, it has split the political
leadership.   Five months after initiating the debate on
Ruto, over two-dozen ODM MPs and five governors have supported her. These are
from Kilifi, Kwale, Taita Taveta, Tana River and Mombasa counties.  Only Lamu ODM leaders have been less vocal. To tame Jumwa’s political
rising star, House Minority Whip Junet Mohamed suggested her removal from the Parliamentary
Service Commission.   Party leader Raila
Odinga is yet to react, even though Jumwa says that there is nothing she has
done against the party and there are no wrangles between her and the opposition
chief.  In Jumwa’s view, her mingling
with other people is an extension of the handshake initiated by Raila. Beyond criticisms from
the party, Jumwa’s politics threatens to split existing alliances at the
Coast.  The camaraderie that has been in
place between Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kilifi counterpart, Amason
Kingi, is under threat.  The two are
apparently partying ways. Even in the uncertain
future of the Coast region with respect to the March 9 handshake, Joho has
stuck with RaIla in ODM.  Kingi, on the
other hand, has called for the formation of a homegrown party. He has also doubted
benefits from the March 9 handshake, if land issues are not addressed .To
compound the split between these two governors, Kingi is establishing rapprochement
with Ruto, whicle Joho is moving towards Senator Gideon Moi. The two leaders pushing
the Ruto presidential bid bandwagon are Jumwa and Msambeni MP Suleiman Dori,
who is also the chairman of the Coast parliamentary Group.  However, it is Jumwa who is being targeted,
probably because she is the most vocal and daring. Jumwa’s latest
about-turn to Ruto is intriguing, but not exactly new.  Before the 2013 election, she was an ardent
supporter of Ruto.  She was the
anchorwoman of table banking in Kilifi, the women saving initiative by Ruto’s
wife, Rachel.  Because of the rising tide
against the Jubilee Party, Jumwa ditched Ruto for ODM, which was the winning
side, first as the Kilifi Woman Rep. It is easy to argue had it not been for
the ODM, Jumwa would never have been elected. Over time, politics had
to change and Jumwa’s political association with Raila has been on the rise, at
times overshadowing Governors Kingi and Joho — the two cornerstones of ODM at
the Coast.  It is this departure from the
Raila camp that has remained a puzzle to both her supporters and party
officials. In her defense, she says
the Coast cannot remain in the opposition forever.  In her view, it is time the region joins the
government, and in her reckoning, that should be Ruto’s in 2022.  This is  Jumwa’s Achilles’ heel. Can she win a repeat election? Those who support her
removal, defection, or expulsion from ODM argue that without this party, she
cannot retain her seat in another election. 
I disagree.  On the contrary, she would
be re-elected with a huge margin and ODM’s loss would be felt across the Coast,
impacting negatively on its chances in 2022. Now, let me tell you why.  First, her views in  regard to opposition politics and fatigue
reflect the true position of many coastal communities who want change.  Their decades-long support for ODM has not
yielded tangible results. Second, Jumwa enjoys the
support of women constituents, who are the bulk of the voters in Malindi.  She has invested in women and youth empowerment,
as well as men through education and sports. 
Her development record within the short time remains unchallenged in
Kilifi. Third, the ODM wave in
the Coast is on the decline.  Since March
9, a lot of things have happened here, including political realignments that
affect ODM’s influence.  Some of these
reverses are the ODM leaders’ own making. 
People are disillusioned the party shunned inclusivity in the
appointment and nominations of Coast leaders and people to Parliamentary
positions.  For example, it took immense
pressure from Coast ODM MPs to have Jumwa appointed to the PSC. Also, in the absence of
ODM, Jumwa can opt to vie for re-election on anyone of the available local
parties, pending the formation of a viable local party.   The parties most likely to absorb Jumwa if
push comes to shave, include the Devolution Party of Kenya, Kady Asili, and Shirikisho. Of necessity, I would
dissuade Jumwa from vying on the Jubilee ticket, which remains immensely
unpopular here. Finally, to understand
the cultural and political dynamics of the Mijikenda, the community Jumwa hails
from, it is important to appreciate the role women have played in the past to drive
change.  The perfect role model in this
instance is Mekatilili wa Menza, who fearlessly challenged British colonial
domination among the Giryama.  She dared to
tread where men feared to go. Of course, Jumwa is not Mekatilili.
 Times and dynamics have changed.  However, looked at it from a historical
perspective, Jumwa could as well be in the footsteps Mekatilili — she fears
nothing but fear itself. The overall impact of
these unfolding events is that Jumwa’s style of politics may serve as a catalyst
for change.  The region that has for
decades remained a spectator in national politics is gradually re-awakening
from its own opposition slumber.    