Three men were buried in an emotional sendoff at Ngaremara on the Meru-Isiolo border yesterday. Loro Etodo, Akidor Ayapara and Sylvester Ekai were allegedly killed by police in armored personnel couriers on Monday. The operation was meant to recover stolen animals a few metres from the Meru-Isiolo highway. Residents said police killed innocent persons and used excess force. Joseph Kalapata from Epidim village, Tigania East constituency, said the operation was meant to recover animals stolen from Samburu. Kalapata said the Turkana community in Chumvi Yare, Ngaremara and Epidim villages had to scamper for safety during the police raid. “At about 1pm they arrived at Epidim and residents had to run away. Police were shooting at innocent villagers,” Kalapata said. “They used an armoured vehicle which was acquired to fight terrorists. We are not terrorists. Why did they destroy people’s homes and killed the innocent?” Kalapata said a boy and an elderly woman sustained serious gunshot injuries and are admitted at Isiolo Hospital. “We are bitter that the government is killing its own people and Ipoa is looking the other way,” he said. Kalapata added that 3,000 people have been displaced and 10 primary schools and three secondary schools are closed. The primary schools are Nomads, Kiwanja, Chumvi Yare, Brothers, Lowangila, Daaba, Erimet, Emegen, Ngaremara, Attan. The closed secondary schools are Arimiet Secondary, Ngaremara High and Ngaremara Girls High. Kalapata said Interior CS Fred Matiang’i should intervene as people are living in fear. Veronica Nasuru from Epiding village said police raided villages and fired their guns in areas close to schools. “We suspect this was not an operation to flush out bandits. There are no livestock in people’s houses.They shot at unarmed men and ran them over in the armoured vehicle,” she said. Grace Loring Community policing chairperson Isiolo subcounty said what happened is not good as dialogue would have been involved. Former Isiolo North MP Joseph Samal said the Turkana community has lost livestock to Samburu. “The government should not have used force and brought four armoured vehicles and hundreds of police,” he said. “The government should have had dialogue with the two communities as it knowns the cattle rustling disputes have been there. We suspect this might be a plot to displace the community from the land as it is meant to benefit from Lapsset,” Samal said. He said the government should investigate the deaths of the three villagers and prosecute the killers. Resident Samuel Lonono said schoolchildren from Erimet and Kiwanja had to run for safety. 