The fresh vetting of heads of accounting and procurement ran into headwinds again after the Employment Labour Relations court declared sections of the circular unlawful on Friday. Justice Byram Ongaya declared that the mass suspension of the public servants and paying them at the same time was not only unconstitutional but adverse on taxpayers. This happened as President Uhuru Kenyatta gave a lease of life to projects that that may have stalled due to lack of funds or suffered from changing priorities by ordering their completion. The President put breaks on new projects until the old ones are completed, except those linked to the Big Four Agenda — which he said will still require express authority from the Treasury. Handshake support In keeping with the spirit of the March 9 handshake, NASA leader Raila Odinga said that the war on corruption by President Uhuru Kenyatta had just started. According to the Opposition Leader, corruption, if not tackled, will lead the country in the wrong direction. He said his decision to join President Uhuru Kenyatta was for the sake of peace and to end corruption. Is Ruto right? In the current anti-corruption purge, the man in the eye of the storm is Deputy President William Ruto, whose supporters are convinced the crackdown is politically motivated to cut him down to size over 2022 succession politics, rather than bona fide enforcement of criminal law. Invariably, in the heat of all this, a fortnight ago, the DP had an interesting interview with NTV’s Mark Masai, where he made several remarkable observations about corruption in Kenya. Senators bout Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja on Friday told Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen to stop disrespecting President Uhuru Kenyatta by rubbishing the Head of State’s directives. The President must be respected as the Jubilee Party leader. Any issues arising from his quest to fight corruption and foster peace should be handled internally, Sakaja said in a statement. In the main feature in SASA read about Alice Wairimu, 17, one inspiring young woman living with disability and a student at Uthiru Girls Secondary School, who missed a chance to attend one of her favourite schools in Kenya after being turned down because she is a dwarf.