National government has stepped in to help address challenges facing the smooth operation of the capital Nairobi. Most county projects are long overdue following challenges in Finance and pending bills. Speaking on Sunday at African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa at Kayole Deputy President William Ruto said the National Government will partner with the County Government to ensure all projects are completed. "We have not neglected the challenges facing Nairobi. We know the importance of the city of Nairobi as then capital," said Ruto At least 30,000 more title deeds are expected to be issued out to Eastlands residents of Nairobi by the Head of State and the Deputy President before December this year. In May this year President Uhuru Kenyatta issued out 50,000 title deeds to Nairobi residents which would unlock the upwards of Sh 20 billion through business and investment. Land cartels have been on many occasions blamed by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to have illegally grabbed public lands thus leading to a setback in some county projects. The National government has committed to build more schools, technical training colleges and hospitals within the city. In May this year President Uhuru Kenyatta issued out 50,000 title deeds to Nairobi residents which would unlock the upwards of Sh 20 billion through business and investment. Kariobangi Nyayo Wards Hospital which had commenced constructions 1988, has been stalled up to date due to lack of funds to complete it. “The Hospital has 120 beds and other hospitals facility With the aim to decongest Kenyatta National Hospital, the National Government has pledged to allocate funds from the recently approved 2018-2019 National Budget and facilitate the completion of the hospital within the next six months in order to serve Nairobians. Shortage of water supply has been outlined as one of the outstanding challenges faced within the country’s capital as water rationing has been taking place due to the prolonged drought since 2014. Dp Ruto said the construction of the Northern collector water tunnel which is ongoing is 60 per cent complete and is expected to be completed by the end of the year to supply Nairobi with water. Come next month, President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to commission the commence Phase Two of the construction of Northern collector water tunnel and Ruiru II project. The construction of the Sh 6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel is to expected to boost water supply in Nairobi by 140,000,000 litres. In attempt to stop the almost annually Gikomba Market fires, the National Government has set aside Sh 3 billion to build a new market. “In the next two years we will have a new market which service Nairobians and also boost the business of the traders operating in Gikomba Market,” said Ruto. Gikomba Market which is the largest open air market in Nairobi has been prone to fires which are normally said to have caused by electricity defaults, fight among traders and land grabbers and, fight among traders themselves. The recent fire incident being last month on the 28th where by at least 15 people died and 60 were injured. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja had called upon demanded for a prompt action from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to apply the same zeal he has used to fight corruption to unearth those behind the frequent fires in Gikomba Market. On the same, small scale traders operating in down town streets e.g Luthuli avenue and Kirinyaga road won’t be affected as the National Government continues a crackdown on the traders selling contraband goods. This came as a result of a meeting held by the traders and government officials. On road and infrastructure, Sh 4 billion had been earlier sent aside towards upgrading county roads within Eastlands. President Uhuru had earlier given a directive that no new road constructions shall take place until all roads in Nairobi's Eastlands had been rehabilitated. Road agencies such as Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KERRA) and Kenya Urban Roads Authority(KURA)who have been in the front row in some of the Road projects within the City. Currently there are ongoing road projects across Nairobi,with upgrading of Outer Ring Road into dual carriage way nearly coming to completion. The road serves the city’s populous Eastlands suburbs with a population of over 2.6 million people. 