Two police officers who are
facing murder charges for the killing of a woman at City Park in Nairobi are seeking
to block additional charges of attempted murder. The prosecution want Administration
Police Constable William Chirchir from Makadara Police Station and AP Godfrey
Kirui from Industrial Area Police Station to stand trial for attempting to
murder Bernard
Chege. The two have already denied
murdering Janet Waiyaki on May 20. They were arraigned before Senior
Principal Magistrate Martha Mutuku on Thursday but they declined to take a plea on the
basis that there is a pending bail ruling before High Court Judge James Wakiaga. Justice Wakiaga will rule on July
26 whether the two officers will be released on bail in the murder case. Read: Cops in City Park shooting probe still at work, won't be interdicted until charged - Owino Through their advocate Ham
Lang’at, they said they cannot face a charge of at the magistrate court when they
are facing a capital offence at the High Court. “We are not ready to take plea until
the High Court rule on our bail application” the told court yesterday. Consequently the magistrate deferred
the plea taking to July 17. Waiyaki, 41, died of gunshot
wounds while Chege, 26, was left fighting for his life. The prosecution says the officers
fired 15 bullets into a vehicle that she and Chege were in at the public park. Their trial at the High Court is
set to start on November 20 and will be heard for three days.  International Justice Mission (IJM) has
applied and allowed to participate in the case. The prosecution has objected to
their release on bail arguing that they are a flight risk and may also interfere
with witnesses . However the officers through Langat
have argued that they are constitutionally entitled to bail and there is
nothing before court to suggest or prove they will meddle in the case. “The prosecution has tabled any compelling
evidence in court to show why the accused should be denied bail,” the lawyer
argued. Read: IPOA probes City Park shooting after public uproar Click here for
the latest political news