Deputy President William Ruto has urged Kenyans to support him for the top seat in 2022 because he has the "energy and the brains" to serve. Ruto said this on Thursday while noting that good leadership, not cheap politics, will spur the economy. “I have a lot in my brain in terms of agendas to move this country forward as some of my competitors continue to spread propaganda and unworthy politics," he said. He addressed the public at Tenges Boys’ High School in Baringo Central after launching the 45km Ainobmoi-Barwessa road and water projects. "I need your support so I can get the strength to serve all Kenyans," added the DP who was accompanied by his wife. He reiterated that the elections season ended last year so it is time for leaders to focus on the Big Four agenda on food security, universal healthcare, affordable housing and manufacturing. Related: 2022: Kikuyu elders tell DP Ruto to retire Also read: Ruto’s running mate headache for 2022 Ruto said contractors will soon begin work on the 100km Karandi-Mochongoi-Marigat, Boror-Sirwa-Ochii road, the 70km Mogotio-Emsos-Mugurin-Lake Bogoria road, and the 40km Kipsaraman-Kinyach roads. He lauded the government of Japan for partnering with Kenya to sink boreholes across the country. MPs Asman Kamama (Tiaty), William Cheptumo (Baringo North), Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central) and Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio) were among those present. Others were Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui, Irrigation PS Fred Segor, Baringo Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony and former Baringo Central MP lawmaker Sammy Mwaita. Cheptumo told Ruto: "The people of Baringo are aware of your plans in the 2022 election. We will support you." He said the Nandi supported retired President Daniel arap Moi for 24 years so it is time Baringo residents to return the favour. Chelugui noted that the government allocated Sh900 billion for water projects nationwide. More on this: Raila warns his MPs to keep off Ruto 2022 bid Click here for the latest political stories