Security was tightened at Kisumu International Airport and in K'Ogelo, Siaya, for visits by former US President Barack Obama. Obama, who landed on Sunday, left Nairobi for Kisumu in a private jet and will go to his father’s ancestral home in K'Ogelo village in a chopper. As was the case when he first visited Kenya as a sitting president in July 2015, vehicles entering the Kisumu airport underwent thorough security checks. Uniformed and plain clothes security agents used sniffer dogs to inspect every vehicle.  Police officers stand guard ahead of former US President Barack Obama's arrival in K'Ogelo, Siaya county, July 16, 2018. /LAMECK BARAZA  Motorists wait for security checks before entering Kisumu International Airport where former US President Barack Obama's will land, July 16, 2018. /COURTESY In addition, a heavy contingent of traffic police officers was deployed to routes leading to the airport while others were seen patrolling in police vehicles. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o receiveed the ex-president at the airport. Obama will be hosted by his grandmother Mama Sarah to a private breakfast. The two are expected to spend some time together before the former world leader heads to the launch of Sauti Kuu Foundation, which his half sister Auma founded. It is expected that about 400 dignitaries will go to K'Ogelo with Obama. Read: 'Sauti Kuu' launch: 400 dignitaries to escort Obama in Kenyan visit  A member of the public undergoes a security check ahead of former US President Barack Obama's arrival in K'Ogelo, Siaya county, July 16, 2018. /LAMECK BARAZA  South African singer Yvonne Chaka Chaka arrives at Sauti Kuu center in K'Ogelo, Siaya county, for a performance during a visit by former US President Barack Obama, July 16, 2018. /LAMECK BARAZA On Sunday, Obama met President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House in Nairobi and opposition leader Raila Odinga at Kempinski hotel. From Kenya, he will head to South Africa to deliver the keynote address at the 16th Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture in Johannesburg. Read: Obama’s Mandela lecture comes at auspicious time for democracy Also read: Obama's emotional return to K'Ogelo Click here for the latest political news