The Kisumu government has introduced a cashless collection system in a bid to reach its Sh5 billion annual revenue target. The county has been struggling to collect Sh1 billion annually for five years yet it has a capacity to net Sh5 billion. Finance executive Nerry Achar said Strathmore University and Cooperative Bank have been contracted to collect revenue after River Bank’s contract expired. He said the new system will seal loopholes through which revenue was lost. The automated system will also weed out cartels that had been looting public money by running a parallel ticketing system, he said. Achar admitted the introduction of the new system has led to a significant revenue drop that is about 50 per cent of normal daily collections. He, however, said the drop was expected with the transition, adding the change was necessary. Achar allayed fears the county was losing revenue. “Kisumu has been collecting about Sh1 billion annually for the last five years. With the new system we believe Kisumu can collect between Sh5 billion to Sh 7 billion per year,” he said. He attributed the losses to “normal technical hiccups expected in any transition” and assured residents the issues are being addressed with the service providers. The county expects to recover from the losses once the new system is stabalised. The finance boss expressed confidence more collections will be registerd and cited research conducted by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. knbs research According to the research, Kisumu was only collecting revenue from a population of 40,000 despite having the potential to earn revenue from 197,000 people. “With the new system, the county will capture areas we have not been covering such as land rates and advertising. We are optimistic the county will be able to collect more than Sh300million per month,” Achar said. The system is mobile based and traders will use their phones to make payments while those without phones will be helped by supervisors with printers to process receipts. It also comes with a geo-mapping function that will ensure traders have unique identification numbers for easy monitoring. Low revenue collection has been largely blamed on corruption among officials in the revenue office and cartels who allegedly run parallel systems. 