Is a major Cabinet reshuffle
in the offing? Well, apparently the rising speculation of a shake-up by President Uhuru Kenyatta is sending
shockwaves among Cabinet secretaries. Some of them, Corridors is informed, have
started reducing their personal effects in office just in case the hammer falls
on them. It is alleged that some have began lobbying to be retained, with emissaries
reaching out to friends and relatives of the powers that be to sound them out.
Some, our moles, intimated have reached out to Opposition leader Raila Odinga
who is currently enjoying a cordial relationship with the President to vouch
for them when decision time comes. Seems like the ripples of the handshake will
be felt for a very long time and its full implications are yet to be felt. ***** Nyeri is at it again. An MCA has
raised a red flag over the introduction of stripper clubs in Nyeri town and
called for their closure. The lawmaker alleges that there was an outcry from
young women who say their husbands have deserted their matrimonial homes for
the clubs. The MCA championing for their closure argues that the strip clubs
will ruin many homes. That notwithstanding, Corridors has learned that one
of the clubs has resorted to the services of additional strippers from Nairobi,
who mainly operate from Wednesday to Friday, and are idle on weekends. However,
some leaders from the county are allegedly opposed to the move to regulate or
shut the clubs. A mole whispers to Corridors that the leaders are yearning to
patronize them unnoticed. ***** Random security drills
conducted in various offices of county governors in Central Kenya have raised
eyebrows among staff. Our moles say that although the drills are meant to test the
state of security in the offices, they have been taken too far. Corridors has
learned that the frequent drills involve 'smuggling' weapons such as guns into
the governors' offices. Officials carrying out the drills are said to be
entering with guns, mostly AK47, in the offices unnoticed, which is terrifying. ***** Senior officials from a county
government in Nyanza are silently complaining about the misuse of Sh46 million
meant for capacity building on public participation and civic education donated
by an international organisation. The officers told Corridors that the money
meant to train 40 ward administrators for 12 days had been diverted to a
suspicious bank account which has the area governor's personal assistant and
bodyguard as signatories. Our mole confided that the administrators were trained
for only four days using less than Sh4 million. Where is the
balance? Click here for
the latest political news