The KPLC board of directors has appointed Jared Keter Otieno as the new acting CEO following the arrest of Ken Tarus on Sunday. Tarus, his predecessor Ben Chumo and nine other senior managers were arrested in connection to an irregular award of labour and transport contracts to 33 companies, which were not qualified. While unveiling the interim team, Energy CS Charles Keter said the suspects currently facing charges in court remain suspended until further notice. Peter Waweru will be Acting General Manager while Joseph Gathure takes over as manager connectivity. Joyce Awinja is the new acting manager for supply. "Agrey Chesambuli will be acting manager customer services, David Mwaniki manager infrastructure, Jeremiah Kiptanui manager KPLC international and Charles Ngeno manager internal audit," Keter said. The CS said Titus Makau will act as the new acting manager ICT, while David Mnandi will be acting manager Human resource and Imelda Bore takes over management of corporate affairs. George Kiiru will be managing Business strategy and Ambrose Lemaun general business. "KPLC's role in service delivery is critical to the country and with a whole team of about 19 top managers facing charges, it is evident that we have lost the best. It is sad and painful but we don't want to indulge in matters before the court. We know the judges will make their decisions and justice will be served," he said. Read:Police should stop night, weekend arrests for graft suspects - Tom Ojienda Keter said though the move is not a sign of shifting goals posts, KPLC has done well in terms of connectivity despite the many challenges and negative media publicity. Keter assured stakeholders that their shares are safe and there is no need for alarm. "KPLC is a listed company so shareholders should not worry, the board is fully in charge and with the interim team in place, we hope to be up and running because we cannot shy away from making decisions," he added. The CS however took issues with the manner in which the managers had been arrested. He accused police of rounding them in the night yet they are Kenyan citizens serving in the public sector. "Let us be humane when making arrests, the suspects are here and are not running away. Rounding and arresting people in the night is not air," the CS said. Th suspects will spend another day in cells pending judgement on whether they be granted bail. Read; Court adjourns Kenya power managers bail hearing to Tuesday Click here for the latest political news   