Police have rescued a school girl from lynching by fellow students who accused her of forcing them to engage in lesbianism. Cops from Ugunja police division whisked away the student from St Francis Rang’ala Girls High School yesterday. The girl had been expelled from the school due to claims of lesbianism, only to be re-admitted on the basis of a court order. Ugunja deputy OCPD Sabina Kerubo said they sneaked the girl out through the school’s back gate and flagged down a private vehicle to escape the angry students. She was briefly held at Ugunja police station as her parents were summoned. A source at the police station lamented that immediately the parents were summoned, a lawyer called blaming the police for removing the girl from school despite a court order. One parent claimed a group of Form 4 girls had attacked a Form 1 student at night, demanding that she engages in sexual acts with them. “I was summoned to the school and upon arrival, my daughter narrated to me her ordeal at the hands of a group of girls who wanted to force her into lesbianism,” said a parent of the Form 1 girl. The mother said the girls warned her daughter that even if she screamed, the school authorities would do nothing because they knew what was happening. “It was at this point that she screamed, attracting other students and the matron who rushed to her rescue,” the mother said. The school principal, Susan Owino, said there was an on going case involving the girl held by police. Siaya criminal investigations officer Moses Cheruiyot said police had rush to the school to rescue the girl. Cheruiyot said that the girl had been ordered back to the institution on the orders of the high court after her parent sought legal redress. “While trying to look for ways of curbing student unrest, some parents are giving us a hard time by siding with their children instead of helping to discipline them,” he lamented. He said whereas it was imperative to respect court rulings, the police had to remove the child to Ugunja police station for her safety. This is not the first time parents have sued over alleged discrimination of their daughters because of lesbianism. In 2015, five form four students expelled from St Georges Girls’ Secondary School on suspicion of being lesbians sued for victimisation and discrimination. The 17-year-olds asked the court to order their immediate readmission, saying they had a right to basic education. The school disciplinary committee said the girls were caught red-handed in an act that the school terms a major offence. “Your daughter named above has been suspended from school for gross misconduct. You are required to appear before the school disciplinary committee on April 24 to show because why your daughter should not be excluded from the institution,” read a letter sent to the girls’ parents, signed by the principal. During the disciplinary committee session, the parents were questioned whether their daughters were lesbians. Apart from seeking damages, the parents wanted the school to avail time and resources to enable their daughters catch up.    