About 550 students of Mirogi Boys' Secondary School in Ndhiwa, Homa Bay, have been sent home for allegedly causing unrest in the school. The school was closed indefinitely on Sunday after the students turned unruly on Saturday afternoon. Speaking to the Star today, county education director Margret Mwandale said the institution was closed as there were signs of more trouble. “The board of management closed it to avert damage of property by the learners,” Mwandale said, adding she instructed the management to meet soon and decide on the reopening date. “Form four students should come back and prepare for the national exams. Any wastage of time is a disservice to them,” she said. Area MP Martin Owino asked the students to inform authorities of their concerns before resorting to causing chaos. “The management was justified in closing the school," he said. Earlier in the county, fires were reported at Oriwo Boys', Kandiege Mixed and Gendia Boys' high schools. On Friday, four students were charged at Homa Bay Law Courts with attempted arson. The students from Homa Bay High School pleaded not guilty before Homa Bay Principal Magistrate Thomas Obuto. They are accused of committing the crime with 30 others in the case that will be mentioned on July 31. They were freed on Sh50,000 bond each. Read: Amina to principals: Keep off meetings, stay in school to avert dorm fires NO EXAM LEAKAGES Meanwhile, Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang has reiterated his warning that students who burn property at their schools will face the full force of the law. In Malindi to mark Education Day on Saturday, he told the students to look for firewood for cooking or keeping themselves warm in the cold season instead of burning facilities. The PS asked petrol stations not to sell kerosene and petroleum to people with containers as this contributes to the menace. He also told learners to focus on preparations for the national examinations and "forget about leakages" as nobody will have access to the tests before D-Day. “Everybody will see the exams for the first time in the rooms. Nobody, not even cartels, will see the papers before," he said. Kipsang reiterated that the government will not eliminate boarding schools but add the day option. He said the system worked in public universities when they introduced parallel courses which have seen the enrollment of more than 500,000 learners. The PS also referred to day schools in Rwanda and Uganda which have over 4,500 students and perform well. Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa organised the Education Day ceremony to reward the best performing schools. Related: Parents will pay for school fire damage Also see: [VIDEO] Parents will pay for damages, KCSE unaffected, CS Amina says on school fires MORE FIRES Cases of fires continue to rock schools across the country. At Makuyu Girls' Secondary School in Murang'a county, two dormitories went up in flames from about 8 am on Sunday as the students cleaned. One hundred and thirty students lost their belongings in the fires that were extinguished with the help of neighbours. Deputy county commissioner Titus Macharia and education officers held a meeting with the management of the school. At neighbouring Makuyu Boys' Secondary School, eight students were arrested after trying to burn down a dormitory. They were caught setting a curtain on fire and were found with a bottle of petrol. Students from Gatura Girls' had burned two beds at their dormitory on Saturday night when police and residents stopped them. Nyanza is leading
with at least 26 cases of school fires. In that region, 4,200 students have been sent home following unrest. Click here for the latest political news