The Judiciary's procurement processes are a costly mess, Auditor General Edward Ouko's latest reports have revealed. Aside from stalled projects worth billions of shillings, Ouko has flagged the Judiciary for irregular payments, cooked records and slow debt payment. Embu, Narok, Lodwar, Eldama Ravine, Mavoko, Muhoroni, Nyamira and Bomet law courts all have all been flagged recently for irregular project management. In Embu, the Judiciary awarded a Sh229 million contract to Manyata Limited to construct a five-story building. In his 2015-16 report, the auditor flagged 17 anomalies involving this project. The most peculiar was a Sh8 million standby generator. Records indicate the generator was tested in the presence of Judiciary representatives on January 23, 2015 — four months before a meeting to accept the generator and one year before it was delivered. The Judiciary also paid for the generator without considering that it lacks capacity to power lifts in the Embu law courts. “It is not clear how a test could be conducted on January 23, 2015, and deliveries done one year later on January 13, 2016. In the event the generator fails to power the lifts, the client may lack adequate avenue for redress," the auditor said. “In the circumstances, it has not been possible to confirm the propriety and value-for-money in the Sh8,058,350 expenditure for the generator," Ouko says. For the same project, the Judiciary paid Sh480,000 for construction security but the contractor only hired two guards to protect equipment on site. Ouko says that equipment was worth millions and required more security, considering the amount paid for protection. Read:Uhuru freezes new projects until ongoing ones are completed The Mombasa Court of Appeal building renovation also alarmed Ouko who says the Sh54 million paid for the job resulted in substandard work. Tender documents listed the renovation as costing Sh29 million, but the contractor — Damtax Enterprises — wrote to the Judiciary insisting the amount was wrong and demanded more. Damtax took over the site in November 2014 but in November 2016 when Ouko's team probed the Judiciary's books, the job was incomplete. The Judiciary awarded a Sh24 million tender to Loima Construction in August 2007 for 52 weeks. But the contractor abandoned the site before completing the job. Fast forward to May 2015, when the Judiciary floated a new tender to complete the job. Resjos Enterprises won the tender. Completion was to cost Sh65 million, almost three times the original allocation. When Resjos took over the site, completion was 70 per cent. When Ouko's team did a physical inspection, the project was still unfinished. Read:Uhuru puts brakes on funding new projects The Sh686 million Bomet law courts, which Ouko flagged in 2013-14, caused a storm last year when the Law Society of Kenya demanded its completion. In 2012, the Judiciary awarded a Sh81 million tender for a prefabricated courtroom building. Six months later another tender was floated to construct a building housing Bomet law courts — Sh686 million. LSK protested work was too slow. It said High Court judge Erastus Orina,based in Bomet, was forced to operate in a tiny room without water, electricity or washrooms. The Auditor General now adds that Kericho, Baricho, Eldoret and Naivasha law courts either had discrepancies in their records or surrendered less cash than actually collected. In Baricho 12 receipt books and 30 case files disappeared. Ouko has also criticised the Judiciary for not possessing ownership documents for several parcels of land and vehicles across the country. Also See:What Uhuru’s freeze on new projects means Click here for the latest political news