Former US president Barack Obama has recommended six Africa's best books to read in Summer as he prepares to tour Kenya and South Africa next week. "This week, I’m travelling to Africa for the first time since I left office – a continent of wonderful diversity, thriving culture, and remarkable stories," he said. Via Twitter on Friday, Obama said he was proud to visit sub-Saharan Africa more times than any other sitting President. "Kenya, of course, is the Obama ancestral home. I visited for the first time when I was in my twenties and I was profoundly influenced by my experiences – a journey I wrote about in my first book, Dreams from My Father," he said. Obama is expected to land in Ng’iya Girls’ School’s football field in Siaya before being driven to Kogalo to launch his half-sister’s foundation. Before this, Obama will meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga in Nairobi. More on this: Barack Obama to land in Ng’iya Girls’ School field Also read: Oprah in Obama’s delegation to Kenya Obama said his Foundation will convene 200 extraordinary young leaders from across the continent in South Africa. "...and I’ll deliver a speech to mark the 100th anniversary of Nelson Mandela’s birth," he said. Noting that over the years he has often drawn inspiration from Africa's extraordinary literary tradition, the former President listed books to be read during summer. They include;  Things Fall Apart by Chinua AchebeA true classic of world literature, this novel paints a picture of traditional society wrestling with the arrival of foreign influence, from Christian missionaries to British colonialism. A masterpiece that has inspired generations of writers in Nigeria, across Africa, and around the world.  A Grain of Wheat by Ngugi wa Thiong’oA chronicle of the events leading up to Kenya’s independence, and a compelling story of how the transformative events of history weigh on individual lives and relationships.  Long Walk to Freedom by Nelson MandelaMandela’s life was one of the epic stories of the 20th century. This definitive memoir traces the arc of his life from a small village, to his years as a revolutionary, to his long imprisonment, and ultimately his ascension to unifying President, leader, and global icon. Essential reading for anyone who wants to understand history – and then go out and change it.  Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi AdichieFrom one of the world’s great contemporary writers comes the story of two Nigerians making their way in the U.S. and the UK, raising universal questions of race and belonging, the overseas experience for the African diaspora, and the search for identity and a home.  The Return by Hisham MatarA beautifully-written memoir that skillfully balances a graceful guide through Libya’s recent history with the author’s dogged quest to find his father who disappeared in Gaddafi’s prisons.  The World As It Is by Ben RhodesIt’s true, Ben does not have African blood running through his veins. But few others so closely see the world through my eyes like he can. Ben’s one of the few who’ve been with me since that first presidential campaign. His memoir is one of the smartest reflections I’ve seen as to how we approached foreign policy, and one of the most compelling stories I’ve seen about what it’s actually like to serve the American people for eight years in the White House.   