Usenge High School in Bondo has been closed indefinitely after a fire destroyed two dormitories on Saturday. Siaya county director of Education Masibo Kituyi told the Star on the phone arson is suspected. No one was injured in the fire that began at 9pm and a probe is underway. The fire broke out while students were in for their evening preps. The dorms house 150 students each. Only a few items were salvaged as the fire spread very fast. Woman Representative Christine Ombaka is concerned about the wave of student unrest in Siaya schools. Six schools in region have been closed. Ombaka urged school administrators to dialogue with students. She also appealed to students not to destroy school property because it is a burden to parents. Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe urged the Ministry of Education to employ professional counsellors in schools.  NO COUNSELLING CAPACITY “School managers are sometimes unable to solve problems between them and students amicably. The guiding and counselling system in place is not working. People tasked with the role lack capacity,” Okumbe said. Trained counsellors have skills to deal with the difficulties students face, he said. Okumbe said lack of cooperation between student leaders and players in the education sector ignites protests in schools. He warned that locking student leaders out of education stakeholder meetings also contributes to rebellion. Okumbe was flanked by Siaya Education executive Dorothi Owino. “The ministry needs to come up with a way of ensuring student leaders are involved in decisions on matters affecting them,” he said. Kenya Union of Post-Primary Teachers secretary general for Siaya Sam Opondo backed the deputy governor. He said the guiding and counselling strategies should be changed. He advised students to use existing communication channels in their schools to air out their grievances instead of going on the rampage. Maliera Boys Secondary was closed last thursday after students threatened to strike. They demanded a school bus and entertainment during the weekend. Principal Samuel Oyondi said he decided to close the institution to avoid destruction of property. Other schools that have gone on strike are Ng’iya Girls Secondary in Alego-Usonga subcounty and Maranda Boys High in Bondo subcounty. Students in Nyamonye High and Ambira High have also been sent home.