KPLC bosses in cell Top Kenya Power and Lighting Company managers spent yet another night in police cells after they were charged with economic crimes and loss of public funds. Kenya Power managing director Ken Tarus, who was charged alongside his predecessor, Ben Chumo, and other senior managers, all denied charges of wrongdoing. They are remanded Gigiri Police Station pending bail submissions today. Massive procurement irregularities at Kenya Power were first exposed by the Star on May 25. Energy CS Charles Keter named Engineer Jared Otieno as interim team leader of the listed company for three months. Locals flee Kibera to escape eviction Some residents of Kibera are moving back to their villages to avoid being evicted from their homes to pave way for road construction. A vacation notice issued by the state for the construction of a link road between Ngong Road- Langata Road expired yesterday. Injured boy compensated The family of a four-year-old boy has been awarded Sh6 million after his leg was amputated due to negligence by a Makindu hospital. In August 2013, hours after birth, the infant suffered severe burns to his right leg after a light bulb accidentally fell on him in the nursery at Makindu Subcounty Hospital. Where the dead do not rest in peace Rose Akoth has been in the sand harvesting business for 15 years, ever since her fisherman husband died. Left with five children to take care of when she was only 25, she decided to venture into the business, which was initially flooded by men. In her experience, she and her colleagues have unearthed and reburied seven bodies in Kobala village, Karachuonyo constituency, Homa Bay county. Kobala is among the sand mining sites where the dead are not allowed to rest in peace, following the uncontrolled sand mining in various farms in Homa Bay. Homa Bay's need for infrastructure, such as roads and buildings, has increased demand for natural resources, including sand. But farm sand harvesting is very destructive to the land compared to harvesting on riparian areas, Environment director John Maniafu said. Rhinos in danger The shock over the deaths of eight black rhinos at Tsavo East National Park deepened yesterday after an insider told the Star that the survival of the remaining three is  not guaranteed. The Kenya Wildlife Service had cited overcrowding in both the Nairobi and Nakuru parks, saying it has hindered breeding. Editorial The Star editors are of the view that speakers of the two Houses should decide whether a committee of the Senate or the National Assembly should investigate a particular issue. This concerns probes into matters including the sugar scandal and the Solai dam tragedy. Today's weather Nairobi: Mostly sunny, average temperature of 23ºC, wind speed of 13 km/h Mombasa: Partly cloudy, average temperature of 28ºC, wind speed of 27 km/h Kisumu: Mostly sunny, average temperature of 28ºC, wind speed of 13 km/h Click here for the latest political news