Macadamia farmers in Embu have threatened to protest against harsh regulations blocking better prices.
The farmers said several regulations prevent them from exporting and getting better prices from the produce that does well on the world market.
They spoke in Nembure on Saturday during the Nut Traders Association’s meeting.
The farmers said the regulations that macadamia should be harvested and sold in a certain period are hurting them since they grow different varieties that matures at various times.
They said if the rules are implemented, farmers will be completely blocked from selling their macadamia.
 Association chairman Johnson Kihara led the Embu farmers in demanding the change of the regulations by Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri through Parliament.
The farmers want anyone who wants to have a drier to be allowed to do so. The farmers demanded that the nuts be bought at Sh300 per kilo instead of the current Sh140.
They said the world market dictates that the nuts should not be sold for less than the amount.
The farmers accused politicians who have interests in macadamia of coming up with laws that suited them.
Earlier this month, a macadamia farmer in Meru told a court the nut sector is monopolised.
In documents filed in an Embu court, Erick Mbaabu says a ministerial order issued by William Ruto in 2009, prohibiting the export of raw macadamia, was tainted with illegality and demonstrated malice to weed out competition in the industry. Ruto was the Minister for Agriculture at the time.
The ban was intended to help develop the Kenyan processing industry but farmers say it has only hurt them. “Kiunjuri has disregarded public interest in enforcing the ban on raw macadamia export and acted to achieve an alleged collateral purpose by irregularly issuing a directive for arrest of local and foreign investors offering better prices,” Mbaabu told the court.
The petition by Mbaabu touches on the grievances of macadamia farmers in Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties.
Mbaabu said his firm, Edenswin Traders Ltd, has international orders for export of mature, processed and machine-dried macadamia and offers better prices to farmers “contrary to dominant bureaucratic cartels”.