Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi has dissolved
the Water and Sewerage Company [WAJWASCO] board and appointed Ahmed Omar to head the organisation, replacing Roble Subow. The governor said the changes made on Friday last
week are meant to enhance services and "are in line with my manifesto". The immediate former MD has been deployed
to the office of the governor. Speaking during the handing over in
Wajir town, Abdi exuded confidence in the new team, which he said is up to the task to deliver quality services. The governor described Ahmed, who previously worked with the Mombasa Water Complex, as an experienced
public servant who "understands his field very well". Chief officer Yussuf Dayib assured staff
and residents that the company will be restructured to meet the water
demands of the growing Wajir town. He said the department has rolled out key water projects, including drilling boreholes in all areas experiencing water problems. The Star has, however, learnt that the MD and his board were sent
packing following mismanagement of funds and poor performance. The company is set to implement World Bank
water and sanitation projects, which include water piping and sewerage system. Currently, Wajir uses bucket latrines due to high table. A letter signed by the Water
Sector Trust Fund  CEO  and addressed to Abdi raises concerns on WAJWASCO's implementation of water and
sanitation projects in the county. The WSTF board of trustees approved financing of six projects in Wajir county worth millions of shillings. The funds are a grant from the European Union being managed by DANIDA. The projects were identified by the county government
through the WAJIWASCO in 2017. Among the concerns raised by WSTF's internal
audit and the Danish embassy include failure to adhere to WSTF contract
guidelines, lack of adherence to procurement 
procedures and regulations, flawed contractual processes for projects and failure
to raise payment certificates before paying the contractors. The letter reads in part: “The company has
not implemented a few projects components as advised by the WSTF  audit report despite the managing director
having agreed to make good the works.” It adds: “The purpose of this letter is to
request that your office takes action on WAJWASCO failure to observe due
processes and procures that have resulted to improper use of EU funds resulting
to suspension of any additional WSTF funding to the count.”