Equity Bank has confirmed Polycarp Igathe's appointment as Group Chief Commercial Officer, terming his equipped to take the lender to the next level. Igathe's appointment was confirmed alongside that of Julius Kayoboke as Group Director of Customer Experience and Product Management. The confirmations followed approval by Central Bank. Igathe resigned in January from his Nairobi Deputy Governor post saying he could not gain the trust of his boss Mike Sonko. He had been serving as Vivo Energy Managing Director before joining Sonko ahead of the August 8, 2017 general election. Igathe has also served as CEO of leading blue chip corporate entities in Kenya and Eastern Africa, namely Coca-Cola SABCO, Africa Online, EABL, Haco Industries, Wines of the World, Tiger Brands International. On taking up the appointment, he said: “I am lucky and thrilled to join an outstanding and exceptional team of professionals at the iconic Equity Group Holdings renowned for delivery of socio-economic prosperity in Africa.” He added that he has been privileged to serve as Chairman of the Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) and Petroleum Institute of East Africa (PIEA); Drector and Trustee of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa) and as Nairobi's second DG. "I am therefore glad to offer my networks and experience, in the Eastern Africa private sector scene, to grow the Equity brand in the corporate segment of the market." Igathe has been celebrated as a Warrior of the Marketing Society of Kenya (MSK), Savant of Marketing by Marketing Africa Magazine and Savant of Policy Advocacy by KAM. He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics & Sociology from the University of Nairobi and is a graduate of Strathmore University’s Advanced Management Program (AMP) with IESE Business School in Spain. Read: Polycarp Igathe heads to Equity Bank as Chief Commercial Officer Kayoboke is immediate former Marketing Director of Heineken in Rwanda. He started working with Heineken in 2001 in several European and African countries. In 2008, while based in Amsterdam, he was responsible for eight markets in the middle and Southern Africa including Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, South Sudan, and Dr Congo. “Equity Bank democratised banking in Kenya and I am honored to contribute in replicating this across the Eastern Africa region as we transform the lives and livelihoods of Africans," he said. "As the bank moves into the digital age, we shall be focusing on spreading the message of inclusivity at the global level.” He has MBA from the University of Birmingham in the UK. Equity CEO James Mwangi said the company was excited to welcome the two. “The two executives hold broad and deep knowledge, skills, experience, networks and relationships of the Eastern Africa private sector scene and business operating environment," he said. "Being insiders in the private sector, they will drive acquisition, growth and retention of the clients in corporate sector and high net worth individuals because they understand distribution logistics and the SME value chain, their needs and aspirations." Click here for the latest political news