Lamu politician Anwar Loitiptip, who lost his Senator seat at the Appeals court, has pointed the finger at "powerful land, political and drug cartels". Loitiptip lost his seat on Thursday, when the Court of Appeal determined that there irregularities in the August 8, 2017 poll. Judges Alnashir Visram, Martha Koome and Wanjiru Karanja also said election laws were defied and ordered a fresh poll in 60 days. Details: [VIDEO] Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip loses seat over irregularities Loitiptip said on Sunday that he will taken the battle to the Supreme Court. He claimed the Court of Appeal's decision had to do with his hard stance on land grabbing and drugs and his support for Lamu's poor. He further said that land grabbers and and tycoons who steal from the poor and sell drugs have sworn to ensure he does not succeed "in the region that has long been enslaved by cartels". “I cannot accept the court ruling under these circumstances. My lawyers are working round the clock and will present a petition soon," he said. Loitiptip further noted that his spirit will not be dampened and that he will continue to defend the vulnerable. “Since I came to office, I have said 'no' to three things - land grabbing, drugs and exploitation of the poor and vulnerable," he said. "Apparently, that has become my undoing since cartels behind all these atrocities have decided to frustrate me. I know and I can prove it's them. Let them not rest easy because I won't be stopping any time soon," he said. In January, the politician sent jitters across the region by threatening to expose mega land grabbers and drug dealers in the county, whom he claimed were working with politicians and government officers. He alleged that the grabbers had repossessed the 350,000 acres of land whose ownership President Uhuru Kenyatta restored to the community in 2015. “I know the exposes I threatened made many of them uncomfortable so they decided to remove me. It doesn’t bother me and given the chance, I will still expose them so that the world knows them," he said. More on this: Anwar to release list of drug lords, land grabbers Click here for the latest political news