Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu has advised DP William Ruto not to trust opposition leader Raila Odinga despite the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The March 9 handshake is aimed at national healing, reconciliation and development through the Building Bridges Initiative. At a church service on Sunday, however, Waititu told the DP not to be blinded by the two leaders' resolve to work together and accused the ODM boss of scheming. He did not give details but said outsiders and newcomers are propagating non-existent cracks in Jubilee. “When Raila tells you to close your eyes, please, instead open them widely,” he told the DP and assured him of support. Waititu said the party is united and focused on the implementing Uhuru's Big Four Action Plan. He noted that Jubilee has had an agenda since 2012 and will never be shaken as its foundation is strong. In March, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed warned Waititu against casting aspersions on Raila’s motives in reaching a truce with the President. He said the Governor appears hell-bent on continuing to ignite attacks against Raila for political mileage "as has been the habit in the political arena for years". The minority whip also said that the first-time county boss believes attacking the opposition chief will win him re-election in 2022. Read: Attacking Raila won’t guarantee you re-election, Junet tells Waititu Waititu attended a service at African Independent Pentecostal Church in Kayole, Nairobi, with Ruto and several legislators. Among them were Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and MPs Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Kanini Kega (Kieni), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Charles Kanyi (Starehe), John Kiarie (Dagoreti South) and George Theuri (Embakasi West). Leaders from Central Kenya dismissed claims that they have been directed not to work with the Deputy President. Kanyi said: “No one has asked me not to associate with the Deputy President. Those spreading propaganda should know that Jubilee's plans for the future remain the same." Kega said: "The last instructions we received from Uhuru were to work closely with Ruto and we should follow them. We have not received any other instructions.” Ichung’wa asked the President and his deputy to focus on delivering the Jubilee promise and ignore those trying to distract them. Gakuya noted that Jubilee leaders welcomed their opposition counterparts to the government so they can serve Kenyans together. At the service, Ruto highlighted the government's development plans, including a modern Gikomba market at Sh3 billion over the next two years. More on this: Government plans Sh3 billion modern Gikomba market to prevent fires Also read: Ruto prays for Big Four, end of corruption on National Thanksgiving Day Click here for the latest political news