Chief Justice David Maraga has faulted the reduction of the Judiciary's budget from Sh17.3 billion to Sh14.5 billion. Speaking at a press conference on Tuesday, the CJ said there are fears that 70 projects will stall. This is because the World Bank funding, under which 29 of the projects fall, expires in December. Maraga said 41 government-funded projects, including the construction of Marsabit, Amagoro, Githogo and Hamisi courts, were underway. The reality of the reduction is made worse by the imminent expiry of the Sh11.5 billion World Bank Judicial Performance Improvement Project Loan facility. Many judicial projects have been funded through the plan. Read: Judiciary seeks additional funds to construct more courts Read: MPs cut allocation for courts in new budget The World Bank project took effect in April 2013 and is scheduled to end in December, unless an agreement is reached to extend it. "The repercussions for this are unimaginable, with a flood of incomplete projects across the country," the CJ said. The Judiciary had requested Sh31.02 billion from the government to support its operations for this financial year. The budgetary requirement was broken down to a recurrent Sh19.8 billion, Sh11.4 billion for the development budget and Sh891 million as the JSC resource requirement. The national government policy statement capped the budget at Sh17.3 billion, with Sh13.3 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh4 billion for development. Out of the cash for development, the government was to give Sh1.05 billion and the World Bank a loan facility of Sh2.5 billion. The JSC was to receive Sh479.6 million When the budget appropriation was passed, the Judiciary's budget was further cut to Sh14.5 billion, with development getting Sh50 million compared to the Sh2.6 billion in the 2014-15 budget. "The Sh50 million is expected to cover new and ongoing projects, repairs and ICT infrastructure," Maraga said. "We are at a loss on how to use that Sh50 million as 70 projects, including those funded by the World Bank, will stall." Click here for the latest political news