Kenyan economists stated from the onset that the standard gauge railway was not economically viable. It has dragged Kenyan taxpayers into a humongous public debt that can only be paid after so many years, with very dismal return on investment. Many Kenyans consider this spilt milk. The good news is, there is a legal doctrine that allows a government to repudiate a contract in the public interest. Basically, it tries to achieve a balance between the binding nature of contracts and the need for governments to be able to govern and serve the public interest. To this end, if a government is hampered or curtailed in governing – for example, if it’s contractually bound and pushed to the wall against the public interest, as is the case here — then the law may recognise that the government can break the contract without the usual consequences of having to pay damages. This is known as the doctrine of Executive Necessity. Yes, the government can walk away from a contract with impunity without contractual consequences. This doctrine originated in the decision of Justice Rowlatt in Amphitrite v The King [ 1921 ] 3 KB 500 (the Amphitrite) where a contractual undertaking was broken by the government. In that decision, it was accepted that a government “cannot by contract hamper its freedom of action in matters which concern the welfare of the state”. Accordingly, it has been recognised, following this case, that governments may be allowed to break a contract where it inhibits the business of governing. It is no longer a secret that the SGR is a white elephant with adverse financial implications. First, it is very telling for a public infrastructure project of this magnitude to have no trace of an objective feasibility study. There have been blatant contraventions of both procedural and substantive laws that suffice to consider this project fatally defective and by far falling short of the threshold of serving the public good under this doctrine. Also, we are now faced with complications of a government wanting to compete with its own people to impress a foreign master — the Chinese. Cargo owners are being forced to use the SGR to transport their goods inland against their wishes and at extra costs, even when the destination of their cargo is Mombasa. The government, through unilateral executive orders, wants to translocate the entire economy upon which the port city of Mombasa is based to inland dry ports so they can make revenues through forced SGR cargo transportation to pay the Chinese lenders. As a consequence, the government is contravening the economic and property rights of its citizens, contrary to the very Constitution it has sworn to protect. A recent exposé revealed that Kenyan workers are ordered by foreign bosses to lie on their stomachs as punishment at their workplace. This is unimaginable in this day and age. There have been shocking revelations of disparity in payment between Kenyan SGR workers and their Chinese counterparts for the same work done. Kenyan workers are being subjected to poor working conditions and unwritten racist rules. Furthermore, the workers are now being forced to learn Chinese in order to be competitive in their own country. Doesn’t this fly at the face of Article 1 ( 1 ) of the Constitution on sovereignty? The government should stop justifying this project, which is evidently a rip-off, for fear of breach of original obligations. It should repudiate the contract under the doctrine of Executive Necessity to relieve Kenya of this unreasonable public debt. This doctrine does not give the government carte blanche to break contracts. But in circumstances such as this, where it is demonstrable that the contract does not make economic sense to the country and does not serve public interest, then this doctrine can be invoked. It is by far better to risk the possibility of the government having an adverse credit rating following repudiation of the SGR project than to have a humongous public debt that will take generations to repay.  Advocate of the High
Court