A man has sued Beta Healthcare and Kenya Bureaus of Standards over a ‘fake’ Zoom Condom that he said burst during intercourse. He says in his petition that when he bought the condom he believed it would please his partner and fully protect him but it broke. As a result he ended up infecting his wife, who has since left him, with a sexually transmitted infection. “That I was fully aware of the dangers of having unprotected sex and decided to use my favourite brand of condoms, being the Zoom scented chocolate-flavoured studded condoms, which I believed would please the woman and protect me fully,” he said. In his sworn affidavit, he says he contracted an sexually transmitted infection. “..that whilst I was having sexual intercourse with the woman, the said condom broke, a fact which I only realised after the act. That at the time, I brushed the incident [aside] as a non-issue and three days later I still had sexual intercourse with my wife,” he said. Read: Using condoms: Dos and Don'ts The man also fears he has been exposed to the HIV virus. According to him, Beta, Kebs and KRA allowed a consignment of Zoom condoms that are of questionable quality to be sold to unsuspecting Kenyans. In the affidavit, he says on October 13, 2014, he began to notice some rashes on his private parts and pain while urinating. He said he went to a traditional healer and sought medical treatment, which eased his pain. However, the pain worsened days later and he sought treatment at a clinic, where he was diagnosed and treated for an STI. “I have since gone back to the clinic and obtained a medical report.” On October 17 his wife called and informed him that she had been hospitalised with an STI. “My wife blamed me for being unfaithful and our relationship was strained afterwards,” the affidavit reads. The man says he has suffered major losses as a result of the condom burst, including losing his wife. “My wife then became estranged and later left me for another man. After my wife left me, I became distressed, burdened with guilt and even had a mental breakdown, which led me to be an alcoholic and I lost my job.” The man claims that he was later told by his friends that some of them had experienced condom breaks from the same brand of condoms. Click here for the latest political news