Dramatic twist in Ruaraka land saga The country has been waiting with bated breath for the Director of Public Prosecution to finally charge individuals involved in the Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land saga. Today, the Star brings you details of a twist that may see top government officials taken to court over the scandal that touches on key figures in President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration. The DPP directed police to withdraw charges Meshack Onyango Dehay, the man who made stunning allegations of impropriety in the transaction. It has now emerged that Dehay is lined up to be the DPP's star witness who may just end the careers of high flying government officials. Parliament, Judiciary turf wars The never-ending turf wars between the Judiciary and Parliament are back with National Assembly Speaker Justice Muturi expressing disgust at the way courts have been trashing laws. The Speaker said slammed courts for repealing laws which he says have been passed after thorough research and public input as well as expert consideration by the Attorney General. Patients' agony in Nairobi It has been two years – and still counting – since public hospitals in the city were last supplied with medicines and other medical supplies. This is after the supplier – the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority - withdrew services over a Sh285 million debt. And as the Star reports, poor patients have suffered most. A cop's hustle What do you do during your free time? Probably drinking or surfing. Not Mercy Mugo. The 26-year-old AP constable spends her free time knitting modern shaggy mats for sale. And the returns are pretty. She makes twice her monthly salary from the mats. Read her story. Kibera residents and the road that divides Poor families squatting on road reserves are bearing the brunt of ambitious state plans for infrastructure. Affected areas include Kibera, Mathare and Mukuru kwa Njenga slums. Just this year, the government allocated over Sh120 billion to expand roads, reduce congestion and increase coverage of rural access roads. In his State of the Union address on May 2, President Uhuru Kenyatta said without radical renewal and improvement of the country’s infrastructure, Kenya cannot hope to attract the investment needed to create jobs and prosperity to beat poverty. Editorial The Star editors are arguing that the Education ministry should not retreat on having non-local head teachers, and Knut should drop its strike threat. Today's weather Nairobi: Mostly cloudy. High temperatures of 22ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h Mombasa: Morning showers. High temperatures of 28ºC. Winds SSW at 25 to 40 km/h. Chance of rain 50%. Kisumu: Partly cloudy. Low temperatures of 18ºC. NW winds shifting to NE at 15 to 25 km/h. Click here for the latest political news