On
March 21, 44 African countries signed the agreement to establish the Africa
Continental Free Trade Area, an ambitious plan seeking to bring all African
Union member states under a single market. With
over one billion people and an estimated combined gross domestic product of
$3.4 trillion, AfCFTA could easily transform Africa into a formidable commerce
centre, as envisaged in the Africa Agenda 2063. Enviable
as it is, actualisation of AfCFTA will heavily depend on the quality and
quantity of infrastructure in the continent; something that has impeded
Africa’s integration. Inadequate infrastructure in form of poor road networks,
undeveloped ports, limited rail transport, high energy cost and poor
communication systems have held back intra-Africa trade at a paltry 10 per cent
compared to over 60 per cent in Western Europe. Moving a 20-foot container from
the port of Mombasa to Kigali,Rwanda, by land costs twice the amount needed to
move the same from China to Mombasa by sea. Therefore,
for AfCFTA to enhance trade among African countries beyond the 50 per cent mark
by 2022, targeted investments in supportive infrastructure must be prioritised. But, as
history has revealed, infrastructure investments are often unaffordable for
many developing countries. The World Economic Forum, for example, estimated
that for Africa to close its infrastructure deficit, the region needed to
invest $93 billion annually between 2013 and 2020. Such amounts are, however,
hard to come by in a continent where many states are afflicted by as terrorism,
economic stagnation and political fragility. The
option for many African economies has been to source for development funds from
international markets, a function that China has responded to with considerable
success so far. China
has emerged as a dependable partner in this for Africa, providing environmentally
sustainable and safe land transportation systems in many countries. This has
subsequently facilitated access to markets and financial sector modernisation
for economic and social development. In
Kenya for instance, Beijing has deployed its revolutionary rail technology to
construct the 472km standard gauge railway between Mombasa and Nairobi at a
cost of $3.2 billion. Kenya’s SGR is the biggest infrastructure project the
country has undertaken in its post-independence period, and is part of an
elaborate vision to integrate Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan. China’s
footprints are not only found in the railway sector. Beijing is equally
implementing a number of roads, energy and telecommunications projects in
Africa through highly dexterous policy innovations on financing and
implementation. But
China’s inexhaustible economic vault and apparent generosity in funding
development projects in Africa has not gone unnoticed. Some commentators see
China as using loans and grants to entice Africa into its sphere of influence. Giving
the example of Sri Lanka, two Harvard University graduates recently accused
China of engaging in Debtbook Diplomacy,
by extending expensive loans to African states. Fundamental
in the polemics is how African countries can balance the need for Chinese
finances without indebting themselves. Part of the deal lies in proper
rationalisation of various projects in terms of their utility in livelihoods
transformation without pushing national debt levels above the roof. Africa
can, for instance, take advantage of the ecosystem created under the China-led Belt
and Road Initiative. By aligning their national development plans to the BRI
framework, African countries can leverage on available external support to
modernise their infrastructure. Since
BRI also brings on board diverse sets of lenders — sourced regionally and
globally — Africa has a chance to work with the most responsive, and cost-effective
funding sources to improve connectivity, manufacturing and ultimately life
conditions for the citizens. Finally,
Africa does have to be boxed in a binary choice of ‘either China or.’ I believe
the continent can leverage various comparative advantages of financing institutions
to turn around its socioeconomic fortunes without putting the well-being of
future generations at risk.  The Writer is a scholar on China-Africa relations @Cvainceworld