Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday said the ministry will establish the cause of arson and riots in schools once it gets all reports from county education coordinators. She spoke during the launch of the National Disaster Management Policy for the education sector. “There are many causes of unrest. Examination is just one element. Our quality assurance officers, county and subcounty directors are compiling reports to get to the bottom of that,” Amina said. She said the government will develop early warning and prevention signs in line with the National Disaster Management Policy to curb disasters. The CS said recommendations in the reports will give the way forward in combating rampant unrest. The ministry has received reports from 41 counties. The remaining six have been told to submit by the end of the month. “We hope those yet to submit their reports will do so before the end of the term so the ministry takes action during the August holiday,” Amina said. More than 70 secondary schools were rocked by unrest between June 1 and July 20, with at least 50 of them reporting fires. The problem spread across the country. Siaya had six cases, Murang’a four, Nairobi five, Nyeri four and Kakamega four. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion said 58 of the schools had new principals following the delocalisation policy implemented by the Teachers Service Commission. “The unrest in schools is a rejection of the numerous, confusing policies from the Ministry of Education. The Teacher delocalisation policy appears to be the main cause of the strikes. The programme should be scrapped with immediate effect,” he said. Amina said lack of early warning systems and disaster preparedness such as fire drills, first aid kits and basic training on safety had exposed schools to greater damage. During the long rains, from March to May, 739 schools failed to reopen because of floods. Some 67,481 students could not access their schools. Another 329 schools were used as IDP centres, while learning materials for 6,612 students and pupils were destroyed.