The vetting committee will not approve former Kenya Power boss Ben Chumo 's nomination as SRC chair, National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale has said. Duale said that Chumo, having been taken to court over claims of fraud at the company, has soiled his name, thereby failed the test where chapter six of the Constitution is concerned. This chapter covers leadership and integrity. Duale, who is Garissa Town MP, said Parliament will ask President Uhuru Kenyatta, the appointing authority, to forward another name. "Whether Chumo appears before the committee or not, within the reading of the Constitution and the Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approval) Act, he has failed and cannot be approved by the committee or the house," he said at Parliament buildings on Monday. Duale's remarks came after uproar on social media on why MPs vetted Chumo yet he remains a suspect in the Kenya Power fraud. Some said the President should have dropped his nomination as soon as he was implicated. On Twitter, lawyer Donald Kipkorir wrote: "That Ben Chumo, facing a multi-million (billion) corruption case, is being
interviewed by Parliament to be the Chair of the salaries review commission is taking absurdity to a new level. "Our MPs would have set a new
moral bar (if they still had a bar) by openly dismissing him." Chumo told the committee that he is a man of integrity and accused unknown people of plotting to deny him the opportunity to serve at the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. "I plead with this committee not to get to a situation where someone throws some spanner in the works to deny me this opportunity. "I am innocent until proven guilty and urge this house to allow the spirit of constitutionalism. Someone might be looking at this opportunity you are about to give but you should not allow it because I really deserve it [sic]," he said. Chumo and several former and current Kenya Power managers are facing charges relating to the supply of faulty transformers. The DPP is also looking into allegations that CEO Ken Tarus and eight other managers irregularly awarded labour and transport contracts to 33 companies which were not qualified. Details: I’m a man of integrity, Chumo tells SRC vetting team amid graft charges Also Read: MPs slam ex-KPLC boss Ben Chumo for defending high cost of power Click here for the latest political news