We, the people of Kenya are suffering from anomie; described as alienation or social instability caused by erosion of social standards and values. We celebrate thieves. Parliament vets and gives a clean bill to people facing charges to assume leadership positions in public office, which requires individuals with integrity. We even support and elect criminals from our communities just because they are yet to be convicted by a court of law. I’m therefore not surprised that some very well educated leaders and elders from Rift Valley are opposing the Mau Forest eviction. They claim the eviction is being conducted in an inhumane way and that the evictees come from their communities. Supporting encroachers and whipping up public emotions to sanitise the wrongs of past governments — which carved out tea zones, ranches and allowed uncontrolled human settlement on trust land and water towers — is wrong. In the preamble to the Constitution we, the people of Kenya acknowledge that we are respectful of the environment, which is our heritage, and determine to sustain it for the benefit of future generations. There is no right way of doing a wrong thing, and correcting a wrong is painful for individuals, communities and the nation. The government is adopting private sector approaches focussed on citizens, which are yielding better results and greater legitimacy. After the March 9 handshake, the government is in a better position to deal decisively with sustainable afforestation and promote the theme of World Forestry Day ‘Forests and Sustainable Cities’. The theme was intended to increase the awareness of communities at local, national and international levels to understand that forests protect and sustain us. The role of government is to push for the implementation of policies and strategies intended to increase forest cover to 10 per cent by 2020 to 15 per cent by 2022. There is urgent need to sensitise Kenyans. Civil society and organisations such as the Greenbelt Movement need to be involved more actively in conservation and protection of natural resources and drive tree planting initiatives. The government should simultaneously complete eviction of encroachers on all water towers, as well as afforestation and reafforestation initiatives for cities and urban areas. Kenya continues to face the consequences of deforestation and forest degradation since Independence. As of February 2 last year, the country’s forest cover stood at 1.7 per cent, way below the global recommended minimum of 10 per cent. Urban areas face pressure to provide housing. Factors contributing to deforestation include high population growth; accelerated population movement from rural to urban areas; unsustainable timber harvesting, charcoal production, grazing in forest land and escalating demand for food, housing, fibre and fuel. Deforestation is aggravated by greed and corruption; past governance and institutional failures in the forest sector and weak citizen participation in forest management. Consequences of deforestation include degraded ecosystems and water shortage approaching crisis levels in large cities and urban areas. Forests improve our lives. Trees and shrubs improve air quality, regulate water, protect watersheds and prevent flooding as they store water in their branches and soil. Forests, trees, shrubs and green space in cities and urban areas add value to homes and help in cooling neighbourhoods.