McKinsey consultancy reported last year that Chinese firms have hired more than 127,000 Kenyans, representing 90 per cent of their workforce. But it has emerged through litigation that less than half of the Kenyan employees have contracts. Nicodemus Ouma, a lawyer with Odhiambo Oronga & Company Advocates, has handled labour cases and says lack of contracts is a strategy to avoid employment contracts. It saves Chinese employers vast sums. “Most companies try to keep workers on casual pay to avoid employment contracts. However, in law, whether casual or not, an employer must have Workmen's Injury Benefit Act (Wiba) insurance for workers injured while in employment,” Ouma told the Star. The Star has traced several court cases since 2010 when Chinese firms became conspicuous in Kenya, employing hundreds who were unfairly and unlawfully fired. Of course, many were treated fairly. Some tales, however, expose difficult working conditions. A large number of big state-owned Chinese firms are bleeding money owing to court-ordered compensation. In some cases, individuals have sued for denial of medical cover after suffering serious injuries on the job. Anthony Wangai Kiragu was hired by China Road and Bridge Corporation in 2015 as a dump truck driver. He was based in Miritini, Mombasa, where the firm was building the Sh320 billion standard gauge railway. Kiragu worked for more than a year until one day the site manager, only identified as Yei, accused him of damaging parts of the vehicle. Without being given a chance to explain, Kiragu was fired. He sued. CRBC did not defend the suit despite receiving summons to appear. High Court judge James Rika ordered that the driver be compensated with Sh805,000 for unfair dismissal. Charo Hamisi Hedison, another driver, was hired by the same firm in February 2015 and fired 10 months later without notice. In June last year, Rika awarded him Sh314,088, after CRBC once again failed to defend the suit. On October 3, 2012, dump truck driver Vitalis Juma Odera was delivering murrum to Nyamasaria in Kisumu for Sinohydro, which was building a road. The truck’s automatic offload function jammed. While getting out to manually offload the murrum, the door broke, landing on his right hand and breaking two fingers. Following treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu, Odera sued Sinohydro for negligence. But the firm said he was not an employee and there was no evidence proving otherwise. Four years later, senior resident magistrate Sajida Adika ruled that Odera had failed to prove he was a Sinohydro employee. Odera appealed and in February last year High Court judge David Majanja reversed the decision. He faulted the magistrate for ignoring an employee attendance sheet that listed the driver’s name, identification details and NSSF and NHIF numbers. The magistrate had overlooked the document because it was in Chinese, but Justice Majanja ruled that there was a clearly written line in English, “Sinohydro Employee Attendance Record”, which he said was proof of Odera’s employment. Justice Majanja awarded Odera Sh90,000. One year earlier, another former Sinohydro employee, Daniel Kamuda from Homa Bay was awarded Sh600,000 after the middle and ring fingers of his right hand were amputated following a work accident. Kamuda was repairing a batching machine, used in cement-mixing, when his fingers were injured. After suing, he was awarded Sh1 million but Sinohydro appealed. Justice Majanja found that Kamuda bore partial liability for the accident and deducted Sh400,000 from the initial award. On May 20, 2016, a woman employed by China Civil Engineering Corporation as a store keeper was in the firm's pantry when her supervisor Zai Diangfeng walked in. Zai accused her of stealing and violently kicked her out of the room, punching her breasts. The woman reported to police and Zai was arrested and charged with assault. He admitted the charges. He returned to China. While she was recuperating, a boss identified as Ji Hemming, called her and told her not to report back to work. She sued for wrongful termination. The court awarded her Sh94,000 being one month's salary in lieu of notice (Sh16,872) and five months' salary as compensation. She appealed, arguing that Justice Onesmus Makau should also have awarded her Sh4 million for sexual harassment. She said Zai had sexually harassed her several times, which she reported to Ji. Ji allegedly told her to accept Zai's offer of Sh3,000 and a promise to talk to the management about a salary increase. The firm's human resource manager, Penina Kungu, told Justice Makau that the woman never reported sexual harassment, an omission the judge relied on when ruling against her. In May the Court of Appeal agreed with Justice Makau.