The cruel hand of death has plucked yet another editor from the industry this week. Wanjiru Kinoti, 46, who passed away on Tuesday evening after a long illness, had worked at both the Standard and the Star.
I got to know Wanjiru through the Star’s op-ed pages. Whenever I submitted my contributions, Director of Convergence William Pike would at times copy her on his feedback, either asking me to tie up loose ends or asking her to schedule it for subsequent publication.Like any decent journalist, she took it upon herself to understand contributors beyond their work.That is how we befriended each other on Facebook. With time, I learnt that we shared a common history, having spent some time in the Greater Washington, DC  area, the heart of American political and diplomatic power.Thus, it would be easier for her to contextualise my contributions, particularly those seeking to tell the ever-changing story of Kenyan-American relations. She was genuinely sympathetic towards international perspectives, believing that a decent daily was nothing without them.The one other time I remember us having an extended conversation was when I posted a brief on Facebook regarding an event at St Paul’s University (Limuru), bringing together The Circle of Concerned African Women Theologians. Inaugurated in 1989 in Accra, Ghana, by 70 African women, it is concerned about dearth of literature by African women.  Having established a centre for women, religion and culture in Accra, it now also has a women’s resource centre at St Paul’s University. Prof Esther Mombo and Dr Emily Onyango — both from the institution — still belong to the circle. The moment she saw pictures of the two women, Wanjiru said the event reminded her of her mother, whom she said had belonged to the network.
With an acute memory, she noted the work that remains to be done by the Body of Christ in Kenya and Africa to affirm the place of God’s daughters in His ongoing transformative mission. Wanjiru is survived by a daughter, 19.Now, she sits at the table of the God she loved. The family has planned a prayer service at the Nairobi Baptist Church on Monday and a memorial funeral on Tuesday ahead of her burial in Meru on Wednesday.The writer is Nyandarua county’s Director of Communication and Public Participation Also see: Veteran print journalist Matt Gathigira bows out Click here for the latest political news