More suspects linked to the loss of millions at the Kenya Power and Lighting Company yesterday were charged with fraudulent acquisition of public property. The 30 suspects bring to 53 the number of people and companies on trial. They include suspended MD Ken Tarus and his predecessor Ben Chumo. Yesterday, only 10 directors of eight companies believed to be contractors appeared. They denied charges before Anti-Corruption Court magistrate Lawrence Mugambi. The magistrate directed 12 of the co-accused to appear in court and plead to the charges. The 12 did not appear yesterday. The companies implicated are Millous Enterprises Company, Kazimix Enterprises, Petsus Investments, Jake Building and Constructions Ltd, Wachema Investments, Touchline Electricals, Mint Ventures and Appenco Holding Ltd. The prosecution says Catherine Mwangi, a director of Millous Enterprises Ltd, fraudulently obtained Sh1,413,492 of public funds from KPLC, having been irregularly prequalified for labour and transport services. Charles Muthui and Samuel Gichini, directors of Appenco Enterprises, were accused of fraudulently receiving Sh231,107 from Kenya Power, while Francis Thuku and Petty Wanjiku from Mint Ventures received Sh1,702,208. The court heard that Hillary Njaramba of Touchline Investments received Sh8,333,933 and Alice Wanjiku of Wachema Limited got Sh623,960. Catherine Wambui of Kazimix Ltd is accused of fraudulently receiving Sh1,413,492. Others charged include Susan Wanjiru of Petsus, who allegedly received Sh112,483, and Jane Kingori of Jake Building and Constructions who received Sh623,960. Read:KPLC board suspends 19 managers over graft, appoints Jared Otieno as acting CEO They had asked the court to release them on reasonable bond terms, saying they are willing to abide by all conditions set by the court. They said they presented themselves to police as directed and they are not a flight risk. In response, the prosecution said it was not opposing bail, but asked the court to adopt the bond terms that were issued by Anti-Corruption chief magistrate to the KPLC directors. They also applied for arrest warrants against 12 more co-directors of the companies that had been charged in court. The court heard that efforts by police to arrest them have been unsuccessful since most of their phones are switched off, despite knowing the matter was coming up in court yesterday. In his ruling, Mugambi directed Njaramba and his company, who received the highest amount, to deposit a Sh1 million bond or Sh800,000 bail. All the other accused persons were ordered to pay a Sh1 million bond or Sh400,000 bail. The magistrate declined to allow the accused to be remanded at Gigiri police station so they can process their bail. The case will be mentioned on August 8. Also Read:KPLC managers spend the night in police cells Click here for the latest political news