Nine people were killed yesterday in an accident on the Mombasa-Nairobi highway near Emali, Makueni county. A bus collided with an oncoming truck and the two vehicles burst into flames. Both drivers died. Twenty others were injured. Kilungu police boss Paul Odende blamed the accident on speeding. The Buscar company bus was travelling from Nairobi. It had 39 passengers on board. Odende said preliminary investigations showed the bus driver was overtaking at high speed when it collided with the lorry. Makueni county commissioner Mohamed Maalim cautioned drivers against flouting road safety regulations. The truck driver was a former councillor in the defunct Makueni County Council. Musyoki Nganga served as the councillor for Mtito Andei ward — now Ivingoni-Nzambani ward. He joined the transport business after quitting politics. Survivors said getting out of the bus was a nightmare. They were rushed to Kilome and Shalom hospitals in Emali. The deceased were taken to Makindu Subcounty Hospital mortuary. Muturi Wachira, a Malindi-based businessman, said he was asleep when the accident occurred. “I was awoken by emergency brakes. I saw a huge fire at the driver’s seat. Some passengers were jumping out of the bus through the windows,” he said at Kilome Nursing Home. “I also jumped out and ran to the other side of the road. Unfortunately, some passengers did not make it.” Wachira suffered slight leg and head injuries. Richard Muinde, a Mombasa businessman was asleep and was awakened by a loud bang. Muinde said he had prayed three times and talked to his wife and son before he slept. “I soon found myself in the bus aisle. Everyone was shouting ‘fire, fire’. I was lucky to jump out of the window,” he said. Martin Macharia, a pupil at Bonfire School, was in the company of his teacher and three other children. He said he found himself at the door of the bus and got out. “I was asleep when I heard other passengers shout ‘fire fire’, as others jumped out through the window,” Macharia said. Geoffrey Gathii, another pupil, was thrown out of the window by other passengers. Cynthia Kabesa, a clinical officer at Kilome Nursing Home, told reporters the teacher and the other two pupils did not make it. Macharia and Githii had yet to be informed about their demise. Kabesa said of the 18 patients hospitalised, two were in critical condition and three had sustained fractures. “One of the two in critical condition had suffered 60 per cent burns and the other had internal chest injuries,” she said. Witness Stephen Musyoki said he found the vehicles on fires but he was helpless. He said the fire was put out by Makueni county firefighters. He urged the county to station one of its fire engines near the highway, not the county headquarters.