Kenya aspires to be a newly industrialising, middle-income country, providing a high quality life to all its citizens by 2030. This aspiration is commonly referred to as Vision 2030. Vision 2030, the Constitution and other policy documents articulate Kenya’s ambition of providing citizens with the highest possible standards of health services, including sexual and reproductive health. This can only be achieved if strategic planning is done and sound investment decisions made. Besides being one of the paths towards realising high standards of health, family planning gives a high return on investment, up to five times the investment, as shown by the ImpactNow policy model. When the National Council for Population and development and the Health Policy Project applied the ImpactNow policy model in 2015 for Kenya, every Sh85 spent on family planning was projected to accrue savings of Sh381 in direct healthcare costs by 2020. Domestic resources invested in family planning also accrue savings in other areas too — the cost of providing water, sanitation and education, among other services. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the 1968 International Conference on Human Rights, where family planning was, for the first time, globally affirmed to be a human right. The conference’s document, known as the Teheran Proclamation, states that parents have a basic human right to determine freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children. Family planning accelerates development by contributing to economic growth at the household, community, and national levels. Women who have the benefit of choosing when to have children, how many to have and how much time between each child, are likely to do better in life. This way, family planning enables girls and women to go to school, make better and higher incomes and participate in shared activities in their communities. County governments are key in enabling Kenyans to access the right to plan their families. They are responsible for planning and executing family planning programmes. They also bear the responsibility of investing in the necessary enablers to provide the services. It is therefore vital that county governments think strategically about family planning programmes. Many counties are currently developing multi-year actionable roadmaps called family planning costed implementation plans to help them achieve family planning goals. The plans address and budget for demand creation; service delivery and access; contraceptive security; policy and enabling environment; financing; and stewardship, management, and accountability. Developing the plans enables county governments to think through their family planning programme. Also, to prioritise family planning interventions, detail key activities and outline a roadmap for implementation, forecast costs and make strategic allocation decisions, estimate the impacts of interventions, mobilise resources to meet gaps and unify stakeholders around one focused family planning strategy, among others. The plans are also effective policy documents, providing counties with the basis for making investments through the budget-making process. When achieved, these family planning goals will save lives and improve the health and well-being of women, families and communities, and help Kenya get closer to achieving Vision 2030 goals. Through public participation, citizens can also use the plans to hold their elected leaders to account if sufficient investments are not made. At the Family Planning Summits of 2012 and 2017, Kenya joined other stakeholders in committing to address the policy, financing, delivery and sociocultural barriers to women accessing contraceptive information, services and supplies. In 2017, the government committed to enable more women to access quality family planning services; every county will have a family planning costed implementation plan by 2020. A number of counties, including Nandi, Nakuru and Kilifi, have launched and are implementing their family planning costed implementation plans. By doing so, they are doing their bit in helping the nation realise her development aspirations. Kenya country director at Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevoelkerung (DSW), a global development organisation. evelyn.samba@dswkenya.org    