Deputy President William Ruto should ask his troops to back down over alleged Jubilee split, former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale has said. Rift Valley elders had dared President Uhuru Kenyatta to state whether he still supports Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Read: No longer at ease: Rifts widen in Jubilee camp as Ruto eyes polls Speaking during an interview on Citizen on Thursday, Khalwale said Ruto should call Rift valley MPs and its elders to order. "On a matter like this, Ruto should prevail upon his elders however difficult it is. Let them leave it to Ruto to sort it out with Uhuru... because he has access to Uhuru," he said. "Ruto should be able to face Uhuru and tell him that you know where we are, you should throw in a good statement so people are not confused by the rumours and narrative that there is a split in Jubilee." But Khalwale noted that if the President is dragged into the politics of 2022, he will risk losing out on the execution of Big 4 agenda before the end of his legacy. "It will be a foolish thing for Uhuru to declare that he will support Ruto. As Ruto is sitting pretty, the President should encourage a situation where we leave things as they are," he said. "If we don't leave it there, the loser is going to be the President and the winner the deputy. The President will lose on big four agenda and will not have a legacy to live on." There have been outspoken differences of opinion in Jubilee as Uhuru's succession as Party Leader is considered to be one of the causes of the disquiet. Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the bureaucrats out to block Ruto’s bid to become President are in Uhuru’s office. He said cracks have been triggered by “individuals serving within government at the Office of the President”. Read: Ruto’s haters are in Kenyatta’s office, says Senator Murkomen But Khalwale asked Murkomen who is the Elgeyo Marakwet Senator not to panic ahead of the 2022 race. "The fact that DP Ruto is being ‘fought’ is a confirmation that he is the front-runner. Don't forget that while Uhuru is busy, the DP is virtually all over the country," he said. "...and during the visits, he sits with MPs and has already created the rapport so that, when the big four collapses, he will ride on that in 2022 if he does not have a competitive candidate." Noting that the Rift Valley MPs should use ‘tactics’ rather than ‘cause friction’, Khalwale said the split is bound to become even louder. "The split will become louder because the political space is being occupied by Jubilee alone... when we mismanaged Nasa and my humble understanding is that it has collapsed irredeemably, we have left the space to Jubilee," he said. "It is what happens in Jubilee that will dictate the future of Kenya." On June 30, Uhuru moved to stamp his authority and quell indiscipline in his party that has recently been steeped in wrangles. While signing the Appropriations Bill, Uhuru is said to have asked the party’s parliamentary leadership to seek unity in the pronouncements of its MPs. The President’s concern was echoed by Jubilee Vice Chairman David Murathe when he told the Star: “You cannot be a leader in Parliament and not support the position of the Party Leader. The President is ready to discipline any member of the party who goes against its manifesto and policies." More on this: Uhuru summons MPs to mend rift in Jubilee Also read: No crisis to warrant Jubilee PG meeting, says Tuju