Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip has lost his seat after the Appeal court in Mombasa nullified his election. A three-judge bench yesterday said the election was marred with irregularities, which the IEBC failed to resolve before declaring the winner. Judges Alvishram Nassir, Martha Koome and Wanjiru Karanja ruled that the electoral agency was in breach of the election laws. The petition was filed by Hassan Albeity, who came second in the election with a vote difference of 58. Albeity had asked the court to declare that Loitiptip was not validly elected and to order a fresh election. He asked the court to order a scrutiny and recount of votes in all polling stations in Lamu. In February Mombasa judge Asenath Ongeri validated Loitiptip’s election, saying it was fair and conducted in accordance with the law. But in the ruling read by Karanja yesterday, the three judges said the High Court erred in validating Loitiptip’s election, despite the irregularities. Karanja said the High Court erred in not allowing an application by the petitioner for scrutiny of votes in nine polling stations. The Court of Appeal judges said there was enough evidence to warrant a scrutiny in the polling stations. Karanja said the three-judge bench discovered an irregularity in some of the poling stations, which the IEBC and its official ought to have clarified before declaring the winner. She said voters at Kiangwe polling station exceeded the number of registered voters, a fact that the electoral commission ignored. Karanja said it was the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission’s duty to explain the difference in numbers. The judges directed that IEBC to conduct a fresh election. In November last year, the IEBC told a court in Malindi there were arithmetic errors in the August 8 Lamu Senator election results. Returning officer Mohamed Adan told the court he used an Excel sheet which led to minor errors in the individual candidates’ results. The official told Ongeri he was “hopeful” the results will match if the ballot boxes are reopened for scrutiny. During cross-examination by Albeity’s lawyer Abubakar Yusuf, the officer said there were errors in the total number of valid votes cast.