Narok senator Ledama ole Kina has told invaders in Mau Forest to return to where they came from. He said on Thursday squatters disregarded the rule of law since they had been asked to leave the forest many years back. “You were born somewhere, you did not fall from the sky. If you are a squatter where did you come from?” Asked the senator. Speaking on KTN, he said he will ensure the forest is preserved. “William ole Ntimama [former Cabinet minister] had a dream to clear the forest of settlers. As the senator, I will ensure the dream is fulfilled,” he
said. Kina said he joined a petition in court seeking to evict people from the forest. He said it is in the best interest of the community to conserve the
forest for future generations. Read:Court declines to issue orders stopping Mau evictions Read: Stop inhumane eviction in Mau, MP tells state Read: Sierra Leone settlers flee ahead of fresh Mau Forest evictions The senator lauded the government for doing a good job by removing people from the forest. He told the people claiming to have title deeds to surrender them for verification. Kina said if they are legal the property is safe as long as it is not part of the land that was acquired illegally. Kina said people who had sold land under false pretense should be prosecuted.. The senator said schools built in the forest were not gazetted. He said cash was wasted, since the schools will be demolished for conservation of the forest. Kina said big shots are hiding behind the poor to fight the evictions. “They don't want people evicted so they can continue working in
their illegal tea plantations and logging in the
forest. They know that once the poor people are evicted they are next,” he said. He accused former councilors in Narok of being complacent. Kina wants the government to carry out investigations into the original size
of the group ranches in 1976 before they were extended. The senator told leaders to stop politicising the Mau evictions. On Wednesday, Narok county commissioner George Natembeya said the second phase of eviction is about to begin. He said prominent personalities are among the 40,000 people who will be evicted. Click here for the latest political news       