Kitui speaker George Ndotto has said claims of corruption and underhand dealings at the assembly are unfounded and politically motivated lies. He said the allegations are outrageous and are being perpetuated by people suffering from election hangovers. “These are people who have not accepted that the elections are long gone and I was elected speaker. They are still in election mood, not knowing it is time to build bridges and serve,” Ndotto said. He spoke as assembly minority leader John Kisangau claimed it was irregular for the previous county assembly to have opened a fixed account for MCAs’ car and mortgage loans fund. Kasangau, who spoke on the phone yesterday, said he “smelled a rat” over the variation of the pricing on the newly constructed Kitui assembly chamber. Its original cost was Sh247.8 million, which was revised to Sh352.1 million. He said he will invite auditors and the EACC to investigate the alleged “messy state of affairs at the Kitui assembly.” But Ndotto on Monday said he had closely monitored the construction of the chamber that started in 2015. He dismissed allegations of inflation of the cost through dubious deals. He said the increase in the cost was caused by factors beyond the control of the assembly. “There were court cases that were instituted to oppose the construction and in 2016-17, there was no budget allocation for the work. The temporary stalling of the project with the contractor on site caused the escalation of the cost,” Ndotto said. He said an additional cost resulted when it was discovered the initial foundation would not have been strong enough to support the new chamber. Ndotto took journalists on a tour of the new chamber. He was accompanied by the assembly MCAs’ car and mortgage loans committee chairperson Johnson Kanandu. Kanandu dismissed reports that MCAs could not access loans, because the fund was in a fixed account. Kanandu said MCAs have so far taken loans amounting to Sh115 million and the Sh145 million fund has Sh29 million remaining, which will be given to compliant applicants.   