Government officials who cannot account for public resources under their watch have their numbered days numbered. It is understood that the chairman of the Public Investment committee in the National Assembly, Abdulswamad Nassir, has formally requested Speaker Justin Muturi to allow detectives from Ethic and Anti- Corruption Commission, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Office of the Director of Public Persecutions to be attending committee's sittings. Those officials who cannot account for taxpayer money will then be arrested right there and taken straight to court. The detectives can also use such sittings to get leads of malpractices and swing into action. *** An MCA from one of the western counties has been the talk of town over the manner he treated one of his former girlfriends. The youthful lawmaker, in what appears to be a love-gone-sour, over the weekend stormed a salon he allegedly started for his mistress and took away everything from the well stocked shop, creating a scene in the busy street. Even the clients who were at the shop at the time were forced to run for dear life as the "operation rudisha mali yangu" was so violent. It is said the man caught wind that the beauty could be having an affair with a young man working in an adjacent shop. *** While Makueni governor Kivuta Kibwana is working day and night to change the lives of his people, Corridors has been told of a senior county official who is working hard in the opposite direction. A source in the county has told Corridors that the lady who has embraced such luxurious habits as gambling has been making strange claims. Recently, she spent Sh12,700 on pool table gambling. Not only that, while she has an official car assigned to her, on Monday she made a claim of Sh8,000 she said was for taxi services she had incurred. Then on Tuesday she filed another claim for Sh15,000 that she allegedly incurred at a little restaurant in Machakos town. Could the reputable governor of Makueni quietly look into the small matter of the gambler gobbling up county resources? *** Is a vocal MP from Rift Valley in trouble? A small bird whispers to Corridors that his colleagues have resolved to shun him both in and out of Parliament. According to those in the know, the situation is so bad that on Wednesday evening, a second time legislator almost roughed him up. Had it not been for some security officials within Parliament, the two would have exchanged blows. It is said the MP fell out with his colleagues after he started badmouthing them in political rallies. Click here for the latest political news