Is it true that businessman Kamlesh Pattni has taken his money making skills
to Zimbabwe where he is "doing very well"? Well, Corridors is told
that the mastermind of Goldenberg, the fanciful scam that involved fictitious
exports of gold and diamond, has teamed up with one of the country's top politicians
in a number of business ventures. ***** Residents of a constituency in Homa Bay county want Inspector-General of
Police Joseph Boinnet to review a gun licence issued to a first term MP from
the area. The lawmaker said to have a criminal past has been brandishing his
pistol, which he has nicknamed "polo", at the slightest provocation.
The MP recently scared parents and children at a school by flashing out the
‘polo’ and threatened to shoot former supporters who have disagreed with what
they term as a bad leadership style. ***** A WhatsApp group that has mostly Jubilee politicians has suddenly become
inactive. Reason? A member of the group that has been sharing ideas on how to
build and keep Jubilee vibrant beyond the 2022 elections has told Corridors
that since some people in government were named to be causing animosity between
President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, members of the
group have gone mute. ***** Did some Busia county officials flee to a neighbouring county after Noordin
Haji approved the charges against a number of top officials?  Well, our
mole tells us that up to five top county officials crossed the border fearing arrest
in connection to the corruption allegations against Governor Sospeter Ojaamong.
The officials switched off their phones and disappeared since Monday night
although their official cars are still parked at the county headquarters. ***** Was a popular MP behind the dramatic scenes by Homa Bay MCAs in Kisumu
on Tuesday? Corridors is informed that an MP who is said to be in the race to
succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti was remote-controlling the chaos that included some
MCAs storming a hotel where their colleagues were putting final touches on this
year’s budget. The MP is said to be considering resigning his current position to
contest for the gubernatorial position should the Court of Appeal uphold the
High Court decision nullifying the election. ***** Some members of a powerful House committee are not happy with their
colleagues claiming they have a fixed mind on the subject matter of an ongoing
probe even before it is complete. Corridors overhead the lawmakers question why
their colleagues are always defending some witnesses who appear before the committee.
The MPs threatened to force their colleagues to be expressing their interest in
every witness before a sitting kicks off. Click here for
the latest political news 