Three petitioners who want the county government to manage the Kenya Ports Authority want a five-judge bench to hear the case.   
They argue that transporting containers by the SGR from the port to the Inland depot at Embaskasi has wrongly cost hundreds of jobs due to lack of business.
Petitioners William Ramogi, Gerald Kiti and Asha Omar want Chief Justice David Maraga to constitute the large bench.
During the hearing at the High Court in Mombasa yesterday, the petitioners through lawyer Nyambura Kehoro said the matter is of public interest.workers sacked
The petitioners have sued the Attorney General, Transport CS, KPA and Kenya Railways Corporation. The respondents oppose a five-judge bench hearing the lawsuit.
Justice Erick Ogola directed all parties to file an application on why the matter should be heard, or should not be heard by more than one judge.
He enjoined civil society group Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri) in the suit. The judge ordered Muhuri to file and serve its response in four days. The matter will be mentioned on July 9.
The petitioners said the conflict rises from a decision by KPA and Kenya Railways to transport containers to Embakasi Inland Container Depot using the standard gauge railway.
They said most container freight, clearing and forwarding firms and cargo trucking companies have sacked hundreds of employees due to lack of business. This violates the rights of the residents of Mombasa, they said.
The petitioners said transport companies will suffer if the court does not intervene. Many youth who hoped to be hired by the firms will remain jobless if nothing is done to stop the shifting of operations to the inland depot, they said.
The SGR transports 104 containers daily from the port. KPA and Kenya Railways plan to increase the number to 216.
The petitioners said this will lock out trucking transporters from business and result in a loss of Sh40 billion revenue annually.
They said the deport ought to have been built within a 100-150km from the port.