Just how did an ex-MP lose his bid to join the influential Parliamentary Service Commission? It is said the former lesgislator's harsh criticism of Opposition leader Raila Odinga after he lost in the controversial primaries is said to have cost him the goodwill of the party nabobs. After spending a year in the cold, an opportunity to serve in the PSC could have offered him a silver lining as he awaits the 2022 elections. But, alas, that was never to be as he did not make the shortlist. It is said that some ODM diehards were uncomfortable with his bid because it could have amounted to betrayal of the party’s loyal backers. ***** An aspirant for MP from Kisii county who lost in the last election is under siege. Auctioneers are said to be on his neck after he allegedly defaulted in repaying a gentleman’s Sh1million soft loan advanced to him. He was supposed to repay the loan with Sh200,000 interest by December last year but since he failed to settle the debt, auctioneers are hunting him down to recover the money. It is reported that the auctioneers have already marked his two-storey flat within Kasarani area to attach and recover the loan they claim has accumulated interest of up to Sh800,000. ***** Some junior traffic officers at a police station in Nairobi are up in arms against their boss who they claim is high-handed and corrupt. They claim the traffic boss demands kickbacks and other forms of favours to allocate them daily duties. The boss allegedly asks for sexual favours from female officers so as to allocate them certain assignments. Those who turn down the advances are victimized and harassed. The victims who say they must each deliver at least Sh3,000 a day, want county police commander Ole Tito to launch investigations. A female officer told Corridors that some of her colleagues are contemplating transferring or quitting the service. ***** Did Transport CS James Macharia just lecture the China Roads and Bridges Company chairman Lu Shan over claims of racism and mistreatment of Kenyan employees at the SGR? Well our moles whisper that the two (pictured) were spotted at a public event held in a Nairobi hotel in a heated argument. The mole overheard that Shan was asked to explain the allegations but as he tried to defend himself, another dignitary interrupted with a handshake. Macharia however did not seem to agree with the explanation forcing him to pull Shan outside the room where an important event had just ended as guests served dinner. Whatever they discussed in privacy only the walls will communicate soon.