On June 26, Kenya hosted the 14th Summit of the Northern Corridor Integration Projects. Uhuru Kenyatta hosted Presidents Yoweri Museveni of Uganda and Paul Kagame of Rwanda, while a special envoy represented President Salva Kiir of South Sudan. Ethiopia, Tanzania, Burundi and the DRCongo attended as observers. The regional leaders were here to discuss the progress of mega infrastructure projects, which are purposed to benefit the wider Eastern Africa region. Also in the agenda were ICT infrastructure development to promote regional inter-connectivity, oil refinery development following the discoveries of oil in Kenya and Uganda, where the two now join South Sudan as oil producing countries. What can be observed from this is not only sustained push for integration in development matters among states in the Eastern African region, but also some sort of Coalition of the Willing, based on interests and urgency of need. Theories and principles are a result of observation and consequently, new trends are developed. Economic integration has in the past few decades greatly increased and influenced international economics in diverse ways. There have emerged economic blocs across the world — Asia, Middle East, Europe, America and Africa as well. The European Union, for example, was formed for economic and trade purposes and benefits. It was to promote free trade and easily coordinate economic policies, as opposed to individual trading at the international market. Guided by functionalism, there was a shift towards formation of specialised technical organisations across national borders. Each regional economic bloc has its objectives and principles, all which are collective — each member state has to comply with. Therefore, actions, decisions and policies that a states take will to a greater extent be influenced by the position of the economic bloc. It is important to note some of the issues states consider before joining any economic bloc. One is the number, scope and mutual compatibility of those economic goals; the intensity and the environment with which and in which they are held and are to be implemented, and the relative importance as guided by principles of economic decision-making — whether a state is willing to bear the cost in terms of capabilities or sacrifice of other economic objectives. Three is the urgency in which they must be achieved; the flexibility with which they are pursued — the degree to which one goal can be substituted or modified in response to pressures for compromise and five, the risk the state is willing to take in attempting to achieve these goals. Looking at these issues, it is important that the states involved in the NCIP be in it because they have factored some of the aforementioned issues so that we don’t have another Coalition of the Willing as we had in the EAC.  Kibii comments on foreign affairs 