I want to confirm that the fears that there could be rent seeking in parliamentary committees are real. They do occur, and I personally had the experience in the tenth Parliament when I was working on the report over the scandal of printing of Kenyan currency by De La Rue where the country lost Sh1.8 billion. The attempt to compromise me was obvious and open, but my committee (Public Accounts Committee) refused to succumb to pressure. When they failed, they resorted to other alternatives. If you have a good and strong chairman leading, especially the oversight committees, it becomes difficult for anybody or any entity to compromise it. But if the chairman loses control of the committee, the people who want to compromise the committee bypass the chairman and directly go to the members. If they fail to reach the members, they normally go directly to Parliament's plenary during the adoption of the report. This is where you see a good report ending up being mutilated so with the initial recommendations being amended completely diluting the report because the House has that power. That is how corruption plays around. I had another experience when I was trying to censure a minister. One of his cabinet colleagues approached and told me; man, look at Nairobi. Then he asked: Do you want to be like MP (the late) Martin Shikuku who ended up in public service without owning anything in Nairobi? He told me they would take care of me. I refused and we went on to impeach the minister. When I was in the National Assembly, I never witnessed such a thing where you threatened a minister with an impeachment motion purely for purposes of rent seeking. However, in the last Parliament, where I served in the Senate - senators do not have powers to impeach Ministers - I remember very well, the case of  a former CS who was threatened with impeachment by MPs and the prime mover of that motion went missing the very last minute when he was expected to move the motion on the floor of the House. We came to hear that afternoon when they were looking for him that he was in South Africa. Khalwale is the immediate former senator for Kakamega. He spoke to the Star. Click here for the latest political news