Property estimated to be worth Sh7.5 million was destroyed in a night dormitory fire at Mokowe Mixed Secondary School in
Lamu on Thursday. Principal Thaddeus Mugute said the fire broke out
at about 8pm when students were studying in their classrooms. The dormitory had a capacity of 93 students. Mugute on Friday said 90 mattresses, beds and students' belongings were burnt down during the fire. No student was injured. The cause of the fire was yet to be established. “We just heard a loud explosion and saw the
dorm on fire. We weren’t able to salvage anything. The losses can go well past
Sh7.5 million because we are still doing the assessment,” Mugute said. The school has a student population of 393, comprising both girls
and boys. Lamu West education officer
Josphat Ngumi convened an urgent meeting at the school on Friday. It was expected the meeting would find a way forward. “It's funny because we had been planning to host principals to discuss issues of security and school fires being witnessed
countrywide. I can't confirm whether or not the school will be closed. That will
be known after the meeting,” Ngumi said. In July 2016, 10 students from Mokowe were
arrested for attempted arson attack after they were found in possession of
several cans of petrol and match boxes. Lamu West police boss Juma Londo said officers had launched investigations to establish whether the fire was
accidental or an arson attack. Students of Witu Secondary School in the same subcounty were on Tuesday sent home following a three-day hunger strike to protest "poor diet". Ngumi said the students
refused to eat and attend classes leaving the management "worried about their health
and general well-being". “We had to send them home for a week as we think of
what to do. Our main concern was that the situation could turn into chaos and
cause unrest or even an uglier situation. They will report back on Monday,”
Ngumi said. In May, Lamu Boys Secondary School was closed
for two weeks after three consecutive fires a single week. The
school has since been reopened.    Ends…photos attached