For a
very long time, Kenya Power has proved to be the pain in the backside for
Kenyans. It is the house of shame as it grapples with inflated power bills scam,
cooked and served by the high-octane graft-filled minds in the company and
slapped on poor Kenyans. Millions
of power consumers have complained about skyrocketing electricity bills but
their cries fell on deaf ears.  As a
consumer himself, lawyer Apollo Mboya stepped in and carried the cross for
hapless Kenyans. He took the corrupt-laden Kenya Power before the courts pro
bono and was now been vindicated. This was
in spite of top echelons burying their heads in the sand, hoping the
accusations would fizzle out as they continued to dig dipper into the public
purse to unashamedly enrich themselves and their godfathers. With
Mboya’s victory in the corridors of justice, out crawled in their thousands the
unsightly maggots of deep-rooted corruption at the power distributor. Just like
in other government agencies, Kenya Power has been the cash cow for political
appointees for years. How its former long-serving managing director Samuel
Gichuru and former Energy minister Chris Okemo waltzed with international
sleaze-stricken conglomerates to rob the tax-payers of millions of dollars is
now the subject of an extradition order to the British Island of Jersey, where
they stashed the Sh520 million loot. Like
their contemporaries, the two demanded kickbacks from international and local firms
seeking tenders from the power company. Interestingly, some of those projects the duo
benefited from, for instance, the Ewaso Nyiro hydropower plant, remain white
elephants to date, as Kenyans continue to pay millions in loans for hot air. With their
extradition directives yet to be executed, the some of these bosses got cozy
with graft. They ate until they vomited on our shoes. Without an iota of shame,
they filled their accounts with stolen money and when they could not feast
anymore, they invited their relatives to the party. The
Swahili say, “Mwenye shibe hajui mwenye
njaa (he who has a full stomach does not listen to the one with an empty
stomach). That is
why when Kenyans complained of frequent outages and inflated bills, company top
brass called them bluff. When the
heat went a notch higher, they held a string of press conferences to explain
how they were working hard to ensure Kenya has power 24/7. I am not
sure but the grapevine says 2022 presidential campaigns is one of the reasons
corruption deals spiked at Kenya Power. This is aimed at building a financial
war chest for top politicians to buy political support and even influence the
outcome of the election. Energy CS
Charles Keter is known to be as cocky as a black-maned lion of the Serengeti.
However, his demeanor, in my humble submission today is that of a cornered Siberian
fox cowering with its tail between its legs. But the
CS still lives in the misguided notion that it is only his juniors who will
suffer the consequences of the blatant theft under his watch. His Board of Directors
are living in grant delusion too. They are right to daydream after all they are
in the make-believe world, where godfathers swing to the rescue at the
slightest threat to their comfort. It takes
a very bold man to lecture the DPP’s office on why it dared to arrest more than
19 top officers in one swoop. The CS seems to live in the past. He should wake
up. This is 2018, Mr CS. The game has drastically changed. If I were
Keter (thank God I am not) I would have climbed down from my ivory tower and vamoosed
through the revolving doors of Stima Plaza and await the direction of the wind blowing
out of the DPP’s office. This
might award him ample time to prepare his defense when the gods desert him in
his time of need. Don’t say
I didn’t warn you.    