Kenya Sevens finished a disappoiting 16th position as the Rugby World Cup Sevens tournament drew to a close on Sunday in San Francisco, USA. It was Shujaa’s worst performance on the global stage since the 2005 Rugby World Cup in Hong Kong, where Kenyans were relegated to the bowl. At the last two World Cup appearances, Kenya had made it to the semi-finals. Kenya were last among the core teams of the world series and finished above Chile, Hong Kong, Uganda, Uruguay, Tonga, Papua New Guinea, Zimbabwe and Jamaica— all non-core teams in the HSBC World Sevens Series. Innocent Simiyu’s charges won only one match 19-7 against the tournament’s lowest ranked side Tonga in their opening match and later blew away a 26-0 lead to succumb to Scotland 31-26. This saw them drop to the Challenge Trophy, where they lost 24-14 to debutants Ireland to drop further down the pecking order and be relegated to the classification matches for positions 13-16, where where they also lost19-17 to Samoa. In the battle for 16th place, Kenya lost 26-14 to Japan to cap off a lacklustre performance. In the match against Japan, Ryota Kano cancelled out Sammy Oliech’s opener before Josefa Lilidamu doubled the lead. Jeff Oluoch then put Kenya back to the lead but Kameli Soijema ensured Japan have the win before Jone Naikabula put it past Kenya’s reach. Against Samoa, Oliech had given Kenya an early lead but the Samoans leveled matters through Joe Perez. Jeff Oluoch, one of the players to emerge the three-day event scored Kenya’s second try for a 12-5 lead at the interval. On resumption, the Samoans came firing on all cylinders and equalised courtesy of David Afamasaga’s score. He converted his own try to tie the match at 12-12. Oliech was to score an unconverted try at the corner following a powerful scrum by the Kenya forwards for a 17-12 lead. The Pacific Islanders were not going down without a fight and drew level, thanks to Perez, who scored his second and Laaloi Leilua, who converted for a 19-17 lead. After gaining possession back from the restart, Kenya looked like they were going to clinch the game at the death but a booming tackle from Neria Fomai stopped Brian Tanga just inches off the line. As the hooter had already gone, the Samoans roared in delight and moved into the 13th place play-off. Head coach Innocent Simiyu blamed the team of adequate preps and mental strength for the poor show. “Our preps were compromised and we did not control the games the way we should have,” added Simiyu.