The mystery surrounding the rape at Moi Girls School Nairobi deepened yesterday after DNA tests failed to link any of the male staff with the offence. A report released on Tuesday evening said samples taken from 32 men who were in the school compound at the time of the assault did not match those taken from the victim. The findings from the government lab have shattered the hopes of finding the person who attacked Form Two girls on June 3. DCI officers have gone back to the drawing board. They have shifted focus to the possibility that the attacker could have come from outside the school. This new theory, however, contradicts statements given by watchmen, who told the police they did not see anyone from outside the school compound go into the dormitories. The staff, especially male teachers, must have received the news of the DNA results with relief. Until yesterday, they were treated as suspects. Kilimani DCI officers had been banking on the DNA analysis to nail the offender. At least 90 people have recorded statements with the police. The rape caused a public uproar. Principal Jael Muriithi proceeded on early retirement, while the board of management was disbanded. These were part of the administrative action taken by Education CS Amina Mohamed. Yesterday, Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende said he had yet to receive the DNA report. Highly placed sources familiar with the findings told the Star it was handed to the Kilimani DCI officers. The report was initially scheduled for release on July 2, but the analyst failed to beat the deadline. Government lab boss Ali Gakweli last week blamed the delay on problems in getting some of the reagents required for the analysis. The suspect was described as light-skinned with squinted eyes. Police are yet to come across a person with such features. They interviewed 32 men who were in the school compound on the night of attack. “The attacker had covered his head with a hood and the girls said they could not identify him well,” a source familiar with the investigations said.