From a scuffle pitting supporters of Sports CS Rashid Echesa against those of Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, the country has been treated to drama. From King Nabongo stepping out to disown Malala to a section of MPs who backed Echesa at a press conference at Parliament Buildings, it has been an eventful week indeed. But back to Kakamega, some politicians believe there is more than meets the eye given the public pronouncements from both the king and the MPs. As to who was behind their public statements remains anyone’s guess with more details expected to be brought to light in the coming days. Many are asking why the king and the MPs chose to blame everything on Malala whereas it is alleged that Rashid’s supporters could have waylaid Malala’s motorcade. ***** Is there a hidden motive behind the recent raid by gunmen at Nyeri speaker John Kagucia’s official residence? Was the attack politically instigated? Governor Kahiga Mutahi and other leaders in the county have called for speedy investigations into the matter. Some of the residents are now demanding that the county security is reshuffled, claiming several people have been gunned down by gangsters in the recent past. Could this be a case of laxity among the top security brass in the county? ***** A Member of Parliament from Nyanza who is part of the ‘Tangatanga’ squad has panicked. The MP known to fly in a chopper to attend public events has of late been receiving resistance from his constituents following his dalliance with DP William Ruto. The former fierce Jubilee critic has found it hard to traverse some parts of his constituency where most people are staunch backers of the Opposition. Last Sunday, some angry youth blocked the MP’s car but were dispersed by police officers who were called for reinforcement. The youth have threatened to make the MP’s travels across the constituency difficult unless he dissociates himself from the DP. ***** Worshippers of the Seventh Day Adventist church located just a stone throw away from the Nairobi city centre and associated with the who is who in society is in the eye of a storm. A section of the faithful has raised the red flag over double standards from the church leadership. The disgruntled ‘voiceless’ members accuse the management of the church of taking keen interest only on the rich while ignoring the poor. If you thought that wasn’t true, wait. Recently, the church elders quickly convened a meeting at the home of a rich elder who was bereaved and pushed members to raise thousands. But when a lowly member died two weeks ago, nothing was heard from the leadership. Call it the proverbial animal farm. ***** Click here for the latest political news