All public institutions will have to publish information during and after the award of tenders, including details of the suppliers and the cost of the goods or services being procured. President Uhuru Kenyatta has issued an Executive order to all public institutions informing them of the new tender rules that took effect on Sunday. The information will be published on public institutions’ websites, a move that is likely to shine the light on businessmen who have quietly traded with the government. The order is Uhuru’s latest move to halt corruption, which has shot up in his priority list since being sworn in for a second term in November last year. Only utilities (water and electricity), emergency supplies, classified equipment (security and other such items) and items of low financial value will be exempt from the public listing. “The procuring entities shall consolidate and publish the information above on the 15th day of every subsequent month, outlining the tender and supplier data for the previous month. For the avoidance of doubt, on the effective date public procuring entities will be required to publish all ongoing contracts entered into prior thereto, and to which finalisation of expected works, supplies or services is pending completion and final payment,” Uhuru said in the executive order. Several high-profile individuals have emerged as owners or beneficiaries of firms linked to procurement-related graft. The name, registration details, PIN , list of shareholders, directors and beneficial owners, address, tax compliance status and country of operation of any firm doing big business with government will now be published on the procuring public agency’s website. Public agencies will also have to keep procurement records for at least six years. Uhuru has further directed the Treasury to ensure all public institutions to move to the government’s e-procurement system, IFMIS, by January 1, 2019. While IFMIS has been blamed for weaknesses that have allowed looting, the system has been key in tracing actors involved in manipulation of systems. “The National Treasury shall ensure that by the 1st of January 2019 all public procuring entities undertake all their procurement through the e-procurement module,” the executive order further reads. 