Opposition leader Raila Odinga’s men yesterday hit hard at Deputy President William Ruto’s allies over claims that the ongoing graft war is aimed at scuttling the DP’s 2022 bid. The ODM lawmakers were responding to Rift Valley MPs Nelson Koech (Belgut), Benard Koros (Sigowet-Soin) and David Sankok (nominated). On Wednesday they said the crackdown on graft is targeting members of a particular area. The three questioned why the arrests were only “leaning” towards one side of the ruling party. But yesterday, MPs Mark Nyamita (Uriri), Samuel Atandi (Alego Usonga) and Godfrey Osotsi (nominated) described the three as “enemies of Kenya”. "If their 2022 election is about corruption then this war is targeting them," the Uriri MP said. Since the arrest of KPLC top managers on Friday last week, some Rift Valley leaders, including Energy CS Charles Keter, known to be close to Ruto, have been jittery. They questioned why police stormed the homes of suspects in the dead of the night. Kenya Power MD Ken Tarus and his predecessor Ben Chumo were among those arrested during the Friday swoop. The Belgut lawmaker said they will not sit back and watch execution of a plot meant to derail Ruto’s presidential ambitions. But Raila’s allies told off their Rift Valley colleagues, describing them as political crybabies. "You recently heard them oppose the lifestyle audit on all public officers and civil servants on the wrong premise that it was targeting certain individuals," Nyamita said. "Before the ink could dry on those outrageous claims, they are back again with another load of claims, alleging the war on corruption is targeting one side." Atandi demanded that President Uhuru Kenyatta recall Ben Chumo’s nomination for the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairman post, saying Parliament should not waste time vetting someone facing criminal charges. Uhuru forwarded Chumo’s name to Parliament for approval to take over from Sarah Serem, whose term ended in December 2017. The Alego Usonga MP, who sits in the National Assembly’s Finance and National Planning Committee, where Chumo was to be vetted, said there are forces hell-bent on having the former MD vetted, despite the ongoing graft case. Click here for the latest political news  