The government will use a Sh6 billion loan from India to expand the Rift Valley Textile East Africa Limited (Rivatex).  Treasury CS Henry Rotich yesterday said India’s Exim Bank gave a “generous loan with favourable terms”. The project will increase job opportunities at the firm from 600 to more than 3,000, he said.  Rivatex collapsed in the late 1990s but was bought and revived by Moi University. Rotich urged its management to sustain operations. "As we focus on manufacturing, such institutions will be key to helping us create the jobs we need and spur economic growth," he said in Eldoret. They launched the company’s modernisation plan. India’s High Commissioner Suchirta Durai and Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago attended. Manufacturing is one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four legacy agenda. Others are affordable housing, universal healthcare and food security. Rotich said all collapsed textile firms in major towns will be revived to create more jobs for the youth. He added that the government is investing in TVET institutions to provide the technical skills needed for industrial growth. Durai said India has invested more than Sh22 billion in projects across the country to boost economic growth. They have also pumped cash into power transmission, farming automation and development of small and medium-scale businesses, she said. The envoy said Kenya and India enjoys cordial ties for mutual benefits. She said 60,000 Indians visit Kenya annually, mostly for tourism, while 20,000 Kenyans go India every year for treatment and education programmes. "We have a very warm relationship with Kenya. This was strengthened by the visit by the leaders of the two countries to each side," Durai said. Rotich said performance of the manufacturing sector has been on the decline, but the government will invest in expansion measures to create more jobs. He said manufacturing had been contributing more than 13 per cent of Kenya’s GDP but this dropped to nine per cent. However, favourable tax incentives have been provided by the government to help the sector grow, Rotich said.