Deputy President William Ruto has promised the Judiciary a budget review following a cut that resulted in outcry by Chief JUstice David Maraga. The Judiciary had requested Sh31.2 billion to fund its operations for the current financial year but was allocated Sh17.3 billion. Maraga said that at least 70 of their projects will stall as a result. Read: Drastic budget cuts will stall 70 Judiciary projects, Maraga warns Also read: Rotich: why Judiciary budget was slashed Ruto said, however, that the judiciary should understand there is a competition for resources. “We have competing areas in terms of resources such as water and rural electricity," he said on Wednesday during the opening of the African Bar Association Annual Conference at the KICC in Nairobi. But he said that where there is debate there is always a solution so they will continue engaging Parliament on the issues that have been raised. "The discussion on sharing of resources must continue as we balance competing interests. We will find a solution ... we agree that the Judiciary has a significant role to play," he said. "We will not leave a functioning Judiciary behind ... we will make sure all arms of government move together. The Executive will engage with Legislature to ensure sourcing to as to deliver on their mandate." The DP noted the need to nurture institutions that consolidate development, democracy and the law, as this will lead to tangible achievements. While pointing out the risks of the personalisation of institutions, he said the law is key as it provides for checks and balances and shields them from undue influence. On the accountability matter, Ruto said the Executive cannot control authorities such as police, the DPP and the Judiciary. He reminded them that "the primacy of law as a noble profession and as an instrument of justice must be felt in society’s development trajectory in direct and meaningful ways". "We value our continent. We have done away with the old reality and ushered in a new one that has tremendous potential, which must be harnessed for opportunities for all," he said. “The African Bar must rise to ensure that Africa is rising on the crest of sustainable development; that it is producing a prosperity that - beyond efficiency and productivity - also reduces poverty, inequality and unemployment." Click here for the latest political news