The government will not pay for damage at schools following many cases of student unrest and the burning of dormitories. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed announced this on Thursday, saying parents will take care of the expenses. The ministry is yet to establish the value of property that has been destroyed. "We are still assessing the situations in schools," Amina told reporters in Nairobi. "They will be reopened when the government deems them safe for learners." Regarding KCSE candidates found guilty of the crimes, the Minister said investigations will determine their fate. "No issue is worth the destruction of property. All issues can be addressed diplomatically on the table. The national examination will continue as planned," she said. Wilson Sossion, who is Secretary General of the Kenya National Union of Teachers, promised the ministry support in dealing with the unrest. "We speak from the same page when it comes to students destroying property because there are better ways of addressing the situation," he said. According to statistics from Knut, 29 schools have experienced unrest since May. The union says the first case was reported at Lamu Boys'Secondary School on May 9. Nyanza region has the highest number - nine - of schools that have experienced unrest. Western follows with four schools. Amina earlier said that preliminary investigations reveal the unrest could be a response to the cancellation of some KCSE examination results last year due to cheating cases. She said students could also be resisting the stringent guidelines set out by the Kenya National Examinations Council in the administration of this year’s exams to stamp out cheating. More on this: [VIDEO] Alarm as new wave of fires hits schools The government warned learners who are behind the fires and protests, that have caused the indefinite closure of some schools, that they will not be spared. Education PS Belio Kipsang said they will be unmasked and treated as criminals. Read: You will not hide behind uniform, Kipsang warns Also read: Expert comment: What Amina said about school fires Click here for the latest political news