Education PS Belio Kipsang has warned students they “will not hide behind the school uniform”. This follows rising cases of school unrest and arson that has led to the closing of about 35 schools. Kipsang yesterday said burning of schools is a criminal offence and all students behind the crimes will be held accountable. “They will not hide behind the uniform. We shall unmask them and treat them as criminals,” he said. Kipsang spoke at Shimo la Tewa Secondary School. Education CS Amina Mohamed also issued a stern warning to students. Amina visited Kisumu Girls High School and said criminal offences will be treated as such and nobody will be spared if they burn or destroy public property. “Twenty-two arrests have been made. They are in different stages of investigations in Kisumu county. Three are in remand and two are out on bond,” she said. Read: Education ministry mulls having single uniform for schoolchildren  CONTAINERS Belio said parent of students found guilty will have to meet the cost of restoring infrastructure. The PS said school heads must invest in intelligence systems. “They need to know what happend within their schools because they are like the CEOs of their institutions and the buck stops with them,” Kipsang said. In 2016, there were more than 450 cases of arson and unrest reported, he said. Last year, the cases went down to about 90 and this year, there have been 35. “More than 99 per cent of secondary schools are doing well. We are doing the best by trying bring down these incidences. “We are working as an inter-agency; we have officials from Knec, TSC, Ministry of Education and the DCI,” Kipsang said. He urged students to focus on preparing for the national examination. Forty more containers have been added to make sure examinations papers are brought closer to the centres. Amina said the ministry is following leads to find those behind student unrest. “We have phones that we are interrogating to see who the contacts are… who has been talked to and what messages have been conveyed,” Amina said. She said the government is committed to making sure schools are conducive for learning. “We must give our children time to prepare for exams. We don’t want to criminalise young people, but we cannot allow them to commit criminal offences and get away with it,” Amina said. Nyanza region recorded the highest number of school unrest this month with some being arson cases targeting dormitories. Among the affected are Barding Secondary School (Siaya), Kisumu Girls High School (Kisumu), Oriwo Boys secondary (Homa Bay). Click here for the latest political news