Auditor General Edward Ouko has put Kakamega county on the spot over an unaccounted Sh1.8 billion for the financial year 2014/15. An OAG representative told the Senate's Public
Accounts Committee that IFMIS performance was partially hampered leading to the excess expenditure. According to the official, the county had an expenditure of Sh7.9 billion but IFMIS posted Sh8.5 billion, which was in excess by Sh1, 875,400,221. The auditor further cited that all the records were not fully integrated and that the county revenue fund account was non-existent. "In view of the foregoing, the accuracy and completeness of
the financial statement generated through the system could not be confirmed." The official said they held a meeting with the county
officials in Kakamega where they went
through the report. "We went through the report but in terms of specification, we
never went through that during the meeting." Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, while responding to the report, said
not all modules had been fully activated during the time of audit. He said it was the work of the Treasury to create
modules, upgrade the financial charter, and to integrate the financial
statements. The county chief said they are
working on remedying the issue, having placed a manual system to capture all
financial transactions within the county. "In February 2016, with assistance from the National Treasury
the county installed a system that helps the county capture local revenue. Financial
statements in 2014 and 2016 were captured manually." PAC chairman Moses Kajwang questioned why the county had
taken time to respond to the audit report stating it was an offence. "You were supposed to submit the documents to the Auditor
General 14 days to and to the committee seven says to," Kajwang said. Kajwang faulted the officers from Kakamega who are mandated to submit
the report and told Oparanya that he should not excuse their behaviour. “Please do not excuse them but take action. We cannot be in
a situation where we are seeing documents for the first time and we are expected
to make progress.” Oparanya, in defence of the officers in question, said the lot is was
new as the government was still in transition. "All these officers you see here are new. This was
an audit done in 2015." Click here for the latest political news