Deputy President William Ruto has hit back at politicians and elders over raging debate in Central Kenya over a 'political debt'. On June 28th, the Kikuyu Council of Elders asked Ruto to retire together with Uhuru when his term expires in 2022 adding that they don't owe him. Read:We’ll negotiate with all presidential candidates in 2022 – Kikuyu elders Also Read:Kalenjin elders slam Kikuyus for asking Ruto to keep off Uhuru tours But speaking at All Saints Cathedral in Nairobi on Sunday, DP Ruto said he owes no man anything and that leaders should stop the debate. "We have the debt of ensuring that our commitment, pledges and plans for Kenya must succeed. That is the debt that we have," he said. "I know there has been a debate of who owes who what. But I want to remind leaders that in Romans 13:8, it says that owe no man nothing except the debt of love for one another." Ruto said the only debt that should be owed to anyone in Kenya is that of love and nothing else. "...and no person or community in Kenya owes anybody anything including myself, the only thing we owe ourselves is the debt of love," he said. The Jubilee Party’s 20-year plan was reportedly for Uhuru to take the first ten years and, in return, support Ruto for another 10 years. The Kikuyu council’s national secretary general Peter Munga said Ruto is part and parcel of the current presidency and should, therefore, prepare to exit with the Uhuru administration. It was the clearest signal yet of the fluid nature of the DP’s support in Central Kenya, which has been sending mixed signals. The anti-Ruto sentiment in the Mt Kenya region has gained momentum since Uhuru shook hands and signed a unity pact with Opposition chief Raila Odinga on March 9. More on this: 2022: Kikuyu elders tell DP Ruto to retire Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, the unrepentant face of Mount Kenya dissent, claimed that the DP’s allies are blackmailing Kikuyus living in the Rift Valley over possible violence. Ngunjiri posted: “Anyway 2022 is far. But we are watching. As I said yesterday when I spoke. On this 2022 issue watu wakuje pole pole, wakiwa na heshima (people should tread carefully, and with respect).” The fear of “betrayal” has forced the DP to scout for personal friends, loyal politicians as well as influential powerbrokers in Central Kenya to prop up his 2022 presidential bid. More on this: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ Click here for the latest political news