President Uhuru Kenyatta is acting on this corruption menace. He is finally doing what we have been demanding all along: leading from the front. The President needs unconditional support from all of us. With enough political goodwill, a clear message can be sent to all and sundry that corruption will not be tolerated in this great republic. That message must come from the very top and trickle downwards. The recent crackdown on corruption has given us new hope as taxpayers since we have clearly seen key players being emboldened in the knowledge that they can always get away with it. Given the high threshold for prosecution and conviction placed by the criminal justice system, convictions will not easily happen. Coupled with the intricate networks that have been developed over the years to support this corruption enterprise, other ways must now be quickly looked for to deal with this scourge. As a lawmaker, I assure the country that all is not lost. The surest way to slay the dragon of corruption — once and for all — is to deal with it politically. Corruption is endemic. The latest cases —  the National Youth Service, Kenya Pipeline Company, Kenya Power, maize and sugar scandals — are only notable in the sense that they have been leaked to the public. Otherwise, you might be surprised that such mega scams are the order of the day in many other state departments and corporations, it is only that they are not brought into the limelight. These graft scandals differ in form and magnitude but one thread running through them is procurement. This has created fertile avenues for unscrupulous public officers and suppliers to siphon public funds with abandon. My stint as National Assembly Public Accounts Committee Chairman has given me fresh insights. The impunity is simply astonishing and cannot be swept under the carpet. This is our country and we should rise above our comfort zones and fight this vice together. The chairman of National Assembly Public Accounts Committee and MP for Ugunja spoke to the Star