Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot has demanded an apology from Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju for claiming Mau Forest evictions were peaceful. In a statement yesterday, Cheruiyot said Tuju’s claims were “dumbfounding and unfortunate”. He said the Cabinet Secretary was sanitising an operation that was inhumane. “CS Raphael Tuju owes people who were living in the forest an apology. The evictions were a gross violation of human rights,” Cheruiyot said. “I urge him to take the earliest opportunity to apologise. His scornful dismissal of the issues raised by leaders is nauseating to say the least.” Tuju on Sunday said leaders opposed to the ongoing evictions were expressing their personal opinion. Speaking at Jubilee Party headquarters, Tuju urged aggrieved individuals to channel their complaints to relevant authorities. He said the eviction is coordinated by a multi-sectoral agency including Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Water Tower Authority and the Office of the President. “The government has to do what it has to do for the benefit of this country,” Tuju said. Read:Mau eviction won’t be called off – Tuju Among leaders who have condemned the evictions are Senate majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen and MPs from North Rift counties. Tuju said the lawmakers’ claims should not be taken as the official Jubilee Party position. “Gone are the days when cabinet secretaries were aloof to issues affecting Kenyans,” Cheruiyot said. He said Tuju was not speaking on behalf of the government, saying an order for the evictions could not have come from President Uhuru Kenyatta. The senator said Tuju’s remarks brought shame to the President and the party. He said it was wrong for Tuju to tell off leaders who raised issue over the manner in which the evictions were being done. “Tuju said he wonders how leaders from the ruling party can oppose a state directive. But the people of Mau are asking which directive?” Cheruiyot said. He said the government could not have ordered the eviction of people living on land for which they have genuine title deeds. Cheruiyot said Tuju ought to have know that residents were at the forefront of flashing out people who had invaded the forest. Read:Senator Cheruiyot to Tuju: 'Apologise to Mau evictees, stop sanitising rights abuses' “There is no debate about removing invaders. Every sane Kenyan supports that,” Cheruiyot said. The senator said he was against invasion of private land by rogue government officers on the pretext of conservation. “The continued silence by the county commissioner is worrying. Studies for more than 4,000 students have been disrupted,” he said. He said officers involved in the operation committed heinous acts against women and children. “Police brutality should not be condoned. The culprits must be brought to book,” he said. The two-term senator challenged Tuju to visit the Mau and “get the feeling on the ground.” “Tuju is still new in the party. His remarks can be excused but they cannot go unchallenged,” Cheruiyot said. Read:Court declines to issue orders stopping Mau evictions Click here for the latest political news