Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company will establish a technical training institute for water workers. The Sh300 million college will be established at Kiawambeu water plant, in partnership with the national government. The institute will offer courses on water content, supply, treatment, engineering, plant construction and sanitation. It will offer refresher programmes for water services providers. “The water institute will be the first in the country initiated by a water company in partnership with the national government,” Muwasco board chairman Peter Munga said. Water PS Joseph Wairagu confirmed Muwasco’s proposal to establish the institute has been approved by the ministry. Wairagu inspected water projects in Murang’a county last Wednesday. He said the Murang’a institute will be part of the Kenya Water Institute, and thus able to receive government funding. “We have already written to the chairperson of the Kenya Water Institute to make Murang’a Water Institute one of its campuses so that it can be supported by the government,” the PS said. Kenya has three water institutes in Tharaka Nithi, Kitui and Kisumu. The college will be built on two acres the water company is buying next to Kiawambeu water treatment plant. “This institute will benefit both the region and the country as it will provide training to all technical workers in the water sector,” Wairagu said. The PS praised Muwasco management for the establishing an Sh18 million water bottling plant with a capacity of 5,000 bottles daily. The plant’s sales amount to Sh100 million every month, which is channeled back into the community through expanded water connections and c improved water and sanitation services. PS Wiragu pledged to source for funding to help Muwasco establish a line to distribute water from the Kayahwe treatment plant, which has been idle. “The company will then establish service lines taking water to Makuyu and Maragua ridge since the plant is not being used now,” he added. Area MP Ndindi Nyoro said the government has approved tarmacking of Maragi-Kiawambeu-Weithaga road to faciliate transport. He said the project would stimulate the local economy. “Residents will be able to sell food to students admitted in the school and establish accommodation facilities,” Nyoro said. He praised the government for many water projects in the area.