The government has issued an alert over an outbreak of coffee disease. Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation director general Eliud Kireger yesterday confirmed the outbreak of the bacterial blight disease. It could cause 100 per cent crop damage. Kireger said there has been increased occurrence of the disease in high altitude areas such as the Rift Valley due to the ongoing rainy season. “The coffee disease was common in Solai in Nakuru and Mt Elgon in Trans Nzoia. It has spread to Kisii, Kiambu, Nandi, Nyeri and Murang’a. The disease’s common name is Solai-Elgon die back,” he said. High altitude areas The disease is common in high attitude areas characterised by low temperatures, very cold wind, high daily temperatures and hailstorms. It is spread through plant surface water, splash erosion, farm machinery and tools and the human body. Kireger said, “We urge farmers to use integrated management. Protection entails creating conditions that are not favourable to pathogens. Containment will avoid plant-to-plant and farm-to-farm spread of the infection.” Elijah Gichuru, the Coffee Research Institute director, said the crop is struggling with high incidences of frost. In January, coffee production in Othaya decreased by 1.4 million kilogrammes over three years because of climate changes, growers were told. Chairman of the 10,000-member Othaya Coffee Farmers Cooperative Society James Gathua asked farmers to replace old crop varieties with improved ones. He urged the adoption of Ruiru 11 and Batian varieties, saying production cost is lower. “The two varieties are resistant to Coffee Berry Disease, Leaf Rust and produce high yields,” Gathua said during the AGM in Othaya town. Gathua said the society will also start growing Ruiru-grafted coffee seedlings by next year. The seedlings were already in their nursery. He also said they will start value addition to coffee husks and make briquettes from the waste using new compacting. Last year, the society got a Sh3 million machine from former MP Mary Wambui.