Lawmakers Opiyo Wandayi and Florence Mutua want President Uhuru Kenyatta to order the burning of illegally imported, poor quality sugar to save the local industry. The Ugunja MP and Busia Woman Representative also called on Sunday for the freezing of imports for the next five years for the full revival of millers in cane-growing communities. Wandayi, who is also Public Accounts Committee Chairman, blamed cartels for the crisis in the industry and noted the need for a lasting solution. "There is no need for the President to wait for the joint parliamentary committee report on contraband sugar since the truth is known. The Head of State should use the powers conferred on him by the Constitution to save local industries," he said. Mutua pointed out that a window allowed the importation of excess sugar. "We can't allow imports while growing cane for the benefit of our people. Cartels care about their profits, not the welfare of our people," she said. They spoke on Sunday during a funds drive for the completion of Igara Spiritual Ministries Church in Nambale, Busia County. Mutua exonerated the committee, in which she is a member, saying their report was not conclusive. Some MPs termed the committee's report a waste of tax payers' money as it did not answer key questions. The woman rep said: “We had summoned the Kenya Bureau of Standards to shed light on allegations of the presence of mercury in imported sugar. Officials asked for four more days to submit the report but the Speaker added 10." On July 5, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi gave MPs 10 days to supply evidence showing the sugar in the market is safe for consumption. Muturi told members of the joint committee on agriculture and trade that they want comprehensive information on the situation in the country, not just in some counties. The Speaker took issue with how the committee chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega handled the probe, saying it allowed members to "hug, kiss and exchange pleasantries with the suspects", thereby missing the mark. Details: No hugs and kisses in sugar probe, proper report in 10 days, Muturi tells MPs Also read: Wario praises colleagues for rejecting sugar probe report Mutua spoke of the 11th Parliament when she chaired a sub-committee that tabled a report titled 'The Crisis Facing The Sugar Industry'. She said that if fully implemented, farmers will benefit significantly. "The report has strong recommendations on how to deal with porous borders that [cause the market to be flooded with illegal sugar]," she said, adding the revival of collapsed factories was one of the many recommendations. Related: Matiang'i admits to mistakes in monitoring imports, says lessons learnt Ibrahim Juma, National Chairman of the Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers, said delays in opening the Sh5 billion Busia Sugar Industries was a cause for concern. Juma urged West Kenya Chairman Singh Rai to withdraw his case against Busibwabo factory so it can be opened. "The immediate opening of the factory will enable farmers to take their children to school," he said, adding illegal imports have denied more than 10 million people livelihoods. Click here for the latest political news