Police are investigating two wardens attached to Naivasha prison suspected to have been part of the kidnapping of a middle-aged woman in Murang’a. According to Murang’a County Criminal Investigations Officer Julius Rutere, the two are suspected to have been part of a gang that kidnapped Margaret Waithera on July 13. Waithera was rescued last Thursday after 6 days at Gathuku village in Kahuro sub-county. Police officers gunned down three suspects who included 80-year-old granny Wambui Muturi, Samuel Kang’ethe and John Mwangi. The three are said to have declined to open the door to the house where they were keeping the victim, prompting an exchange of fire. Rutere noted that investigations are still ongoing to find other suspects who were working with the three. He added that the police are also investigating the source of the AK 47 rifle found at the scene and the origin of government number plates that the suspects’ car had. Read: Murang'a cops gun down three kidnappers, rescue woman at Gathuku village Waithera who spoke to journalists minutes after being rescued by the police said she met the kidnappers as she drove home on a dilapidated road in the neighbouring Kiria village. She said the gang had a vehicle with government number plates and overtook her before blocking the road. They opened her car doors remotely before dragging her out and forcing her into their vehicle where they gave her a drink that made her lose her consciousness. When she woke up, was on a bed in a home being guarded by one of the kidnappers who demanded Sh5 million ransom from her family. Waithera said she was not tortured but that the granny threatened to chop off her head if she did not co-operate. “She made me a meal of rice and green grams, and boiled maize every day,” she said of the granny. The three, she noted, asked for the contacts of two of her brothers who they called to demand the money. Also read: Gangster granny shot dead as cops rescue kidnap victim Click here for the latest political news