In an endless sea of well-groomed church-goers and conservative Christians, a new genre of gospel music starts to emerge in the late 2000s. It’s fun, vibrant, experimental and in all forms revolutionally. It goes against what was principally accepted as Christian music and borrows a lot from the secular world. It conforms to the ways of the world and now has become accepting of individualism. Urban gospel continues to grow and diversify, and artistes seem to be enjoying quite the mainstream success that come with it. In fact, in Kenya, it’s easy to gain popularity doing gospel music compared to secular music. Artistes like Masterpiece seem to be enjoying the fruits of their decisions, as the industry continues to favour them. The lad is only 20 years old and is already playing big concerts around the country. Masterpiece is building a young, passionate fan base that really seems to love him. Whether it’s his physical appearance, sense of style or even his contemporary music, he truly owns his identity. To him, his personality is an appreciation of what God has granted him. Masterpiece is a perfect example of what the gospel scene is slowly turning into. In truth, it’s quite interesting, but its gradually moving away from set religious standards. But that doesn’t seem to matter anymore. As an artiste, besides his fascinating hairstyles, he knows how to get his crowd on its feet. Long gone are the days when gospel artistes didn’t care much for how they look on camera. Now it’s part of the entire package and it’s important because artistes need to get paid so they can eat. Old-school Christians might still be coming to terms with this new sub-genre, and the stark generational differences are becoming apparent. For what it’s worth, Masterpiece is a true entertainer. Judging him from his performance value, he is certainly aware of his impact in the music scene. The charts and his recent recognition at the Groove awards are a clear indication that the country is watching. He is quite promising, even Amani dreams of collaborating with him. Let’s see how this goes.