Open the gates to let more Kenyans go wish former President Daniel Moi a quick recovery, Water CS Simon Chelugui has said. President Uhuru Kenyatta with a team of Jubilee leaders for the second time visited Moi in his Kabarak home in Nakuru county on Saturday. “Our aging father who ruled Kenya for 24 years is now recovering from a knee injury after he was admitted to a hospital in Israel so this is the time he needs more quick recovery wishes from the people of Kenya,” Chelugui said. Also read: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? Pictures: Uhuru meets Moi, son Gideon at Kabarak The CS was addressing a church service at St Mary’s Mother of God in Kabarnet town, Baringo county on Sunday. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, who is the KANU chairman, was at home to welcome Uhuru with his team who went to visit his father. Details of the closed-door one-hour meeting were scanty. A brief statement from Moi’s office indicated President Kenyatta wished the retired President a quick recovery from a recent surgery on his knee. “Mzee Moi, on the other hand, thanked President Kenyatta for steering the country to the path of unity,” said a statement. At the time, Deputy President William Ruto had gone to visit the home of Lt Gen Joseph Kasaon, for the funeral service of his wife, Sarah Kasaon, who succumbed to kidney failure, where he was later joined by Uhuru. Also present were Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis and Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie. “There is power in greetings because the journey we have covered and where we are going is still far so the circle should continue… let the governor come to my house I go to his, like that to embrace unity in our country... even the entire people of Baringo should be allowed to go and greet their father Moi in Kabarak,” Chelugui said. He said there is no problem in shaking hands as “even opposition leader Raila Odinga shook hands with President Uhuru”. More: Raila visits Moi at his Kabarak home, talk on state of Kenyan nation Also see: Uhuru, Raila, Moi talks fuel 2022 succession debate