Tourism CS Najib Balala on Friday directed the Kenya Wildlife Service to suspend translocation of black rhinos following the death of eight. In a statement, Balala called for independent investigations to unearth the cause of the deaths. The investigations will be led by University of Nairobi’s senior veterinary pathologist Peter Gathumbi and South African wildlife conservationist and translocation expert Markus Hoffmeyer. “We invited Prof Gathumbi...to Tsavo to carry out independent investigations. He collected samples on July 12 and will present his report in a week,” the statement read. The rhinos were being moved from Nairobi and Nakuru national parks in coordination with the World Wildlife Fund-Kenya. According to preliminary investigations by KWS veterinary teams, the deaths resulted from salt poisoning after the animals took water high in salinity when they arrived at their new home. The high salt levels led to dehydration, resulting in excess water intake of the saline water that further worsened the problem, it says. The eight dead rhinos were among 11 that had been moved to the sanctuary in an initiative to start a new population in line with the National Rhino Conservation and Management Strategy. The exercise targetted 14 rhinos, three others were to be moved later on Friday. Data from the ministry indicate that from 2005 to this year, KWS has transferred 223 rhinos — having only nine fatalities in the process. The recent deaths are, however, the largest number in a row during such an exercise. On Friday, World Wide Fund-Kenya, in a statement through CEO Mohamed Awer, said the transfer was risky and challenging. “Translocating wild animals of this size is extremely challenging and not without risk, but black rhinos are under enormous threat,” he said. “So efforts to try and protect them are crucial for future generations. At a time when three rhinos are poached daily for their horns, any losses are particularly painful.” Awer said they will work together to unravel the mystery of what transpired. “We’re extremely concerned to hear reports that seven black rhinos have died in Tsavo East National Park after being moved from Nairobi and Nakuru national parks as part of a translocation programme,” he said. “We’re in contact with the KWS to confirm the full situation and offer our support in launching an urgent independent assessment.” 