Tiaty MP William Kamket has asked the Tugen not to castrate their own bull in the 2022 presidential race as every Kalenjin sub-tribe has a kingpin. Kamket made this plea on Saturday while telling the people that Kanu chairman Gideon Moi will win that poll. The MP said it would be "awkward for a community to despise its own". "We all fall under the Kalenjin community in Rift Valley but in fragments, we Pokots have West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo as our kingpin, the Nandi have Deputy President William Ruto and the Tugen have [Baringo] Senator Gideon," he said. "Gideon is currently the talk of Kenya and with no doubt, he shall succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022". Kamket noted that since Kenya attained independence, Tugens of Baringo county fear losing elections and being thrown into the opposition. He told the voters to stop threatening to "castrate your own bull" and nurture him so that he becomes the fifth president. Kamket also spoke of the war on corruption, saying lifestyle audits ordered by Uhuru will end corruption and see the fulfillment of the Big Four agenda. He addressed hundreds of mourners who attended the funeral of retired senior chief Daniel Chelagat alias Amin in Saimo-Kipsaraman ward, Baringo North Sub-county. The 96-year-old was the father of Peter Chelang'a, who is Gideon's personal assistant. Politicians including Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie and Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot echoed Kamket's remarks but Gideon noted that he had not declared his plans for 2022. The Kanu chair told his opponents in Jubilee to stop "wetting their garments with sweats of worries". “It is time for leaders to unite to finish the thorn of insecurity and support Uhuru's fight agaisntcorruption in order to improve the economy of our country. Let us leave the rest for another time,” he said. Several Jubilee Party leaders say Ruto is more likely to become president as he is closer to Uhuru. In apparent reference to his, Gideon said: "Even if you proclaim that you are ahead, you have not arrived." Baringo North MP William Cheptumo asked the Kalenjins to unite and give Ruto a chance because of his "huge strides" in politics. He also asked the people to work together to end cattle rustling and banditry. Read: Rift MCAs use church to preach the Ruto gospel in Gideon’s face Also read: Gideon Moi rebuilding Kanu ahead of 2022 election 'GIDEON, RAILA OR KALONZO' Earlier on Saturday, Kamket acknowledged that he is not a prophet but has said he could predict the winner of the 2022 race. He said he applied "mathematics of elimination" to arrive at the conclusion that it will be either Gideon, Opposition leader Raila Odinga (ODM) or Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper). The MP further said that the winner will be "the one who once told former President Daniel arap Moi to swallow saliva”. He said Kenyans knew the person he was talking about and that he did not have to expound. He issued these remarks at at the homecoming party of Nominated Wiper MCA Grace Parantai at her Keek-Onyokie home in Kajiado county. Kamket excited guests when he said that politicians who have met former President Daniel arap Moi to seek blessings are Kenya's future presidents. The MP told Kalonzo to seek the exp-President's blessings if he wants to be the next leader. “It is time for all the children of Moi to come together and form allies for the next government. Definitely, the one who abused Mzee Moi will not be in this league,” he said. Earlier this year, Kenya came up with a bill aimed at radically changing the presidency by whittling down its powers and introducing a powerful prime minister. On several occasions, the MP has said he is "not a systems person but a non-conformist". More on this: Jubilee MP drafts Bill to create PM position, one term presidency Also read: DP Ruto laughs-off Kamket's bill to create PM position THE PLACE OF THE MAA Kamket further said the late William Ntimama handed Kajiado Central MP Elijah Memusi powers and blessings to lead the Maasai. “The Maa people, through Memusi, should rally alongside Kenyans of goodwill to ensure this crooked leader does not see power in 2022,” he said, without specifying. He noted that the Constitution does not guarantee the 'safety' of Kenyans where presidential elections are concerned. Memusi said it is time for the Maa to stand up and be counted. “The Maa nation should be part and parcel of future successive governments. We want our own party so we can negotiate with others on power-sharing. We cannot, forever, play second fiddle in an independent Kenya,” the MP said. Regarding the fight against graft, the politician said he was supportive of lifestyle audits as anyone with a past riddled in corruption will be locked out of the poll. “While we support the fight on corruption, we in the opposition will wait for Baba to tell us who to support in the next election. Ruto might as well go to the opposition,” he said. Kalonzo's remarks at homecoming: I'm ready to help you fight corruption, Kalonzo tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news