Barack Obama yesterday expressed joy at being back in the country and reminisced about the first time he visited his father’s homeland in the late 1980s. “I was 27-years-old at the time working as a community organiser when I got the opportunity to know Auma. I fell in love with her and even though I hadn’t grown up with her I was determined to better understand the life of my father and that of his people,” said Obama. “I flew to Nairobi and Auma hosted me in her apartment where we talked all night as I familiarised myself with the city and its surroundings.” After staying in Nairobi for a while, Obama and his sister Auma made their way to K’Ogelo, the homeland of his father Barack Obama Snr. He recalled with nostalgia his first trip to his father’s ancestral home, vividly describing how excruciating it was. “We took a slow train which travelled overnight and when we finally got to Kisumu we took a bus. In the bus, there were some chickens on my lap and some sweet potatoes digging into my side,” said Obama to the amusement of his audience. “When we arrived near our destination we had to get into a matatu which was more crowded than the bus. It dropped us off and we walked up a dirty path to Mama Sarah’s house although it wasn’t quite as fancy as it is now.” Obama said he longed for chicken meat when he first visited in 1988. “I was hungry but I had to catch a chicken to eat so we scurried around the yard until we caught a chicken and fortunately Mama Sarah (Obama’s grandmother) was better with a knife than I was because I think I got a little squirmish,” said Obama. “I visited my father’s grave and it gave me a sense of satisfaction that no five star hotels could ever provide because it connected you to your past and the stories of those who came before you,” he said. “It grounded you and gave you a sense of place that then fortified you for the future.” Obama said his coming to Kenya when he had left office as US President was in honour of his promise to Kenyans. “Three years ago I visited Kenya as the first sitting American President to have come from Kenya. While then my sister introduced me to make my speech, today I am coming as a brother and as a citizen of the world,” he said. Later in the afternoon Obama opened the basketball court and encouraged the youth to make use of sports to realise their dreams. He departed to South Africa where he is expected to lead the Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations today.