Nyamira governor John Nyagarama has arrived in the country from the USA ahead of his son Ndemo Nyagarama’s burial planned for this Friday. Nyagarama, who has been in America for more than two months for treatment was welcomed at the JKIA by his Kisii counterpart James Ongwae before heading to The Lee Funeral home to view his son’s body. At Lee, Nyagarama was joined by Council of Governors Chairman Josphat Nanok and Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso for a short service. Speaking during the service, Nanok consoled the Nyagarama family and prayed for God’s fortitude for them to bear the loss. “It is a sad moment but we as the council of governors stand with Nyagarama’s family during this difficult moment,” Nanok said. Ongwae termed Ndemo’s loss a blow to the Nyagarama and his wife Naomi but asked the family to find courage and strength in the Lord. “We have nothing to offer at this moment apart from asking for the Lord’s grace and love for the family. May you find comfort in the Lord during this trying time,” Ongwae said in his brief address to the family, relatives and friends. Laboso said governors would be ready to offer any necessary support required to ensure that preparations for burial ceremony are complete without any hitch. “Count on the support of governors during this mourning moment. We shall stand with you all the way,” she said. Nyagarama said his son’s death was his lowest moment especially given that he was forced to cut short his treatment midway to attend the burial. “It has been really draining mentally and physically for the family. Doctors couldn’t believe that I wanted to cut short my treatment to attend this burial. But I had to come to see off my son,” he said in an emotional speech. Ndemo, who is Nyagarama’s first born son died on June 11 but his burial had been pushed forward to await his father’s arrival. He will now be buried this Friday Nyamira. Read; Governor Nyagarama's son dies in Nairobi after battle with menengitis Click here for the latest political news