The Council of Governors has called out the national government on an unspent amount of Sh11.3 billion from the Equalisation Fund. Chairman Josphat Nanok (Turkana) said on Wednesday that the cumulative amount of Sh12.4 billion from FY 2014/15 was not disbursed to the fund's secretariat until the beginning of FY2016/17. The Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) reported that beneficiaries of the fund, which are 14 marginalised counties, only spent Sh1.1 billion out of this amount. "The amount was budgeted for but no disbursements were made. The current situation of low absorption is as a result of the secretariat's failure to complete projects identified in the counties,” the chair said in a statement. Nanok said counties cannot spend the resources as powers have been given to the secretariat. The Governor said that the secretariat, through Equalisation Fund Appropriation Act 2017, was given the authority to utilise the funds as provided for in the lapsed three-year Equalisation Fund Policy prepared by the CAR in 2013. He noted that counties had proposed the transfer of the money to counties in the form of conditional grants. More on this: [VIDEO] Counties threaten suit over fund sharing Also see: Where are equalisation monies? PS queried The chair further said that counties are not represented in the fund's board. The proposal to Parliament and National Treasury included joint administration of the fund where at board level, at least two governors would represent the 14 counties and air their recommendations. “This would have ensured proper participation of citizens and institutionalisation of the projects in each county, thus improving efficiency for the absorption of the fund,” Nanok said. The government’s first policy on marginalisation identified Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Samburu, West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garissa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu as beneficiaries. The fund is aimed at helping put them at par with other counties. By June last year, however, only Sh482 million had been spent by on projects across Garissa, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, West Pokot, Isiolo and Tana River. It was announced in December 2017 that the marginalised counties will receive more than Sh12 billion from the commission in financial year 2018-19. Related: Stretch Equalisation Fund to reach urban poor, Uhuru tells CRA Also read: Minority communities set to get share of Equalisation Fund Click here for the latest political news