Leader Carl ‘Flash’ Tundo and second-placed Baldev ‘Boldy’ Chage renew their rivalry as the third round of the Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) which resumes this weekend at Lisa Farm.
Tundo, who has racked up two back-to-back wins with 78points, enjoys a five points cushion over Chager going into the Kenya Motor Sports Club (KMSC) organised round.
Chager, despite having not won any of the three events held thus far, has nevertheless remained consistent on the podium and his close fought tussle against ‘Flash’ leaves no doubt about what to expect this weekend.
Tundo, equaled Shekhar Mehta’s record of five Safari Rally in March, overtaking Chager on log and taking control of the series last month after winning  round 4 RSC Athi Rally. The son of veteran Safari Rally veteran Frank Tundo, will be hoping to uphold his dominance while Chager will be seeking to regain the lead he lost last month.
The tussle for co-drivers title is also anticipated to produce fireworks with Chager’s navigator Ravi Soni and Tundo’s partner Tim Jessop going neck-to-neck.
Eric Bengi who is lying third on 41 has remained competitive with two back to back fifth positions on Safari and Athi.
“We hope we can maintain the consistency till the end of the season. The car is more reliable than last season although we intend one rally at a time,” said Bengi.
Last year’s KMSC rally winner Farhaaz Khan is one of the rising stars of the KNRC and hopies to make a mark this season. “We won the belated 2017 KMSC Rally earlier in the year and will be hoping to perform well this weekend,” said Khan.
Farhaaz’s sibling Imran Khan has entered a Subaru Impreza N10 which the later previously competed with on the KNRC front. “The Subaru N10 has always had a special place in my heart and is even more exciting that it’s being driven by my brother,” said Farhaaz.
Scrutineering will take place on Saturday at KMSC Clubhouse in Nairobi’s South C on the same day reconnaissance will be in progress. The rally will be flagged off from Olekajiado Resort on Sunday from 8am.The KMSC Rally, which was initially scheduled for April, was rescheduled and eventually swapped with Eldoret which was programmed for this weekend. Eldoret has been pushed forward due to torrential rains pounding some areas of this year’s route.