Six Form Four girls who went missing from a secondary school in Gatanga last week have been found in Kiganjo estate, Thika town, Kiambu.
Gatanga deputy county commissioner David Rotich confirmed the girls were found on Saturday evening and are being held at Makongeni police station for interrogation.
The six, who are a few months away from sitting their KCSE exam, caused their parents agony when they vanished from their homes last Tuesday.
The girls left their homes in school uniform, but they later changed into home clothes, which they had worn under the uniforms.
Parents reported their disappearance after they failed to return home from school in the evening and discovered they had not attended classes that day.
Two of the students are said to have disappeared with school fees. The boda boda operators who ferried them reported that the girls said they were done with education and wanted to seek employment.
A parent of one of the students told the Star after they disappeared, one of his daughters posted photos of the six students on social media in frantic efforts to find them.
A pastor from Kiganjo, who saw the photo, reported having seen several young girls in her neighbourhood in a house with two men.
The pastor, he said, contacted the local chief and police officers before giving the parents directions to the estate.
“When we got there, three of the girls, including my daughter, had locked themselves inside the house and police had to break down the door,” the parent said.
The parent said three others had already been employed as househelps in the neighbourhood but police traced them with the help of the other girls.
The parent said the house in which their daughters were belonged to a young man from their village who worked as a casual labourer, but was not at home at the time.
“We were shocked when neighbours informed us our daughters stayed holed up in the house during the day, but at night they were taken away by men,” the parent said.
The parent now wants police to arrest the boda boda operators who ferried the girls from the village.
“My girl is normally quiet and sharp. She does not leave home and is always studying. I’m afraid if the boda boda operators are not arrested, they will continue to negatively influence her and the others,” the parent said.