The director of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations recently announced that students convicted of crimes will have the offences permanently reflected in their records. This was reiterated by Education CS Amina Mohamed, who said burning schools is a crime and it will be reflected in the guilty students’ certificates of good conduct in future. The statement follows an increase in the number of school fires allegedly set because students’ fear exams. The threat may seem like a good way of deterring crime in school. However it goes against children’s rights at the global and regional level, one of which is keeping children’s records confidential. The Children’s Act 2001 guarantees a child accused of an offence privacy at all proceedings. In the juvenile justice system, children’s cases are heard in camera, and their identities are concealed. According to the law, children are not referred to as accused and those sentenced are committed to rehabilitation rather than punishment. The Act further spells out measures on how deal with a child in conflict with law, which ensures they are not criminalised. Criminalising children goes against the principle of the best interests of the child guaranteed in Article 53 of the Constitution. It states, “A child’s best interests are of paramount importance in every matter concerning the child.” Certificates of good conduct are issued every year and it will be not in the best interest of an individual to use records from when they were children. Research shows that during adolescent years the majority of people make uninformed decisions, which they later regret. This should not be used against them when they have matured and reformed. I think the burning of schools is more than an exam issue. It is as a result of a build-up of issues in schools and the student body, which society has not dealt with. This may include the unrealistic expectation for children to achieve the unattainable ‘A’ grade. Another is poor psychosocial support for high schoolers, mostly adolescents experiencing hormonal imbalances resulting in mental health issues. Sadly, as a society, we have assumed all high schoolers don’t want to sit exams and therefore they are burning schools. Government should strengthen the system to identify and prevent such incidents before they occur. This includes implementing laws and policies on children. They include the Counsellors and Psychologists Act 2014, which has measures of ensuring holistic well-being in school, ensuring each school has a professional child psychologist and schools have activities that allow them to vent frustrations in a healthy way. The Psychosocial Support Guidelines of 2014, which has measures on how to deal with psychosocial issues of children in different age categories at different levels should be implemented. Criminalising children is dealing with symptoms instead of causes. The Education ministry and the DCI should look into ways they can work with their counterparts in the Department of Children’s Services to come up with long-term solutions and most important engaging children.  Social worker with Mtoto news