ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to target the 'big fish' in his fight against corruption. Mudavadi said the anti-graft war will only be won if the government targets the masterminds and weed them out of its system. He noted that the President's legacy will be soiled by the rampant corruption if it is not eradicated completely. "The President has to face corruption head on or his legacy will be compromised," Mudavadi said. Read: Stop arresting proxies and go for the big fish – NASA The National Youth Service, Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline Company and the National Cereals and Produce Board are the latest to be hit by mega scandals with the loss of public funds running into billions of shillings. Senior officials have since been arrested and charged in court over the scandals in a renewed war on corruption spearheaded by the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji. The soft-spoken DPP has promised to leave no stone untouched and the president has said no one, including his brother if found guilty, should be spared. Mudavadi reiterated his recent remarks that he is willing to support the war against corruption and asked the President to sustain it to the end to save tax payers' money. The Nasa co-principal was speaking on Saturday at Kiria-ini Catholic church in Mathioya, Murang'a County during a burial service. Also see: Prosecute 'big fish' to win corruption war, AG Paul Kihara tells EACC Mudavadi also hinted that he will be on the presidential ballot in 2022. "I came here in 2013 seeking your votes and you nicknamed me 'Macharia'. I will be coming back soon to ask for your support," he said. ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani on his part said the party is focusing on strengthening its structures and will front Mudavadi as its presidential candidate. "I want to confirm that our party will be on the ballot in 2022 and we will be a force to reckon with," Lunani said. Two days ago, Mudavadi said his party will not be leaving Nasa and asked his co principals not to withdraw from the coalition. His remarks are, however, a stuck opposite of Ford Kenya party leader and fellow Nasa co-principal Moses Wetang'ula who has termed Nasa as a dead coalition, saying his party is ready to jump ship. Read: NASA not dead despite tiffs, Mudavadi answers Wetang’ula The two leaders have for some time been courting the idea of merging their parties to form one political outfit. ANC Secretary General Barrack Muluka and Ford Kenya deputy party leader Bonny Khalwale were to lead the team to spearhead the merger. On his part, Othaya MP Mugambi Gichuki said corruption is hampering development and affecting Kenyans' lives negatively. He cited the President's directive to halt new government projects until all initiated ones are completed as part of the efforts to stem corruption. "The president is trying everything possible to fight corruption even though it will affect Kenyans because classrooms have to be constructed in schools," he said. Read: Mudavadi hints at merger between ANC and Ford Kenya More: Ford Kenya, ANC merger plan signals NASA collapse Click here for the latest political news