Even before the cement on the foundation stone laid by Deputy President William Ruto in Kakamega county recently for the construction of a medical training college dried, the project, like a hundred others commissioned by him and other political players, ran into headwinds. Amid clapping of hands and ear- to- ear smiles from the local leaders happy that their support for the DP was finally paying dividends, Ruto told the meeting that the college would start admitting its first batch of medical students in January 2019. But none other than President Uhuru Kenyatta himself threw a spanner into the works, bringing the talk of the town ‘development projects’ to a screeching halt. I guess the leaders whose areas have been painted red with bonga point projects are no longer in a celebratory mood. The President’s directive took effect immediately, shrivelling their hopes and putting the DP’s generous rewards to those who support him in total jeopardy. The President’s directive is healthy for the country but it is crippling for his deputy’s dwindling 2022 presidential dreams. Unfinished projects dot the landscape. Why? Because they were just political carrots for campaigns. Someone had to stop the DP and others in their tracks somehow in order to focus wholly on the Big Four agenda. The DP had made it his responsibility to decide who gets the lion’s share of the national cake. He has been exploiting the politics of carrot and stick to buy loyalty and support from leaders across the country. Woe unto politicians who are not in his bandwagon; development projects earmarked for their areas risk suffering from engineered setbacks such as sudden lack of funds or redirection to areas where MPs or governors have thrown their weight behind Number Two’s 2022 dreams. This selective doling out of scarce resources to politically supportive regions encourages corruption, individual-worship and most of all tilts development, leaving us with lopsided projects. By this I mean that areas where political leaders are not supportive of the DP could find themselves without roads, hospitals or industries. They will always be sidelined when government plans its development. Ruto’s July 22 visit to the Coast was the tenth in less than 40 days. Surprisingly he visited counties and constituencies of MPs or governors singing his favourite 2022 chorus. A little over a month ago, the head of state was riled by his deputy’s charm offensive throughout the country as he sought support from every Tom, Dick and Harry who cared to listen him. Thinking that by reprimanding him over his early 2022 campaigns, veiled as meet-the-people tours-cum development launches, could slow him down, the President found out that he was playing a guitar to a goat. While in Mombasa recently, Ruto indicted that as the country’s CEO, his duties include leading commissioning development projects in the country. In other words, he was calling Uhuru’s bluff in ordering that he stops his frequent campaign tours, which he aptly called kutangatanga (roaming around aimlessly). The DP and his men are allowed to visit anywhere they want but not at the expense of the Big Four agenda and the Building Bridges Initiative. His visits should not stand in the way of peace and tranquility cultivated and watered by the Uhuru-Raila handshake, which has caused bad blood in the ruling party. A sage once said, “Life is like music. It must be composed by ear, feeling and by rule.” It is never too late for Ruto to go back to the drawing board and work on a new approach to his 2022 dreams because they are valid. Politically speaking, Ruto’s back is to the wall. But in spite of his political ambitions hanging in the balance, there is a saving grace if he humbles himself and listens to advice.