The National Assembly has extended the vetting of nominees to the SRC by 14 days, citing the need for public views and their recess. At a sitting on Wednesday, legislators also passed a motion to extend the time of consideration of possible chairs and members of the Commission on Administrative Justice (CAJ). William Cheptumo, chairperson of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee, noted that the extension will allow members of the public to submit their views on the suitability of nominees. "This house is going for recess starting tomorrow (Thursday). Standing orders dictate that the two committees conclude the matters within 21 days," the Baringo North MP said while moving the motion. Cheptumo further noted that the KRA, DCI and EACC had not responded to letters on clearing nominees. "It is only fair that we allow the house to go to recess, which falls within the timeliness of the vetting process, so that members of the public can present their views which will play a key role in the vetting." The MPs further agreed that the extension will allow the approval of people committed to significantly reducing public expenditure in all sectors. President Uhuru Kenyatta nominated former Kenya Power CEO Ben Chumo as chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC). Former Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju was nominated as CAJ chair, and Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndungu and Washington Opiyo as members. If successful, Chumo will take over from Sarah Serem whose term ended last December. Kajuju will succeed Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo who quit to join politics. Read: Uhuru nominates Kenya Power ex-CEO Ben Chumo as SRC chair There was a heated debate when Majority Leader Aden Duale led MPs in accusing Serem's team of undermining the legislative arm of government. Duale said that in the last give years, the commission "felt its existence was for the Judiciary and ignored MPs". "The SRC is a commission that must be dealt with when all members are sober. In the last five years, they discriminated against us and other arms. It felt as if the SRC's existence was for the Judiciary. We must dissect, diagnose and do referrals where necessary to have a product that all Kenyans can be proud off," said Duale, who is Garissa Town MP. Duale, however, asked MPs to avoid regional, ethnic and partisan interests when vetting the nominees. His sentiments were echoed by Minority leader John Mbadi (Suba South) who castigated the commission for putting a lot of focus on reducing the salaries of MPs. Mbadi said it was ironic that the commission, for instance, allowed CSs and PSs to get house allowances and "roam in government-fueled cars yet MPS who need to move around constituencies were subjected to loans and mortgages". "It is laughable that MPs are put at number 43 in the pecking order and graded in terms of academic qualifications. This is an opportunity to fix the commission for it to be responsive enough to the rising public expenditure," he said. Click here for the latest political news