A Mombasa court has summoned regional Anti-Terror Police Unit head Charles Ogeto over a case on terror-related charges against three girls. Chief Magistrate Evans Makori said Ogeto should appear
before the court to give clarifications on numerous issues. Makori said many under-doings threaten the fair trial of the girls who were charged three years ago. Ummulkheir Sadri, Khadija Abdulkadir and Halima Adan are accused of being members of terror group al Shabaab. They were jointly charged in 2015 but denied the charges. They stayed in custody until April 2017 where they were resealed
on bond. Maryam Aboud was the fourth suspect until her death last month due to cancer. More on this: Four women charged with recruiting for al Shabaab Read more: Four women deny plans for attack Makori said Ogeto should assure all the parties that they are safe to proceed with the matter without interference from his
officers. After a hearing last week, the accused were re-arrested and
briefly detained by police. Two of them were later released while Adan was ferried to
Nairobi. On Monday, state counsel Eugene Wangila told the court that Adan is expected to face new charges in MIlimani on Tuesday. Wangila said police had been granted 10 days to investigate
her on terror links. The prosecutor further said the ATPU was probing allegations that the girl received large sums of money. He said police suspect that the money was used to fund terror activities in the country. But defense counsel Chacha Mwita alleged underhand dealings and threats to the defence and the court. Mwita told the court that unknown people had been using the
media to accuse him of colluding with Adan for her sister to impersonate and represent her in court. He said his client was in court on the day in question and that reports that her sister represented her were untrue. Chacha sought directions for CCTV recordings of June 21 and 22 to be preserved and not interfered with for use in court - to prove that Adan was there. He further informed the court that the state had disobeyed orders by a Milimani magistrate for his client to be produced
at a Mombasa court today. The case will be mentioned July 11. Click here for the latest political news