The government will buy more mobile maize driers to reduce losses in the coming harvest season. Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe said Kenya does not have enough equipment for farmers to dry their maize on time and this could lead to aflatoxin contamination. He said the country incurs losses of up to 30 per cent for maize and potatoes. “We currently face a challenge of how to manage tomatoes in Rumuruti, Lakikipa county, and green grams in Kitui county. In the past, our farmers have also had problems managing potatoes in Nyandarua, Nakuru and Narok areas,” Lesiyampe said. He spoke yesterday during the opening of the African Union and UN Food and Agriculture Organisation Post Harvest regional workshop in Nairobi. Lesiyampe said Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation has developed an aflasafe product to manage aflatoxin in maize and although this has helped, it has only reduced maize contamination by less than 10 per cent. Post-harvest losses among small-scale farmers are approximated to be at 30 per cent. The average loss in cereals is estimated at 10 per cent, 11.2 in fruits and eight in vegetables. These losses affect food availability, raw materials, income and job opportunities. Lesiyampe said county governments and colleges should partner to develop technology to reduce post-harvest losses. “Twenty to 30 per cent losses, particularly in cereals, is huge and we need to bring it down to five or ten percent for the country to be food secure,” he said. In November last year, the government set aside Sh200 million to help maize farmers dry their produce and achieve the required moisture content of 13.5 per cent. But some farmers complained of being charged Sh34 per moisture unit per bag at the National Cereals and Produce Board. “As we look into the future, the focus should be on implementing robust post-harvest interventions that ensure the continent achieves it PHL goals,” David Phiri, the FAO subregional coordinator, said. Betty Kibaara, the associate director of the Rockefeller Foundation in Africa, said more than 135,000 farmers have been trained on post-harvest losses and another 160,000 farmers have used technology to reduce it.