The Executive and Parliament are using the budget to manipulate the Judiciary, governors said on Friday. Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said an attack on the Judiciary is an attack on Kenyans. He said the Sh50 million allocated the Judiciary for repairs and construction of new courts is too little. “It would be in bad faith for Parliament and the Treasury to allocate the Judiciary a development budget of a meagre Sh50 million and expect judges and magistrates to deliver timely judicial services to Kenyans. Indeed, this action is unfair and misinformed,” Nanok said. Governors were responding to Chief Justice David Maraga’s protest that the Executive is starving them of funds, which might compromise justice delivery. “The Judiciary began construction of courts in all counties and significant progress has been achieved in this regard, with courts being opened in areas where none existed before,” they said. World Bank funding, under which 29 projects fall, will expire in December. Another 41 government-funded projects, including construction of Marsabit, Amagoro, Githogo and Hamisi courts are underway. Last year the government injected Sh2.6 billion and World Bank Sh11.5 billion under the Judicial Performance Improvement Project Loan facility, which started in 2013. Read:Drastic budget cuts will stall 70 Judiciary projects, Maraga warns The governors said with budget cuts, many projects might stall, thereby compromising access to justice for many Kenyans. “At the end, it is the citizens who will suffer,” Nanok said. The county chiefs said Kenyans have a right to justice, but they are being undermined by the state. “The Constitution also stipulates that in the exercise of judicial authority, the Judiciary shall be subject only to the Constitution and the law and shall not be subject to the control or direction of any person or authority,” they said. The governors said starving the Judiciary of funds is a tactic employed by the Executive to frustrate the rule of law. The council urged Parliament and the Treasury to reconsider their decision and to reinstate the Judiciary’s budget so it can deliver services. Also Read:Don't worry, we'll review budget, Ruto tells Judiciary Click here for the latest political news