Our political landscape is never short of surprises and recent events in the Jubilee camp are raising red flags. Is there trouble in paradise or why is the Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen deliberately and consistently contradicting or opposing government policy? Jubilee Party, the brainchild of Deputy President William Ruto, was formed to unite the TNA and URP wings in the run-up to the 2017 election and beyond. It was a special-purpose vehicle to propel the nominated party aspirant to the presidency in 2022. JP was designed to put all party members in a ‘straightjacket’ in preparation for a specific future event. It was part of the plan to rule Kenya continuously for 20 years. The August 8, 2017, General Election failed to pan out as planned. Indeed, it turned out to be an unmitigated disaster when the Supreme Court nullified it and ordered a fresh election due to irregularities. President Uhuru Kenyatta reacted with uncharacteristic anger and issued some unprintable epithets towards the person of the Chief Justice and the Supreme Court. NASA boycotted the repeat election in October and Jubilee got a walkover. Opposition leader Raila Odinga refused to recognise Uhuru as President and proceeded to swear himself in as the People’s President. The game-plan was to deny Uhuru legitimacy, something every president of any democratic state craves. The stand-off between the government and the opposition leader created severe tensions in the country, which was divided almost equally. It is during these testing times that Uhuru and Raila reached out to one another, culminating in the March 9 Building Bridges handshake at Harambee House which saw a cessation of hostilities by both parties. Raila openly recognised Uhuru as the duly elected President. For some yet to be explained reason, Ruto was kept out of the initial negotiations. To add insult to injury no one seems to know the framework of the handshake. To be fair, a committee to work on the same was constituted and mandated to report back in a year. In the meantime, Raila has been treated as royalty. He has been sent to world capitals to represent the President and has been welcomed by heads of state as ambassadeur extraordinaire and plenipotentiary. High commissioners have been instructed to receive him and escort him during the course of business. His nominees have been appointed as high commissioners and others to government and parastatals. All that would have been very well had some of his honchos not decided to take choice potshots at Ruto’s corner every so often. This has created the perception, whether real or imagined, that Raila is subtly but actively working for Ruto’s downfall. Raila’s newly elevated profile has not gone down very well with the DP’s corner. There is a general feeling that a man they fought so hard to defeat in polls should not now surreptitiously enjoy the trappings of power. That is perhaps why Murkomen has come out guns blazing. Everything to him, from the war on corruption to the personal lifestyle audits to the evictions in the Mau Forest, is deemed to be political mischief. It is odd when a man who professes to be learned turns matador and callously throws out challenges to the presidency. This modus operandi is not adding value to their cause. Whether there is a real threat or they are running away from their own shadows is open to conjecture. Raila and Ruto have been conspicuously silent, opting or preferring to act by proxy.