But why are Kenyans afraid of
this change or why do they continue to avoid this change? Interestingly enough,
the ten reasons I am going to give on why we should abandon this system are the
same that account for the reluctance of Kenyans to abandon this terrible
system. Now that sounds strange but it is true. Now, let us now begin to
navigate through these ten reasons. First, the presidential system
tends to encourage, nay institutionalise, tribalism. The kind of tribalism I am
referring to is the political one: One that lets an individual, or a group of
individuals, believe that when their tribesman is in power, “they” will eat or
get favours from government as opposed to other tribes or tribe who will be
equally deprived or discriminated against. This means further that, however bad
this system is to those “out of favour with the presidency”, they in turn swear
that “when their turn comes after they win the next election”, those who
persecuted them under “those others” presidency “will see!” Second, other than encouraging
this kind of “vengeful” tribal politics, it is also an inherently narcissistic
political system. Everybody who participates in the perpetually competitive
politics this system engenders is also perpetually at pains to ensure a win or
at pains to avoid possible pending defeat. Society, under this system, cannot
relax, yet all participants do not necessarily enjoy the payoffs of the system
when they access its presidential power. One wonders whether the president
himself ever relaxes to enjoy that power. Third, notwithstanding the lofty
policies the winning president espouses as legitimate grounds to power, it is
never tailored to systematically implement long-term development projects in
the interest of the nation. What is even worse is that any implementation of
such projects quite often suffers destruction as a result of short-term goals
important players in the system have. A good example is the standard gauge
railway and how the Swazuris of this world sabotaged its noble objectives by
loading on its debt bloated land purchases to finance their short-term goals of
primitive accumulation. How about the Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport Greenfield project? Sh4.5 billion has gone down the drain
without a single thing done at JKIA! In both cases, who is going to suffer? It
is the Kenyan taxpayer, who will pay the debts for an over-priced project in
one case, and no service rendered in the other. Yet some Kenyans don’t see
anything wrong here nor can they associate what is wrong with the awful system
of executive power we have adopted. Fourth, we decided in 2010 to
have a system similar to that of the US without necessarily realising that
their power of the Congress and of the Federal system of government is very
different from ours. Now we have non-elected Cabinet secretaries wielding
enormous powers at the behest of the presidency, and with very weak advisory
powers to rein in a presidency that goes rogue. The President himself can go
rogue. Under our present circumstances, the Cabinet would have no cautionary
powers over him since they are his appointees. The Deputy President can also go
rogue: again the Cabinet would be of no help to him. Parliament, in return,
with no elected person to answer questions on behalf of the Cabinet in that
august House is also rendered impotent. There is no wonder therefore that
elites have seen this system very attractive in institutionalising Executive
impunity in the service of primitive accumulation of the worst kind in our
times. Left to continue for long, Kenya’s future development is going to be so
compromised to this top heavy elite accumulation process that the division
between the haves and the have nots may be worse than that found in the
miserable island of Haiti. Fifth, any government formed
under such a system of government will always vie towards authoritarianism, not
democracy. For example, it is very difficult for a British Prime Minister to
travel to India and denounce her own intelligence service at home, while
praising the Indian Prime Minister to the skies. Donald Trump, however, finds
it very easy to denounce his own intelligence system and praise the Russian
president. In the case of Theresa May, such an act would easily lead to a vote
of no confidence. For Trump, it will lead to a few complaints here and there
but not much will happen. It is worse in Africa. A president can compel
Parliament overnight to change significant aspects of the law, giving him more
authoritarian powers. The public will have very little to do, even when the
courts declare such actions unconstitutional. Sixth, the basic requirement of
any democratic is that while the citizens freely elect their rulers, such leaders
need to subject themselves to the will of the people at all times. Such
processes of subjection are institutionalised in checks and balances in
government, the principle of the separation of powers, the rule of law and the
respect for human rights. Since presidential systems, by their very nature,
tend to be authoritarian, they are antithetical to the nurturing of democracy,
especially in emerging markets (read “developing countries”) such as ours. Yet,
it is this authoritarian nature of presidential authoritarian politics that
primitive accumulators and careerist elite politicians love. Such politicians
will, therefore, sing to the praises of democracy, while worshipping
presidential authoritarian politics at the same time. They are hypocrites
of the worst kind, devoid of any conscience. They are smooth talkers, who can
easily sell their mothers in law to hyenas dressed in sheep’s skins. Seventh, while liberalism to the
western minds means “a state that governs least”, to the mind of a person in a
developing society, a liberal state means a state that is considerate,
moderate, tolerant of diverse views, a midwife to a developing society
providing such useful things like education and health. Authoritarian
presidential states are antithetical to liberalism; they tend to deliver
development on their own terms. They are, again by their very nature,
paternalistic, even when they mean good. Their “goodness” is not liberating; it
tends to create a mentality of dependence, that of “serikali saidia.” A mentality
in which mature human beings are not given room, nor do they thrive to create
room, for individual and collective self reliance. The “harambee” culture is
hence deliberately nurtured in an authoritarian presidential system to
perpetuate this dependency syndrome as one of the ideological and political
weapons of making the ordinary citizen worship and not challenge unequal
economic and power relationships in society. Doing away with this system means
doing away with authoritarianism ans debilitating dependency. Eighth, this system may tend to
emulate and perpetuate what Ali Mazrui called “monarchical tendencies in
African politics.” Presidents, unlike Prime Ministers controlled by their
political parties and parliaments, tend to have the tendency of standing alone
above all leaders, expecting to be loved, nay worshipped, at all costs.
Monarchs, however, do not have term limits. Constitutions that impose term
limits on presidents tend to always be in conflict with presidents, who in turn
always tend to extend such term limits in favour of lifetime presidencies. To
nurture democracy and institutionalise good governance, parliamentary systems are
a thousand times more preferable in emerging markets to presidential systems. Ninth, presidential systems tend
to be “talent wasting” at times. Thus a young person, who becomes President at
35 years, where a two-term limit of five years each is the rule, is bound to
retire from politics at 45. This would not happen in a parliamentary system. In
Malaysia, for example, Mahathir Mohamed, 93, has come back to power. Parties
are crucibles from which competitive democratic elections are created.
Individual leaders only matter in so far as their political ambitions find
expression in the wider interest of the social forces that win elections.
Society is the poorer when such individuals cannot “rise up to the occasion” of
needed political leadership due to a law imposed on society by a poor system of
governance that presidentialism engenders. Finally, governments are created
to serve the people and not the other way round. There is a Christian song that
says: “Once to every man and nation comes a moment to decide; then it is the
brave man chooses while the coward stands aside.” The time has come for brave
Kenyans to choose true parliamentary democracy by discarding the present awful
presidential system, replete as it is with corruption, impunity, bad
governance, disrespect for human rights and an uncertain future. Here we are
talking about the system in which certain individuals may just be pawns in the
game. 