The issue of budgeting is very key and when we talk of the fundamental principle of separation of powers, the financial autonomy of the Judiciary is paramount. Budget cuts will impact negatively on the core operations of the Judiciary. You can clearly see budget allocation based on ongoing projects, some of which were going to impact positively on services, and as a result you can see that access to justice will be greatly impaired by dysfunctional courts. The government needs to review the whole issue of budgetary allocation and come up with a supplementary budget as soon as possible to ensure the Judiciary has adequate resources. The government needs to even audit the funds allocated to institutions to determine which ones are most important and actually allocate budgets based on service delivery. Institutions highly implicated in corruption and those that have been cash cows for corruption should receive the least allocation so that more money is allocated to institutions that actually work. Institutions will have to look for separate financing options to fund their activities without government coffers. It is quite unfortunate the Judiciary is one of the institutions greatly affected by budgetary cuts. In my view, the government needs to review this and issue a supplementary budget to allow the judiciary to function and deliver on its mandate. We need the government to explain why the Judiciary is so highly affected. The Judiciary has to function because it is one of those key institutions involved in the delivery of Justice. It is also important for the Judiciary now to rethink how they are going to fund themselves. We have a situation where the Judiciary collects a lot of money on behalf of the national government. Maybe it is high time the Judiciary executed its affairs independently so that we can have a Judiciary which collects money to fund its activities independent of government — as happens for other courts of international setup. The Vice President of the Law Society of Kenya spoke to the Star