The government has opposed plans to reintroduce corporal punishment in schools to curb unrest. The law on corporal punishment in schools in very clear so the government will not, and has no intention to, contravene it, Education CS Amina Mohamed said on Wednesday. Amina's stance came after a section of MPs demanded the reintroduction of this type of disciplinary action saying it will restore order in school. A fresh wave of chaos has hit at least 63 schools so far and has seen the indefinite closure of some and the arrest of students. Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo blamed parents and the government's 'treatment of students as if they are eggs" for the bad behaviour. Odhiambo said it is time for corporal punishment to be reintroduced for teachers to instill discipline in students. "We must first stop treating our children like eggs and ensure we have values. The kids must grow up knowing that what is right is rewarded and what is wrong punished," Odhiambo said. "If [people] burn a buildings or do something wrong, they must be caned. We need to give teachers power to punish these children." Details: Reintroduce caning to stem wave of student unrest, Gem MP asks state The MP's sentiments were echoed by Nyandarua woman representative Faith Gitau who said caning will reduce cases of unrest, which she linked to poor parenting. “Corporal punishment should be brought back to schools because there is too much indiscipline,” Gitau said. The Kenya National Union of Teachers has also backed calls for a return to caning, saying teachers cannot effectively deal with indiscipline because rules set by the Education ministry protect learners. The union is concerned that teachers can only teach without disciplining learners. Amina further said that the decision requires amendments by Parliament and that the ministry has nothing to do with this. "But on personal experience, corporal punishment should be the last option in our minds," she said. "There are other ways to discipline, engage and communicate with our children. For now, we don't know the red line so some teachers may take advantage [of the situation] to hurt the children." Read: Knut officials back reintroduction of caning to curb student unrest Also see: Caning students will ‘end schools unrest’ The minister also said schools have an important role to play in preventing unrest as they are the supervisory bodies that should be able to pick up early warning signs More on this: Schools have key role to play in preventing unrest, says CS Amina Click here for the latest political news