Karen Rothmyer, a renowned editor of renowned newspapers and weekly magazine, has written a unique book on Joseph Murumbi, unique in the sense that it is a hybrid of her analysis juxtaposed with Murumbi’s self-narratives. She is positive about Murumbi whose life, she asserts, is A Legacy of Integrity, but she does not flatter. In trying to make Murumbi human, rather than simply reciting his heroics, she brings out the contradictions and some of his shortcomings. What comes out is a man of ambivalence, working hard to be honest in the midst of rough politics, and struggling with his African or Goan identity. Murumbi had a prolonged cultural journey from a Zuzarte to a Murumbi and had three identity turning points that peaked at the outset of the Mau Mau War in 1952. First, his father, Peter Zuzarte, sent him to school in Goa, where things happened to disorient him from his Goan heritage. He received “rigorous Jesuit training”, other students made him racially conscious by calling him “nigger”, and his father showed up broke and broken hearted. Second, after returning to what had become Crown Colony and Protectorate of Kenya, he started transforming himself from being a Goan Zuzarte into a Maasai Murumbi. Third was his political transformation to become fully Murumbi, when he met Pio Gama Pinto and Jomo Kenyatta in 1952. As Murumbi, he made himself useful and struck a long lasting bond with Kenyatta. He was there at the Kapenguria trial, ensuring the suspects were comfortable. He supplied resources to Mau Mau fighters. He made a name for himself as a staunch anti-colonialist or a “dangerous agitator.” This is the man Kenyata, during the trial, sent to tell the Kenyan story to the outside world in Asia, Europe, and North America. The bond they struck would manifest itself at the time of Independence. Rothmyer tried to bring order and context in Murumbi’s narratives, the collection of memory interviews that were published in the 2016 A Path Not Taken. She cuts out repetitiveness, contextualizes happenings, and enriched analysis by adding the insights of different observers of Murumbi’s personality, politics, and cultural interests. Emma Pinto, wife of Murumbi friend Pio Gama Pinto, reportedly commented that Sheila used to chase away desperate Jojo when he came begging. Joyce Nyairo, Kenya’s leading cultural commentator, thought Murumbi’s African Heritage popularised the idea of the “Maasai market” to ordinary people, through which they could make money selling beads. Murumbi, historian Godfrey Muriuki believes, was “a role model of what a good Kenyan should be.” To journalist Joe Kadhi, however, Murumbi was a square peg in a round hole. This political square peg became the “heroic” Murumbi, who still guarded his privacy. He avoided the depth of Maasainess by failing to learn the Maasai language and yet he quickly picked up Italian in Somalia. His narratives mention Sheila Kaine, the English librarian he met at a dance in Mbiyu Koinange’s London house, but completely ignores his Somali wife and son, Cecilia and George (Jojo). He and Sheila danced into “their own complete world” that was oblivious of Cecilia and (Jojo), even when he returned to Kenya with Kenyatta in 1962 having become, Rothmyer wrote, “a polished speaker, an urbane Londoner … an acquaintance of world leaders from Nehru to Nkrumah [and] ... who understood … the politics of Africa and the world.” Ignoring wife and son, contradicts an assertion that Murumbi “cared deeply about poor people” and instead exposed an aspect of what Rothmeyer termed Murumbi’s “heartlessness.” Rothmyer could have looked deeper than she did into the politics of Murumbi’s “heartlessness”, as probable part of hard politics at Independence. Since Somalia’s coveting of Kenyan land led to Kenya-Somali tensions and the Shifta War, the fact that Cecilia was a Somali, who had additional children with a Somali national, was a political as well as a personal factor. Clinging to English and possessive Sheila, it would appear, and helped Murumbi not to seem wavering where Kenya’s interests were concerned. His loyalty to Kenyatta, Kenya, and Kanu, he reportedly assured the president in 1966, “was firm and unshaken and cannot be undermined.” There also are cracks in the Murumbi armour or ideal. Rothmyer noted Murumbi’s tendency to adjust memory long after the fact. In his narratives about the 1950s in England, for instance, he implies he was an anti-colonial lone ranger by virtually ignoring the activities of other Kenyans such as Mbiyu Koinange and Tom Mboya, whom the Anglo-Americans were grooming as a new African leader. Although Charles Njonjo was not anti-colonial, he was in England and became a key player in post-colonial Kenyan politics. Given the 1960 First Lancaster House Conference nearly collapsed because of Koinange, Murumbi’s silence on that development, and the roles Mboya and Odinga played, was telling. He did, however, observe the Odinga-Mboya rivalry with their big money from Moscow and Washington. While Odinga was generous with his money, Mboya was mean. Mboya, Murumbi observed, thought of people as commodities that he bought using his CIA money. Murumbi’s reputation hinges on his involvement in the establishment of Kenya’s post-colonial identity and the less than pleasant parting of company with Kenyatta. His narratives and Rothmyer’s analyses present Murumbi as reorganising Kanu but do not explain what happened to Mwai Kibaki, the official Kanu organising secretary. They portray an image of Murumbi as minister and vice president, and then quit on principles rather than condone growing irregularities. That is the image he wanted and the ideal that admirers would like to perpetuate. It was not quite that way; he was just on the losing side of an intense political debate on post-colonial Kenya’s future. His being appointed vice president after the ouster of Odinga, it appears, was on a holding capacity. He wanted to leave barely two months of being elevated to vice presidency!! Murumbi’s losing side in the political debate on Kenya’s future, the one that wanted to stress Kenya’s Mau Mau revolutionary legacy, was no match for the Mboya-Njonjo-Gichuru scheming line. In addition, as early as 1964, Attorney General Njonjo was reportedly threatening him regarding his foreign activities. The threats imply Murumbi was actually pushed out of the government in subtle ways. He had hurt Kenyatta by quitting to make Rothmans cigarettes. He, in the last days of December 1966, had hoped the President would tell him to stay, only for Kenyatta to turn his back and for Njonjo to quip, “you are finished Joe.” Then his cigarette making venture, trying to compete with the BAT, flopped in less than a year. Murumbi, Kenyatta, Njonjo and other Kenyan policymakers, Rothmyer observed, appeared sympathetic to the realities of Southern Africa and their militant rhetoric was for public consumption. She noted that as a cigarette maker, Murumbi’s “militancy” declined and he understood Malawi President Kamuzu Banda’s position. She quotes British High Commissioner Donald MacDonald wryly remarking in 1967, that Murumbi’s new views were “coloured by the fact that he is now a local head of Rothman’s tobacco company with important business connections with South Africa.” In contextualising Murumbi, Rothmyer captures the changing moods in post-colonial Kenya, from high hopes to deep despair over what would have been. He was symbolic of the high hopes and aspirations at the time of independence in the early 1960s, which dissipated due to the power intrigues of mid-1960s. As Kadu infiltrated Kanu, with some help from Cold War rivals in Washington/London and Moscow/Peking, pre-Independence allies in Kanu cannibalised each other. Pinto died, Mboya chased Odinga out of Kanu and Njonjo seemingly pushed Murumbi. By the time Mboya and JM Kariuki died in 1968 and 1975, disillusionment had replaced hope. Murumbi’s narratives repeatedly implied that someone in the government killed Pinto, Mboya, and JM but he does not say who he thought it was. He spent his post government time struggling to establish his African heritage and make African art popular among ordinary Kenyans, and then relapsed into despair as he watched his dreams wither. Rothmyer brings up what amounts to the tragedy of Joseph Murumbi. Vindicated long after death, he had his weaknesses and contradictions but he was also a well-meaning promoter and solid defender of Kenyan and African interests. He admired India’s Jawaharlal Nehru — but not Britain’s Harold Wilson — and was critical of both the West and the East in their Cold War confrontations as they affected Africa. He disliked communism, claimed to be socialistic, and behaved in capitalistic ways. Like Pinto, he was an anti-colonial “race” revolutionary but not a Marxist type of class revolutionary. He, however, Rothmyer concludes, left a legacy of integrity that is currently appealing due to the challenges confronting Kenya. Although Rothmyer never set out to give a detailed account of Murumbi’s life, private and public, her book gives a pretty balanced and generally positive presentation. It is worth reading and internalising its message of uprightness that Murumbi, who became forgotten, symbolised. He had hoped the government would turn his Muthaiga home into an African Studies Institute only to have land grabbers share the prime plot. He died a disappointed man in 1990, watching his lifetime work destroyed and hardly appreciated. Kisumu Governor Peter Anyang Nyong’o disappointingly remarked to me that not a single street in Nairobi is named in honour of Murumbi and that something should be done about it. Rothmyer’s book is a starting step in the right direction to honour Murumbi and his “legacy of integrity.”  Author: Karen Rothmyer Publisher: Zand Graphics Price: 1,500 Available in all good bookshops     