Parliament is waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta to forward a new nominee for the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairperson. Last week, the National Assembly endorsed the Finance committee report. It found former Kenya Power managing director Ben  Chumo did not satisfy the constitutional threshold on leadership and integrity. Read: I’m a man of integrity, Chumo tells SRC vetting team amid graft charges Chumo defended his suitability to serve as the SRC chairman, saying he is a man of integrity. He said the graft charges he is facing over the loss of Sh4.5 billion in the procurement of faulty transformers occurred after he left the company. “There was no single case that arose during my stay at KPLC and I look back with a lot of pride to that particular service,” Chumo said. Chumo served at Kenya Power for 32 years, rising through the ranks from human resource manager, chief human resource manager to chief executive officer. He told the committee his networth has grown to Sh212 million through investments and dairy farming. “I never had any incident that undermined my integrity. Over the 32 years, I made investments across the country,” Chumo said.  The committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo said Chumo does not satisfy the threshold on integrity, having been charged for economic crimes over alleged acquisition of faulty transformers. More: MPs reject Ben Chumo's nomination as SRC chair over integrity It is unclear if the shortlisting will start afresh or President Uhuru Kenyatta will pick whoever came second in the interviews conducted by the selection panel chaired by Mary Kimonye. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said Uhuru can forward another name to Parliament for vetting. “There is a law in place that allows the President to submit the name directly to Parliament,” he said on the phone. Apart from Chumo, the Kimonye-led panel shortlisted Jane Mutua, Peter ole Nkuraiyia, Abdirizak Nunow, Fred Odhiambo, Okuku Nakitari, Simeon Pkatey, Irene Gikemi, Patrick Ngumi, Samuel Osoro, Ephraim Ngare and Cherop Mengich. The law says the SRC should consist of a chairperson, one person each nominated by the Parliamentary Service Commission, Public Service Commission, Judicial Service Commission, National Police Service Commission, Teachers Service Commission, the Defence Council and the Senate on behalf of the county governments. Representatives from an umbrella agency representing trade unions, employers, a joint forum of professional bodies, the Treasury CS, AG and Public Service CS also sit in the commission. More: Kenya Power ex-CEO Ben Chumo to be charged on corruption claims Click here for the latest political news