"My husband will be back. it has been a difficult one year and it doesn't seem like a year, we think he will come back," these were the words of the wife to the late IEBC IT Manager Chris Msando, Eva Buyu . In an emotional memorial service on Saturday, Buyu recalled how the news of her husband's death were broken to him saying it is an experience that will be erased from her memory. "At a time like this his body had been found, picked and dropped in the mortuary........... And we were at home waiting and looking for a husband, a father and brother..... he was a diligent soldier who stood for the truth," Buyu narrated. She went on to say, "And that truth they tried to shut but they can't. Yes you shut his body but he will live on in many many more people who will come up with more innovative technology". The family took issues with the government with how it has delayed investigating the perpetrators behind the brutal murder. Msando was killed just a few days to the d-day of the 2017 general election. His body was found dumped in a thicket two days after the IEBC announced his disappearance. Autopsy report had revealed that Msando was strangled to death before his body was dumped in Muguga forest. "He died from strangulation and had incisions on his right arm but the rest of his body was intact," government pathologist Johansen Oduor said. Read:Chris Msando was strangled to death, postmortem reveals His sister Pamela Msando said the late did not deserve to die. Pamela said, "He was a mere public servant. In fact a junior officer at IEBC who aught not to have died. We have been crying for justice to prevail.....we are still crying and praying". She said it is unfortunate the government has gone mute on the matter, Church turned their backs and everyone else involved perhaps forgotten about it. His mother questioned why the government blocked the US and UK based investigative firms from assisting with investigations as they had offered to help. "Letters have been delivered to the two embassies to pick up on the investigations and we ask the government to kindly allow them investigate so that we can at least get to know what killed my son," she said. Read:Mourners criticise state for delay in probing Chris Msando’s murder "We leave the matter with the government for now and hope that someday we shall get the closure of what really happened," Buyu said. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights Vice Chairperson George Morara called on the government to hasten the investigations saying the country should not get into another election without revealing the perpetrators. If not how would the commissioners at IEBC prepare for the next election knowing it is a matter of life and death," Morara questioned. His sentiments were echoed by ODM Sec General Edwin Sifuna who said if Msando was a weak person, perhaps his tormentors would have gotten more than they asked for. Also Read:Chris Msando's widow pleads for 'any job anywhere' for their children's sake Click here for the latest political news