The need for accountability in managing county cash yesterday dominated the Commission on Revenue Allocation’s discussions of a new formula for sharing funds. The CRA, chaired by Jane Kiringai, met National Assembly committee chairpersons and the Budget and Appropriations team at a Nairobi hotel. The MPs poked holes in the current formula, faulting the eight per cent and 45 per cent allocation based on area and population. Some legislators said the two parameters are discriminatory, while others proposed that the 45 per cent allocation based on population be increased to 60 per cent. “We want to review the formula to have more equality and equity in sharing resources,” Budget committee vice chair Moses Lessonet said. The CRA is expected to meet senators today. It will also meet the governors and other players. The existing formula will expire this financial year. The anticipated five-third formula will be used in the 2019-20 and subsequent financial years to allocate cash. Read:Mutula sharply differs with MP on county cash The population parameter at 45 per cent provides that a county commanding a large population requires more services such as hospitals and schools. The eight per cent for land area is for administration cost of a county based on its size. The 18 per cent parameter for poverty will tackle inequality in development and 26 per cent basic equal share will finance common functions. The fiscal effort aspect at two per cent funding optimises revenue collection potential. The development parameter is at one per cent. “There is need to align the horizontal revenue allocation formula to the method used to allocate revenue vertically or nationwide,” CRA research director Linnet Oyugi said. Health committee chairperson Sabina Chege proposed that the new formula have a provision that ensures money is allocated to specific county sectors such as health to promote accountability. “Curently, funds disbursed, for instance to health, don’t go to the sector. Instead, it’s used to build roads and meet other functions because governors think they are more popular,” the Murang’a woman rep told the Star on the phone. “You can’t give blanket Sh10 billion to a county hoping it will budget. They end up sending money wherever they want. Accountability among governors has been a major problem. That’s why they oppose summonses by the Senate.” National Assembly Minority leader John Mbadi rejected Chege’s proposal to have the cash assigned to the county dockets at the national level. He said such a move would go against the spirit of devolution. Read:Shelve 'unfair' county revenue sharing formula, MP Lessonet tells CRA “It’s the work of county assemblies and executives to allocate funds to various sectors. If we do this, we’ll be controlling and micromanaging the counties,” Mbadi told the Star. He said the Constitution provides that executive powers be exercised at the national and county levels. Mbadi proposed that the third formula of allocating county funds be performance-based so governors who use money well get additional funds, while those who don’t have their budgets slashed. But Chege retorted, “I’ve seen this work in Brazil. We just want accountability. With no accountability and evaluation, people will continue stealing.” Also Read:MPs reject Rotich proposal to reduce counties budget Click here for the latest political news   