The 14-member handshake committee will soon table its report with how to tackle corruption top among the recommendations. NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday said the team has been holding secret meetings to deliberate on issues affecting the nation. “The task force will come into public limelight soon and table
its work, with the first being on how to fight corruption,” Raila said. He was speaking at Kanyimach Secondary School in Rongo during the burial of Migori senator Ben Oluoch Okello. “We [Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta] have been working closely
with the task force,”
Raila said. He said corruption is the main cause of conflicts among communities hence denying citizens development. Read: Handshake committee gazetted, given a year to present report Also read: MPs failing Kenya in anti-graft war - Raila Raila said corruption will be dealt with "properly", citing the spirit of handshake and Uhuru's sake for a legacy. Raila said the handshake has given renewed impetus to the war on corruption, saying institutions mandated to fight the vice have been “energized and
are working well.” “Dealing with corruption is the main agenda of the task
force committee. Institutions dealing with corruption are already working. We have faith in the institutions,” Raila said. He said it was unfortunate that Parliament has chosen not to join the fight against graft and was siding with suspects who “everybody know are involved in corruption.” “It is like sending a hungry dog to chase a thief carrying
meat, the thief drops the meat and the dog lets him to go,” Raila said. The ODM boss asked elected leaders to be at the forefront in the war on corruption saying they were being paid “huge salaries." He said MPs should not be the ones undermining fight against graft. “Several legislators in this funeral should go and tell their
colleagues and assembly leaders that Kenyans are watching,” Raila said. “Parliament called sugar barons and sanitised them when the DCI and Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission were in the process of arresting and prosecuting them. Parliament don’t
have the investigative powers and should let the institutions do their work,” Raila said. Raila promised to help President Kenyatta build a legacy of a united Kenya and push through his
development agenda. Mourners urged the government to put in place measures
to curb cancer. Senator Oluoch died of cancer. An estimated 5,000 Kenyans seek cancer
treatment outside the country, most of them in India. Related: I'm ready for lifestyle audit, no crisis in ODM - Raila Click here for the latest political news