Sharp differences have rocked the writing of the final sugar report by members of the joint committee investigating poisonous sugar imports. The two committees of Agriculture and Trade have been probing the sugar issue for four weeks and their first report was rejected and roundly condemned by the House as vague and unhelpful. It did not state whether sugar was safe for consumption. Yesterday the Star learnt that members of the two committees could not agree on a number of findings, including whether the sugar tested on various days from different locations contained heavy metals like mercury. While some members insisted on recommending that the sugar imported was safe, others insisted that they had to adopt various test reports indicating there was mercury in some sugar. Both groups threatened to write their own reports, contradicting each other. A section of MPs also openly accusing their colleagues in the committee chaired by Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Adan Haji (Mandera East) of trying to tone down the report to protect some interests. The MPs expressed disappointment with what they termed slow progress in finalising the report, even as Kenyans waited for the verdict on whether the sugar was contaminated or not. Read:Fireworks over sugar as MPs reject report Three factions have emerged from the 36-member joint team, raising questions about the authenticity and credibility of the final report to be presented before the House next week. The committee was to present its report on Tuesday this week but sought one more week to finish its work. The Star has learnt that one faction is now pushing to engage an independent body to carry out tests, after conflicting results from two government agencies were presented before the committee. The Government Chemist's preliminary results dated July 9 confirmed presence of mercury in sugar impounded in Bungoma and at Moi Airbase in Nairobi — contradicting earlier results from Kenya Bureau of Standards. Kebs tests detected only copper and lead in samples seized from Eastleigh in Nairobi and Ruiru in Kiambu. The independent testing, however, would mean a log wait for what is hoped to be a conclusive report. A second group is said to be keen on using the available documents so far tabled before the committee to make a decision The third group — which appeared to be holding sway — is said to want the agencies that gave conflicting results to appear before the team and defend their findings. The committee has today invited Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, his PS Karanja Kibicho, Government Chemist Ali Gakweli, and the multi-agency on contraband goods to shed more light findings of mercury by the Government Chemist. The finding, which has divided the House team, reinforces claims by Matiang’i that some samples of the imported sugar contained mercury, lead and copper. Makueni MP Dan Maanzo yesterday told Star of a spirited attempt to give a clean bill of health to the seized sugar, in total disregard of test results from the Government Chemist confirming mercury content. “If the report indicates no mercury in the sugar ,then I will write a dissenting opinion immediately,” Maanzo threatened. Maanzo claimed there is a cover-up plot of sugar barons by some unnamed members of the committee to give clean bill of health to the 1.3 million tonnes seized. Read:Politics useless in war on illegal sugar trade, Kiraithe says after Duale claims The Makueni MP demanded the whole consignment be condemned, alleging that 60 per cent was contaminated. The Government Chemist yesterday failed to appear before the committee to formally present its findings, a moved that offended the lawmakers. Some took Kanini to task to explain why the Government Chemist was told to go back to the office, even after making his way to Parliament for the sitting. “The Government Chemist was here and they were told to go to the Ministry of Interior. We are going in circles over this, something is not adding up,” Machakos woman representative Joyce Kamene said. There was heated debate, with members demanding the final report based on the documents so far received. “We have the relevant documents. I wonder why we are postponing making decisions when we have all the relevant documents," Konoin MP Brighton Yegon said. “I can feel the disappointment of members because we are going round in circles,” Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati. said The push and pull in the committee gives credence to the allegations of MPs being influenced by the subjects of their investigations, casting doubt on their ability to get to the bottom of grave national issues. The House leadership — Speaker Justin Muturi, Majority leader Aden Duale and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi — had earlier voiced concern that MPs have turned House committees into money-making opportunities. The bribery claims emerged when the committee released a progress report on July 5, ruling out presence of mercury in the contraband sugar, a finding that was pronounced a cover-up by some lawmakers. Also Read:MPs summon four ministers over contraband sugar saga “We have heard rumors that, like in the sugar thing, one witness is said to have given some members Sh300,000 each. We are told also that another officer gave some MPs, who are not even members of the committee, Sh500,000 each to go and defend them,” Mbadi said last month. The joint committee on Agriculture and Trade was tasked by the House to investigate claims of importation of contraband sugar, tax evasion and to confirm if the sugar in the market contains mercury, copper and lead. Kebs has so far tested 1,266,351 bags. Only 157,392 bags met the standard. The rest failed on moisture content, yeast and moulds, colour, total viable count and polarisation. According to Kebs acting MD Moses Ikiara, there was no mercury in the seized sugar and only copper and lead were detected in sugar impounded in Eastleigh and Ruiru. Ikiara also confirmed that the agency surveillance in 41 counties revealed some sugar in the market is unfit for human consumption Out of the 207 samples, 53 samples were tested and 15 failed to meet the standards for moisture content, colour, polarisation, yeast and mould and total viable count. Read:Sugar probe: I can’t confirm sugar has mercury, Matiang’i tells MPs Click here for the latest political news   