For all their dominance of Kenyan football in the last five years, Gor Mahia have under-achieved when it comes to the country’s foremost knockout football tourney now known as the SportPesa Shield. The 10-time champions of the tournament, most famously known the Moi Golden Cup, have not won the event since 2012 and have only reached one final since 2013 when they were beaten by current holders AFC Leopards. Today, Dylan Kerr’s side have the opportunity to right those statistics and book a place in the last eight of the competition when they tackle fellow top flight side Posta Rangers in the second of a double header at Kasarani. The last match up between the two sides was in the league last month when K’Ogallo thumped the mailmen 5-0, a result that defied Sammy Omollo’s renowned defensive ethos. Posta will look to take advantage of any lapse in concentration for Gor who have one eye on this weekend’s return leg clash against Yanga in the CAF Confederations Cup, where a win would guarantee them a place in the quarter-finals of the competition. Kerr will no doubt rest several players as he seeks to keep his squad fresh and firing on all fronts. The likes of Cercidy Okeyo and Bernard Ondiek as well as Boniface Omondi may get a run out against the mailmen and as they have done so many times in the league, they might still prove too strong for their opponents. Playing a ‘seconds string’ is, however, the only hope Posta will carry going into the clash. Omollo with the league title now beyond him, will field his strongest available side with Kennedy Otieno and Gershon Likonoh leading their attack with the support of Dennis Mukaisi. Defending champions Leopards will be the first team out when they face Mwatate FC. Ingwe’s wait for league title will stretch beyond two decades but their performances in the cup competition has been exemplary, winning twice in the last five editions. This opportunity is one coach Rodolfo Zapata will not be willing to let slip as he seeks to build squad capable of challenging their bitter rivals for the league next season. Undoubtedly, the Argentine tactician will name a strong side against the third tier side with Nigerian Alex Omorochal set to earn his first start fo the club. Vincent Oburu, who has fell down the pecking order in Leopards attack, is another player who will likely earn a starting berth as Ingwe look set seal a place in the last eight. Already Tusker, Kariobangi Shraks, Sofapka, Ulinzi Stars, FC Police and River Plate have booked quarter final places.