Six hundred students from Turkana will join Kenya Medical Training College campuses across the country. In a statement on Monday, KMTC chairman Philip Kaloki said the move was in line with the Big 4 agenda aiming to achieve universal health care coverage. “Each of the 30 wards will get an opportunity to have 20 students admitted to any of the KMTC campuses spread across the country to train in any of the 18 courses offered by the College,” said KMTC. “We want to ensure that in the next four years we increase training of health professionals to help the Government achieve Universal Health Coverage Goals by 2022,” Kaloki said. Kaloki said this would benefit the locals and ensure the area is not left behind in achieving the government’s agenda. “This is part of an affirmative action to bring Turkana County at par with other counties in the area of human resource for health development.” Kaloki also thanked the county government for contributing to the expansion of the Lodwar campus hosting 200 students. “The Turkana government under Governor Josphat Nanok has spent Sh27 million for the construction of hostels at Lodwar Campus with a capacity of 200 students,” said KMTC. The campus also received a bus funded by the World Bank for the Community Nursing programme. The bus was among eight others flagged off by Health PS Peter Tum last week. Turkana Director of Medical Services Gilchrist Lokoel said 400 graduates from KMTC campuses had been employed within the county to serve all 228 health facilities. Deputy President William Ruto, while visiting Kakamega on Friday, said the government was investing in KMTCs to ensure the country gets adequate health professionals. “KMTC through the students it trains is critical in ensuring that we get adequate health professionals to help us ensure achievement of Universal Health Coverage goals by 2022,” said Ruto. Ruto launched the construction of KMTC Kakamega Campus which the government will allocate Sh40million. Read; State launches Sh1b community health nursing programme Click here for the latest political news 