Junior officers of Laikipia county have been given until end of today to vacate government houses or be forcefully evicted. The county has ordered the junior staff to move and pave way for their seniors.
Most of the employees ordered to vacate have lived in the houses for decades. They were employees of the defunct Laikipia County Council.
A 14-day notice to vacate ends today. The county wants to give the 28 houses of two bedrooms and above to its senior officers.
Housing and Urban Development executive Joseph Shuel told the tenants the houses will be undergoing renovations.
A letter, seen by the Star, indicates the houses will be allocated to senior government officers, including advisers, after renovation.
The senior officers have previously complained of lack of houses.
Shuel said the county is facing a challenge in accommodating advisors and senior staff in Laikipia East subcounty.
The estates to be affected include Kenyatta (11 units), Ngei (six units), Lagoon (six units) and Asian Quarters (five units).
“We want to renovate these houses to make them habitable by identified senior officers in our transitory headquarters in Nanyuki town,” Shuel said.
The staff said the move is discriminatory because they have been paying rent as required.
Under the council, they catered for the renovations.
“It is not even humane for the county government to give us 14 days to vacate. Where do they expect us go in such a short time?” said an employee who did not want to be named for fear of victimisation.
Shuel said the tenants can write back to the county requesting for more time or go to court to challenge the move. “But they will have to eventually vacate,” he said.
Shuel said most of the occupants are non-staff who inherited the houses from their fathers and grandfathers.
The parents worked with the previous regimes before the creation of county government.
The county plans to put up 500 units of affordable houses at its Yard Estate in Nanyuki town. It has already written a proposal to the World Bank for funding.        