JAMES MURIMI/ Marginalised counties could get more resources if the National Assembly passes a proposed bill. The Equalisation Fund Bill, 2018, seeks to establish a board to administer the fund and accelerate its rollout. Sponsor of the bill William Kamket wants local  committees established in each ward to identify key projects for funding. “Enactment of the bill will reduce bureaucratic red tape that exists with regard to the administration of the fund currently domiciled in the National Treasury,” the bill states. The Tiaty MP says the model for administering the fund will accelerate its rollout for the benefit of residents who “continue to suffer on the fringes”. The fund will be used in provision of water, building of roads and health facilities and installing electricity in marginalised areas as identified by the Commission on Revenue Allocation. According to the bill, chairperson of the board will be appointed by the President. He must be a person from the said counties and must be vetted by the National Assembly. The chairperson shall hold office for a non-renewable term of six years and the board shall manage and disburse the cash to the wards. In May, President Uhuru Kenyatta assented to the Equalisation Fund Bill that would see 14 counties categorised as marginalised areas. The categorisation qualifies the counties for a share of the fund. Turkana will get Sh1.05 billion, the largest share of the fund, followed by Mandera at Sh967.6 million and Wajir with Sh929.8 million. Other counties that are allocated huge sums of the funds include Marsabit (Sh886.2 million), Samburu (Sh869.7 million) and Tana River (Sh859 million). The fund, which has a time frame of 20 years since the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010, is meant to fund water, electricity, road and health projects in the marginalised regions. Mandera governor Ali Roba has since threatened to move to court to block the sharing of the funds with counties that were not initially gazetted as marginalised. The new counties include Baringo, Kajiado, Bomet, Kitui, Elgeyo Marakwet and Laikipia. “Devolution has done more than what the national government did for half a century, yet some people want to cripple that. We’ll not allow it. I will proceed to court if this proposal sees the light of the day,” Roba told the Star on July 1. Ends