 Just why do some hotels demand marriage certificates to book two people into a room? Why would the management of Kericho Hotel deny Laikipia Women Representative Catherine Waruguru and her husband a room just because they could not produce their marriage certificate? Who carries their marriage certificates around anyway? Many Kenyans are wondering when it became mandatory to carry solemn documents whenever you travel as proof of union in order to secure hotel bookings. Sadly, it is not just happening in Kericho alone; some two hotels in Nairobi’s Kiambu area run by a certain church are known to demand marriage documents before a couple is served with dinner. If this is not discrimination or outright infringement on the right to privacy, what is it?  ******* An MP was yesterday shocked when his attempt to enter Mama Sarah Obama’s compound was thwarted by protocol aides. The lawmaker whose main interest was to avail his daughter a golden opportunity to see the former US President Barrack Obama could not believe his eyes when security officers told him that he could neither walk in alone nor with his unaccredited daughter. They were told to wait at the Sauti Kuu Rescue Centre. The MP was seen negotiating for a compromise but the stern officers could hear nothing of the sort. The lifetime chance for the teenage girl whose dream to see Obama at close range was dashed.  ************  It is only recently that Nairobi governor Mike Sonko was complaining that a faction of State officers and covert operatives were working against his administration. The county chief then shifted his operations to his Machakos home from where he run his government temporarily. However, things seem to have changed and Sonko has been operating from City Hall with what appears to be a more than cordial working relationship with the national government. Corridors is asking who blinked first. Did his ‘enemies’ decide to allow the flamboyant governor work or did Sonko run them out of town? Only time will tell. Did government spokesman Eric Kiraithe “think twice” before blaming the tribulations of the workers on negative publicity of the Standard Gauge Railway? Well, for a man who would go every mile to defend the government, after reading out the statement, Kiraithe seemed to have rushed to defend the operator of SGR. When journalists questioned the government’s seriousness in standing for the welfare of its citizenry, he was speechless. The visibly agitated spokesperson was also at pains to explain why many jobs are still in the hands of a few Chinese yet the jobs can be performed by many qualified Kenyans. 