Kenya’s economic and budgetary policies do not clearly capture the role of  the agricultural sector in meeting the Big Four agenda, experts have said. They have cited a lack of deliberate incentives and policy interventions as major drawbacks to the quest for food security. The concerns were raised at the release of a budget analysis report by Route for Food Initiative, an alliance working to realise the human right to food in Kenya. The report states less than Sh60 billion or 3.54 per cent of the Sh3 trillion budget was allocated to the sector despite it being one of the pillars under President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four development agenda. Food security While allocation to the sector increased to Sh57.37 billion from Sh48.3 in the last financial year, the amount is way below the African Union’s Maputo Declaration of 2003, in which Kenya committed to allocate 10 per cent of its budget to agriculture and rural development. Treasury allocated livestock Sh6.25 billion, crop development Sh25.25 billion, fisheries Sh2.79 billion, irrigation 17.98 and agricultural research Sh5.01 billion Alexander Owino, a financial sector specialist and author of the report, said  the budget focussed more on commercial farming, alienating small-holder farmers who produce 80 per cent of food in the country. “Treasury in its 2018 Budget statement omitted food and nutritional security from its assessment of key constraints to economic growth and development,”  Owino said. This, he said, is ironic as food security has been prioritised in the Big Four, and also undermines the need for policies and programmes to end hunger. The report faults the budget over contradicting proposals which if implemented, it says will hurt small-scale farmers. Two such proposals include the removal of interest rate caps and classification of fuel and oil as VAT exempt, which the report argues will raise financing costs for the agricultural sector despite the government’s pledge for affordable credit. The report said the government should allocate more resources to agricultural extensional services to help farmers increase yields. Alex Awiti, the director of the East African Institute at the Aga Khan University, dismissed budget policy on agriculture as elite and out of touch with common farmers. “Although the government targets to raise Sh80 billion by raising mobile money transfer cost by two per cent, allocation is misplaced. Spending it on health rather than agriculture is curative rather than preventive,” he said. Awiti said Kenya must focus on growing what it consumes rather than flowers.