Mandera residents have urged the county executives who were on Thursday approved by the assembly to get down to work. The MCAs unanimously approved the nominees vetted last week. The county has operated for 10 months without a legally constituted executive after the previous list presented by Governor Ali Roba was rejected. Unlike last September when the MCAs shouted, wrestled and whistled to disrupt the proceedings when the names were presented in House for approval, this time they all read from the same script. Speaking to the press in Mandera town on Friday, resident Halima Aden thanked the MCAs for approving the list and urged the executives to focus on serving the county. “This is what we have been waiting to hear all those months. It is unfortunate that as residents we have been subjected to this for mistakes that were not of our own making,” she said. “However, that is now water under the bridge and we are all looking forward to seeing them on the ground working for the people of Mandera who want nothing short of services delivery.” Resident Mohamed Abdi said it was good to see the assembly members united. “We want to appeal to our MCAs to continue playing their roles including oversighting. Working together should not mean that they now be compromised or go to bed with the executive. It should be unity of purpose,” he said. Takaba MCA Bishar Maalim said the nominees rejected before ‘were victims of circumstance’. He was referring to the animosity that existed between MCAs from the jubilee side and those from the Economic Freedom Party[EFP] who could at the time not see eye to eye. Those approved were Dr Mohamud Aden[Health],Ahmed Sheikh[public service],Abdiaziz Maad[Trade],Ibrahim Barrow[Finance],Adan Hussein[lands],Shamsa Mohamed[Gender]Johara Mohamed[Agriculture]Mohamed Ali[Water],Mrs Suleikha Harun[Transport] and Izzudin Abdi[Sports] Speaking to the star on phone, Assembly speaker Aden Khalif said that ‘the issues of approving the list was now behind us’. “As an assembly we have now done our work.it is now for the CEC who should be sworn in and then get down to business of delivering,” said Aden. He assured the residents of Mandera that the assembly is stable under his leadership noting that issues to do with integrity and oversight will