Attorney General Paul Kihara has accused professionals of abetting corruption and only paying lip service to the fight. He also wants corrupt officials to vacate office. Addressing a two-day convention of the Association of Professional Societies In East Africa yesterday, the AG vowed that corruption would be wiped out during his term. “When I came to this office, I knew the responsibility that lay upon me,” said the principal legal advisor to the government. “I want people who come to my funeral to say ‘this is the person who truly stood against corruption’. Under my watch, for sure, we shall overcome corruption.” [VIDEO] Kenya will slay corruption dragon under my watch, says AG Kihara Kiara regretted that Kenya has turned into a society where graft is accepted as normal. He accused professionals such as doctors, architects, lawyers and politicians of promoting the spread of the vice. “We as professionals are the ones stealing and looting,” he said. “Surprisingly, I see many of these leaders flock our offices requesting that we recommend good lawyers for them because they know they have done ills and need protection. This really breaks my heart,” he added. On Thursday, EACC chief executive Halakhe Waqo said lawyers, engineers and accountants have been facilitating corruption in the country. He challenged professional associations to create mechanisms for self-regulation to prevent their members from enabling corrupt deals and ensure that they “fully live up to the calling of their profession.” Explaining the gravity of the situation, Kariuki gave the example of graduates who leave colleges to join the workforce with the mindset of recovering what they spent. “A policeman leaves Kiganjo and the first assignment is on a road block with instructions to collect cash,” he said. “We have to make a personal choice to be accountable. The debate on corruption can go on and on so unless we make individual decisions [against the vice], we shall remain at the same place.” Kihara said many Kenyans become “very uncomfortable” when corruption debates erupt because someone may step on their toes. “We need to be considerate of the sweat, pain, tears and blood that were shed for a better Kenya. We can’t hold our heads high while influenced deals rob us of our patriotism,” the AG said. Kihara challenged the youth to confront corruption despite being lured into it. Some leaders want the vice declared a national disaster. Read: Prosecute 'big fish' to win corruption war, AG Paul Kihara tells EACC Click here for the latest political news