Deputy President William Ruto has urged Kenyans to elect him in 2022 saying he has “enough energy and brains to serve”. He said his are not aimless politics, but good leadership that will spur the economy to greater heights. “I have got a lot in my brain in terms of agenda to move this country forward as some of my competitors continue to spread propaganda and unworthy politics,” Ruto said. He spoke on Friday at Tenges Boys’ High School in Baringo Central after launching the 45km Ainobmoi-Barwessa road and water projects. “What I need is just your support so I can get the strength to serve you more moving forward,” the DP said. Ruto said election politics ended last year and it is time for Kenyans to focus their energies on the Big Four agenda on food security, universal healthcare, affordable housing and manufacturing. “Our priority as Jubilee is infrastructure, universal healthcare and industrialisation to create jobs,” he said. Ruto said contractors will soon begin work on the 100km Karandi-Mochongoi-Marigat, Boror-Sirwa-Ochii road, the 70km Mogotio-Emsos-Mugurin-Lake Bogoria road, and the 40km Kipsaraman-Kinyach road. Read:Ruto’s new team of key confidants Ruto was accompanied by his wife Rachel, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo, Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central), Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), Water CS Simon Chelugui, Irrigation PS Fred Segor and Baringo deputy governor Jacob Chepkwony. The leaders assured Ruto that he commands all votes in the Rift Valley. Cheptumo said he has witnessed the successful development projects being commissioned by the DP in Baringo, including security, roads and the ongoing plans to put up a county university. “People of Baringo are aware of your plans for 2022 and we’ll rally behind you,” he said. He said the Nandi supported retired President Daniel arap Moi for 24 years so it is time for Baringo residents to return the favour. kitchen cabinet Read:I'm investing in heaven, you invest in funerals, Ruto tells critics To actualise his bid, Ruto has a set of close political advisers who are meeting regularly to strategise and execute his political moves. The new Kitchen Cabinet, as is popularly known, was informally assembled early this year and is behind some of the DP’s major decisions and stealthy actions. The group reviews the DP’s weekend activities and plans ahead for him. It also manages his parliamentary agenda, where his allies hold all the key positions. Although he does not often call all of them to meetings at the same time, Ruto speaks to them individually to seek advice on various issues. They give him strategies on how to deal with emerging political issues and coordinate responses “These people separately meet the DP almost on a daily basis and the DP has a lot of time for them,” a source in Ruto’s office said. Also Read:Bring on the lifestyle audit, Ruto says after criticism about wealth Click here for the latest political news