Executive impunity revealed In the continued coverage of the multi-billion shillings Ruaraka Land saga, the Star puts together the details of how top government officials and the National Lands Commission ignored a court order to pay the initial Sh1.5 billion compensation. Last month, the National Assembly Lands Committee which investigated the matter concluded that the process of acquiring the parcel of land was fraudulent and bordered on collusion by top Ministry of Education, Treasury and NLC officials to swindle taxpayers. Details have emerged of how, despite a High Court order barring the State from making any payments, the officials still went ahead to carry out the controversial Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land transaction. Graft war targeting Ruto As the war on corruption continues to evolve, MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto are reading 2022 politics in the recent arrest of KPLC officials, saying the war on graft has taken a political angle. MPs Nelson Koech (Belgut), Benard Koros (Sigowet-Soin) and David Sankok (nominated) wondered why the arrests are “leaning” towards one side. Addressing a press conference at Parliament Buildings on Wednesday, the lawmakers said last week’s arrest of senior officers at Kenya Power was just the tip of the iceberg. Diminished grave land Nairobi residents have been urged to adopt cremation, even as City Hall begins the search for land for a new cemetery. Lang’ata Cemetery, the county’s only graveyard, was declared full more than 20 years ago but city residents continue to use it. The county said the uptake of cremation is slow, yet it is cheaper and environmentally friendly. Most people spend thousands of shillings to transport their loved ones’ bodies to their rural homes. Many often hold fundraisers to foot the costs. Tricky digital taxi business Imagine starving yourself of life’s luxuries for years in the name of saving for a better future, then watching all your hard-earned money go down the drain in under six months. That is what happened to Stephen Okeyo when he decided to join the highly sought-after digital taxi business. After working with different corporate taxi firms for three years, he decided in 2015 that it was time to upgrade and try his hand in the new age of public transport. That was when popular online taxi-hailing app Uber entered the Kenyan market. Editorial The Kenya Wildlife Service has suspended all darting of rhinos following the death of nine black rhinos in Tsavo East national park earlier this month.
The Star editors note, however, that darting is vitally important if a rhino escapes or is in danger and for research purposes. Click here for the latest political news