Twenty honey harvesters in Boni Forest yesterday stumbled on heavily armed al Shabaab militants in Belasange, near Pandanguo village. Some of the estimated 200 fighters opened fire on the Bonis who fled to safety. No one was injured. Residents live in fear. Yesterday they appealed for protection and urged the government to increase security patrols to prevent terror attacks. Efforts to reach KDF spokesman David Obonyo and regional commander Noah Mwavanda for comments were unsuccessful. Their phones were switched off. Some 2,000 hunters and gatherers live in Pandanguo. They are mainly from the Boni community. Their livelihoods are at stake with the presence of the militants in the forest. “We are worried. They could attack us any time. That has been the trend. If they are in the forest now, this only means they are preparing to attack somewhere in the county or beyond,” village head Msuo Suli said. He was among those who encountered the militants. Pandanguo has become a target for al Shabaab attacks. On July 5 last year, more than 200 militants raided the village, ransacked houses and made off with cutlery, food and clothes. left the village in ruins. multiagency team A crackdown by a multi-agency security team is ongoing. The Linda Boni Operation was launched in September 2015 to flush out Shabaab fighters from their hideouts. The team comprises officers from the Kenya Defence Forces, the Anti-terror Unit, the National Intelligence Service, the Recce Squad, the General Service Unit and the Kenya Forest Service. Villager Hussein Hamisi told the Star they had noticed many footprints and decided to pursue them as they advanced into the forest. They came face to face with the militants at their base deep inside the forest, he said. “The footprints suggested there had been a group of people where we were. Out of curiosity, we followed them. That’s when we came upon the militants. We knew they were members of al Shabaab, as we could see guns and other arms,” he said. They also saw tents. “That was their camp. There was smoke, meaning they were cooking. From the look of things, they had been there for several weeks,” Hamisisaid.