Kenyan Albert Njogu eased to the International Tennis Federation (ITF) Nairobi Junior Open 2 quarterfinals with a hard fought 6-4, 4-6, 6-1 win over Jan Koupil of Sweden at Nairobi Club. Arguably the most tough match of the tournament thus far, Njogu had to be clinical in the third set after his opponent threatened, coming from a set down. The homeboy served his quarter final quest brightly in the opening set where he broke the Swede twice and capitalised on a similar number of serves to take a massive four-game lead in what seemed to be like a training session. However, Koupil gathered steam and halved the deficit with two straight games after consistency in the rallies. Njogu replied in the subsequent game but could not keep the winning rhythm which saw him drop two more games to his opponent for a nervous 5-4 lead, setting a hotly contested tenth game of the set which ended in his favour. Fortune swung on the Swede’s side in the second set where he displayed his might and skills to replicate the first set result which rekindled his ambition of advancing to the last eight. Exasperated by the set loss, Njogu showed class in the third where his endurance worked miracles against a weary Koupil. The Form Three student at Mbagathi High School conceded just a game to punch his way to the quarters where he set a date with Udit Kaboj of India who saw off Jiri Krouzek of Czech Republic 7-6(2), 6-4. He said: “My dream remains to make it to the finals and possibly win the tournament. I am happy with the win and the ability to play under pressure especially after pushing the match to the third set.” Another Kenyan boy, Derrick Ominde, bitterly exited the tournament after going down 6-0, 6-3 to Arjun Honnappa of India in the third round. In the girls category, Sneha Kotecha extended her rich vein of form as she stormed the semifinals following a 6-0, 6-1 win over Faizy Ritage of Egypt in the quarters. Sneha comfortably ejected the Egyptian to keep her dream of winning her second ITF tournament after last week’s first ever U18 success.