 They say coincidence is
when God chooses to remain anonymous. Kiambu is county number 22. The Titanic,
a British luxury liner ship, was considered to be unsinkable due to its safety
features. Onboard were 2,200 people and at 2:20am, while travelling at a speed
of 22 knots, it crashed into an iceberg and sank. Some1, 500 people drowned. Kiambu Governor Ferdinand
Waititu is in a catch 22 situation in his efforts to combat the chronic
drinking problem by the youth in his county. He is damned if he does and damned
if he doesn’t. Truth be told, he ought to be applauded for taking this bull by
its horns. And for this, he has received applause and condemnation in equal
measure. He has told off his critics, perhaps because some are his political
competitors. And conceivably, he could be analysing their resistance to his
programme through the political lens. I am not a politician,
so I pose no existential threat to inheriting his throne. Now that we have
established that, I invite his government for a candid economic conversation. And
should they be impatient to listen to the end, the short answer to the question
of whether their approach is effective, is that it is not. Here is the simple
reason. The Bible teaches us in Proverbs 30:16 there are four things that are
never satisfied — the grave, the barren womb, the thirsty desert and the
blazing fire. Modern professional experts have inadvertently added a fifth —
welfare. To put this into context, welfare programmes on poverty in the US ballooned
from $107 billion to $688 billion, by 2015. This was a 640 per cent growth. In
total, $19 trillion has been spent on these welfare programmes but the problem
still persists. The solution to the alcohol menace in Kiambu is being
underwritten through welfare. They have concluded the
youth have become alcoholic because they are idle due to unemployment. And in a
well-intended response, the government has rolled out a youth environmental
cleanup work initiative. As compensation, the youth receive Sh400 per day – Sh300
as wages and Sh100 for breakfast. This amounts to Sh2 million daily or Sh520
million per year for the current 5,000 beneficiaries. An additional Sh70,000 is
spent on fuel daily to monitor the programme. This approach is
economically unsound on so many levels. Allow me to explain the unseen icebergs
likely to sink this ship. One,
as English economist Arthur Cecil Pigou said, a man is only unemployed when he
is both not working and also desires to work. The debilitating condition
alcohol leaves its victims in makes it impossible for them to hold down a job. Begs
the question, how many of the beneficiaries were both out of work, AND desiring
to work? Two,
creating jobs is easy. It’s creating value that is hard. And the purpose of all
economic activity is to produce as much value at the lowest cost possible, and
with the scarce resources available. And this is the difference between a job
and work. Jobs such as cleaning the environment keep people busy. This is
tantamount to baby-sitting indolent youth. Where is the value in that? Three,
according to the Pareto principle, half the work or value produced is done by
the square root of the people involved. This means of the 5,000 beneficiaries, this
programme will impact only 70 of them. So where is the value for money for
spending Sh7.4 million per person per year? Four,
when the law prohibits production and sale of a good, the winners are the ‘illegal’
producers. With prohibition, less of the product is produced or distributed
because of the high risks involved. This causes scarcity and when goods are
scarce, their prices increase. And because the youth have become addicted, they
cannot do without it. It forces them to engage in riskier means of acquiring
the extra money to buy it. So who gains? It becomes more lucrative for the
‘illegal’ producer to operate under a prohibitionist law. Five,
welfare largely produces unintended rewards. When incentives of being on welfare
rise, more people desire to be part of the programme. There is no doubt there
are more unemployed youths in Kiambu. However, they do not earn the Sh400 per
day simply because it is a conditional offer — being an alcoholic. With such an
incentive, it is reasonable to expect that some not hitherto predisposed to drinking,
will advertently become alcoholics to benefit from this initiative. Hence, it
no longer becomes the pursuit of a positive, but the avoidance of a negative. Resultantly,
the number of youth alcoholics rises rather than decreases. Six,
there are people whose livelihoods depend on the youth remaining alcoholic.
These are the vendors and staff from whom services such as youth breakfast,
fuel, and programmer monitoring have been procured. They have an incentive to perpetuate
the alcohol problem. The question that then begs is, to what extent do the
needs of all stakeholders altruistically converge? There are more icebergs
that could be highlighted but I rest my case here and submit that there could
be another way. Overtly partner with the
‘illegal’ investors in the priorities outlined in the County Investment
Development Plan. Inject the Sh520 million directly into these priorities and
mandate they employ the county youth. Formal employment will offer them on the
job skills that will help them create value for others, thereby creating wealth
for themselves. It will also discipline them on time keeping and obeying rules
and regulations, and condition them to be responsible adults with a sense of
pride as they positively contribute to the society. This is not only
sustainable, but will also grow the economy of the county. Finally, my unsolicited
advice to Kiambu governor is, no matter how great and noble the effort, some
things just take time. You cannot produce a baby in one month by impregnating
nine women.  If
things go wrong, don’t go with them – Roger Babson 