He created
the powerful need for visionary leadership as an agent political ‘hygiene’,
which he is identified as the improvement of the quality of people’s lives.  In the riveting lecture, (which I highly
recommend and which you can watch on YouTube), he never lost the chance to make
us Kenyans look bad — to which his primarily Tanzanian audience cheered
profusely. But that is besides the point. At the end
of the lecture, a certain Dr Camillus Kassala stood up to respond to Lumumba with
what he called the ‘Not-always’ Vicious Circle of African Politics.’ Kassala said
that in African politics, “What is logical
is not always practical, what is
practical is not always right, what
is right is not always ethical, what
is ethical is not always desired, and
what’s desired is not always logical — taking
us to the beginning.” That is the ‘Not-Always’ Vicious Circle of African
Politics.’ Dr Kassala pretty
much summarized Kenya’s politics at present. When William Ruto convinced the
Kalenjin nation to support the Kikuyu nation in 2012, it sounded quite logical.
In fact, he dimmed dissenting voices about the wisdom of such a move, saying it
was the sure way to take them to the ‘Promised Land.’ He had burnt bridges with
Raila Odinga, and had convinced the Kalenjins not to back him. Many
questioned the wisdom in the move given Raila, who still enjoyed considerable
support among the Kalenjin at that time, was still smarting from a betrayed MoU,
a stolen election and a frustrated stint as Prime Minister. Kalonzo Musyoka had
pretty much been thrown under the bus, even after accepting the position of
Vice President and giving Mwai Kibaki’s administration the much needed
legitimacy it needed after 2007 election.  LOGICAL BUT
NOT PRACTICAL When the 2007-08
post-polls violence broke out, the two communities at the epicenter of the
crisis were the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin. Then the ICC indictment became the
millstone around Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto’s necks. Uhuru’s
presidential candidacy was premised on wriggling out the millstone around his
neck and that of his running mate, Ruto. The logical thing was to pair up and
hit the road. In fact, it sounded logical to support the candidacy of Uhuru
with the promise he would be support Ruto in 2022. They convinced their
respective nations they would work together serving two consecutive decades. The
plan was kosher! But while it was the most logical thing to do (and to say) it
was dubious in its practicality. While the
coming together of the Kikuyu and Kalenjin in 2013 and 2017 looked logical, there
are those who did not see it as practical. But perhaps it was practical only
that nobody could have seen the changing dynamics in Kenya’s politics as we
know today, or that the historical issues that caused divisions between the two
communities would emerge to cast doubt on the unity. And even if
it was it was practical, it may not have been right. Those who questioned if it
was right, argued that a Kalenjin-Kikuyu political duopoly was not good for the
nation. They argued that in a nation of 43 or more ethnic groups, only two
communities dominating political power since Independence was not right. Practical
yes, but not right — because it perpetuated feelings of marginalisation and
exclusion by other communities outside this duopoly. This
argument was quickly countered by arguments of ‘numbers don’t lie’ and they even
went further to assert that the duopoly was a ‘tyranny of numbers.’ They said
as a democratic nation, the majority must have their way. They were right, but
it was not ethical.  RIGHT BUT
NOT ETHICAL While the
tyranny of numbers was right and it is indeed the basic premise of democracy,
there are those who felt that the whole arrangement of passing the baton to yet
another Kalenjin was right not ethical. But the Kalenjins quickly argued they
had a Kikuyu passing the baton to another Kikuyu was no less unethical than
passing the baton to a Kalenjin. But there were those who said it would be
difficult for the Kikuyu to freely give power to another community, least of
them the Kalenjin. They stated that there was nothing special about the
Kalenjins and even warned them to beware. In fact, they accused the Kikuyu of
making promises they didn’t intend to keep. They pointed out to Jomo Kenyatta’s
MoU with Oginga Odinga. There are those who saw Kibaki’s MoU with Raila and
another with Kalonzo . Both were betrayed at the alter of political expediency
and tribal jingoism. And this brings
us to the idea of political debts. Chinua Achebe, in his book Things Fall Apart, presents us with the
character Unoka, who never paid his debts. When approached by Okoye, who needed
back his money to prepare for the Idemili title, Unoka told him there were
others whom he owed much more money and they had not come to ask for their debt
to be paid. He wondered why Okoye wanted his debt paid first, yet it was the
last one. Unoka told Okoye, “I will pay my big debts first.” If you look at the
discourse, there is something disturbingly real about the situation Ruto finds
himself in.  ETHICAL BUT
NOT DESIRED If indeed
Okoye gave money to Unoka, he was probably doing so to save him from a
seemingly unsurmountable crisis he had found himself in. The Kalenjin debt with
the Kikuyu was to cover the ICC crisis and this seemed more urgent at that
time. But now, the crisis is over and humans being who they are change
priorities as they go. It began
with anti-Ruto voices in the run-up to last year’s election. They found him the
undesirable leader of the nation after Uhuru. But these voices were vehemently muted
by other Kikuyu leaders, with the logical argument that the Kalenjins need not
be rattled at that moment when NASA was pretty much threatening Uhuru’s hold on
power. The Kalenjins stood firm behind Uhuru and Ruto had delivered his part of
the deal. Soon after
the March 9 UhuRaila handshake, these voices regrouped. A musical video that
went viral stating in the Kikuyu language pretty much stated what many
Kalenjins had feared, that the Kikuyu, owe nobody anything. Although many
Kalenjins do not understand the Kikuyu language (with a few exceptions like my
friend Mzee Nyolei, who is very fluent in the language), the message was very
clear — the writing was on the wall! They had found themselves in a position
that was not desired. But if it is ethical to pay the old debts first, it is
not desirable to the Kalenjins.  DESIRED BUT
NOT LOGICAL The
Kalenjins listened as Ruto stated publicly that nobody owed him anything. This
is of course the most desired thing to say, but it was not logical. If nobody
owes Ruto anything, he himself has a massive debt to the Kalenjin nation. Video
clips of Uhuru’s vehement promise to hand over power to Ruto were quickly
shared online. It was on the basis of this promise, that Ruto convinced the
Kalenjins to support Uhuru. And he, therefore, created a debt to them that he
must pay. Speaking at a televised interview, he said if he did not become President,
he would be satisfied that he had achieved greatness by being Deputy President.
No! The
Kalenjins did not send him there to become great as DP. They sent him to become
President, which is why they came out fighting intensely to see that Ruto is
not played. The situation seems illogical particularly for those like me, who
were afraid that the Kalenjins had not quite defined their strategic interest
in the presidency. It looks like they have.  THEATRE OF
THE ABSURD Ruto is
appearing like the poor man, who, finding his family badly hungered, promised
them he would go off to a land far away to find work. He stated that when he
would be paid, he would return to bring them food. Enduring the hunger pangs
and living on the promise of food coming, his wife and children let him go,
praying night and day that he would return bringing with him food. After a
while, he returned and said that he found the job alright but that he was not paid,
and that his employer had said he owed him nothing. That is absurd! It is, therefore,
understandable if his family would feel dejected. He is duty-bound to go back
and demand his payment. Yes, he worked, and yes it is the ethical thing that he
be paid. The children are hungry. 