President Uhuru Kenyatta should visit Turkana County and address the grievances of residents protesting against oil transportation, Moses Wetang'ula has said. The Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader said this on Saturday, amid protests by people who want jobs, security and their share of proceeds. More on this: No oil will leave Turkana without security and jobs, protesters say Wetang'ula said: "Mr President, the oil is important to Kenya's economic future. Turkana is totally insecure as they are being killed day and night by Pokot bandits because of resources. "I expect you to come here or dispatch your deputy (William Ruto] to come and listen to the grievances of Turkanas." He spoke in Kakuma, Turkana West, at the funeral of former Nominated MCA Hellen Mzee, who was a member of Ford Kenya. While noting that there are rules on the sharing of resources, the Senator said residents should get their rightful share as they have guarded the oil for years. He asked Petroleum and Mining Cabinet Secretary John Munyes and other leaders to meet the locals and explain clearly why the oil is important. "Oil is a curse in Africa. Countries with oil have many problems. Nigeria is a good example ... we should not fall into the same trap. We need to handle the matter very carefully," he said. "We want Kenya to go down in history as the only peaceful oil-producing country by taking care of everybody. Poverty has struck Turkana for many years. It's their time to be liberated from absolute poverty." He also noted the county's need for good roads, water, security, better schools and enough health centres. The Turkana county boss is Josphat Nanok who is Council of Governors chair. Wetang'ula further asked religious leaders to speak for the community since they are the "voices of reason everywhere". Munyes, Senator Malachy Ekal; MPs Daniel Nanok (Turkana West), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Catherine Wabilianga (Bungoma Woman Representative) and Vincent Kemosi (West Migirango); and MCAs also attended the burial. Click here for the latest political news