The Building Bridges Initiative task force formed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga after the March 9 handshake has dismissed claims that its final report will be politically influenced. Head of the 14-member team Paul Mwangi on Saturday said they have been in meetings for five weeks now and significant progress has been made.  "Politics has not affected us in anyway. We do not view any of the play outs in political fields to be relevant to what we are doing," Mwangi said in a TV interview. He maintained the taskforce will complete its mandate within the stipulated timelines. "If you start on a foul start you will definitely end up in a wrong place. Five weeks after our gazettement we have made significant strides and we are confident we shall deliver the report,' he said. He said the taskforce has identified three key ares that needs to be worked on across the country for an effective national healing and reconciliation. "The issues of ethnicity, lack of national ethos and corruption cuts across all issues raised and we hope we can start from here to build a citizens conversation on how we can seal the gaps," Mwangi said. The taskforce has so far asked the public for practical views on how to tame corruption. In a statement last week , secretariat heads Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi said countrywide consultations will begin soon. They said the team will hold discussions with organisations that will take part in a conference on taming graft. The conference had been set for August 6-8 but was pushed to later dates that are yet to be announced. Kimani and Mwangi pointed out that this will allow more time for the public's views to be collected. “The conference seeks to open a space for citizens to be heard clearly in this important national moment," the statement read. "The taskforce is convinced that combating corruption will entail the creation of conditions for individual citizens, groups and communities to set the cultural and social conditions that uphold integrity, honour and constitutional values." Read:Building Bridges team asks Kenyans for practical solutions to corruption Also See:Handshake committee gazetted, given a year to present report