As they prepare for the start of what will be a do-or-die four months in a bid to remain in the SportPesa Premier League beginning with this afternoon’s encounter against out of sorts Posta Rangers, basement club Wazito know there is little room for error in their quest for survival. Wazito coach Frank Ouna believes losing many players during the mid-season transfer window and financial challenges have dented their performance but remains optimistic the tide will change. “We have had our fair share of financial difficulties. Consequently, we lost 18 players in the entire in mid-season, which is a record by any standards. This means we have had to rebuild. The challenge in this rebuilding phase is games were coming thick and fast. We have not had the benefit of a mid-season break because the federation and KPL are changing calendars,” he said. The former Gor and Sofapaka assistant coach has termed the match against Posta Rangers a must win but admits it won’t be an easy one. “I think any opponent facing Wazito will have an easy game while the opposite is true. All our games are like finals for us. No easy games and that is the mentality we will approach the match against Posta with,” he concluded. Ouna’s remarks are certainly of a man who is facing up to the reality of how difficult it is to remain among the elite particularly for a club that is short of financial resources to attract and keep quality players. Another struggling outfit Thika United will be hoping for home comfort when they host a resurgent Nakumatt this afternoon. Thika have not won any of their last five games and with a four-point gap between them and a safety spot, matches like this are the ones they will need to pick victories for their own survival. At the other end of the table, the title race might be a foregone conclusion but teams at the top half of the table are jostling to be the best among the rest. Two of them Bandari and Kariobangi Sharks go head to head in Mombasa, looking to narrow the gap between them and second placed Sofapaka who will be away at Tusker tomorrow. Third placed Ulinzi Stars will also be in action tomorrow when they entertain Nzoia United.Third from bottom Vihiga United face a tricky home tie against AFC Leopards while another relegation threatened side Zoo Kericho will be confident of picking three pivotal points at home to kakamega Homeboyz. Today 3pm Bandari vs Sharks (Mombasa) Thika United vs Nakumatt (Thika) Tomorrow 3pm Mathare vs Sony Sugar (Kasarani) Tusker vs Sofapaka (Ruaraka) Ulinzi Stars vs Nzoia Sugar (Afraha) Vihiga United vs Leopards (Mumias) Zoo vs Homeboyz (Kericho)