Five students who have spent a week in custody over suspicion of planning to burn Kangaru Boys High School’s were yesterday released on sh200, 000 bonds. The five who were arrested together with 23 Kangaru Girls High School’s students after allegedly planning to burn the schools simultaneously over unknown reasons were released by Embu resident Magistrate Jean Ndeng’eri. The Magistrate declined the prosecution’s application to have the boys held further as investigations were not yet over and directed that their parents meet the personal bonds on behalf of their children. She directed that the students be returned to the court for hearing of their cases on August 6 this year. They were charged with attempting to burn their school on July 17 this year but they denied the offence before the prosecution sought more time to investigate the incident and thus they were brought back yesterday. The boys were arrested on July 17 this year together with the 23 girls from Kangaru Girls’ High School by the Directorate of criminal Investigation officers in Embu West Sub-County. The girls were however released after the police found no implicating evidence against them before the boys were charged with the offense. Embu West Sub-County Director of Investigation DCI Superintendent of police George Etyang said that five liters of petrol that was to be used in the twin schools burning was also nabbed. Etyang said that police officer were informed of the plans and visited both the schools and arrested the students who they have been interrogating since Tuesday morning over the alleged plans. Etyang said that troubled was sensed since Sunday when the girls were said to have been communicating with the boys through a fence that separate the two Schools on how to implement the heinous plans. Etyangs that following a tip off over the plot they swung into action in both schools and were able to arrest the 23 girls and 5 boys. He said that according to their investigation the s the boys were to set ablaze the girls’ section while the girls were to reciprocate by setting on fire the boys’ dorms. Etyang said that the girls were said to have raised the funds to purchase the petrol that was to be used. He said according to their investigations the girls were to cause the commotion that was to trigger the unrest during which the properties were to be burnt up. Etyang said the arrested students were all from form three in both schools. The arrests cames in the wake of burning of two dormitories by students of Nguviu Boys high School in Embu North Sub-County on Sunday night allegedly complaining over long night study hours and transfer of their principals. Over 200 students at one of the best schools in the county were left without somewhere to sleep-in after their two dormitories were torched by unknown colleagues. Three form two students who were suspected to have been behind the setting ablaze of the twin dormitory were arrested and charged for arson at the Embu Courts. Members of public from the neighboring homes who went to assist in putting out the fire said the students were heard complaining of staying long hours studying at night. They also said the students were also complaining over the transfer of their Principal at the beginning of the year. According to Embu North acting police Boss John Muisyo the school’s principal Nicolas Mutisya reported to that a twin dormitory accommodating the 200 students was seen to be on fire at around 9.20pm as students were on preps. He said the Principal also alerted the Embu County Government fire brigades who rushed to the school and put out the fire but unfortunately all the students’ properties had been burnt up and nothing was salvaged.     