Siaya county will use Obama’s visit to market itself as a tourist destination. On Monday, Governor Cornel Rasanga said his government will woo investors and showcase traditional tools and tourist sites, especially the county’s scenic beauty. “We expect many visitors on July 16. We’ll showcase our items to them, especially our rich culture as evidenced by the items we’ll display,” he said during an inspection tour of a basketball court expected to be launched by Obama. The pitch is built by Sauti Kuu Foundation, which was established by Auma Obama — the former President’s sister. It is nearing completion. It is not yet clear whether Obama will travel upcountry during the one-day call. Residents are, however, upbeat he will spare time and visit Kogelo — the village of his late father, which he put on the world map when he won the US presidential election in 2008. The foundation is also building a football stadium. Rasanga said on Monday the county expects to reap big from the visit. Obama’s presence will thrust the county onto the world stage and improve tourism, he said. Sauti Kuu has also built accommodation facilities for a football academy. The county plans to establish a university in honour of the retired President. However, feuding has derailed the project. Residents and leaders disagreed on its location. Rasanga wants it in Siaya town, while others want it in Kogelo. Some leaders criticised Rasanga for proposing that the county fund the project. They said higher education is a function of the national government and the county should concentrate on ECDE centres. Rasanga said on Monday he will bring up the discussion during Obama’s visit. The university and the power projects will improve the region’s economy and change lives, he said. The county government is repairing access roads to Kogelo. “We’ve spent emergency funds to repair roads but in future, we will set aside resources to support the Sauti Kuu Foundation project,” Rasanga said. Siaya Senator James Orengo urged Rasanga to prepare a document on targeted development projects to be presented to Obama. Only through the document would Obama know projects that will change lives, he said. “Poverty, hunger and illiteracy have been a hard nut to crack. To fix the problem, we not only require devolved funds, but also other resources from donors or friends enjoying international networks like Obama,” Orengo said.