The anti-corruption agency has seized assets and liability documents belonging to land commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is investigation bribery allegations in the SGR land compensation. It also took copies of National Land Commission vice-chairperson Abigael Mbagaya. She is  being investigated alongside Swazuri for compensation irregularities. The National Assembly’s Powers and Privileges committee chaired by the Speaker Justin Muturi yesterday released the documents that EACC said are crucial in determining whether the two were culpable. Read: Lands boss Swazuri ‘to be charged’ over Ruaraka land scandal EACC director of investigations Abdi Mohamed in a letter to the the National Assembly clerk requested for the documents to help the them conduct a lifestyle audit and investigations. The allegations range from double compensation, compensation to individuals for public land and those who did not own land acquired for SGR project, inflation of figures through over-valuation and payment for Kenya Railways Reserve land. Sh215 million parcels in Embakasi East are among the plots whose compensation has come to haunt the NLC bosses. Mohamed told the MPs that the EACC had conducted search on premises of the two and gathered watertight evidence that will be corroborated by what the two declared as owning in 2013, 2015 and 2017. “We did a search after obtaining a court order and will have to compare with what they declared,” he said. Mohamed ruled out any witch-hunt in the probe targeting, saying all their operations are backed by law and evidence. Last year, former journalist Mugo Njeru, in a petition to the EACC, accused Swazuri of demanding a bribe to facilitate compensation for land the government acquired for the SGR project. This was the first time the Powers and Privileges committee, the custodian of the assets and liabilities declaration forms of state officers, released the documents to a government agency. “We received a letter on March 20, 2018 and was subjected to our legal department to ensure that due process was followed as provided by the law,” Muturi said. The documents were produced in the presence of Swazuri and Mbagaya. They did not object. More: DCI told to probe NLC boss Swazuri over Ruaraka land Read: NLC paid Sh1.5bn for Ruaraka land, nobody conned - Swazuri Click here for
the latest political news