The Nairobi government has issued a 14-day notice to private developers who have encroached on public land and road reserves. Governor Mike Sonko on Saturday warned landgrabbers to demolish illegal structures or face forced eviction. He said illegal structures constructed on public land hinder county projects. “We will repossess all grabbed public land in the city and ensure all county projects that had stalled due to land-grabbing are completed,” Sonko said. On Saturday, the governor supervised the demolition of a wall put up on a road reserve along Access Road in South C. Roads Executive Mohamed Dagane said rehabilitation of the 1.1km road has stalled for the last three years due to encroachment by a private developer. Sonko also directed the Enforcement Department to ensure all illegal structures near water reservoirs are demolished. “The South C water reservoir, capable of holding five million cubic metres of water, is not operational because private developers have interfered with water pipes that feed the reservoir,” he said. In March this year, the MCA for South C Khalif Osman requested a statement from the assembly’s Sectoral Committee on Water and Sanitation. He asked why South C residents, especially those in Mbugani Five Star, Green Estate, Ruby Estate and Joleyn, did not have water, leaving them at the mercy of vendors who exploit them. The response is yet to be tabled before the assembly. Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir supported Sonko’s directive to have all illegal structures built on public land demolished. Last week, Sonko pledged to ensure grabbers of public land face the full force of the law. He said land meant for construction of markets will be secured to ensure grabbers do not acquire fake title deeds and allotment letters. As of July 19, a total of 2,640 illegal structures had been demolished. Makadara MP George Aladwa has supported removal of illegal structures outside schools in his constituency. He said parents sacrifice a lot economically to ensure their children get good education. “If you engage in such vices, your parents will end up shouldering the burden of reconstructing schools,” Sonko said. He insisted that his government will fully implement the Ministry of Education policy that outlawed construction of structures outside school compounds. “The Nairobi government won’t allow illegal structures outside school compounds since they have previously been blamed for drug trafficking and burning of schools,” he said Makadara MP George Aladwa, backed Sonko’s remarks, supporting removal of illegal structures outside schools in his constituency.