The Court of Appeal in Kisumu yesterday validated the elections of Governors James Ongwae (Kisii) and John Nyagarama (Nyamira). The appeals were dismissed on grounds of insufficient evidence and lack of merit. On Nyamira, the appellate judges dismissed the appeal and ordered appellant Walter Nyambati to pay Sh3 million suit costs. Judge Stephen Gatembu said the appeal lacked merit and was filed at the wrong registry. He also said the petitioner introduced new evidence,which was not present in the petition at the High Court. Nyambati was making his second attempt to reverse Nyagarama’s win after the High Court in Kisii thwarted his petition on February 27. He wanted Nyagarama’s victory to be nullified on grounds of voter bribery and illegal malpractice. Judge James Makau said Nyambati failed to prove his allegations. The petitioner failed to produce evidence to support claims unregistered voters in 46 polling stations were allowed to vote. He said the irregularities found during the scrutiny of votes were insufficient to invalidate Nyagarama’s win. “If there were errors it affected both candidates and the allegations brought forward are baseless,” Judge Makau said. Nyambati alleged that in 16 out of 553 polling stations, there was duplication of votes. He also stated that unregistered voters were allowed to vote, which is against the election laws. In his appeal, Nyambati argued that Judge Makau failed to consider the evidence. He hired three more lawyers to represent him in the appeal. The former Jubilee candidate lost the Nyamira governor’s race after garnering 58,936 votes against Nyagarama’s 65,161. Read:Petitioner appeals against Ongwae win The same court also dismissed an appeal challenging the election of Ongwae, saying it lacked merit. Judge Kathurima Minoti ruled that the election was conducted in accordance with the law. “There was no fraud in the election. We found out that IEBC conducted the election in a free and fair manner. It also expressed the will of the people,” he said. The judge ordered appellant Joel Onsando to pay Sh3 million suit costs. Onsando wanted the court to nullify the election of Ongwae on grounds of irregularities. High Court Judge Hellen Omondi dismissed the petition with costs of Sh 5million after the petitioner failed to prove his case. Sitting in Kisii, she said an election is a human endeavour and not carried out by programmed machines. Omondi said one cannot quash an election where there is no malice through human error. Onsando presented a case based on whether the voters register was credible and verifiable, whether there were differences in votes cast for the six elections and whether Ongwae and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi committed election offences. Read:Ongwae, Osoro survive as court throws out election appeals Click here for the latest political news   