Chief administrative secretary of public service, youth and gender affairs Rachael Shebesh has asked Siaya residents to embrace handshake unity to reap more goodies from the government. Shebesh who was visiting Siaya for the first time to launch national government sanitary towels to schools said being a Jubilee general she would not have set foot in Siaya without the handshake. Addressing residents at Siaya county stadium on Tuesday, Shebesh regretted the simmering rivalry between Jubilee and Nasa during elections advising that the situation should not be repeated. “I want to thank President Uhuru Kenyatta and Prime Minister Raila Odinga for prevailing upon their personal interests for the benefit of the country’s peace,” Shebesh said. Shebesh said it’s through the handshake that has seen Siaya County benefit from the national government sanitary towels to over 180,000 school going girls in primary and secondary schools. Read: Makueni, Kitui first to get free sanitary pads for schoolgirls The chief administrative secretary of public service, youth and gender affairs announced that the government will be distributing the pads to Siaya schools every term. “From today no school going girl will ever buy the sanitary towels. We will be giving them four packets of pads per term,” she added. Shebesh at the same time directed the county commissioner to work closely with the office of the women representative in ensuring that the pads are distributed for free to school learners. “Am warning those who will be responsible for the distribution of the pads against storing them in stores or offices, these girls can store the pads for themselves,” Shebesh said. Siaya women representative Christine Ombaka said giving girls sanitary pads will give them a chance to be in schools for long and also concentrate on class work. “Our girls are no longer going to worry about menstruation like in the past where the circle had kept them out of school for lack of pads,” Ombaka said. The occasion was also attended by among other Siaya Deputy governor James Okumbe, Siaya first lady Rosella Rasanga, and the chair of Youth advisory board Ronnie Osumba among others. Click here for the latest political news