ODM politicians have given KURA seven days to resettle victims of Kibera demolitions, noting they were to be compensated and allocated other places to live. Led by Secretary General Edwin Sifuna, they cited breach of a resettlement agreement by Kenya Urban Roads Authority. “It is a betrayal of trust for the government side to demolish structures in the wee hours with an agreement in place,” Sifuna said on Tuesday, without specifying the consequences of ignoring the ultimatum. He noted that the people have remained peaceful despite "cowardly act" by the government and the need to fight those opposed to dialogue on the matter. The demolitions will pave way for the construction of 'missing link 12', will connect Nairobi’s busy Ngong Road to the new Southern Bypass. The link is one of the 16 projects identified by the government in 2014 to reduce traffic jams in the city. The bypass will cut 60m wide from the DC’s office to Kibera South Health centre, then to Kungu Karumba Road. It will have 2.5m-wide cycle tracks on each side and pedestrian walkways. KURA communications officer John Cheboi said affected residents have been listed for compensation of business and houses, not land. Details: [VIDEO] Kibera and the road that divides residents Speaking at the same forum as Sifuna, Nairobi woman representative Esther Passaris said the victims should be compensated and resettled immediately. She asked the government to construct shelters for use during emergencies and establish proper social structures. “Nairobi is congested ... we need social halls that can house people during emergencies. This will lead to more trust in the government,” Passaris said and promised to help the victims. The woman rep further said Kibera youths should be hired for road construction projects as part of efforts to create employment. More on this: Kura, Amnesty in Twitter spat over Kibera demolitions Also read: Stop inhumane Kibera demolitions, KNCHR tells KURA Click here for the latest political news