JAMES MURIMI  @Jamesmurymy  The probe on the disputed prime Ruaraka land has taken a new twist after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko raised an alarm over different land rates arrears tabulated by his officers. Sonko yesterday told MPs he has suspended 10 officers from his administration over alleged irregularities in the amount the city county owes Afrison Exports and Imports Limited and Huelands Limited – firms that claim ownership of the land. Sonko told the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee that an entry in one of the accounts of the firms, on July 5, 2018, reflected land rates arrears of Sh3.9 billion. He said that as at July 17, 2018, the arrears from the similar rates account were Sh1.1 billion. “My officers came with a different account for the same land showing different figures. Under the new account, it shows that the balance as at March 31, 2018 is Sh14 million,” Sonko told the committee session chaired by Kiambu senator Kimani Wamatangi. According to the records dated March 2015, Sonko said the rates for the same piece of land were waived from Sh1.4 billion to Sh87.5 million. The 13.7 acre land, which is also claimed by Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School neighbours, GSU headquarters, De La Rue and the Kenya School of Monetary Studies. “This matter is under our own internal investigation because we doubt these figures. This rates department had tampered with so many properties belonging to innocent Nairobi land owners. Immediately I took over, I interdicted the head of land rates in my administration,” Sonko said. “I don’t want to rely on documents that I have been provided by some of my rates officers because they were working in the previous administration. I will not table this report from my officers to this committee because it is misleading. I advise this committee not to rely on this report.” The National Assembly Lands committee recommended the investigation of NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri over payment of Sh1.5 billion for compulsory acquisition of the disputed land. The House adopted the report with amendments that directed Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to investigate Swazuri and other officers in the commission over the partial payment of the prime land hosting two city public schools.    