Students of Maranda Boys High School in Bondo which was closed due to the unrest
that has hit several schools in the country re-opened on Tuesday. The
school management demanded that all students report back with parents and clear
pending fees. However, after the parents had made all the necessary payments,
they were confronted with a new mandatory item christened "Student
welfare" under which each student is expected to pay Sh1000 per term. Now
Maranda has an average of 60 students per class with 11 streams. If each student
pays this amount per month, it amounts to Sh7,920,000. In a year, the school
will have collected about Sh24m. Where is all this money going? *** A chair of a parliamentary committee was on the spot yesterday for being too
harsh on members who wanted to ask questions during a session with some
witnesses. The lawmaker, who often overruled MPs’ questions and went ahead to
pose his own, appeared to obviously attempt to take the seat of the
witness. He spoke for the witness and often blocked legitimate questions by
members, leaving some people wondering if he had been compromised. Will the
critical committee deliver anything for Kenyans? *** A head of an accounting unit within an influential state department located
along Harambee Avenue could be in trouble. The man who was affected by the
President’s order suspending heads of procurement and accounting departments
has been facing corruption allegations but never been prosecuted. The man who
brags that he knows who-is-who in political circles doesn’t have the minimum qualifications
required to head such a unit. Corridors is informed that he was to appear
before the vetting panel last Wednesday but didn’t show up. Now Corridors is
wondering why the DPP is yet to charge him despite the swirling corruption claims
against him. *** Perhaps Inspector General Joseph Bonnet should hear this. Police officers
working within Kasarani division have developed an insatiable appetite for
money. Those who are assigned night patrols are even worse. The officers have
made it a routine to collect ‘levies’ from residents and business owners around
Seasons, Roysambu, Sunton, Hunters and Mwiki estates. Sadly, the officers who
start the collections at around 7.30pm daily, demand for Sh100 as they move
from one shop to the other. They then disappear to their comfort zones after
9pm leaving the residents at the mercy of criminal gangs which take over at
night. Residents are asking if the money is part of the officers’ overtime pay and
why the authorities should not just include it in the policemen’s payslips and
pay tax.