China will invest $14.7 billion in South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday after talks between the two countries. The news sent the rand one percent firmer. Speaking at the same event, Chinese President Xi Jinping said the world's second-biggest economy would take active measures to expand imports from South Africa to support development in Africa's most industrialised economy. Ramaphosa, who has promised to revive the economy since becoming president in February and after winning the leadership of the ruling African National Congress last year, said "Xi has indicated that China is ready to invest and work with South Africa in various sectors." The rand firmed after Ramaphosa's announcement, spurred by offshore demand for the currency, traders said. South Africa's struggling state-run power firm Eskom, which swung to a full year loss on Monday, received a $2.5 billion loan from the China Development Bank. Ramaphosa has focused on revitalising Eskom, Africa's largest public utility, which was embroiled in corruption scandals under former president Jacob Zuma and narrowly avoided a liquidity crunch early this year after banks halted lending. Zuma has denied wrongdoing. South Africa's logistics utility Transnet also received a cash injection, as well as other sectors of the economy, officials said. Xi said China and South Africa were important emerging economies with similar perspectives on many global issues. "Hence the need to strengthen cooperation," Xi said. Meanwhile, Rwanda has signed loan agreements worth more than $300 million with China and India to fund roads and irrigation, officials said, as leaders from the two Asian powers made their first visits to the East African nation. Jinping visited Rwanda from Sunday to Monday and granted a loan to build two roads while India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived on Monday. Modi, who was on the way to a summit in South Africa, agreed $200 million in loans. “With India we signed a loan of $100 million for irrigation in three separate areas in the country and $100 million for developing special economic zones,” Rwanda’s minister of finance Uzziel Ndagijimana told Reuters. “With China we signed a loan agreement of $76 million for the road from Huye to Kibeho and for the new Bugesera airport access road it is $50 million,” Ndagijimana said. Read: Africa needs common China policy Also read: The growth, weaknesses and future of China-Africa trade, infrastructure ties Click here for the latest political news