Over 3,000 families in Majaoni, Kisauni constituency will be issued with title deeds within the next two months, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Kisauni is one of the regions in Mombasa, which has experienced perennial land problem as the majority of the residents live as squatters. On Saturday at Kadongo grounds in Mishomoroni area, during a Harambee to raise funds for the construction of a national secondary school in honour of the former Kisauni MP late Karisa Maitha, Ruto said the land issue in Kisauni will now be resolved. “We are here with the Lands Principal Secretary Muraguri (Nicholas), we have government officials, 12 vehicles and over 50 officers who will start working from Monday to survey that land in Majaoni,” said Ruto. He said the officers are expected to complete their work within a month and process the required documents in the next 30 days to follow. “In 60 day, over 3,000 households or families will get their title deeds,” said Ruto. Ruto said the Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo informed him about the squatter issue two weeks ago and decided that action has to be taken to ensure the residents get title deeds. He said the title deeds project for Mombasa area will also include Allidina and Maganda settlement scheme in Jomvu constituency, which us under the leadership of Badi Twalib of ODM. “We shall add the Maganda and Allidina settlement scheme in Jomvu,” said Ruto. He said they will then move on to other areas within the coast. “It is not Kisauni alone, we have title deed programme for other areas of the coast, we shall come back with the President to issue title to the residents,” he said. Read: State to issue 50,000 titles to Nairobi land owners - DP Ruto From Mombasa County, only two MPs were present in Ruto’s function, Mbogo (the area MP) and Twalib from Jomvu, who pledged to support Ruto in 2022. Mbogo said in 2022, he will lead the Kisauni residents to vote for Ruto. “My people have said that if I do not vote for Ruto in 2022, they will also not vote for me, therefore, in 2022, before I even vote for myself, I will vote for my fellow hustler,” said Mbogo. Other MPs who had accompanied Ruto are; Suleiman Dori (Msamweni), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Sharrif Athman (Lamu East), Gertrude Mbeyu (Women Rep, Kilifi) and Lydia Haika (Women Rep, Taita Taveta) Others were Christine Zawadi (nominated), Hiribae Buya (Galole), Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi, Jones Mwaruma (Taita Taveta), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mungaro (Lands). Click here for the latest political news