Several woman representatives have faulted their Uasin Gishu counterpart Gladys Shollei for proposing the scrapping of the seat. In her constitutional amendment bill tabled in Parliament, Shollei iseeks to scrap the woman representative position and increase the number of women in Parliament through election, instead of party nominations. The bill proposes the paring of constituencies to form one constituency that will be reserved solely for women. Both genders will vie for seats in the existing constituencies. If passed, the bill will be a big blow to party leaders who usually dish out nomination certificates to cronies and mistresses. Woman representatives unhappy with the proposal are Rehema Hassan of Tana River, Beatrice Nkatha of Tharaka Nithi, Catherine Wambilianga of Bungoma, Rosa Buyu of Kisumu, Irene Kasalu of Kitui and Halima Mucheke (nominated). They said the bill is misplaced and seeks to undermine the position of women in society. The leaders spoke on Saturday in Madogo, Bura constituency, during a fundraiser towards construction of a maternity ward in Nanighi. Hassan said the seat was created as a result of affirmative action and those who have occupied it have done a lot for their respective counties in a short time. “We have a lot of programmes that we have lined up for our people. Our only request to the government is to consider increasing the budgetary allocation for the national affirmative action kitty,” she said. Read:Scrapping womens rep position will not solve wage bill problem - NCEG Kasalu said they are not in support of the bill and urged Shollei to rescind her decision. “I empathise with her constituents who elected her because it is like she does not know what she was elected to do. It is time somebody reminded her of her role,” she said. Wambilianga said the seat is the only one that “reaches the ground” through the small cash given to woman representatives. Speaking separately, Embu woman representative Jane Wanjuki opposed the bill. She said Shollei did not consult other women before coming up with it. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Wanjuki said despite being a member of the caucus of the 96 elected and nominated women MPs, Shollei did not bother to seek their views. “She never sought our views. In fact, we are all surprised by reports she is moving the bill. I read about it in the press,” she said. Wanjuki said Shollei should have looked for a better way of tabling the bill by seeking other women’s support. Embu chief whip Margaret Kariuki and nominated MCA Rose Kinyua said Shollei’s idea, in which she proposes pairing of constituencies to form one that will be reserved solely for women, will ensure more women go to Parliament and county assemblies. Also Read:Abolish women's rep positions - Muturi Click here for the latest political news