Kenyans risks paying more to service domestic debt, if Treasury decides to sell bonds through private placement as opposed to open auctions by Central Bank of Kenya. A Treasury official confirmed to the Star that fund managers from leading investment firms in the country on Friday where locked in a meeting with senior ministry officials to explore possibility of auctioning domestic government bond. Treasury bonds have traditionally been auctioned by CBK which negotiates, fix interests and accept favorable bids. Caleb Muganda, investment analysts at Cytonn cautions that placing government bonds in the hands of private players is risky as they are likely to hike interests for selfish gains and even lock out common Kenyans. " Private firms will hike interests and buy hugely for maximum returns, forcing Kenyans to dig deeper in pockets to service domestic debt. CBK normally negotiate in the best interest of the government," said Muganda. He however said that it was good for Treasury to experiment various ways to raise funds, noting that government bonds have received low subscription in past weeks. The volume of bonds traded declined for the fourth week in a row, reaching Sh10.9 billion in the week ending July 5, 2018 down from Sh 11.4 billion traded in the previous week and Sh 17.2 billion traded in the week ending June 13, 2018. The decline could be partly attributed to investors’ inclination towards short term investment as the fiscal year begins, this, according to CBK weekly bulletin. " Treasury is simply in market sounding exercise. Let us see what they will bring to the table," said Muganda CBK had not commented on the matter by the time of going to press. Treasury CS Henry Rotich while presenting 2018/19 budget statement committed to borrowing more internally to fill the country’s budget deficit estimated at Sh562 billion in order to cushion Kenyans from high cost of serving external debt. Treasury has been floating at least Sh40 billion bonds every month since December last year, putting domestic debt at par with external one. CBK puts Kenya’s domestic date at Sh2.44 trillion as at May this year while external debt is at Sh2.51 trillion.  Silent war between Treasury and CBK? Treasury’s plans to engage private players in the bonds market is the latest stab at CBK as friendly fire between the two government entities gain momentum. Although neither of them is yet to comment on the latest development, by engaging private fund managers, Treasury will have systematically edged out CBK from the lucrative bond market that normally earn the banking regulator up to Sh3 billion in agency fee. The two state bodies have locked horns before, with the latest incident playing out in the parliament. On Friday, Treasury PS Kamau Thugge disputed CBK governor Patrick Njoroge’s claims that the country’s debt is not manageable, insisting that it was within reasonable perimeters. The PS was appearing before the parliamentary budget committee to give the status of the country’s debt. During the last Monetary Policy Committee, CBK governor Patrick Njoroge picked issue with the draft Financial Market Conduct Bill, saying it aims to dilute its regulatory role and that Treasury did not consult CBK. The Bill by proposes the creation of additional three regulatory bodies in the financial sector. 