Women in the agricultural sector are set to benefit from a Sh 236 million billion fund from the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation (CTA). The Netherlands-based lobby yesterday said the credit facility will be advanced to women in agribusiness across African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries. It is part of the Value4Her project that seeks to empower women to comprehensively and competitively participate in agribusiness enterprises. CTA director Michael Hailu asked other donors to join the mission to empower women. "With Value4Her, CTA recognises women and youth potential and want to give it room for growth," Hailu said. He spoke during the launch of the fund in Nairobi. He said agriculture is the surest way of growing the economies of ACP countries. ACP is a European Union project that seeks to improve trade with regional blocks. "Agriculture is the engine of growth in Africa. To grow their economies and create jobs, countries will have to transform agriculture to be modern, inclusive, productive and profitable,” Hailu said. "We are here to affirm our commitment to women empowerment in the business of agriculture, an agenda that is so crucial and important for Africa as well across the developing world.” Nnenna Nwabufo, the Africa Development Bank (AfDB) Group's deputy director for East Africa said women's power in agriculture is yet to be fully exploited. She said the bank has developed a strategy to support of women agribusiness. “We have identified three pillars for gender equality: strengthening women’s legal rights, promoting economic empowerment and capacity building,” Nwabufo said. Value4Her will enable more women to own and run agro-related businesses enterprises, she said. The launch was attended by Crop Development PS Richard Lesiyampe. He said women's potential to drive agro-industries has largely been ignored and frustrated. “Women are productive only that we are not giving them the full support required. We shall establish policies that will provide women with an avenue to fully participate in the entire agriculture value chain,” Lesiyampe said.