In his book, Dr. John Ndavula explores the relationship between digital networking technologies and contemporary Kenyan politics in his book. He addresses issues such as the impact of social media on Kenya’s political landscape, theoretical underpinnings for such adoption of social media in political campaigns, practical implications for social media us in the political exercise, pros and cons of social media use in the democratic process. This is the first comprehensive study of the impact of social media on politics in East Africa.  Below is Ndavula's interview with the Star  Full Name John Ndavula Describe yourself in a few words? I am an educator, writer and editor. I am an editor at Borderless Press, and the founding editor of Kikwetu: A Journal of East African Literature. What do you do for a living? I teach communication studies at St Paul’s University, and I am the head of the communication studies department at the same university. How did you first fall in love with or discover your art/ gift? And were you able to nurture your passion to the point where you are now? Did you get any training or mentorship? I am a writer of both academic and literary works. I discovered my passion for writing at an early age. My teachers at primary school remarked about my writing prowess. Later on I horned my writing skills when I studied language, literature and communications at the university. I began by writing guide books for fiction for use at schools and colleges in the East African region. So far I have published five books. This experience made me believe in myself and it set me on a path to publishing. What are some of the literature pieces you have worked on and in what capacity? I have published one peer reviewed academic book arising from my PhD thesis. The title of the book is Social Media and Political Campaigns in Kenya: An Examination of the Influence of Digital Networking Technologies on Election Processes published by the Borderless Press in 2018. Over the years I have engaged in other publishing projects involving writing guidebooks for literary fiction examinable in East Africa. What has been your favorite book hat you worked on and why? My favourite book to work on was the Social Media and Political Campaigns in Kenya: An Examination of the Influence of Digital Networking Technologies on Election Processes. This is because of the mentorship and peer review process through which I underwent. I got a writing residency in the US where I had access to a good library and academic mentorship. The result is a book of academic repute. Do you see yourself ever branching into production?, if yes when? And if no why? I have worked as a script writer of Mela’s House and Angel’s Diary. I have produced a couple of documentaries for corporates but I’m looking an idea of a film in a years time.  John Ndavula./COURTESY What is your work history? After college, I had a stint as a high school teacher. After my master’s degree, I begun teaching at Moi University as an adjunct lecturer. Later, I was employed by the St. Paul’s university as an assistant lecturer. I have risen through the ranks to the head of the communication studies department. What do you love about what you do? I love my work because it's amazing to inspire many students to actively pursue knowledge and research in an area that is under researched in Kenya. I have also been a role model to many students. What inspires you when you work? The desire to leave the world a better place than I found it inspires me to wake up everyday and face the world. So far what is your career high? My career high was when I published a book in the area of digital communications. This is an emerging area in communications with very little local scholarship and publications dedicated to this area. It is therefore quite pleasurable to be able to contribute to this emerging contextual study of digital media. Any awards or fellowships? I received the Postcolonial fellowship award in 2016 which enabled to get a writing residency in a university in the U.S. I had access to academic mentors who helped me work on my book project. Who do you admire most in your line of work locally or internationally, and why? I admire the work of Prof. Ali Mazrui who was able to bring Kenyan scholarship to the limelight at a time when there was little scholarship coming out of Kenya. There are those who say that with digital media has ruined the literature market (book printing) because now the product is bought at a low cost, and the industry is not growing, what do you believe? If you consider the amount of time that good writing takes, and the amount of resources that are invested in it, the low cost of the digital product can only work when a book is mass consumed. However, most people tend to share pirated copies for which they do not pay a shilling and are happy to do so. Are you able to make a living out of what you do? I make a living out of my job as a lecturer, but not from writing. Here I’m talking about both academic writing and fiction writing. What are some of the challenges you face as a writer? How do you overcome? Balancing between work and writing is quite challenging. Most writers cannot live off their writing, therefore they have to think more about their daily job than writing. Lack of good mentors is a big challenge. Writing a peer reviewed academic book is not easy without good mentors who are willing not only to show you the way and but also to walk with you. The cost of printing books is also quite exorbitant. Have you ever wanted to give up and do something else, if yes how did you overcome? I must admit I have had long dry writing spells. Luckily, I have a job I can bounce back to. Tell us a little about yourself, your childhood, what born you were in the family, how many siblings, what type of a child you were, your childhood dream? I had a happy childhood surrounded by caring parents and siblings. I the middle born in a family of five, so I was surrounded by love all around me. I was a quiet but happy child. My childhood dream was to become a renowned writer. Apart from teaching and writing, what else do you do? I am into charity work. I run a community-based organization called ADEO which sponsors education for bright and needy children and also run medical campaigns around lifestyle diseases such as diabetes. My model is to get young professionals to give back to the society which has supported them though their education. I have done this since 2007. What do you do for fun away from work? I have been blessed with two wonderful children - ten-year-old Sasha and Grant who is five years old now. During my free time, I spend time with my wife and the children. Where do you see yourself in the next 10 years? I see myself as a researcher who will make significant contributing to research in the area of the utilization of digital media as tools for communication.