ODM leader Raila Odinga will be on the ballot in 2022, Alego Usonga MP Samuel Atandi has said. Atandi was reacting to remarks by DP William Ruto allies that they will "send Raila home for good before 2022". +The MP told off the critics saying no one in Ruto's campaign can match Raila's political game. "Raila will retire from politics at his own volution and that is why we in ODM can't entertain reckless statements from any quarter about his retirement," Atandi said. Atandi asked Ruto and his allies to mind their business and stop plunging Raila in cheap politics of 2022. "Raila will be on the ballot come 2022 whether he (Ruto) like it or not but he will hit the campaign trail at the right time and not now," he said. Earlier Raila had asked Ruto and his allies to stop engaging in early campaigns and help the President realize his development agenda. More on this: Raila to Ruto: 'Your presidency is not guaranteed, stop loitering' Also read: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact Raila warned Ruto against jumping from one corner to the other disturbing residents on how he is going to vie in 2022. "Those polarizing the country with cheap 2022 politics must give residents time to enjoy the fruits of development," Raila said. “By telling us that you want to be the president in 2022 four years to election period is like someone who wants to inherit someone’s wife before the husband dies,” he added. Raila said those who are obsessed with 2022 politics should hold their horses for the right time. Raila said his aim before 2022 is to see a strong united country and more development going forward and that is why he signed an MoU with the president. Addressing residents at Ramba Catholic church in Siaya, Atandi said it's not the obligations of Ruto and his allies to tell Raila when to retire from politics. Atandi asked ODM supporters not to lose trust in their party leader due to divisive politics from Ruto's allies. "We know they want to shift the attention from the war on corruption and lifestyle audit to Raila's fate in 2022 but we will not allow them," he added. Also read; I'm doing my job as Deputy President not loitering - Ruto Click here for the latest political news 