Dotwork is artwork mostly done in tattooing. This is where an artist draws using dots to come up with an image. David Mwachofi says he is the third-best artist majoring in dotwork globally after David Bayo from France and Gaitho Kimani, famously known as Gaithok, from Kenya. The artist, who hails from Taita Taveta county, does his dotwork on paper but not to tatoo. Mwachofi started drawing in 2007 and in 2015, he decided to turn his talent into business. In 2017, he decided to major in dotwork since he describes it as a rare artwork that will see take him places. His first dotwork was a drawing of the famous Kenyan football player Victor Wanyama. “People liked it. It has been a game changer for me,” he said, adding that it encouraged him to major in dotwork. The appreciation he got made him realise this was the right artwork he can major in.  WHAT HE MAKES For now, his drawings go for Sh2,500-Sh3,000 for an A4 size, Sh4,000 for A3 size and Sh8,000-Sh10,000 for A2 size. Per month, Mwachofi sells close to five pictures, and this has seen him manage to pay his bills and college fees. Mwachofi describes artwork as the in-thing. He will never be discouraged by people who tell him that artwork will not take him anywhere here in Kenya. “I draw famous people for marketing purposes,” the artist says, insisting on being creative so as to sell your work. As an idea on what he is going to draw next, he looks for photos that have more reactions maybe on social media and begins working on them.  MEETING CELEBS Mwachofi’s talent has seen him meet Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, where he presented his artwork. He’s also met Mvita MP Abdhulswamad Nassir, and drawn Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Because he is from Taita, most of his drawings are of famous people from that area. He wants to do something positive to the community by ensuring he has passed out his skills to younger people through training them. “Talking with kids and teaching them will be a small way of giving out to the community,” Mwachofi said.  HURDLES FACED His greatest problem is getting equipment, which he says is very expensive. “Sometimes I’m forced to buy the equipment outside the country so as to get the best quality,” he said. For example, a pen he uses for the dotting might go for Sh300, and a single picture might require many pens. He has also had to deal with negative critiques from people, telling him his work is just a waste of time and he should just let go.  SELF-BELIEF KEY He however says disadvantages do not put him down, but he strives to do his best to ensure he reaches the top. He tells the community to always believe in themselves whenever they want to do something. “You have to believe and push yourself. Keep on doing what you are doing so long as it is a good thing,” Mwachofi said.