Tourism CS Najib Balala has apologised for telling critics who asked him to resign over the deaths of 10 endangered rhinos to ‘go to hell’. While appearing before the National Assembly Committee on Environment on Tuesday, he said he will only leave office if the appointing authority asks him to do so. The CS said he was only reacting to accusations by people trying to "character assassinate" him. “I'm sorry, I responded to individuals, not the Parliamentary committee or the general public,” he said. “I'm answerable to the people of Kenya through its leadership in Parliament.” Balala said he has a lot of respect for Kenyans, and apologised for dragging the President’s name into the matter. Related: ODM slams 'arrogant' CS Balala over 'go to hell' remark on rhino deaths probe Also read: Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions The CS said he understood people needed an explanation for the deaths of the rhinos during the botched transfer to Tsavo National Park on June 26. “I'm in pain over the unfortunate loss of the rhinos,” he said. Najib faulted the system, saying it did not act quickly to stop the deaths. He reiterated that he will work diligently to solve the issue. “I have done my best in all the portfolios I have held. In this one, I am going to put in my heart, soul, knowledge and experience to change the sector,” he said. The former Mvita MP said the Kenya Wildlife Service had done its best, but said negligence caused the deaths. “It is clear there was some negligence during the translocation,” he said. He said the KWS informed him about the deaths on July 8. Nine rhinos that were being relocated from Nairobi and Nakuru national parks died on July 13, Balala said. “Before the ninth rhino died, I decided to go to Tsavo with the KWS team. The environment was harsh," he said. “The whole objective of moving the rhinos was to create space for them because they are territorial animals." The CS halted the transfer and ordered a postmortem on the animals. Balala said a veterinary doctor, DCIO officers, and rhino experts from South Africa carried out the investigations. He said the ministry has all the 20 horns. Click here for the latest political stories