A few days ago, 48 senators and MPs from the
Kalenjin-speaking Rift Valley held a meeting at Weston Hotel, ostensibly to
iron out their differences, bury the multiple hatchets and start working and
speaking as a team. Just to demonstrate how heavy, sensitive
and fragile the agenda was, the night meet went on for more than five hours and
in the end, the leaders emerged smiling, shaking hands and hugging. They had
achieved their goal, or so they thought. The meeting would not have happened without
Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny, who has of late been instrumental in bringing
together warring politicians from the region and solving emerging differences.
Only two months ago, Kutuny was leading Kalenjn politicians and elders in unity
talks. Prior to the meeting, loud-mouthed
politicians allied to Deputy President Wiliam Ruto had received a
tongue-lashing from the Cherangany MP, warning them against blackmailing
President Uhuru Kenyatta’s efforts geared towards improving the welfare of the
people. The Weston meet was aimed at forcing Elgeyo
Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nandi county counterpart Kiprotich
Cherargei et al to stop their divisive politics. It was not a mean task but it
was somehow achieved, at least for now. If the ceasefire holds, Murkomen, the
Jubilee Majority leader in the Senate, might survive the push to remove him. As the Jubilee leader in the Senate, Murkomen
should not have been spewing sludge at Uhuru’s men but defending the
government’s decisions and policies. National Assembly Majority leader Aden
Duale should, too, have been in the forefront supporting the President’s
directives and efforts such as the Big Four agenda. However, he has been busy
all over doing the opposite. Murkomen might have escaped by the skin of
his teeth from being purged from the chairmanship of Rift Valley Senators and
MPs’ Parliamentary Group but he should watch out. The Swahili saying goes: “Ukiona cha
mwenzio chanyolewa, tia chako maji.” (Which means if your neighbour has some
misfortunes, prepare yourself for same). 
What former NASA Senate Minority leader Moses Wetang’ula went through is
still fresh in our minds. Hopefully, the Majority leader now knows a thing or
two about rocking the boat from within. Apart from accusing “some forces” domiciled
in State House for the hurdles bedeviling a section of JP, some of Ruto allies
have been haranguing former Premier Raila Odinga day and night for the DPs
tribulations. Amid the pressure cooker that is Jubilee,
Raila ‘s recent decision to mend fences with Uhuru is the silver bullet the
country needed so bad. And just for the record, 
Raila’s quest for peace and tranquility was not a thread woven to create
more tension. We all remember the country was rolling and swirling into an
abyss, thanks to last year’s bloody elections. Those throwing mud at him could as well be
engaging in a futile shadowboxing exercise. 
The handshake is here to stay, unless the world ends tomorrow. So those
who are still burning the proverbial midnight oil dreaming and hoping the
handshake will be reversed are living in utopia. They are daydreaming. They
should start getting comfortable with those smiles and hugs the President and
Raila are enjoying. Raila has never been the reason Jubilee is
tethering on the edge of destruction. It is Jubilee’s fate that internal peace
is a scarce commodity because its foundation was built on feet of clay.
Whatever was keeping the major shareholders glued to each other is now water
under the bridge. It is now self-destruct galore. Is that ODM’s leaders fault? Nope! The meeting might have succeeded in forging
a semblance of a united front but it was not lost to political observers that
the abracadabra in Jubilee is not over. Nevertheless, I believe Murkomen and others
in his league have embedded the avalanche of cautions they received at the
meeting somewhere in their medulla oblongata.  