Are the jitters in the Mt Kenya region a confirmation the chickens could have come home to roost so soon for DP William Ruto (pictured)? Some ODM supporters are smiling ear-to-ear as Ruto resistance grows in a region he thought would automatically “rudisha mkono” in 2022. Some ODM supporters are likening Ruto to a child who doesn’t learn from the past or listen to elders. They say he should read the chronicles of Raila 2007-2013, which goes like: “Baba in 2002 delivered the presidency to the region, but it turned against him once he declared interest in the top seat.” As one supporter asked: “What made Ruto believe they would support him?” But then again, as they say, only time will tell. ***** Following claims of cruel treatment of local workers at the standard gauge railway project and Madaraka Express by their Chinese bosses, Kenya Railway MD Atanas Maina has promised to investigate and take action against the culprits. But how will calling on contractor China Road and Bridge Construction to compile a report on the incidents and hand over to him yield any results? Pundits told Corridors the Kenya Railways and the government are helpless given what they owe China. ***** Known for their aggression, most matatu operators don’t condone new entrants to their stations. But the reception accorded the NYS buses that compete with them for passengers has left many observers surprised. However, a little bird whispers to Corridors the warm relations are not out of nothing; the matatu operators are said to be colluding with their NYS counterparts to siphon fuel from the buses, which are grounded most of the day and only operate in the morning hours and even lesser in the evening. ***** The wife of a second term MP is stressed after she borrowed money from her staff and sunk it in a fraudulent pyramid scheme. Corridors has learnt she has not been able to pay back the cash two months down the line. Most of the employees gave her all their salaries. She approached them after they were paid. Meanwhile, the husband is busy with a new catch whom he has already introduced to his parents in Western Kenya. ***** So, what became of the much-hyped “Panda Miti, Penda Kenya” initiative by the Environment ministry? The initiative that was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta on May 12 at the Moi Forces Academy seems to have fizzled out, just like the Nairobi River cleanup after it. Corridors has learnt that some key agencies such as Nema that were sidelined yet they are supposed to have been playing a central role are not too amused.