Three MPs want the government to help legendary Kikuyu pop musician Joseph Kamaru, who is critically ill. Nominated MP Maina Kamanda, Muturi Kigano (Kangema) and Alice Wahome (Kandara) visited Kamaru yesterday. They said the government should not wait until his death to “turn up in sleek limousines” for his burial. The 80-year-old musician developed back pain in April. Speaking at the musician’s Homeland home, Kamanda urged Kenyans to offer financial support so Kamaru can seek advanced treatment. “He has been around for decades and has taught great life lessons to many,” the lawmaker said. Kigano and Wahome said the country should not wait until it is too late. Kamaru’s family said his back problem has affected his walking. In April, the musician was compelled to go public and deny rumours that he was dead. “I’m alive; tell my fans and the extended family that I am well and recuperating,” he said. The rumours started after he was admitted at Avenue Hospital, Nairobi, from an undisclosed illness. Kamaru started his singing career in 1956. For the better part of the 1980s, his vocals were a signature tune in most music stores.  He recorded nearly 2,000 songs addressing morality and offering life teachings. The songs stamped his status as a Kikuyu music legend who touched East Africans’ hearts with classic hits such as Gathoni and Charia Ungi. Although the younger generation may not be familiar with him, those who grew up in the ’80s recall he was a force to reckon with as far as Kikuyu classic music goes. Growing up in Kangema, Murang’a, Kamaru said music was part of him long before he recorded his first song. Speaking to the Star yesterday, the musician called upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to help him get medical attention. “I want to bless the President and the land of Kenya because it is the only home we were given. I also wish Kenyans lived in peace and love.” In the late ’70s, Kamaru had a good relationship with President Jomo Kenyatta, but the two fell out after he wrote a song condemning the murder of JM Kariuki in 1975. Kamaru was also close with President  Daniel arap Moi. In 1980, Kamaru toured Japan as part of Moi’s entourage. After the visit, he composed Safari ya Japan, praising the President. Moi was however unhappy with Kamaru’s support for multiparty democracy in the late 1980s. In 1993 Kamaru switched from secular music to gospel and disbanded his group, the Kamaru Supersounds.