A Baringo MCA who went missing on Sunday was found yesterday in Gicheha farm, Rongai subcounty, Nakuru. Silale ward representative Nelson Lotela was allegedly abducted by four armed people at 4pm on Sunday near Nginyang River in Tiaty. He was found in a maize plantation and taken to Kabarak health centre. Police are investigating. Some local leaders had accused the government of Lotela’s disappearance because of his stand on banditry. But Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula warned against reckless statements. He said the government had no hand in Lotel’s ordeal. Wafula said the MCA was found in good shape, but promised to get to the bottom of the matter. “I’ve instructed my officers to go to the ground to get information. Once we get finer details, we’ll get back to the public,” county police commander Smallets Munyanzitold the Star on the phone. On Sunday, Tiaty MP William Kamket had appealed to the government to produce Lotela alive. Lotela yesterday told reporters he had left his home at around 3pm for Chemolingot where he stayed for two hours. Later on his way to Nginyang, a double-cabin car followed him closely. Its occupants stormed out and blocked his car. “At the junction, we lost the car  only for it to resurface at the bridge. Four armed youth dressed in T-shirts stormed out and forced me and my driver out of our car,” Lotela said. Blindfolded He said the abductors slapped him in the face, tied his hands and bundled him into their boot. “They drove to Mogotio and stopped on the way at Marigat, took me out of the car, blindfolded me and forced me to lie down,” he said. His driver was left behind tied and blindfolded — next to the MCA’s car. He later freed himself and drove the car to Nginyang police station. Lotela said the abductors conversed in Kalenjin and Kikuyu languages.  Once again he was bundled into the boot and they proceeded to Kabarak where they took him out of the car and ordered him to kneel, he said. “At this point, I knew they were going to kill me. I waited to hear them cock the guns, but after five minutes heard the car leave. “I quietly waited to hear someone speak, but to my surprise, when I opened my eyes, they had left. I crawled and held to a fence,” Lotela said. The doctor attending to him told journalists that a “weak and exhausted” Lotela was received at the facility at around 8am. Accuse police in banditry war Lotela has had run-ins with the authorities. On May 3, he and Saimo-Soi MCA Richard Cheserem were summoned to record statements at the Kabarnet police station for accusing the police of protecting bandits. “As leaders, we’ve already forwarded the entire list of armed bandits to the security officers, but they are still left free to continue attacking and raiding the neighbouring communities,” Lotela said during a peace race in Loruk, Baringo North, on April 28. Following the summonses, Baringo North DCI officer Andolo Munga said the two were called for questioning over security issues. “It’s just issues of security, nothing else,” he said, adding investigations about the pair were ongoing. In May last year, Kamket (then-Baringo county assembly speaker), Lotela and MCA Daniel Tuwit (Ripko) were charged with inciting and funding banditry attacks among Pokot residents in Tiaty and the neighbouring Tugen, Ilchamus, Turkana, Samburu and Marakwet pastoral communities. Kamket and Tuwit later opted to work with with security officers to end banditry and cattle rustling. Lotela insisted that police had to apprehend the armed bandits. “Security officers should not take pride in intimidating leaders and harming innocent people, yet we already submitted to them the list of all the notorious armed criminals,” he said. Similar disappearances The MCA has also been steering security efforts to end border conflicts along the oil-rich Turkana East and Kapedo near Lomelo, Silale and Nadome. He had told the media the Turkanas were fanning crossborder fights to take over Silale — the location of the Geothermal Development Company. “They sought to push us [Pokots] towards Loruk in the neighbouring Baringo North. We had to resist them by all means,” he had said. In a near-similar incident in May last year, the late Churo-Amaya MCA Thomas Minito went missing. His  body was found three days later near River Oldonyo-Sabuk in Machakos county. Before then, Minito had been summoned by police from Kabarnet station. In March 14 last year, two Tiaty politicians, then-Loyamorok MCA Kibet Cheretei and then-MP Hopeful Kitambaa, were shot dead by masked gunmen at a Marigat nightclub in Baringo South.