The government will soon start buying green grams as part of the country’s strategic grain reserves. Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday said this will help the country to meet its domestic needs. He said the government will support farmers to increase their income. “We’ll soon treat green grams as part of the strategic grain reserve so that they can be bought by the government just like maize. This is why it’s important for you, leaders, to attend tomorrow’s [Sunday] meeting to deliberate on the matter,” Ruto said in Tharaka Nithi. This came after county leaders appealed for help. “As we thank the national government for its efforts to improve our roads, we also ask for help for our green grams farmers by identifying markets for their produce,” Governor Muthomi Njuki said. Read: Ruto promises fence along Meru National Park, markets for green grams Ruto said the intervention would be geared towards value addition to enable the farmers to sell in the local and foreign markets. “We also have an agreement with the Indian government, which assured us of the green grams market. But the huge demand for this crop in the Asian market also calls for us to boost our production,” the DP said. He said Makueni, Kitui and Tharaka Nithi leaders and officials from the ministries of Devolution, Agriculture, Security and Public Service would meet to deliberate on how to implement the plan. Ruto launched the Keeria-Magutuni-Kathwana road and the proposed KMTC at Chuka Hospital and Kamaguna Secondary School. He said the government will deal with human-wildlife conflict. Njuki had urged the national government to solve the problem of human-animal conflicts. Ruto said Sh100 million has been set aside this financial year to build a fence around the Meru National Park. “We will work with MP Kareke Mbiuki who is also the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources to ensure this problem is solved,” he said. Sh600 million will be used in the county in phase two and three of the Last Mile Connectivity project. This will boost manufacturing — part of the the Big Four agenda, Ruto said. He said Jubilee has connected 26,000 households to electricity, up from 11,000 in 2013. Ruto told parents to make use of technical training institutes so their children acquire knowldge and skills needed in the job market. This will end shortage of artisans, plumbers, masonry and electricians, he said. “The government’s new policy is that all students joining technical training institutes will benefit from higher education loans and bursaries, just like those joining universities,” Ruto said. The government is negotiating with development partners to build a Sh26 billion mega dam in the county to fix water shortage. Ruto asked leaders to focus on development, instead of politicking all the time. “Time for politics is now behind us. Let’s concentrate on activities that concern the citizens and which need our attention. We are through with issues of competition, politics and elections,” he said. “Elections will be there in another five years. For now let’s fulfill the promises we made to the electorate during campaigns.”County leaders thanked the government for its commitment to solving residents’ problems. Senator Kithure Kindiki warned lazy road contractors that they risk losing their tenders. More: Coffee farmers to get Sh1.5b subsidy - Ruto Click here for
the latest political news