More Kenyan boys than girls are likely to engage in sex before the age of 15, a UN report has revealed. It says with that comes the increase in boys’ chances of contracting HIV and other STIs. The report, ‘Women: At the Heart of the HIV Response for Children’, was launched this month and presented last week at the International AIDs Conference taking place in Amsterdam. The United Nations Children’s Fund findings on Kenya contrasts with the trend in many other countries, where more girls than boys are likely to engage in sex before they hit 15. Countries exhibiting a trend similar to that in Kenya are Lesotho, Zambia and the Dominican Republic. Globally, the annual new HIV infection has declined slightly since 2010 by an average rate of 2.6 per cent each year. About 30 teenagers aged 15 to 19 were infected with HIV per hour last year, according to the Unicef report. Of these, two-thirds were girls. The report says 50 per cent of boys in Sub-Saharan Africa and 69 per cent of girls do not use protection during sex, despite having multiple partners. The report indicates that low levels of knowledge of HIV and the risk behaviours “such as age-disparate sex, transactional sex and condomless sex” have made adolescents vulnerable to acquiring and transmitting the virus. The effect is that teenagers have a high record of Aids-related deaths than any other age gap, the report says. Last year, about 21,000 adolescents aged 15–19 died of Aids-related causes. Adolescents between the ages of 10 and 19 account for almost two thirds of the three million 0-19 year-olds living with HIV. The report further reveals that only 17 per cent boys and 23 per cent girls in Eastern Africa have knowledge of where to go for a test. Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said in most countries, women and girls lack access to information, sexual health services, or even the power to say no to unsafe sex. “This is a crisis of health as well as a crisis of agencies. HIV thrives among the most vulnerable and marginalised — leaving teenage girls at the centre of the crisis,” Fore said. Director of Medical Services at the Health ministry Jackson Kioko yesterday told the Star lack of awareness among the young generation could be blamed for the increased infection among adolescents. “This age group — of adolescents — is less protected than any other. Most parents are ashamed to discuss sex-related topics with their children, despite having them move into adulthood because of our cultures. This has contributed to the increased infection among teenagers,” he said.