Counties have been asked to implement the ban on shisha after the High Court on Thursday dismissed an application to reverse the order. The Ministry of Health and Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance yesterday said the ban should be fully implemented. Businessmen had moved to court to reverse the ban. Speaking to the Star on Friday, head of tobacco control at the ministry Dorcas Kiptui said shisha smoking has been secretly going on. KTCA chairman Joel Gitali said consumption of tobacco is on the rise hence the need to incorporate tobacco control to alleviate health related challenges. “The crackdown on counterfeits and contraband must be escalated. The police and the county government must work together for this to succeed," Gitali said. In the last two months, the government has seized cigarettes valued at more than Sh800 million in the crackdown on contraband. The World Health Organisation (WHO) lists tobacco smoking as one of the biggest public health threats. Tobacco kills up to 50 per cent of its users and is a major risk factor for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and chronic respiratory ailments. Read:Shisha ban: A doctor's view on why you should drop that 'dirty' pipe Tobacco products include cigars, cigarettes, water pipe (such as shisha) and dissolvable nicotine products and smokeless tobacco such as electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes). Joel said KTCA will go to the counties to ensure the ban is enforced. “Judiciary has proved to be responsible and dependable in championing the welfare of Kenyans. We can now confidently go to court to have violators of TC policies punished,” Gitali said. Data from the ministry indicates that about 10 per cent of Kenyan youth aged between 13 and 15 use tobacco products while 90 per cent of adult smokers begin the habit while in their teens or earlier. The ban on shisha came to force in December last year after it was imposed by then Health CS Cleopa Mailu. The government banned the sale, advertisement, promotion and distribution of shisha in Kenya. Also Read:Court declines to lift Shisha ban for a second time, cites public interest Click here for the latest political news