A Kiambu court has been informed parts were missing when a postmortem was done on the body of a man alleged to have died due to strangulation. Kiambu principal magistrate Justus Kituku on Thursday was told Peter Macharia’s thyroid cartilage and windpipe were missing so the exercise could not reveal whether he died from strangulation caused by a rope found around his neck. Lawyer Beth Fundi, representing the family of Macharia, informed the court there was a first postmortem conducted, but the family sought a second one. Fundi said the second post mortem was performed in the presence of all parties including the three pathologists who performed the first. They were all in agreement there were crucial missing body parts, which was not mentioned in the first postmortem. Fundi prayed to the court to compel Kenyatta University Funeral Home, where the body was preserved and a postmortem conducted, to produce the missing body parts and for the police to be enjoined in the matter and a third postmortem be done to ascertain the cause of death. Read: Ex-state pathologist denies stealing heart, released on Sh1 million bond ‘NOT THOROUGH’ The court was asked to grant stay orders that no one should come into contact with the body nor should the body be moved for burial until the body parts are found. Last Friday, drama unfolded in Gitamaiyu village, Kiambu subcounty,  after a family refused their son to be buried by his wife and refilled a dug out grave and planted a banana tree, saying justice must be done first and the circumstances that led to his death be revealed. The family who are yet to come to terms with the death of Macharia said their actions were driven towards seeking justice for him. He is alleged to have committed suicide infront of his wife. They said since no one had been arrested and a fresh probe should be done on the circumstances that led to the death. It is said Macharia, 43, was found with a rope around his neck in his house. His wife Esther Macharia was at home ant said her husband committed suicide. Neighbour Johanna Machua said that at around 1am, the wife came home and told him to accompany her to her home. Johanna said he found Macharia seated on the stairs with a rope around his neck and that is when he called in the chief and police were informed and later the body was taken to mortuary. Macharia’s family said they read mischief from the wife as she did not scream or raise the alarm yet the family lives right next to them and they were the only two in the house when the incident occurred and the police seemed not to be thorough in their investigations. More: Heart theft meant to frustrate me, doc says in bid to block case Click here for
the latest political news