Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday said he was not aware state officers were colluding with Patel Dam owners to talk victims out of compensation claims. The Senate committee chaired by Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr had accused government administrators, led by county commissioner Joshua Nkanatha, of leading the coverup. The dam burst its wall on May 9 and left 48 people dead. The owners were charged last month with manslaughter in a Naivasha court. Yesterday, Matiang’i promised to investigate the claims and report back within 30 days. “I’ll ask for an investigation to be carried out. Whoever is culpable will face the full force of the law,” he told the legislators. Last week, dam owner Perry Mansukh told the committee he gave Sh35 million to a committee comprising county government officials to give to the victims as his compassion for them. Families were reportedly given from Sh100,000 to Sh1 million. But the senators say the money was meant to influence the survivors so they do not pursue further damages. Read:I'm not aware of 'forced compensation claims' for Solai victims - Matiang'i Matiang’i said he had no knowledge of the payout made through his officers. Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja retorted, “It’s difficult to take the position. There’s no way you can be unaware when we were informed by your CAS here two weeks ago. Senator Mutua added, “In fact, the CAS undertook to check and report back to us.” Two weeks ago, Interior CAS Patrick Ntutu promised to investigate and take action. The legislators demanded immediate suspension of the county commissioner and officers who distributed the cash. They said some officers have stepped aside on claims of much less offences. “No government action will get the confidence of the victims if it is done by the same officers. It will be compromised by those officers,” Sakaja said. Mutula told Matiang’i to crack down on his officers in Nakuru. He said they had prior information that the dam was leaking but failed to take action. “There were serious and grave issues before and after the Solai tragedy. We want to see you in your usual self so the people of Solai feel they’re also Kenyans,” he said. Click here for the latest political news