Companies are spending millions of shillings annually on legal fees and ignoring alternative dispute resolution options. Kenol Kobil revealed in its financial results ending June last year a surge in its operation expenses by 41 per cent (Sh399 million) to Sh1.36 billion. This was due to settlement of long-standing legal cases. In October, High Court judge George Odunga awarded lawyer Tom Ojienda Sh264 million in legal fees arising from five cases in which he represented City Hall in 2014. The fee was to be paid by the Nairobi government. “Courts are detrimental to businesses. They are slow and expensive and are more about settling scores and not the health or future of a business,” commercial litigation and innovation advocate Jackline Munyaka told the Star in a phone interview. An analysis by the African Law Firm advocate shows to file a case at the High Court, one may need to pay between Sh35,000 and 70,000 depending on the claims. Instruction fees for the lawyers range between Sh45,000 to Sh120,000 for claims between Sh500,000 and Sh1 million. Those claiming above Sh1 million will pay an additional 1.5-2 per cent of the claimed fee. Other costs include the lawyer’s fee and costs fee on the side of the losing party. For legal opinions or consultancy, firms or individuals may part with upto Sh35,000. Judge Lee Muthee of the United Nations Mechanism for international Criminal Tribunal said parties can also not be sure of getting justice because “ its an era of graft” “The uncertainty of the outcome in this country is unfortunate. Judges and magistrates don’t always decide their cases on the law of evidence alone,” Muthee said. Advocates are guided by the Advocates Renumeration Order of 2014-15 on how to charge their fees. A look at the order shows that for any party making a claim of upto Sh10 million, they are expected to pay an advocate a minimum of Sh700,000 inclusive of fees for preparing a trial. The lawyers instruction fees on the same claim stands at Sh300,000 Muthee called on businesses to adopt mediation and arbitration to solve their cases. During an interview with the Star, he said “mediation saves time, maintains relationships, and is less expensive.” To increase adoption of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, Munyaka advocates for a legal change to make mediation and arbitration mandatory. She said this will make Kenyans more cautious before playing the “see you in court” option. 