Kitui County Assembly has thrown out five nominees presented by governor Charity Ngilu to the membership of the Kitui Municipality Board, saying most of them are too old to serve. Those rejected are Dr Musyimi Mbathi, Badi Muhsin, Stanley Muluvi Kiima, Canon Simon Muoko and Linda Syokau Kimoli. The five were set to join other four members who were vetted and approved by the Assembly on June 28, 2018. Four of the five members rejected on Thursday were interviewed by the County Public Service Board before their names were forwarded by Governor Charity Ngilu to the Assembly for vetting and approval. Kimoli was to replace Charity Mutanu Kyunguti whose name had earlier on been rejected by the house when the first batch of nominees was presented. But in a heated debate presided over by the temporary speaker David Thuvi, the MCAs took issue with the list of the nominees and unanimously shot it down. House Majority Whip Stephen Musili objected the report saying the list was unconstitutional. “This report goes against the spirit and letter of our constitution. It does not reflect regional balance,” said the Kyuso ward representative. Musili noted that the narrative that the nominees have to come from within the municipality doesn’t hold any waters as the guidelines are clear to the effect that there might be other people from outside the municipality. “Today we are making a very clear statement that people have to do their work and this house shall no longer be taken for granted,” he affirmed. Ikutha MCA Geoffrey Mwalimu said some of the nominees were way past retirement and thus totally unacceptable. “How long will these people work before they retire?” he asked. His sentiments were echoed by Migwani Ward MCA Philip Nguli who termed it “unfortunate” for vacancies in the county to be taken up by retirees at the expense of the youthful job seekers. “Whenever a vacancy arises, it is grabbed by the retirees and I want to urge this Hon. House, that we stamp our authority and reject this list in totality and take it back to the sender,” he said. Click here for the latest political news  