The government is planning to construct a modern Gikomba market at Sh3 billion over the next two years. Deputy President William Ruto made this announcement on Sunday during a service at African Independent Pentecostal Church in Kayole, Nairobi. He said the construction will give traders better places for business and help prevent perennial fires, the latest incident having left 16 dead and at least 60 injured. Ruto said small scale traders will be prioritised in the Nairobi regeneration plan and that hawkers will not interfere with their work. “We have a challenge with Nairobi traders and the largest market has been burning every year," he noted. Read: Gikomba traders barred from rebuilding stalls to pave way for modern market Also read: What ails Gikomba market? Speculation reignited by yet another fire Ruto made several promises on development, noting that he and President Uhuru Kenyatta will be judged based on what they do to improve Kenya. He touched on corruption in drawing a comparison with authorities such as the DIC, the DPP and the EACC. "Those involved in investigations will be judged [based on the justice they dispense], wastage, mismanagement, corruption and the people they take to court," he said."Let everyone do their beat in moving the country forward." Related: Ruto prays for Big Four, end of corruption on National Thanksgiving Day The DP said Nairobi residents have been ignored in development due to its proximity to the 'big office". His pledges for the capital included the repair of city roads, supply of water as well as the construction of technical training institutes, hospitals and other facilities built. He said Sh4 billion was set aside for roads and a contractor identified. "We have vowed that in three months we will issue over 30,000 title deeds," he added and asked individuals to take initiative in the acquisition of titles. Regarding the supply of water, the DP said the Northern Water Collector Tunnel was 60 percent complete and that the President will soon commission Karemenu two and Ruiru three. “We will work will work leaders to ensure we have clean water. Do not think Nairobi is forgotten,“ he said, adding that hospitals in Kariobangi and Nyayo will be completed in six months to decongest Kenyatta National and Mama Lucy hospital. Read: Uhuru issues 50,000 title deeds to Nairobi residents Click here for the latest political news