Kenyans on Twitter attacked Senator Kipchumba Murkomen after he thanked Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa for treating him and others to meat at the weekend. Photos of people including Deputy President William Ruto, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege were shared on social networks after the treat at Njuguna's restaurant along Waiyaki Way in Nairobi County. KOT criticised the leader saying he posted "non-issues" while members of the public suffered. "Africa has a long way to go if this is what a person at your level can post. I am in tears," '@kelienick' said. Cleophas Muthama said the tangatanga squad is hungry for everything, examples being food, money, land and power. He said he would pray for the politicians. The phrase arose from a remark by President Uhuru Kenyatta about Ruto's many tours across the country. Ruto says this is part of his work as DP and that he does not need anybody's permission to visit and serve Kenyans. More on this: [VIDEO] I don't need permission to 'tanga tanga', I must serve Kenyans - Ruto Also read: Expert comment: Tangatanga squad is a liability to Ruto '@sirngure' asked Murkomen if the photos he shared were necessary since many children, in parts including his Elgeyo Marakwet County, go to bed hungry. He said it would have been easier if the Majority Leader had shared the photos with the others on WhatsApp. '@PChelimo' added: "Really? Must you post these here? Senator, some things are meant to be private. People don't need this." Steve Juma termed Murkomen and the others primitive. "Apparently Murkomen thinks that by posting this photo, Kenyans will identify with them on the basis of eating similar foods," he tweeted. "This is a very unhealthy diet that doesn't need publicity. What an unfortunate situation we are in." Moses Omolo wrote: "No worries. You enjoy nyama (meat) while Kenyans enjoy the smell from the vicinity. Anyway, bora uhai (it's better to be alive)." Dennis Kosgei was also of the view that the photos amounted to the mockery of Kenyans, "especially those from Marakwet and others who can't afford to put food on their tables because of the mega corruption in every corner of the country". "The so-called leaders of today ... such a shame," Kosgei said. The politicians went for lunch after a service at All Saints Cathedral.  /COURTESY During the service, Ruto kept the succession debate alive, saying that contrary to public perception, Kikuyus do not owe him anything. Meanwhile, a new Kikuyu political song titled Tutiri thiiri wa mundu (Hatuna deni ya mtu, Kitaeleweka) is enjoying popular acclaim in Central Kenya. The track by Kimani wa Turacco brings to the fore the robust political debate in vote-rich Mt Kenya region, on whether to back Ruto in 2022 to reciprocate his support for Uhuru in the 2013 and 2017 elections. More on this: Kikuyu song fuels Ruto 2022 debate Click here for the latest political news