FIDA wants teachers at Moi Girls plus their union (KUPPET) investigated for allegedly attempting to derail ongoing rape investigations. On June 2, the Star broke the rape story at the school, an incident that led to dissolution and reconstitution of the school board and sending home of the school principal. Police investigations aimed at unravelling the identity of the perpetrator are nearing completion with the matching of DNA samples from 32 men and those collected from the victim is ongoing at government chemist. However, on Wednesday, the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers released a report published in one of the dailies concluding that the alleged assault was by a 'lesbian' colleague ideally excluding men from the crime. “Even before investigations concluded, KUPPET in conjunction with the teachers released theirs. It's hogwash. We want to know why and who KUPPET is trying to shield. They should also be put to task for attempting to derail ongoing investigations,” FIDA chairperson Josephine Monga're said. “No person will want to go through all those tests and put on medication if actually they were not raped. What KUPPET is trying to do is try to criminalise the student, humiliate her and cow her so as she runs away. But we will not agree to that we will stand by her all the way,” she said. Read: Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? Separately political activists Brian Weke and Kibera Laini Saba MCA Cecilia Ayot expressed disappointment with KUPPET. Weke is a parent at the school whereas Ayot is among those behind protests to press for swift action. “It is the first time we are hearing about the issue of lesbianism in the school. When the matter was reported there were eyewitnesses that actually noticed there was a man in the compound and at no point during the investigations did we hear anything about lesbianism,” he said dismissing KUPPET report as mere hearsay and unprofessionally compiled to shield teachers. “Their narrative is to paint the children in bad light and this report will worsen the current rift between teachers and students,” he added. Ayot termed KUPPET as mischievous vowing to exploit all avenues to put them to task over the report. “KUPPET is busy clearing the name of the school at the expense of the children. Where does that leave the girl that was defiled? It was also unethical for The standard newspaper to report the case in the manner in which they did,” Ayot said. Also read: Six quizzed as Moi Girls Nairobi is closed over rape allegations Click here for the latest political news