Obama's homecoming Thirty years ago, Barack Obama, 27, kicked off a journey of self-discovery to learn more about his heritage and his father, who hailed from the sleepy village of Kogelo. Years later in 2015, Obama arrived in Kenya aboard Air Force One, chauffeured around in a heavily armoured limousine, as the 44th President of the United States. On Sunday, the 44 US President landed at JKIA without all the hype that met his last trip to Kenya three years ago in his first trip to Africa after leaving office. So, as he makes a third trip to his ancestral home in Siaya county today — as Private Citizen Obama — it’s likely to be an emotional moment for a man who had very little time to interact with his father. And as he makes this particular trip, Obama has recommended books by African writers that people should read saying "each illuminates our world in powerful and unique ways." Ruto's comeback Deputy President William Ruto has been in the spotlight especially given the generosity that has seen him donate millions at fundraisers in aid of churches. Some leaders, including former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, have questioned the source of his enormous donations, which he makes nearly every weekend. On Sunday, Ruto lashed out at critics who have been castigating him for his huge and frequent donations to churches. He said they spend their money on witchcraft. Challenging Ndengu Revolution In October last year, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu launched the Ndengu Revolution. The aim of the Sh100 million programme was to make green grams Kitui’s key cash crop to help end the vicious cycle of hunger and create wealth for residents. But brokers and profiteers have taken advantage of the lack of the promised market and are buying the ndengu for between Sh30 and Sh45 a kilogramme. The green gram glut appears to have become a curse rather than a blessing for Kitui farmers City Hall debt relief Nairobi MCAs have approved City Hall's request to engage lenders to offset a Sh4.2 billion loan from Kenya Commercial Bank. The county government is grappling with a huge debt of Sh57 billion. The executive said the debt was affecting service delivery and asked the assembly to allow it borrow from lenders with favourable terms to offset the KCB loan which was taken in 2014. EDITORIAL The Star Editors note that with President Uhuru Kenyatta vowing to end corruption, DPP Noordin Haji, DCI boss George Kinoti and the EACC have forged a team working with synergy, urgency and purpose. TODAY'S WEATHER: Kenyan winter continues NAIROBI: Partly cloudy. High 23ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Partly cloudy. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 15 to 30 km/h. KISUMU: Generally clear. High 28ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news