DJ Poizon Ivy, real name Ivy Awino, is flying the Kenyan flag high. She left Kenya and moved to Texas when she was nine, and since then, she has been working towards creating the best future for herself. Speaking to Word Is, she said she started working for the NBA’s Dallas Mavericks when she was 14. All she did was carry water and sweep around, because she knew that once inside, she would get to her dream of becoming a sports manager. The best thing about working there is that it is her favourite team and so she enjoys every day of it. At the age of 19, she got a chance to audition to be the next NBA Dallas Mavericks DJ. She lost at first but then got a call later and was given the job, where she worked hard to prove herself. This was her first biggest milestone before becoming a mother. Yes, Poizon Ivy is a mother to an amazing four-year-old daughter, whom she mentions almost always. She says despite all she has achieved in her career, nothing beats being a mother. So after she got the job, she has done nothing but bring the best to the table. She says getting there was a step ahead of so much, but the best thing is she enjoys her job, and waking up every morning to go to work gives her joy. Poizon Ivy's other greatest achievement was when a documentary was done about her life thus far. One time a Fox journalist brought Ivy to her show and when she gave her story, the journalist, Heather Hays (whose daughter goes to the same school as Ivy's) said her story was too good not to be told. Then when it was time for the Emmys, she submitted the video, Faith and Fate (name of the documentary). Heather gave Ivy a call and told her she had submitted the documentary. Before they knew it, it was nominated and then it won an Emmy. Poizon Ivy is overwhelmed by all this. "So Heather could not make it for the Emmy award show, but she sent someone to pick the trophy. When I got the news I was overwhelmed. We later went for dinner to celebrate and she came with the trophy and I could not believe it. An Emmy trophy with my name." All she can do is thank God and be an example to her daughter that anything is possible. She says if you want something, you have to work towards it and you will see it come to pass. Poizon Ivy aims to be a mentor to anyone she meets through the normal day-to-day conversations.   