Frankly, I was horrified by life, at what a man had to do simply in order to eat, sleep, and keep himself clothed. So I stayed in bed and drank. When you drank the world was still out there, but for the moment it didn’t have you by the throat. This is an excerpt from Charles Bukowski’s novel, Factotum, which follows an unemployed alcoholic named Henry, as he makes his way from one job to the next. For the purpose of this article, pay as little attention as possible to the alcoholism bit of the excerpt. Focus instead on the following words: ‘What a man has to do simply in order to eat, sleep, and keep himself clothed’ — for this is how we live, this is the system, and I’m saying it can’t be right. What is this that a man has to do simply in order to live? Let’s take your average Joe. He’s a driver for a rich man. Joe has to leave his one-roomed dwelling very early, while it’s still dark, in order to make it to his employer’s house in time to drive the boss’s kids to school, and then the boss to work. He’ll sit around for awhile at the office, maybe read the paper while having some tea. By midmorning, though, Joe has to have driven back to the house to pick mama up for her hair appointment, and after that, chauffeur her to the supermarket. But, if Joe runs into traffic, while driving across town to get back to the house, mama will give him a dressing-down. And average Joe will stand there and take it and apologise for Nairobi traffic. This grown man will take being admonished like a child because he has a wife and kids living upcountry who depend on him for food, shelter and clothing. What he’s getting out of all of this in terms of remuneration is not enough, it’s the reason he can’t live with his family in the expensive city. The world has this Joe by the throat. But what is there to be done? This is the system, this is how things work. It’s the only way. Or is it? There’s this global idea proposed called Universal Basic Income (UBI). This is where every adult, whether employed or not, receives from a government a sum of money that is enough to meet his, or her, basic needs. This free money comes without conditions, and you can do with it what whatever you want. Many a lip has curled at the thought of free money, and it has been said that this would encourage laziness and frivolous spending. But remember, even those who work, get free money. So, while it is possible that some people will laze about, it is more likely that more people will still work. Because this means more money, and who doesn’t want more money? More importantly, proponents of the idea believe that UBI means freedom. Their theory goes, if a group controls resources necessary to an individual’s survival, that individual has no choice but to do whatever the resource-controlling group demands. Thus, that individual is not free. But with Universal Basic Income, our average Joe could choose to go home to his family and they’d still eat, sleep, and keep themselves clothed. This free money would in effect be buying something the system has taken away from many of us — our human dignity. I wouldn’t call that frivolous spending.