A recent job
advert seeking to fill the post of the managing director of the Kenya
Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) got me thinking about the whole enterprise of
state broadcasting. As my generation
grew up, all we knew as the real
source of news was KBC. Back then radio was the dominant channel since
television was for the privileged few. But that was then. In today’s booming
broadcasting atmosphere, replete with tens of radio and TV outlets, KBC
should endeavour to redefine its role and deliberately differentiate itself
from other media houses. Why and how so? First, the art of statecraft
depends a great deal on how and who communicates key messages to the citizenry,
particularly where broad buy-in is the ultimate objective. In this regard, it
is the duty of a state broadcaster to deliver crucial buy-in for sectors that
hold the key to social and economic progress of a nation. That buy-in is huge dividend
to taxpayers who fund the state broadcaster. On the part of
commercial media outlets, the dividend is tethered to the balance sheet and
bottom-lines. Though intangible and perhaps elusive too, backing the
government agenda—say the Big Four—is crucial in changing
fortunes for all, including commercial media outfits. As we enter deeper
into the era of building bridges, buoyed by the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga, KBC
bears the moral duty of spearheading the craft of cooperation for the good of
all Kenyans. The task of branding Kenya and refurnishing her soul and
consciousness with a deeper sense of nationhood, tolerance and brotherhood
should primarily be undertaken by KBC. There is need to realign
state broadcasting to build on
existing and potential relationships among various communities, age-sets,
religious persuasions and cultural orientations. To do this, a thorough
understanding of barriers that stand in the way of the much-desired unity of
Kenyans is important. It should therefore
be the solemn duty of a state broadcaster in our evolving democratic journey to
flesh out and counter obstacles that block the view of uncannily similar
dreams, aspirations, hopes and fears that an overwhelming majority of Kenyans
have in common. Features focusing on the common or twined ancestries of Kenyan
communities as well as storylines that reveal elements of the shared destiny
and desires of various communities can take on a new look and purpose with a better
informed and less ethnically jaundiced citizens. Who do Kenyans need
to steer KBC into a new dispensation that responds to the demands of Kenya’s
statecraft in the context
of the 21st Century? In my view, while
industry knowledge is critical, it is far from enough. Having, as I do, a
background in the Fourth Estate, I would be the last person to underestimate
the need for professional qualifications in building credible leaders in broadcasting. However, the responsibilities of the vision driver for a state
broadcaster demand more than being articulate in expression, possessing managerial
acumen to lead a team or having years of experience in a conventional media
house. The ideal leader of
a state broadcaster ought to be possessed of fundamental knowledge of the art
of statecraft. He or she should, in particular, demonstrate a depth of
awareness of national priorities that can—through ingenious packaging and
delivery of information—transform Kenya into a more progressive and stable
nation. That person should
be flexible and versatile enough to easily break away from convention and play
the role of vending hope, even when real or perceived gloom pervades our social
milieu. More importantly, that person
should have the pull of a cult leader if he or she is to transform the existing
workforce at KBC to embrace a new regimen guided by unmistakable public
spiritedness. Woman Representative, Murang’a county