At what point do most adults feel comfortable farting in front of a romantic partner? Surprisingly, men and women are in agreement on this one: about nine months. Porch surveyed over 1,000 adults to learn when is the right time to let inhibitions go and start doing embarrassing things in a relationship. And though, for the most part, men feel ready to let loose before women — they're sooner to stop dressing well and even pee with the door open — they wait just as long to pass gas in front of a significant other as women do. First, people in relationships were asked to share how long they waited to do certain personal things. While men said it would take just 10 months before they'd let a partner pop their pimples, women said that timeline was closer to a year and eight months. Men would wait 13 months before using the bathroom with the door open (compared to 14 months for a woman), and eight months before telling a partner his or her flaws (compared to a year for a woman). But both men and women said it takes about nine months before they are okay with passing gas openly in a relationship. The only thing women were quicker to do was cry, saying they'd do so after five months. Men said 11 months. The survey also had single people predict when they'd feel comfortable doing some of those things. Interestingly, single men guessed it would be a year and 10 months before they'd check a partner's phone, though men in relationships said they did so after a year. Single women guessed it would only take them six months to check a partner's phone, but those who are attached said it actually took them 13 months. In general, single men predicted it would take them longer to feel comfortable doing something than it actually took for men in relationships — while single women predicted they'd be ready to do things sooner than those in relationships said they were. Divorced people, meanwhile, had an entirely different take on when it is appropriate to do certain things. When asked how long they would wait the next time around, divorced people in the survey generally said they'd do things sooner than they did before. When it comes to farting, they said it would take just eight months. They'd also only wait only seven months to leave the bathroom door open. In fact, they'd do everything within the first year of a relationship excepting letting a partner pop pimples. Click here for the latest political news