The first ever High Dependency Unit for public maternal wards was yesterday opened at Coast Provincial General Hospital. The Sh14 million facility is expected to reduce maternal mortality and still births. It was build by the Mombasa county government in partnership with Safaricom. The county build the infrastructure at a cost of Sh8 million while the firm bought equipment at Sh6 million. The hospital's chief administrator Iqbal Khandwala said the unit is the biggest in the country. It has an ultramodern eight-bed capacity. Each unit has a modern bed fixed with oxygen supply. Khandwala said the hospital receives about 60 referrals every month from other counties. "The mothers come with complex obstetric conditions like high blood pressure, severe bleeding and severe malaria," he said during the launch yesterday. It has a diagnosis system and rapid laboratory testing services. CPGH board chairperson Margaret Othigo said maternal mortality has reduced to 362 from 488 per 100,000 in 2013. She said more family doctors were needed to to handle the many referrals. reduce fatalities at the referral hospital. These doctors, she said, will be stationed at dispensaries and health centres. The chairman said staffing remains a challenge, a situation that has often resulted to burnouts and poor services. "We also need to have more doctors trained. This HDU needs more nurses and semi-ICU trained personnel," Othigo said. Governor Hassan Joho said the hospital was in a dilapidated state in 2013. "Human resource and staff morale was at its lowest. Basic services were poor," Joho said. The governor said theft of health funds at Afya House partly contributed to poor services in county hospitals. ​Safaricom Foundation Trustee Rita Okuthe asked regional counties to work together to improve health services. challenged the Jumuia ya Kaunti za Pwani to work on common purposes. She said Mombasa can become a centre for medical tourism in the next three years. "We can have an oncology centre. Five thousands Kenyans travel to India annually to seek cancer treatment. They can instead come to Mombasa," she said. 