Police have summoned top managers of five sugar millers whose brands were found in seized contraband consignments. The orders were issued even as Rai Group of Companies MD Jaswant Rai was questioned on Friday. The directors have been ordered to record statements at the DCI officers beginning 9am today. “I can confirm that we have summoned them. They will be required to give us detailed statements on how contraband sugar went into the market with their labels,” DCI director George Kinoti said yesterday. Read: Sugar has no mercury but contains copper, lead - KEBS Rai was questioned by Parklands DCI officers after four firms linked to the family were found to have imported sugar last year. He was grilled for close to three hours at the DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road. He said his company had imported one million tonnes after the government allowed sugar importation in May last year. He denied having sold sugar to Diamond Wholesalers where 2,000 bags of contraband were seized in Eastleigh last month. Interior CS Fred Matiangi claimed the sugar contained harmful chemicals including mercury. But last week Matiang’i did an about-face, telling MPs he could not confirm whether mercury was in the confiscated sugar. MPs are investigating how contraband sugar was allowed into the country. They have since summoned Matiang’i, his Cabinet colleagues Mwangi Kinjuri (Agriculture), Aden Mohamed (Industrialisation) and Henry Rotich of (National Treasury). Read: Sugar probe: I can’t confirm sugar has mercury, Matiang’i tells MPs There were glaring contradictions among the ministers. Matiang’i said contraband cooking oil, fruit juices, fertiliser and tomato ketchup have also been seized. He said the products may contain harmful metals. He told the joint committee co-chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega and his Mandera South counterpart Adan Haji that he was hesitant to commit himself to a conclusive test that the sugar had no mercury. The CS said his previous remarks that some of the sugar had mercury were a precautionary measure to the public, based on investigations done by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation. Read:Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Click here for
the latest political news