 Historically, populist movements in the US have arisen in
response to periods of economic hardships. This is beginning with the Greenback
and Granger movements in the 1860s, through most recently the so-called Tea
Party movement that sprung up in the wake of the financial crisis in 2008. Although
the movement came to be, as a result of the meltdown in the US economy,
especially in the financial sector, the movement would soon morph into
something else — an effort to block or defeat then President Barack Obama’s
agenda, driven in part by racist motivation by some in the movement. Within weeks, Tea Party chapters began to appear around
the US, using social sites such as Facebook to coordinate protests. Conservative
loudmouths such as Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Peck spurred them on.  According to Britannica, the generally libertarian
character of the movement drew disaffected Republicans into its fold, and its
anti-government tone resonated with members of the paramilitary militia.
Obama served as a powerful recruiting tool, as the Tea Party ranks were swelled
by the “Birthers”, who claimed Obama was not born in the US, thus illegible to
serve as President. These racist Birthers  soon had Donald Trump as their leader. Even though the Tea Party movement as a force had fizzled
to non-existence by the time Trump vied in 2016, the 2010 mid-term elections
saw the Republicans gain approximately 60 seats in the House and reduce the
Democratic majority in the Senate. Many observers credited this performance to
the interest and enthusiasm generated by the Tea Party. Like the populist movements in the US, we have had our
share of movements, beginning with the First Liberation that fought for
Independence, which had heroes such as Dedan Kimathi and founders of the nation
Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. We then had the Second Liberation that took shape on July
7, 1990 and propelled the country into a period where the government did not
have a chokehold of people’s lives. In an opinion piece in the Star by Imende Benjamin and
Eliud Kibii, the two journalists opined soon after the mangled non-election
presidential elections of last year that former Prime Minister and opposition
leader Raila Odinga is now leading what could be the Third Liberation. The
writers noted that the movement would be pegged on devolution and the fight
against “state capture,” which has seen past elections rigged to maintain the
status quo, a vice Raila and like-minded hope to quash through local and
international efforts. State capture is a type of systemic political
corruption in which private interests significantly influence a state’s
decision-making in the interests of a clique. Raila has repeatedly said, and it’s true Kenya cannot
conduct free, fair and credible elections because of state capture and, because
of this, Raila has sworn that never again will elections be rigged in this
country “even if I'm not contesting.” “I don’t have to always be on the ballot, but I want my
candidate or whoever will be on the ballot to participate in a free and fair
contest,” Raila said. In this, what we all hope is the last liberation push to
finally place Kenya on track to realising its true independence, the
72-year-old former Prime Minister promised to take on the status quo and their
state machine on two fronts – reorganise the government and lobby global
support. Raila says he will push for full devolution (federalism), economic
freedom and guarantee individual liberties to challenge state intrusion. It is coming to almost one year since he embarked on this
journey and undoubtedly the most significant of his life. To be sure, there were many months of anger, depression
and uncertainty in that order following the last in your face and thuggish
theft of presidential and other elections, but we yet again avoided the worst
in response by Raila once again rising up as a statesman and accepting Uhuru’s
extended hand for a handshake. Will the handshake produce the next and hopefully last
liberation of Kenya? We certainly pray and hope so.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States 