Paul Ogai has been named the interim coach of National Super League side, Western Stima. Ogai, who is the current Kisumu All Stars assistant coach, takes over from Ugandan Richard Makumbi who has been asked to step aside. “I’m helping the team prepare for this weekend’s fixture against Kibera Black Stars,” said Ogai. Western Stima chairman Laban Jobita said Makumbi has not been sacked but has instead been asked to step aside in order to explain incidents of indiscipline during the team’s 4-1 loss against Sofapaka in SportPesa Shield game in Narok over the weekend. He said Ogai, formerly of the defunct Palos FC and Agro Chemicals, will in the meantime handle the team assisted by Dan Omondi. Makumbi yestrday confirmed he has been asked to keep off the team’s training and explain the ‘poor performance’. Makumbi, who still has a two-year contract with Stima, said: “I have done my letter and sent it to the team management. I don’t know what they call poor performance because the team is in second place in NSL having lost only two matches,” he added. He denied claims that he had lost the dressing room. “My relationship with the players is very cordial. However, I have had issues with my assistant but we have always sorted them out. When I came, I found a disjointed squad but I have built a team,” he added. Makumbi further added: “I will meet the management on Wednesday (topday) so that they can tell me my fate. If it’s parting ways, we do it amicably. I have coached top clubs and I have a market. Where I come from, they say where you leave, do it amicably because you might be back.” He defended his record saying when he joined the team last year, the team had played 26 matches and had 16 points. Under his stint, they have played nine matches and reaped 16 points. “We are currently in second position and we can be number one because we still have a lot of matches. It is not the right time to make changes in the technical bench but I’m not afraid of being sacked because I was not found on the streets,” noted the Ugandan.