President Uhuru Kenyatta has made key changes to his administration, swapping two Cabinet Secretaries in changes that saw allies of Opposition chief Raila Odinga get plum state jobs. Uhuru also appeared to have sacked Public Service and Youth Affairs PS Lillian Omolo who was charged in the Sh468 million scandal at the National Youth Service. In the reshuffle announced on Friday, Trade and Industry CS Adan Mohammed was moved to the Ministry of East Africa Community. He swapped places with Peter Munya. The former Meru governor was appointed to the Cabinet in February. Read:Raila's campaign team members land Uhuru's appointment Adan, who believed to be a nominee of Deputy President William Ruto, is among Cabinet Secretaries who have been under fire for the contraband sugar that has flooded the market following last year's waiver. Two weeks ago, the Kikuyu Council of Elders asked the President to sack Adan and his Treasury counterpart Henry Rotich for the sugar mess. Key staff at the Kenya Burea of Standards, a critical parastal in charge of quality assurance and inspection under the Ministry of Industrialization are currently facing prosecution. They include KEBS boss Charles Ongwae who has been charged with abuse of office for approval of substandard fertiliser through fake stamps. Munya, a lawyer by training, will now be part of the team spearheading Uhuru's Big Four agenda which includes manufacturing, universal health, affordable housing and food security. “President Uhuru Kenyatta has this afternoon made changes in the Cabinet and Diplomatic Service as part of his ongoing efforts to re-engineer the government inline with his Big Four development blueprint,” State House deputy Spokesperson Kanze dena said. In the changes, Uhuru nominated Francis Owino to become the new PS for Youth, replacing Omolo. Omolo stepped aside in May following the NYS scandal. Read:Uhuru welcomes Fatuma Ahmed, Kenya's first female Major General Its not clear weather another PS for Public Service will be appointed. Esther Koimett, an investment banker who was working as the director general for public investment and portfolio management at the National Treasury was nominated to become Transport PS. Koimett is the daughter of  former Cabinet minister Nicholas Biwott. Biwott died last year. Collete Suda was appointed Chief Administrative Secretary in  the Ministry of Education and also PS in charge of State Department for University Education. Suda served as PS for Science and Technology during Uhuru's first term. She has been nominated to a docket that was held by Japheth Ntiba who was moved to the state department of Fisheries, Aquaculture and The Blue Economy. Former West Pokot governor Simon Kachapin was moved from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Energy as Chief Administrative Secretary. Environment PS Charles Sunkuli was transferred to the department of Devolution. Susan Mochache replaces him at his former office. Nelson Marwa was moved from Devolution to Social Protection, Pension and Senior Citizens Affairs as PS. Zainab Abdalla was moved to the department of Correctional Services while PS Alfred Cheruiyot moved to the department of Post Training and Skills Development. Joe Okudo was re-appointed as PS for Tourism with Margaret Mwakima named the PS for Wildlife. Ibrahim Mohammed was also reappointed ato serve as PS for Labour and Fatuma Hirsi named to head the Broadcasting and Telecommunication department as PS. Uhuru also nominated nine new ambassadors although their stations were not named. These include former SRC chairperson Sarah Serem and State House Spokesman Manoah Esipisu. It remains unclear why Esipisu was moved. In the list of new envoys are a number of key allies Raila in what is seen as fruits of the handshake. They include former Energy Minister Ochilo Ayacko, former Kabondo Kasipul MP Paddy Ahenda and Peter Nicholas Ogego. In a surprise move earlier in the week, Raila asked Ayacko to withdraw his petition against Migori governor Okoth Obado, telling them to reconcile. Ogego, a career diplomat, was at one time the  consulting director for the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Foundation. Other envoy nominees include Lt. General Samuel Thuita, former CID director Ndegwa Muhoro, Johnson Ondieki, Chris Mburu and former Ainamoi MP Benjamin Langat. Ondieki was the commander of the UN peacekeeping force in South Sudan who was dismissed by former UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon after a damning report showed the mission failed to protect civilians during violence in Juba. A UN special investigation found that lack of leadership by the the UN mission in South Sudan (Unmiss), headed by Ondieki, culminated in a “chaotic and ineffective response” during heavy fighting in the capital between 8 and 11 July in 2016. The government later withdrew the troops following the sacking. 