Ugandan Opposition leader Kizza Besigye yesterday chastised the international community for ignoring electoral fraud in Africa out of selfish interest. He said the West supports the status quo for the sake of stability but, in the process, facilitates gross transgressions against democracy. Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga said the West routinely changes its position depending on their interests. The two spoke in Nairobi during the launch of a new book, Kenya: The failed Quest for Electoral Justice, by journalist John Onyando. Besigye congratulated NASA leader Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta for their political truce but urged them to use the opportunity to engineer meaningful and long-lasting change for Kenya. He lashed out at Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni’s administration “for perpetrating corruption, using big money”. Besigye has unsuccessfully run for President in Uganda’s 2001, 2006, 2011 and 2016 presidential elections. He lost all of them to incumbent Museveni. He has been a constant critic of the Museveni administration and has previously accused him of presiding over massive rigging of elections. Besigye is no stranger to run-ins with the Ugandan authorities. After the last General Election, he was placed under house arrest after he told his supporters to protest peacefully against the results. The FDC presidential candidate had garnered 34 per cent of the vote against 62 for Museveni. On May 11, 2016, he swore himself in as president — a day before Museveni’s swearing-in ceremony. He said the country was in a “unique and unenviable place” of not running as per the country’s constitution. The Ugandan Army arrested him moments after the ‘oath’. He had worked with Museveni before they fell out. The book he launched yesterday delves into the intricacies of the last General Election and the behind-the-scenes intrigues that accompanied the NASA presidential campaign. It examines the management of the election, media coverage and the controversies that dogged the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The author, who worked with Raila’s campaign said, “I have warned that if that vacuum is not filled, Raila will go back to it. He is the most astute politician I ever worked with. I think the others are his students.” The book captures one of the turf wars between Raila’s daughter, Winnie, and the head of Raila’s presidential campaign secretariat, Willis Otieno. “One day in June, campaign consultants from the Aristotle Group from the US were introduced to the staff by then Kisumu Senator Anyang’ Nyong’o who spoke briefly about the campaign, then left the floor to Otieno to introduce secretariat members,” Onyando writes. “When Otieno reached Winnie, he simply said, ‘This is Winnie Odinga, also a member of the team’. Winnie cut him short, saying, ‘I am not in his team; he is the one in my team’.” The book reinforces the arguments of the NASA presidential petition that led to the annulment of the August 8 poll results by the Supreme Court. Besigye was the chief guest at the launch. He said western powers have failed to understand that there can never be sustainable peace without justice. “They need to revise their template and invest with us in sustainable stability and peace underpinned by justice,” he said. At the height of NASA’s quest for electoral justice, Raila and US Ambassador Robert Godec traded barbs over the legitimacy of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “Those envoys are hypocrites. Stop interfering with our business. We are no longer a colony,” Raila had protested on February 12, after Godec insisted that NASA recognise Uhuru as duly elected. Mutunga was among the six judges who dismissed Raila’s petition in 2013. Yesterday, he said Kenya needs an opposition leader urgently. “Raila has vacated the position of ‘people’s leader of opposition’, a vacuum that must be filled urgently by an alternative progressive leadership,” he said. 