The Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs has approved former Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju's nomination as chairperson of the Commission on Administrative Justice. Also known as the Ombudsman, the office is mandated to investigate abuse of power, unfair treatment, injustice and unfair or unresponsive official conduct of public officers. Kajuju succeeds Otiende Amollo who was elected Rarieda MP in the August 8, 2017, General Election. Washington Opiyo Sati, and Lucy Kamunye Ndung’u, who were nominated as members of the commission, were also approved. Kajuju was approved despite a memorandum received from a petitioner Mbae M’Mbijiwe contesting her suitability. Committee chairman William Cheptumo said the memorandum did not constitute a sworn statement, hence inadmissible. Read: MPs reject Ben Chumo's nomination as SRC chair over integrity "It was received on July 10, 2018, which was after the stipulated July 9, 2018, deadline for submission. It is not a written statement on oath as required by Section 6(9) of Public Appointments (Parliamentary Approvals) Act, 2011," the report reads in part. Kajuju and members of the commission will be appointed for a single term of six years, and are not eligible for re-appointment. The committee said Kajuju's academic credentials, professional training and experience are extensive. The MPs said she meets the requirements of Section 10(1) and (3) of the Commission on Administrative Justice Act of 2011 . Read: Uhuru nominates Kenya Power ex-CEO Ben Chumo as SRC chair "She has more than 20 years experience as an advocate of the High Court; she holds a law degree from the University of Nairobi," the report says. "She meets the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity having been cleared by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Kenya Revenue Authority, the Registrar of Political Parties, the Higher Education Loans Board and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission." The committee said her experience in the 11th Parliament and her tenure in various public entities will add value to the commission. Click here for the latest political news 