President Uhuru Kenyatta has been asked to intervene and end the ongoing conflict between the Pokot and Marakwet communities. On Sunday, armed gangs killed one person at Embobut forest while another one was injured and is recuperating at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Speaking in Bungoma on Monday, West Pokot leaders led by Governor John Lonyangapuo said they were saddened by growing tensions and the retaliatory attacks by the two communities. “We are surprised and dismayed by the recent raid in Kamaley area of Pokot South constituency where bandits from the Elgeyo Marakwet community attacked locals from the Pokot community killing one person while the other one was injured. Nothing was stolen, there is counter fights, we condemn it, we want the government to arrest the criminals and disarm people with illegal guns,” he said. Lonyangapuo called for peace among residents of Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. Pokot South MP David Pkosing asked the government to move with speed and arrest the situation before it escalates. “We are appealing to the government to arrest the conflict before it escalates further. The select killings create fear and make people to move, let Marakwet leaders look at this as a community issue but rather a criminal issue,” he said. Kapenguria Mp Samwel Moroto urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to send security agencies to quell the situation. He said if this does not happen, the leaders will advise people to protect themselves by all means. “We will not sit down and watch as our people are being massacred. If the government won’t heed to our advice, we will tell our people to protect themselves by all means possible,” he said. Sigor MP Peter Lokachapor condemned the attack and called for the peaceful coexistence by different communities. “Three weeks ago the Marakwets were ordered to return the cattle they had stolen during the raid. They have only returned four cows out of 91, they are not ready to cooperate for peaceful coexistence,” he said. The MP called on the state to flush out criminals hiding in Embobut forest and causing havoc. West Pokot Woman Rep Lilian Tomtom called on the government to move with speed and save the situation. “The biggest causalities are always children and women, the thuggery will detail development in the two counties,” she said. Other leaders present were Senator Samuel Poghisio, Mp William Kamket (Tiaty) and Mark Lonumokol (Kacheliba).