“I am in so much pain, every time I get out of that machine my life is never the same, day by day my body gets weaker and weaker,” these are the words of a 29 years old Loise Wanjiku, whose both Kidneys have failed. Wanjiku has been going through dialysis twice per week for survival since 2014 at Alliance Medical centre, Nairobi. The single mother from Kayole is now appealing to the public to help her raise money for transplant. Her 12-year-old girl stays with her mother at their rural home. Currently, Wanjiku is being accommodated by her brother who is willing to donate to her one of his kidneys. 'I can’t keep on surviving through dialysis as it has its own side effects and I develop complications every day,” she told the Star on Friday. “I have developed chest pains because of the curvature, my body is weak. I cannot stand for long,” she added. Her's is a cry of pain. Literally. Wanjiku says though NHIF card caters for the cost of dialysis she has to buy drugs from her pocket which is quite expensive. She was diagnised in 2014 at Kenyatta National Hospital. “Before going for test my whole body was swollen, I had constant diarrhoea, my blood levels went down to five. I couldn’t eat and I was sleepy all the time," she said. “It was a shocking revelation, I saw my life coming to a stand still, I looked at my daughter and I couldn’t help crying,” she said. Wanjiku had to be admitted at KNH for two months for her condition to stabilize. The hospital bill was Sh200 000 but luckily it was waved. Before her condition, she used to work as a hairdresser in a salon in Nairobi. She cant work anymore. Wanjiku says since then her life took an ugly twist as many of her friends walked away. “Unless I get a transplant I will never be able to bear children. That’s what I was told by my doctors. I have always wished to be there for my daughter just like any other parent, but with my condition I cannot,” she explained. “I had to sent my daughter to our Njoro home in Nakuru county where she now stays with my mother. Wanjiku said that she has so far been able to raise Sh478 000 through a Facebook group called Single and saved. “It was my brother who came up with this idea, he posted my plight on the page and after discussion with the group administrator Dayan Masinde, members agreed to be contributing some amount,” she said. The group has also establish a project of selling caps and T-shirts which goes at Sh200 to raise the amount needed. Kihia said that she’s optimistic that they will be able to raise the amount and that her sister will be back on her feet. “It has never been easy, every day is a struggle but am optimistic that will raise the amount and Wanjiku will be well,“ he said. Phyllis Thion’go Dialysis nurse in charge at Alliance Medical Center Nairobi says Kidney failure condition among Kenyans is increasing daily and that there is a need for regular medical checkup. “Weekly at our center alone we receive 23 to 30 new patients with kidney failures, this means that the ailment is on the rise,” she said. Thion’go who has been attending to Wanjiku for years says that she had prolonged high blood pressure, which was never discovered earlier. She said dialysis for patients is never a permanent solution. “Kidney patients mostly have an underlying cause, many of them have chronic disease like diabetes, hypertension,” Dr Thiong'o said. Mathews Koech a doctor at St Oak Tree Kidney center and chronic diseases in Eldoret said treatment after the transplant is also very expensive. “When patients undergo dialysis for too long they usually develop other complications like deformities in bone structure and cardiac ccomplication which kills most patients,” he said, a transplant is always the best,” Statistics shows that one in every ten people has a related Kidney complications. His advise if for people to avoid strong painkillers, herbal medicines and they should constantly go for medical checkups. Click here for the latest political news