Roads are set to improve following the announcement by City Hall and Kura that construction of Sh4.1 billion roads will start in two weeks. The county will also use a huge chunk of the Sh5.4 billion allocation for infrastructure in the current financial year to revive at least 42 projects that stalled in previous years. Transport executive Mohamed Dagane said Sh2.7 billion of the Sh4.1 billion will go towards construction of roads, drainage systems and pedestrian walkways in 11 constituencies in Eastlands. The projects will be undertaken by three Chinese firms — China Wu Yi Company Ltd, Sinohydro Corporation and China Roads and Bridges Corporation. “Each of the contractors will work on three roads at a go because we want these roads to be ready within one year,” Dagane said. Some Sh1.4 billion of the amount will be used for rehabilitation of roads in the CBD, Westlands and Upper Hill areas. The projects will be undertaken under the Nairobi Regeneration Programme and will be jointly funded by the county and the national governments.  EXORBITANT FARES Thirty-eight roads totaling 79.4km will be repaired in Eastlands and 174.23km of roads will be done in the CBD, Upper Hill and Westlands. “These are critical roads that require immediate attention, particularly those in the CBD. They have been identified under a joint programme. In the next two weeks, contractors will be on the ground,” Dagane said in an interview with the Star last week. The rehabilitation of the roads will be a relief to city residents who have been charged exorbitant bus fares due to impassable roads. Governor Mike Sonko has been accused of failing to repair the roads. Some of the roads set for rehabilitation are Falcon in Viwandani, Mihango access road, Likoni Link in South B, Muthiora in Kawangware, Donnholm, Maji Mazuri in Kasarani, Upendo and Kayole Spine Link Road. Others are Huruma, Juja, Njiru, Rabai, Nile, Hamza, Shimo la Tewa, Kampala, Lunga Lunga, Muigai Kenyatta, Cardinal Otunga, Mathare 4 access, Baba Dogo access, Moi Drive Link and Catherine Ndereba roads. Dagane said the county will not start any new projects other than the ones it is jointly undertaking with the national government, but will instead channel the Sh5.4 billion development allocation for the Transport sector towards the completion of stalled projects. Many contractors had abandoned projects due to nonpayment. Dagane, however, said some of the contractors have gone back to the site as the new administration paid them Sh760 million.  NO ABANDONING PROJECTS “Our sector had Sh4.6 billion worth of projects that was committed by the previous government, but these works have stalled at various levels,” he said. “So, all these are infrastructure works and we cannot just abandon them. If we abandon them, then what are we going to do?