Until the lion learns how to write, every story will glorify the hunter — African proverb. Kenyan politics since Independence resembles a graveyard of broken hopes and dreams replete with casualties of battle-hardened political war veterans. The first casualty was Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, who declined the presidency after being offered it on a silver platter by the then Colonial Governor Sir Patrick Renison when he stated, “If I accept your offer, I will be seen as a traitor to my people. The British cannot elect me leader to my people...Kenyatta is around, just here in Lodwar. Release him and allow him to lead us; he is already our choice.” These words changed the course of Kenya’s political history forever. Jomo Kenyatta was released from detention not long afterwards and became Prime Minister of Independent Kenya in December 1963 and President in 1964. Jaramogi became Vice President. Barely six years later, Jaramogi would swap places with Kenyatta in detention, the latter jailing his benefactor and VP over ideological differences that culminated in a confrontation in Kisumu in 1969 during which tens of people were killed. Joseph Murumbi became Kenya’s second VP, between May and December 1966. Uncomfortable with the corruption, power games and increasing authoritarianism in government and the assassination of Pio Gama Pinto, he was a reluctant VP, despite being a trusted confidante of Kenyatta. He goes down in history as the only VP to voluntarily resign in Kenya. Daniel arap Moi was appointed VP in 1967. His was a troubled tenure as members of Kenyatta’s kitchen cabinet and a coterie of mainly Central Kenya politicians picked every possible opportunity to frustrate him. Moi bore his tribulations stoically and managed to overcome “the change the Constitution group”, whose sole intention was to disqualify him from succeeding Kenyatta. Then Attorney General Charles Njonjo managed to rein in the anti-Moi conspirators and, upon Kenyatta’s demise, Moi became the second President of the Republic of Kenya. He appointed Mwai Kibaki VP and Njonjo Minister for Constitutional and Home Affairs. Kingmaker Njonjo had other ideas of his own and considered Moi a weak leader whom he could dislodge at a moment’s notice. After the 1982 attempted coup, Moi decided to purge his party and Cabinet of figures he had established wanted him out of power. Chief among them would be Njonjo, who was dragged through a judicial inquiry, which concluded that he had abused office and had tried to take over power from Moi. He was forced to resign, thus effectively putting an end to his political career. Kibaki was unceremoniously replaced in 1988 by Dr Josphat Karanja, who served for a year before resigning abruptly to avoid an ongoing vote of no-confidence in Parliament engineered by Moi. After the 1988 General Election, Moi appointed George Saitoti VP. He became Kenya’s longest-serving VP, serving 13 years between May 1989 and January 1998, and again between April 1999 and August 2002. Despite the long service Moi did not hide his disdain for Saitoti, publicly castigating and eventually replacing him with Musalia Mudavadi in 2002 and anointing Uhuru Kenyatta his successor in the same year. Saitoti was later to tell a group of confidantes after downing cognac, “I feel pain. I have been betrayed.” Uhuru and running mate Mudavadi lost the 2002 presidential election to Kibaki, who appointed ‘Uncle’ Moody Awori VP. An amiable pleasant elderly gentleman, he served out his term only to lose his parliamentary seat in 2007. The 2007-08 post-election violence saw ODM (K) leader Kalonzo Musyoka become VP in a boardroom deal, only to be betrayed by Kibaki at the eleventh hour in 2013. William Ruto has held the office of Deputy President since 2013. He has all along appeared to be the heir apparent. Matters however began going south after the 2017 presidential election. There are hints of either an imminent betrayal or a clipping of wings. Is history about to repeat itself?