President Uhuru Kenyatta has congratulated steeplechase
winner Beatrice Chepkoech and Timothy
Cheruiyot for their impressive performance at the Diamond League Championships
in Monaco. Uhuru stated that the two did well and the whole country was
proud of them. "Hongera Beatrice Chepkoech for breaking the 3,000m
steeplechase world record and Timothy Cheruiyot for setting the new world lead
in 1500m respectively at the Monaco IAAF," he said. "Well run, we all won. Kenya celebrates you." Deputy President William Ruto, in his congratulatory message, told Beatrice
to take a bow as the world was now at her feet. "A glorious feat.  Beatrice, take
a bow. The World is at your feet," the deputy president said. Sports Cabinet Secretary Richard Echesa also sent his congratulatory message to the young lass. "Congratulations Beatrice. Kenya celebrates you for making it this far," he tweeted. Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet said the National
Police Service is proud of Beatrice's performance having exceeded the earlier recorded by more than 8 seconds. Beatrice, 27, on Friday ran for 8.44.32 minutes
beating the record set by Bahrainian Ruth Jebet’s record of 8:52:78 minutes in
Paris two years ago. Ruth Jebet is among the athletes facing disciplinary action for alleged doping. Timothy won the men’s 1500m run and  set a new record of 3.28.41 to take
home the full 8 points beating his own record of 3.31.22. The 22-year-old lad has won numerous awards which include the
Shanghai Diamond League 1500m, Bowerman Mile at the Eugene Diamond
League, 1500m race at the Rome
Diamond League series in 3:31.22. The IAAF Diamond League also praised the two stars stating
that Beatrice should take a bow for smashing a world record. "Beatrice Chepkoech didn't just break the world record for
the women's 3000m steeplechase. She smashed it." "Can anyone stop Cheruiyot right now? The star sets a
new world lead of 3:28.41 to take home the full 8 points in the men's 1500m!" Beatrice bagged a silver medal during the Commonwealth Games meet in April. She was beaten by gold medalist Caster Semenya. Semenya acknowledged that Chepkoech is a great talent but
urged her to always believe in herself. The South African national won the women's 800m run in a record of 1.54 minutes. Read: Chepkoech breaks women's steeplechase world record at Monaco meet Click here for the latest political news  