45 Degrees Kitchen serves gourmet food influenced by cuisines from Ghana, Italy and France. The rustic interiors of dining room in this former farmhouse have a cosy feel. But since it was a sunny day, we ate lunch outside on the balcony. There are more tables on the veranda under wide umbrellas, and the relaxed country atmosphere lends itself to a leisurely meal. 45 Degrees is the brainchild of a husband-and-wife team of Rose and Harold Sena-Akoto. Ghanaian-born Akoto is the executive chef with 30 years of global culinary experience. Their vegetables come from their home garden and other organic farms, and they operate an ingredients-driven menu. So the meals could change from week to week, depending on what is available. We ordered a number of starters to share. The Tempura Fried Chicken with Avocado Salad and the Spinach Tortellini with a Porcini Mushroom Sauce were particularly delicious. Beef Consommé soup with chives would have been ideal in the evening or a cold day. Rose said visitors to Kenya like trying African dishes, such as the Fisherman’s Stew of red snapper, lobster, shrimp in coconut milk and flavoured with East African spices, or the Giant-cut rib-eye steak from the Morendat farm, which is known for premium beef. For the main course, I had a wonderful Ghanaian-style Tilapia smothered in a spicy tomato sauce and accompanied by plantain chips and rice. I tasted the Pan-fried Salmon with saffron caper cream, Kenyan beans and mash potatoes and found it tasty and tender. I also sampled and enjoyed the Pan-fried Duck Breast with orange glaze, jasmine rice and Bok Choy. 45 Degrees also offers serves a good selection of vegetarian items. With the various starters and main course items, there are suggestions of suitable wines to pair with the food. From the children’s menu, we ordered pasta, pizza and matchstick potatoes. After their meal, the children quickly left the table to play in the bocce ball court. In the dessert selection, the Flourless Chocolate Cake with chocolate dipped strawberries sounded delectable. But I was too full to eat anything more because all the meals are so generously portioned.  Location: Marurui Road, Garden Estate, Nairobi Access: Thika Highway Contacts: +254 0705 150898  Star Rating: 4.5/5