Unity government to shelter NASA? President Uhuru Kenyatta is working on a government of national unity that he could unveil at any time. Credible sources in the presidency have confidentially told the Star that Uhuru has discussed the issue with ODM leader Raila Odinga as part of the national unity project. The trend towards power-sharing is a longstanding solution and has been utilised as a conflict resolution tactic or preventive action solution in other instances. In a first in Kenya, former President Mwai Kibaki took this route when he was threatened by impeachment and a hotly contested referendum. Ruto's 'close relations' with Uhuru Meanwhile, Deputy President William Ruto has reiterated that there are no divisions in Jubilee Party. Ruto said on Saturday that the government is working well and that he has a close working relationship with the President. Private developers on 14-day notice The Nairobi government has issued a 14-day notice to private developers who have encroached on public land and road reserves. Governor Mike Sonko has asked land grabbers to demolish illegal structures or face forced eviction. Last week, Sonko pledged to ensure grabbers of public land face the full force of the law. Boys at higher risk of contracting HIV A UN report has revealed that more Kenyan boys than girls are likely to engage in sex before the age of 15. With this comes the increase in boys’ chances of contracting HIV and other STIs. The United Nations Children’s Fund findings on Kenya contrasts with the trend in many other countries, where more girls than boys are likely to engage in sex before they hit 15. Lamu Old Town's eroded charm Lamu Old Town was listed by Unesco in 2001 in recognition of its efforts to preserve its culture and heritage. However, it has now been placed on the World Monument Fund Watch list as being under threat from forces of nature and modernity. Amid all the conservation talk, a small but steadily growing community of boda boda operators seems unbothered, as long as they put food on the table. Your weather Nairobi - Thunderstorm. Average temperate of 23ºC, wind speed of 13 kmh/h. Mombasa - Scattered showers. Average temperature of 28ºC, wind speed of 14 km/h. Kisumu - Scattered thunderstomrs, average temperature of 28ºC, wind speed of 11 km/h. Click here for the latest political news