“There he is!”
I blurted out to no one in particular as I came up the steep escalator onto the
upper floor of Hall 1 at Art Basel, Basel. Ibrahim Mahama — his
latest work, that is — dominated the entrance of Unlimited, the section of the
fair reserved for monumental art. Compared to the four other sections, Unlimited is a Brobdingnag sort of place, where a Boeing 747 would get lost in. Mahama’s Non-Orientable Nkansa II,
brought to Basel by White Cube, London, and Apalazzo gallery,
Brescia, is a hulking assemblage of hundreds of old, wooden and metal boxes used
by shoeshine boys in Ghana to ply their trade. Rusty nails, pliers, soles,
fabric, sewing threads, ancient cans of shoe polish, etc., jutted from nooks and
crannies. The shrine-like installation, a monster prop from a Mad Max movie,
loomed above mesmerised fairgoers click-clicking and flashing away with cameras. A
mixture of fascination and elation was palpable around the
stupendous artistic statement by the 30-year-old Ghanaian wizard best
known for his old jute sacks drapes of architectural structures around the world.
Here he was, sharing with Basel his take about life of artisans
and the varied reinterpretation of their histories.  A GROWING HEFT Non-Orientable
Nkansa II wasn’t the only star attraction at Unlimited, its
emplacement by the curators as Exhibit-1 among the 72 works by
renowned artists was a pointer to Africa’s growing heft in the citadels of
global art. In past decades, rare was the artist from the continent or
in the Diaspora who made dealers or curators cut at Art Basel or
any of the major fairs in North America, Europe or Asia. Cameroonian
Barthelémy Toguo also had a pride of place at Unlimited. His 10x4m canvas Rwanda 1994 isn’t among
his best works. However, the subject matter, the Rwandan genocide, carried such
an evocative pathos of the permanence of evil in our midst it became the
exhibit that attracted the most pensive throngs. Yours truly was among those
who bent a knee in silent prayer in front ofRwanda
1994. “As an African artist, I seek to evoke in my own way
this large-scale crime which traumatised the entire world, and particularly the
African continent,” Toguo said of his Guernican oeuvre. Malawi-born
London resident Samson Kambalu took us down memory lane with his Mboya Series, a set of black
and white photos of Tom Mboya assassinated in Nairobi at the peak of his career
as foreign minister under first President Jomo Kenyatta. Represented by Kate
McGarry, London, the work is an uncanny juxtaposition, in the same frame, of
iconic photos of another Kenyan son, President Barack Obama. Zanzibar-born,
UK-based artist Lubaina Himid, 64, oldest person and first black woman to
win the Turner Prize (2017), made it to Art Basel at the Feature
section. Himid’s exploration of slavery, racism, and colonialism through
deceptively naïve compositions in bright acrylics cut a soothing dash at
London’s Hollybush Garden booth. Ball
on Shipboard, a group of blind slaves in modern summer clothes on
board a slaver’s ship, was acquired by a North American museum for £110,000. Africa’s
presence at the fair included South Africans Mikhael Subotzky and Patrick
Waterhouse with their Ponte
City 2008-14, a photographic odyssey capturing life within the
54-story circular behemoth that blots the Johannesburg skyline. Built for
whites under Apartheid who fled for the suburbs in the Mandela era, Ponte City has been
appropriated by hundreds of families, impoverished migrants from rural South
Africa and economic refugees from across Africa. Brought to Basel by
Goodman Gallery, Ponte City was
bought by the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art for an undisclosed
figure.  SERIOUS MOOLAH Cameroonian artist
Pascale Marthine Tayou’s Colourful
Stones (2018) found a buyer at €85,000. Nigerian-Brit Yinka
Shonibare MBE sold two sculptures for £135,000 each, acquired by Greek and
Belgian collectors. Swiss and Spanish collectors bought six sculptures by South
African William Kentridge priced between
$95,000-$300,000. Zimbabwean Mishek Masamvu sold a painting for
$19,000. Works of El Anatsui, Candice Breitz, Zanele Muholi, Simphiwe Ndzube,
Kemang wa Lehulere, Nicolas Hlobo, Robin Rhode, etc, now routinely appear on
the fair’s secondary market. While
one should rejoice for Africa’s artists earning some serious moolah, at
last, there’s this sinking feeling when a major creation disappears into
galleries and private collections far away. Perhaps, as many as 90 per cent of the
works of Africa’s most renowned artists are located outside Africa. The
stark implication is this: their creativity and life’s achievement are at the
reach of everyone but Africans. This is a damning indictment that can be
remedied only when the continent’s moneyed class and institutions begin to
collect. Seriously. Mahama’s Non-Orientable Nkansa I was
shown at Art Basel Miami in 2017 and was acquired by the
Margulies Collection, Miami. One hopes that Non-Orientable Nkansa II, bigger and more
stunning of the two, and which is in the process of being acquired by a North
American museum, will find its way back to a museum in Ghana. One day. For a
show, at least!