With only three IEBC commissioners in office, the 2022 generation election may be a tall order, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has said. Kuria raised concerns about the next vote on Sunday, adding that it may not take place as those who had been pushing for reforms have gone silent. The opposition demanded an overhaul at the polls agency through violent protests last year. The calls subsided after their defeat in the presidential race and critics now say Kenya has no opposition as ODM leader Raila Odinga resolved to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta. The others in NASA are Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, who has decided to support the handshake. Read: Kalonzo's Wiper party resolves to support Uhuru's agenda in Parliament Also read: I'm ready to help you fight corruption, Kalonzo tells Uhuru Regarding the state of the nation, Kuria said: “I foresee a situation where a council of elders is required to take over the running of this country on interim basis. "[This is unless] the IEBC is fixed urgently to fill up the vacuum left by commissioners who resigned as we gear up for the next general election." Kuria said, however, that no other poll will be bloody as has been the case since the introduction of pluralism in 1992. At ACK Kerugoya on Sunday, he said: “We need to sober up and ensure elections are free, fair and without a single drop of blood, for what future shall our children inherit?" Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru told the congregation that the county chose to work in unity for the sake of development "lest we are judged by the electorate". On development, she mentioned the upgrading of Kerugoya hospital from level four to five and said Sh400 million had been set aside for the work Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina cautioned Mt Kenya leaders against publicly discussing their 2022 plans as they may not be palatable in some quarters. "I urge my colleagues from Mt Kenya to understand that there are issues one can only discuss in seclusion due to their sensitivity," he said The leaders attended a thanksgiving ceremony for Kirinyaga senator Charles Kibiru at St Thomas Cathedral in Kerugoya town. Speakers who included Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Dagorreti‘s John Kiarie, Githinji Gichimu (Gichugu), Kabinga Wachira (Mwea), Munene Wambugu (Kirinyaga Central) and Maragwa’s Mary Njoroge said "those with ears need not be reminded about the 2022 game changer". Marsabit Senator Naomi Waqo said she supports President Uhuru Kenyatta's fight against corruption while Embu's Njeru Ndwiga said he will support the bill to ensure value addition before the exportation of Kenyan coffee. "Coffee still fetches good prices but mismanagement of the proceeds by societies discourages farmers." he said. Related: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader Laikipia Senator John Kinyua, Kandara legislator Alice Wahome and Kirinyaga Woman Representative Wangui Ngirichi and her Muranga counterpart Sabina Chege were also present. Click here for the latest political news