Former State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu will become Kenya’s High Commissioner to the UK if MPs approve his nomination. President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday submitted nine names to Parliament for vetting as high commissioners and ambassadors. He named the nominees two weeks ago but did not indicate their workstations. Also on the list are names of two nominees for principal secretary unveiled during the Cabinet reshuffle. Former Directorate of Criminal Investigations boss Ndegwa Muhoro will be the ambassador to Malaysia if he passes the vetting. Former Air Force commander Lt Gen Samuel Thuita has been nominated to become the ambassador to Israel. Other nominees are former Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairperson Sarah Serem (China), Johnson Ondieki (Turkey), Nicholas Ogego (Saudi Arabia) and Chris Mburu (South Sudan). Former MPs Paddy Ahenda (Kasipul Kabondo) and Benjamin Lang’at (Ainamoi) were nominated to become ambassadors to Qatar and Namibia. The names of Francis Owino and Esther Koimett were forwarded for vetting as Youth and Transport principal secretaries. “Honourable members, His Excellency the President is now seeking the National Assembly’s approval of the said persons for the appointment of the respective offices,” National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi said as he relayed Uhuru’s message to the House. The nominees will be vetted by relevant committees. The teams are expected to seek public views on the suitability on the nominees before the candidates face the panels. Read:Esipisu appointed UK High Commissioner, Sarah Serem set for China Former Energy minister Ochillo Ayacko declined President Kenyatta’s nomination as an ambassador. Although his workstation was not immediately named, the former Rongo MP’s name was read out when deputy State House spokesperson Kanze dena announced the nominees. Ochilo said he declined the nomination to serve the people of Migori as senator. The Migori Senate seat fell vacant last month following the death of Ben Oluoch Okelo. The by-election will be held in October. Ochilo is among tens of candidates preparing for the contest. Click here for the latest political news