The government has identified 7,500 acres for one of the big four agenda, housing. Housing PS Charles Mwaura told the Star yesterday that the parcels are owned by government. "We will have to do due diligence on the status of each parcel,"he said. Mwaura said the parcels are in 59 cities across the country. Between sh 2.6 trillion and 2.7 trillion is needed for a million houses in the ambitious project. Mwaura said that the private sector will play a critical role in developing the projects. The government will then buy the houses from the private sector on behalf of Kenyans. Read: Uhuru’s low-cost housing to cost Sh600,000 to Sh3 million World Bank estimates that there is a shortage of 250,000 houses in the country per year. On Friday, Mwaura said they have analyzed shortages both at the high end and low end. "The job is cut out for us, there is a massive assignment." He was speaking during the 2018 construction industry awards ceremony at Carnivore restaurant. The awards recognizes and celebrates the achievements of Kenya's construction players. The construction industry contributes seven percent to GDP, according to statistics from Kenya Bureau of Statistics. Mwaura cited the cost of land as a result of shortage of housing. He said speculative behaviors have triggered
rapid price increases. The PS described the cost of land in Nairobi as "obscene and most expensive in the continent." Mwaura said the cost of land contributed to between 40 and 60 percent of the total cost. He said the cost of construction was also very high, a move that has seen developers shy away. However, the large economies of scale must be leveraged on, he said. Mwaura said the future of construction was in the alternative building technology that will cater to the evolving housing needs for the citizens. As such, Mwaura said his department intends to hold an exhibition in Nairobi for innovative building materials and technologies in coming weeks. The exhibition will search for innovative, cost effective housing solutions, he said. Mwaura said the half a million housing units will cause an explosion in the construction industry due to the effect it will have on all its players. Everyone in the entire value chain from manufacturers,suppliers,consultants,contractors, skilled artisans,labourers and relevant professionals stand to gain from this national endeavor,Mwaura said. Mwaura said his ministry will coordinate with other government agencies. He said guidelines on how the private sector will participate are set to be published next month. The available land will also be given to developers next month after due diligence has been done. Click here for
the latest political news