A newly formed Elders Association of Kenya (EAK) wants Identity Cards to be reviewed so that the "birth location" part is removed as it is promoting tribalism. Speaking to the press on Thursday when they launched the association, the elders said for the country to eradicate tribalism, the ID should be changed. Martin Kinyanjui, the founder, said elders have come together so that they can promote national cohesion. “The association was to be formed in the year 2016 but because we never wanted to branded as political, we waited for the conclusion of the elections,” Kinyanjui said. He added that the association is not only for people who are above the age of 54 but also those who are below that age. “The association through its internship programs shall work towards the rehabilitation of Kenyan youths who have fallen victims of to drug abuse,” he said. He said that those young men from the age of 25- 35 will also be mentored to became elders. “We shall work with the government in fulfilment the Big four agenda because all what we want is peace and development within the country,” said Kinyanjui. Mohammed Galgalo (former Moyale MP) and who is Secretary-General of the Union said they want to reach all corners of the country to promote national unity and fight Tribalism. He said that tribalism is the major barrier to the economic growth and other developments. Galgalo also added that the association will not be interfered with by politicians because their objective is to empower Kenyans. “We shall travel all over the country preaching peace and we shall also discourage the youths from engaging into drugs and illicit blue,” he said. Mohammed Malicha Galgalo who is also a member and a former MP said they shall train and empower women and youth on job creations. The association will be conducting recruitment every two years and will set up county branches before holding their first annual general meetings and elections. The membership fees will be stated in the membership application forms. Click here for the latest political news