Makueni Governor and Wiper Party Chair Prof. Kivutha Kibwana has defended the Party's resolution to work with Government saying that the move was for the best interest of the Kamba Community. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Kibwana said that the aim was to ensure development for the region and inclusivity in Government. "We are not being driven by greed to be in government or even our party members landing plum government positions. Our idea is to seek development for out people. We want to ensure that when we start knocking into Goverment offices no one will veiw us as outsiders", said Kibwana. He said that the Kamba Community had suffered the most in the past five years that it has been in the opposition and therefore the resolve to change tact. "At no time since Independence did we as a community have such few people in Government as we do today. Look at the Military and the Police for example, Kambas were known to take high positions in these fields but todate the narrative is changing" He said. The Wiper party Chair said that the move was also a strategy of strengthening Kalonzo Musyoka's political bargain power for his 2022 presidential bid. He said that the more the Community will have slots in Government, the more Kalonzo will have strong pillars that can support his 2022 presidential campaign. "We want to ensure that going forward Kalonzo has an immense support for his 2022 bid and one of the ways to realize this is by ensuring that we have people in Government who can act as his Pillars", said Kibwana. He said that this was part of the resolutions made during the Ukambani leaders meeting held at the beginning of the year in Koma Rock where it was agreed that the Party reaches out to everyone. "You will remember that when we met at Koma Rock, we agreed that we will knock every door and hunt for support from all corners. Thats why going forward we do not want to fight anyone, whether it's Ruto, Musalia Mudavadi or Gedion Moi" He said. Kibwana asked all Wiper MPs and MCAs across the Country to support the Government's big four Agenda in both levels of Assemblies as that was the resolve of the party. He too said that the party will have consultative forums with the clergy, businessmen, professionals and even the youth to try and explain the importance of the new political direction. Ends....