Mombasa county is banking on a proposed Sh6.5 billion recycling plant to end the garbage problem.
But the County Integrated Development Plan (CIDP) for 2018-2022 has not given a starting date.
The county has given itself four years to complete the task. Two previous attempts to build a plant failed.
A Sh2 billion public-private partnership in which Bamburi Cement would have built the plant never materialised as the proposed site was privately owned.
An Italian company, Jacorossi Imprese, was also about to be awarded a tender to set up a different recycling plant.
The plans were scuttled when French Development Agency promised a Sh1.1 billion grant for a similar venture that never happend.
The county acknowledges that garbage collection is inadequate, with less than 30 per cent of the generated waste collected. “The rest remains along the water shore, in the streets and open ground,” the county plan said.
Governor Hassan Joho ordered the closure of Kibarani dumpsite and directed waste be disposed at Mwakirunge. The deadline expired on Sunday with much work yet to be done.
Mwakirunge is a flight path and the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority opposed relocation because birds eating garbage could pose a danger, bird-hits. Diseases like chikungunya and cholera, which were reported in the area early this year, have been blamed in part on the garbage pileups.
Joho blames residents for the piles of garbage, while locals accuse him of failing on his mandate.
“Residents are dirtying the county and posting photos on social media,” Joho said during the annual Eid Baraza at Treasury Square.
He said without collective efforts, the campaign for a cleaner county won’t be won.
Garbage trucks were at some point this year impounded by police. The county blamed the national government for impeding efforts to clean up the town. Joho has proposed punitive laws against illegal dumping. He wants vehicles found dumping waste in undesignated places impounded.
In January, Environment executive Godfrey Nato announced closure of some garbage outlets to contain heaps of waste.
Those without proper documentation were to be arrested, charged Sh50,000 and jailed for six months.
County garbage trucks are supposed to be stationed at transfers stations. Once full, they are emptied at either Kibarani or Mwakirunge.
Last year, the county cancelled a garbage collection contract it had with Fast Movers and Haulers Ltd, over Sh140 million accrued debt. This caused a major waste crisis.
Last week, Muslims for Human Rights asked Joho to identify waste collectors after confirming strewn refuse in four constituencies.
Muhuri executive director Hassan Abdille said the city’s aesthetics have deteriorated and sustainable waste management has not been achieved. Acquisition of a Sh20 million shoveller, decommissioning of Kibarani and anti-littering and waste management will be major projects.
Others are acquisition or leasing of a waste collection transfer stations, landscaping and mapping of energy resources.
In August Mombasa will host the World Tourism Congress — Skal International — and cleaning up  the   ‘town’ is  essential.