Despite being the leading scorer at AFC Leopards camp this season, on-form Whyvonne Isuza insists he is not under pressure to contest for the Golden Boot. Isuza, an attacking midfielder, has found the back of the net ten times and trails the league’s joint top scorer duo of Jacques Tuyisenge and Nicholas Kipkirui who ply their trades with Gor Mahia and Zoo Kericho respectively by a goal. The race to scoop the best scorers accolade was thrown wide open following the exit of Nzoia Sugar’s danger man Elvis Rupia who sealed a move to Zambian-based Power Dynamos a week ago, leaving the quartet of Isuza,Tuyisenge, Kipkirui and Mathare United’s Clifford Alwanga as potential candidates to lay hands on the crown. Until his departure to Zambia, Rupia had bagged 15 goals and Isuza has downplayed hopes of muscling for the ‘Golden Boot’. A spectacular bicycle kick goal in the Mashemeji Derby and a series of superb displays in the midfield saw pundits enroll his name for the season’s Most Valuable Player (MVP). But despite the praises coming from all quarters, Isuza believes in teamwork rather than individual brilliance. “Whether I score or not what matters to me is what the team gets at the end of the game. I can score goals and we lose the three points or fail to qualify to the next round (in a tournaments). Rupia has left for Zambia and there are many players who have the capacity to win the boot and I can’t say I am a favourite or I am going for it. My target is to assist the team to get wins.” Being the best scoring midfielder in the season thus far, Isuza attributed the sucess to hard work and denied reports linking him to big spending clubs outside the country who have found a new market in Kenya. “Two seasons ago I finished with six goals while at Mathare and I feel it comes courtesy of hard work. There is nothing extraordinary or a secret I can say I am doing. It’s all about hard work and being a team player. I haven’t received offers from a club here at home or abroad. I want to give the best to Leopards and honour the terms stipulated in my contract.”