Zimbabwe's opposition accused
the election commission on Tuesday of deliberately delaying
results of this week's vote to favour the ruling party,
reporting irregularities in the first poll since the removal of
Robert Mugabe in a November coup. Even though the election passed off peacefully, several
water cannon trucks patrolled outside the central Harare
headquarters of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change
(MDC) as its red-shirted supporters danced in the streets. Some local results from parallel parliamentary elections
have been declared but the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC)
has yet to produce any figures from Monday's presidential vote. ZEC chief Priscilla Chigumba said the presidential result
may not be ready until Saturday. Former MDC finance minister Tendai Biti and ZESN, the main
domestic election monitor, said one in five polling stations -
more than 2,000 in all - had not physically posted tallies on
their doors, as required by law. That omission gave room for the ZEC, which ZESN and the
opposition have accused of bias, to manipulate the results in
favour of President Emmerson Mnangagwa and the ruling ZANU-PF
party, Biti said. "There is a deliberate delay in formally announcing
results," Biti told a news conference, characterising it as
"interference with the people's will". ZESN and other civil society groups were preparing a legal
challenge to force the results into the open, Biti said. ZEC said there was no rigging or cheating in the vote, whose
credibility is vital in Zimbabwe's attempts to emerge from the
pariah status and economic decay into which it sank in the
latter half of Mugabe's nearly four decades in charge. However, ZEC did not explain the failure by the polling
stations to post results. The poll is a two-horse race between 75-year-old Mnangagwa,
a long-serving security chief who took over after Mugabe's
removal, and 40-year-old MDC leader Nelson Chamisa. Both men have expressed confidence in victory although
Western diplomats and local observer groups said the race, which
saw a turnout of 75 percent, was too close to call. "The information from our representatives on the ground is
extremely positive!" Mnangagwa said on his official Twitter
feed. Chamisa had earlier said he was poised for victory, writing
on Twitter: "Awaiting ZEC to perform their constitutional duty
to officially announce the people's election results and we are
ready to form the next government." As well as electing a president, Zimbabweans were voting for
210 members of parliament and more than 9,000 councillors. The final outcome may not be known until Aug. 4. In the
absence of a clear winner, a run-off will be held on Sept. 8. REBUILDING The winner must put Zimbabwe back on track after 37 years
under Mugabe tainted by corruption, mismanagement and diplomatic
isolation that brought one of Africa's most promising economies
to its knees. Election monitor sources said Monday's vote appeared to have
passed without major foul play although they noted some coercion
and intimidation of voters in rural areas by ZANU-PF and said
state media was biased towards the ruling party. Chamisa questioned the independence of the ZEC and said
voters were being suppressed in urban areas where he is popular.
ZANU-PF has denied any misconduct. Whatever the outcome, unrest remains possible. If the MDC
loses and contests the result there could be street protests.
Protracted court battles could also spark violence and delay
much-needed economic reforms. Should Mnangagwa lose, many Zimbabweans fear some in the
ruling party may not accept the result, particularly given the
huge risks some senior cadres and army officers took in removing
Mugabe. Some of the organisers of the coup are now in
government, including Vice President Constantino Chiwenga. "THIS IS AFRICA" Mnangagwa and ZANU-PF have said they will accept the result,
but after a string of questionable elections under Mugabe, many
Zimbabweans remained sceptical. "If this guy loses there is no way they will hand over
power," said Gift Machekera, pointing at a huge banner of
Mnangagwa hanging on a building in Harare. "Those who have the
guns have the power. This is Africa." Several civil society groups are collating results from
10,985 polling posts in parallel with ZEC but are not allowed to
release results early. A source at one group said it was too
early to call a winner but it was looking "very close". In the capital Harare, an MDC stronghold, results posted
outside some polling stations showed Chamisa winning by wide
margins, but Mnangagwa was expected to claw back ground in
ZANU-PF's rural heartland. Urban results tend to emerge quicker
than those from rural outposts. The run-up to Monday's vote was peaceful compared with past
elections under Mugabe, where the ruling party and veterans of
the 1970s independence struggle were accused of violence against
opponents. Dozens of people were killed ahead of a runoff in
2008 between Mugabe and MDC-founder Morgan Tsvangirai, who died
of cancer in February. Mugabe emerged on the eve of the election to announce he
would vote for the opposition, surprising Mnangagwa who accused
him of striking a deal with Chamisa. Read: No rigging in first election since end of Mugabe rule, official says Click here for the latest political news