Anyone unable to smell the coffee in Jubilee is lying to themselves. Even the urbane secretary general Raphael Tuju, adept at deflecting party crises to semantics, readily admits “I’ll be surprised if there weren’t disagreements.” Therefore anyone within Jubilee denying the glowing clash and gap of interests over the 2022 presidential candidature is lying to us. That there are now two Jubilees is an open secret. “The meeting would be timely because even a fool knows there is a crisis that’s threatening to tear apart Jubilee,” affirms Deputy President William Ruto’s recent convert and Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama. That was before the [July 3 Parliamentary Group] meeting was scuttled by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s men. Other things are obvious too. Ruto senses disinterest by the President in their 2012 MoU on reciprocal support in the former succeeding the latter. He knows either the President has another option or is readying the DP to hang. Ruto must recall the 2012 façade by the two to callously dump ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, despite a binding MoU. He must cringe at the thought that the script replay is on him. But Ruto isn’t gazing at the stars waiting for a miracle. He concludes he must get to State House without Uhuru and, by extension, Mt Kenya support. He chances he’s gotten this far by sheer grit, betrayals and deceit. Ruto is not stupid enough to imagine the Mt Kenya MPs hanging out with him are the genuine articles who don’t revel in hefty handouts. Ruto needs them around not to get Mt Kenya votes but to rally his Kalenjin base; convince them he’s still Mt Kenya’s choice to ward off competition by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, and also to pluck low-hanging political fruits in other regions. Hence, Ruto’s resolution to outflank the President by plunging into early campaigns to mop up as many opinion shapers as possible for the imminent battle. He is spoiling for war, doing it personally, fanning out across the country, appropriating government projects as personal gifts that buy him support. The other thrust is to play victim of ‘royal families’ waging war on a commoner; #royaltyVShustler can be catchy to Kenyans ignorant about lifestyle changes. On the second axis, Ruto has let fly fork-tongued proxies calling the President’s bluff in the fight against graft. Not content to blunt the effects of the handshake diplomacy by giving Uhuru ultimatums, they have drawn daggers to deflect the anti-corruption war by claiming it’s aimed at Ruto, and then brusquely trying to shake Uhuru’s resolve by smearing his kin with corruption dung. One claimed Uhuru’s uncle is a contraband sugar dealer while another wants lifestyle audits revisited on Uhuru’s father Jomo. Uhuru’s rejoinder was as sarcastic as it gets: “Hata kama ni ndugu yangu, funga yeye, kwani iko nini?” Unfortunately, Ruto’s proxies are a danger to him. They know not how to ensnare a rabbit. To draw a President’s anger isn’t wise. Their failure to stay on a message long enough to win anyone over is legendary. Their insinuation that their boss is the target of the anti-graft war is self-immolation by Ruto for letting the narrative take hold. So what happens now that daggers are drenched in blood? Dawa ya moto ni moto. Ironically, when it gets that personal, divorce is the only way. Is Ruto prepared for life outside Jubilee? He may delude himself tht e he can force Uhuru’s compliance through blackmail, rendering him a lame-duck president but he’s already let the genie out of the bottle. The ‘system’, that amorphous but deadly cradle of the political industry made up of government bureaucracy and business that make Presidents in Kenya, might have wanted to sympathise but for Ruto’s arrogance. For challenging it, haranguing and competing against it in wealth acquisition, the system is now against him. The system won’t let him blur the battle lines anymore. Ruto got his way planting surrogates in Jubilee nominations last year. But that’s as far as he will be allowed to go. The plugs are being pulled; the Tuju-foiled Ruto-convened parliamentary meeting is a backhanded compliment by Uhuru. It’s only just begun.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com,