Delayed HIV treatment is a leading cause for deaths in children under 15, a UN report shows. Last year, 110,000 children in this age bracket died from AIDS-related causes, out of this 32,000 were between five and 14 years, the United Nations Children Fund (Unicef) report said. It says 52 per cent of children below 15 were on medication worldwide in 2017, compared with 59 per cent of adults Children's treatment is also hampered by caregivers' fear of stigmatisation or discrimination if they are seen caring for a child with HIV. “Others might not be aware of specialised support schemes and interventions such as nutrition that helps children better tolerate medicines and be more consistent in adherence to drugs,” the report notes. Lengthy delays in treatment have irreversible consequences on children’s health and overall wellbeing. Read: Nairobi  leads in HIV among adolescents The Unicef report says pediatric HIV care and treatment is not integrated into child health services available at primary healthcare facilities. This is because only doctors may be authorised to prescribe treatment to the children. In Eastern Africa, about 57 per cent of children have access to HIV drugs compared to 66 per cent of adults. “Children are frequently referred to hospitals far away from their homes for treatment and care,” the report reads. The report, however, notes that HIV infection in children through unsafe blood transmission is less of a concern today. Globally, about 1.8 million children between the ages of 0 and 14 have HIV today, with 91 per cent of them residing in Sub-Saharan Africa. Speaking to the Star, Director of Medical Services in the Ministry of Health Jackson Kioko said increased attention is needed to support children with HIV to transition from paediatric care to adult care. The report further notes children are fearful or reluctant to end longstanding relationships with their pediatric care team when they become adolescents. Related: HIV drug banned in Kenya causes holes in babies' spines, heads - new study Also read: New HIV viral load test launched, results in one hour Click here for the latest political stories