An Embu court yesterday heard how former AP Constable Peter Karanja slipped away from his job and indiscriminately killed 10 people. Karanja is facing charges of murdering 10 people, including two police officers, using his G3 rifle on November 6, 2010. He is said to have become enraged after his girlfriend jilted him and eloped with another man. Witnesses in the past hearings said Karanja was looking for his girlfriend in various bars. Police constable Antony Njagi yesterday told Embu resident judge Florence Muchemi that he and Karanja had been assigned to guard then Mbeere North District commissioner’s residence in Siakago town. Njagi said at 10pm, Karanja excused himself saying he had gone for a short call but he did not return and instead went to Siakago town. There he shot dead 10 people in various bars, including two colleagues. Njagi said Karanja started in a bar that was about 300 metres from the DC’s residence. He shot his victims using his G3 rifle. The witness said Karanja killed two AP officers who had responded to a distress call. Assistant Superintendent of Police Obadiah Mbuthia said Karanja only stopped shooting after he ran out of bullets. He surrendered at Siakago police station. Mbuthia said on November 7, 2010, he and other colleagues recovered a G3 rifle, 16 spent cartridges and a mobile phone at the scene of crime. During a past hearing Antony Muthee, who witnessed Karanja shooting dead six people, said he was working in Makuti Bar in Siakago as a waiter when he heard gunshots at 10pm. He said he followed two AP officers who were going to investigate what was happening. Muthee said they saw Karanja and one officer asked him if he knew where the gunshots were coming from, but Karanja shot him dead. The other officer tried to escape but he was also shot dead. The witness said he ran into a bar and hid behind the kitchen. He said Karanja stormed into the bar and gunned down three men who were drinking at different tables. He said a woman knelt down and pleaded with Karanja not to kill her but he shot and killed her. Muthee said Karanja aimed at other customers who had hidden under tables, but he had run out of bullets. The hearing will be on October 15 this year.