All corruption and economic crime cases will be heard and determined in Nairobi, Chief Justice David Maraga has said. Maraga on Friday directed that applications challenging economic crime and corruption charges will be limited to the High Court in Nairobi. All reviews, appeals or any other disputes arising from the charges will also be heard and determined by the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division in Nairobi. He said the move will ease management of cases and speed up their hearings and determination. The directive comes as a break from the past where such cases delayed in courts. “All cases relating to corruption and economic crimes which have been filed before other stations and divisions of the High Court, in which hearing has not commenced, shall be transferred to the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division," Maraga said. Cases pending in other stations or divisions of the High Court shall continue to be heard and determined in those stations. Maraga had issued the rules in 2016 during the launch of Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court and it is only on Friday that they were officially gazetted. Read:[VIDEO] Corruption cases a priority, evidence must be watertight - Maraga The directive takes effect immediately. Those arrested over corruption and economic crime related cases in the counties will be brought to Nairobi for hearings and determination. Parties were directed to file their affidavits, pleadings and submissions including list of authorities in soft-copy via email to enable judges expedite rulings and judgement. “All urgent application shall be fast-tracked, heard and determined within 60 days. All other applications shall be heard and determined within 90 days," the directive states. "Provided that for good reason, the court shall have the discretion to extend the time allocated." Judges of the Anti-Corruption Court include justice Hedwig Ong'udi who heads the division and justice J Onyiengo. Also Read:Bring watertight graft cases, Maraga tells DPP and police Click here for the latest political news