A supremacy battle is shaping up in Parliament once again after members of the National Assembly yesterday told senators they do not have have the constitutional mandate to originate money bills The legislators, who spoke during the afternoon session, said the Senate should restrict itself to matters touching on the counties. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale sparked the debate when he sought the permission of Speaker Justin Muturi to withdraw three items that were in the order paper on bills that had originated from the Senate. “The Constitution gives this House the power to originate money bills in Article 109,” he said. Minority leader John Mbadi said there is need to educate the Senate on its mandate, especially on money bills. He said the Senate’s sole mandate is to oversight the functions of counties, not those of the national government. “Article 96 of the Constitution empowers the Senate to oversight counties and that is why they summon governors to appear before them,” Mbadi said. “You will not see a National Assembly member summon a governor. No money bill will originate from Senate. The office of the Clerk in Senate needs to advise the senators.” The Senate has originated three bills – the Retirement Benefits (Deputy President and Designated Officers amendment Bill, the County Statistics Bill and the Care and Protection of Older Members of the Society. Read:Duale, Murkomen fight over Senate, National Assembly roles Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wa said the Treasury has allocated a lot of money to counties and urged senators to oversight governors instead of getting involved in matters that do not fall under their mandate. “As we sit here in the this House, there are very many stalled projects in counties that no one has dared to investigate,” he said. “Senators are very busy chasing scandals like Kenya Power, Ruaraka land and Kenya Pipeline Company, which they have no mandate to do. I think these people are just idle.” Suna East MP and Minority Whip Junet Mohamed said the Senate is “becoming irrelevant”. He said the senators are involving themselves in matters that fall under the National Assembly. “We see senators calling the same ministers, same PSs the National Assembly has been calling. Very soon, we will see them starting an inquiry into the sugar,” he said. “This is a House that has no role and has gone rogue.” Also See:MPs frustrating devolution, say senators Click here for the latest political news