Equity has appointed Mary Wamae, its long-serving Director of Strategy, Legal Services and Company Secretary, as Group Executive Director overseeing subsidiaries. Wamae has worked at the organisation for 14 years. She joined the then building society in 2004 as Head of Legal Services and was promoted to Company Secretary and Head of Legal Services in 2005. Wamae became Director of Corporate Strategy, Legal Services and Company Secretary in 2008 and Group Company Secretary as well as Director of Corporate Strategy and Legal Services in 2012. She was promoted to Group Director of Strategy, Legal Services and Group Company Secretary two years later. While running her private legal practice before joining the bank, Wamae was the team leader in facilitating the first strategic investment in Equity Bank by AfriCap Microfinance Fund in 2002. She has a master’s degree in Leading Innovation and Change from York St John University, UK, and a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Nairobi. She is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Programme (Strathmore - IESE Business School, Barcelona Spain). Wamae is an Advocate of the High Court with 14 years' experience in private practice. Equity also promoted Christine Browne to Group Director of Legal Services & Company Secretary and Brent Malahay to Group Director of Strategy, Strategic Partnerships and Investor Relations. Prior to her promotion,Browne worked as General Manager for Legal, Corporate Banking at Equity Bank. She is a Chevening alumni who holds a Master of Laws from University College London. She joined the bank in 2014 after a six-year stint as principal counsel at East African Development Bank. She is an accomplished legal practitioner and has previously worked at World Bank and Industrial Promotion Services (IPS). Malahay has worked at the group since 2016. He has a Master’s degree in Economics and a Bachelor of Business Finance from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. He has over 14 years’ experience in financial services with competencies ranging from commercial banking to credit ratings, investment banking and fund management. Malahay previously held several high-level positions at global financial institutions, notably Standard Bank, Fitch Ratings, JP Morgan and Investec Asset Management. Group CEO James Mwangi said they were reorganising their structure in line with the capital, asset base and client bases. "We are also repositioning ourselves for opportunities that will [result] from the anticipated growth," he said on Tuesday. The appointments came hot on the heels of those of Polycarp Igathe as Group Chief Commercial Officer and Julius Kayoboke as Group Director in charge of Customer Experience and Product Management. Read: Equity Bank posts 22% growth as it diversifies away from loans Also read: 'Thrilled' Igathe takes over as Equity Group Chief Commercial Officer Click here for the latest political news