Learning has been disrupted for 4,210 students in Kisumu and Homa Bay because of ongoing unrest. Kisumu recorded 2,050 and Homa Bay 2,160 students sent home. Police say they do not yet have numbers from the four counties of Kisii, Nyamira, Migori and Siaya. At least 26 schools have been closed in the region. Police records show Nyanza has the highest number of disruptions this month as schools were set on fire and property destroyed. Some of the schools are Barding Secondary (Siaya), Kisumu Girls High (Kisumu), Oriwo Boys (Homa Bay), Maranda High (Siaya) and Ng’iya Girls (Siaya). Others are Ambira, Maliera, Onjiko, Otieno Oyoo, Chulaimbo, Ngere, Kandiege and Usenge secondary schools. Investigations into the cause of the fires are underway. The records do not include some of the schools closed on Wednesday such as Kisii High School where a dorm was burnt. Regional police commander Leonard Katana on Wednesday said nine schools had been closed in Kisumu, two in Homa Bay, 12 in Siaya and one each in Migori, Nyamira and Kisii. Thirteen schools have been set ablaze in Kisumu, two in Homa Bay, three in Siaya and one each in Kisii, Nyamira and Migori. Katana said the dormitories razed housed 762 students — 284 (Kisumu county), 215 (Homa Bay county), 243 (Siaya) and 20 (Nyamira). “We’ve arrested 47 students who have been charged in court,” Katana said during a press briefing in Kisumu. “We are unable to give the cost of damages so far. We have asked the management of schools affected to work on that report,” he added. He told the boards of management, teachers and parents they have a responsibility to protect schools and stop destruction of property. “The school administrations should effectively engage students so they understand them. These students are in stages of human development and if not well taken care of resort to unlawful acts,” Katana said. He warned everybody would be judged by their own actions and urged parents to instil moral values in their children so they grow into productive and responsible members of society. “We understand their children, but if one decides to engage in criminality we will deal with them as criminals,” the police boss said. Students must invest their time in studying and desist from peer groupings that could ruin their future, he said. He warned petrol station attendants against selling fuel to students. One student was nabbed carrying petrol in Seme. Katana said they would crack down on those hellbent on causing chaos in schools.