 The beleaguered National Lands Commission is embroiled in a fresh storm after it controversially upheld titles claimed by businessman Joshua Kulei but for which the latter is facing a criminal suit. The Muhammad Swazuri-led commission upheld titles of 12 pieces of land held by East Africa Gas Company Limited, a firm owned by Kulei but which he is charged for conspiring to defraud the Kenya Airports Authority. The NLC decision was gazetted on July 17, last year –– just about a month to the August 8 polls. KAA has since moved to court seeking to quash the NLC decision, invalidating its claim to the ownership of parcels in Mombasa. Kulei, who is charged alongside eight others, is a former personal secretary to retired President Daniel Moi. He was charged in January 2010, jointly with former Commissioner of Lands Wilson Gachanja, former Kenya Pipeline managing director Ezekiel Komen, former KAA director Peter Kipyegon Lagat and businessman Prakash Bhundia. The NLC decision has, however, now seen Gachanja and Lagat cleared of the fraud charges. Trial magistrate Felix Kombo ruled that the trial of the two “has been rendered a futile and impractical pursuit” by the NLC decision. “It follows in my view, therefore, that the gazette notice has impacted on an essential ingredient in each of the three charges and rendered them, in the present state, defective in their substance. As things stand, the three charges do not disclose the intended offence,” he ruled. But the court said the charges against Kulei, Komen and three other companies will proceed. The Star has established that in November last year, then Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko asked Swazuri to urgently revoke the decision. Tobiko and KAA managing director Jonny Andersen separately protested that the NLC move was prejudicial to the pending criminal case. “We note with grave concern that the National Land Commission misdirected itself in its determination dated 11th December, 2015 and subsequently under Gazette Notice No. 6862 dated 17th July 2017,” Andersen protested. “We request that you kindly but most urgently review the said determination and gazette notice, noting that they are an impediment to the criminal proceedings instituted by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to prosecute persons who jointly conspired to defraud KAA of the subject parcels of land and render KAA's efforts to maintain its proprietorship over the said land futile.” This is the latest land controversy that NLC is involved in. Currently, the commission is in the eye of a storm after it approved Sh3.3 billion compensation to businessman Francis Mburu for land occupied by two schools in Nairobi. Last month, the National Assembly Lands Committee concluded the acquisition of the parcels of Ruaraka land was fraudulent and bordered on collusion by top Ministry of Education, Treasury and NLC to swindle taxpayers. Swazuri has separately been accused of approving multi-million compensation for dubious standard gauge railway plots. In its application at the Environment and Land court in Mombasa, KAA said the NLC decision amounts to abuse of office. "The respondent denied the applicant a reasonable opportunity to state its case which was already in the public domain, considering that there were criminal proceedings instituted by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions over the same land,” KAA argued. But in its defence, Swazuri says KAA snubbed a critical public hearing at the Kenya School of Government in Mombasa despite invitations and telephone calls. In a letter to Tobiko and Transport PS Paul Mariga dated December 2017, the NLC boss said after the hearing, they concluded that East Africa Gas Company legally purchased the land. “After listening to all the interested parties and conducting investigations including pursuing the Land, Survey and Planning records held at the Ministry of Lands and Housing and Urban Development, the Commission made determination in respect of the grant under review,” Swazuri said. “In its determination, the commission upheld the titles on the basis that they were legally issued and directed the Chief Lands Registrar to uphold the deeds because they were found to have been acquired in lawful manner.” He maintained that due process was followed and told Tobiko they are under no obligation to revoke their decision upholding the title.  