South Korea has
donated 33,000 metric tons of rice to Kenya to help provide food
assistance to more than 1.5 million people. The donation, received by World Food Programme (WFP) on Saturday, will be allocated to refugees living in Kenya,
Ethiopia and Uganda. WFP said this was the first-ever rice donation received from Korea adding that it will be of great help to 400,000 refugees living in Dadaab and
Kakuma refugee camps. It is projected to sustain the food needs at the various camps for at least four months starting August. "15,000 metric tons of rice have already been dispatched to
Ethiopia while another 5,000 metric tons will benefit refugees in Uganda," WFP said. Regional director Erika Joergensen thanked the
government and people of Korea for their generosity. "I truly hope and
believe this is the beginning of a strong partnership between WFP and the
Republic of Korea," he said. During his maiden visit to Kenya, the Prime Minister of
Korea Lee Nak-yon handed over part of the consignment to WFP’s representatives
at a warehouse in Nairobi. "The rice provided by the Government of the Republic of
Korea may not be enough to solve the entire hunger issue, but I hope that it
can help to ease refugee hunger," Lee said. "I hope that even one sack of rice can help to ease the
minds of these refugees." Lee noted that food instability within East Africa had worsened
due to frequent droughts caused by climate change and due to conflicts in the
region. "Food
instability in the region is too great a burden for any single neighbouring
country to bear." "With the WFP playing a key role, the international
community must overcome this food crisis by pooling its resources," he added. The PM acknowledged the food security status
report by the UN which stated that one-ninth of the world's population, or 800 million people are suffering from malnutrition. He said that the international community should pool their
efforts together in order to aid Kenya’s Sustainable Development Goal of
Zero Hunger by 2030. The Asian leader has been in Kenya on a two-day official visit. He held talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House focusing on Big 4 Agenda and strengthened ties Lee also said that Korea will open its market to Kenya’s
agricultural produce such as coffee, tea and flowers. The Prime Minister further added that it would also help Kenya
achieve universal health coverage and affordable housing dream. The two countries have signed the Health Co-operation
Agreement, which has culminated in strengthening Kenya’s health system. Some of the projects in progress on this front include the
maternal outreach program, collaboration between National Hospital Insurance
Fund and Korea Foundation for International Health and the Disease Prevention project. Also read: Kenya's Big Four takes centre stage as Ruto, South Korea PM hold talks Click here for the latest political news  