Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has vowed to campaign against leaders linked to graft ahead of the 2022 general elections. The legislator said he will take the message of "choices have consequences" countrywide as a word of caution to Kenyans. Keter said at a funeral in Siaya on Saturday that the campaign will help absolve the Kalenjin community from blame over rampant corruption. The MP said Kenyans must seize of the fact that those who loot state resources do so for their own gain. "They are used to stealing even from us. The looters of this land do so for themselves, not even their families," he said. He added that the companies that are used to siphon the funds are registered in the perpetrators' names. Keter claimed some Kalenjin leaders recently called him so that he goes slow in opposing Jubilee's 2022 succession plan. "Some of them called me and asked why I was going against the community interest. I said I'll not support corrupt leaders." When they formed Jubilee party, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto agreed to work two terms each. The plan was that Uhuru was to serve his two terms, which is ending in 2022, and then Ruto would take over from 2022 to 2032. But Keter said he would go round the country and caution Kenyans to look for upright leaders when they make choices in 2022. "If
some of these Kalenjin leaders are elected to high office, they will
steal everything until Kenyans will think all Kalenjins are thieves yet
that is not true." Keter said that since he is also interested in presidency in future, "corrupt leaders from his community should not be allowed to ruin the
ambition of other young and upright leaders from Rift Valley. The
MP asked Uhuru to continue with the fight against corruption and ensure that all graft beneficiaries are locked up. "This should be so that they
do not use ill-gotten wealth to seek higher office and continue to loot." Keter,
Moiben MP Silas Tiren, and Emurua Dikirr's Johanah Ng’eno have vowed to
team up and aggressively back Uhuru’s war on graft. The
MPs want action taken against those linked to the Sh1.9 Billion maize
purchase scam at the NCPB. Keter's latest take on the 2022 presidential election is likely to widen the split between Rift Valley leaders in regard to DP Ruto's presidential bid. Also read: Appeal court reinstates Alfred Keter as Nandi Hills MP Click here for the latest political news  