Seven former Bungoma county staff who were convicted for buying ‘non-carcinogenic’ wheelbarrows for Sh109,320 each have appealed the ruling. Kakamega chief magistrate Bildad Ochieng on June 25 ordered the seven to pay a Sh4.2 million fine or serve a cumulative jail term of 22 years. They paid the fines. Juma Matsanza, Howard Lukadilu, Oscar Onyango, Ayub Tuvaka, Arlington Shikuku, Jacquiline Nanjala and Reuben Rutto were accused of inflating the prices of nine wheelbarrows, spending Sh933,880 on the items. They faced two counts of violating procurement procedures and failure to take responsibility as procurement committee members. The magistrate fined Mathanza Sh400,000 for each charge or two years imprisonment for each count in default. Lukadilu, Onyango, Tuvaka, Shikuku, Nanjala and Rutto were each fined Sh300,000 each for every count or one-and-half years imprisonment for each count. In their appeal filed in the High Court on Tuesday, the convicts, through their lawyer Sylvester Madialo, said Ochieng’ convicted them using “a fatally defective charge sheet”. The appeal has been received by the High Court deputy registrar Josephine Maragia. They argue the court erred in law and fact by basing its decision on the pronouncement of a valuation report prepared and uttered by an unqualified person. The appeal faults the trial magistrate for ignoring the contradiction of the prosecution witnesses, particularly whether or not member of inspection and acceptance committee conducted a market survey. They said the magistrate contradicted himself by holding the wheelbarrows were ordinarily available in the market, and would not have cost that much even after fabrication. The seven said the magistrate erred in law by relying on investigations conducted by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, which was not properly constituted at the time. They said the EACC did not have a chairman and commissioners in office at the time the investigations were conducted. In their litigation, lawyer Victor Shiveka had asked the court “not to jail these scarecrows.” He said the real culprits who even defended the deal were walking freely. The magistrate said although they were first offenders, they had failed to take individual responsibility as accounting officers and tender committee members.