A decision by ODM to give former Cabinet minister Ochilo Ayacko a direct ticket for the October 8 Migori Senate by-election has rubbed his opponents the wrong way. Ayacko was picked out of eight candidates on Friday as the party opted not to use universal suffrage. In a statement, National Election Board chair Judy Pareno said: “As per the party rules, the board has settled on Ayacko as ODM candidate for the Migori senatorial seat." The party cited financial and time constraints in explaining the decision to give the politician the direct ticket. The seat fell vacant after former Senator Ben Oluoch succumbed to throat cancer on June 19. Ayacko landed the nomination hours after the Court of Appeal in Kisumu threw out a petition he had filed against Migori governor Okoth Obado who beat him in the August 8, 2017 general election. In a judgment read by Stephen Gatembu, Ayacko was slapped with a Sh4.5 million fine. The court said there was no sufficient evidence to prove allegations of irregularities and bribery. Read:Migori Senator Ben Oluoch dies from cancer Also read:Migori Senator Ben Oluoch fought cancer bravely, loved the people - Raila Ayacko faces an uphill task against seven other candidates who have vowed to be on the ballot, despite missing the ODM ticket. They include former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, former Migori MP John Pesa, former Mathare and EALA MP Ochieng Mbeo, former Migori speaker Gordon Ogolla, businessman Eddy Oketch, Okello’s eldest son Willis Okello and his cousin Mark Okundi. “I disagree with the party's decision, so I will be on the ballot,” Dalmas told the Star. Okundi told the Star he was shocked and that he will consult his family on the next move. Some aspirants promised, at a meeting on Thursday, that they would not oppose the party's choice of candidate.
Okundi skipped that meeting. Read: Ayacko promises to support ODM pick for Migori Senator During the former Senator's burial, the family asked for a direct ticket for one of them but was divided on whether to support Okello or Willis. Before the nomination, aspirants Solomon Hodo and former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga pulled out of the race. They will be independent candidates. “In the last election the ODM nominations were shambolic. I came third. I knew the decision wasn't going to be fair. I will defeat Ayacko,” Hodo said. Former Kuppet official Kennedy Makasembo and Ayacko’s cousin George Maando will also vie for the post. They said ODM had given them an unpopular candidate. “He was defeated in the last four nominations, and the general election. It will be easy to defeat him,” Makasembo said. On his social media page, Ayacko said he was grateful to party leader Raila Odinga and the people of Migori. “Let us move Migori forward without bitterness. My worthy competitors, thanks for your fair play,” Ayacko said. During Oluoch's burial on July 6, Raila pushed  for Ayacko and Obado to bury the hatchet and saw the politicians 'shake hands'. Ayacko turned down President Uhuru Kenyatta's nominations for the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chair and and an ambassadorial post. Click here for the latest political news 