Relegation-threatened duo of Parkroad Badgers and Western Jaguars wrapped the first leg of the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League with a one-all draw at City Park.
Seeking their second wins of the season, the two teams treated fans with their best versions of play with Badgers seemingly enjoying home comfort unlike their opponents who struggled to adapt on an artificial playing surface in the opening quarter. Having lost 2-0 in their first match of the weekend on Saturday to Nairobi Sikh, the visiting team sat deep in the first quarter and often relied on counter-attacks which proved futile.
Despite playing under intense pressure and having their goalkeeper Gilbert Okanga to thank for keeping them in the game in the first quarter, Jaguars grew in confidence in the second quarter, boosting their ball possession and neutralised their opponents to end the first half 0-0.
On resumption, Philip Omunyin, who was guilty of squandering a handful of scoring chances in the first half, collected a long pass from Cyrus Kanyi, who had to relinquish his coaching roles to help the fast-sinking side to rifle home the opener. The experienced Kanyi single handedly marshaled the back line, gave instruction to the players and his vast understanding of the game saw him produce an assist to the unmarked Omunyin who made no mistake— plundering the ball home for the opening goal.
The lead, however lasted for eight minutes as Allan Malit replied for Jaguars after a counter-attack that caught the overlapping Badgers defenders flat-footed. With Kanyi and the goalkeeper Allan Kesekwa to beat, Malit found space between the two and capitalised on the situation to restore parity.
Determined to get the winning goal, the two teams rattled each other in the remaining minutes of the game but lady lucky was not on either side and had to be content with a point.
A physically agitated Badgers’ team Manager, Nicholas Momanyi attributed the poor first leg performance to failure by the players to take instructions.
“The players have blatantly refused to play to instructions and we will review the performance before the second leg and probably make changes. We might drop several under performing players to our second team after the review. Generally, we have been playing well but I fault the players for ignoring our pre-match instruction and game plan in every match we have played thus far. We are not under pressure to escape relegation. We will definitely finish in a respectable rank.”
His Jaguars’ counterpart Ian Wasike, who held briefly for Michael Malungu, similarly expressed displeasure with the number of wasted chances and vowed to come back strong in the second leg. “We played well and managed to create chances from the counterattacks but sadly, we could not put the result beyond reach. We  are really at risk of getting relegated and we have to get it right in the second leg.”
Following the draw, Badgers dropped to the rock bottom of the standings with seven points while Jaguars placed themselves above their match-day opponent with eight points.