President Uhuru Kenyatta’s nominee for Public Service Commission chairperson was taken to task to explain why he was yearning for the job, yet he had attained the retirement age of 60. The National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security yesterday vetted Stephen Kirogo for his suitability to replace Margaret Kobia — the Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs CS. Kirogo is currently serving as a private secretary to the President. MPs, led by Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West) and Makali Mulu (Kitui Central), pressed the nominee to explain why he could not relinquish the top job to a younger person. “According to your records, you should have retired on January 2, 2018. What new are you going to bring to the service that you have not brought in all those years you have served?” Mulu asked. “Many Kenyans have been suffering due to joblessness. Those who are supposed to go home are not doing so.” Read: Stephen Kirogo vetted in quest to replace Margaret Kobia at PSC Defends candidature Kirogo said he is keen to set standards and entrench values that will improve public service. In a swift rejoinder, But Kolosh asked, “How will you set standards in the public service yet you have already attained the retirement age of 60? Public servants are supposed to retire at 60 years.” Kirogo defended his candidature, saying he has a wealth of experience, having worked in the office of Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. “It’s the government position and agreed standards that civil servants should retire at the age of 60. But I’m ready to improve and entrench the value system for improved productivity. I will measure productivity of each civil servant to ensure Kenyans get value for their tax,” he said. “I’m serving on contract at the moment and am ready to be scrutinised because I believe I’ve worked consistently over the years.” Committee chairman Paul Koinange (Kiambaa) sought to know how the nominee would deal with complacency in the Public Service, particularly within the regional administration. “If you go to the constituencies, the chiefs are no longer working. You have to bribe them to be served. How will you deal with this problem?” Kirogo promised to focus on performance management in which public servants will be rewarded according to their work. “Productivity improvement will be my number one focus. If we don’t have an able public service, we will not achieve the goals our national development agenda,” he said. In March, Kobia handed over the docket to commission vice chairperson Peter ole Nkuraiyia in an acting capacity. If he is approved, Kirogo will serve for a non-renewable term of six years. Click here for the latest political news