Lands Commission chairperson Muhammad Swazuri has reiterated that the agency did not commit any illegalities in approving the Sh1.5 billion compensation for the controversial Ruaraka land. Swazuri said the compensation was approved after relevant authorities, including the Attorney General’s office, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Lands confirmed the land as private. He said the facts about the compensation have been twisted by the media and other entities to make it look like "a scandal, a saga and a puzzle". Swazuri said the matter first came to NLC's attention in July 2015 when the alleged owner of the land Francis Mburu brought a complaint before it. "People say that it was 'a hurried process, it was done just the other day'. The complaint has been there for 34 years," Swazuri said. He said the Education ministry wrote to NLC in March last year acknowledging that the land which is occupied by Ruaraka High school and Drive Inn Primary was private land. He clarified that the letter was written by Education PS Belio Kipsang authorising the commission to proceed with the compensation processes. Swazuri, however, said the commission wrote back informing the ministry those directions must, by law, be given by the Cabinet Secretary in line with the Land Act. "That is the letter which is being used by people to say that we are the ones who instigated. We were only correcting." According to Swazuri, the AG gave his advisory opinion on July 7 giving the Education ministry the green light for the compulsory acquisition of the 13.7 acre land. Read: Ask Matiang’i about Ruaraka land purchase, Amina tells Senate On Monday, Education CS Amina Mohammed told MPs former Education CS Fred Matiang'i and Kipsang disregarded the ministry's internal report to authorise the compensation. She said the report by the Quality Assurance and Standards task force was submitted to Matiang'i and Kipsang on February 3, 2017 — 11 months before the duo approved payment. Swazuri said they proceeded to the Lands Ministry to check the registered owner of the land where they found that the land was private land. He said records from the ministry indicated that the registered owner as at March 28, 1984, was Afrisom Export and Import and Huelands Ltd whose director is Francis Mburu. The commission has been accused of illegally compensating Mburu for the land which government agreed to acquire at Sh3.2 billion. Swazuri said the records at the lands ministry indicated that the owner had objected to the subdivision of the 96-acre piece of land by the then Nairobi City Council. He said the objection was made on April 8, 1984. "This is the letter that people are relying on to say that the land was surrendered. There was no surrender, and if somebody has that surrender, let them bring it to us." Swazuri spoke at the NLC headquarters in Nairobi hours after Mburu was picked up by DCI officers from his Kileleshwa house and taken to Nairobi Area police station. This was the second time Mburu was being arrested after officers from the EACC arrested him on July 20 together with his sons. Mburu is accused of receiving the compensation money unprocedurally, a claim he denies. Read: Ruaraka land broker turns state witness Click here for latest political news