Migori governor Okoth Obado has defended his decision to go against the ODM party in the forthcoming senatorial election, saying it is personal. Obado was reelected on the ODM ticket, but he has opposed the party’s decision to give a direct nomination to his rival Ochillo Ayacko. Ayacko contested for governor  against Obado last year and their rivalry has not ended. Obado was declared winner of the August 8 election but Ayacko challenged the outcome and even moved to the Court of Appeal after the High Court upheld Obado’s win. Ayacko would later withdraw his petition after a mediation by ODM leader Raila Odinga last month. Migori senator Ben Oluoch Okello died last month. The by-election has been scheduled for October 8. On Friday, ODM announced it will front Ayacko for the seat, much to the disappointment of many other aspirants. Obado is among leaders who criticised the move. He has since backed former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, who will run as an independent candidate. The governor has been warned by party MPs that he risks facing disciplinary action for his stance. Suna East MP and ODM director of campaigns Junet Mohamed and Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi on Saturday said no member should go against the party’s choice. "Anybody else can oppose Ayacko. But if you are a member of ODM, regardless of the position you hold or your stature in life, we shall not hesitate to take disciplinary action and you will be surprised,” Wandayi said at Nyangubo Secondary School. “ODM will not tolerate or spare absurd politicians who are humble when seeking the party ticket but later turn into political hyenas after being elected.” Wandayi and Junet were accompanied by the party’s county and national officials during their several tours in Suna East and Suna West. The two constituencies are seen as battleground between Ayacko and Dalmas. Both candidates come from Rongo constituency. Dalmas was Rongo MP but lost to Ayacko in 2002. He recaptured the seat in 2007 but lost again last year to Paul Abuor. On Saturday, Obado criticised Wandayi and Junet, saying they are promoting double standards in the party. He said Junet did not support his reelection despite having vied on the ODM ticket. Junet supported Ayacko against Obado. “Despite having the ODM ticket, the same leaders who have been claiming I am against the party openly campaigned against me. No finger was raised against them and so I won’t be intimidated,” Obado told reporters in his office. He said Junet should first face the disciplinary action for going against the party in last year’s election before threatening him. “Nobody is more special in the Orange party. This open impunity and double standards should not be allowed,” Obado said. He said he will exercise his democratic right as a Migori voter to elect a senator of his choice on October 8. “I will not accept two or three people to sit in Nairobi and dictate to Migori residents where to go as if we are blind,” the governor said.  PROPAGANDA Ayacko has previously accused Obado of graft and critics believe the governor is against his candidature because he will put pressure on oversight and curtail corruption in the county. “Claims of corruption against the county government and me as a person were there since my first term. That propaganda did not prevent me from winning a second term,” Obado said. The governor insisted that he respects and supports Raila, but equally supports the will of the people to choose their leaders. He called for peaceful campaigns as candidates begin to woo the more than 380,000 voters.