The President's directive to freeze funding for new projects might be well intended, however, it has several concerning implications for budget-making. The first implication is that it will totally reorganise the Executive's budget that was approved by Parliament. The Executive will have to go back to its budgeting table and discuss the budget again with ministries and departments. This will affect greatly budget implementation. We have 12 months of implementation and the interruption in realigning the budget to accommodate the directive means we will have less than 12 months to implement the budget. We should not be surprised that the first quarter might go without budget implementation. The second very critical point is why did it take sot long for the President to issue this directive? What factors that informed the directive? What that shows in terms of consultations could point to weak linkages between the Cabinet, the President and the departments. There should be some gaps in budget-making that need to be tightened because policy informs processes; and if this policy was availed during budget-making, such things could have been factored in. The third issue is that there are core commitments already entered into between the government, international partners and other development partners. Therefore, when the government says there is no funding and partnerships had already been entered, that might have implications for achieving targeted output and outcomes. The fourth and last issue is that it would have been prudent for the President to first direct an audit of all the stalled projects, do the costing and then allocate the funds. He should also have given a six- month period to implement his directive. While it is a good policy to clear old projects before embarking on new ones, the government should also be aware of Kenyans'  expectations. They were prepared for new development projects during public participation. They made a number of proposals and wish to see them rolled out. The MP for Kitui Central, holder of a PhD in Economics from Kenyatta University, spoke to the Star Read: MPs oppose Uhuru ban on new projects Click here for the latest political news