The High Court yesterday gave taxpayers a temporary reprieve when it suspended implementation of the Finance Bill 2018. In a separate suit filed by the Kenya Bankers Association, the court also suspended the ‘Robin Hood’ tax which would have seen bank transfers exceeding Sh500,000 attract a 0.05 per cent charge. In the first case, activist Okiya Omtatah sought to protect the taxpayer from exposure to levies which have not been approved by Parliament. Justice Wilfrida Okwany temporarily suspended the bill. “I am satisfied that from the material placed before me by Omtatah a prima facie case has been made with a likelihood of success,” she ruled. She further said that if the court comes to the conclusion that the implementation is constitutional there will be no prejudice to the government since the bill will immediately take effect. “If on the other hand the court finds it is unconstitutional there will be no practical way of compensating tax payers who have been affected by the said bill,” said the judge. National Treasury Cabinet secretary Henry Rotich presented the Finance Bill alongside the budget on June 14. It contains several amendments to the tax regime to help the government finance its Sh3 trillion budget. The amendments include include introduction of a presumptive tax targeting the informal sector, overhaul of the compensating tax regime, tax on money transfers, repeal of interest rate capping, among others. It also pushed up the cost of mobile money transactions, introduce a tax on banking transfers and led to an increases in the cost of kerosene. Omtatah argues that the taxation which took effect from July 1 was done based on mere proposals that are subject to approval or rejection by MPs. “Should parliament eventually reject the tax proposals in the Finance Bill it will not be possible to refund those taxpayers who will have paid the taxes, especially for mobile money transfers and purchases of Kerosene,” he said in the suit papers. Ruling on the KBA suit, Okwany suspended the implementation of the tax until such a time as proper definition of “money transferred by banks” is provided. She said its implementation is an important issue that cannot be left to guesswork or the individual interpretation by banks. She further said the Finance Bill is still in its nascent stage and is yet to be passed by the National Assembly. “I find that the fact KBA has raised the issue of ambiguity in the law in question calls the attention of the Attorney General and the KRA to make a clarification on the issue so as not to leave it to the subjective interpretation of those who are supposed to implement it,” said the judge.