Stanbic Bank will sponsor the national Sevens circuit to the tune of Sh9 million with the first leg—Prinsloo— set for this Saturday in Nakuru.
The series will have stops in Eldoret with the Sepetuka Sevens on July 28-29, Kabeberi slated for Machakos (August 18-19), Driftwood (August 25-26), Dala Sevens (September 8-9) and Christie Sevens (September 15-16). The series will now be known as Stanbic Bank national Sevens Circuit
The six clubs hosting the circuit will each receive Sh1 million for the purpose of organising the events with the remaining cash going towards logistics.
Speaking during the launch yesterday, Kenya Rugby Union chairman, Richard Omwela, expressed satisfaction with the sponsorship. “Kenya rugby has been going through rough patch recently and it is good to see corporate such as Stanbic Bank, who still believe in us, driving the growth of the game in the country. The appointment of a market leader in the banking industry as the title sponsor of the circuit further enhances the game’s prominent stature as a national sport with significance prestige and attraction within the market place,” added Omwela.
Stanbic chief executive officer, Charles Mudiwa, said the partnership goes beyond sponsoring the team and reflects the coming together of two iconic brands to promote a home grown agenda.
“We are delighted to partner with KRU for this national sporting event. Rugby is a sport that has put Kenya on the global map and therefore this sponsorship is aligned to our corporate purpose of driving Kenya’s growth not only through provision of relevant financial solutions but also enhancing shared value by supporting initiatives that Kenyans hold dearly to their hearts,” added Mudiwa.
Stanbic already sponsor Mwamba RFC and is keen to continue investing in the growth and development of the game by helping building the next generation of rugby talent whilst growing the sport’s stature and fans’ experiences. “The addition of the sevens circuit to our current rugby portfolio will allow the bank to further engage with rugby fans and customers around the country. Our continued investment is tied to a noble ambition to build rugby from the grass roots level of the game and encourage more people to watch and play the sport,” added Mudiwa.