ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire has said politicians who mean well for the country must shun negative criticism and rally behind the handshake. The former Kitutu Masaba MP warned politicians against creating factions aimed at belittling the significance of the March 9 Uhuru-Raila pact. He particularly singled out a section of troops rooting for Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid as working in a manner that undermines the handshake. “We are not in any political competition, for now, it would be a tragedy to think that the handshake is meant to work against some presidential ambitions. Nothing is far from the truth,” Bosire said. Some politicians allied to Ruto have come out guns blazing warning that Raila’s game plan is suspect and selfishly geared to diminish the DP’s chances of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, Bosire termed such leaders enemies of the nation’s progress and asked Kenyans not be misled blindly by negative rhetoric meant to undermine the handshake. He said the handshake deal offers a golden opportunity for Kenyans to lay a firm foundation for the country’s future by dealing with endemic corruption. “Having been in a position of leadership, I want to say that it is important to give the handshake a chance. It is important to support the two leaders who came together and salvaged this country which was on the verge of collapse,” he told the Star in an interview. The former lawmaker said the agreement between the president and the ODM leader has given the country fresh impetus to tackle rampant corruption and pilfering of public resources. “The way things are going, the whole world is focused on Kenya, we should work hard to see if we can make for the lost time and opportunities,” the ex-MP said. Since the handshake, both President Uhuru and Raila have openly warned politicians and top government officials against hiding behind tribes and political parties in the war against corruption. They have said relevant government agencies charged with the responsibility of investigating and prosecuting corruption suspects be accorded full support. Click here for the latest political news