China has overtaken the World Bank to become Kenya's single largest creditor, accounting for 72 per cent of the total debt owed to foreign lenders. In just over ten years since Kenya turned from West to East, the government has borrowed Sh534 billion from China, slightly more than Sh508 billion owed to the World Bank, hitherto the leading lender. Kenya owes a whopping Sh5.011 trillion to local and international creditors, banks and countries and will spend 54 per cent of revenue collected in the current financial year to pay debts. Kenya is extremely disadvantaged in the expanding economic relationship with China. Ruto's brains The race to State House is still on even before President Uhuru Kenyatta completes the first year of his second term with many looking at his deputy as the front-runner. There are those that however believe that the DP should not take over from Uhuru. On Friday, the DP appeared to hit at his critics saying that his are not aimless politics, but good leadership that will spur the economy to greater heights. Deputy President William Ruto urged Kenyans to elect him in 2022 saying he has “enough energy and brains to serve and transform Kenya". Mau: Ruto's Waterloo? The dramatic evictions from the Mau and the resultant political fallout are back to the news. In fact, it was only a matter of time before it did. Caught in the middle of it are thousands of people huddled in uncomfortable spaces staring at the bleakness of their situation. It also happens to be the coldest time of the year, and what a bad time to sleep under the stars. And the little children are bearing the brunt, unable to go to school and unable to eat, sleep and play comfortably. In the political din that has followed their eviction, nobody has mentioned their plight of the evictees. They have been left to their own devices. The issue of the Mau is extremely complex, emotive and controversial. The politicisation of the matter by opposing camps is further worsening the situation. What is lost in the avalanche of reasons, is the actual truth about the situation. In Siasa, the Star seeks to debunk the myths and half-truths that nobody cares to speak about. Dollar flow Kenyans living in the diaspora for a long time have desired to be part of developments back home, even asking for opportunities to take part in the politics of their motherland. Yet they are quietly part of the local economic fabric, deeply involved in the day-to-day economics of the local populace. They are now inching for the space to develop investment vehicles that are custom-made for their needs. Read how savings and credit co-operatives have offered them a most needed home, as new saccos made of diaspora membership become the new development vehicle for hundreds of thousands of Kenyans living abroad.