Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula yesterday told President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Jubilee administration to stop dramatising the war on graft. He said in Kanduyi that the country is headed in the wrong direction and urgent measures must be taken to save it from collapse. The legislator said Kenyans are getting startling statistics on corruption scandals. “In the NYS saga, we were told over Sh8.5 billion was stolen. The government has taken people to court and charged them with stealing Sh416 million. Where is the rest of the money? Is this a game?” he asked. “Look at the case of Busia governor Sospeter Ojaamong. He and 10 officers are charged with signing an MoU that cost Sh8 million, but everyone knows that billions can’t be accounted for in most counties. So why bring such whimsical charges on an individual?” Wetang’ula welcomed the President’s directive on growth projects but questioned why it had to be issued after Parliament passed a budget “that has many new projects”. “I recently heard the President announce that new projects be frozen and the state only focus on completing ongoing ones. He is the Head of State, but the Constitution of this country must be followed,” he said. “Is he going to bring back the budget to Parliament or craft a supplementary budget so he reorganises, edits and removes new projects for him to focus on completing the old ones that in some areas have become white elephants?” Wetang’ula asked. He said prudent financial management requires that every expenditure by the executive be approved by Parliament and audited. “When such pedestrian statements are made by the President, they create serious government complications. Article 145 of the Constitution requires all important policy decisions by the President be made in writing and sealed. We want to see it so we know how to oversight the executive,” Wetang’ula said. The Bungoma senator cautioned that roadside directives could make room for corruption. Life is already unbearable for wananchi, he said. Wetang’ula said Ford Kenya supports the war on graft. The corrupt, whether low or mighty, must be punished, he said at his home. A cleaner who inflates the cost of a toilet roll and a PS who inflates concessions are all guilty in law, Wetang’ula added. He said the war on graft must not target a few individuals. “We want to see serious engagements,” the senator said. “Lifestyle audits should not be limited to procurement officers. Let it be against everyone working in public and doing business with the government to find out if there is value for money.”