There is something approaching an iconography for Kenyan politicians, i.e. a set of symbols and images. Your portfolio has to include the coverage of ‘doing a jig’ (keep those knees bendy!), there has to be something demonstrating your ability to hold more than one microphone, and ideally it also needs to include ‘sharing a light moment’ with someone also of importance. Better if you can do this in a church. In fact, always make sure that there is something in a church. You’re a man of god and any inexplicably large sums of money coming your way are blessings. Also, remember to book your salon appointments to get your head and facial hair painted. Politics may be draining and stressful, but not for you: you are invigorated, and you age in reverse. Not part of the starter pack, but a required element for an established politician: walking pictures. This is a performance art that I have long been intrigued with: You need to have the body guards nearby somewhere (or they wouldn’t really be bodyguarding), but see how all the village notables also try to squeeze into the picture! Walking is important, and being seen walking with important people is also important. Now of course you can argue that it is important for an elected representative of the people to show some interaction with the people. I don’t disagree with that. But the whole walking/launching/inspecting thing is so ubiquitous that it dulls you. I thought about this again when following the debates over the Deputy President ‘loitering’ across the country, which his defenders said was ‘launching’ and ‘inspecting’ development (and is really a sustained effort to build his network for 2022, but that’s a different story). Governors launching pillars, gates and footbridges now gets some well-deserved ridicule, but there is still way too little attention being paid to the fact that ‘inspecting’ and ‘launching’ really are not an efficient use of tax payers’ resources (because all those guys, from MCA upwards, earn ridiculous amounts of money). You don’t need to constantly inspect and launch if you have institutions that manage infrastructure construction properly, which would include control mechanisms to ensure the work is done according to set quality standards. As a governor or minister, it is your responsibility to ensure that such systems are set up, or improved. But as a commentary on Pakistan’s likely new PM noted: ‘Cutting ribbons on physical infrastructure is far preferable to the thankless grind of fixing a broken state.’ So the circus continues.  