Parliament yesterday stopped the Kenya Revenue Authority from implementing the Excisable Goods Management System on soft drinks. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi ruled that rolling out the new system without regulations being tabled and approved by the House would be illegal. "No person, body or authority has power to impose something that has the force of law without passing through Parliament," Muturi said. “If something that has force of law is being implemented without passing through this House, then it is null and void and If the regulations are gazetted and not tabled within seven days of gazettment in the House, it has no force of law,” Muturi said. Muturi issued the directive after Cherang'any MP Joshua Kutuny asked for directions on the implementation of the excise stamps on soft drinks which KRA was to roll out from August 1. Kutuny who had earlier appeared before Public Investment Committee had called for its suspension until the Auditor General concludes a forensic audit of the system that was single-sourced. “Manufactures are being forced to install this expensive system at their own costs when what is needed is only a simple reconfiguration on production lines to give KRA what they want,” Kutuny said. The EGMS e-tax service was supplied by Swiss firm SICPA Security Solution SA Ltd at a cost of Sh17.7 billion. If the new system will not be suspended, it means that bottled water, juices, soda, other non-alcoholic beverages and cosmetics imported or manufactured locally will have to be affixed with excise stamps. KRA wants manufacturers of non-alcoholic beverages, food supplements and cosmetics to affix excise duty stamps on their products to enhance tax compliance. Read:Safaricom announces new M-Pesa tariffs based on excise duty The excise duty stamps, rolled out in 2013 and initially focused on tobacco products, wines and spirits, have seen KRA extend its enforcement to other alcoholic beverages, and now non-alcoholic and bottled drinks to rid the market of counterfeit products. Kutuny said the average number of bottles of the soft drinks that are rolled out across all the manufucturers stands at an average of 30 million per day. SICPA will be collecting approximately Sh54 million if the Sh1.5 duty is imposed. “This means that in a month SICPA will mint Sh1.2 billion and Sh16 billion in a year. With a contract running for five years, SICPA will reap Sh81 billion in a tender originally negotiated for Sh17 billion. This is monumental rip off,” Kuttuny said PIC chairman Abduswamad Nassir said the committee foresaw danger if EGMS is implemented. He said the committee will meet KRA director general John Njiraini and advise with a view to having him suspend its rollout. "This will be fair warning to them because weighty issues have been raised by Kutuny on its procurement,” he said. “Article 227 of the Constitution is clear that any public officer who occasions loss of public funds will make good for the loss,” he said. The Finance committee chairman and Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo said the legal notice containing the charges of the e-stamps has not been brought to the attention of his committee. See:Court suspends new taxes under Finance Bill, 2018 Click here for the latest political news