Maize farmers yesterday threatened to hold demonstrations to protest against Treasury's failure to release Sh1.4 billion for their payment. A week ago, CS Henry Rotich pledged the cash would be released to the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) by Friday last week. NCPB said it was yet to receive the money, causing fury from farmers who were expecting to be paid. “We are aware CS Rotich publicly promised that the money was to be released last week but it looks like his interest was to scuttle our plans to carry out a protest," Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. He said the government was not telling farmers the truth. Kenya National Farmers Union (KNFU) chairman Musa Barno said they did not receive communication from NCPB on the delayed payments. Menjo said cartels had taken over control of the cereals sector due to loopholes in management. He said there will be more challenges because farmers are nearing the next harvest in October yet they have not been paid for maize delivered to NCPB in the last harvest. Rotich had directed the release of Sh1.4 billion to NCPB to pay farmers within a week. The CS said the payment was already being loaded in the Ifmis system. “We know there have been some delays but we value our farmers and I have instructed that the first payment in the new financial year will be that of farmers,” Rotich said when he spoke at Rivatex Company in Eldoret. The CS urged farmers not to panic, saying they would be given first priority. Earlier, farmers met in Eldoret and gave the government a one-week ultimatum to pay them Sh5 billion for maize delivered to the cereals board failure to which they would hold protests. “We will go ahead with our protests if the money is not paid," Menjo told the Star in his office. Menjo said they have been ignored and that the demos were their only remaining option. "Protest is the only way for farmers to be heard," he said Farmers have been waiting for the payment since December last year. Menjo said the government did not include the maize debt in the budget and no one had explained how the money would be paid. Click here for the latest political news