MPs Elisha Odhiambo (Gem) and Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) have accused their colleague Oscar Sudi of issuing remarks aimed at derailing the war on corruption. Oscar, who is Kapseret MP, recommended that the auditors begin with Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, who was Kenya's first President until his death in August 1978. It remains unclear if the dead or former presidents will also be subjected to the audits. Details: [VIDEO] Lifestyle audit should include Jomo Kenyatta, MP Sudi tells Uhuru Related: Corruption in Kenya goes way back: Which President will tame the vice? The two MPs told Sudi that he should respect the dead and President Uhuru Kenyatta who ordered the audits in a fresh war on corruption. Wandayi, who is Public Accounts Committee chair, noted he does not support historical injustices but added that "there is no way one can audit the dead". He asked: "Where are the dead coming in with the new wave of corruption at the NYS, Kenya Power, NCPB, and [the sugar industry]?" The MP warned those who have dipped their hands into public coffers that their tribes won't keep them from facing the music. "The lifestyle audits will happen in accordance with the law, not as per the wishes of any individuals with ulterior motives," he added during a function at Got Ramogi in Bongo County on Friday. "They are part of the fruits of the handshake. The fight against corruption has taken a new turn [just a few months] since the handshake. Those against the audits must be the culprits." He added that if the unity that began with Uhuru's March 9 handshake with Opposition leader Raila Odinga remains, Kenya will benefit in many ways. Also read: NYS culprits must resign to end 'circus' of scandals - PAC boss Odhiambo asked the President not to allow "politicians like Sudi to seek relevance through the names of the dead instead of letting them rest in peace". He said: "Who doesn't know lifestyle audits are for the living who pose a threat to public resources and not the dead who are resting in peace?" The lawmaker asked Uhuru not to allow "such cheap politics to rent the air" in his war on those stealing public funds. "I know there is a cold war in Jubilee Party between those supporting the war on corruption and those scared of the lifestyle audits. That is why some people are behaving suspiciously," Odhiambo said. He noted that the audits are the best way to fight corruption. Also read: Do not derail graft war, Jubilee MPs told Click here for the latest political news