Teachers' union Kuppet was taken to task on Friday over findings that exonerated Moi Girls' School in the alleged defilement of a student. Laini Saba MCA Cecilia Achieng' and Centre for Peace and Reconciliation's Yusuf Hamza accused the union of attempting to cover up for their own and defaming the minor who reported the incident last month. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations is yet to complete investigations. Related: Did Moi Girls' School attempt to cover up rape incident? Achieng told Kuppet not to divert public attention from the matter through "questionable investigations". "The DCI has not [released] a formal report nor has there been public communication from the Director of Public Prosecution on whether there will be criminal culpability on any person," the MCA noted. "Pending these laid down formal processes, I am appalled that Kuppet released findings of its investigations, which carry no formal authority, thereby causing much anguish, shock and trauma, especially to the victim, other students and parents." Achieng said "this premature speculation", without any attached annexes of the full investigations report, can only be interpreted as a diversionary tactic aimed at protecting a teacher. DEMANDS The ward representative demanded that the DCI expedite the investigation and reclaim full control of the matter "without undue pressure". "We demand that Kuppet share a full copy of the investigation report and [reveal] the firm or person who conducted it," she said. "[We also want] a complete list of persons interviewed, transcribed copies of the sessions, laboratories where they undertook analyses and certified copies [of the findings]." The MCA said Kuppet must respect the privacy of the minor in question and refrain from issuing degrading and defamatory statements. Achieng added that parents and education stakeholders should be involved in school safety matters. She also demanded security audits at all schools and centralisation of services by the Education ministry so that one firm provides these services at all learning institutions. "We need to have a discussion around safety in our schools. We have a very weird case of a girl who went missing from Ngara Girls," she said. Hamza said the Education ministry should keep male teachers out of girls' schools "to tame their fisihood". He condemned Kuppet for defending teachers before investigations are concluded. The Federation of Women Lawyers earlier demanded that teachers at Moi Girls' and their union officials be probed afresh for attempting to derail rape investigations. Police are investigating the case. They have collected DNA samples from 32 men. The Government Chemist was to release the results on July 2, but asked for a one-week extension. More on this: Fida, activists allege plot to hamper Moi Girls rape probe Also read: Police try to reconstruct the 'stranger than fiction' rape ordeal at Moi Girls Click here for the latest political news