There is no need for leaders to be in office if they cannot restore sanity and the hope of winning the war on corruption, Attorney General Paul Kihara has said. Kihara said it is unfortunate that as much as the national government is committed to ending the vice, most Kenyan professionals champion the theft of public money. "If we are unable to restore public trust and dignity in the offices in which we serve, we should just go home because we are not worth the trust of Kenyans who put us there in the first place," he said at Safari Park hotel in Nairobi County on Friday, during the closing of a two-day national convention for the Association of Professional Societies in East Africa’s (APSEA). He added: "When I came to this office, I knew the responsibility that lay upon me. I want people who come to my funeral to say 'this is the person who truly stood against corruption'. Under my watch, for sure, we shall overcome corruption." The AG regretted that Kenya has turned into a society where graft is normal. He accused professions such as doctors, architects, lawyers and politicians of championing the spread of the vice "We as professionals are the ones stealing and looting," he said. "Surprisingly I see many of these leaders flock our offices requesting that we recommend good lawyers for them because they know they have done ills and need protection. This really breaks my heart." On Thursday, EACC chief executive Halakhe Waqo said lawyers, engineers and accountants have been involved in facilitating cases of corruption in the country. He challenged professional associations to create organs of self-regulation to prevent their members from enabling corrupt deals and "to practice and ensure that their members fully live up to the calling of the profession." Related: EACC boss accuses lawyers, engineers of enabling corruption While explaining the gravity of the situation, the AG gave the example of graduates who carry the mindset of taking as much as they can into the work place so they can recover what they spent. "A policeman leaves Kiganjo and the first assignment is on a road block with instructions to collect cash," he said. "We have to make a personal choice to be accountable. The debate on corruption can go on and on so unless we make individual decisions [against the vice], we shall remain at the same place." Kihara further said it is evident that many Kenyans become "very uncomfortable" when corruption debates erupt because someone may step on their toes. "We need to be considerate of the sweat, pain, tears and blood that were shed for a better Kenya. We can't hold our heads high while influenced deals rob us of our patriotism," the AG said. While noting that many youths have allowed themselves to be dragged into the sin of corruption, Kihara challenged them to stand tall and confront the monster. "Young people, why have you allowed older people to drag you into the sin without telling us off? You must gather courage, as the future generation of leaders whether in church or government and tell us off on graft," he said. Related: [Speech] Paul Kihara left 'very large shoes' to fill at Court of Appeal - William Ouko Also see: Reject cancer of corruption completely, US tells Kenyans Click here for the latest political news  