Peter Drury has been termed passionate, wondrous, colourful, poetic, brilliant and a man capable of making the World Cup exciting, whether one's team is losing or winning. His descriptions of games are why women in Kenya and other parts of the world are crazy for him ... and the World Cup. The Sun said Drury's "flowery descriptions from Russia are proving so popular that he is regularly a trending topic in Africa". The news agency highlighted a description of a 2010 game at which South Africa took the lead against Mexico. Drury was quoted as saying: 'Goal Bafana Bafana! Goal for South Africa! Goal for all of Africa! Rejoice!' During the England-Croatia semi-final, which Croatia won to reach the final against France, Drury said: "French players somewhere in a hotel room wishing this goes on till 3 am, and that no one will be able to walk at the end of it." The game went into extra time. Drury also said: "Tonight, the Croats roar on, a roar which they ripped out of England's throat. The Three Lions were toothless, voiceless and their dream in tatters. It's not coming home, Britain, it has just limped away, maybe forever. Drury, 50, claims he started out by commentating on his mum's ironing and later learned how to express himself on the microphone. Regardless of how he picked up the skill, the commentator has left many women, and men, pleased. One 'Miss P' wrote on Twitter that she wants the man to commentate when she gives birth. Liza Namasiku said: "If Peter Drury opens up a church, I will join." Regarding the Croatia thrashing, a Kenyan on social media said it was as if the commentator was " reading a eulogy for a dying legacy of England". Seve Lebonyo wrote: "Meet Peter Drury who is imply of a class ... What a joy to listen to his commentaries." He added: "The guy is well-equiped with relevant knowledge, skills and experience that bring the best into football commentaries. The World Cup finale awaits you. Make us go crazy, that night, that moment." Maina Mungai termed Drury phenomenal and "from another planet". "In the wise words of the modern day philosopher, Peter Drury ... glorious ... to die for .. to smile about ... just to enjoy." Grace Kerongo said. Kan Ozturk added: "Best football commentator there is out there. And now he has Kenyan women all in a swoon." On Spain's loss to Russia, the commentator will be remembered for saying: "Spain on the plane, or Spain in the Russian rain…” During Champions league, when Roma produced an incredible comeback to beat Barcelona 3-0 and reach the semi-finals, Drury said "Roma have risen from their ruins" and that the unthinkable had unfolded. "This was not meant to happen, this could not happen, this is happening," he said, sensationally. He also said: "Barcelona, extraordinarily, (are) eight minutes from elimination. (Roma boss Eusebio) Di Francesco does not know where to go, (Andres) Iniesta does not know where to look. It's a Greek from Mount Olympus, who has come to the Seven Hills of Rome and pulled off miracle." Click here for the latest political news