Uasin Gishu Woman Representative Gladys Shollei has defended her absence from public functions in North Rift, saying she is not a flower girl. Residents had begun questioning Shollei's absence, but the MP said she opted to work from behind the scenes. Speaking to reporters in Eldoret on Friday, Shollei said she was not a flower girl to advertise herself by attending public functions to play populist politics. She said she had opted to concentrate on issues affecting women. The first-time lawmaker promised not to attend meetings where she has no clear purpose "because it would be a waste of time." “I can’t just start “kutangatanga” [loitering] around without a plan. I had to get organised by first understanding the needs of our people before coming out as I've done now," Shollei said. The former registrar of the Judiciary said she was dealing with issues of the most vulnerable population, which do not require publicity. “I will always do what I believe is useful to our people. I'm not ready to sell my soul just to please some people and win re-election. If my style will cost me my job, so be it," she said. Shollei was speaking during a breakfast meeting with the media to explain her agenda both within the county and in Parliament. She said she was drafting 10 bills on affirmative action, youth and education. “There are leaders who are good at making noise and playing populist politics, including throwing abuses. There are those like me who work behind the scenes. Each of us is gifted in different way,” Shollei said. She said she was optimistic residents will understand her style. A week earlier, the MP spent a whole day interacting with residents of Spain slums in Eldoret. Shollei was without her bodyguards. She engage women brewing chang'aa, sensitising them on the need for rehabilitation and alternative economic ventures. She promised to fund a group of 100 women to start a new business. Shollei is also pushing for a medical insurance scheme for boda boda riders in Uasin Gishu.