Nandi and
Kalenjin freedom fighters fought European invasion because of the Whiteman’s
immoral grabbing of African property, mainly land and livestock, which they
then illegally appropriated to themselves and their home guards (traitors).
They totally deprived, subjugated, isolated and impoverished the African
majority. It was brutal exploitation! Elsewhere in
Kenya, the story of freedom struggle, including the Mau Mau uprising, revolved
around restoration of indigenous Kenyans’ property and economic rights,
dignity, security and freedom. Mau Mau’s other name was the Kenya Land and
Freedom Army and it sought to expel the colonialists as well. Samoei is thus mentioned
in the same breath with other brave Kenyan liberation heroes and heroines such
as Field Marshall Dedan Kimathi, General Baimunge, Mekatilili wa Menza, Chief
Sakawa and Chief Kivoi. Their patriotism to Kenya is unmatched. In my own Gusii
community, Chief Sakawa and Otenyo Nyamaterere, a famous warrior, pioneered the
African freedom struggle. Otenyo bravely fought off the early Whiteman in Gusii
highlands. He famously speared a Mzungu DO to death, for which he was arrested
and banished to Kisumu, the then regional colonial headquarters, never to
return home. It later emerged that out of anger and embarrassment, the British
beheaded him and took his head to England. 
They too objected to the British grabbing of land, confiscation of
livestock, compromising of security and the dignity of the Abagusii. Today’s war
against corruption is driven by a similar philosophy. Corruption culprits and
their sympathizers must, therefore, be told in no uncertain terms that freedom
fighters and the founding fathers of this nation, who paid for our Independence
with their own blood and lives fight them more viciously if they were alive
today. They must be rioting in their graves! Samoei put up a
spirited fight to repulse the colonialists from invading Nandi and paid the
ultimate price. The Nandi has, ever since, revered him as their ultimate
martyr. His head was
dismembered from his body posthumously and taken to Europe as a war trophy by
the British, who acknowledged his military prowess and determination.  Like the other freedom heroes, he suffered
for the welfare and benefit of the community. Though fighting
off the erection of the Lunatic Express (Kenya-Uganda Railway) which had been
prophesised as a huge snake that would bring evil and massive suffering to his
people, the battle he wedged was to ward off the looming grabbing of Nandi vast
lands. This historic
Nandi resistance is well-chronicled in history books. It has been the basis of
the narrative of Nandi bravery and patriotism. The spirit was later reloaded by
the political resistance exploits of former maverick Tinderet MP Chelagat
Mutai, who made a mark as a pioneer female legislator to risk her life and
fore-go comfort by fighting bad governance, corruption and the Kanu
dictatorship. Samoei must be
seething with anger when he looks down at Nandi and Uasin Gishu counties and
sees pro-corruption individuals in leadership. Area politicians
led by Governor Stephen Sang and Senator Samson Cherargei, plus their brothers;
Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and MPs Cornelly Serem and Oscar Sudi should be told
that they have betrayed Samoei in a most sacrilegious manner. Could they be
“cultural or tribal outlaws”?  If a
community adores their martyrs, they are expected to live by and uphold their
values and teachings. Today’s
corruption deprives citizens of vital goods, services and better quality of
life. Perpetrators are outright saboteurs, worse than the real colonialists. Those
opposed want the robbing, impoverishment, bad governance and the corruption
induced bad quality of life to continue afflicting Kenyans. By Nandi and
Rift Valley leaders openly opposing the lifestyle audit and confronting the
bigger anti-corruption campaign by President Uhuru Kenyatta and the majority of
Kenyans, they are directly defiling the iconic, heroic and legendary works of
the great Orkoiyot and Mutai, among others, meant to restore the property,
freedoms, rights and dignity of the people. But because our
national heroes and heroines benchmarked for us the pursuits, virtues, values
and sacrifices for freedom, prosperity, economic freedom and true independence,
we should not give into these selfish and unpatriotic retrogressive politicians.
Instead, they should now be profiled properly and be lined up for thorough lifestyle
audits, without any discrimination, to clean up our good country.  The
writer is ODM National Treasurer and former Kitutu Masaba MP 