The EACC has complained that Kenyans appear to tolerate corruption and unethical conduct, are disengaged and do not properly participate in the fight against graft. This was one of the challenges the commission detailed in its report to Senate Justice and Legal Affairs Committee ahead of African Anti-Corruption Day which is marked on Wednesday. Read: Reject cancer of corruption completely, US tells Kenyans The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission further said that its operations are hampered by weak anti-corruption laws that have resulted in lack of powers to compel public bodies to comply with recommendations. It noted that its powers end with corruption risk assessments and reviews into systems and procedures of public bodies. The report further stated that slow judicial process, adverse judicial decisions and weaknesses in the legal and institutional frameworks remain the major challenges in the war on corruption. The commission said the number of appointed special anti-corruption magistrates is not adequate to effectively and expeditiously deal with the cases of corruption and economic crimes that are pending in court. It further noted that there are only two judges appointed to the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the high court. "In addition, judges and magistrates dealing with corruption cases are also allocated other cases," the report stated. "There are also frequent transfers in between the hearings of cases.' The commission, whose chairman is Eliud Wabukala, accused courts of issuing orders whose effect is to prohibit prosecution. Some of the orders issued in constitutional petitions and judicial review applications, the commission said, have stalled cases. Regarding resources, the anti-graft agency said the expansion of its mandate did not come with more resources for the attraction and retention of skills, knowledge and expertise for its goals to be achieved. "The Commission has established regional offices in 12 regions, where each region clusters a number of counties together. There is need to enhance presence so that its effect is felt widely across the country. The commission has service desks in all Huduma Centres in the country (except Mandera)," the report stated. It also asked for the support of chief executives, ministries, departments and agencies. "Heads of agencies and accounting officers should be in the forefront of establishing corruption prevention procedures in their respective agencies, and should also take penal action against members of staff in the agencies who violate ethical and integrity requirements. This has not been the case," the report noted. Related: EACC boss accuses lawyers, engineers of enabling corruption Also read: Corruption threatening to engulf government, my reports ignored - Edward Ouko The agency further reported that 312 were pending since their filing from 2013 to May 2018. "The commission recovered assets valued at Sh7,798,497,536 in the 2016/17 financial year and managed to trace illegally acquired and unexplained assets worth Sh4,913,000,000 between 2013 and 2017," the report stated. Some 352 asset recovery cases, of amounts of money totaling Sh5,964,560,056, are yet to be heard. "The commission has enhanced financial investigations and recovery of assets acquired from corruption, as a deterrence strategy. This is achieved through proactive disruptions, robust prosecution of recovery cases and increased use of ADR," the report said. Read: EACC yet to recover over Sh8 billion in illegally acquired assets - report Click here for the latest political news 