 Mandera MCAs have agreed to end their political differences and share house committee positions in the spirit of handshake. The 10 committee chair positions had been taken by members of the Economic Freedom
Party (EFP) which is the the majority. Speaking
to reporters in Mandera town on Saturday, the MCAs led by Majority leader Abdi
Adan said the change of heart was prompted by the political reconciliation and building
bridges initiative of the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. “As
EFP, we have agreed to give some positions in the committees to
Jubilee party members. The decision was reached after serious negotiations,” Adan said. The discussions were held during a bonding and reconciliation meeting at the Masaai Mara last week. “EFP used its numbers in the house to grab all leadership positions. We've decided that politics is over. We're now one team that
has to work for the good of Mandera residents,” Adan said. In the agreement, Sala MCA (Jubilee) will chair the peace and security
committee. The party also got the vice chair positions for all the other
nine committees       Out
of the ten committees, Jubilee got the chairman’s position of one and nine vice
chairman positions. Minority
Leader Jimale Abdi Hassan said they agreed to share the committee seats in
order to reduce tension in the assembly. “EFP
banked on its tyranny of numbers when we were electing leaders and members of
all these committees but we have reached an agreement that led to these
changes,” he said. Peace
and Security committee will be chaired by Sala Ward MCA Abdirashid Maalim Osman
who is a Jubilee member. “I
am very ready to carry out my duties and I will work to ensure peace, unity and
cohesion is maintained among our clans that are ever fighting,” he said. Osman
promised to work with the executive in ensuring peace prevails in Mandera and
also engage national security teams in finding a solution to the terror menace
in Mandera. “I
have to present assembly recommendations to the national government security
apparatus in Mandera on how we can best fight terrorism,” he said. Another
beneficiary of this reconciliation process is Noor Mohamud , the only ODM
member in the 48-member assembly. Noor
will be deputizing the Health Committee Chairman Shabaan Hassan Hillow. EFP
members took advantage of the political stalemate that rocked the county after
the August General Elections and took over all the committees. He
argued that the law defined what the majority party deserved and what the
minority party was to control. Mandera
has experienced a political stalemate since the last election after EFP claimed
that Governor Ali Roba (Jubilee)  unfairly won the seat .their candidate  Hassan Noor Hassan come second. ENDS…..