Sudanese author Leila Aboulela takes us to into the dusty alleys and secluded homes of Khartoum city with a family drama called Lyrics Alley. Nur Abuzeid is the second-born son of a wealthy Sudanese family in the 1950s. Nur’s mother, Waheeba, is a country-born uneducated woman and the family matriarch. His father is a successful businessman with a younger second wife called Nabilah, a stylish woman living in Cairo with her daughter. All hopes for the future of the Abuzeid businesses rest with the smart and sensible Nur and not his reckless elder brother, who is also a heavy drinker. Since childhood, Nur has been close friends with his beautiful cousin Soraya, a wilful and book-loving girl. But Nur and Soraya’s dreams of a life together are shattered when Nur breaks his back while diving into the sea. Suddenly the Abuzeid family is thrown into turmoil and faced with uncertain prospects, as its favourite son becomes permanently disabled. During this time of dashed hopes, Nur starts writing poetry in earnest, a practice his family disdains as being beneath his social status. But his tutor, a poor religious man called Badr, supports him until eventually, his lyrics gain wide popularity on public radio. Soraya is heartbroken when her pragmatic uncle refuses to sanction marriage to his crippled son. She channels her energies into completing her education at a Catholic school and be the “first Abuzeid girl to step into university”. Soraya illustrates the modern-thinking Sudanese woman breaking traditional boundaries, even as marriage and family life beckon. Six characters give voice to this tale, which sometimes rambles in different directions. The clash of old and new ideologies is demonstrated between the traditional Waheeba and her westernised co-wife, who compete for their husband’s attention and hold differing views about female circumcision. Their mutual scorn also echoes an underlying disdain between their two countries, with Sudan more frequently presented as the backward province. The narrative travels between Sudan and Egypt, interspersed with Nur’s poignant lyrics. The society is Islamic but religion is presented in moderate tones. The historic setting is a time of heightened nationalism and anti-colonial sentiments. But Aboulela mostly focuses on the family drama playing out in the Abuzeid home. Here we see individuals struggling to come to terms with lost love, shattered visions, cultural prejudices, faith and female liberation. The emotional journey is where the appeal of the story lies. Parts of the book mirror the author’s life. Aboulela, 54, is the Muslim daughter of an Egyptian mother and Sudanese father who was born in Cairo, raised in Khartoum and attended Catholic school. Her uncle was the famous Sudanese poet, Hassan Awad Aboulela, who started writing poems following a diving accident. Aboulela was the first winner of the Caine Prize for African writing, in 2000. In 2011, Lyrics Alley was shortlisted for the Commonwealth Prize and won the fiction category of the Scottish Book Awards.  Star Rating: 4/5