The Constitution grants immunity and shields the holder of the Office of the President from prosecution while in office. This does not in any way place the President above the law. He is subject to the law. He must adhere to and operate within the confines and dictates of the law. As to whether President Uhuru Kenyatta does that is a debate for another day. This is what may have informed the Senate to come up with the Impeachment Procedures Bill 2018. The Bill seeks to provide a procedural framework through which a president, deputy president, cabinet secretary, governor or deputy governor may be impeached and the expected levels of thresholds to be upheld. The Jubilee government came into office in 2013 with numerous and ambitious promises to turn the country around and engineer socioeconomic transformation. During its first term, the administration was quite robust in its conduct of government business that displayed a sense of urgency and purpose to meet the aspirations of Kenyans. Substantial ground was covered starting with the setting up of 47 county governments complete with county executives and the county assemblies. But there have been challenges with accountability, corruption, theft and disregard for the rule of law, arrogance and impunity, especially on matters of integrity. This is the reason why calls by Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok (Turkana) for immunity from prosecution while in office flies in the face of the fight against corruption. This call has elicited anger and condemnation. Kenyans are fully behind the President in the renewed fight against the endemic corruption that is bleeding the country dry. Office holders are abusing their positions to loot public resources, employ relatives and award them lucrative tenders, among many ills and illegalities. They seem to be accountable to no one. Appointments are whimsical to say the least and are done without regard to set procedures or laws in place. A case in point is the ongoing establishment of municipal boards. The haste with which some counties have made nominations and vetted the nominees is suspect. There is neither respect to public participation, gender requirements, diversity in counties or competence and inclusion of stakeholders as the Urban Areas and Cities Act 2011 requires. The focus is on the World Bank funds going to 66 municipal boards in the counties. The National Treasury and Salaries and Remuneration Commission circulars for governors to have official residences have been taken advantage of at the taxpayers’ expense. Is it not time to audit this Constitution? It was enacted to help Kenyans develop constitutionally and democratically with the attendant socioeconomic and environment advancement through an accountable leadership. Kenyans want to have every available shilling channelled to better health services and coverage for all; better housing; roads; bridges; ports; and airports. They want jobs and access to quality water. They want education aligned to market demands, especially for blue collar, self-employment and technical skills enhancement. They want welfare for the elderly in society and to ensure food security and sufficiency is achieved and sustained. Kenyans look to the government to plan and put in place strategies of expansion and diversification of available revenue streams and sectors of blue economy, mining, technology and airspace. Leaders who are worried and are indeed expressing their fears of being called to account for their actions while in office whether through lifestyle audit, the war on corruption, parliamentary committees, or any form of public inquiry need to leave public office. Appointment or election into public office is an opportunity to serve and not for self-aggrandisement. Governors who cannot take the heat in the kitchen of public service, with all it comes with, should voluntarily leave the public kitchen.