One of the five people accused of defrauding a Brazilian national of Sh23 million in a fake gold deal has denied the charges. Roy Shirekuli pleaded not guilty to the charge when he appeared before chief magistrate Francis Andayi Milimani law court on Monday. He was accused of conspiring with the four others who were charged on July 24. The four are Philip Aroko, lawyer Munzala Rumili, Sikanda Abdala Saleh, and Ugandan national Kayombya Gorman alias Timothy Mureithi. The accused were each released on Sh1 million bond or Sh500,000 bail. Gorman pleaded guilty to an additional charge of being in the country unlawfully. Shirekuli failed to appear in court on July 24, 2018 when the others were taking a plea as he had travelled to his village in Bungoma county to take care of his ailing mother. The suspects are said to have obtained the money from Samir Entorno at their company's [Avaals Metals Company Ltd] offices on 5th Ngong Avenue between May 15 and June 9, 2018. They allegedly lied they would ship eight kilograms of gold to Dubai for the businessman. Aroko is the director of Avaals Metals Company Ltd that was to sell gold to the complaint. In a sworn affidavit, DCI detective Gerald Kamwaro says Aroko and Ismael are habitual offenders who have several active cases in criminal courts and sought to have them denied bond terms. The case will be mentioned on August 9, 2018. Kamwaro said Aroko has a case in Kibera Law Courts while Ismael has a case of similar nature at Milimani Law Courts in which a warrant of arrest was issued against him. He added that "this is a clear indication that the accused persons are committing offenses while out on bond and therefore they should be denied bail". The prosecution said the cash is yet to be recovered. The court heard that the complainant had travelled from Brazil to Kenya to look for business opportunities where he was introduced to the fraudsters. Read: Five charged with taking businessman's Sh23 million in fake gold deal Click here for the latest political news