Businessman Jaswant Rai has served Nation Media Group with a suit notice in relation to publications he says portray him as the mastermind of the importation of contraband sugar. Through his lawyers, Rai said three publications by the media house showcase him as the architect of the illegal activities as a well-orchestrated campaign to subvert ongoing investigations. He took issue with the articles which he said further portrayed him as the individual behind the collapse of state-owned sugar factories. “We find it unfortunate, to say the least, that a newspaper with the history and reputation of avowed commitment to promoting rights and integrity in governance can lend itself to such an obvious machination,” Rai said through Oraro & Company Advocates. The articles were published between June 22 and July 2, according to Rai. “The issue that baffles our client is why a newspaper of your standing can decide to pursue a partisan position and unprecedented character assassination on an issue of such grave national importance,” the lawyers said. They demanded that the articles be removed from circulation and an unconditional apology be issued to Rai within seven days. “Admit liability for the damage caused to our client by the defamatory article... we shall engage you on the issue of compensation for the damage to our client’s reputation and for any loss it has and/or may have suffered.” Rai also demanded that Nation publishes a retraction and correction of the underlying facts with the same prominence as the articles. “Take notice that unless you comply with the demands herein before or within the next seven days, our mandatory instruction is to file a suit at your own risk as to costs and other incidentals,” the lawyers said. Rai appeared on Tuesday before a joint parliamentary committee probing the sugar saga. He stated that all sugar importations he made under his TS Rai Ltd were above board as they were approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. The joint committee has until Thursday to submit its report which is expected to unravel the faces behind the illegal importation of sugar. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has over time said investigations have revealed that the sugar contains harmful chemicals including mercury, lead and copper. More on this: Rai quizzed as millers’ bosses summoned Also read: Only four companies were licensed to import raw sugar, Kebs tells MPs Click here for the latest political news