IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and two commissioners have been ordered to appear personally in court over the suspension of CEO Ezra Chiloba. The Employment and Labour Relations Court yesterday directed Chebukati to appear alongside commissioners Abdi Guliye and Boya Molu within 30 days to show cause why they should not be held in contempt for suspending Chiloba. During the hearing, the commission put up a spirited fight to have Chiloba’s contempt of court application dismissed. The IEBC argued that the court has no jurisdiction to hear the petition and the decision to suspend Chiloba is a new course of action, which is not related to the compulsory leave that the court had ruled on. The IEBC said Chiloba should have filed a new petition on his suspension, because the one in court is on compulsory leave. The commission also argued that the issue alleged by Chiloba, that the IEBC lacks quorum, is untrue. It said several courts have ruled that as long as there are three commissioners then the commission is property constituted. The court heard a preliminary audit report filed in court by the IEBC has not been given to Chiloba because he has not been charged with any offence. Read : IEBC crisis persists as Chebukati suspends Chiloba yet again In response to the IEBC’s submissions, Chiloba through lawyer Andrew Wandabwa said the petition before court was merited and there is no need to file a new one. Wandabwa said there is sufficient materials to show lack of due process when Chiloba was suspended. He said the suspension letter does not say what he is being investigated for. He said they are yet to be supplied with the preliminary audit report which the commission says is the reason why the CEO was suspended. He said the IEBC is not properly constituted and has no quorum to suspend Chiloba. The case will be mentioned on July 19. Last week, Chebukati filed an affidavit, saying they had received a preliminary report from the internal auditor, which has raised serious issues of possible misappropriation and wastage of public funds during last year’s general election. Chebukati also defended the move to send the CEO on suspension, arguing that it is still a preliminary disciplinary process that may end with clearing Chiloba’s name. Read : Chebukati points finger at Chiloba as audit reveals Sh1 billion loss Click here for the latest political news