Two legislators from Wajir county have urged the government to investigate the killing of two people whose bodies were found in shallow graves on Friday. The
bodies of Adan Dabra and Abdikadir Jimaale, a madrassa teacher, were discovered by herders between Kutulo and Bojigarass, where an improvised explosive device killed eight police officers in early June. They had been missing for five days and were among four people reportedly picked up by security officers from their shops in Konton and Khorof Harara. Police launched an operation in parts of Tarbaj and Wajir East sub counties after the officers were killed. Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim yesterday accused the government of "turning against its own people by killing them". “The state had the duty to protect the lives of these innocent Kenyans and their right to a fair legal process. If indeed the two had violated any laws or suspected of any wrongdoing, they ought to have been arrested and accorded a fair trial. Killing them was completely uncalled for,” Kassim told the Star on the phone. He said the relevant agencies should expedite investigations and bring to book the culprits. "Justice must be seen to be done to the families of the victims,” he said. Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi said while terrorism should be dealt with, it can only be fought through joint efforts, not extrajudicial killings. She questioned why the government and human rights crusaders have been silent on the matter. Meanwhile, some Kharsa residents who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity described Dabar's death as a "big breakthrough ion the fight against terror". A local elder said Dabar was a thorn in their flesh as he supplied al Shabab militants with food, water and other commodities. He was the brother of Ahmed Dabar, who is also on police list of most wanted persons. “We have always known him to be a bad person but we could not dare report him to the authorizes least he come for you. He had even bough a plot in Kharsa town which he had started constructing  from the money they[al shabaab] were paying him,” he said. Last week, area county Commissioner Lyford Kibaara when asked by journalist about the missing people said that the matter was under was under investigations .