Chandarana food-plus Supermarket has apologised after an email with racist marketing strategy went viral. The supermarket's latest promotion on free gift was focused on white people. “We are delighted to inform you that our supermarket chain, would like to give you free vouchers to winner/raffles/best performer/runners-up candidate in upcoming events. As we are now focusing on white people to 'attract our supermarkets' sic,” read the mail in parts. The management, however, apologised saying the 'error was done by a newly recruited staff in the marketing department'. “Chandarana Foodplus would like to sincerely apologise for the unfortunate and insensitive narrative written on email by one of our very new and recent hires in the marketing department,” the company said in a statement. The email was sent by Rima Patel, who is a Marketing Specialist at the store. “Her lack of proficiency in English is an easy way to justify this horrendous error, while this is actually the case it really does not make it excusable in any way,” read the apology. Chandarana Food Plus Supermarkets, whose official name is Chandarana Food Plus Supermarkets Limited, is a Kenyan supermarket chain according to the Wakipedia. It was founded in 1964 and has employed about 1,100. KOT reacted furious over the remarks under the hashtag #ChandaranasSoRacist. Ledama ole Sempele‏ @ledamasempele wrote @ChandaranaSuper Shame!!! For that remark, your guys have made....and you call yourselves Kenyan-Indian....have you ever seen a Black person leave alone Kenyan call themselves Afican-Indian? Son of Kenya wrote" Asian businesses will 'import' their relafriends from wherever and give them jobs they have zero experience on n fat salos. Saw that from a previous employer. I can bet the case is so here," “At this rate your right to speak or write in English maybe withdrawn. You cannot be allowed to drag the Queen’s language in mud. From Racism to messing up the English Language,”  Mohamed Hersi. While Samia Omar said, “ I was first mad, then read the replies from Chandarana Foodplus, The grammar wah!! Now I think this email might just have been written by the same person managing their account and s/he just doesn’t know English. What does “white people to attract our supermarket” mean???” Read:'Racist' exchange in South African restaurant causes national outrage 