The National Oil Corporation has renewed its sponsorship deal with the Kenya women’s volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, worth Sh42 million which will run for three years. The initial deal ran from 2014 and expired in 2016. The exit of the sponsors two years ago saw Kenya Volleyball Federation fail to send a team to the World Grand Prix last year, citing financial constraints. The renewal of the deal wouldn’t have come at the right time as Malkia Strikers are currently in training ahead of the World Championship set for September 29 to October 20 in Japan. KVF chairman Waithaka Kioni lauded the development and challenged other entities to follow suit. Kioni said KVF have a busy schedule with four teams lined up to feature in different championships. They include the national men and women’s Under-20 teams, who will take part in the Africa Nations Championship; Malkia Strikers ‘B’ set for next month’s East Africa Games and the Malkia strikers, who will take part in the global show. “We are happy to be renewing our partnership with NOCK. Their support over the years has been tremendous in enhancing our activities locally and internationally. Your continued support has ensured we remain on this path of success.” He added: “ I also recognise the efforts the government through the Ministry of Sports have made in as far as the sports is concerned and look forward to a continued working relationship.” Malkia Strikers captain Mercy Moim expressed her joy over the sponsorship windfall. “On behalf of the team, I would like to thank National Oil Corporation for this long-term commitment to sponsor our activities. Through this partnership, the ladies feel confident of the growth and development of the volleyball,” said Moim. National Oil Corporation CEO Maryjane Mwangi, said the renewal of the sponsorship is a demonstration of her company’s commitment to grow sports in the country. “As a corporation, we also believe this investment in the Malkia Strikers is instrumental in promoting volleyball and by extension sports in Kenya. Sports are the world’s greatest activities that unites people irrespective of their race, tribe, gender or political affiliation,” noted Mwangi.