The speed at which the Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has quickly mastered House procedures has impressed some senators. On Thursday, some members having a chit chat at their lounge were overheard marveling at how the former Bungoma governor has performed beyond their expectations and, despite being a Jubilee man, he has led the House impartially. They said that while there were fears initially that Lusaka would go hard against his hitherto nemesis and Bungoma senator Moses Wetang’ula, he had shown mature leadership. The two leaders could not see eye to eye ahead of the 2017 General Election. *** A certain man who has strived to portray himself as powerful and connected to State House may not be that connected after all. Corridors is informed that the man who has a craving to appear in the media to catch the attention of the Presidency was barred from accessing State House three months ago after he was found out to be fomenting wars between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The hyper talkative man who is said to have recently sponsored several anti-Ruto press conferences in Nairobi couldn’t believe that despite the propaganda he is churning out, the relationship between Uhuru and Ruto is still intact. ** A number of Cabinet secretaries and some Principal secretaries have gone into panic mode. Reason? It is becoming clear to them with each passing day that Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji could order for their arrest in connection with the controversial Ruaraka land transactions in Nairobi. The DPP is under pressure from the members of public who want to see him arrest the powerful individuals in government who are said to be trying as much as possible to push the ball to officials of the National Land Commission. It is only a matter of days before the senior government officials spend a night behind bars, sources told Corridors. **** Two MPs who have become permanent residents of Parliament have now become the butt of jokes among their colleagues and staff. Our mole eavesdropped on a sideline chat of three Mt. Kenya MPs who claimed that the two outspoken male MPs have not set foot in their constituencies during the two-week recess coming to an end on Tuesday next week. The MPs have been loitering within Parliament premises and are said to be facing an uphill task moving in their constituencies due to their dismal performance since their election 11 months ago. On the other hand, the two legislators are freely available to accompany their colleagues for press conferences in Parliament.