A parliamentary committee yesterday put Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina to task after he admitted corporation land has been grabbed, but did not know the names of the grabbers. Members of the National Assembly’s Public Investment Committee querried Maina on the Auditor General’s report which said the corporation’s land has been grabbed by private developers. The committee said it was despicable that the management does not know the people who have stolen their land. Committee chairman and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir blamed the management of Kenya Railways for failing to protect public property under their custody through acquisition of title deeds, thereby exposing them to grabbing. “It is unacceptable that you do not know the people who have grabbed your land and you are telling us that you know the size of your land. You even do not have allotment letters,” Nassir said. Rashid Amin MP Wajir East asked, “Why has it taken too long for Kenya Railways to get documents of their land which they acquired as early as independence?” Maina told the committee he will name the individuals who have grabbed the land. He said land along the railway corridor - Nairobi, Nakuru, Nanyuki, Kisumu, Bungoma and Malaba - has been grabbed by private developers whose names will be unearthed in an ongoing survey and registration of land to acquire titles. Read:Kenya Railways land was grabbed, Auditor General report says “Our surveyors have told us that they will complete their work by end of August,” Maina said. He blamed former commissioners of land and the defunct local authorities for dishing out the land. “Commissioners of land or local authorities back then might have allocated land belonging to Kenya Railways to private individuals. No letters were written to us to authorise any transfer of ownership to anyone and therefore we consider that as abuse of office and action should be taken,” Maina said. When the MPs asked why he has not complied with a directive by the Head of Public Service that had directed that all state agencies provide data on the land they own, Maina told the committee it was only on Monday that he was made aware of the circular issued in March. “I have not received any letter from NLC requesting me to provide any information,” he said. The National Lands Commission warned that failure by state corporations to provide documents exposes them to grabbing by people who collude with officials Also Read:Ahmednasir accused of grabbing Imara land Click here for the latest political news   