A boda boda rider's body was found metres from Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi's official residence along Old Ferry road on Tuesday morning. It is believed that the rider identified only as Gift was killed by the passenger he ferried from Kibaoni stage at about 11 pm on Monday night. His body was found by fishermen on their way back home at around 6 am. Gift's motorcycle was stolen. “The rider had several cuts from a sharp object. We have scanty information but we are liaising with the company which installed a tracking device on the motorcycle," Kilifi police boss Patrick Njoroge said." We hope to make arrests soon." The fishermen alerted village elder Khamis Juma who went to the scene and then called the area chief. While noting that the area has become insecure, Juma asked the county to install lights up to the Old Ferry landing site. "We have witnessed several incidences of insecurity in this area because it is very dark during the night. Street lights will help," he said.  The knife found next to the body of a boda boda rider along Old Ferry road in Kilifi County, July 10, 2018. /ELIAS YAA Rukia Juma, a fish monger who buys fish at Old Ferry, noted that repairs were needed as the lights became faulty. She noted that "dogs guarding lavish apartments in the area" helped prevent three robberies in three weeks. “If it were not for the dogs people would have lost property. The streets lights to the Governor’s residence should be repaired and the line extended to Old Ferry," she said. "There are hotels and high end apartments in this area but police do not patrol. The area is isolated and fishermen use this route every night. Our lives are in danger." Resident Constance Maitha asked security officers to device ways to deal with criminals who target boda boda operators. “We have had several meetings with riders and security officers but there has been no follow up. Their lives also matter. We expect to see measures taken to control their movement especially during the night,” said Maitha Click here for the latest political news