Interpol police are pursuing three Kenyans suspected to be cocaine traffickers. Coast Regional Police Commander Noah
Mwavindah said the trio escaped frOM a neighboring country three weeks ago. The
details were revealed on Sunday at Mombasa police headquarters during a security briefing. Interpol has been charged with arresting and bring
the threeto Kenya for prosecution. Mwavindah said they hailed from Likoni and traded huge
amounts of cocaine and bhang. “They have been classified. They may run today but will
not escape forever,” the police boss said but did mention names as it will jeopardise investigations. “This
is a business that we are committed to ending." Kenya has increasingly become the preferred route of illegal traders and international drug traffickers. In 2016, cocaine worth Sh600 million was seized at Mombasa port by police. UN reports have indicated that at least two major international narcotics trade routes converge in Mombasa. In 2017, the government stepped up efforts to end the trade and warned that foreigners dealing in narcotics will expatriated. The warning followed the extradition of the Akashasas to the US, an operation in which Interpol played a pivotal role. Read: Akasha sons, two foreigners extradited to US to face drug trafficking charges Mwavindah further said security operations in Boni Forest had been intensified. “There is terror challenge but we have
contained the attacks. Special forces on the ground have penetrated the
forest,” he said. The official further said that 19 traders were on their radar after their
godowns were flagged over suspicion of dealing in contraband rice, sugar and fertiliser. “The consignment was taken to Nairobi for further analysis and the businesses closed,” he said, adding arrests will
be made. Mwavindah further noted that over
700 gambling machines were seized across the region. “Three hundred and twelve were destroyed. The
rest will be destroyed tomorrow. Seven were destroyed in In Taita Taveta, 14 in Kwale, three in Lamu, 92 in Kilifi and five in Tana River." Mwavindah also spoke of disputes between herders and farmers in Tana River. Related: I will smoke out drug dealers, vows MP Ali Click here for the latest political news