ICT systems at all the 62 Huduma centres in the country failed on Thursday due to lack of payments to suppliers. The centres were established in 2013 amid President Uhuru Kenyatta's efforts to improve service delivery. The systems failure left many Kenyans stranded. Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia did not answers calls and SMSs for comment on the matter. Huduma Kenya CEO Dennis Mutuku, who was interviewed by phone, dismissed claims that the centres had been shut down, saying only ICT-related services were not being offered. Mutuku admitted that some suppliers had pulled out due to accumulated payments. "We are experiencing technical challenges as some suppliers withdrew their services. We had expected that by June 30, being the end of the 2017 financial year, we would have cleared their money but unfortunately we could not," he said. Asked about the number of suppliers who had pulled out and the amounts of money they are owed, the CEO said he could not give details. "Let me say categorically state that this is a normal supplier-client issue that has affected all the centres. We cannot divulge more information as deliberations on restoring the sevices are on," he said. Related: Government suppliers go unpaid as corruption depletes state coffers With the main objective being to improve accountability and transparency, the centres have seen Kenya pushed to the 92nd position in public service delivery globally. Kenya has earned five global awards including the United Nations Public Service Award in June 2015 in the ‘Improving the Delivery of Public Services’ category. Services offered include issuance of ID cards, online renewal of drivers' licences, assessment of stamp duty and franking of documents, application for access to government procurement opportunities, registration of self-help groups and CBOs, registration of welfare societies, search of business names, registration of business names, registration of limited companies and student loan application (undergraduate). Others are body mass index, blood pressure and blood sugar checks, registration for electricity supply, registration of voters, issuance of self-declaration forms, payment of rent, rates and impounding charges, liquor licensing and seasonal parking ticket services. Read: Huduma Centres raise Kenya’s ranking to position 92 globally Also read: New Huduma Centre in Iten to start operations Monday Click here for the latest political news