One reason people fail and keep failing is: excuses. Some people have embraced a lifestyle of excuses. There is always a ‘good’ reason for poor or no delivery. Commitments are not taken seriously, and agreements are broken without thinking. And there is a ‘good’ reason for sloppiness. It’s not the person’s fault. Factors didn’t align – “it rained, that’s why I’m late for the 7th time.” Excuses. To be successful, you must be ready to take 100% responsibility for every outcome or results that you experience. Lateness is a habit, do not blame it on the rain. Meanwhile, your habitual lateness is making you lose clients and money. Your poor bank balance reflects your time habit. Now, you’re broke as a result. Own the outcome. It is YOU. Not the rain. Your level of achievement, the quality of your relationships, the state of your health, your income level is all YOU. We tend to blame the uncooperative elements in our environment for the outcomes we experience. That’s not helpful. It’s not your boss, it’s YOU. It’s not what your parents did or didn’t do, it’s YOU. The real problem is YOU. Period. This might sound harsh. But, it’s waste of time to look outside of yourself for answers to why you’ve not created your dream life. You are the root of every experience in your life. Your thoughts, choices and actions add up to the cocktail you now call your life. You produced the results you now have. So, first look within. The good news is that: when you take 100% responsibility, you regain your power. Past choices got you here. But now, you can make different choices to take you in a different direction. And you can start moving towards your desired destination now. Most importantly: stop blaming people, places or circumstances and stop complaining. Blaming and complaining drains your energy and steals your power – you feel helpless because you believe that people need to change for you to make progress. Sadly, they may never change – and in that case, what do you do? Therefore, it is vital to take back your power by taking full responsibility. The successful understand this principle and abhor excuses. Instead of making excuses, they take 100% responsibility, which in turn, sets them up for clear thought. And clarity of thought makes room for profitable ideas. The successful understand that opportunities are lost when excuses become the default response to life. Excuses create loses – and I’m sure you want to win. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com