The Inspector General of Police and National Police Service do not know the whereabouts o abducted Mombasa boy Husni Mbarak, the Attorney General has said. The family of the 18-year-old has sued the IG and police over his disappearance. Mbarak was walking casually back to work at his father’s workshop near Sapphire Hotel in Mombasa’s Central Business District after Jumaa prayers on May 25, when three people accosted and took him. HIs father Mbarak Khalid said the IG and police illegally arrested or abducted his son. He also sued the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution. More on this: [VIDEO] Alarm in Mombasa over increasing cases of abduction Through Guyo Wachira, however, the AG's office told a court on Wednesday that Mbarak
was not in the police custody and that police did not know where he was. “I feel the family's pain but there is nothing we can do,” Wachira said. Judge Erick Ogola had ordered police to produce the boy dead or alive but they failed twice to do so. Ogola said police and the IG did not take seriously the order he first issued last Friday. Details: Police fail to produce abducted Mombasa boy The directive was for the
IG and the DPP to be personally served with habeas corpus orders for the production of the boy. "There was need for the state organs to take my orders seriously. Habeas corpus orders ensure human life is treated with dignity," he noted. He added that nobody is above the law so people sent to serve court orders cannot be chased away. Ogola issued these remarks after the family's lawyer said he attempted in vain to serve the AG and the DPP in Nairobi as directed in the June 29 order. The lawyer said they were sent away and asked to serve the Mombasa's DPP office. Ogola directed the family to file a
formal application on being sent away from the offices. He also directed all respondents to
respond to right group Haki Africa's request to be joined to the case. The matter will be mentioned on July
11. Click here for the latest political news