A national executive committee council has been formed to spearhead the rolling out of ICT infrastructure across the country as the completion of the Konza headquarters has been scheduled for November. The National ICT Steering Committee membership will be drawn from the three standing committees; Ministry of ICT, ICT Committees of Council of Governors, National Assembly and Senate. The Steering Committee has been tasked with providing leadership in; ICT infrastructure roll out across the country, creating employment and wealth through and within the ICT sector and ensuring efficient and transparent delivery of services to Kenyans through use of various ICT channels. Read:Laptops to be updated with new content “The Ministry is committed to ensuring that ICT becomes the foundation from which the Big 4 are planned, executed, realized tracked and reported,” ICT CS Joe Mucheru said. Speaking during a tour at Konza , the team was informed that Konza City Headquarters is scheduled for completion on November 23, 2018. Konza is a key plank of Kenya’s ambition to become East Africa’s tech hub. Further, Konza management said that the tender for construction of Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) will be awarded in September and construction to start soon thereafter. Read:Laptop project money redirected to Konza KAIST, modelled around South Korea’s Institute of Science and Technology, is expected to be completed by 2021, with the first batch of 200 of 600 graduate students starting classes in 2022. Speaking at the same event, The National Assembly ICT Chair, William Kisang challenged the Ministry of ICT to urgently set up a National Datacenter. “The Ministry must move with speed and set up a National Data Center. This lack of a data centre is a big risk for us as a country”, Kisang said. Baringo Senator and Chair of Senate ICT Committee, Gideon Moi applauded the ministry’s efforts to create jobs through Ajira Program. The senator further challenged Konza Technopolis to protect wildlife within the area. “This land is on the wildlife corridor. I’m happy to hear you are thinking of the greenery, but you must ensure that there’s a migration corridor for animals. Our children should benefit from technology but must also enjoy the beauty of our wildlife, ”he said. Click here for the latest political news   