President Uhuru Kenyatta’s appointments made last week have nothing to do with his handshake with Raila Odinga, three ODM lawmakers said yesterday. Uhuru on Friday reshuffled his Cabinet and appointed new Principal Secretaries and envoys. Allies of Raila were included in the appointments. Jared Okello (Nyando), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Onyango K’Oyoo (Muhoroni) said the allies were not included as a result of the handshake. Okello said the handshake was meant to unite Kenyans and address thorny issues, including past injustices. He said Uhuru wanted to correct wrongs committed in the past when most government jobs were preserved for people from certain communities. He said the appointments were inclusive and called for more to be done to meet Kenyans’ expectations. Okello said appointments ought to reflect regional balance. “We expect government appointments to be done in a manner that truly reflects the face of Kenya. Every region should benefit even if they get one slot each,” Okello said. Read:Kanze Dena takes over as PSCU boss, Esipisu nominated ambassador “We appreciate what we got. The concern is to have a government that is inclusive.” Okello said appointments have often perpetuated tribalism with members of certain communities getting preference. “That is why people scramble for power in every general election for selfish gains, instead of focusing on forming an inclusive government,” he said. Wandayi said it is a prerogative of the President to form and reshuffle Cabinet when necessary. “This is a Jubilee Cabinet and the issue of handshake does not arise. There is no formal arrangement between ODM and Jubilee in forming the Cabinet,” he said. K’Oyoo asked Uhuru to ensure fair distribution of public resources and representation. In the appointments announced last week, Kathleen Openda was appointed to chair the Council of the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication. Openda was the director in charge of communication at the NASA secretariat during Raila’s campaigns for President. Joe Ager was appointed chairperson of the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service Board. Ager was the NASA director of operations. Click here for the latest political news