The police are investigating numerous graves believed to be in the home of the 80-year-old granny who was shot dead for kidnapping a woman in Murang’a last week. Criminal Investigations Officer Julius Rutere said investigations have revealed that Peninah Wambui Muturi’s home was a holding ground for abductees as the kidnappers wait for ransom. He said it is suspected the kidnappers buried hostages who died while in their custody at the farm. The detective said police officers are combing through the farm to establish how many graves are in the said farm. "The elderly woman previously lost three of her sons. We want to find out whose graves the others are," Rutere said. He also confirmed that the police are investigating convicts serving life sentences in Naivasha maximum prison who are suspected were part of the kidnapping syndicate. One of the granny’s sons is serving a life sentence in Naivasha prison. Also read: Two Naivasha prison wardens linked to Murang'a kidnapping incident According to sources in the police, the convicts have SIM swapping gadgets that they use to register new phone numbers inside the prison, the same being used to conduct their crimes. Murang’a county commissioner John Elungata directed chiefs to use the Nyumba Kumi system to ensure they rid their areas of criminals. He said that after the demise of the granny, many villagers came out saying they had seen suspicious activities in her home for years but were afraid to report it. The granny, he added, lost her life as she tried to shield two other suspects, one of whom was her niece who charged at police officers with a sword. Read: Gangster granny shot dead as cops rescue kidnap victim He further pointed out that the victim, 36-year-old Margaret Waithera was being guarded by different people at daytime and at night. "The police only managed to get those who were guarding the kidnapped woman during the day," Elungata said. "Investigations have further revealed that the victim was not picked randomly. The kidnappers had pursued her for some time," he said. The administrator assured locals that the security team will break the cycle of abductions. "We want people who feel threatened because of their positions, jobs or businesses to share the information with us so we can protect them," Elungata said. Security chiefs said the good road network in the county and that its nearness to Nairobi makes it easier for the criminals to escape. Click here for the latest political news