The church in Embu has decried stigmatization of orphans who are living with HIV/Aids and some of their surviving parents. Agrican Church of Kenya Embu Diocese said over six thousands orphans and vulnerable children whom it takes care for and most of whom who are HIV/Aids  positive have been facing serious discrimination from the locals. The Diocesan Vicar General the Very Reverend John Cichangi said the church has decided to be caring for the over six thousands orphans and vulnerable children who have been left behind by parents who died from the Aids scourge. He said they have been paying school fees, for the children and other parents who have been left behind and also meeting their medical expenses and other needs for the children and financially empowering their guardians in order to uplift their stand of living. The Very Rev Gichangi said they have partnered with well wishers including None Governmental organizations to sustain the venture for the last ten years noting that the project has been a success The Coordinator of the ACK projects that cares for orphans and vulnerable children Caroline Muthoni said  that stigmatization of the orphans and the vulnerable children by the locals is still a major problem they have been struggling with. “In Embu County we still face serious stigmatization of children and adults living with HIV/Aids forcing parents not to disclose about their positive HIV status to avoid discrimination,” Said Muthoni. They were speaking at Kigari Primary School in Embu North during a free medical camp organized by the church, in conjunction with the County and national governments to commemorate the day of the Orphans and the vulnerable children cerebrated by the church annually. Muthoni said to ward off the discrimination trend the church has been carrying out counseling and sensitization sessions and public meetings to show the locals on the need of respecting and valuing the orphans and their parents despite their status and to encourage the beneficiaries to live longer. Embu County executive Jamleck Muturi who also graced the occasion expressed concern that most of the orphans are taken care for by their grandparents who are poor and elderly and not able financially to look for their welfare. He said the county government is also looking for their well fare and that it’s the one that provided for the doctors during the medical camp and the national government provided the drugs. Embu County Assembly health Committee Chairman Morris Muturi hailed the church for organizing the camp calling on other institutions to emulate the gesture and join the government in implementing one of the government’s main four development agendas of health. He said the assembly will facilitate in the improvement of people’s health by coming up with legislations that will enable the residents get adequate and affordable health services.