Chairperson of defunct Dubai Bank Kenya Hassan Zubeidi has offered to buy locked deposits, a move that could see depositors retrieve their money after three years of waiting. The bank was placed under receivership in August 2015 after it was found in breach of several banking industry regulations that had put at risk the Sh1.4 billion that savers had deposited with it. Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) appointed Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) as a receiver to protect interest of depositors; creditors and public after the bank began breaching its daily cash reserve ratio requirements. In a letter to the Kenya Depositors Insurance Corporation (KDIC) dated July 18 and received last Friday, Zubeidi who is the majority shareholder in the collapsed bank said he is willing to give out some of his properties in exchange for their deposits. “From my engagement with some depositors made on a without prejudice basis, I offered to give them my personal property in exchange of their deposits. It is my view that this will assist in meeting the bank’s liabilities,” said Zubeidi. He accused the bank’s liquidator for taking long to pay depositors despite declining his numerous offers without any cogent reasons. “Am concerned that since taking over of the bank by KDIC, some depositors have not received any payment and even for those who have received, full payment has not been effected,’’ said Zubeidi. He accused the liquidator of using court process to frustrate depositors and cover for its dismal performance in compensating savers. “Those cases involve millions of Shillings which, if recovered, I believe, will go a long way in meeting the bank’s liabilities and pay off depositors.’’ KDIC which took Zubeidi and five businesses in court mid last year over alleged money laundering that could have eaten into depositors money did not respond to our queries by the time of going to press. Early last year, KDIC went to court to put claim on $11 million (Sh1.1 billion) that Zubeidi was demanding from Khartoum-based contractor Active Partners Group. The liquidator argued that Zubeidi entered into the financing agreement with the firm in his capacity as Dubai Bank chairman, hence any funds that were to mature from the deal are payable only to the collapsed lender. Some of questions the Star asked KDIC include the status of payment to Dubai depositors and if it is going to consider Zubeidi’s offer. He said his offer is without prejudice and only seeks to find a solution to issues affecting the bank. “Please note that my actions are not in a way intended to take over the role of KDIC or assume liabilities of the bank. My move is informed by genuine desire to find a lasting solution to issues affecting the bank,’’ the letter reads in part.