Kenya has been mapped as an aflatoxin hotspot, a leading cause of liver cancer, hiding in grains like maize and animal food products. Findings of a study released last month by the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) showed a large amount of milk and grains consumed by Kenyans have aflatoxin levels exceeding internationally accepted limit. Aflatoxin is a tasteless poison produced by Aspergillus flavus fungus caused by a mould in soil that commonly affect cereals. It is mostly passed to humans through animal food products or direct ingestion of affected crops. The study dubbed "Measuring and mitigating risk of mycotoxins in maize and dairy products for poor consumers in Kenya" was done from samples of of livestock feeds collected from farmers in five counties. Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation director general Eliud Kireger however dismissed the report as alarmist, saying that most Kenyans could have died if that was the case. He however acknowledged that aflatoxin is a major threat to food security in the country, asking the government to subsidise bio-control products to tackle aflatoxin. "The government must provide farmers with Aflasafe KE01, just the same way it subsidize fertilizer. The product effectively clear aflatoxin from soils," said Kireger. Public health director, Kepha Ombacho told the Star on phone that the state is conducting several activities to curb food poisoning through aflatoxin. He however, declined to comment further on the report, promising a comprehensive statement later. The ILRI study established that Kenya had aflatoxin levels of between 0.02 parts per billion (ppb) to 9661 ppb with positive samples ranging from 75-100 per cent. It found that that 72 per cent of the milk from dairy farmers, 84 per cent from large and medium-scale farmers and 99 per cent of the pasteurised marketed milk had aflatoxins, most of which exceeded Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) limit of 50 parts per trillion (ppt). The survey further showed that 25-100 per cent of feed in the farms exceeded required 5 ppb while 87-100 per cent of feeds bought from retailers exceeded the limit. 20-100 per cent of feeds from manufacturers were above the required 5 ppb. Milk samples from those counties had 128.7-1675 parts per trillion of aflatoxin with at least 55 per cent of samples exceeding 50 ppt and six per cent above 500 ppt. The study also indicated that consumers of cereal products are at high risk of aflatoxin exposure following prolonged humidity in the country and poor grain storage among smallholder farmers. "Households are consuming unprecedented levels of aflatoxin, a carcinogenic substance, hence putting their lives in danger while hampering efforts to reduce the country's growing cancer burden, ‘’said lead researcher Johana Lindahl. Apart from being the leading cause of liver cancer, acute aflatoxicosis can lead to depression, anorexia, weight loss, disease, gastrointestinal bleeding,pulmonary edema and stunted growth especially in children. “Kenya is a hotspot for aflatoxin contamination, especially in maize, and farmers, traders and the general public need to be educated on the dangers and simple prevention measures,'' said Lindahl. In 2004, Kenya suffered one of the world’s worst effect of aflatoxin when jaundice claimed at least 125 lives in current Makueni and Kitui Counties. Tests done by Centre for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation on foods in these regions tested positive for aflatoxin, with levels hitting 8,000 parts per billion, way above the allowed limit of 10 parts per billion. FAO estimates that 25 per cent of the world’s crop is affected by mycotoxins, the majority of which is aflatoxins. In sub-Saharan African alone, an estimated 26,000 people die annually of liver cancer associated with aflatoxin exposure, according to International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI). Former chief government pathologist and cancer specialist Geoffrey Mutuma asked the government to increase its monitoring mechanisms on aflatoxin since most farmers have had challenges drying cereals due to this year's prolonged humid condition. "Aflatoxin is a major course of liver cancer. This condition is most prevalent in areas around Makindu and Eastern region where farmers harvest maize prematurely. Although North Rift and Western Kenya has low cases of aflatoxin, surveillance must be done,’’said Mutuma.