Alcohol bottles are emptying fast and demand for television sets is bringing in good returns for traders as the World Cup keeps Nairobi alive. Nightclub owners, TV vendors, estate video halls and Pay TV sellers are counting profits as the international soccer bonanza in Russia enters quarter final this weekend. Bavaria Gardens along Karuna Close in Westlands has raised its normal stock by 10 per cent, expecting sales to increase as the tournament progresses towards finals scheduled for July 15. “Our sales have increased by five percent. Our target customers are the middle age group, but these games are attracting even the youth,” said Bavaria Gardens manager Monicah Ndunge. BETTER VIEWS At Club 1824 along Langata Road, the management has mounted massive screens and projectors for maximum exposure to attract more patrons. They have also partnered with East Africa Breweries Limited to facilitate mobile LED screen tracks and encourage revelers to buy their brand during the matches. 1824 manager George Kimani said the business reaps more from early matches compared to those running late into the night. “The screening is attracting 80 per cent crowd. Revelers spend more on matches that begin at 5pm as they drink till late night,” Kimani said. A bar attender at Club Spaxx in Gachie told the Star that the tournament has compensated for the low sales season normally witnessed during the cold months of June and July . ROUND OF EIGHT “We are recording high sales volumes witnessed during festive seasons like Christmas, and expect to reap more as football heavy weights like England, France, Uruguay, Brazil and hosts Russia meet in the quarter finals,’’ she said. Kevin Kimani, a video hall manager in the same estate prays that such tournaments keep recurring. I charge up to Sh60 when popular rival teams clash. The hall, the size of a basic class room, hosts up to 180 viewers per match giving Kimani slightly over Sh10,000 per match. The World Cup, which comes aroud every four years, also provides the peak season for electronic dealers . Many people seek to upgrade their televisions sets in preparation for the month-long entertainment. Television set sales on the online shopping platform Jumia Kenya has increased five fold since January, with more vendors selling their wares on Jumia. According to Jumia Kenya managing director Sam Chappatte, TV sales are now rivaling mobile phone sales because of the World Cup fever. “This has seen us come up with several promotions where customers are getting their preferred TV sets at half the price. We are for instance giving out 42 inch TV sets at the price of 21 inch,” said Chappatte. BAD BUSINESS While most dealers anticipate gains before the end of the games, others blame the poor state of the economy for their low sales. Homesound Electronics along Luthuli Avenue is receiving approximately 25 orders per day compared to 20 orders made before the World Cup. “I expected huge sales but that has not been the case. African teams have been knocked out in the group stages, so I’m afraid Kenyans do not have a driving force to buy TV sets,” said a staff member at Homesound Electronics, Ali. The wholesale dealer, who has been running the business even before the 2014 World Cup, said this year’s sales are less compared to previous World Cup seasons. Retailer, Rahma Electronics said they have not met their projection. “The 32 inch set, selling at Sh20, 000, has become quite popular. We sell 15 sets in day compared to 10 sets before the soccer season started, although we had projection of 20,” Rahma Electonics dealer Benji Musyoka said. Nelson Chavangi of Salute holdings on Accra Road said his sales have not changed.