Deputy President William Ruto is known to be a strategic man who has overcome many storms to hold the number two position in the country. Today, the Star authoritatively reports that he has put together a fresh kitchen Cabinet with an aim of getting sound political counsel. In addition, the informal team also formulates his messaging and find ways of passing his message across without him doing so directly. Chinese hawkers The government has admitted that Chinese nationals have flooded the country’s small-scale business with low priced products, displacing thousands of Kenyan traders. Trade PS Chris Kiptoo while addressing concerns by Nairobi traders during the anti-illicit trade forum hosted by Kenya Revenue Authority on Thursday said the government has received complains of Chinese hawking goods in the country and is addressing the problem. Chris Msando Investigations into the death of IEBC ICT manager Chris Msando have hit a brick wall 12 months after his brutal murder in a what is a strong indictment of the Kenyan police. The Star has established that the police have since asked the Director of Public Prosecution to order a public inquest into the killing. Msando, an IT genius was murdered on July 28, 2017 – nine days before the hotly contested August 8 polls in what threatened to cripple the general elections. By all means There was drama in Limuru constituency on Thursday, when a robbery with violence suspect escaped police arrest and entered into Manguo Swamp, next to Nairobi Nakuru highway. When the APs realised the suspect was swimming to cross the 2km swamp, about 5ft deep, to escape, they both removed their clothes and jumped in the water. Nairobi's unending troubles When Mike Sonko was overwhelmingly elected and consequently took the oath of office on August 21 last year as Nairobi's second governor, many city dwellers breathed a sigh of relief. They banked their hopes on the flamboyant county boss to turn things round and make their stay in the capital city more comfortable, after what many said was a disappointing five-year term by Evans Kidero. Almost a year into Sonko’s tenure, his administration is still grappling with many of the problems inherited from his predecessor. Your weather: NAIROBI: Partly cloudy. Low 12ºC. High 22ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. Showers late at night. Low 22ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSW at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon into the night. Low 18ºC. High 27ºC. Winds SSW and variable. Chance of rain 80%. Click here for the latest political news