They could not be arrested,
investigated or prosecuted whenever they stole or broke the law. Because of this dictatorship, which
came as immunity from prosecution — which governors are now demanding — we had
to fight for democracy. And now that governors are pushing for this immunity,
Kenyans must brace themselves for another period of dictatorship — not against
presidential dictatorship but against 47 gubernatorial dictators. They want
this immunity because they intend to perpetrate graft without being bothered. Tragically, if governors are not
prosecuted while in office, we can expect unprecedented proliferation of
corruption in all counties as in the national government. This is why this
immunity must not be given. In self-defence, governors claim,
being heads of governments, like the president, they too should enjoy this
immunity. They also argue that governors elsewhere enjoy this immunity. But in
America, nobody, including the President, is above the law. In Nigeria,
governors are prosecuted for corruption after they leave office. Granting
immunity, therefore, seems to encourage graft. If Kenyans want to end
corruption, they must oppose this clamour by their governors. When we fought for democracy and
independence, our fight was against dictators – White or Black — their immunity
and non-prosecution for corruption or any other crime. Who would think years
later would demand unfettered freedom to perpetrate graft and other economic
crimes? If we fought against dictatorship,
we must also these governors and their corruption. Africa is already struggling with
presidents who seek immunity from prosecution for crimes committed while in
office, and from that experience, we cannot allow to suffer the same under
county bosses. If governors were committed to the
fight against graft, they would not be seeking immunity while in office.
Instead, they would be rallying one another against anyone seeking freedom to
steal public or state resources. And for these governors to protect
themselves, they will need dictatorship for them to perpetrate graft.  So, when they ask for immunity, they are also
asking for dictatorship. We all know how much harm one-man
dictatorship wrecked Africa. So, if one-man dictatorship was so destructive, how
much damage would 47 dictators in 47 counties do?  They would make devolution the worst thing
that happened in Kenya. This is why any attempts to install immunity and
dictatorship must be resisted. On matters corruption, Kenya is
divided between the ordinary people and the governors. Governors want to be left alone if
they commit corruption, while the people, on the other hand, want perpetrators
of graft and economic crimes punished — now, regardless of who they are. On governors’ immunity, Kenyans must
decide because if have their way, they will exercise the power of Kings. And if
people have their way, corruption of Kings will be punished now not later. There are however people who don’t
believe graft is Kenya’s worst enemy. As Deputy President said, corruption is
not our worst problem, which is bad leadership. But bad leadership must breed
corruption and the two must be fought against simultaneously. To conclude, however, good they are,
governors must never be given immunity against prosecution for corruption.
Should Kenyans make this mistake, they will have worse dictatorship and graft
than they have ever had before.  