DP William Ruto should change tact ahead of 2022, political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi has said on the much awaited race in four years to come. "Although I support Ruto, he needs to change tact. If he goes silent for a month, his currency will grow. Silence annoys even the devil," Ngunyi said. He added via Twitter on Wednesday: "But if he continues talking, he will devalue his currency." Ngunyi's post comes barely a week after he said the Deputy President's vision is unclear but noted that he will become President. More on this:  2022 victory demands a leader, not a politician, Mutahi Ngunyi tells Ruto Members of the public have discussed Ruto's political future as he has been on a massive charm offensive to expand his political base amid disquiet in the inner circles of Jubilee party. This became evident after the March 9 handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom Ruto is expected to succeed in 2022, and ODM leader Raila Odinga.  The handshake has been viewed as designed to place roadblocks on the DP's path to power. Read: Is UhuRuto marriage ending before 2022? Also read: Ruto seeks new allies over 2022 fear of ‘betrayal’ Ngunyi's post attracted mixed feelings from his followers with others claiming his predictions are lame. "Being int the middle ground annoys the heavens and irritates the gods," Antony Nyasimi said. Mike Diamond told Ngunyi: "The day you will go quiet for a week is when he (Ruto) will be for a month." Thuo Kabii told him: "I believe your are working to confuse Ruto with these platitudes. You obviously do not support him because you know he is not going to be president." Kenyan George said "Ruto will never be President of Kenya" while one Franklin Ches asked the analyst to stay quiet for a week so the public can forget  his "crippled and paralysed thinking". Mugambi djorou said: "In fact, he should leave the troop of MPs who follow him everywhere yapping about 202. Llet him go underwater for some time." The anti-Ruto sentiment in Mt Kenya region gained momentum moments after the handshake.  On June 28, the Kikuyu Council of Elders asked Ruto to retire together with Uhuru when his term expires in 2022, adding that they don't owe him. The fear of betrayal has forced the DP to scout for political allies, loyal politicians as well as influential power-brokers in Central Kenya to prop up his 2022 bid. More on this: Kikuyu song fuels Ruto 2022 debate Also read: Is 2022 shaping up to be a one-horse race? HE WILL BE PRESIDENT' 'Despite the negative energy from Ruto's critics, some users dismissed Ngunyi and backed the Rift Valley kingpin's activities saying the latter is on track. Isaac Rugut said noted that Ruto talks only on government development issues bestowed on him, not talked politics, so he there is no reason for him to go silent. Alfred Sagala said: "Ruto will always find a way out. Even if it takes ages in political cold, he will definitely have a come back. His value is still intact." Emmy Kiptoo said: "This is true. Hope he's following." Martin Nyawira told Ngunyi that he can analyse sports but not politics. "The fact that your conclusion is so predictable actually makes it more boring," he added. Zephaniah Obaga said: "I've always agreed with you on your analyses but on this one I beg to differ. Let the DP continue with what he's doing. He's on the right track even if there's a clique that wants him out. They will not succeed." In February, Ruto said he was focused on the 2022 presidential race and his opponents should stop using lies and propaganda to taint Jubilee and the government. Ruto dismissed accusations that Jubilee was acting contrary to the Constitution and said the government will implement pledges made during the election. He told the opposition's national Super Alliance to stop causing hatred and animosity “in the hopes of capitalising on sympathy in 2022”. More on this: Prepare for a knockout in 2022, Ruto tells rivals Details: Respect the rule of law, DP Ruto tells politicians Click here for the latest political news