Rift MPs link Raila to Mau evictions A section of leaders from Rift Valley allied to the Deputy President William Ruto yesterday claimed that Raila Odinga is masterminding the ongoing eviction of settlers in the Mau Forest to undermine him. Staunch Ruto ally and Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen claimed Raila was working with unnamed government officials to scuttle the Deputy President’s 2022 bid. DP Ruto returns to Western for fundraiser, road projects Deputy President William Ruto returns to Western today, only two weeks after he toured the region.
He visited on July 6 on a “purely developmental mission”. He presented buses to Tande Secondary in Malava, Kakamega, and Kimatuni Secondary School in Bumula, Bungoma. Today, he will launch construction of the Navakholo branch of the Kenya Medical Training College in Kakamega county and later preside over a fundraiser for Kamusinde Secondary School in Kimilili subcounty, Bungoma. The changing face of Mombasa and why it has met resistance Until a court order threw a spanner in the works on Thursday last week, Mombasa was sprucing up its drab and faded buildings in the CBD with a bright and uniform sea-like hue to increase the coastal city’s appeal to tourists. The CBD’s last beautification was in 2013, which involved tree planting and pavement renovation at the county's expense. Ticking time bomb: 860 buildings in Nairobi unsafe The Architectural Association of Kenya has dismissed claims it is to blame for houses that have collapsed across the country over the years. The association yesterday said rogue developers and greed are to blame for the tragedies that have claimed lives. Association president Emma Miloyo said a preliminary survey indicates about 860 buildings in the city are unsafe and might turn disastrous. Reprieve for taxpayers as court suspends new levies The High Court yesterday gave taxpayers a temporary reprieve when it suspended implementation of the Finance Bill 2018. In a separate suit filed by the Kenya Bankers Association, the court also suspended the ‘Robin Hood’ tax which would have seen bank transfers exceeding Sh500,000 attract a 0.05 per cent charge. In the first case, activist Okiya Omtatah sought to protect the taxpayer from exposure to levies which have not been approved by Parliament. Justice Wilfrida Okwany temporarily suspended the bill. Editorial General Electric has come under investor pressure over its Sh50 billion investment in the Lamu coal plant. GE is reportedly reconsidering its decision to take up shares in Amu Power which will operate the plant. Its future is now in doubt. Read more in today's Star editorial. Click here for the latest political news  