The Big Four agenda signals a significant shift in Kenya’s development trajectory to focus more on policies and projects that directly impact the lives of ordinary citizens. Previously, more emphasis was on the hardware of development — roads, ports, railways, airports, power plants and factories. The beauty of the Big Four is it resonates with issues that directly affect the common mwananchi such as cost of living, jobs, shelter and healthcare. Whereas the ‘hardware’ needed to drive growth is crucial, of equal importance is the ‘software’ required to drive the Big Four pillars — food security, manufacturing, housing and universal health care. By ‘software’ I refer to policy and legal interventions. Fortunately, the right policies are in place, they only require implementation and maybe some fine-tuning. Similarly, many of the laws needed to translate policies into actionable programmes and projects are also in place. The next step should be plugging gaps in policy and legislation under each of the four pillars. True, policies and laws take time to develop and refine. But given the five-year time frame of the Big Four, there is urgency in policy and legal reform. It is possibly out of this stark reality, and to avert stalling of the Big Four agenda, that the Jubilee administration has been quietly implementing some quick wins even as the policy and legal framework are addressed. Food security: Key to achieving food security is prioritising projects with an immediate positive and sustainable impact on food production. Besides resuscitating large-scale irrigation projects, the government should also support smallholder farmers, who constitute the bulk of the food production ecosystem. In addition, fiscal reforms to spur agricultural productivity and efficiency are critical. The proposed zero-rating of materials for construction of grain storage facilities will encourage investment in the country’s grain storage capacity thus reducing food loss and wastage. Manufacturing: Apart from the high cost of energy, cheap imports have been cited as a major threat to the growth of local industries. The ongoing war on counterfeits and contraband goods should therefore be viewed as a way of encouraging local manufacturers to ramp up production and thus create additional jobs. The government has also promised manufacturers cheaper power. The expected completion of the 76MW Garissa Solar Plant later this year is expected to bring down the cost of power to 5.6 cents per unit. Housing: The proposed reduction of corporate tax to 15 per cent for developers who put up a minimum of 100 housing units per annum appears aimed at encouraging private investment in affordable housing. Construction of one million affordable housing units by 2022 requires a Public-Private Partnership model. The government alone cannot meet this target. The formation of the Kenya Mortgage Refinance Company is now underway. It should be expedited to provide a vehicle for long-term financing of the housing sector. Universal healthcare: Ensuring all Kenyans have access to affordable, quality healthcare must begin with tackling morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable diseases. In June, the Health ministry launched a massive countrywide immunisation programme targeting 400,000 children. The decision to bring in specialist doctors from Cuba, and to send 50 Kenyan medics to Cuba to learn ways of improving our health system, is one of the most significant moves so far toward achieving universal healthcare. The interventions with an immediate impact on the Big Four pillars are already in motion. More, however, needs be done in terms of creating the right policy and legal environment for the private sector to partner with government in driving the agenda. We must also deal decisively with corruption, which undermines the success and viability of the Big Four. The ongoing war on rampant graft should be seen as an effort to make public agencies tasked with delivering the Big Four pillars fully accountable to the taxpayer. This will ensure resources are prudently managed so Kenyans get real value for money. Lawyer and public affairs specialist. kingorichoto@gmail.com       