At least 70 families were left homeless after demolitions followed notices of eviction from a farm in Kiptororo ward, Kuresoi North sub-county. The victims decried short notice to leave a 252-acre farm at Sundu River village that is at the centre of their dispute with one Eustace Mwangiki. The demolitions that followed an order by a Nakuru court were led by Kuresoi OCPD Hesbond Kadenge and Kuresoi North Deputy county commissioner Felix Wafula. Officers stood guard as a group of men tore down grass-thatched and semi-permanent houses from Tuesday morning.  One of the houses that was demolished on a 252-ace farm at Kiptororo ward of Kuresoi North sub-county in Nakuru county, July 24, 2018. /RITA DAMARY Wafula said reports indicated that residents attacked the owner of the farm during the 1992 general election and forced their way into the property. He noted that Mwangiki had been unable to regain access to the farm despite the court order, resulting in another order for security to be provided. “The Constitution grants each of us respect and the right to own property," he said, pointing out that the residents did not follow proper processes while moving to the farm. Some of the people claimed, however, that they were the rightful owners of the property and that they had title deeds. “We have been living here for more than 20 years. We have even buried some of our parents and grandparents here. We were shocked at being thrown out of the farm recklessly," said Peter Kipngeno. He said the eviction may occasion a serious humanitarian crisis as they went to court but were not heard.  Some of the residents of Kiptororo ward of Kuresoi North sub-county in Nakuru county, who lost their houses during demolitions on July 24, 2018. /RITA DAMARY Vivian Ngetich said children were affected most and that some may end up dropping out of school. Others suspected foul play and said they were forced off the property despite paying land rates. “Our food is in the farms. We don’t know if they will grant us the opportunity to harvest," said Mercy Chebet. The villagers mourned a man and a woman, aged 25 and 55 respectively, who died as the demolitions took place. Click here for the latest political news