China's President Xi Jinping
pledged during a visit to Senegal on Saturday to strengthen
economic ties with Africa, a continent already awash with cheap
Chinese loans in exchange for minerals and huge construction
projects. Xi arrived in Senegal on Saturday for a two-day visit to
sign bilateral deals, the first leg of an Africa tour that will
also take him to Rwanda and South Africa, the latter for a
summit of BRICS countries: Brazil, Russia, India, China and
South Africa. China now does more trade with Africa than any other nation
does, and its consistent overtures to the continent contrast
sharply with the United States, whose President Donald Trump has
shown little interest in it. The visit was Xi's first trip to West Africa as president,
but his fourth to Africa, he told a joint press conference with
Senegalese President Macky Sall after their third ever meeting. "Every time I come to Africa, I have seen the dynamism of
the continent and the aspirations of its people for
development," Xi said. "I am very confident in the future of
Sino-African relations." Read: How China warmed its way into the hearts of Africans Earlier, Xi was greeted by a brass band and hundreds of
people waving Chinese and Senegalese flags and wearing T-shirts
emblazoned with the two leaders' faces. LOADING UP ON CHINESE DEBT Africa is in the midst of a boom in infrastructure projects,
managed and cheaply financed by China, part of Xi's "Belt and
Road" initiative to build a transport network connecting China
by land and sea to Southeast Asia, Central Asia, the Middle
East, Europe and Africa. China has pledged $126 billion for the plan, which has been
praised by its supporters as a source of vital financing for the
developing world. In Senegal, Chinese loans have financed a
highway linking the capital Dakar to Touba, its second main
city, and part of an industrial park on the Dakar peninsula. China's ambassador to Senegal Zhang Xun was quoted by the
local press in March as saying China had invested $100 million
in Senegal in 2017. "Senegal takes a positive view of China's role in Africa,"
Sall said at the news conference. "For its contribution to peace
and stability and equally ... for the financing of budgets." But critics say Africa is loading itself up on Chinese debt
that it may struggle to repay, with estimates ranging in the
tens of billions of dollars. That could leave African nations
with no choice but to hand over controlling stakes in strategic
assets to the Chinese state. US officials have warned that a port in the tiny Horn of
Africa nation of Djibouti, a host to major US and French
military bases, could suffer this fate, although Djibouti
rejects the fear. In Guinea, meanwhile, one of the world's poorest nations,
China is lending $20 billion to the government in exchange for
aluminium ore concessions. As well as trade and minerals, China has also seen Africa as
a source of political support. Chinese diplomacy has, as of May
this year, succeeded in getting every African country except
Swaziland to break off diplomatic relations with Taiwan, which
China sees as a renegade province. Click here for the latest political news