The essence of democracy is divergent opinion. So, it would be absurd if Jubilee party would be unable to overcome its current squabbles. The squabbles between the DP's supporters and others in the ruling party are very petty. You only rebel against your leader if he is not doing what he promised. But Uhuru is delivering on the Big Four. Secondly, he is pursuing peace in the country and fighting corruption through various ways. These are the things he promised on his re-election and which are part of the Jubilee manifesto. You would have to be a very foolish MP to rebel against a sitting President who is doing not only what the people want but what the country needs. These wrangles have nothing to do with his failure to perform or deliver services to Kenyans. These are just selfish leaders who are looking for selfish positions. As citizens, we need to call these leaders to order because they are lawmakers. If parliamentarians are going to start complaining that they need to talk to the President about the handshake, for example, who has the power of legislation to implement it? It is them. If they are going to complain about the lifestyle audit, they are also the ones who can pass laws to make the lifestyle audit practical. Thirdly, only the guilty run when no one is chasing them. If they feel they are being pursued in the fight against corruption, then they must be corrupt. Why is that other Kenyans are not bothered when the corrupt are being pursued? We can not let the lords of corruption be the ones that disrupt the country for no good reason. So, Jubilee is not going to die overnight because an MP has alleged so. Murkomen has to be asked, is he willing to step out of Jubilee, start another party and then face the electorate again? None of them is ready to do so. These are a bunch of cowards who want to manipulate the President to do what they want. They are hiding behind the divisions in Jubilee. We are wasting time debating succession politics without discussing the issues. If Manchester United says they want a new coach, the question must be asked: what is the new coach going to do" Its only in Kenya where you talk about succession without a plan. We should be asking, for example, who is going to continue the Big Four? We must end the politics of succession in this country. On what basis do you say you will support a particular candidate in 2022 when he has not given us his manifesto or spelt out his plan. Click here for
the latest political news