Police yesterday raided the Karen home of businessman Francis Mburu who is at the centre of the Ruaraka land case. EACC investigators conducted the early morning raid and searched the home for documents. The agency’s spokesman Yassin Amarow said investigators seized papers and computers. “We are still analysing the documents and I can’t tell you what we have found as at now,‘ Yassin said. Top government officials and the National Land Commission ignored a court order to pay the initial Sh1.5 billion compensation for the controversial land. Read:Ruaraka land broker turns state witness Last month, the National Assembly’s Land Committee, which investigated the matter, concluded the process of acquiring the land was fraudulent and bordered on collusion by top Ministry of Education, Treasury and NLC officials to swindle taxpayers. Details have emerged of how, despite a High Court order barring the State from making any payments, the officials still went ahead to carry out the controversial Sh3.2 billion land transaction. On December 13, 2016, Justice Okong’o issued orders barring the State from making payments to Afrison Export Import Limited and Huelands Limited owned by Francis Mburu, Mark Mburu and Justin Mburu for acquisition of seven acres. Read:Lands boss Swazuri ‘to be charged’ over Ruaraka land scandal Activist Okiya Omtatah had filed a petition on November 28, 2016, objecting to what he termed as “unjust enrichment by Afrison Import Export and Huelands Limited from numerous fraudulent payments made by the state for multiple acquisitions of LR No. 7879/4.” After hearing all the parties to the suit, the court barred any transactions on the entire 96-acre piece of land. “That with a view to preserve the subject matter of the suit, the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th respondents are prohibited from making further payments to the 1st and 2nd respondents directly or through their agent pending the hearing of the application,” Okong’o said. The 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th respondents are the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, National Land Commission, CS for Lands and the Attorney General, respectively.