A family in Kaloleni, Kilifi, is demanding justice for their 17-year-old son who was allegedly shot dead by officers from Mariakani police station on Friday. Katana Kazungu, a class-seven pupil at Ndatani Primary School, is said to have been shot dead by police who were trailing a truck. The family said their son was not a criminal as alleged by police. The boy's father, Kazungu Fondo, told reporters his son had returned from a funeral when he was called by friends to help push a truck that was stuck in the mud following heavy downpour. The truck was transporting stones from a nearby quarry. “Police officers suddenly arrived and started shooting aimlessly. We were later informed that they had been trailing the truck after it was reported missing,” Fondo said. “The officers said those around the truck were armed criminals who wanted to hijack the vehicle. That is not the truth.” Area police boss Kennedy Osando said the officers were on a search mission for the truck after the owner reported it was missing. He said police found a gang of youths armed with crude weapons surrounding the lorry. “They were actually hostile to the officers who were forced to shoot in the air to disperse the crowd,” Osando said. He said police discovered the boy's body after the crowd had left. He had been shot in the chest. The body was taken to Coast General Provincial Hospital mortuary. Osando defended the police. He said the killing was being investigated. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana said he will ensure the boys gets justice. The lawmaker promised to hire a private pathologist to conduct a postmortem. "Legal action will be taken against the officers involved in the murder," Katana said. He spoke when he condoled the family at their home on Friday. He said officers who killed the boy are known and should be arrested and charged. “We condemn the killing and we're not going to rest until action is taken against those responsible. I have already spoken to my lawyer to take legal action against the officers," he said. Katana urged civil society organisation to join the quest for justice for the family.