The race to clinch the 2018 SportPesa Premier League seems to have a winner even before the final lap and clubs harboring the dream to toast at least a silverware this season will turn to the SportPesa Shield Cup which enters the round of 16 this weekend. Three-time champions Sofapaka play Western Stima at Narok Stadium tomorrow seeking to sail to the final eight. Sofapaka have unsuccessfully tried to catch up with Gor Mahia in the league and will hope to put behind their last weekend’s 2-0 loss to Sony Sugar behind when they come up against powermen side who are gearing seeking a return to top flight football. Today, last year’s beaten finalists Kariobangi Sharks face off with National Super League outfit Modern Coast Rangers at Mbaraki Stadium Mombasa. Sharks have regained feet after a nearly disastrous start to the season which was worsened by the exit of their deadly striker Masoud Juma who found a new home at Cape Town FC in South Africa. However, head coach William Muluya entrusted Erick Kapaito and Ebrima Sanneh to fill the void left and his patience with the duo, who were joined by former Sony Sugar forward George Abege in June has seen the club gather steam and regain the fear factor they had a season ago. Another NSL side, Kenya Police will be up against Leysa, largely dominated by retired international players, at Narok Stadium. This will be preceded by a showdown between Friend Zone and Riverplate. 2016 champions Tusker will open proceedings at Narok against Bungoma Superstars before paving way for the Sofapaka match. A week after mauling Vihiga United 2-0 in the SportPesa Premier League, Ulinzi Stars return to Mumias Sports seeking a repeat of fortunes in the SportPesa Shield. Ahead of the tricky game Ulinzi’s head coach Danstan Nyaudo believes Vihiga identified their mistakes and promised to ring a few changes. “It will be a tricky game for us because after winning this one, they will want to stop us in the next, and honestly they are a good side—very technical and fast. I will definitely have to change a few things. Every game comes with its strategy and having played them here and won, they will definitely have some strategy for us as well. We therefore have to change our tactics.”