Centre Leo Seje and winger Tony Onyango have been ruled out of the Kenya Simbas ahead of the World Cup qualifiers against Tunisia and Namibia next month. Onyango is nursing a shoulder injury which will keep him out until mid September while Seje still has a toe injury sustained in the match against Morocco last month. Skipper Wilson K’Opondo, who was facing race against fitness, will also miss the two matches and he is also a doubt for the repecharge matches in November if Kenya finishes second in the qualifiers, due to multiple injuries. Team manager Wangila Simiyu yesterday said he expects fullback Vincent Mose and hooker Phillip Ikambili to be fit for the clash after recovering from injury. Mose suffered a head injury in the 38-22 win over Uganda early this month, forcing him out in the closing minutes of the match while Ikambili suffered a concussion in the match against Morocco in Casablanca last month. The team was expected to start a high performance training camp in Nanyuki today until Saturday. Kenya lie second on 12 points—three behind Namibia and are yet to score a bonus point victory in their wins this season. The Simbas have beaten Morocco 28-24, Zimbabwe 46-35 and Uganda 38-22. Simiyu said he expects the side to play better in their final two games. “We are always seeking improvement. I think the boys are in good position and we want to intensify our preparations and correct the weaknesses which we saw especially in defence and at the same time help our work-rate especially in the second half,” added Simiyu. A win against Tunisia will confirm Kenya’s place in the repecharge, where they meet higher ranked opponents including Canada, Germany and Hong Kong in November in France. Elsewhere, Nzoia Sugar Webuye are top seeds for the second division competition at the second round of the Sepetuka Sevens planned for this weekend at Eldoret Sports Club. Webuye are in Pool ‘A’ alongside Citam Kisumu, Nakuru KITI and Homeboyz II. Egerton Wasps are in Pool B alongside Stingers, TUK and Sigalagala while Pool ‘C’ features Comras, MKU Thika, Molo and KPA Eldoret.