Metropol Corporation, the leading credit reference bureau in Kenya has raised red flag on high interest rates charged by mobile lending platforms, saying they have contributed to a high default rate. In an exclusive interview with the Star Newspaper, Metropol Corporation managing director Sam Omukoko lamented that some mobile lending applications are charging borrowers interests of up to 360 per cent, way above standard limit of 14 per cent. He asked National Treasury and Central Bank of Kenya to act with speed to regulate those platforms to protect unsuspecting borrowers who risk losing properties to auctioneers and dent their credit scores. ‘’Regulators in the banking sector must do something to control lender exploitation by some of mobile lending applications. High interest rates charged have pushed non-performing loans in Kenya in margins of 12 per cent,’’ said Omukoko. In May, National Treasury published a financial market conduct Bill that seeks to regulate banks and digital lenders to treat retail customers fairly. “We have a lot of predatory lending out here, which we want to regulate," said Geoffrey Mwau, director general of budget, fiscal and economic affairs at the Treasury. In March, a joint survey by the non-state financial inclusion agency – FSD-Kenya, CBK, Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and Consultative Group to Assist the Poor, showed that Kenyans have become prisoners of mobile loan apps. The study decried consumer exploitation by those platforms, calling for establishment of an oversight authority to scrutinise the lucrative interest rates and penalties used by the digital loan providers some of which don’t fall under any regulatory regime. The credit survey released by CBK in March pile of bad bank loans rose Sh47 billion to Sh259 billion in the year to December 2017, representing a whopping 451 per cent rise. This resulted in the ratio of non-performing loans to gross loans rising to 10.56 per cent, a significant annual increase from the 9.1 per cent at the end of December 2016. Furthermore, Omukoko asked lenders to use borrowers’ credit scores as a reward and engagement metric and not as a tool to deny credit to those with low scores. ‘’The idea of credit information sharing mechanism was to assess and score borrowers according to their credit history and help those with clean records to negotiate for better loan terms,’’ said Omukoko. He regretted that banks are however using the information for merely deciding on whether or not to lend to a borrower.