Kenya at the World Cup As the curtain falls on Sunday when France take on Croatia at this year's World Cup Final, Kenya was well represented in Russia just not on the pitch. The Star has the details on dozens of Members of Parliament, as well as Ministry of Sports officials, who are in Russia for a taxpayer-funded "benchmarking tour". It will be interesting to see how the tour will benefit Kenya which last September lost the rights to host the 2018 African Nation Championship (Chan) because the stadiums were not ready. Solai Dam cover up? Even as the country waits for the trial of nine people, including the owner of the Solai Dam that killed 47 people, Parliament is raising the red flag on a possible cover-up. A Senate Committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr which is probing the Solai Dam tragedy is now accusing the government of covering for owners of the dam which killed 47 people. This is as a United Nations human rights group, on Wednesday, raised concern over the inappropriate compensation of Solai Dam victims. Anita Ramasastry, chairperson of the United Nations expert group on business and human rights criticised irregular pay of victims of the May 9 tragedy. Rockfalls anguish in Kerio Valley Rose Maiyo fled her Kapsegut home on the Kerio escarpment in Elgeyo Marakwet county after heavy rains caused earth cracks near her home. This came amid reports by the meteorological department that the downpour will continue until July. In anguish, she tried to calm her 10-month-old baby at the rocky, hanging valley, but the baby cried uncontrollably. We caught up with her in the morning, quivering after another night in the cold and here is the story of the anguish locals are going through, with many now displaced from their homes Nairobi's unending shit storm A few days after we learnt that no one can say where 66% of human waste in Nairobi goes to, Governor Mike Sonko ordered that toilets be used free of charge and a firm contracted to manage them on behalf of the county. Since then, there has been an unending debate on whether this order is practical even as the service providers continue to stay put defying the Governors. It appears the debate is not ending soon as Starehe MP Charles Njagua and some MCAs on Wednesday demanded that Nairobi youths be given the job to manage public toilets instead of a private firm. Investigations by the Star in April revealed that politicians are at the centre of the ongoing standoff as efforts to control the lucrative business that continue to hurt city residents. Prisons beauty queen begs for forgiveness From an unknown, 21-year-old, Ruth Kamande became a household name after winning a beauty contest while in remand at the Langata Women's Prison in 2016. On February 27 this year, while on trial for murdering her boyfriend, Ruth confessed to stabbing him 22 times using a kitchen knife. The beauty pageant winner told Justice Jessie Lessit that she stabbed Farid Mohammed on September 20, 2015 in self-defence after discovering an HIV card in the house. On what would have been her sentencing day on Wednesday, the 24-year-old begged the court to forgive her. Click here for the latest political news