Former US President Barrack Obama will be accompanied by 400 dignitaries to support his sister Auma to set up Sauti Kuu Foundation in Kogelo. Speaking to reporters at a Nairobi hotel on Thursday, the Sauti Kuu Foundation Director said they are among the one thousand guests expected in Nyanza. "Obama has always supported me and I will be happy again when he joins his sister on this big day to set up the new Sports, Resource and Vocational Training Centre on Monday,” Auma said. Details; Obama to open Alego Sauti Kuu sports centre Auma said the centre was not institutionalised but noted that it was a space with access to the internet. She said the library is going to give children access to the languages that they will need in order to pass exams. “We need our children to read because they go to school and learn a language that is not their first, second or third language and they are expected to pass exams and this is in the rural area," she said. Auma said they will incorporate basketball, volleyball, netball and a football pitch. “We are not trying to get a Victor Wanyama or Oliech from there, but that is a bonus if it happens,” Auma said adding that sports was an important aspect to keep children healthy and gain confidence. The centre will also possess a Vocational centre which will teach eight different courses such as mercenary, electrics, plumbing, welding and carpentry. “It is very hard to get a good plumber, electrician, welder because people are doing these jobs reluctantly. In Europe, you wait for a plumber for six months just to come and look before anything else." Auma said her foundation was trying to change the mentality of people so that they could realize they have opportunities. “Poverty is no excuse, opportunities are limited and you use what you have locally to get what you need. That is the essence of what Sauti Kuu is trying to do.” “We don't need to be helped we can help ourselves. That is what Sauti Kuu is trying to teach.” Auma said it was important to look at one's resources and not act like a victim. The visit by Obama will be live streamed at the Jomo Kenyatta sports ground and Acacia hotel. Also read; Kisumu and Siaya hotels to reap big during Obama visit Click here for the latest political news