The state has issued a stern warning against male teachers who sexually prey on female students.
Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu said firm action will be taken against any male teacher caught preying on underage girls and ruining their future.
She spoke at Moi Girls High School Kamusinga in Kimilili constituency on Saturday while giving motivational talk to all female KCSE candidates in Kimilili subcounty.
Mwilu said the law on sexual offences is tough and warned male teachers who involve themselves in sexual escapades with teenage girls. “You find a 90-year-old man brought to court for defiling an eight-year-old girl. Surely, where is the world headed to. Let these men know the law will have no mercy on them,” she said.
“Don’t look for wives in school. Stop confusing minors and let them concentrate on their studies.”
Mwilu urged girls to stop engaging in early sex and remain focussed.
“Set your goals higher than your capacity. If you have to succeed don’t set goals that are low. Life isn’t a rehearsal. Dream big to succeed in life,” she said.
Mwilu told principals to tell male teachers that their duty is to advise students, not take advantage of them.
She urged parents to watch over their children when they go home for holidays, especially during the month of circumcision in the Western counties.
Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa praised schools in his constituency for showcasing their prowess in education and games in Bungoma county.
Moi Girls High school Kamusinga and St Luke’s Kimilili Boys are the national handball champions and will be representing the country in East Africa games in Rwanda.
Barasa encouraged the community to educate girls and stop seeing them as sexual objects.
“I will hire the best lawyer to prosecute men interfering with girls’ education. We can’t allow our girls’ education to be ruined by men who can’t approach grown up women,” he said.
The legislator pledged that by the year 2020, he would have converted all day girls’ schools into boarding for the girls to concentrate on their studies. Barasa said he will look for a “responsible male” to talk to boys who will sit their KCSE exam this year in his constituency.
Last week, Kisii director of Education William Sugut warned teachers, especially the men, against sexually abusing students.
He  singled out an incident where two teachers were found in a “compromising situation with primary schoolgirls” in a lodging in Nyamache subcounty. Sugut said the police are looking for them.
“It is saddening that teachers, who are supposed to be role models, are engaging in sex with young girls. We have since suspended them from service,”
Sugut said.