The Ruaraka land saga continues to evolve each day with fresh revelations that former Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi and PS Belio Kipsang disregarded the ministry's internal report to authorize Sh1.5 billion payments for the controversial Ruaraka land, it has been revealed. Fresh documents tabled in Parliament on Monday reveal that a team appointed by the Ministry of Education to investigate the land’s ownership had concluded that the parcel occupied by Ruaraka High School and Drive-In-Primary was public. Chumo's questionable vetting Questions arose on Monday as to why a parliamentary committee decided to go ahead with the vetting of Ben Chumo, the former Kenya Power CEO, a week after he was charged with abuse of office. Chumo is being vetted for the position of chairman of the critical Salaries and Remuneration Commission following a nomination by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He also was charged with conspiracy to commit economic crimes and failure to comply with procurement laws in the purchase of faulty transformers worth Sh450 million during his tenure as Kenya Power boss. Can varsities recover? On Monday, the Star took you inside the financially struggling public universities. Despite them generating most of the elite brains in the society, for close to a decade, they have been struggling and sliding deep into debt. Tabling a report before Parliament last year, auditor general Edward Ouko said the liabilities of 11 public universities exceeded their assets. These include the University of Nairobi, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, Pwani University and the University of Eldoret. Today, the Star looks at how broke public universities can change fortunes. Mobile loan traps Metropol Corporation, the leading credit reference bureau in Kenya has raised the red flag on high-interest rates charged by mobile lending platforms, saying they have contributed to a high default rate. In an exclusive interview with the Star Newspaper, Metropol Corporation managing director Sam Omukoko lamented that some mobile lending applications are charging borrowers interests of up to 360 per cent, way above the standard limit of 14 per cent. Kibera flattening Thousands of Kibera residents watched helplessly on Monday as heavy machinery flattened their homes to make way for a new road. The operation went smoothly and security was tight. But residents were homeless, distraught and said the notice given on July 3 to vacate by July 16 was too short. Makina Self-Help and Adventure Pride Centre primary schools and Egesa Children’s Home were pulled down. Teachers told pupils to go back home, but most had no homes to go back to. EDITORIAL: Star Editors today reckon that Ben Chumo's vetting by Parliament sends the wrong signal on graft war. The presumption of innocence notwithstanding, his vetting flies in the face of the proclaimed zero-tolerance to corruption and the precedent set so far. Your Weather NAIROBI: Mostly cloudy. High 20ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. High 26ºC. Winds SSW at 15 to 30 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Morning clouds followed by afternoon sun. High 28ºC. Winds South at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news 