The
question that arises is whether the “suspects’’ or culprits are criminally
culpable. Juvenile justice is the area of criminal law that is applicable to
persons not old enough to be held responsible for criminal acts. In most
jurisdictions, including Kenya, the age of criminal culpability is years and
the prime purpose of a juvenile justice system is rehabilitation as opposed to punishment.
The decision to send a child to a rehabilitation centre is at the discretion of
the judge. Before a child is sent to a rehabilitation school, it is mandatory
that a parent obtains a committal order. Looking
at Kenya’s history, in March 2001, Kenyans woke up to tragic news when at least
67 students of Kyanguli High School perished in a dormitory fire, one of the
country’s biggest fire death toll to date. What was more astounding was the
cause of fire. Police investigations established that a group of students led
by one Felix Mambo “purposely” started the fire before escaping from the school
precincts. Mambo,
although being a teenager, was charged with 67 accounts of murder alongside his
co-accused and schoolmate Davies Onyango. Just like the current ongoing unrest
and torching of schools, the Kyanguli High School case was also premeditated. Among
some of the reasons cited for such conduct included strict administration,
congestion in dormitories and bad food. But are these grounds enough to warrant
criminal acts by students? Arson, malicious damage of property and murder are
considered criminal acts as by law. In
the recent high school unrests and crime, the Director of Criminal Investigations
has warned students against engaging any criminal acts and said there is a
possibility of prosecution. He has added that the crimes will automatically reflect
on their police clearance certificate. It is
noteworthy that indisputable age of criminal responsibility in Kenya is eight
years. Section 14 of the Penal Code deals
with criminal responsibility in relation with immature age and clearly states a
person under the age of eight years is not criminally responsible for any act
or omission. The rioting delinquents should thus be made aware of the consequences
of their actions and at no point should they commit criminal acts with flawed
reasoning that they shall go scot free. Education
CS Amina Mohamed has reiterated that culprits will be prosecuted, and there
shall be dire consequences such as inclusion of their bad conduct in the school
leaving certificates and a policy of not recommending such characters for
scholarships plus denial of admission to any Kenyan public university. Basic
Education PS Belio Kipsang has publically warned such culprits will be treated
no different from any other criminals. Is this
position too harsh? To
say the least, morally, torching schools, destroying property and putting the
lives of others in danger is wrong. Legally, any person below the age of 18 should
not be tried as an adult but that does exempt
one from criminal responsibility. Article
53 of the Constitution prohibits the detainment of children except as a
measure of last resort and where detained, to be held for the shortest
appropriate period of time, separate from adults and in conditions that take
account of the child’s sex and age. Errant
and rioting students should be made aware that they shall be held criminally
responsible and can and should go through juvenile justice as proscribed. Unlawful
acts by minors cannot be condoned just because they have been committed by
minors as encouraging delinquency can be equated to breeding of societal criminals.
There is a direct link between student delinquency and crime, and we can
correctly infer that undermining the acts of children offenders is directly catalyzing
adult crime. Reputable
criminal litigation advocate Cliff Ombeta emphasizes that there is a subscribed
law that ought be followed and even in meting out punishment, the law
stipulates that a child’s best interest are of paramount important. He goes
further to recapitulate that the prime objective of Juvenile Justice is deterrence
and rehabilitation, not essentially punishment. In conclusion, Juvenile Justice
does exist and in no way should minors committing offences fallaciously think
they can get away with crime. The deterrence measures being flouted by CS Amina
or DCI George Konoti should  be sanctioned
and actually implemented. Nyang’ai is an advocate and principal partner at Juliet Nyangai & Company Advocates   