The goverment has constituted a team to investigate mistreatment allegations of Kenyan workers at the SGR. Labour CS Ukurr Yattani on Wednesday said the officers have seven days to carry out the investigation and submit the report within the set period. "Should the investigation reveal violations of any section of the Labour Laws, appropriate corrective action, including prosecution will be taken against those found culpable." Yattani said in a statement to newsrooms. Some of the allegations raised by the workers include; pay disparities
on the basis of race, unfair treatment, long working hours, threats,
harassment, and denial of the right of association,
among others. "These allegations point to violation of Labour Laws and offend Article 41 of the Constitution of Kenya." the CS said. Earlier in the day goverment spokesperson Eric Kirathe blamed local workers for not being able to use the right channel to raise air their grievances with their employer. "It would be unfortunate if after the agreed period, we continue relying on expatriates. It is important that they shift their focus from short term diversions to the challenge at hand." Kirathe said. He said all organisations face challenges but that matters get complicated when they turn racial. "[We] will investigate the claims and take action where necessary." He added. Read : Your work ethic is to blame, Kiraithe tells SGR workers on mistreatment claims Meanwhile, the Senate has summoned the management of Kenya Railways to shed more light into the alleged mistreatment of Kenyan employees at the SGR. Labour and transport CSs Ukur Yattanir and James Macharia and Attorney General Paul Kihara will also appear before the Labour and Social Welfare Committee chaired by Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja led Labor and Social Welfare Committee. See this : Senate summons Kenya Railways, labour CS over alleged mistreatment of SGR employees Read: Atwoli demands deployment of SGR workers after expose' on 'mistreatment' Click here for the latest political news