Senators want the hiring of Ombudsman and gender commission chairpersons halted until a bid to merge the commissions is completed. Senate's Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights Committee chairman Samson Cherargei yesterday said the chairpersons will be forced to vacate their positions should the merger be adopted. The team is proposing the merger of the Commission on Administrative of Justice (Ombudsman), the National Gender and Equality Commission (NGEC) and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR). The move will allow Kenyans to easily access services from one office. It would also save on cost, the lawmakers said. The want the new commission named Kenya National Human Rights and Equality Commission. It will have offices in the counties. “We requested the suspension of hiring the chairs of Ombudsman and gender commission. We have discussed with the Attorney General and the National Treasury,” Cherargei said. Former Meru woman representative Florence Kajuju was last week vetted to become the chairperson of the Ombudsman. If approved, Kajuju will succeed Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo, who quit a year before the end his term to join politics. MPs are also expected to vet the NGEC chair and commissioner nominees. Former Marakwet East MP Linah Kilimo and Kenyatta University don Grace Ngare are among top contenders for NGEC top job. The term of former chairperson Winfred Lichuma expired last year. “It is not mandatory to stop the hiring but we requested to either delay or halt the process," Cherargei said. He said an agreement will be reached to restructure the commissions and some positions. In May, the committee heard from top officials of the three commissions on the proposed merger. The merger seeks to have one chairperson but different secretariats under one roof. Both NGEC and the Ombudsman opposed the merger. The Cherargei team was to invite Treasury CS Henry Rotich, Chief Justice David Maraga, Attorney General Paul Kihara and the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji to hear the government's position. Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo, a committee member, yesterday told Star that the preparation of the 2018-19 budget read in June and public hearings on draft bills delayed their sessions with the officials. “We are meeting this week to agree on when we should invite them," Dullo said.    