The Kikuyu have a proverb that says “Ciathanaga ikÄ©gÅ©a, itiathanaga ikÄ©Å©mbÅ©ka” which translates to “birds agree when flying down, but do not agree when flying up.” The proverb was used as a warning to people getting into enterprise together on the dangers that may come after making profits. Morally the proverb means that men easily agree when deciding on an enterprise, but will probably quarrel as soon as they have obtained what they wanted. Is this what is happening with some of the noise we are hearing from Mt Kenya? In 2013 I was a board member and part of the team that founded The National Alliance party, and was present at the Registrar of Political Parties offices when TNA merged with URP to form Jubilee. Before the merger, both party leaders had come together in countrywide prayer rallies named ‘Tuko Pamoja’ in a bid to unite communities that were most affected in tribal and election clashes. President Uhuru Kenya and Deputy President William Ruto came together to unite the nation, put political differences aside, shun tribalism and end politics of hate. This message resonated with millions of Kenyans who, in their expansive numbers, elected them into office. When Jubilee was formed, the leadership had a plan on how Uhuru would be President for 10 years and after that, hand over to Ruto to lead for 10 years. That plan remains in place and must be supported by all who want to see this country move to greater heights. Jubilee had a plan from its formation and instead of trying to upset it, we should all focus on development as we wait to campaign for Ruto in 2022. By achieving the Jubilee dream for the first 10 years, it will be next to impossible for Ruto to lose the 2022 election. We have seen some Mt Kenya leaders make statements that appear to undermine this Jubilee plan. Some are even telling Ruto that he should first tell them what’s in it for Mt Kenya before thinking that he has the region’s votes in the bag. One thing that these leaders appear to forget is that Jubilee supporters are not naïve and have been part of the plan all along. They also forget that Jubilee draws a lot of support from outside Mt Kenya, which should not be taken for granted. For instance, do the Mt Kenya leaders making demands on Ruto realise that he can consolidate the rest of the country and leave the region orphaned after Uhuru? Why would Mt Kenya leaders want Ruto to isolate a region that has stayed behind him and President Kenyatta? As he has repeatedly said, Ruto is driving the President’s agenda, which is the Jubilee agenda, to develop the country. He knows that this gives him a huge stepping stone to the presidency as the man who helped Uhuru achieve development, which benefits each and every Kenyan. Therefore, Mt Kenya leaders should focus on how to spur development in the region, build roads in every corner, make water accessible to all, get jobs for the youth, enhance agricultural production and create an environment conducive for business to thrive. In fact, many Jubilee supporters are not interested in the divisive politics that seems to be threatening to tear the Jubilee Mt Kenya base into two. This is not the time to participate in the politics of succession and assess the merits and demerits of past agreements. Mwananchi does not care about 2022, s/he care about putting food on the table, having money in their pockets and giving their family a better life then they themselves had. The time has come for Mt Kenya leaders to put aside their 2022 political aspirations and do everything necessary to transform the lives of the region’s residents. It’s time to get to work and help the President and Deputy President to transform the nation. Political and communications
consultant. @MachelWaikenda