Last Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a freeze to new projects until the ongoing ones are completed. Today, the Star takes you through hundreds of government-funded projects across the country that cost taxpayers billions of shillings which rotting away due to non-completion. The projects which, year in, year out, are referred to as white elephants by Auditor General Edward Ouko in his report, triggered Uhuru to issue last week's directive that they must be completed before embarking on new ones. Development Economist Anzetse is of the expert view that there is a need to audit all stalled projects and seal procurement loopholes. Big Four The government has announced that it has identified 7,500 acres of public land that will be used to kick-start the construction of affordable house under the Big Four agenda. According to Housing PS Charles Mwaura the government will have to do due diligence on the status of each parcel located in 59 cities across the country. Housing is part of the Big Four legacy plan by President Uhuru Kenyatta and will need between Sh2.6 trillion and 2.7 trillion to achieve over the next four years. Uhuru succession After an unsuccessful run in 2013 and supporting ODM leader Raila Odinga in 2007 and 2017, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has announced that he will be on the presidential ballot in 2022. Speaking On Sunday at Kiria-ini Catholic church in Mathioya, Murang’a County, the NASA co-principal insisted that he will succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Other than Mudavadi, others who have publicly declared to be interested in succeeding Uhuru are Deputy President William Ruto and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. Broke varsities A few years back, they are all in a race to expand opening new campuses and acquiring new assets. But this is not the case today. Public universities are broke and in a deep financial crisis that could soon grind them to a halt, following dwindling revenues. The Star has established that most public institutions of higher learning are hardly surviving and unable to meet financial obligations, including submitting statutory deductions to various agencies. They are also unable to pay lecturers and other university staff, throwing the future of some of the universities into disarray. Mixed reactions Nairobi is yet to solve the mystery of multiple fires that have rocked Gikomba market every so often leading to loss of lives and property. Traders at the expansive Gikomba market are now divided over the government’s plan to construct a modern block to end frequent fires and congestion. While others welcome the initiative as a timely move that will end the problems they have been encountering over the years, others have expressed fear. EDITORIAL: The Star Editors reckon that quick and decisive action must be taken by the mobile service providers, the CA, the Central Bank of Kenya, the Kenya Bankers Association and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to tackle the problem before the savvy conmen kill the faith invested in mobile money. Your Weather: NAIROBI: Cloudy. High 20ºC. Winds SE at 10 to 15 km/h. Humidity - 71% MOMBASA: Morning Showers. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 15 to 30 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Partly Cloudy. High 27ºC. Winds South at 10 to 15 km/h. Humidity - 68% Click here for the latest political news