Six suspects including the owner of Patel Farm Perry Manusukh Kanasagara have been remanded at Naivasha Medium Security Prison until Monday when the court will review their bond terms. The six who been charged with 48 counts of manslaughter following the Solai dam incident two months ago and have denied the charges. The multi-millionaire businessman will be joined in the remand prison by his farm manager Vinoj Jaya Kumar and director of water in Nakuru County Johnson Kamau Njuguna. Read: Patel Dam owner charged with causing Solai deaths This came as three more government officers were arraigned before Naivasha principal magistrate Joseph Karanja and charged with 48 counts of manslaughter. The three - Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were and Tomkin Odhiambo - just like their co-accused denied the charges and were also remanded in the same prison until Monday. The trio were also accused that on diverse dates between 2007 and May 9, 2018, they failed to prepare an environmental impact assessment report of the dam. Two more suspects - Williec Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot - presented themselves before the court and the magistrate directed that they be taken to record their statements with the police. During the session, defence lawyers took issue with the prosecution that is being led by State Counsel Catherine Mwaniki for misleading the court and opposing bail terms. Lawyer Francis Mburu, who was appearing for the three government officers, termed far-fetched allegations that the suspects were a threat to the state witnesses. He told the court one of the listed witnesses was the boss of the accused and wondered how the three could issue threats against him. Mburu expressed concern over an “emerging trend” where police and the office of the DPP were arresting suspects on Fridays to ‘punish’ them over the weekend. “The three suspects who are senior government officers presented them to the police voluntarily and its worrying that the prosecution wants them denied bond,” he said. While making his ruling, the magistrate said the first six suspects should be held at the prison until Monday when he will make a ruling on their bail terms. “All other suspects in this case who have failed to adhere to police summons should also be arrested,” he said. According to an affidavit sworn by police constable Geoffrey Mwau, a total of 47 people died on the material day while the 48th victim, a minor, died while undergoing treatment. Read: Solai dam owner, two others remanded at Naivasha police station Click here for
the latest political news