A section of Rift Valley MPs opposed to the ongoing Mau Forest Eviction have accused Environment CS Keriako Tobiko for engineering the inhumane evictions. Led By Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot and his Bomet Counterpart Andrew Langat, the legislators accused Tobiko of hiding behind forest conservation to play tribal politics. "We want to tell Tobiko to declare his interests in the Mau issue. We are aware that there are two operations going on in the Mau forest. Phase two of this operation is being led by political brokers and cartels," Senator Cheruyoit said. Tobiko has visited the Mau forest on numerous occasions since his appointment as the Environment CS and launched afforestation initiatives. Cheruyoit also said Narok County Commissioner George Natembea, Senator Olekina Ladema and Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta should be charged with hate speech and incitement against those affected. The evictions are said to affect close to 40,000 people who had encroached on the forest. So far the second phase has seen about 12 acres reclaimed and 8,000 people evicted. But senator Cheruyoit maintained the evictions are politically driven. This eviction is a political operation aimed at reducing the number of a certain community in Narok," he said. His sentiments were echoed by Senator Langat who said they will not sit folding their hands while people treated unfairly. Langat said Kalenjins are the best environmental conservationists and for the years they have been in the forest they have been 'Mau friendly'. "Uhuru is our friend and we know because of Deputy President William Ruto. We voted for Uhuru through Ruto and therefore we demand that Ruto be given his due respect on this Mau issue," Langat said. Related;Defiant Murkomen returns to Mau, tells evictees to stay put More on this:MP Kenta claims Ruto behind Mau evictions, says Murkomen lying to squatters Their sentiments were supported by former Kakamega senator Bony Khalwale who questioned the manner in which the evictions are conducted. Khalwale said it is unfortunate that only poor Kenyans are being evicted from the forest while those untouchables spared. "I have watched the TV and seen those being evicted with chickens in their hands other with one or two goats. I want to tell this government even those powerful individuals who own chunks of land in Mau must be evicted," Khalwale said. Meanwhile, Masaai community leadership has thrown their weight behind the evictions saying the government must restore the forest which is one of the country's largest water tower. Read:Narok residents demonstrate against Murkomen, support Mau evictions Also See:Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim