Jubilee Party is displeased with NTV presenter Mark Masai's Sunday night interview with Deputy President William Ruto. Masai asked Ruto questions on corruption, his net worth and his plans for 2022, when he is expected to vie for President. More on this: [Interview excerpts]: I have never engaged in corruption, says Ruto Via Twitter after the interview, the party wrote: "It is unfortunate that Mark Masai and the rest of the estate is pushing for Jubilee to die. It is shocking, surprising and somewhat sobering. The concept of Jubilee is [that it is] a party that outlives individuals and is more of ideas and principles." Another tweet stated: "As we stand, JP is the biggest party in the republic and our candidate for 2022 is William Ruto (no other member has declared interest) despite NTV's best efforts to humiliate him on live TV."I In a quick reply, Opposition leader Raila Odinga's party said Jubilee leaders should not blow their own trumpets. A tweet on ODM's page stated: "We have seen a party tweet that they are the biggest in Kenya. How do you call yourself the biggest party when you don't even have structures and branch offices leave alone the national office? You pay your staff like casuals. It is a mockery to the name 'political party'." The messages took some by surprise, especially considering President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila's handshake on March 9, after a troublesome and stretched elections season. They agreed to put their differences aside and lead the nation in healing and reconciliation, the larger goal being countrywide development. Read: Uhuru and Raila 'honeymoon' on Twitter but will unity deal last? Two weeks ago, the Kikuyu Council of Elders told Ruto to retire with Uhuru when his term ends in 2022, opening fault lines between their allies. The anti-Ruto sentiment in Mt Kenya region gained momentum moments after Uhuru shook hands and signed the unity pact with Raila. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, who has openly come out to oppose Ruto, claims the DP's allies are blackmailing Kikuyus living in the Rift Valley over possible violence. Read: No longer at ease: Rifts widen in Jubilee camp as Ruto eyes polls Also read: Ruto’s haters are in Kenyatta’s office, says Senator Murkomen Click here for the latest political news