A parliamentary committee wants Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui and other senior government officials prosecuted over the Solai dam tragedy that left 48 people dead. A report by the Senate ad-hoc committee, that was tabled in the National Assembly on Thursday, recommended that individuals including the dam owners be prosecuted for abuse of office and obstruction of justice to the victims. The MPs want Patel farm owner Perry Mansukh, Nakuru county commissioner Joshua Nkanatha, his deputy Justus Kavita and Solai chief Charles Kiragu investigated for negligence. The committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr further wants the DPP and DCI to probe WRA executive director Mohamed Shurie for conspiracy to mislead the public, authorities and the committee. “For the enforcement of the Solai restoration order to succeed, all national government administration officials stationed at Solai should be suspended,” reads part of the report. The report notes that during his appearance before the committee, Mansukh declined to provide information and made false statements about the construction, licensing and operation of Milmet dam. “Mansukh did not deny liability for the collapse of Milmet dam that resulted in loss of lives and damage to property, the environment and livelihoods,” the report states. “The committee observes that the Solai dam tragedy of May 9 was a result of deliberate and criminal acts on the part of the owner and neglect of duty, abdication of responsibility conspiracy and concealment by officers of the National Environment Management Authority, National Construction Authority and Water Resources Authority.” Read: MPs reject ‘weak’ Nema advice in Solai dam probe When he appeared before the committee on Wednesday, Mansukh told Senators that he was uncomfortable facing them as he is also a victim. His lawyer Evans Monari noted: "The charges my client is facing carry a life sentence. That cannot be joked around with. We feel the courts should be allowed to deal with this issue. We are objecting to giving any evidence to this committee." He added: "The refrain that 48 people died is gaining credence in this country and you are forgetting that there were people who were injured, who lost property and who are still alive. These are the people we are facing and dealing with in Solai. "We don't take ourselves seriously as a country if the deaths of 48 people in Solai can make us come here and answer questions against our Constitution." Monari said this after Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja noted the seriousness of the deaths. More on this: I'm also a victim, Solai dam owner tells Senate Click here for the latest political news