Football fans who will go to the KICC on Sunday to watch the France-Croatia final stand chances of winning prizes courtesy of Honda Kenya. In a statement on Saturday, KICC Chief Executive Officer Nana Gecaga said prizes including a a brand new Honda Brio Amaze and five Honda motorcycles will be up for grabs. “Those who will watch the final will get free raffle tickets and stand chances to win. Entrance is free,” Gecaga said People not associated with the event sponsors will be given a raffle ticket on arrival and entered into a draw. Winners will be announced at the end of the match. Since the World Cup began on June 14, fans have watched the games at the KICC in Nairobi for free. They will watch the final that will take place at Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow, Russia, at the centre’s world-cup viewing village. Gecaga thanked Honda for its continued support. “It is a remarkable achievement to have KICC flourish as a meetings, incentive travel, conferences and exhibition (MICE) facility but it is even more important to note that this would not have been possible without the support of Kenyans and other stakeholders who have been behind our growth over the years,” the chief executive said. She noted the facility’s capacity and commitment to deliver an unmatched world class experience for locals and foreigners. KICC launched the world cup viewing village at the start of the world cup courtesy of the Kutana KICC World Cup Festival, an initiative withr partners including Honda Kenya, SportPesa, Coca-Cola Nairobi bottlers, MultiChoice, Homeboyz Entertainment, Street Bistro and Telkom Kenya. England's bid to reach a first World Cup final since 1966 came to an end in the last four as they lost in extra time to Croatia in Moscow. Croatia grew into the game in the second half and equalised through Ivan Perisic, and the Inter Milan winger hit the post with a low drive shortly after. England will now play Belgium in Saturday's third/fourth place play-off in St Petersburg. More on this: Croatia beat England to reach World Cup final Related: Kenyans rally behind Croatia for good game, support after Garissa terrorism Click here for the latest political news