Recce Company Commandant Josephat Mbuthia Kirimi has been promoted as the new commandant Presidential Escort Unit in the latest national Police reshuffles. Kirimi takes over from Edward Mbugua who was sworn in as the Deputy Inspector General of Police. The reshuffle has also seen Mohamed Omar Bashane who was acting as the Commandant presidential Escort redeployed as Deputy Commandant General Service Unit. Assistant Inspector General Douglas Kirocho Kanja has been promoted to commandant General Service Unit. Francis Munyambu Musembi who has been serving as Regional Commander in Central has been redeployed to Rift Valley in the same capacity. See:Nairobi police boss Japheth Koome moved in major reshuffle Solomon Mutua who has been the Rift Valley regional commander has been moved to Central region. James Mwaniki Thathi has been promoted to a full staffing officer where he has been in an acting capacity. John Njuguna Kamau has been redeployed from Kisumu where he has been serving as county commander to the Kenya Police College in Kiganjo. Job Kiprotich Boronjo takes over as the new Kisumu County Commander after redeployment from their Kiganjo police college. Other include John Wachira who has been moved from Nakuru County Headquarters to Administration Police Commissioner Headquarters Central region. Samuel Ndanyi has been moved from their AP Training college in Embakasi to serve as the AP County Commander in Kilifi county. While Elisha Ngetich has been redeployed from Kilifi AP County headquarters to County Commander AP, Turkana County, Elias Nyaga has been moved from the Turkana AP County Headquarters to serve as the new County Commander AP, Bomet County. IG Joseph Boinet said the redeployment takes place immediately. The reshuffle comes after president Uhuru Kenyatta presided over the swearing in of new Military commanders at the State House. Walter Raria took the oath of the office of Kenya Army commander while Francis Ogalla took over from Major General Samuel Thuita as Air Force commander. Lieutenant General Robert Kibochi replaced Lt. Gen. Joseph Kasaon as Vice Chief of Kenya Defense Forces. Read:Uhuru welcomes Fatuma Ahmed, Kenya's first female Major General In February Boinett had prepared a list of senior officers he wanted to be transferred to the public service but the head of state declined. Uhuru later recalled former DCI boss Ndegwa Muhoro for redeployment. Muhoro was replaced by George Maingi in an acting capacity but later George Kinoti was appointed, vetted and sworn in. Former Deputy IGs Joel Kitili and Samuel Arachi (AP) were also recalled and replaced by Edward Mbugua and Noor Gabow respectively. Uhuru said Muhoro, Kitili and Arachi will be reassigned duties by the Public Service Commission Read:DCI boss Muhoro fired as Uhuru reshuffles police bosses Also Read:Uhuru blocks removal of senior police chiefs