Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot wants Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju to apologise for claiming Mau evictions were done peacefully. In a statement on Monday, he termed the remarks as "dumbfounding and unfortunate". The legislator said Tuju was sanitising an operation that was inhumane. "CS Raphael Tuju owes people who were living in the forest an apology. The evictions were inhumane, this is a gross violation of human rights," the senator said. "I urge him to take the earliest opportunity to apologise. His scornful
dismissal of the issues raised by leaders is nauseating to say the
least." He was responding to the SG who said the leaders opposed to the ongoing evictions are expressing their personal opinion. Speaking at Jubilee headquarters on Sunday, Tuju urged aggrieved individuals to channel their complaints to the relevant authorities. He said the eviction is
coordinated by a multi-sectoral agency that includes Kenya Forest
Services, Kenya Water Tower Authority and the Office of the President. Tuju said: "The government has to do what it has to do for the benefit of this
country." More on this: Mau eviction won’t be called off – Tuju The Cabinet Secretary said the Murkomen team is expressing personal views and
should not be confused as Jubilee Party’s position. But Cheruiyot in a rejoinder said that "gone are the days when Cabinet Secretaries were aloof to pressing issues affecting Kenyans." He said Tuju was not speaking on behalf of the Jubilee administration maintaining that such a decision cannot be made by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The senator said Tuju's remarks brought shame to the President and the party. Read: Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim Read also: MP Kenta claims Ruto behind Mau evictions, says Murkomen lying to squatters Cheruiyot said the CS told off leaders who raised issue over the manner in which the Mau evictions were being done. "Tuju said he wonders how leaders from the ruling party can oppose a state directive. The people of Mau are asking which directive? Is it to evict Kenyans living on land where they have genuine title deeds?" he asked. The legislator said if Tuju cared to understand the complex Mau issue, he would have known residents were leading the efforts to flash out people who had invaded the forest. "There is no debate about removing invaders.Every sane Kenyan supports that," he said. Cheruiyot said he was against the invasion of private land by rogue government officers on the pretext of conservation. "The continued silence by the county commissioner is worrying. More than 4,000 pupils' education has been disrupted," he said. Cheruiyot said officers involved in the operation committed heinous acts against women and children. "Police brutality should not be condoned.The culprits must be brought to book," he said. "Tuju is still new in the party. His remarks can be excused, but they cannot go unchallenged," the senator said. Cheruiyot said: "Tuju should get out of his air conditioned office and visit Mau to get the feeling on the ground." Click here for the latest political stories 