Deputy President William Ruto has asked the Gender ministry to work with Parliament in amending the regulation that requires a minimum of 100 women to form a group to be funded. He gave an ultimatum of two months, a move that is likely to incentivise the formation of more women groups in the country. Unlike the youth who only require 25 members, the regulations demand that 100 women form a group to be recognised. Ruto made the call at Kasarani Stadium during the presentation of cheques worth Sh112.5 million to women and youth groups in Nairobi county. The Deputy President said that by congregating in groups, women and youths stand to benefit from synergies. At the same time,  Ruto asked Parliament to review its decision to slash funds meant for the National Youth Service. The Deputy President said it was unfortunate that the NYS budget had been slashed by Parliament at a time when the program was being expanded to benefit more youth. He said NYS was being transformed to curb mismanagement and embezzlement. Ruto said: “"I want to persuade Members of Parliament we should not criminalise and demonise NYS because of the challenges it has had." "NYS can be reformed, NYS will be reformed and we will make it compliant so that there is no more corruption." Gender Cabinet Secretary Prof Margaret Kobia, CAS Rachel Shebesh and Sports CS Rashid Echesa were present. Others were MPs Johnstone Sakaja (Nairobi), Mercy Gakuya (Kasarani), Esther Passaris (Nairobi), George Theuri (Embakasi West), Waihenya Ndirangu (Roysambu), Charles Kanyi (Starehe), Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), and Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). Kobia, who called for the resuscitation of the NYS, echoed the Deputy President’s sentiments saying the program has benefited many youth across the country. She said: "Let us not punish youth for the mistakes of some of us." Ruto said the government’s vision was anchored on the belief that women should be involved on equal footing with their male counterparts in leadership and decision-making. It is on this thinking, he said, that the Jubilee administration has prioritised Women Empowerment and Gender Equality and put enormous resources in it. "This is in recognition of the critical and important role Kenyan women play in our development," the DP said. Shebesh called for the increase of Woman Representatives funds from the current Sh7 million to Sh20 million. Passaris said there was need to synchronise affirmative funds to one so that it can benefit more Kenyans. The Nairobi Woman Rep said some requirements set for women to access Women Fund have become a stumbling block for many women. "We need to find a way to ensure we do not leave anyone behind," she said. CS Kobia appealed to youth and women to take advantage of the various affirmative funds saying such opportunities will not come knocking at their doors. Since inception of the Affirmative Action Funds, Sh31 billion has been transferred to small and medium-sized enterprises, providing support to about 15 million people across the country. Uwezo Fund had disbursed more than Sh5.8 billion to an estimated 960,000 beneficiaries while the Women Enterprise Fund had benefited over one million women with Sh13 billion. The Fund, she added, now boasts of an average loan repayment rate of 94 per cent. Click here for the latest political news 