The Supreme Court has directed that two appeals challenging the nullification of Machakos governor Alfred Mutua’s election be heard together. The petitions were filed by Mutua and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) in a bid to overturn the Court of Appeal’s decision. Parties in the suit appeared before Supreme Court deputy registrar Daniel ole Keiwua on Friday and agreed to have the applications consolidated. Keiwua directed Mutua, the IEBC and former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti to appear in court on Monday for directions and to pick a hearing date. Wavinya lost to Mutua in last year’s election. She petitioned the outcome. Court of Appeal judges William Ouko, Mohamed Warsame and Gatembu Kairu said the election results that declared Mutua the winner failed the constitutional test of verifiability. The judges said the declaration  had no legal basis. The court said the returning officer announced the results using a wrong form. But Mutua said the judges erred by misapplying the provisions of the Constitution in relation to evidence produced. The governor said the court failed to balance competing constitutional rights, including the right to vote and be elected and the right to have a verifiable election where the results are accurately collated. The IEBC said the Court of Appeal made a finding that was not supported by evidence. The electoral agency said the results declared by the county returning officer were accurate. The commission said there was no evidence of tampering and it was wrong for the judges to nullify Mutua’s election. The agency wants the Supreme Court to declare that it conducted the Machakos governor election in a free, fair and a credible manner in accordance with the Constitution, the Elections Act and other relevant laws. On June 12, Machakos MCAs passed a vote declaring the governor’s seat vacant following the Court of Appeal’s ruling that was delivered on June 8. Forty-three out of 59 MCas said Mutua ceased to be governor the moment the ruling was made and directedthe  IEBC to conduct a fresh election. The motion sponsored by Ekalakala MCA Stephen Mwanthi was discussed on grounds that Mutua had not served the county assembly with his notice of appeal. Mutua later got a reprieve after the Supreme Court suspended the elections until his appeal is determined. “This conservatory order restrains the first respondent - the IEBC - from announcing or conducting gubernatorial election in Machakos,” the court said on June 27.