Parliament has rejected the nomination of Ben Chumo as the Salaries and Renumeration Commission chairman in a move that threatens to cost him another job. Last evening, the National Assembly endorsed the Finance Committee which found that Chumo does not satisfy the constitutional threshold on leadership and integrity having been charged. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale said Chumo is “paying for the crimes he committed while at Kenya Power”. “The committee should go further and order Egerton to suspend Chumo. We either fight corruption properly or we ignore it at all,” he said. Chumo, the former Kenya Power managing director, was nominated for the top job on June 27, hardly 16 days before graft detectives dragged him to court over alleged acquisition of faulty transformers. The National Assembly Committee on Finance said Chumo does not satisfy the constitutional threshold on leadership and integrity having been charged for economic crimes. Read:MPs reject Ben Chumo's nomination as SRC chair over integrity “The committee also noted that the nominee did not meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act by the fact that he was on 16th July, 2018 charged in the Anti-Corruption Court,” the committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo concluded. “The Committee is of the view that the nominee is unsuitable to be appointed as the chairperson of the SRC.” Chumo, 56, was born in Deputy President William Ruto’s Uasin Gishu backyard. But in what may be a double tragedy for the former Kenya Power boss, the Committee has suggested that he should also relinquish his job as the chairperson of the Egerton University Council. “Dr Ben Chumo had not stepped aside as the chair of council, Egerton University despite the fact that he had an ongoing case,” the committee observed. In 2013, former Naivasha MP John Mututho was vetted and cleared to head Nacada while he was facing a Sh41 million case. But the Chumo vetting was greeted with public uproar with some claiming it made a mockery of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s anti-graft effort. The committee, however, said Chumo has a wealth of experience in management and could work perfectly as SRC boss. “Based on his performance during the vetting exercise, the committee found the nominee to have a wealth of on management and human resource matters,” the 18-member committee concluded. Chumo holds a PhD in human resource management from JKUAT, an MBA and Bachelor of Arts in social sciences from the University of Nairobi. Also Read:MPs approve Florence Kajuju's nomination for Ombudsman chair Click here for the latest political news 