After former US President Barack Obama's visit, some political leaders from
Siaya are still angry at Obama's half-sister Auma. One MP
yesterday said the region's leaders will seek audience with Obama
himself and will not go through his sister. “ Auma thinks she
is like Jesus Christ whom you have to go through before you get to
the Father! We won’t involve her in anything. When Obama was here,
she blocked some of us from talking to him. We know our way out and
will seek audience with him without her,” a Siaya MP told a friend. ***** Two Sports ministry officials were overheard in a Nairobi Hotel boasting that they
recently snubbed a sports event at Mathare Youth Sports Association
headquarters on Kangundo Road. The event organised by the Kenya
Table Tennis Association was receiving 50 tables from the Japanese government. The programme aims at empowering 5,000 girls below the ages of 12. However, no official from the Sports ministry showed up to
receive the tables from the senior Japanese embassy officials, led by the First Secretary. The sports officials went on to boast of
how they could not have benefited in any way from the event and
therefore snubbed it. “An event for small girls can’t put money
in your pocket. Plus this was an embassy thing - we could not have
eaten anything from it". ***** A first-term MP has
made a hasty retreat from a group associated with Deputy President
William Ruto, a move that has elicited debate among MPs in the the DP's inner
circle. The lawmaker was a leading critic
of the DP and President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of the
2017 election. The lawmaker no longer accompanies the DP to weekend functions as
was the case immediately after the March handshake between Uhuru and opposition chief Raila Odinga. Corridors'
mole on Sunday overheard some MPs allied to the DP blaming the
retreat to pressure from some powerful quarters to isolate Ruto ahead
of 2022. ***** One of the county
bosses whose election is the subject of an appeal is unhappy with his party. He learnt of a plot to have him step aside
from defending his position – in case he loses the appeal - to allow
the party to nominate another strong candidate to face-off with the
opponent whose popularity is growing by the day. The party is keen on
retaining the seat but is afraid  the embattled county boss is not strong
enough to match his opponent hence the decision to have him step
aside. But the Governor, Corridors has learnt, does not want to hear
any such proposal and has vowed to disappoint the party for the first
time if and when the table the proposal to him. Click here for
the latest political news 