 Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua has asked Parliament to give the multi-agency team probing contraband sugar more time before its sheds light on their investigations. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was on Friday scheduled to accompany Government Chemist Ali Gakweli to explain the conflicting tests results by the agency, Ministry of Health and the Kenya Bureau of Standards over alleged mercury found in some sugar samples. They were supposed to appear before the National Assembly's joint committee on Trade and Agriculture which is co-chaired by Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Adan Haji (Mandera South). In a letter to National Assembly Clerk Michael Sialai, Kinyua asked for more time to enable the team prepare adequately. “Due to the short notice given to appear before the joint parliamentary committee, the multi-agency team has not been able to prepare and table a comprehensive report before the committee," Kinyua said. But Kega said the team had failed to honour the committee's invitation and that they would retreat to author a report which will be presented to the House next Wednesday. “We don't have the luxury of time. We will write a report with or without the appearance of the various agencies. This is the 29th meeting we are holding and we have to conclude this matter,” Kega said. “Kenyans are waiting for answers and it's time to draft the final report as guided by the Speaker who had given us until Wednesday next week to table the report.” Read:No hugs and kisses in sugar probe, proper report in 10 days, Muturi tells MPs On Wednesday, the lawmakers led by Machakos woman representative Joyce Kamene claimed that the Interior ministry was interfering with the probe and was responsible for the non-appearance of the Government Chemist before the committee. “This morning, we were waiting for the Government Chemist to come before us. They were in Parliament precincts but were later directed to go to the Interior CS’s office. There is something that is not adding up here. Kenyans want to know the truth," Kamene said. She said the team avoided the committee when they were in Mombasa. But on Friday, Dagorreti South MP Simba Arati told the committee that the Government Chemist was not spotted at Parliament buildings as earlier alleged. “I want to confirm that the purported witnesses were not within the precincts of Parliament. According to records of Parliament, the witnesses were not here. The said MP also confirmed that she heard that the witnesses were around. We cannot rely on rumours,” Arati said. Whereas the Government Chemist, which is under the Interior ministry, had reportedly detected mercury in the seized sugar, the Kenya Bureau of Standards ruled out the presence of the poisonous substance in the 1.3 million tonnes netted by the multi-agency team. The chemist's results showed mercury was detected in sugar seized from Bungoma and Moi Airbase in Nairobi. KEBS results only confirmed the presence of copper and lead in contraband sugar sampled from Eastleigh and Ruiru. Read:Divisions rock MPs probe into unfit sugar Click here for the latest political news