In a progressive act of political goodwill in open contracting, the President recently issued an executive order on procurement of public goods, works and services by public entities. Open contracting entails keeping, using, and disclosing open, timely, and accessible information regarding all procurement activities. It is critical in ensuring citizens are informed and engaged in how public bodies procure goods and services as they serve them. It is important to look at the existing policies that will ensure the success of the executive order. One is the Access to Information Act 2016, which came into force last September. Section 5( 1 )(c) obligates public entities “upon signing any contract, to publish on its website or through other suitable media” specific particulars. The law provides for access to information by citizens through two avenues. The first is through proactive disclosure of information by public and private entities. Proactive disclosure is the practice of making information available even before it is requested for. Information about contracts falls under this category. The second is by lodging an information request stating specific sets of information needed. Section 8 of the Act details the process of application for access. The Act tasks the Commission on Administrative Justice (CAJ), also known as the Office of the Ombudsman, with handling appeals from requesters who feel aggrieved with responses to requests for information. As of May 8, the CAJ had received 58 applications for review. Fifty-three of those were applications for review of decisions made by public entities, while the other five were for reviewing decisions made by private entities. In respect to the first form of access, the CAJ has been tasked with ensuring oversight and enforcement of the Act. A key facet of this obligation is preparing a proactive disclosure framework, which includes a publication scheme of what is to be disclosed regarding all contracting activities. The CAJ should therefore adopt and launch a proactive disclosure framework to be used by all public institutions. The executive order requires all government institutions to disclose all details of tenders and awards from July 1. In addition to the proactive disclosure framework, there is also urgent need for adoption of regulations for the operationalisation of the Access to Information Act. Section 12( 3 ) of the Act mandates the ICT Cabinet Secretary to make regulations that prescribe among other things the different publication schemes of public entities and fees applicable for access to information. The President has jump-started the inclusion of open contracting as a key foundation of Kenya’s third cycle in Open Government Partnership. The OGP is a voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative aiming at securing practical commitments from government actors at all levels to promote open governance by tackling corruption and empowering citizens through use of new technologies. The order dictates that procurement is to be done through the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) from January 1, 2019, but critical concerns of data protection and security ought to be addressed. The Communications Authority of Kenya, the ICT ministry and the National Treasury should disclose, before the end of the year, measures being taken to ensure that corruption propagated through infiltration of IFMIS does not reoccur. Open contracting will be essential in ensuring the Big Four success. The pillars — affordable housing, food security, affordable healthcare and manufacturing — are all procurement intensive. The Public Procurement Oversight Authority and the Registrar of Companies should support initiatives aimed at making information on beneficial ownership of companies easily accessible. Beneficial ownership information refers to details about entities that might be benefiting from ownership of a property, without necessarily being on record as the owners. The operationalisation of the Access to Information Act 2016 through the adoption of a proactive disclosure framework and access to information regulations will be crucial in the success of open contracting. President Kenyatta has done his part, it’s now the turn of the institutions tasked with coming up with the framework and regulations to do theirs.  Programme assistant, Article 19 Eastern Africa