Devolution has
today become more of a burden to Kenyans than the savior it had been presented
as at inception. In many parts of
the country, there are sorry stories by ordinary folks regarding the regrets
they have about their respective county governments. What was hailed as the
panacea to the country’s endemic inequalities and inequities has brought more disappointments
than joy. Kenyans ushered
in devolution with a lot of excitement and expectations. Of all its goodness,
the new Constitution was celebrated by the ordinary citizens more on account of
devolution. They saw in it an opportunity to address the many development ills
that had bedeviled the country since Independence. By law, the national
government had an obligation to transfer funds for development at the local
levels. The funds were to be managed by elected leaders, unlike the previous
provincial administration. Instead, the new governance structure has increased
taxation levels and depths to finance the ballooning national budget. The national
budget has risen from Sh1 trillion in 2012 to current over Sh3 trillion. The
county governments have also expanded their revenue sources expedition to crazy
levels of (some) levying charges for exhuming bodies required for autopsy. Correspondingly,
the debt burden has increased tenfold with the Treasury CS Henry Rotich,
admitting the government has reached its borrowing limits. The citizens bear
the burden of these actions by the county and national governments with
bitterness. Clearly, the dream of effective public service delivery, as
espoused by the architects of devolution led by Prof Odhiambo Mbai, has been
betrayed. Devolution in its current form and practice by the majority of
governors has become a nightmare to Kenyans. A combination of
factors has conspired to circumvent and derail this novel idea. Chief among
them is the recruitment of the county leadership headed by the governor. It is
provided for that the governor will be elected at a general election through
universal suffrage by the voters of the respective county. Kenya, being a
multi-party democracy, relies on political parties to nominate candidates for
election. The parties are expected thus to conduct primaries in as open system
as possible. However, many of these parties, if not all, lack both the commitment
and the institutional capacity to undertake such an important exercise. Their
nomination processes are weak, easy to manipulate and subject to wanton abuse. The parties more
often than not succumb to the unbridled appetite of vested interests. The
candidates at the nomination employ ethnic and clan balkanization for political
mobilisation. The exercise thus become riddled with savage chauvinism,
violence, bribery and open mob intimidation. The results are such that the
winning candidates are least grounded in the philosophy of devolution. Worse, they
are ill prepared for the implementation of the devolution agenda. Many of them
outrightly lack the necessary academic qualifications. At the same time, they
also have inadequacy in managerial and leadership skills. It is no wonder then that
upon assuming their respective offices, the pioneer governors appeared lost.
They spent much of their time whining about matters inconsequential to the
welfare of the people. They quarreled with the county commissioners on size and
position of office, type and size of motorcade and how many flags to be flown.
They went on an employment frenzy and recurrent expenditure rampage. Inordinate
resources were spent on rewarding cronies through handouts and unwarranted
appointments. Where the county assemblies tried to rein in on the wayward
tendencies, they were subdued eventually. MCAs were assaulted, bribed or
subjected to public humiliation to make them toe the line. Soon enough, the
MCAs gave up on their oversight role and sought seats at the table of graft. Once they were
firmly under the control of the county executive, corruption became the modus
operandi. In any case, the MCAs were more rudimentary in skills orientation
than their respective governors. They operated more like elevated councillors than
the roles envisaged in the Constitution. All the characteristics and operations
of corruption had been devolved effectively to the counties from the national
government in Nairobi. Graft at the
county levels also benefitted from the deployment of inept civil servants from
the national government. Many were seconded by the Transition Authority, while others
were directly recruited by the county public service boards. These staff
brought in their previous experiences in manipulating employment and
procurement processes. The experiences became useful to the new county
executives, including the governors. Instead of offering public and social
services closer and cheaper to the people, they made life unbearable. As the
government systems were manipulated to benefit individual pockets, the public
sector service all but collapsed. The devolved systems, including the vital healthcare,
degenerated. Hospitals lacked medical supplies and doctors shifted to private
practice, even as they continued in the public payroll. Kenyans watched
in horror as patients died of curable and preventable diseases in public hospitals.
Some of the bodies decomposed on hospital beds as nurses joined the doctors in a
year-long strike. Meanwhile, some governors were paying hundreds of millions
upfront for road construction to fictitious offshore companies. Ghost stadia
and water boreholes were launched by governors gullible to the whims of corrupt
civil servants. The corruption
web sucked in the county local business operatives. Together, the cartels formed
an unholy trinity of the County Executive, the County Assembly and the County
Business Tenderpreneurs. Friday evenings would be the occasion to determine
which business enterprise would get which tender; and who in the assembly would
protect the executive member awarding the tender.  The citizen no longer mattered. As far as the
county new kids on the block were concerned, everyone who mattered was on
board. By the end of the first term in August last year, corruption was so
rampant in the counties that it was a way of life. It became
difficult to discuss the merits of devolution to the people in many counties
during the campaigns. The volatile and poisonous electoral environment at the
time helped to cover up for the incumbent governors. The citizens could not
engage meaningfully in the governorship debates as candidates took full
advantage of the sharp political divides. Many sitting governors therefore
escaped closer scrutiny and interrogation. They thus won the re-election and
hoped to be protected by the political hostilities engulfing the country then. Then without
warning, Raila Odinga and Uhuru Kenyatta surprised friend and foe by reaching
an agreement to reconcile the nation. The Building Bridges project had the
fight against corruption as a key plank. Previously those in power had used the
largesse of their offices to compromise the justice system. However, the President
appears to have learnt from earlier attempts and conveniently sidestepped the
known anti-corruption institutions. Within the law, the President established a
multi-agency unit and adopted multi-pronged approach. In the net were big and
small fish, all treated equally before the courts, which pledged their
unflinching support. Kenyans are happy that the net has reached the counties
and already managed some catch. The declaration that the arrest of Busia Governor
Sospeter Ojaamong’ is the first among a list of many other county chiefs is
reassuring. The protestation of the Council of Governors through chairman
Josephat Nanok is a sign of panic. It is an
indication the governors had hitherto enjoyed impunity and are shocked at the
turn of events. Chickens are normally worried when one is slaughtered because
they know not when the guests will leave. The chickens seem to have come home
roost a little earlier than expected for the county executive and assemblies. But
for the joy of ordinary citizens and good of the nation, the gravy train of
devolution seem to be coming to an abrupt halt!  Kanyadudi is a political and public policy analyst