Transparency International has questioned President Uhuru Kenyatta and Parliament’s commitment to end corruption as outlined in Chapter 6 of the Constitution. This follows the nomination and subsequent vetting of former KPLC CEO Ben Chumo as the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairperson amid graft charges. Chumo and 18 other current managers at Kenya Power, including suspended MD Ken Tarus, are facing charges for the loss of Sh4.5 billion through the procurement of faulty transformers. TI executive director Samuel Kimeu on Tuesday said Parliament should not have vetted the nominee with the full knowledge of the criminal proceedings against him. He in a statement that the vetting undermines the Constitution and casts doubt on the state’s commitment to promote, uphold and enforce ethics and integrity in public affairs. "Irrespective of the outcome of the nomination, vetting and appointment process, a failure to situate public appointments within the ethics and integrity parameters of our Constitutional framework undermines our national journey of integrity," Kimeu said. "It perpetuates, rather than seek to eradicate corruption in our public affairs and dampens current efforts at cleaning the public sector of pervasive graft." Chumo and his co-accused in the Kenya Power case are out on bail. He appeared before the Finance and Trade Committee on Monday for vetting and defended himself against the allegations. Read: I’m a man of integrity, Chumo tells SRC vetting team amid graft charges He said payments for the transformers occurred after he had left the company on January 4, 2017. "There was no single case that arose during my stay at KPLC and I look back with a lot of pride to that particular service," Chumo said. "I never had any incident that undermined my integrity and public trust. Over the 32 years [I was at KPLC] I made investments across the country...I have some assets in Nairobi, I collect rent," Chumo told the committee chaired by Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo. Read: How the Star broke the Kenya Power scandals Chumo was nominated by the president on June 27 for the SRC chairmanship. Two weeks later on July 14, he was arrested alongside his co-accused after being implicated in the scandal. They were charged with conspiracy to commit an economic crime, abuse of office, aiding the commission of a felony, willful failure to comply with the law, conspiracy to defeat justice and fraudulent acquisition of public property and procurement/supply of faulty transformers. On July 17, Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti released them on bail and directed that they each deposit a cash bail of Sh1 million, or a bond of Sh.2 million and a surety of similar amount, or a personal bond of Sh3 million. Kimeu said Chumo’s nomination raises serious questions on the due diligence carried out on individuals before being nominated for public office. He said the president failed to ensure that only persons without serious questions of integrity are nominated. The president, he said, should have rescinded the nomination in light of the accusations that surfaced against his nominee. "Considering the means of assessment available to the President, it is surprising that omissions of this significance would still happen," Kimeu said. He equally questioned Chumo’s adherence to ethics and rule of law for failing to withdraw from the appointment process until his name is cleared through the court process. Chapter Six of the Constitution and the Leadership and Integrity Act states that a public officer charged with an economic crime is not fit to hold public office. "A candidate with unresolved questions of integrity cannot bring the honor and dignity required of state office under our constitution" the TI boss said. He added that by going ahead to vet Chumo, Parliament simply wasted public resources on an exercise whose outcome is moot. Also read: Will MPs approve Chumo for SRC job despite court case? Click here for the latest political news