Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa yesterday announced a crackdown of foreigners working without proper documents. This was occasioned by the lapse of a 60-day period allowed by the government for foreigners to have the papers in order. Kihalangwa said close to 8,000 foreigners lack proper working documents. The government gave them until last Sunday to register with Immigration and get work permits. Kihalangwa yesterday said by the end of the deadline, only 26,552 of the 34,450 foreigners whose records are held by the government had complied. “Those without permits will be arrested and prosecuted,” he said when he met police chiefs at the Kenya School of Government. At the meeting, security bosses, who included police commanders and their DCI counterparts, asked the government to spell out the action that would be taken. The PS said the government tightened the issuing of work permits and will not tolerated undocumented foreigners seeking jobs. Meanwhile, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, a guest speaker, said the government will not abolish the Administration Police. He said his office and that of the Inspector General are working to improve police officers’ welfare, including housing. The document will be presented to President Uhuru Kenyatta, who directed the two security bosses to come up with measures to improve the docket. “We want a more robust and effective general police and a more responsive border police,” Matiang’i said. There is a proposal to have AP camps gazetted as police stations to improve efficiency. In the proposal, all AP and regular police officers will be posted to new stations. The rationale is to avoid duplication of roles and have both Kenya police and the AP undertake investigations and patrols jointly. At the moment, AP camps are not gazetted as police stations. They cannot hold suspects or conduct investigations. The government said it will allocate more resources to the National Police Service modernisation programme. The modernisation of the force has included the provision of vehicles, modern weapons, armoured vehicles for special operations and revamping of the police air wing. Affordable housing is part of Uhuru’ Big Four agenda which forms the bedrock of his legacy. It involves food security, universal healthcare and manufacturing. In March, Uhuru said modernisation of the police force would continue to safeguard the gains made in the fight against crime. Speaking during the pass out parade of 3,984 administration police officers at AP Training College, Embakasi, the Head of State said Kenya has made significant strides in the war on terror. “These investments have eased the response to emergencies and improved police efficiency. We also remain seized with the task of improving police welfare,” the President said. Uhuru added that a multi-agency approach to fighting organised crime has enabled the security forces to make tremendous gains in the war against terrorism. “We must adopt a whole of country approach in the fight against terrorism.”