Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has taken a swipe at politicians campaigning on the premise that some communities owe each other political debts. The ODM legislator said if the 2022 politics is about paying debts, then Kenyans should first pay the debt between the late founding President Jomo Kenyatta and Vice President Jaramogi Oginga Odinga. The Senator said that after the Kenyatta-Oginga debt is paid, then Kenyans should pay that of "Kibaki Tosha". ODM leader Raila Odinga used the phrase when he declared support for retired President Mwai Kibaki's bid in 2002. Outa, who was at the homecoming ceremony of ICT Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng, said Jaramogi sacrificed his presidential ambition for Kenyatta to become the first President of the republic of Kenya. "If it is a matter of paying debt then Kenyans should first pay the one between Jaramogi and Kenyatta senior before settling that of the famous Kibaki Tosha," Outa said. "The debt between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto came late and therefore, we cannot start talking of it before we settle the other ones." He asked Ruto to fully support handshake "instead of engaging in early campaigns of debt as his close allies have been rooting for." Outa commended Uhuru and Raila on the unity pact saying it will address historical injustices. He reiterated his support to the fight on corruption noting that the purge should be conducted in every ministry. "We want the lifestyle audit to be supported," Outa added. The Senator congratulated the ICT PS for his appointment and urged him to focus more on service delivery to Kenyans. "We are happy that our own son has been appointed among the best as a PS," he said. Also read: Raila's campaign team members land Uhuru's appointment Outa also praised Kuria for his visit in Kisumu. But in a quick rejoinder to Outa's assertions, Marakwet West MP William Kisang said Raila has Ruto's debt of 2007. "When paying debt, you should start with that of a child because he or she might have school fee arrears," he said amid laughter from those at the meeting. In 2007, the first Raila's campaign was in Aror Parish where hosted him and shared a meal, Kisang said. "The red hummer that Raila used got a puncture in front of my door. Raila should first pay that of Ruto," he added. Kisang, who chairs the ICT committee, pledged to support PS Jerome to effectively perform his duties. Uriri MP Mark Nyamitta said every politician should pay his or her debts further stating that "Raila should be paid two debts before he can pay that owed to Ruto". He criticised Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen for dragging Raila's name into the Mau eviction row. Nyamitta accused Murkomen of playing cheap politics saying the legislator should move to court if he feels aggrieved by the evictions. "I think Murkomen, as a lawyer, should explore legal opportunities instead if playing politics. Mau eviction lies directly in the office of the deputy president," he added. Nyamitta said those who have enriched themselves through corruption must be investigated. For his part, Nyando MP Jared Okello said thievery is unacceptable in Kenya and people must account for their wealth. "War on corruption must be fought in all angles. You cannot be employed today and the following year you are richer than Aliko Dangote. You must explain how you made your wealth." Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni wa Muchomba supported the war on corruption saying those mandated with asset recovery must effectively perform their duties. "The Asset Recovery Agency must ensure they bring back monies hidden in Denmark and Switzerland to help spur economic development in Kenya," Gathoni said. The fight on graft is unstoppable and must be supported by every leader, she added. Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie said that the unity between Uhuru and Raila will bring great things to Kenya and should be supported. During the ceremony, PS  Ochieng was installed as a Luo elder. Defence PS Terome Saitoti and his Immigration counterpart Gordon Kihalangwa were present. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, Kenya Film Classification Board CEO Ezekiel Mutua and Konza City CEO John Tonui also attended the fete. Also read: Moses Kuria gets rousing welcome in Kisumu, slams handshake critics Click here for the latest political news