By its nature and historical context, corruption is a white-collar crime
that includes acts ranging from outright theft by elites, rent-seeking in the
public sector to usage of insider knowledge to procure economic
advantages. In the context of a capitalist system, in which selfishness and greed
are not necessarily considered as vices, it is understandable why there is
remarkable moral ambivalence about the crime of corruption. This moral
ambivalence means unlike say robbery, corruption is not a crime that law
enforcement agencies fight all the time. It therefore makes headlines whenever
a season of fighting it comes along. In the current anti-corruption purge,
the man in the eye of the storm is Deputy President William Ruto, whose
supporters are convinced the crackdown is politically motivated to cut him down
to size over 2022 succession politics, rather than bona fide enforcement of
criminal law.  Invariably, in the heat of all this, a fortnight ago, the
DP had an interesting interview with NTV’s Mark Masai, where he made several
remarkable observations about corruption in Kenya.  Asked whether he takes
responsibility for the rising cases of graft, the DP said the Executive has
played its facilitative role to the agencies mandated to spearhead the fight before
he quickly lamented that we make corruption a big issue, yet “the biggest
threat to Kenya is not necessarily corruption, but leadership that has no
vision, that is incompetent and has no plan” For avoidance of doubt, the DP
hastened to add that despite graft claims, the Jubilee government has built the
standard gauge railway, connected five million Kenyans to the national grid and
built additional health referral facilities.  Accordingly, in Ruto’s
reckoning, incompetence rather than corruption, is the bane of Kenya’s economic
progress.  Strictly speaking, Ruto has a valid point cynical as it
sounds.  Empirical evidence shows many European, Asian and Latin American
countries went through the kind of corruption plaguing Kenya but somehow
managed to survive and so corruption per se need not be the major reason why
some states have failed or lagged behind economically.  It is equally true
that countries whose governing elites were generally competent from a technical
point of view have fared well economically, despite the prevalence of
Kenyan-type corruption.  Admittedly, a governing elite should be competent
and corruption-free and so it is certainly cynical to entertain the choice of
what is a greater evil between corruption and incompetence.  Yet, when the
man best positioned to be Kenya’s Fifth President decides to make a choice
himself, reason demands that we must discuss the issue. As a lawyer, I must say the debate
about incompetence and corruption is a constant controversy in the legal
sector.  During Justice Aaron Ringera-led purge of the Judiciary in 2003,
there was a heated debate about the kind of judges who should be forced out of
office, and the major issues revolved around judicial corruption and
incompetence.  The targeted judges were classified into three broad
categories.  First, some judges were viewed as generally competent but
corrupt.  Second, some judges were viewed as incompetent but not corrupt
and third some were considered as both corrupt and incompetent.  Those in
the latter category deserved to be forced out without much ado but opinion was
split about the other two categories. To some lawyers, incompetence was a
greater handicap for a judge than corruption because there is a fair likelihood
that a competent but corrupt judge might decide nine out of ten cases well and
compromise only one case. However, an incompetent but uncorrupt judge might
decide all the ten cases badly.  Legal practitioners are yet to resolve
this debate particularly because the number of judges under the category of
corrupt and incompetent is still rising. Viewed against this backdrop, Ruto
appears to concede the inevitability of corruption in our society and reckons
that it may be a necessary evil that might help the ambitious children of the
poor to catch-up with their privileged counterparts who have inherited
corruptly obtained wealth from their fathers.  In other words, if old
money acquired through corrupt means 30 years ago is viewed as legitimate
today, Ruto’s supporters are genuinely at a loss why the same corruption is a
big issue today.  According to this logic, corruption should be tolerated
so long as it does not stall or disrupt the business of government. 
Incidentally, this is the crux of the matter to my mind. To Ruto, the Jubilee government is
corrupt but competent to use the above analogy and there are no good reasons
why corruption should be made a big issue.  However, both anecdotal and
empirical evidence support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s view that graft has
become a massive issue in Kenya that deserves to be tackled as a national
security priority.  Up and till early 1990s, when Kamlesh Pattni and Cyrus
Jirongo’s YK92 happened, grand corruption was a preserve of a small circle of
elites around Presidents Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel arap Moi.  Indeed under
the former Constitution, few of the ministers, including the vice presidents
were politically strong enough to engage in their own grand corruption schemes. It is ironical that the 2010
Constitution, which was enacted to help fight corruption, has ended up giving
impetus to the same vice barely a decade later.  Courtesy of the
presidential system and devolution, Kenya is now not just threatened by the
grand corruption revolving around the President and his circle but also the
cartel surrounding the Deputy President, Chief Justice, the Speaker of the
National Assembly and the 47 governors, all of whom are vested with and
empowered by the Constitution to exercise sovereign powers on behalf of the
people, which includes being custodians of public funds.  These 51 state
officials are legally and politically powerful enough to engage in independent
grand corruption schemes.  And so whereas it could be argued that Kenya
could survive the grand corruption of small elite circles revolving around
Kenyatta and Moi, it is highly unlikely it could survive for long the grand
theft by so many personalities the Constitution vests with sovereign
power.  Put bluntly, for its size Kenya has simply too many actual and
potential big thieves! The issue of proliferation of
sovereign thieves is directly connected to economic growth because it means
that today, the top echelons of government are held by officials working for
themselves more than for the Kenyan state and its people.  To dramatize
the point, can we trust our 51 sovereigns to safeguard Kenya’s interest when
they go to Beijing and other capitals to negotiate deals with foreigners? 
Economic statistics show between 1990 and last year, the aggregate returns of
grand corruption have risen more than then times the increase of Kenya’s
GDP.  Put differently, Kenya is losing to grant corruption at a faster
rate than it is generating new wealth.  In short, Kenya cannot afford the
current seals of grand corruption. The final issue on grand corruption
relates to the reckless abandonment with which grand corruption is perpetrated
today.  Prior to the Goldenberg scam, the majority of the grand corruption
scandals involved theft of funds in the course of supply of goods or
implementation of projects.  However, during the Jubilee era, theft of
funds for supply of air, completely defective goods and boardroom projects have
become the rule rather than the exception.  This scorched earth theft
resembles blue-collar plebeian looting more than traditional white-collar
thievery by the patrician ruling classes. Given the unique challenges facing
Kenya, there is such a thing as sustainable and unsustainable corruption in my
book.  Sustainable corruption occurs when the ruling class enables the
rise of several local billionaires over a period of time in the course of
producing national wealth.  On the other hand, unsustainable corruption
happens when the ruling class devices unscrupulous schemes to share-out the
national budget and to sell out the country to foreigners at the risk of the country
going bankrupt.  A competent elite engages in sustainable corruption
whilst an incompetent elite engages in unsustainable corruption.  What
this means is that if the current scale of grand corruption is unsustainable
and might bankrupt it sooner rather than later, Ruto’s inference that Jubilee
government is understandably corrupt but otherwise competent cannot be true. The Jubilee government is both
corrupt and incompetent, otherwise its officials should have known that every
government project is not fair game for corruption and that making deals in
every nine out of ten tenders is insanity reloaded.  Fortunately for Ruto,
the buck stops with the President, who must confront this epidemic and address
the unacceptable incompetence and corruption during the era of Jubilee. As the President continues with the
anti-corruption war, he must also address the issues of the competence in his Cabinet
and the Treasury, without which Kenya is doomed.  Two things must be
addressed urgently.  The first issue is whether the current Cabinet is fit
for purpose as the highest policy making organ of the state.  Second is
whether the team running the Treasury has the required ideas to prevent Kenya
from being mortgaged by China and other foreigners sooner rather than later. 
The way I see it is that if Jubilee government was only corrupt but competent
as Ruto would like Kenyans to believe, the ongoing anti-corruption crackdown
would not be a compelling necessity for the President.  *The writer is a constitutional lawyer (kibemungai@yahoo.com). 