If you like burn schools but the exams will be administered under trees, Knec Chairman George Magoha has warned rogue students. Speaking in Kisumu girls on Tuesday, Magoha said students should desist from engaging in unlawful acts. "Examinations are very secure. It will be seen on the morning of exams...stop burning schools or doing these tantrums, we will not be moved. Discipline is not negotiable," he said. "If you like, burn more schools, we will administer the exams under trees. We will not be intimidated by acts of hooliganism." The tough-talking chairman said a student should study instead of planning on how to destroy property. "It is three months to the exams and a normal student should study. Getting our attention by burning property will not work. I can't understand why three months to exam you start burning schools. Don't waste your time," he said. "... it does not matter how good you are in management skills, if you are not there then you don't exist. Teachers and principals should be available in schools," he said. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed said preliminary investigations reveal that the unrest could be a response to the cancellation of some KCSE examination results last year due to cheating cases. At least 17 schools have been hit by student unrest in the last nine days alone as parents stare grimly at yet another round of disruptive juvenile arson. On Monday, nine schools witnessed unrest and were closed down indefinitely by respective boards of management as police launched investigations. Besides the cost to parents in destroyed property, the unrest will also take a toll on students preparing for KCSE examinations in three months. Students have burnt dormitories, dining halls and descended on other assets occasioning huge losses worth millions of shillings. As the incidences barreled across the country, the government yesterday threatened prosecution of students found culpable of causing the turmoil saying some 125 students are in police custody. Read: Three Siakago boys jailed on probation over school unrest Also read: Probe school fires quickly and find causes - principals Click here for the latest political news 