It's good that we are talking openly
about corruption and we appear to be taking some action. That includes the agreement between Kenya and Switzerland in
which the Swiss promised to return assets and wealth taken out of this
country. It's also positive that public servants have been arraigned,
including those linked to missing NYS funds. There are also court
cases against Kenya Power officials. This should be encouraged. But as we fight against corruption, it is important that the rule of law is respected. Taking people to court
is part of ensuring due process. If the process is arbitrary, we will be opening a Pandora's Box in which the accused might find legal
ways of stopping this process. Generally, the fight against corruption is
positive and bears fruits to the extent that these actions are being
taken. We hope there is sufficient and airtight evidence to
convict them. In the past, people
have been taken to court but the state hasn't adduced sufficient
evidence to convict them. We want to see convictions before we can
definitively say yes we are truly
fighting corruption. Political goodwill is the extent to which the leadership is committed to implementing what it says it wants to
implement. This includes giving authorities the freedom to act
in line with their mandate without interference. Political will does not stop at the President but
is required of the Deputy President and other politicians and non-politicians who wield power and influence. When somebody is corrupt it doesn’t
matter where he or she comes from. Corruption
eats into the fabric of society and our attempts to develop
economically. We need to develop a culture
in which people in top positions step aside when they are
adversely mentioned The appointing authority, in this case the
President, should not transfer people suspected to either abet or protect suspected corrupt persons. When people are transferred, explanations should be availed because
good governance requires that the public gets information about decision
making. Read: KPLC managers spend the night in police cells Also read: Haji proves critics wrong with prosecution of graft big fish The political science don at University of Nairobi spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political new