Several houses were yesterday demolished on the controversial land owned by the East African Portland Cement Company in Athi River. Hundreds of police officer guarded as bulldozers destroyed the houses and other structures. However, Athi River police boss Sharma Wario said the officers were not involved in pulling down the structures. The exercise covered close to five kilometres, from Mto Mawe Bridge towards the Small World. Wario said the demolitions were conducted by EAPCC officials who took advantage of heavy police presence on the land. “Our duty as police is to maintain peace and order. We want to ensure that peace prevails on that portion of land,” Wario said yesterday. He said some cartels who grabbed the EAPCC land and sold the same land to different unsuspecting buyers have been wrangling. He said the land is legally owned by the cement company. Wario said the cartels control more than 14 self-help groups. He said the groups have been illegally subdividing the land and selling it out. “On February 2, 2016, some groups fought on the same land, one person was shot dead. One year later, same people fought on the same land and five people were killed. Two days ago, some of the cartels demolished structures belonging to others. This is why we are conducting the operations,” he said. A senior security manager at EAPCC said said many people have been conned into buying non-existent land on the company’s farm in Athi River, Machakos county. The official, Bonaya Huka, has been liaising with the police to fight land-grabbers. He said many people have lost millions of shillings after they were issued with fake land titles. Huka denied that EAPCC was involved in yesterday’s demolitions. “We are not aware of the demolition. And if it is true it has happened, that is a blessing in disguise. We have fought endless wars in fending off the invaders, who seem to be well-connected individuals,” said Huka on the phone. He maintained that the original land title for the land is intact. “Our title is intact, and those others being issued to unsuspecting land buyers are fake,” he said. Early last year, Huka said the cartels are vicious and can kill those who stand on their way. EAPCC chief executive officer Peter ole Nkeri did not respond to either calls or SMS regarding the demolition. In 2016, the company claimed it was battling powerful cartels in its attempt to regain access to their Athi River land. The company has more than 13, 000 acres of land in Athi River that contain raw materials. Officials said most of it had been taken over by “powerful” individuals.