The government has admitted that Chinese nationals have flooded the country’s small scale business with low priced products, displacing thousands of Kenyan traders. Trade PS Chris Kiptoo while addressing concerns by Nairobi traders during the anti-illicit trade forum hosted by Kenya Revenue Authority yesterday said the government has received complains of Chinese hawking goods in the country and is addressing the problem. ‘’We are aware of Chinese trading here. The issue is being handled by immigration department to ensure that foreigners in the country are here legally and adhere to their visa specifications,’’ Kiptoo said. He declined to comment further on the issue, saying the matter is being dealt with. Nairobi Nyamakima Traders Association chairperson, Ann Nyokabi had sought the state's protection from the Chinese invasion. ‘’If you allow Chinese to roast maize in this country, what do you want local traders to do? They are not only killing our business but also denying government businesses,’’ Nyokabi lamented. Similar concerns were expressed by Nairobi Importers and Traders Association chairman Ben Mutahi who said the small and medium enterprise sector which provides 70 per cent of job opportunities in the country annually is under threat from the Chinese traders. ‘’The multi-agency team on illicit trade formed recently by the government has forced our members out of market, paving way for Chinese traders. We want Ministry of Trade to rescue us,’’Mutahi said. On July 4, traders in the city staged protests over alleged harassment by government agencies and destruction of their goods. They accused KRA, Anti-Counterfeit Agency and the Kenya Bureau of Standards of using the crackdown on contraband sugar and counterfeit products as an excuse to harass them. They also expressed their reservation on government’s directive that requires small scale importers to consolidate goods containers. The regulation comes into effect on June 19. When one trader’s goods are found to be unfit for the market, other legit traders suffer consequences. As a result, most of our goods are held in Mombasa,’’ Mutahi said. The Trade PS assured them that the government is looking into their grievances, and asked them to work with the state to eradicate illicit trade.