Western Stima will tomorrow parade their six new signings against Kangemi All Stars as they seek to regain the top spot in the National Super League. The new signings include strikers Dennis Ochieng from Kisumu All Stars, Kevince Ochieng from Ushuru and free agent Charles Kibet, who were brought to put teeth to a blunt attack. Assistant team manager Moses Nyalik has also boosted their defence with the signing of John Oginga from Nairobi City Stars and Dennis Oduor from Sony Sugar. Berry Kote a midfielder has also joined from Nairobi Stars. The club parted ways with an equal number of players including Calvin Wekesa and Edwin Otieno who joined Kisumu Hot Stars, Frank Leon midfielder joined Kisumu All Stars and Valen Mahero. Stima also lost Salim Ondeka to Sony Sugar while Austine Ochieng who joined Kangemi All Stars. The game will be preceded by an encounter between Nairobi City Stars and Modern Coast Rangers at Camp Toyoyo. Ushuru lead the log with 42 points followed by Nairobi Stima with 41 while Western Stima are third with 40 points. Kisumu All Stars will be seeking their first win in several games at Moi Stadium in Kisumu when they host second placed Nairobi Stima while another struggling team, GFE 105 welcome Bidco United at Sudi Stadium on Saturday. Sixth-placed Kibera Black Stars and Administration Police will face off at Hope Center. It is unclear if cash-strapped Isibania FC will honour their home fixture against KCB at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo. Last week, the club dished out their second walkover of the season against Western Stima when they failed to travel for their game at Moi Stadium. In the first round, Isibania failed to travel to Nivasha for their fixture against Kibera Black Stars. Isibania team manager David Chacha said: “We are now thinking of disbanding this team. Some leaders including the Migori County Government who promised to support us in second leg have not done anything for the team. It is a sad state of affairs here.” On Sunday, Ushuru has a chance to regain the top spot. The taxmen travel to Karuturi in Naivasha to battle fifth placed Kenya Police seeking three points against the law enforcers. At Mbaraki Sports Club, Coast Stima hopes to return to winning ways against Talanta while Afraha Stadium will host a Nakuru Derby against St Joseph’s Youth and 18th placed Nakuru All Stars.