   MPs from Kitui have denied secretly meeting Deputy President William Ruto to discuss support for 2022. Claims emerged on social media platforms that the nine MPs met with Ruto on Monday and reached a deal. But Kitui County Parliamentary Caucus chairman Makali Mulu said the Monday meeting was non-political. “The problem with Kenyans is associating everythin with politics. Our reason to meet the Deputy President was purely on
matters development. We did not go to the meeting with a political agenda,” Mulu said on the phone yesterday. He said Ruto promised to revive the stalled Umaa Dam to supply water to residents of Kitui town and its environs.    Kitui County Parliamentary Caucus chairman Makali Mulu said the promised was made during a meeting of the nine-member team with Ruto on Monday. The l  Mulu  was  speaking 
on phone  even as  word 
went round in a number  of social
media platforms  that Kitui  members of 
parliament  most of whom are from Wiper
party are in a political marriage with Ruto 
as he eyes the presidency in 2022.  He besides the Umaa dam that required about Sh. 1 billion to
revive but was  not factored in the  2018/19 budget. The MPs also wanted  issues 
of  the tarmacking of some roads  in Kitui County  addressed. “There is the Kibwezi-Kitui-Mwingi road   and
the Kandwia-Kyuso-Twimyua road that are being tarmacked and we wanted him to intercede
to ensure the work is fast-tracked,” said Mulu. The MP further said requested that the government should
seek donor funding from ADB and World Bank to finance other roads and water
projects.  He said the Mulutu-Athi road
should be tarmacked as is the Kyuluni-Zombe-Tana river road. Mulu said only one of the Kitui MPs Charles Nguna missed from
the meeting with the Deputy President as he had travelled to Russia.  He said that MP also requested mega dams be
constructed in Mwingi Central, Mwingi west and Kitui south constituencies. Eight of the Kitui MPs  inclusing Senator Enoch Wambau and Woma representative
Irene Kasalu  were on August 8th,
 2017  elected on 
kalonzo Musyoka’s Wiper Party. Only Rachel Nyamai (Kitui south) and Nimrod
Mbai  of Kitui east were elected on
Jubilee party. Ends….. 