As we commemorate Saba Saba Day, when Kanu-Moi dictatorship forces attacked and scuttled patriotic Kenyans headed to Kamukunji Grounds to demand an end to one-party rule and restoration of democracy, we must remind ourselves 10 enemies that have killed our freedom dreams. Dictatorship is a government that rules people, not through their wishes, needs and self-governance, but through imposed government, force, oppression and fear. It not only oppress and exploit people through forced taxation but also denies people freedom to change it. Bad leaders are persons produced by dictatorships to govern through use of money, theft and guns against the people’s interests. They also create dictatorship as a means of imposing their leadership on the people and stealing from them. Because they lead for self-gain and enrichment, they block development and make their constituents poor. When bad leaders are in power, they are like the lead sheep. When they limp, the flock does not reach the pastures. Lawlessness is the absence of the rule of law, with which dictators govern the people. Dictators do not govern by the law. In such an environment, the people are oppressed, denied justice and oppression. Even when they are robbed and exploited, they have no protection from emasculated law. Corruption is when leaders, the rich and powerful persons use power to steal from the people, leaving them too poor to meet their basic needs. Right now, the country is engulfed in a corruption crisis that has not been seen before. Because of graft, roads are horrible, hospitals are dilapidated and lack medicine, dams are collapsing and killing people, while corrupt workers are stealing right left and centre. Jungle system is when the country is subjected to a dictatorship and lawlessness. Indeed if there is any law, it is the law of the strong against the weak and meat eaters against grass eaters. Such societies do not identify themselves as jungle societies and systems. Instead, they identify themselves as somewhat civilized capitalism, which disguises the brutality, cruelty and barbarism of the jungle societies. Budgets of jungle societies and governments are for the rich. Instead of lowering the cost of living for the poor, they raise them and do the opposite for the poor. Already, we have seen the cost of food, fuel and medicine being raised. Taxes of using mobile phones and mobile money transfers rates have also been raised, to the detriment of the poor. Negative ethnicity is the means jungle societies use to ensure the poor do not organise themselves against bad governance by the rich. Using falsehood, the poor are made to believe that because they come from the same ethnic community with the rich, that they cannot be cannibalised. Slavery is technically obsolete but still alive in many societies, especially in societies that have large slum communities. Some live in worse places than the slaves. As long as we have poor people in slums, we must admit slavery is alive and there are people who need liberation. Black apartheid is not acknowledged in Kenya. Yet after the abolition of White apartheid, which was the bedrock of European colonialism in Kenya, apartheid did not disappear. It only changed colour — from white to black. Today, it confines the poor to certain hospitals, residential areas and schools. Though enforced by money, this apartheid is contrary to freedom and must finished. Mental blindness is ignorance that makes it impossible for the poor and the not so well-educated to understand things such as elections, analyze them and make useful decisions. As victims of mental blindness, the poor are in the dark and cannot liberate themselves. When Patel workers opposed his arrest and prosecution for corruption, they are victims of mental blindness.      