Kenya cannot celebrate the youth while “belittling, disparaging and demeaning” the elderly at the ballot. This was the message sent by the National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs committee after it dismissed a petition that sought to have the age of presidential candidates capped at 69. This was a sigh of relief for aspirants aged 70 and above. They have nothing to fear after Garissa resident Mohamed Mohamud’s petition was thrown out. Muhamud had said he anchored the six-page application in “scientific argument” about productivity of older people. Read: Petitioner seeks to cap presidential age limit The Constitution does not have an upper presidential age limit. The MPs want no amendment. “The country appears to be celebrating the youth and belittling, disparaging and demeaning the elderly,” the committee chaired by William Cheptumo (Baringo North) said in a report tabled in the House last Thursday. “The rights of the older members of society to fully participate in affairs of the society, pursue personal development, live in dignity and respect free from abuse as enshrined in the Constitution ought to be upheld in equal measure as those of the youth.” It said barring older people from running for political office would amount to discrimination and violates the Constitution. Mohamud had wanted the Constitution amended to allow “positive discrimination”. “Though unfortunate, the undeniable reality is that age comes with a fair share of health challenges that are often costly to manage,” he said. “It’s more desirable to introduce a retirement age which will serve to cushion the republic from unnecessary expenditure and disruptions, as it strives towards eradication of poverty, disease, ignorance and corruption.” The House team however not every person experiences medical conditions and life-threatening diseases as they age. “Indeed, some older members of society are fruitful and very productive in their old age,” it said. “Certain state officers such as judges and magistrates are subjected to retirement age, but not political officers because these are unique offices of leadership and wisdom — traits that advance with age.” If the committee adopted the recommendations and went ahead with the proposed amendment, NASA leader Raila Odinga would have been one of the casualties. Raila, 73, will be 77 during the next election in 2022. He has not, however, indicated if he will try again in 2022, although ODM chairman John Mbadi yesterday said he remains the party candidate until another person is nominated to take over. Those expected to be in the 2022 presidential contest include Deputy President William Ruto, 52, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, 57, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, 65, and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetangula, 56. A bid to include the age limit in the 2010 Constitution failed at the last minute. Also read: Bid to cap presidential age limit elicits mixed reactions from MPs Click here for the latest political news