Kisii police boss Francis Nguli yesterday said crime has dropped in the area because of the fight against illegal gambling. He said police have confiscated and destroyed betting machines where the youth spent most of their time instead of engaging in productive work. Nguli said some sly traders have devised a new method in which they lure the youth to particular houses for gambling. He cited a house at Nyamataro on the outskirts of Kisii town where more than 200 machines were found. "We have information that illegal gambling is going on at night to escape arrest,” the police boss said. Nguli said theft cases were rife before the crackdown as the youths looked for shortcuts to get money for gambling. He said some schoolchildren abandon classes to engage in gambling. Nguli said 25 foreigners who were arrested for illegal gambling business in Kisii would be deported. He said they had ill motives because they lacked licenses. The police boss warned residents against harbouring foreigners who lacked valid papers. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i ordered a crackdown on illegal betting. The CS told county and regional commissioners to raid premises and confiscate unlicensed gambling machines. He also warned that foreigners involved in illegal betting would be arrested, charged and deported. In Embu, a Chinese man and a Kenyan woman were arrested on June 11 for operating an illegal slot-gambling-machine assembly plant and 192 machines. Some Sh65,385 coins and the machines were impounded. They suspects were seized in a rented house in Karurina market, Embu West. Eastern region and Embu county security committees said the two were unlawfully assembling the controversial slot-gambling machines, whose importation and supply were banned. The machines were burnt at the Embu town’s dumping site. In Voi, at least 200 gambling machines were impounded on June 6 following a directive by commissioner Rodah Onyancha. Onyancha ordered chiefs to confiscate the coin-slot gaming machines, saying students and unemployed youths were highly involved and crimes had increased. "Our women and youths are losing a lot of money through these machines," she said. The commissioner warned chiefs whose areas were notorious for gambling that they would face the music. Last year, a report by the county showed at least 3,000 youths played the games.