Eighty-two state agencies are on the spot for defying President Uhuru Kenyatta and the National Land Commission’s directive to provide information on land owned. The NLC on February 28 wrote to the head of Public Service Commission and Secretary to the Cabinet Joseph Kinyua to direct all ministries, departments and agencies to provide data on size, maps and where they are located. Subsequently, on March 14, Kinyua issued the directive to PSs and heads of the state agencies to provide the information. He said the data will reveal the level of utilisation of the public land and guide provision of resources. “Maps of the land should also be submitted to NLC in digital form,” Kinyua said in the circular to the PSs. In his 2015-16 audit reports, Auditor General Edward Ouko said land-related problems are evident in 61 state firms and agencies. He cited land grabbing by private and public entities, questionable allocation to prominent and nondescript individuals and missing title deeds. Ouko also highlighted questionable dealings in prime plots as well as secret compensations and contradicting ownership documents. State firms are at risk of losing billions of shillings worth of prime land, the auditor said. Land measuring at least 100,000 acres allocated to the 61 state firms and agencies either have no ownership documents, or have been taken over by private developers, squatters, churches and other government institutions. Thirty-eight state firms do not have title deeds. In the latest NLC report, out of the 109 state agencies and departments that received the circular, only 27 have submitted the data. Among those that have submitted include Kenya Wildlife Service, Forest Service, Railways, Roads Board, Lake Basin Authority, the TSC, Capital Market Authority, Immigration and Border Control, KBC and the Communication Authority. Others are Kerio Valley Development Authority, NHIF, KenGen, Department of Labour and the Assurance Company Ltd. The Agricultural Development Corporation has had its land invaded across the country. It tops the list of agencies yet to submit the data. Others are the Betting Control and Licensing Board, Brand Kenya, Bomas of Kenya, CBK, Coffee Board, Coffee Research Foundation, IEBC, Energy Regulatory Commission, EACC, Airports Authority, Civil Aviation Authority, Coconut Development Authority, Ferry Services and the Flower council. The NLC said if the public land will not be captured in the government land inventory currently being developed, the plots will be exposed to grabbing and other challenges in accessing them for public use. Read:The Community Land Act: Now it’s up to communities Click here for the latest political news