Ezekiel Odera struck deep into stoppage time to earn defending Sportpesa Shield champions AFC Leopards a place in the quarter finals of this year’s tourney as they saw off National Division One Zone ‘A’ side Mwatate United 2-1. The game seemed destined for penalties after substitute Eugene Mukangula had cancelled out John Musyoka’s shock opener for the visitors in the sixth minute but Odera calmly slotted the winner in additional time to spare Ingwe the agony of a post-match shoot-out. Mwatate never seemed overawed playing at Kasarani against one of the country’s most celebrated and successful football clubs, Leopards. The Division 3 outfit showed why they are among the favourites for promotion to the National Super League as they took the lead barely 10 minutes into the match. A long ball forward by left-back Hashim caught the Leopards’ central defence on their heels, allowing Musyoka to calmly control the ball on his chest before rifling an unstoppable shot past Ezekiel Owade. The lead was no more than what Mwatate deserved as they had kept Leopards at an arms’ length until that moment. They then faced a true test of nerves in their attempt to hold onto the lead against the Shield champions. Ezekiel Odera headed feebly into the waiting arms of Godfrey Lowo in the 15th minute before Marvin Omondi’s overhead kick sailed over the bar a couple of minutes later. Mwatate’s counter-attacking approach to the game nearly saw them double their lead when Musyoka ran clean through and attempted to beat Owade from a tight angle when he was better off passing to two of his teammate who were waiting for the cross with the goal gaping. It was a rush of judgement expected from a player in the third tier league but it was never going to escape punishment. Having gone into the break staring at a shock elimination, Leopards coach Rodolfo Zapata sent on Whyvonne Isuza and Eugene Mukangula to help find a way back into the game. It took only two minutes of the second half for Mukangula to draw Leopards level as he volleyed a thumping drive past Lowo who until then had frustrated all Ingwe’s efforts to hit the back of the net.