Residents of Kibera have been asked to start vacating to pave way for the construction of Ngong Road-Lang’ata Road link road. Kenya Urban Roads Authority said enumeration of those to be affected has been done. The agency’s communication officer John Cheboi said putting of beacons and recording affected residents started on Tuesday and ended on Friday. The 2,000 families will receive compensation. They have been given until the end of next week to vacate as the compensation is processed. “We want them to start salvaging their property because the process is just about to start. We will use of own means to flatten the structures after the end of next week,” Cheboi said. Residents on Friday said the enumeration process was far from over in what signals an opposition to Kura’s plans. Nubians Human Rights Chairman Shaffie Ali said surveyors have only marked half of the corridors and recorded less than half of those to be affected. “The exercise was supposed to end today [Friday] but I don’t think if that will be possible because where they are headed now is the most populous area with houses too close to each other,” Ali said. He said residents will vacate only after they are enumerated. The list of beneficiaries will have to be confirmed by a committee comprising residents, Kura, National Land Commission (NLC) and the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR). According to Ali, at least 7,000 families or about 30,000 people will be affected by the road construction works. Cheboi said the committee will sit and estimate the value of the structures before seeking compensation funds from the National Treasury. “This is a long process that will continue as the road construction also continues because we have to look for money from the Treasury,” Cheboi said. The road will cut 60m wide from the DC’s office in the North to Kibera South Health Centre before proceeding to Kungu-Karumba Road. It will have a 2.5m wide cycle tracks on each side and pedestrian walkways. A total of 10 acres will be used for the construction of the road. Cheboi said only 600m of the road land is occupied by residents. The link road is expected to reduce traffic jam on Lang’ata Road, Mbagathi Way and Ngong Road. Last week, residents started moving back to their villages while others sought accommodation in other parts of the slum to avoid forcible eviction. An forceful eviction schedule for last Monday was halted after a crisis meeting between Kura, NLC, KNCHR and representatives of residents.