The Kenya Tourism Board is working with the Lake Victoria region counties to market their diverse tourism products as “world-class experiences”. CEO Betty Radier on Friday said they are identifying tourism products that have not been showcased and those that require transformation. “We are actively working with the counties to help them understand how to package, position and sell their tourism products as export-ready products to enable them to attract visitors,” she said. Radier said she was optimistic that the region will attract a large number of tourists. The KTB recently held a forum in Kisumu that brought together private sector players in the hospitality, and tours and travel sectors. It said they will target domestic, regional and international markets. Radier said the partnership is part of its product development and marketing strategy being implemented over the next five years. The region’s signature nature and wildlife products include Impala Sanctuary, Lake Victoria, Kakamega Forest and Ruma National Park. Its culture and heritage include Kit Mikayi, Crying Stone, Soapstone carvings in Tabaka, Kisii, pottery, museums, Nabongo Kingdom and Thimlich Ohinga. Beaches include Rusinga Island, Dunga and Takawiri. Water sports include sailing, fishing, cruises and festivals, while events include bull fighting. Thimlich Ohinga is a prehistoric site located in Migori. It was recently elevated to a World Heritage Site by Unesco owing to its exceptional status as one of the largest and best preserved traditional enclosures in the world. Radier said the visit to Kenya by former US President Barack Obama  will position Kenya as a destination not only to the US — Kenya’s number one tourism market — but also showcase areas that build around the Lake region’s cultural and historical heritage. Obama will land in the country on Monday and launch the Sauti Kuu Foundation in Kogelo, Siaya. “The visit to the region will serve as a gateway that will open up his ancestral home in Kogelo into a must-see iconic experience for visitors,” she said. “It will also provide an opportunity for the 14 counties in the Lake Region Economic Bloc to showcase their unique and diverse tourism products.” The Lake Region Economic Bloc comprises Bomet, Kericho, Nyamira, Kisii, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Siaya, Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma and Vihiga. Radier said the region has the capacity to receive and host high caliber guests, courtesy of the improved air and road transport. Kisumu hosts an international airport — Kenya’s third busiest.