Sixty-six per cent of human waste in Nairobi is untreated, posing dangers to health and the environment, water and sanitation experts have said. The revelation comes days after Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko announced the free use of public toilets. Experts and the government yesterday unveiled a ‘Shit Flow Diagram (SFD)’, showing the flow of faecal waste in Nairobi. The map and a report shows that 66 per cent of waste generated does not end up in treatment plants. Only 40 per cent of residents are connected to the sewer system. Fifty- four per cent of residents us non-sewered disposal and 30 per cent of that waste is poorly handled. “The remaining six per cent still practice open defaecation,” reads the report. Speaking in Nairobi during the launch of the report yesterday, acting Nairobi Water technical director Lucy Njambi said there was little documentation on sanitation but disposal is a major problem. The county is improving the sewerage coverage, she said. Njambi said there are trunk sewers that are not in use, especially on river banks. She said they will be reconstructed to serve areas such as Kasarani, Umoja and Eastlands among other areas at a cost of Sh9 billion. Njambi said only 100,000 cubic litres of human waste gets to Ruai treatment plant daily and the county cannot account for more than 400,000 cubic litres of waste. She said the Ruai treatment plant receives a very small percentage of waste, despite the NWSC pumping more than 500,000 litres of water daily. “We do not know how much is going to septic tanks, conservatory and pit latrine. We don’t know where it is getting lost ,whether it’s through over flowing and use of pit latrines,” Njambi said. She said the county has rehabilitated the Kayole sewerage plant with a capacity of 32,000 cubic litres, while Kahawa West and Karen have a capacity of 5,000 cubic litres each. She said sewerage encroachment has seen manholes passing through houses, hence authorities are unable to flush and unblock the systems. Kepha Ombacho, director of Public Health, said, “Today’s launch of Nairobi County Shit Flow Diagram is a step in the right direction. It has given the public and private sector a platform from which to understand the scope of the sanitation challenge.” County Director for Water Mario Kainga said more than 500,000 residents are not served with sanitation services. He cited lack of funds and proper legal mechanism to ensure that that residential houses get proper sewerage disposal as most are directerd to Nairobi water. 