The man at the centre of the Sh3.2 billion Ruaraka land probe was released on Wednesday evening by the police after recording statements. Flying Squad officers arrested Francis Mburu in the morning and took him to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations where he recorded statements. A man claiming to be a National Intelligence Service officer had promised to help him over the case. As he was being questioned, Mburu's lawyers moved to the High Court where he is seeking a declaration that investigations being carried out by the EACC into the disputed Ruaraka land are unconstitutional He says the basis of the commission’s probe is solely informed by ulterior motives and premised on malicious falsehoods peddled by whistle-blower Meshack Dehay — now a state witness. In a related development, National Land Commission boss Muhammad Swazuri on Wednesday defended the commission over the controversial Sh1.5 billion compensation for the Ruaraka land but skirted answering thorny questions. Flanked by fellow commissioners and senior staff, he read a prepared press statement justifying the payment but declined to entertain questions from journalists. NASA implosion ODM party members on Wednesday came out guns blazing in defence of their leader and claimed that Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula wanted Raila Odinga arrested after the swearing-in. In a statement, the party claimed that Raila had been earmarked for arrest and charged with treason after he was sworn in on January 29 and that Wetang'ula was aware. They were reacting to Wentangula's claim that the NASA coalition was dead adding he is no longer a part of it since his political journey with Raila is over. At the same time, Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa, a close Wetangula ally and the minority deputy whip in the National Assembly, hit out at his boss saying Fork Kenya was in NASA to stay. He said the decision to Join NASA was collective, and Ford Kenya is still registered under the alliance. Mining troubles The future of mining appears to hang in the balance Tullow Oil has stopped work at its Kenyan oilfield and halted trucking operations due to security issues, the firm’s chief executive Paul McDade told Reuters on Wednesday. This happened as Australian-owned mining firm Base Titanium also announced it has suspended exploration activities in parts of Kwale County to resolve community issues. Tullow had on Tuesday last week threatened to suspend activities in Turkana within two weeks if the impasse with the local community is not resolved. Demolitions hit small traders Misery, hopelessness and confusion are written on the face of Jane Thuku, 50, a trader at the recently demolished Mutindwa Market in Buruburu Estate. Three days after the structures were pulled down, Jane still sits beside her stall, which is now nothing but pieces of crushed iron sheets and wooden poles. Jane is among the 500 traders who have now become jobless after county officers demolished their stalls for security reasons on July 19. Small traders are bearing the brunt of the ambitious plans to clean up the city as well as expand infrastructure. Nairobi water woes The Nairobi County government wants a law enacted to regulate water vending. The Water committee led by chairman Paul Kados has raised concern over the supply of water by bowsers. According to Kados, Nairobians believe the bowsers supplying water to their homes are owned by the county, which is false. "That also makes us question whether the water supplied by the bowsers is safe for human consumption,” Kados said.  Your Weather NAIROBI: Cloudy. High 19ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 15 to 30 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 80%.