Police are archiving and consolidating charges that will be preferred to every student involved in crime while in school, DCI boss George Kinoti has warned. The Crimes include armed and unpeaceable demos, arson, drugs, cyberbullying, assault of any degree, drunkenness or any reported crime of any kind. "Let each student be informed that it will automatically be reflected on the Police Clearance Certificate when such student will apply for one," Kinoti said in a statement on Sunday. Some students have been engaging in criminal activities like holding protests and burning schools. In the last one week, several schools, mostly in Nyanza have been closed down indefinitely following students unrests. Among them is Kisumu girls high school that was closed after the girls went on a rampage destroying the schools' property, smashing windows including their principal vehicle. Read: Maasai Girls' school closed indefinitely after claims of rape by teacher Also read: Property destroyed after fire burns down Nduluku Boys dormitory The Police boss said if the crime is recorded on their certificates, it will be a Permanent Criminal mark that will bar many students from achieving their goals. "No employer of worth will dare employ such characters. This is therefore to warn the students and to ask parents, religious leaders and guardians to take note and advice them accordingly," Kinoti added. More than 120 schools around the country were set on fire last year, according to research by a Canadian professor. Students complained about poor food, scarce teaching materials, harsh teachers and management that ignored their concerns. Many compare their schools to prison. In 2017, a task force investigating school fires said political interference, peer pressure, indiscipline and mounting pressure on students to score good grades sparked the incidents. The task force cited lack of intelligence gathering mechanisms and mismanagement of school resources as another cause. They also pointed out that too many exams also pushed students in most of the affected schools to burn down learning facilities. More on this: Politics, incitement and students' peer pressure sparked school fires – report Click here for the latest political news