Speaking at the Majlis Hotel in Lamu during the official release of
a report by the Taskforce on Compensation of Fishermen Affected by the
Development of Lamu Port,Oremo said instead the Lapsset would
only compensate the affected fishermen in kind. On May 1 this year,the
Malindi High Court in a land mark ruling directed that the Lapsset pay the over
4000 fishermen Sh.1.7 Billion before the end of the year. The court had
found that the government violated the community’s cultural rights and the
right to a clean and healthy environment when they started the construction of
the port project. For over seven
years,the fishermen have unsuccessfully tried to seek monetary compensation
after their traditional fishing channels were closed off due to activities at
the port site. They were subsequently
also displaced following the commencement of the construction of the first
three berths at the site. The Sh.2.5 Trillion
LAPSSET project is being undertaken at Kililana area in Lamu. The building and operations of the
port has necessitated the cessation of traditional fishing practices in some of
the channels heavily relied on by fishermen in the region. This automatically means that traditional
fishing waters will have to be closed off to a significant number of artisanal
fisher persons who currently depend on the channel for their livelihood. Artisanal fisher men will now be
forced to abandon their trade on the safer channels and will now have to
struggle and cope with the risky demands in the high seas. The fishermen had earlier argued
that the government had not been forthcoming about any plans to cushion the
fisher persons of Lamu from the economic and social fall-out that will result
from this development. This recent development will most likely not go down
well with the fishermen who were looking forward to monetary compensation just
like the court had directed. Oremo  said the authority was in the process of
engaging local leaders and the affected fishermen over their decision before
the compensation process kicks off before end year. “Compensation
will entail providing the fishers with medium sized fishing vessels equipped
with contemporary fishing aid, provision of outboard engines, and provision of
intensive training to capacity build fishers in order to enable their
transition flawlessly from Coastal water fishing to offshore fishing,”said
Oremo. Fishermen
will also be provided with iceboxes, market stalls and refrigerated trucks. Oremo also
said they were also working with the county department of fisheries to indenify
and develop all fishing landing sites as part of the compensation package. “The court directed that the Lapsset pay them
Sh 1.76 billion. It should however be noted that there will be no monetary compensation.
The fishermen will be given comparable compensation. We shall give the
fishermen skills and equipment so that they continue with the trade,” said Oremo. Lamu governor
Fahim Twaha asked the Lapsset to ensure all those affected are compensated in a
manner that’s transparent, consultative and expedient to all stakeholders
particularly those who surrendered their right of exploiting the resource to
pave way for the Lamu Port construction. “At the
end of the day its justice delivered for our fishermen.Letb whats to happen
take place in the most transparent manner possible,”said Twaha. However Lamu
East MP Athman Shariff asked the Lapsset authority to stop dictating the terms
of compensation and instead issue monetary compensation as that’s what the
fishermen want to enable them start new lives. The MP
said it was unrealistic and untenable to give compensation in kind since the
trade will never be the same again as many will now prefer to quit due to
obvious dangers that come with deep sea fishing. “The
fishermen deserve money so that they go and decide which alternative ventures
to get into.It shouldn’t be decided for them in such a situation,”said Shariff. The Lapsset
board meets the fishermen of Friday this week to announce the decision. 