Corruption is a contagious disease. Luckily it has a vaccine. And government looks like it is finally trying to administer the vaccine. Corruption is not a Kenyan phenomenon. It is rife in South America, Eastern Europe, Asia and of course on our home continent. Corruption is more than a crime, it has become a way of life, a norm. And for this reason, stamping it out requires a degree of fear. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tough new war on corruption is making headlines. Using the presidency to fight graft is an excellent decision. Many in Uhuru’s base truly love him. They look up to him. Some in the Mt Kenya region almost deify him. But love is not enough to change a national problem. Machiavelli in his famous book, The Prince, spends much time debating whether as a leader it is better and more political expedient to be loved or feared. His conclusion is that while ideally you want to be both, if you have to choose one, it should be the latter. New chief public prosecutor Noordin Haji was a wise pick. As a former deputy head of national intelligence, he does not mess around. He has already charged a sitting governor with corruption, for the first time in Kenya’s history. This means he is not afraid to go after the big fish. In May, more than 50 people were charged, the vast majority of them civil servants. This was in regard to the ‘small’ disappearance of almost $100 million (Sh10 billion) from the National Youth Service. Everyone should of course be presumed innocent until proven guilty. But one thing is for sure. The prosecutors and State House are right to be making a public racket of this. The more noise the better. Let it sink in. The heydays of graft must be put behind us. The policeman on the street must be made to think twice before looking for an ‘on the spot’ fine. The official in the Huduma Centre or government office should realise there is no more ‘tipping’ to provide better or faster services. Every citizen is equal, and any official trying to tip the balance for personal gain or enrichment will face the full wrath of the law. The fight against corruption is also bringing leaders together. Unity is crucial if we are to win this battle. Baringo senator Gideon Moi, a potential presidential candidate, and Kalonzo Musyoka (a forever presidential candidate), from the Kalenjin and Kamba communities, respectively, made very public statements in support of the President’s agenda last week. Corruption plagues every tribe and each Kenyan — and thus must be tackled as a nationwide problem. We are in a new reality. All procurement decision-makers are now undergoing spy-level vetting, including lie detector tests. Government is thus combining technology with international best practices to ensure utmost transparency. From now on publication of all public tenders must be widely and easily available. As the details of the companies, or conglomerates, and their directors are made known, full and open transparency will root out the previous wastage. Critically, in the spirit of servant leadership, civil servants, diplomats and elected officials will now have to undergo rigid lifestyle audits. Leading by example, the President is starting with himself. While these moves may seem bureaucratic and technocratic, we should understand that when fighting a battle or war, first you must prepare and educate the leadership and the troops. The generals and commanders must set a shining example, a moral code of conduct that permeates into the fabric of the army; or in this case, the nation. The average Kenyan unfortunately has seen corruption and wastage for far too long. It can no longer be the norm. With the proverbial record changed and our leaders showing the way, Kenya must now build a new clean, corruption-free path for a better future for our children.