Deputy President William Ruto yesterday said the government will review budget allocations to the Judiciary. The DP told the African Bar Conference at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre the executive will engage legislators to find a solution to the budget cut. Ruto was responding to Chief Justice David Maraga’s Monday protest that the national government has reduced the Judiciary budget by Sh5 billion. As a result, 70 projects at the Judiciary have stalled. “We will definitely have a solution so that we give to Kenyans the best,” Ruto said. He also said the national government will clear the pending funds on time. “We will make sure all arms of government are moving together. The Executive will engage with the Legislature to ensure they have all resources required to deliver.” National Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the government does not have enough money to spread out over competing needs. “The Judiciary submits their budget directly to the National Assembly for approval so that what is reflected in the Appropriations Act 2018 as the budget for the Judiciary is what was approved by the National Assembly,” Rotich said. Ruto supported the CS’s sentiments, but said he will meet stakeholders to address the issue. Read:Don't worry, we'll review budget, Ruto tells Judiciary “We have competing ... resources such as water and rural electricity projects. We will not leave a functioning Judiciary behind.” But the DP urged government agencies to account for resources allocated to them. He said stakeholders in the corridors of justice wield great influence and their contribution will propel the national agenda. “We run a huge risk if we personalise institutions. That is why the law provides for checks and balances and shields them from undue influence.” Rotich said the Judiciary, like other government institutions, presented its wish list for the year to Parliament. But it was allocated funds based on the available revenues and priorities. The Judicial Service Commission called a press conference to raise the alarm over under-funding. It accused the national government of assaulting the independence of the Judiciary by slashing its budgetary allocation. Maraga said the reduced funding will have far-reaching consequences on the administration of justice and the Judiciary’s modernisation programme. National Assembly Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Kimani Ichung’wa said his team rationalised all proposed allocations and concurred with most decisions the Treasury made. Read:Drastic budget cuts will stall 70 Judiciary projects, Maraga warns Click here for the latest political news