While
turning down a chance to join a radical privacy activist group, Sameen
Shaw, a character in popular TV show Person of Interest
said, “How you do is just as
important as what you do”. The
moral of the adage has now hit home for underwriter APA and a private
investigation firm it hired to flash out an attempted insurance fraud
scheme by Nairobi-based businessman David
Ngite and a
driver—Geoffrey Ngumo. APA
and Rapid Investigation Services have been ordered to pay Sh2 million
to Ngite and Ngumo as compensation for illegally obtaining their
private phone records, and using them in a court to try and
prove fraud. Ngite and Fuels
Trading Company sued APA in 2011 after the insurer refused to
compensate them for a vehicle that was destroyed after it rolled off
a cliff along the Nairobi-Mai Mahiu highway. A year later, Ngite
and the lorry driver, Ngumo, sued APA and Rapid
Investigations Services seeking compensation for violation of their
right to privacy. The two demanded Sh2
million each, arguing Rapid Investigations, which APA hired to
probe the claim, did not get their consent before obtaining their call
records from Safaricom. Judge Tuiyott in his
decision dismissed the compensation claim, arguing Ngite and
Fuels Trading Company failed to give any evidence that the incident
was indeed an accident. On the violation of
privacy claim, however, Justice Tuiyott agreed with Ngumo and Ngite. Basing his decision on a 2016
ruling in which former Miss Kenya Roshanara Ebrahim was awarded Sh1
million for violation of privacy after her ex-boyfriend leaked her nude
photos, Justice Tuiyott held that a similar award to Ngite and Ngumo
would be fair. Ngumo has since
relocated to the US, and was thus unavailable to
testify. His absence dealt a
blow to Fuels Trading and Ngite's claim for compensation, as his
testimony would have been crucial in arguing  the vehicle had an accident. The judge said
there was not enough evidence to show that the damage on the vehicle was as a result of the accident hence dismissed the compensation claim, denying Ngite, who took out the insurance policy, Sh4.48 million. Judge Tuiyott said the phone records evidence was obtained
illegally, and by law, cannot be used in court. He added that there
was no evidence to show APA directed the detectives to obtain
the phone records, but noted the underwriter tried to benefit from the
illegally acquired evidence, thus guilty of privacy
violation. The underwriter used
the investigation findings in its defence, including results from the
phone snooping. “There is no
evidence to the contrary and I cannot find that the insurer directed
Rapid to snoop into Ngite's and Ngumo's private communication.
Nonetheless, it is expected that on issues of fundamental rights we
ought to be our brothers or sisters keeper. In the very least one
must not aid, abet or encourage the violation of another's rights.” “APA was happy to
use information that had been obtained at the expense of the
fundamental rights of Ngite and Ngumo in presenting its defence. It
did not frown upon Rapid for obtaining the information illegally.
This court must censure the insurer for attempting to gain an
advantage from use of information that was obtained in violation of
the rights of privacy of the two plaintiffs. For this reason this
court finds the insurer equally liable,” the judge ruled. The ruling by High
Court judge Francis Tuiyott has drawn the border line on how far
investigators, in both the public and private sectors, can go as
detectives try to build cases against suspects. On January 22, 2010,
Ngumo visited Lari police station and reported the vehicle he
was driving had been involved in an accident along the Nairobi-Mai
Mahiu highway. Ngumo said he was
transporting constructions materials from various sources to a site
in Pipeline, Embakasi where Fuels Trading Company was carrying out
some works. The vehicle was
registered to Fuels Trading Company. But the firm said
that after buying the truck, it gave beneficial ownership to Ngite. Ngite then took out
a policy with APA Insurance which was to expire in June, 2010. At the time his
driver Ngumo reported the accident to Lari police station the vehicle
was hanging on a rock nearly 100 metres down an escarpment, but there
was nobody injured. The vehicle was,
however, written off. Ngite obtained a
police abstract from Lari, which described the accident as a hit and
run, non-injury accident. Police, however, did
not visit the scene of the accident, nor did they conduct an
investigation on the matter. Constable David
Ruto, who was at the time of the accident based at Lari police
station, testified and said no investigations were done
because Ngumo never returned to record a statement. After Fuels Trading
Company and Ngite claimed compensation from APA for the written off
truck, the underwriter commenced investigations as per policy. Rapid Investigations
Services was hired to look into the accident and confirm whether it
was worthy of compensation. Rapid detective John
Mukigi said he visited Lari police station and did not find any
accident report involving the vehicle. Mukigi added that he
interviewed officers who were on duty on the night of the accident,
and they did not receive any report from Ngumo. The investigator
then used his CID contacts to acquire phone records of Ngite and the
driver, Ngumo. The records would
reveal that on the night of the alleged accident Ngumo was in Kikuyu
area from 10:57pm to 7:56am the next day when he moved to the Ngong
Hills area. Ngite's phone
records indicated he was in Kibiko, near Ngong, throughout the
night. The records also showed Ngite and Ngumo were in constant
communication on that night. Further inspection
of the vehicle revealed there may have been no driver at the
time it rolled down the escarpment, according to the investigator. Mukigi said he
sought opinions from vehicle engineering experts during the probe,
and was informed after a serious accident, the key gets jammed
in the ignition which points at the “on” position. The ignition for the
truck at the centre of the Fuels Trading dispute was in the “off”
position, an indication the vehicle may have been turned off
before it went down the cliff. “We inspected the
ignition key slot and were convinced the vehicle was already
switched off by the time it rolled. We noted the slot was on the
“off” position. We sought opinion from experts in the motor
vehicle engineering field who told us had the vehicle rolled
when the ignition key was in the “on” position, the subsequent
system damage would have caused the key to get stuck in that
position.” “This, we were
advised, can be practically demonstrated in any manual gear vehicle
by releasing the clutch when the engine is running, with an engaged
gear, when the said vehicle is stationary. The lorry in question is
stationary,” Mukigi said in his report. Andrew Njenga
Nganga, an assessor hired by APA said he found the vehicle hanging on
a rock nearly 100 metres down the cliff but his testimony did not
clarify whether the truck had gotten there deliberately or
accidentally. Had Ngite and the
Fuels Trading Company given evidence that it was an accident, APA
would be left with the burden of proving fraud. Justice Tuiyott's
ruling sends a warning to investigators as to how dearly the
courts consider privacy as guaranteed by the Constitution, and is an
indication that cases can collapse if due process is not followed in
obtaining confidential data such as phone records.