I’m a fan of the English language. What it lacks in vibrancy and colour, such as you’d find in Kiswahili and our own local languages, it more than makes up for in its ability to adapt and adopt. Here are some examples to show how English adopts, taking in words from other languages and making them its own. Panga, loot, thug, bungalow, déjà vu — all these words are in the English dictionary, and their meaning in English is exactly the same as that from the languages they came from. Panga — we all know where that comes from. Loot, thug and bungalow are Hindu words. And déjà vu is French through and through. I can’t think of another language that can pluck from and plonk in words from elsewhere, and still maintain its linguistic integrity. Now let us look at English’s ability to adapt to its surroundings. In America, they call a scone a biscuit, and what you, me, and the English call a biscuit, in the States, they call that a cookie. What I find fascinating about this is we’re using different English words to describe the same things but we’re all speaking the same language. But by far, I’m an even bigger fan of the humour one finds in the English language. Nowhere does one find more of this humour than in its idioms. Idioms are figurative phrases but their origins, once upon a time, had a literal meaning. Understanding where the phrases originated, their backstory, helps one better understand the idiom. And so, I’ve compiled a short list of idioms, accompanied by what they mean and their interesting origins. First up is, ‘Straight from the horse’s mouth’. This means to get information from the most reliable source. This idiom is said to have its origins in the 1900s, when horse buyers determined a horse’s age by examining its teeth. It’s also why you don’t ‘look a gift horse in the mouth,’ as inspecting a gift is considered bad manners. ‘Get someone’s goat.’ This is to make someone annoyed or angry. The expression comes from a tradition in horse racing. Thought to have a calming effect on high-strung racing thoroughbreds, a goat would be placed in the horse’s stall the night before a race. Unscrupulous ne’re-do-wells, however, would then steal the goat (get the horse’s goat), in an effort to upset the horse so that it would lose the race. ‘Barking up the wrong tree,’ means pursuing a wrong course of action. This phrase comes from hunting, referring to when a hunting dog would literally bark at the bottom of the wrong tree, unaware that its prey had already escaped by leaping onto another tree. ‘Cost an arm and a leg’ means very expensive. The story goes that back in the 18th century, famous people, such as George Washington, would have their portraits done without certain limbs showing, as showing the limbs in the painting cost more. To ‘turn a blind eye’ is to wilfully ignore unwanted information. This phrase is said to originate with Admiral Horatio Nelson, an 18th century British flag officer in the British Navy, who, it is alleged, looked through his telescope using his blind eye to avoid seeing signals from his superior telling him to withdraw from battle. Just goes to show, everything in life, a person, a situation, what’s said and done, has a backstory. And often the story behind something is more interesting the ‘something’ that’s right in front of you.