ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has called for the formation of a commission of inquiry to unravel those behind mega scams, including the importation of contraband goods. Mudavadi yesterday said President Uhuru Kenyatta is only scratching the surface and has not gone deeper in the fight against corruption. The NASA co-principal said a judicial inquiry is the only way to reveal the corruption network, which he said is deeply rooted in government. “I can tell you for free that the President is barely scratching the surface. The rot goes much deeper and the mastermind is buried below the proxies,” Mudavadi told the Star in an interview. Read: Mr President, ban sugar imports and barons will be history He said recommendations will inform policies to revive collapsed industries, which he attributed to massive corruption and importation of contraband goods. “It will give us remedial actions other than unravelling the graft kingpins, the evidence and penalties to be applied,” Mudavadi said. He said the inquiry should be made public for the culprits to be known. “It should be an inquiry that is devoid of witch-hunt. Every leader and businessperson must be held responsible for what they do,” Mudavadi said. He said the commission will reveal whether those importing contraband sugar are the same cartels behind the collapse of local factories. Mudavadi said the cartels are pushing for privatisation of the industries out of selfish interests. “You can’t get there through criminal prosecutions alone,” Mudavadi said. The former Sabatia MP said only a public inquiry can come up with long-term solutions, including proper legislation to protect Kenyans against crafty entrepreneurs and rogue government officials. “Kenyans want to establish the impact of all these criminal activities on their health, environment and economy. The police won’t go beyond investigations and prosecutions,” he said. Mudavadi cited the Goldenberg scandal, which was probed by the Bosire Judicial Commission. Mudavadi was Finance minister then. “In asking the President to set up the commission, I’m encouraging him to dig below the surface. I speak from experience,” he said. More: Politics useless in war on illegal sugar trade, Kiraithe says after Duale claims Click here for
the latest political news