A section of leaders from Rift Valley allied to the Deputy President William
Ruto yesterday claimed that Raila Odinga is masterminding the ongoing eviction
of settlers in the Mau Forest to undermine him. Staunch Ruto ally and Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen claimed
Raila was working with unnamed government officials to scuttle the Deputy
President’s 2022 bid. "There are some people who recently joined the government through the
backdoor and are working with some government officials to remove people from
Mau," Murkomen said. "In their memorandum which led to a peace deal, one of the agenda items was to
evict people from Mau so that they create a wedge between the settlers and
their leaders," the Elgeyo Marakwet senator claimed. Also read: Mau evictions could hurt DP His statement drew a swift rejoinder from National Assembly Minority leader John
Mbadi who accused Murkomen of "making up things in a bid to shield
Ruto". "No one should take Murkomen seriously. He is fond of making up things. We
are telling him and his boss, the DP, to deal with the issue. They are in
government and Mau eviction is their work," said Mbadi, also the ODM party
chairman. Murkomen was speaking to evictees at Koitoben in Melelo ward, Narok South
constituency, yesterday. He was accompanied by nine other MPs. They included Bomet senator Christopher Langat, MPs Johana Ngeno
(Emurua Dikir), Liz Chelule (Nakuru County), Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central),
Beatrice Kones (Bomet East), Joyce Korir (Bomet County), Nelson Koech (Belgut),
Japhet Kiptergech (Buret) and Gideon Kosgey (Chepalungu). Also in attendance
was Bomet Deputy Governor Hillary Barchok. They asked those evicted to return to the forest. "I don’t want to hear anybody saying that he has been sent by the government
to remove people from their farms. I am speaking on behalf of the government," Murkomen
said. He promised that the government would supply the victims with building
materials so that they can return to the forest from today. “We will
return soon to supervise the process of returning to your homes,” he said. Related: Narok leaders oppose 'cruel' Mau evictions Mau Forest, the biggest water catchment area in the region, has been a hot
potato for years. In 2010, Ruto opposed Raila's efforts to restore
the forest, riding on the issue to alienate him [Raila] from most voters in Rift Valley
in the 2013 General Election. Raila, then Prime Minister charged with coordination of government functions,
had been tasked by a Cabinet resolution to spearhead the restoration of the
water tower. Although critical to the survival of many rivers that support thousands of
livelihoods from the highlands down to Lake Victoria, the Mau Forest has been
reduced into patches through settlements and wanton destruction overseen by
previous governments. In some areas of the Mau, the thick forest has been replaced by grasslands
dotted with tree stumps or neat fields of wheat and maize. Truckloads of pricey
charcoal and hardwood have for years left the forest. In June, a government task force on the
state of forests presented its report to DP Ruto, revealing how extensive
logging had depleted Kenya’s forest cover. A logging moratorium is in place. Last month, the government embarked
on a national tree planting exercise launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta, but it seems
to have fizzled out. Also read: State targets 40,000 people in second phase of Mau evictions The evictions are part of the recommendations of the task force, although politicians
have not been enthusiastic about its implementation, instead minting political capital
out of the disaster. It remains to be seen whether the plan will be sacrificed at the altar of
politics. Yesterday, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko was defiant. "We are not turning back on this issue. It is important that those playing
politics with the Mau stop because their actions are not just killing human
beings; they are also killing tourism and other economic activities that depend
on the forest," Tobiko said. Murkomen said the National Assembly and Senate will tomorrow summon
Narok County Commissioner George Natembea over the violation of the rights of
the people of Mau. "As leaders we want to know where the commissioner was drawing the powers
from by evicting settlers in an inhumane way," Murkomen said. He asked why the commissioner continued removing people from their homes
even after Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot and Bomet East MP Beatrice Kones
visited the area on Wednesday, ostensibly sent by the government. "The law is clear that when you are serving the citizens, you should respect
them regardless of your position," Murkomen said. During a press briefing on Monday, Natembea had warned politicians
against politicising the Mau issue. "I will not be intimidated by these politicians. I will continue with this phase
of evictions which targets 40,000 people," he said. However, Belgut MP Nelson Koech said the settlers should stay put because
they have genuine land titles. "If 2022 is about the Mau issue, do not
play with the lives of the people," Koech said, invoking succession politics. See: I will not evict Mau Forest settlers if NASA wins poll, says Raila Click here for the latest political news 