Kitui county has devoted Sh2.9 billion - 30 per cent of its budget - to health. Governor Charity Ngilu yesterday said her administration will focus on the wellbeing of residents. The county budget for this financial year is Sh11.7 billion. Sh2.9 billion would be 24.8 per cent and 30 per cent would translate into Sh3.5 billion. It is, therefore, not clear how Ngilu arrived at the 30 per cent figure. She said the funds make Kitui one of the counties that have surpassed the Abuja Declaration that recommends at least 15 per cent. In April 2001, African Union member countries pledged in Abuja to improve health outcomes through adequate funding. Ngilu said quality healthcare is part of her five-pillar manifesto and will not allow inefficient services. She spoke at the Kitui County Referral Hospital. She unveiled 322 health workers hired by the County Public Service Board and three Cuban doctors. The staff were deployed to health facilities across the county. Health chief officer Richard Muthoka said Sh300 million was used to hire the staff. “I send you there with my full support and blessings so you help me achieve my second pillar in the manifesto on whose basis Kitui residents elected me,” Ngilu said. “I put a lot of premium on the health of our people. I must ensure all systems are functioning properly in the sector.” She said a better workforce will boost services, especially in remote areas where people have suffered for many years. The county chief urged all healthcare workers to serve with “civility and work diligently to ensure residents receive the best of care”. The county will stock adequate drugs and other medical supplies in all its 237 health facilities. “We can’t develop or go far as a county if we don’t have healthy people. I’ve now seen the professionals who will help me realise that dream for Kitui people. Do that which appertains to your call of duty,” she told the health personnel. The county also launched a new set of medical laboratory equipment — X-ray and ECG (Electrocardiography) machines, ultrasound and CT scanners — to be used by the referral hospital. Muthoka said the new equipment will improve lab services and diagnosis from the current 40 per cent to 90. He said Sh70 million was used to buy the equipment and Sh400 million spent on medicines and other non-pharmaceuticals. Governor Ngilu also launched the polio vaccination campaign, which runs from July 11-15. She appealed to parents with under-fives to ensure their children are immunised.