Professionals should help the government fight runaway corruption and promote ethics and integrity in public service as they drive agenda and policies. Public Service CS Margaret Kobia said this on Friday, adding professionals should be in the forefront of advocating against unethical practices in public service. The CS spoke at Safari Park hotel in Nairobi County while closing a two-day convention of the Association of Professional Societies in East Africa (APSEA). APSEA is an umbrella body that brings together 28 professional associations in the country. "Services offered by most of the professionals in APSEA play a role in actualising many corrupt transactions," Kobia said. "APSEA should take responsibility by ensuring its members endorse strict adherence to professional ethics and that appropriate disciplinary measures are taken to deal with errant ones." Kobia asked the organisation to partner with the government on educational and advocacy campaigns to promote the principles of leadership, ethics and integrity. While noting that professionals play a critical role in governance and the nation's development, she promised partnerships and support for the organisation to realise its goals. APSEA chairperson Irene Wanyoike pledged support for the government's fight against corruption and the promotion of ethics in public service. Wanyoike delivered the resolutions of the two meetings to the CS for implementation. "APSEA will champion and advocate the full operationalisation of Chapter Six of the Constitution, as well as identify and propose existing gaps, limitations and shortcomings on leadership and integrity issues, " she said. She also noted support for the lifestyle audits of public officers, as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta, noting they will improve governance and inspire confidence in the country's commitment to integrity. Related: [VIDEO] Kenya will slay corruption dragon under my watch, says AG Kihara Also read: Corrupt judges blocking Kenya's anti-corruption push - DPP Haji Click here for the latest political news