The decision by ODM to give former Cabinet minister Ochillo Ayacko a direct ticket for the October 8 Migori senatorial by-election has been met with mixed reactions. On Friday, Ayacko was picked out of eight candidates and offered a direct ticket. On his social media post, Ayacko said he was grateful to party leader Raila Odinga, the party and Migori residents as his faith in them “was absolute.” “Let us move Migori forward without bitterness. My worthy competitors thanks for your fair play,” he posted. The party said in a statement, “As per the party rules, the National Elections Board has settled on Ochillo Ayacko to be the ODM candidate for Migori senatorial seat.” The seat fell vacant after former Senator Ben Okello succumbed to throat cancer. Read:Ayacko gets 44 out 70 electoral college votes in Migori senator race The party said due to financial and time constraints, they chose to give a direct ticket to one candidate. The decision came only hours after the Court of Appeal in Kisumu threw out an election petition filed by Ayacko challenging Governor Okoth Obado’s win. Ayacko ran for governor as an independent candidate and lost to Obado. Justice Stephen Gatembu slapped Ayacko with a Sh4.5 million fine, saying there was no sufficient evidence to prove irregularities and bribery allegations. On July 6 during the burial of Okello, Raila urged Ayacko and Obado to shake hands, leading to speculation that the former minister was set to get the ODM senator ticket. The by-election is set for October 8. But Ayacko is faced with an uphill task as seven other candidates have said they will be on the ballot. Those dropped by the party include former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno, former Migori MP John Pesa, former Mathare and EALA MP Ochieng Mbeo, former Migori speaker Gordon Ogolla, businessman Edddy Oketch, Okello’s eldest son Willis and his cousin Mark Okundi. “I disagree with the party’s decision. I will be in the ballot on October 8,” Otieno told the Star. See:ODM rejects delegates’ choice of Ochilo Ayacko for Migori ticket Click here for the latest political news