Landowners will soon be paid for the parcels used in the second phase of the standard gauge railway. Surveyors and valuers from the Lands ministry, the National Land Commission and the Kenya Railways have been deployed to sites along the Nairobi-Naivasha project. Kenya Railways MD Atanas Maina said yesterday land acquisition and compensation will be hastened. “The professionals will be on the ground for the next two weeks to facilitate awards and final payments to owners with official and proper documentation,” he said in a statement. This follows a directive from President Uhuru Kenyatta to finalise the process by the end of this month to pave the way for completion of the project. Uhuru wants the second phase launched on May 31 next year. The Mombasa-Nairobi phase was launched on a similar date last year. On June 23, Uhuru inspected the route. He said the progress made was commendable but added that some key areas required immediate improvement. Top on his mind was land acquisition and compensation, which he demanded fast-tracked and completed within a month to enable the contractor, China Road and Bridge Corporation, to go on with construction unhindered. Uhuru said he would like to use the Madaraka Express to attend Madaraka Day celebrations in Kajiado next day. He told the contractor to complete it on time. The President spoke at Kyang’ombe (DK2 project site) in Nairobi where he witnessed the installation of bridge girders across the Nairobi National Park. This is a critical part of the SGR extension. Kenya Railways is responsible for determining and surveying the land required for the project. The Lands ministry provides a pricing index for the identified area for compulsory acquisition, while the NLC values parcels, gives awards and pays owners. The second SGR phase is estimated to cost Sh155.5 billion. The Mombasa-Nairobi phase cost about Sh327 billion and covered 472 kilometres. It was riddled with claims of double payments. At least Sh28 billion went to compensation. The compensation cost from the Nairobi-Naivasha route is expected to be lower.