A section of Kenyans on Twitter have criticized the decision by Kenya Urban Roads Authority (KURA) to arrest illegal car wash operators. The authority stated that the exercise was meant to clear and protect the roads. “Ongoing crackdown on illegal car washes along Western Ring Roads. The exercise is meant to clear the road corridors and protect Road furniture,” tweeted KURA. In a photo posted by the authority, vehicles were also seen being towed. Ma3Route told the agency to relocate the car washes instead of arresting people trying to make a living. “I do not support this at all! Why arrest them? Charge them in court but don't cart them away like criminals. They're only trying to make a living! Meanwhile, can you fix all the roads under your watch!?” Benson Mutua questioned why the agency was towing the vehicles instead of just dealing with the car wash operators. “This doesn't make any sense at all. Why tow people's vehicles! How is one supposed to know that the cars washes are illegal?” asked Ben Nguthu. Shyro Kiki mocked how KURA was unable to maintain city roads. “KURA you are laughable. You have been unable to maintain city roads and are now going for people who are out there trying to earn a living? How about you fix the roads first.” @jaeybeew stated that the agency should focus on constructing and repairing roads instead of wasting resources on non-issues. Kabuba tweeted: “These youth have decided to earn money the clean, hard way and you're out here just pushing young men and women out into the streets with no alternative. To do what? Become thieves?! Useless humans.” “These car washes do not interfere in any way with traffic or road infrastructure. These are young men and women doing an honest job,” said Kibuchi Mwai. Shakur Abd stated that it was a crime to earn a living in Kenya. “Youths are jobless, they decide to operate roadside car wash to avoid being involved in crimes for money, then, comes Officers and Kura arresting them. Mnataka waende wa supply NYS (You want them to supply to NYS) Sun and moon to be paid billions?” @BernyK6 added: “Go and harass tax thieves who have reduced these youths to paupers.What a shame that we have cops going after innocent youths and robbers.” Click here for the latest political news 