Six players have been dropped as the national women's volleyball team technical bench whittled down the provisional squad from 28 to 22 ahead of the World Championship set for September 29 to October 20 in Japan. The team is currently on non residential training at the Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani under the watchful eyes of Japheth Munala and Josp Barasa. The six players are Kenya Commercial Bank trio of Eglay Kuloba, Lincy Jeruto and Nancy Mulonza, DCI's duo of Jane Mumbua and Josephine Wafula and Bungoma County's Caren Cheruto. Munala said apart from considering other factors, financial constraints was the main reason for dropping the six players. “We know very well national team players are entitled to allowances ranging from fare to lunch. However, since the federation is facing financial constraints , we had to whittle the squad guided by other factors. As the technical bench we would have wished to have the provisional squad intact but it is what it is,” said Munala who double up as the champions Kenya Pipeline coach. Munala at the same time tipped the fast raising quartet of Jemima Siangu, ,Lorine Chebet, Sharon Chepchumba and Caroline Sirengo to make the final list if their current performance at the training sessions are anything to go by. He said, “These players are fresh from School and they are proving a thing or two in the training. They are impressive in their own way and I wouldn't be surprised if they make it to the final cut,” He added: “So far the training is going on well and we can only get better as the days goes by. We intend to break the camp on Friday to allow players to turn out to their respective clubs ahead of the July 20-22 national league cum Mombasa County Speaker's Cup event at the Changamwe grounds.” Provisional squad:Noel Murambi,Leonida Kasaya, Violet Makuto,Triza Atuka, Agripina Kundu,Celestine Nafula, Christine Siwa,Janet Wanja, Veronica Tanui, Jemima Siangu,Mercy Moim(Captain) ,Everlyne Makuto, Edith Mukuvilani, Emmaculate Chemtai,Jane Wacu,Lorine Chebet,Sharon Chepchumba, Yvonne Wavinya,Joy Lusenaka, Elizabeth Wanyama, Pamela Masaisai, Milgrene Lituvula and Caroline Sirengo. 