The Nairobi liquor licensing board has raised concern over the ease with which underage people, especially students, are accessing liquor through the internet. The board has therefore called for the amendment of the Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Act of 2014 to regulate online liquor sales. The County Alcoholic Drinks Control and Licensing Board said the lacuna in law poses challenges in curbing underage drinking and sale of counterfeit products. Board chairman Kennedy Odhiambo noted that authenticating liquor products sold online has also been a challenge since the Act lacks provisions on this. "It has emerged that some secondary school students are ordering drinks online during school trips," he told journalists on Tuesday. Statistics indicate that sales of beer, liquor and wine grew by 32.7 percent in 2017. There are dozens of online platforms through which anyone can order alcohol in Nairobi, with some delivering thecommodities in less than half an hour. The Board said further research is needed to determine the proportion of minors who buy alcohol online. Odhiambo said this will inform the enforcement agencies of existing policies and direct the creation of new policies to reduce online access to alcohol by youths. The Nairobi City County Alcoholic Drinks Act largely borrows from the Alcoholic Drinks Control Act of 2010, popularly known as the Mututho law. The legislation concentrated on reducing drinking hours in conventional outlets such as bars and pubs but ignored the online segment. In addition to its unregulated nature, online liquor sales pose difficulties for authorities to contain sale of counterfeit products. In June, Nacada reported that 4.9 million Kenyans aged 15 – 65 years were abusing at least one drug or other substance. Nacada said that Eastern, Nairobi, Coast and Western regions recorded increasing trends of alcohol and drug abuse. The authority raised the concern that secondary schools are not drug-free environments and that bars and dens are located near schools. Read: 4.9m Kenyans abusing alcohol and drugs, high schools a haven - Nacada Related: The sober truth about Kiambu’s youth alcohol solution Click here for the latest political news