MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto have read 2022 politics in the recent arrest of KPLC officials, saying the war on graft has taken a political angle. MPs Nelson Koech (Belgut), Benard Koros (Sigowet-Soin) and David Sankok (nominated) wondered why the arrests are “leaning” towards one one side. Addressing a press conference at Parliament Buildings yesterday, the lawmakers said last week’s arrest of senior officers at Kenya Power was just the tip of the iceberg. “Arrests should not be targeted at particular areas. It is all leaning to one side and all these are about 2022 politics,” Koech said. “I am telling you to look at the bigger picture; individuals are just collateral, the bigger picture is 2022.” The MPs were reacting to the Friday arrest of Kenya Power managing director Ken Tarus, his predecessor Ben Chumo and eight other senior managers over impropriety in acquisition of faulty transformers and irregular award of contracts. Also charged was company secretary Beatrice Meso over the supply of substandard transformers through a company known as Muwa Trading Company Limited. “How true are we to Article 50, 2 (a) if a contingent travelling in over 20 cars, all armed, dramatises an arrest of a parastatal’s company secretary who has shown no intention to resist arrest?” Koech. Koros said the arrest are laced with a lot of mischief adding the Kenya Power officials were subjected to unnecessary embarrassment in front of their families. “We are not happy with what is going on; we are reading some mischief in it,” the Sigowet-Soin lawmaker said. The legislators expressed support for the ongoing war on corruption, but demanded the same be conducted within the law and not politicised. “We are not against the war on corruption, but let us be fair on the treatment of the suspects. Let us not politicise the issue of corruption,” Sankok said. The Belgut MP said he will sponsor an amendment of the National Police Act to restrain police from holding those arrested on Friday throughout the weekend. “To cure the gap that is being exploited by enforcement organs to violate the rights of arrested persons especially arrested on a Friday, I am making a legislative proposal to compel the arresting authorities to grant police bond not as choice but as a right,”  Koech said.