DP William Ruto has hit back at critics who accuse him of 'loitering around' the country with no agenda. Ruto said no one should ask him why he keeps touring different parts of the country, as he was doing his job as deputy president. It is not clear who he was referring to but ODM leader Raila Odinga recently criticised Ruto for engaging in early 2022 campaigns. This was in reference to Ruto's weekend tours which is argued as likely to put the country in a campaign mood before the dust of the 2017 poll settles. More on this: Raila to Ruto: 'Your presidency is not guaranteed, stop loitering' Also read: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact "..na mtu asiulize kwanini nimekuja Vanga, mbona Ruto sijui ameenda wapi? Hii ni kazi ya naibu wa rais. Mimi nimechanguliwa kama naibu wa rais na kazi ya naibu ndio hii nafanya," he said. (Nobody should ask why I have come to Vanga, why is Ruto going here and there?. This is the work of deputy president and I'm doing exactly that) Speaking in Vanga grounds in Kwale County, on Saturday, Ruto said he was not a cook nor a salesman that should be caged. "...mimi si mpishi, mimi si watchman wala siuzi nyama, siuzi makaa. Mimi ni mtu wakupanga mambo ya maendeleo ya Kenya nikishirikiana na rais," he said. (I am not a cook or a watchman, nor do I sell meat, I do not sell charcoal. I am a person who does development for Kenya together with the President) "Hii kazi nafanya ni ile nimechanguliwa kufanya. Wewe kama uko na kazi yako fanya yako wacha nifanye yangu. Na mimi sijalalamkia mtu yoyote kwa hiviyo uslilalamke kwa kazi yangu," he said. (I am doing the work that i was elected to do. If you have your work, do itand let me also do mine. I am not complaining and anyone should not complain) The DP further said the government will continue to work with all leaders irrespective of their political persuasions to implement its development agenda.  DP William Ruto during a public meeting at Vanga, Kwale County./DPPS Ruto said it is through unity and team work that the government can implement its Big Four agenda-manufacturing, access to healthcare, affordable housing and food security. "Some leaders should not be scared in the ongoing unity and team work among Jubilee and Opposition leaders on matters of development because we are embracing all Kenyans whether they voted for us or not,” he said. He said time for elections and politics was over, saying it was an opportunity for leaders to focus their energies on matters of development. CHIEFS WARNED The Deputy President, at the same time, warned chiefs and their assistants that they risked being arrested if they failed to ensure all parents in areas under their jurisdictions failed to take their children to school. He said the government was investing a lot of resources in the development of education, urging parents to ensure they took their children to school. "Chiefs who fail to ensure parents take their children to schools will be arrested. We have invested a lot of resources in the sector and parents should take advantage of the situation," Ruto said. Ruto said the government has set aside Sh500 million for phase two and three of the last mile electrification project in Kwale County. “Our focus is development. We want to engage in projects that can improve the lives of the people,” he said. Also present were MPs Suleiman Dori (Msamweni), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Stanley Muthama (Lamu West), Sharrif Athman (Lamu East), Gertrude Mbeyu (Women Rep, Kilifi), Lydia Haika (Women Rep, Taita Taveta), Christine Zawadi (nominated), Hiribae Buya (Galole), Owen Baya (Kilifi North) and Aisha Jumwa (Malindi. Others were Jones Mwaruma (Taita Taveta), Kazim Tandaza (Matuga), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango), Andrew Mwadime (Mwatate) and Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mungaro (Lands).  DP William Ruto and Coast leaders at Vanga on Saturday, July 7. /DPPS FRUITS OF HANDSHAKE The leaders said no amount of intimidation can stop them from working with the Government for the sake of development. Jumwa said Coast leaders were simply embracing the handshake that was initiated by President Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga. “I am working with Deputy President William Ruto because my party leader Raila Odinga embraced handshake with President Kenyatta," she said. "He (Raila) said it’s over; it’s water under the bridge, we need to work together and focus on the future. That’s what we are doing and there should be no problem with this." Jumwa said Coast leaders have resolved to support the government as the only way to address the challenges facing the people. "We are tired of leaders engaging in empty rhetoric at the expense of development. That’s why we want to work with those who are committed to solving problems facing our people," she said. Jumwa, formerly a die-hard ODM supporter, earned herself the nickname 'mama radar' after she recently joined Ruto's camp. She had been termed an iron lady for tough talk and influence in the Coast region while campaigning for Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Her move has made ODM, her party, to initiate a process to remove her from the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission. Also read: I'm ready for you, Jumwa tells Junet on plans to remove her from PSC Jumwa was first to openly declare support for Ruto in Taita Taveta county early this year. She is reportedly planning to succeed Governor Amason Kingi and will likely be key to Ruto's campaigns as she is a crowd puller. Click here for the latest political news