Dreams are ridiculous, yet fascinating. Ridiculous because normally, we get ideas of a future that is in stack contrast with our current reality. For instance, someone in the slum gets the idea of becoming a multi-millionaire. It’s a crazy thought for where they are; how can it ever happen? That’s the ridiculous in dreams. In your mind’s eyes, you’re shown pictures that make no sense in your current context. Also, Dreams are fascinating. Somehow events string up to ensure that the person in the slum with a wealth idea eventually becomes a multi-millionaire. Now, that’s the power of a dream. It cannot be denied because it happens. These rags to riches stories abound. It is always a joy to see people evolve into their dreams. But, how do they do it? Belief. That’s the first step. The person in the slum, living in severe poverty, got the crazy idea that, despite her environmental realities, she could become a multi-millionaire – and she believed it. That’s all it took. Belief. The one who moved from the slum to wealth was not the only one who got the wealth idea. Ten people can get the idea, but if only one person believes, then it would work for the one. Belief makes the difference. We have an interesting design. We’re equipped to birth ideas. We can think it and make it happen – that’s our design. The mind is a powerful machine, designed to deliver what you want. Napoleon Hill, bestselling author of Think and Grow Rich, said: “You can be anything you want to be, if only you believe with sufficient conviction and act in accordance with your faith; for whatever the mind can conceive and believe, the mind can achieve.” Do you believe your goal is possible? Do you truly believe you can get what you want? Do you believe the crazy ideas you have? Do you believe the crazy ideas can happen? Normally, greatness starts with a crazy idea. Ask Barack Obama. What you believe shapes your expectations. If you truly believe, you will become a multi-millionaire, your attitude would change. You would start looking out for opportunities to manifest your dream because you expect it. Your expectations determine what you reach for – it determines the goals you pursue. What you expect to happen determines your choices and actions. Success isn’t impossible. Your goal is achievable. You can rise above every challenge to achieve your wildest dream. You can soar above limits. It is possible. Only believe. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com