Contraband goods get into Kenya because of porous borders and the laxity of officials, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i told the parliamentary security committee on Thursday. Matiang'i said they have made these and other mistakes but that they have learnt their lessons. He promised to table a report on investigations into the illegal importation of goods such as sugar, rice and cooking oil. Read: Matiang’i promises ‘clean-up’ at borders to end illegal imports Matiang'i noted that the government has to work hard to overcome challenges in the importation of goods. "We work hard but criminals also work hard. A repeated mistake is bad but we have learnt from our mistakes," he said, adding government agencies must coordinate for improvements. "I do not want to pass judgement on public institutions that we created. Leaders can make mistakes," he said. The Minister said they will pay attention to areas including pre-shipment inspections, following agreements with other countries on standards. Matiang'i explained that the ministry works with other agencies when contraband goods are sighted. "[In the case of sugar, for example], we don't seize it until KeBS and KRA arrive. They tell us what is wrong with it," he said. "By the time we conclude that we cannot release the goods, we have consulted. There are some goods that we would like to destroy but we have to go through the courts." The CS said, however, that under "extreme circumstances", they destroy goods to save lives. "I would not say that we act outside the law ... [In Mombasa, for example], we destroyed the ship carrying drugs," he said. So far, 72 people have been arrested and charged in court in the crackdown on contraband products. Matiang’i did not give details on investigations “due to the sensitivity of the matter” and said he can only do that in camera. Last week, the CS told a joint parliamentary that the fertiliser, cooking oil, fruit juices and tomato ketchup that are in the market could have heavy metals that are harmful to human beings. More on this: Matiang’i : Cooking oil, ketchup, juices unsafe Also read: Matiang'i at war with contraband traders selling 'chemicals, poison' to Kenyans Click here for the latest political news