The government will unveil a new policy on the management of water by the end of the year as part of reforms to ensure equal distribution. Water CS Simon Chelugui on Friday said the policy will guide the realisation of the government’s target to increase access to 80 per cent by 2022. The policy, which is still being drafted, will inform the government about priority projects to be undertaken. Chelugui said the current plan is outdated as it was drafted in 1999. A new policy is needed to guide the implementation of the Constitution and the Water Act, 2016. He said the policy will be forwarded to Cabinet by September. It will advise on water harvesting plans and storage capacity to meet rising demand. “This will help towards the realisation of water security to promote sustainable development in line with the Big Four agenda,” Chelugui said. The policy is also expected to lay the ground for the realisation of the human right to clean water and sanitation services by creating effective and efficient institutions. Chelugui spoke during a consultative forum with the Council of Governors on the national water policy and strategies at Sawela Lodge in Naivasha. He called on counties to work closely with the ministry to avoid unnecesary losses by ensuring that only qualified staff are deployed to work in the sector. The CS said the government has transformed the Kenya Water Institute (KEWI) and aligned it to the changing environment to offer courses geared towards ensuring effective water planning and management. The council’s water and environment committee chairman Kiraitu Murungi said poor coordination and inadequate funding of water projects is derailing access to the commodity for all. The Meru governor said lack of consultation while investing in water boards is among the challenges that may hinder the achievement of the 80 per cent access to all by 2022. The ministry’s Chief Administrative Secretary Winnie Guchu praised the new policy, saying it will address the demand for water and sanitation and outline practical steps to achieve access for all.