After a shameful exit in the Cecafa Kagame Cup, Kenyan champions Gor Mahia return to Tanzania to face Yanga in the Caf Confederations Cup Pool ‘D’ return match tomorrow at National Stadium Dar-es-salaam. Gor taught the 27-time Tanzanian champions football lessons a week ago at Kasarani Stadium, raking in four unanswered goals which placed them second in the pool behind Algerian-based USM Alger with five points and will be out to enrich their chances of qualifying to the next round. Gor have successfully overcame fatigue, resulting from fixture congestion and barely three days after silencing an experienced Posta Rangers 3-1 to sail to the SportPesa Shield Cup quarter finals, Dylan Kerr’s boys will have their lethargy severely tested by Yanga who have reportedly shipped in two quality players from DRC Congo. Under the stewardship of Noel Mwandila, Yanga paid bitterly for off the field wrangles in the first leg encounter, where several senior players declined to board the plane to Nairobi in protest for better offers and new contracts. A solution has since been found and new players registered for the clash. Mwandila will approach the match aware that a draw or succumbing to Gor will see them exit the continental tournament. Yanga sit at the bottom of the pool with a point while Rwandese giants Rayon Sports, who are third carry their two points, to Algeria to face USM Alger. Kerr clearly showed the significance of the Yanga tie by fielding his second string squad against Rangers in a midweek duel, where he openly admitted to have handed the senior players a two-day off to refresh for the tie. Ahead of the match, Kerr disclosed that he had a selection puzzle after talisman Jacques Tuyisenge shrugged off an injury suffered in the ‘Mashemeji Derby’ and Kelvin Omondi’s form, which saw him bag a brace against Rangers.The two are set to fight for the starting roles alongside Francis Mustafa and Ephrem Guikan. He is also facing a selection dilemma in the defence as Wellington Ochieng and Joash Onyango returned from injury and suspension respectively. Despite having the luxury to select the best from the available players, Kerr will miss right back Karim Nizigiyimana, who resumed training last week after 11 months on the sidelines. “Tuyisenge is fully fit and Omondi has recently shown why I should field him. I have Mustafa and Guikan and I think it’s a big challenge for me to decide who to start. Karim is back although I don’t want to rush him to play.He suffered a career threatening injury and he will play in two weeks time. I gave the senior players two days to rest and I expect them to be fit for the match.” A win for Gor and pool leaders USM Alger who will host Rwandese will see the two proceed to the next round