Kenya Power and Lighting Company Board has convened a crisis meeting to fill positions of managers who have been arrested over a Sh4.5 billion scam. The company’s former MD Ben Chumo, general manager for regional coordination Peter Mwicigi and legal secretary Beatrice Meso were arrested on Saturday morning by the DCI officers. Managing director Ken Tarus is expected to avail himsefl in court today. Also to be charged is network management general manager Benson Muriithi, business strategy manager Peter Mungai, commercial services manager Joshua Mutua and the general manager for human resource and administration Abubakar Swaleh. Board chairman Maalim Mahboub yesterday told the Star the 7am meeting will pick new people to replace the officers in an acting role. “Everyone is presumed innocent until proved otherwise but because the institution must continue to operate normally, we will name people in acting positions as we wait for the cases to take its course,” Mahboub said . Read:DPP Haji orders arrest of Kenya Power CEO, senior managers over tenders The arrested officials are expected to be charged in court today. They are facing charges in relation to the award of labour and transport tenders. The suspects will also face charges relating to faulty transformers. Other charges include abuse of office and failure to comply with procurement procedures. It was a night of drama on Saturday as DCI officers hunted for top officials wanted over the scam. Flying Squad and Special Crimes Prevention Unit officers were deployed to hunt those who had not been arrested. Chumo was the first suspect to be arrested when he was picked up from his home in Kileleshwa’s Riara estate at about 11.45pm on Friday. He was taken to Muthaiga police station where he was locked up. Like other suspects, the Salaries and Remuneration Commission chair nominee, was ferried in the boot of the DCI subarus. Meso was second to be arrested. She was picked up from her home along Kiambu road. She was asleep when police arrived at about 1.30am. The officers allowed her to change from sleeping garments. She put on a trouser and a jacket and accompanied the officers to Muthaiga police station where she was locked up. The husband was allowed to follow the police car to the station. He witnessed as Meso was locked up. Next was Mwichigi who was picked up from his home at the Thika Greens estate. By 4am at the doors of Tarus in Pipeline estate. Tarus was not at home and could not be reached on phone. He is yet to be arrested. Mungai surrendered on Saturday. Also See:Kenya Power ex-CEO Ben Chumo to be charged on corruption claims Click here for the latest political news 