Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga yesterday said he was ready for a rematch with Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti after the Court of Appeal ruled the polls be repeated.  Sweating in Kisumu’s sweltering heat with a broad smile across his face, Magwanga praised the judges for nullifying the election.  He said the will of the people had prevailed.  “I want to tell my opponent that if he is man enough, then let us meets at the ballot. The electorate will decide,” Magwanga said.  Yesterday judges Philip Waki, Fatuma Sichale and Otieno Odek upheld the decision of judge Joseph Karanja that IEBC failed to conduct a free and fair election and the election of Awiti did not conform with the law.  In a ruling read by Sichale on behalf of the three-judge bench, she said the trial judge made findings and conclusion which the appellate court cannot interfere with.  Delivering the judgment, Sichale said the appeal lacked merit and the election was free and fair.  The appeal was dismissed with Sh5 million costs down from Sh6 million.  If Awiti decides not to move to the Supreme Court, then Homa Bay residents will head to the ballot. The Star could not immediately establish whether he is considering going to the Supreme Court.  Awiti, who was not present during the ruling, had moved to the Appeal court seeking to have the annulment of his victory by Homa Bay High Court overturned.  His victory was nullified on February 20. He said he had sufficient evidence to convince the Appellate court to quash the High Court’s verdict.  Magwanga won a petition at the High Court against Awiti’s win. Magwanga had emerged second during last year’s election.  Karanja said the IEBC had failed to ensure a free and fair election. During the appeal hearing, IEBC lawyers faulted the decision.  “He approved the outcome of a scrutiny exercise presided over by the court’s deputy registrar, who revealed the outcome had no discrepancies in more than 95 per cent of ballot papers,” lawyer Fred Orego said.  He told the court in Kisumu the ruling had no basis. Orego said Awiti was the rightful governor. He said the judge was wrong to nullify the poll just because the boxes scrutinised had no IEBC seals.  “The IEBC does not have prescribed seals. All the seals on the boxes were from the poll agency,” he said.  Awiti’s lawyers Tom Ojienda, James Orengo and Otiende Amollo said Justice Karanja used a document produced by Magwanga’s lawyers to make his judgment.  Magwanga’s lawyer Charles Kanjama dismissed the claim. He said the document was only a summary of the scrutiny and was never used.  “The evidence from the scrutiny, which showed no major discrepancies, could not be trusted. Only 90 boxes were examined, despite the court directing that 400 of them be scrutinised,” he said.  He said it was likely Awiti had accessed the ballot boxes two months before the verification and altered ballot papers in his favour.  “Most of the official forms within the ballot boxes were blank and the IEBC never presented original forms. All the forms with my client’s results were original. The IEBC hid the petitioner’s original forms and only produced photocopies — a clear sign Magwanga trounced Awiti,” Kanjama said.  Awiti’s supporters want him to proceed to the Supreme Court.  Homa Bay county IEBC returning officer Michael Kosgei announced Awiti the winner with 210,173 votes against his closest rival Magwanga (independent) who got 189,060 votes.  Awiti’s supporters led by Michael Owano urged him to head to the Supreme Court.  “We know Awiti was declared the winner genuinely and he should not stop defending his victory. I urge my governor to proceed to the Supreme Court,” Owano said.  The supporters warned Magwanga supporters against early celebrations, noting they still have an avenue to defend their victory.  Owano said they are ready to campaign for Awiti and defeat Magwanga should the county head to another election. They argued that residents of Homa Bay would vote for Awiti again if election comes. “Homa Bay is an ODM zone so nobody should expect to be governor of this county outside the party,” Owano said.