Kenya Simbas’ skipper Wilson K’Opondo face a race against fitness ahead of the Rugby World Cup qualifiers against Tunisia and Namibia next month. K’Opondo has missed matches against Morocco, Zimbabwe and the two other matches against Uganda after sustaining an a muscle injury in training. Simbas’ assistant head coach, Dominique Habimana, said they are monitoring the situation and they are hopeful K’Opondo will be fit for the final two matches of qualification. “He is undergoing rehabilitation and we hope he can start training and taking contact very soon before we make a decision on his participation,” he added. Habimana said Impala centre Leo Seje and Homeboyz hooker Philip Ikambili should be fit after missing the victories over Zimbabwe and Uganda. Ikambili suffered a concussion in the match against Morocco while Seje picked a knock against the same opponents in Casablanca a fortnight ago. “Both should be ready since they have recovered well from injuries and should be available for selection for the next matches next month,” he added. Utility back Vincent Mose has also been cleared to play after suffering a facial injury following a collision with Uganda forward Marvin Odongo. Habimana said the defence is one area they will give priority once they resume training on Saturday ahead of the two final matches. “It’s an area we have had lapses in concentration and conceded soft tries in our matches. However, with the remaining time, we will be better going forward,” he added. Habimana was delighted with the hard fought victory over Uganda which saw an improvement in the set piece and line-out. “As the forwards’ coach, I was happy we only lost one ball in the line-out and our scrum was solid.We were able to generate quick balls from the set piece,” he added. Kenya lie second on the log with 12 points—three behind champions Namibia with the overall winner of the round-robin going to the World Cup next year in Japan. The runner up heads up to the repecharge in November, where they face Germany, Hong Kong and Canada in France.