There are reports that a well-known surveyor could be taking advantage of the problems National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri (pictured) is facing to fuel negative publicity about the NLC chief. Corridors is informed that the man even met some NLC officials in Washington a few weeks back and impressed upon them to campaign for him to take over when and if Swazuri is removed from office. He has even written articles rubbishing NLC chairman in various media and is planning to send a petition to Parliament. Two weeks after the crackdown on contaminated sugar began, one of the entities implicated in the importation is reported to have transferred Sh1.4 billion from its account in a foreign bank into a sister company’s local bank account. Sleuths from the DCI are said to be curious on why a company that denies wrongdoing would suddenly transfer huge amounts of money to another. Could they be hiding something? That Kenya Power and Lighting Company was shaken by the arrest and arraignment of virtually all the senior managers is something you already know. What you don’t know is the ripple effect of that action. We are told a number of middle-level managers and some junior staff have resigned from the company for fear of being arrested or implicated in the scandal. Two of the managers worked closely with some of those in the dock and even signed some documents but for some reason escaped the investigators. Run, run, run! A vocal Jubilee legislator from Rift Valley who has been in the news is said to have acquired a lot of wealth over a short period. He is said to be building a palatial home in the plush Karen estate. Sources whispered to Corridors that he is also building a huge mansion for his mother in-law. His haters think it is the reason he has quietly been fighting the proposed lifestyle audit. Leaders of a county in northern Kenya are concerned that a senior EACC official is sabotaging and covering up corruption in the county by intimidating the regional investigation officers every time the governor is summoned to record a statement. Some companies are said to have been making huge deposits to the county chief’s personal accounts. EACC regional officers have already traced some of the payments to the accounts owned by the governor’s three sons. EACC detectives from the regional HQ made two raids at the county and took away laptops and payment vouchers from chief officers. The governor was to record a statement today, but the high ranking EACC official threatened the detectives handling the case to drop it as the amount they are investigating was too “small”. Click here for the latest political news