South Korea will actively help Kenya in the attainment of its grand development plan, the Big Four Agenda, Prime Minister Korea Lee Nak-yeon has said. Speaking during a luncheon hosted by Deputy President William Ruto in Karen on Saturday, Mr Nak-yeon said his country was determined to furthering co-operation with Kenya, especially on trade, ICT, agriculture, education, manufacturing and healthcare. "Kenya has been at the centre of the global attention as an ICT hub. South Korea would like to be part of this success by striking a tie that would make us benefit from our synergies," the South Korean leader noted. While lauding the milestones made in the friendship between Kenya and South Korea,  Ruto said the Prime Minister’s visit offered a "unique opportunity to further consolidate our partnership for the mutual benefits of our people." Ruto said that vibrant trade was key to cementing the relations between the two countries, a development that called for Kenya and South Korea to address the skewed trade imbalance that is in favour of the latter. "Kenya wishes to introduce a variety of exports to Korea. These include cut flowers, coffee, tea, and fresh produce, which are world-class products and are traded in international markets. We are hopeful that exporting these products will help in addressing the trade deficit between our two countries," the Deputy President said. Based on the growing relations with the Asian nation, Ruto called on the private sector to assume its rightful role "in consolidating our bilateral relations". He lauded the support South Korea had provided in the establishment of the Kenya Advanced Institute of Science and Technology at Konza, an institution that is aimed at enhancing the quality of higher learning in science and technology. He said: "Promotion of a digital society is a fundamental priority of our government as seen in the existing agreement in e-government, aimed at establishing a Korea E-Government Cooperation Centre in Nairobi." Besides this, the two countries have signed the Health Co-operation Agreement, which has culminated in strengthening Kenya’s health system. Some of the projects in progress on this front include the maternal outreach program, collaboration between National Hospital Insurance Fund and Korea Foundation for International Health and the Disease Prevention Project. Ruto said the joint cooperation to develop a Korea-style Special Economic Zone in Athi River would catalyse foreign direct investment from South Korean investors, and contribute to the manufacturing sector, one of the pillars of the Big Four Agenda. He applauded the Korean leadership in promoting peaceful resolution of conflict, adding that Kenya was opposed to the development and pursuit of nuclear weapons by any country. Click here for the latest political news