Disgraced FIFA rated world cup referee Aden Marwa has maintained a low profile and shunned media interview as he goes back to his teaching job in Migori county. Marwa, Kenya's celebrated referee who was set to be among those to officiate the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia but was dropped after he was caught on video ‘receiving a gift.” The expose came through an undercover Ghanaian journalist story which saw the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) on Sunday handing Marwa and others a life ban from the game and other football-related activities. Following the ordeal, Marwa resumed his teaching job at Komotobo Secondary School in Kuria East, Migori County. Read: Sh60,000 bribe cost Kenyan referee Sh2.5 million World Cup wage The teacher has maintained his silence even after the two referees accused alongside him, Gambian referee Ebrimma Jallow and Ghana Football Association president Kwesi Nyantakyi, owned up and apologized. But Marwa declined to talk to the media refusing to pick calls. He has also instructed his family and relatives at his Kehancha and Nyamtiro homes in Kuria East not to welcome any visitors. CAF's Disciplinary committee found Marwa guilty of match-fixing after he was captured on video receiving a US$ 600 (Sh60,000) bribe in a BBC expose in early June. Ten other referees were handed different bans of between two to 10 years while 11 were provisionally suspended pending their appearance in front of the board on August 5. “The following decisions were taken by the CAF Disciplinary board regarding the referees involved, Marwa Range, assistant referee (Kenya); life ban from all CAF related football activities,” read the statement. On Sunday when the press visited his home his wife said "he does not want to see anyone in this compound apart from relatives and close friends and you are not one of them." Relatives and villagers who spoke to the press insisted that their son was 'fixed' by a journalist, which explains the decision and warned against taking photos in the compound. They termed the decision by CAF as unfortunate and unfair to Marwa. The TSC employed Chemistry and Mathematics teacher, resumed his school duties in late June after he was given a two month's break to go to Russia and officiate the World Cup matches. Julius Range, Marwa’s brother said as a family they offer support to him as even Kenyans have not offered him any support. “What kills his spirit, even more, is being in the world's limelight all for the wrong reasons and the kind of condemnation he has received from fellow Kenyans who do not even know what really happened," said Range. Marwa's family members and friends have been encouraging him to appeal the decision. Also read: Caf hand Marwa lifetime ban after bribery allegations Click here for the latest political news