ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Friday evening held a secret meeting with 32 Coast professionals on election-related issues. The meeting that took place at a residential house in Nyali started at 5.30pm and lasted three hours. Three ANC lawmakers – Bunyasi Sakwa (Nambale), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Ayub Savula (Lugari) – attended. ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani and secretary general Barrack Muluka took part in the discussions that started fostering new alliances ahead of the 2022 presidential race. The identity of the professionals working behind the scene could not be revealed to avoid jeopardising their careers. Mudavadi was briefed by lawyers, academicians, economic advisers and activists. The financial crisis, government restructuring, corruption and Coast voting pattern formed the agenda. “Mudavadi is running for presidency. We are looking for a like-minded person to be his running mate,” Lunani said. Giving the analogy of Ronald Ngala and Masinde Muliro, Mudavadi said Coast and Western share common problems. “Those days, we worked closely. You can also remember about Majimbo. The land issue that troubles the Coast is similar to Western,” Mudavadi reportedly said. Lunani said, “If Coast is ready and have someone capable, then we will decide.” ANC Coast secretary general Jimmy Azangu said Mudavadi was reaching out to the Mijikenda vote bloc. “The community’s role, as well as those of professionals, will be crucial as he prepares to vie,” Azangu said. The NASA co-principal also raised issue with the “blind” support youthful MPs at the region are according DP William Ruto. He said they are blowing off their chances of being possible number twos. During the meeting, Mudavadi asked the professionals to boost his bid through their expertise. He wants the country mapped out and an in-depth analysis of the population statistics done. To help form his campaign message and agenda, Mudavadi requested details of collapsed companies and circumstances leading to their shutdown. He cited Ramisi Sugar company and Uchumi. The financial pros are also to focus on the country’s debt and the almost-stagnant economy. “He [Mudavadi] was the whistleblower who stopped the Goldenberg scam and closed a linked bank. He came up with a strategy to form KRA. He wants to campaign with purpose,” Lunani said. Mudavadi was advised on best options should a referendum be called, though details are still scanty. Through the committee on Building Bridges Initiative, President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga are checking on constitutional factors that have resulted to animosity after every electoral circle. Lunani said professionals expressed dissatisfaction with the direction the country has taken, owing to the high rate of corruption. “They felt the need for some restructuring in government. They will be happy if the war on graft is not a witch-hunt,” he said. At the end of this week, the entourage will be in Trans Nzoia, then Rift Valley. In October or September, they will be in Kisii and Nyamira in what is not turning out to be a vote-hunting mission. “It is not just about Mombasa… Many people might think it is early [to start the meetings]. Many do realignments at the last minute without understanding how the government is run and problems facing the country, which through such meetings, we get to understand,” Lunani noted. Through the meeting, Azangu said, ANC is checking the capability of each region for possible rewards should they be part of the next government. On Saturday, Mudavadi proceeded to Kwale, where another meeting with party officials at the county was held. yesterday, Mudavadi attended prayer services in Kwale.  