To be sure, what voters in Mexico did in electing Andres
Manuel Lopez Obrador — or AMLO, as he’s popularly known, against all odds is
not only a lesson for the rest of the world but also something in waiting for
many countries, including our own, if history teaches us anything. The tearing down of the Berlin Wall on November 9, 1989 symbolized
the success of a revolutionary wave that started in the late 1980s and resulted
in the end of communist rule in Central and Eastern Europe. A whiff of it in Kenya
forced President Daniel Moi to reckon with reality and allow the repeal of Section
2A of the Constitution. Going by recent trends in political capitals around the
world, we have a movement afoot to get rid of governments, not just against
political repression and authoritarianism as the primary drivers but also of suffering
and rampant corruption. President Enrique Peña Nieto’s Institutional Revolutionary
Party, known as the PRI, dominated politics in Mexico from 1929 to 2000, when
it was unseated by the conservative National Action Party, or PAN, led by
Vicente Fox at the time. Like in Kenya in 2002, the arrival of a new party
after seven decades of single-party rule stirred tremendous hope among the Mexicans
— hopes that were nonetheless eventually dashed as over the next six-year term,
poverty remained pervasive and corruption got worse. Nieto appeared in 2012, a fresh-faced candidate
selling a new and improved PRI much like Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto
packaged and presented themselves before an electorate that did not want them
in the same year and long past the 2013 election. Nieto’s promises to Mexicans
in 2012, like those by UhuRuto in 2013, too, turned out to be a mirage, exposed
by corruption scandals, record violence and entrenched inequality that has kept
nearly half of the population living under the poverty line. Kenya is no better one year into Jubilee’s second term. The New York Times says, “With 18 years of layered
disappointments, Mexicans are hungry for change, and, perhaps, a bit of
revenge. This explains why a man who has been rejected twice by the electorate
— once in 2006 and again in 2012 — can fare so differently all these years
later.” Paper of Record adds, “His professed honesty and ethical
cleanliness … would flow downward through the ranks of his government and help
change the nation’s culture.” It’s exactly what we need in Kenya in the next polls: Someone
as clean as cotton, whose professed honesty and ethical cleanliness would flow
downward through the ranks of his government and help change our country’s
culture of corruption and impunity. We have had that man come down the pike many a time; at
least seriously four times and two of those, he was unquestionably rigged out,
much like AMLO in Mexico. The third term has proven to be the charm for AMLO. Will the fourth time prove to be the charm for the man in
Kenya? If Kenyans are like the Mexicans, who said they’ve had enough
of rampant corruption, among other ills, then they, too, would say to the AMLO
counterpart in the country, “You’ve fought for so long, you’ve been rigged at
every opportunity but here’s your chance and maybe our last hope.” And, with that, the man takes the reign of power and, like
his Mexican counterpart, surgically starts ridding the country of the vices
knowing it won’t be easy.  However, like
the revolutionary whiff of the late 1980s and the early 1980s, the man will
have the current whiff of enough-is-enough with corruption in strong enough
currents to make a significant headway far more than Uhuru can and definitely
nothing compared to Ruto ever will.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States