Petroleum and Mining CS John Munyes was heckled in Turkana County on Saturday while addressing problems surrounding oil extraction. Munyes had been speaking at a funeral in Kakauma, Turkana West, when residents started chanting 'Mafuta ni yetu (The oil is yours)'. He had told the people that the oil belongs to the government, but quickly added that "residents are the government". Turkana residents on Wednesday blocked trucks from transporting oil from the Ngamia 8 in Lokichar to Mombasa. They held protests over jobs, tenders, insecurity and the community's share of proceeds from the oil. The demonstrators demanded that the trucks be driven back to Africa Camp Solutions where they had been blocked by traders from Lokichar town. Details: No oil will leave Turkana without security and jobs, protesters say Munyes urged the residents not to block the transportation of the oil while noting that this amounts to economic sabotage and blackmail. "I don't advise my people to block trucks of oil for the sake of the nation. Kenya is growing in petroleum and oil proceeds. We want to be an oil exporter by 2021. " he said. "We agreed to move our crude oil from Lokichar to Mombasa because we want to benefit from it. Turkana is facing challenges of insecurity, jobs, employment and many other problems. I urge you to let oil be transported to Mombasa since oil is for the government." The Minister said the government will solve the insecurity issue and that he and other Turkana leaders will ensure the solutions are immediate. He also said that officials were holding talks with Africa Camp Solutions and promised the residents jobs. Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula, who also attended the burial, said President Uhuru Kenyatta should visit the county and address the grievances of residents. While noting that there are rules on the sharing of resources, the Senator said residents should get their rightful share as they have guarded the oil for years. Details: Hear Turkana's cries, Wetang'ula tells Uhuru amid oil protests Click here for the latest political news