The defence and the prosecution in the Sh468 million NYS scam yesterday argued over how to go about their pretrial hearing. Blame games and excuses dominated the hearing as they accused each other of being unwilling to compromise. The two sides had said they were ready to proceed with yesterday’s scheduled pretrial conference. However, chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti had to adjourn the case until today after it emerged the hearing could not take place. Lawyers representing the 48 suspects said they were supplied with documents without an inventory list- and needed more time to prepare. Those charged include ex-PS Lilian Omollo, ex-NYS director general Richard Ndubai and former finance director Wellington Lubira. Their lawyers said they were concerned that the prosecution had yet to rectify charge sheets in which some suspects’ names were wrongly listed. They said they were aware that Ogoti did not have enough time to hear them and also to write a ruling in a different matter involving senior former KPLC chiefs that was to be issued later in the day. “It’s not that we don’t want to proceed. We’re ready but only asking you to consider these circumstances and adjourn this case,” Assa Nyakundi said. The prosecution blamed some of the lawyers for failing to pick documents at the DCI headquarters. The lawyers also told the court to consider the rights of suspects who still in remand, and find that they deserve a speedy trial. The suspects, including four members of the Ngirita family, will today seek a review of bail terms set by the High Court. “Both parties are blaming one another. This will not be allowed to happen again. This court will not entertain such scenario,” Ogoti said. The magistrate directed parties to appear before him today. He said the court will handle each file on its own to “avoid blame game.” The pretrial conference is intended to resolve legal issues before the trial begins. It was first scheduled to begin a day after the suspects took a plea on May 28, but the parties were not ready. The case was adjourned for two weeks, but when the parties showed up in court, the defence lawyers said they had not been given witness statements. Initially, both the defence and the prosecution had informed the court they wanted the case to proceed as soon as possible “even if it means beginning in two weeks’ time”. 