After
the 2017 elections which Raila Odinga's NASA lost
to Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee, Uhuru and government in general
had to find something to keep Raila busy. One
way was bestowing envoy status, which has kept him engaged to some
extent. Without it, Raila would just be roving around and having a disruptive influence. This
engagement is among the fruits of the handshake between Uhuru and
Raila. Envoy status and the role he plays in the handshake have given Raila state benefits, including the state settling some of his
bills, providing security, a fleet of cars and staff. This
envoy status is not empty or in vain. Raila's engagement with South
Sudan has borne fruit, as he brought the warring
factions of Salva Kiir and Riek Machar to the dialogue table. They have
met for the first time and agreed almost on every issue that will see sanity
return to South Sudan. Stability
in South Sudan brings peace dividends that will be felt across the region. Kenya, which has been training their
police and civil servants, will also be able to access cheap oil and
be relieved from the burden of hosting South Sudanese refugees. Cheap
oil has a multiplier  effect on the economy. The cost of production will drop and so will the cost of living. Currently
Raila is in India negotiating trade deals and promoting diplomatic and bilateral
ties. Raila
can project the country's influence and image and bolster relationships because he commands massive international
respect. He is an international figure with numerous connections, more than Uhuru
enjoys. So
if we combine Uhuru and Raila's diplomatic forays, they will bring a
lot to the country. It is only in Uhuru's time that we have had the
American president visit. A host of other host of international icons
have flocked here. If you add what Raila is doing, we will woo many to
Kenya, have an
upper hand in negotiating trade, strengthen relations,
attract more FDI and create more opportunities
in tourism and education. The political scientist spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news