ODM party members yesterday came out guns blazing in defence of Raila Odinga against attacks by estranged Nasa co-principal and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula. The party claimed that Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested and charged with treason after his swearing-in as people's president on January 30, and that he was aware. "Kenya was bleeding, nothing was moving, the Kenyan shilling had dropped tremendously and many schools had been closed. He saved Kenya,” the party said in a statement read by chairman John Mbadi. “Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested, charged and sent to jail so that he could celebrate. He is not the kind of a friend one needs," the ODM party's parliamentary group said. The party was responding to Wetang'ula’s sustained attacks on Raila, which climaxed with an exclusive interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday night. Wetang’ula ripped into Raila in a no-holds-barred attack, describing him as a perpetual party wrecker with a legacy tracing back to Kanu, Narc and Cord days. He said Raila is not a team player and cannot be trusted by anyone. He claimed that he had sacrificed his presidential ambitions twice for Raila, with whom he has now severed association. But in a bare-knuckle response, ODM dismissed the Bungoma senator as a dishonest coward. “Wetang’ula is the least person to talk about betrayal. He does not believe in any values that a politician worth his title should hold. Shouting hoarse in funerals and weddings won’t make him a latter day saint. His past betrays him,” they charged. “He has forgotten so fast how the man he only refers to as Raila came to his rescue when Musikari Kombo was about to win in the 2013 senatorial by-election in Bungoma,” they added. Read:I'm not in NASA, political journey with Raila is over, says Wetang'ula But in a swift response, Wetang’ula denied knowledge of a plot to arrest Raila. “It is utter balderdash and absolute nonsense from people with bankrupt minds. I have never and do not control instruments of government that arrest and incarcerate people,” the Bungoma senator said. Tension was high days before the swearing-in, with the government deploying hundreds of police officers around Uhuru Park and threatening to arrest leaders who dared attend the function. The heavy security was withdrawn, however, a few hours before Raila stormed the venue without his colleagues — Wetang'ula, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. After the oathing, the government responded with a crackdown, arresting vocal ODM members Tom Kajwang' and Miguna Miguna for presiding over the ceremony that triggered open division within Nasa. Less than two months later, on March 9, Raila shocked the nation when he and President Uhuru Kenyatta shook hands outside the Office of the President and sued for the nation’s unity. The truce took his Nasa colleagues by surprise and elicited claims of betrayal. Raila took on a conciliatory tone, explaining that his action was prompted by desire to unite the divided nation. But the rift persisted. Shortly after, the Opposition ganged up and dethroned Wetang’ula from the position of Minority leader in the Senate, accusing him of being condescending and arrogant towards his colleagues. He was replaced by Siaya Senator and ranking ODM member James Orengo. On Tuesday, Wetang'ula laid his woes at Raila's doorstep, saying nothing could be done in the party without his authority or directives. He recalled how he had been humiliated by senators at a meeting ostensibly called by Raila to arbitrate. He said he will forge new alliances with others in his bid for the 2022 election. "I will be a presidential candidate myself in 2022. I will work with others or others work with me but be sure I shall be on the ballot," Wetang’ula said. Yesterday, the Parliamentary Group led by National Assembly Minority leader and party chairman John Mbadi and Chief Whip Junet Mohammed, claimed that Wetang'ula was "suffering from discerning amnesia". “He lacks the political clout to be consulted on matters of national unity, economic growth, strengthening of devolution and reforms,” the MPs said in a statement at Parliament Buildings. Read:Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila "He (Wetang'ula) needs to come to terms that he is no longer the Senate minority leader. He (Wetang'ula) needs to take leave from politics and head somewhere to rest. These positions come and go," Mbadi said. Others present included ANC’s Senator Cleopas Malala (Kakamega) and nominated MP Geoffrey Osotsi who have been allied to Raila; Jared Okello (Nyando), Pamela Odhiambo (Migori), Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Mohamed Faki (Mombasa). Although Wetang’ula has previously claimed that Raila did not want them to attend the swearing-in, the MPs accused him of switching off his phone to avoid attending the oathing ceremony, which was beamed live on some television stations. This was the first public attack directed at one of the Nasa co-principals in the wake of deteriorating relations within the coalition. Wetang’ula has been flip-flopping on the state of the coalition, which he has several times proclaimed dead, amid speculation that he is warming up to Deputy President William Ruto to build an alliance for the 2022 general election. “We knew he (Wetang'ula) used to work behind the scenes with our opponents before but we remained tolerant; throwing tantrums like a primary school pupil will not help,” said Mbadi charging that Wetang'ula he was the traitor and not Raila. Read:Relax and take time off politics, ODM leaders tell Wetangu'la “I repeat here that my political journey with Raila Odinga is over. I am not in Nasa with body and heart. I am only forced and bound by the law. Nasa died on January 30 and was buried, thus I don’t hold any Nasa positions in Parliament,” Wetang'ula said. He went on, "I repeat; NASA is now history.... it is moribund ... in ICU and inactive. All the coalition partners have been moving across the country chest-thumping on their agenda but only Ford-K and ANC seem to be holding things together with the possibility of merger." But Wetang’ula seemed to be stoking the fire with his spat with ODM. Ford Kenya’s Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, a close ally and the Minority deputy whip in the National Assembly, differed with his boss. “If you want to exit the alliance, you must write a letter to the Registrar of Political Parties and attach minutes. That has not been done," Wamalwa said, distancing himself from Wetang’ula. He said the decision to Join Nasa was collective, and Ford Kenya is still registered under the alliance. Wamalwa, who holds the position by virtue of the Nasa coalition, could lose his post if ODM or Ford Kenya pulled out of the coalition. Wetang’ula has left no doubt about his disaffection with Raila and his desire to craft a coalition to lock him out of Western Kenya. Two months ago, he and Musalia Mudavadi mooted a plan to merge their parties to ring-fence the Luhya voter bloc but its progress remains unclear. Last week he signed a pact with Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa — who is affiliated to Jubilee — to bury the hatchet in the interest of the community’s ambition for the presidency. Observers were, however, at a loss as to why he did not involve Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka who was Jubilee’s point man and his arch foe in the battle for the Bungoma votes at the last election. Wamalwa did not contest any seat and has not shown any interest in the 2022 presidential elections. Also Read:NASA is dead but I'm not joining Ruto - Wetangula Click here for the latest political news     