Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has offered to mediate between NASA co-principals Raila Odinga and Moses Wetang'ula. The two leaders and their lieutenants have had a bitter exchange over the state of the alliance and betrayal following Raila's March 9 handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kalonzo said the exchanges are signs of healthy democracy in the Coalition, which he said is intact and not on its deathbed. The Wiper boss offered to diffuse the notion that there are widening cracks in the NASA family. Wetang'ula, who holds that NASA is dead, accused Raila of orchestrating his downfall by plotting his removal as Senate Minority Leader. But Raila, who is also ODM leader, denied the claims and said the Bungoma Senator and Ford Kenya leader caused his own woes. More on this: NASA is dead but I'm not joining Ruto - Wetangula Also read: I'm not in NASA, political journey with Raila is over, says Wetang'ula Kalonzo, who addressed a conference themed 'Mediation for Development' at Strathmore University in Nairobi on Thursday, said Kenyans are tired of combative politics. "Looking at the papers today, I saw firebrand politics. I think Kenyans are getting tired of that type of politics. We lose the God-given virtue of tolerance by not listening to each other," he said. The politician cautioned leaders against what he termed “fireworks politics”. "I consider myself an important player in the NASA family and I'm not aware of the pronounced “death” of the coalition," he said. He added that "both the National Assembly and the Senate should come up with legislation [on mediation], anchored in the Constitution". Kalonzo reiterated his call for Uhuru not to relent in the war against corruption. "If Uhuru blinks in this fight against corruption, we will have lost it. If he doesn’t blink, I will give him a big hug," he said. Chief Justice David Maraga implored Kenyans to adopt mediation rather than litigation. The CJ, who spoke at the same forum, said it is cost effective and saves time. Maraga noted that neighbouring economies are fast catching up with Kenya because of their robust alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana, whe represented Council of Governors Josphat Nanok of Turkana, said the council was working on a framework to resolve disputes between the national and county governments and among governors. Kibwana cautioned leaders against early campaigns for the 2022 presidential vote, saying this derails development, the Big Four agenda and Vision 2030. Click here for the latest political news