The Jubilee Party Parliamentary Group meeting is a routine assembly, which brings together all elected and nominated leaders in the August House. Jubilee Party is intact, and the government is on course in fulfilling the campaign pledges made during the highly contested 2017 general elections, which led to a poll rerun. The fight against corruption should not be political witch-hunt. We should also put in place watertight legislative and policy framework for lifestyle audit and corruption cases. In the next Jubilee Party PG, we expect to discuss the status and the aim of the political handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition Leader Raila Odinga. As leaders, we will also play our part to ensure the country enjoys unity and prosperity. Jubilee has a great 20-year plan for this nation. It is a journey that we started in 2013 and we are on track to fulfil our pledges to this great nation. So far, Kenyans are happy that the Jubilee government is making progress in implementing the Big Four agenda. The Jubilee government is working with all Kenyans for a better tomorrow. The process of transforming our great nation brings on board everyone. Our main focus now is to assist President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto achieve the Big Four agenda. In the Big Four, Uhuru and Ruto want to raise the share of the manufacturing sector from nine to 15 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product by 2022. They also want to expand food production and supply to all Kenyans. The leaders want to provide universal health coverage for all Kenyan homes. They will also build 500,000 affordable houses. Our role in Parliament, as nominated and elected Jubilee leaders, is to ensure we align our activities and responsibilities with the Big Four agenda in the Senate and National Assembly. This will help us serve Kenyans better by pushing and supporting development. It is through policies and legislation that we build a framework that will ensure the Big Four agenda becomes a reality. Everyone will have to play their part for Uhuru and Ruto to achieve the Big Four agenda. The writer is Nandi Senator Click here for the latest political news