The Kakamega county government has launched two water projects in conjunction with the national government to increase supply. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Tuesday said the County Water Master Plan and the national government’s ‘60 Wards 60 Boreholes’ project have been launched. The master plan projects are funded by the county while the boreholes are constructed by the National Government Affirmative Action Fund. Its patron is Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda. In a speech read on his behalf by deputy governor Philip Kutima, Oparanya said the boreholes are benefits of the handshake of March 9 between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga “These projects demonstrate the national government and the devolved units are committed to translating the handshake into tangible benefits for the people,” he said. The governor said the projects will support the Big Four agenda. “Industrialisation of the economy, boosting food security, providing universal health care and affordable housing can only succeed where water supply is assured,” he said. Water executive John Wangwe said Sh360 million has been set aside for development. The money will be used to expand water connectivity by putting up tanks in the wards. Connectivity stands at 62 per cent in urban areas and 30 per cent in rural settlements. “We intend to improve water services by reducing rationing and increasing connectivity to over 70 per cent by the end of this year,” Wangwe said. Last week, Wangwe said the Kakamega County Water and Sanitation Company has adopted a self-meter reading technology to minimise theft and manipulations in billing. The Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) is being piloted in Kakamega town. There are plans to roll it out across the county in three months. Earthview Ltd is providing the services. Wangwe said the technology will reduce the company’s cost of hiring meter readers and ensure accurate billing. It will also identify pipe leaks and prioritise water savings investments to reduce costs. The technology is capable of reading meters within a 50km radius.