The landing was quicker than I anticipated. The misted windows did not allow me a peek at the land I left almost five years ago. But once the plane doors were open and we started disembarking, and the dense cloud of humid Mombasa air engulfed me, I knew I was home. The long lines at passport control awakened the impatient Kenyan in me, who was fixatedly staring at the immigration officer and his chattiness to a foreign national. The foreigner was boisterously asking to pay less because he visits Kenya a lot. Soon, there was a murmur of impatience from the long queue of people waiting to get their passports stamped. I took the opportunity to ignite a conversation with the Kenyan man standing in front of me in the line. “Unadahani amelengeshwa huyo (Do you think he’s been bribed)?” “Ah, hiyo ni lazima (Of course),” he responded. By the time I made it out of the airport, I was reborn to the hardcore Kenyan I was when I left. Five o’clock in the morning and I was speeding down the new airport flyover in my Kenatco taxi. Even in the days of Uber and Taxify, I believe the old ways are the safest ways. I was returning to a land that was so strange yet so familiar in many ways. I looked out at the newly refurbished airport road as the early morning touts were calling out for the early bird passengers. I started thinking how everything feels the same yet so much has changed. The driver engaged me in friendly chit chat, politely inquiring about my travels and updating me on the changes that have happened in the last few years. As we crossed the Nyali Bridge under the blinding flashing of camera lights, the conversation naturally turned to the massive insecurity Mombasa is facing due to rowdy, drug-induced youths. A conversation I had been closely following on social media. The driver, who, like me, grew up in the Kisauni area, updated me on the status of the constituency. As we drove by the garbage lining the streets, he recounted the ongoing war between drugs, gangs and the police. He told some horrific stories that made me yearn for the ‘good old days’. Looking at narrow, one-lane streets, I was transported to my youthful days, where we would wait for the cool matatus. As teenagers, we knew many of our schoolmates who dabbled with being some type of ‘cool’ hooligan, but none of it was to the extent it is now. In all my life growing up in Mombasa, we never heard of people being hacked with pangas by thugs. Even those who robbed you blind back in the day would almost always leave you in one piece. But it is evident that the once tranquil ‘slow’ city has been overcome by a madness of sorts. The desire to get rich or die trying has turned modest Swahili houses into giant apartment buildings; the need to show off one’s wealth has left the narrow streets jam-packed bumper-to-bumper, even at odd times of the day. As I looked out of the window to a town that has grown to nearly twice its size, I saw much of the same infrastructure that has directly caused the chaos that is now Mombasa City. This is an argument I always bring to the debate table. Despite the fact that Mombasa seems to be growing vertically and almost all the way to the shore, nobody seems to put into consideration that the amenities need to be upgraded proportionally. Fresh water is a rare commodity that is coveted more than gold. And the roads that serve Mombasa now are the same ones that used to be there in my parent’s time. For instance, in Kisauni, the area is accessible only through the Old Malindi Road. The one-lane main street is used by cars, matatus, buses, lorries, trailers, tuk tuks and boda bodas. During heavy traffic times, the street becomes pure pandemonium. Although there is much to lament about the status of my precious hometown, there’s some undeniable — albeit few — positive changes to the city. The one thing that is the most prominent is the changed attitude of the city. The city once described as a slow, chilled-out city now has the same vivacity as any major city. Even the thousands of boda bodas and tuk tuks that have taken over the city seem to be always busy. The shops are always overflowing. The roads are never empty. And there is never a dull moment. There is a definite economic surge that has happened over the last five years of my absence. Having been in the city for a week now, my feet walk the streets from pure muscle memory. I can turn a corner without thinking twice about it. But as I ride in the noisy tuk tuks through even noisier streets and look at the once familiar skyline of the city, I hardly recognise my hometown. Everything is strangely familiar yet eerily different. Somehow the wave of change missed me, and I was left behind in a town that now exists only in my memories.