There will be no Kenya if anyone blinks on the zeal and determination to slay the corruption dragon, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has warned. Kalonzo, a Nasa principal, said on Friday that the momentum must be sustained "for the cancer that is fast eating the Kenyan economy to be put to death". “We must fight corruption and thieves without relenting," he said, adding he was ready to support President Uhuru Kenyatta. Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana earlier called for support for Uhuru, saying he was lonely in the "huge" war on corruption. Also read: Uhuru lonely in 'huge' corruption war, needs help - Kibwana Kalonzo noted the vice has stretched to the extent that sugar can be contaminated and the lives of millions of Kenyans put at risk. Regarding the contraband sugar crisis, he criticised MPs saying they were "getting cozy with the suspects". “The committee members were taking selfies with the suspects," he said, adding Kenyans are dismayed by the level of corruption. On July 5, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi gave MPs 10 days to supply evidence showing the sugar in the market is safe for consumption. Muturi took issue with how the joint committee on agriculture and trade handled the probe, saying it allowed members to "hug, kiss and exchange pleasantries with the suspects", thereby missing the mark. More info: No hugs and kisses in sugar probe, proper report in 10 days, Muturi tells MPs Kalonzo spoke at Keekonyokie Ward in Kajiado West during a thanksgiving ceremony of Nominated Wiper MCA Grace Parantai. Kajiado North MP Memusi Kanchori said they were in full support of the anti-graft war and lifestyle audits. Tiaty legislator William Kamket said it is time for a reunion of  "obedient Moi students” for the sake of a formidable force for the 2022 presidential race. Kamket said Kalonzo, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and opposition leader Raila Odinga (ODM) have been obedient to retired President Daniel arap Moi and that this was why Raila was allowed to visit Moi. "Kalonzo will follow suit soon,” he said, adding he will happily bless their quests for the highest office on the land. “Kalonzo, time has come for the obedient students of Mzee Moi, starting with you, to come together and plan the future of this country," he said. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr; politician Wavinya Ndeti; MPs Daniel Maanzo (Makueni), Sammy Seronei (Nominated) and Kennedy Musyoka (EALA); and Kajiado MCAs were among those who attended the ceremony. They praised Uhuru for gender equality in his appointments. Related: Corruption major cause of unemployment, Kalonzo says, backs Uhuru war Click here for the latest political news