Jack & Jill supermarket proprietor Ahmed Noorani will wait longer to take any action against a businessman who owes him Sh167 million. In a ruling on Friday, High Court judge Francis Tuiyot said businessman Rajendra Sanghani's insolvency case must be determined before Noorani can take actions. Sanghani owes Noorani Sh167, 270,500 as the balance for a Sh477,100,000 unsecured loan advanced between August 1, 2012 and April 26, 2018. He filed for bankruptcy at the High Court and sought interim orders under Section 304 of the Insolvency Act. Sanghani noted that as per the terms of agreement, he had made payments in installments as well as interest of 1.5 per cent per month on the total amount owed. "I have always made the installments in time and have never been in arrears," he said. But he noted that due to “unreasonable interest rates”, it had become increasingly difficult for him to make the payments. He added that he had unsuccessfully tried to reach an agreement with Noorani due to unreasonable demands on compounded interest calculations. Sanghani further said the creditor threatened to call in the balance by presenting all postdated cheques for payment without proper notice to him. He wants the court to issue a stay order preventing Noorani from presenting the postdated cheques to the bank for payment. His argument is that his estate and business will suffer irreparable damage and that his chances of repaying the debt will be reduced. Sanghani noted that he does not dispute the debt but is not in a position to pay the amount but is willing to do so in installments. The businessman also sought orders for an official receiver to be appointed to supervise any new arrangements on the re[payment of the debt. Noorani, however, argued that the businessman is a “multi-millionaire who lives lavishly and has displayed dishonest character and an inclination to deception". “The debtor has [shown me] on various occasions that he is capable of making monthly installments as clearly demonstrated by the draft Acknowledgment of Debt he sent me on April 30, 2016," he said. He added that he issued postdated cheques as collateral for the outstanding loan. Related: Jack & Jill landlord opposes video evidence Also read: Jack and Jill looted 'hours after wreck' Click here for the latest political news