As members of Parliament, we owe our allegiance under the Constitution to the great people of Kenya. Section 94 on Parliament says the legislative role
is vested in and exercised by Parliament. It manifests the diversity
of the nation, represents the will of the people and exercises their
sovereignty. Section 95 on the National Assembly says it represents the interests of constituencies and special interests. It
deliberates on and resolves issues of concern to the
people. Section 96 says the Senate's role is to represent the
counties, serve the interests of counties and their governments.
The Senate participates in oversight of state officers. Due to the sugar saga, citizens are in limbo and don’t know what to
consume. The traders who imported sugar, people who have put money in
the sugar trade don’t know what will happen to their investments. There are some decisions this house cannot take to protect the
interests of all people. Samburu West MP Naisula Lesuuda asked a
specific question. On behalf of Kenyans, she wanted to establish if
the sugar in the market was safe for human consumption. A member should be given a statement or statements he or she has
sought by members of this great house. And 15 days later, let the house
respond to what she asked. It's ridiculous for the house to demand that all the sugar in the
market undergo testing. They want to go home and tell my mother that the
sugar in her house should first be tested! It can never happen. It will never happen. Parliament should not act
in vain. We know it has teeth to bite. If the revenue was not
collected by the KRA, Mr Speaker, you have the Gazette notice and know
when the window closed. If X and Y imported sugar
outside the legal window, this committee must come out clearly and
explain who didn’t pay and what he owes Kenyans. People must pay taxes
and all those violating the law must also pay. The Majority leader spoke in Parliament yesterday during the sugar debate Click here for the latest political news