Agriculture plays a key role in creating jobs, reducing poverty and achieving shared prosperity. The sugar industry needs to be revived and nurtured towards achieving stability and competitiveness for its long-term survival and success. The industry is riddled with cheap sugar imports, mismanagement, obsolete milling technology, high operational costs, poor cane quality and now poor implementation of the Comesa safeguards that end in 2019. The Comesa safeguards limit importation of duty-free sugar. Various challenges have curtailed full implementation of the safeguards such as smuggling and artificial sugar shortages, inadequate tracking systems and the sugar factories themselves resorting to importing and repackaging the commodity. The government should continue invoking Article 61 of the Comesa Treaty, which provides protection for emerging sectors until they are considered mature for competition. Considering the huge challenges the industry is facing from within and without, we will be forced to negotiate another extension next year. There is need to actualise the planned privatisation of the sector to end mismanagement. However, in their current state it will be very difficult for sugar factories to attract serious investors. Reforms geared towards stabilising the sector to make it attractive for potential investors should be implemented. Research should be undertaken to establish the most efficient technologies and production capacities needed to make the industry competitive. From the findings the government should undertake to purchase the ideal technologies and consolidate the factories to economically viable sizes. The government should then seek to privatise the sugar factories. Efforts to privatise have previously been hampered by legal battles between the county governments and the Privatisation Commission. The counties argue that since agriculture is a devolved function, they should have a say in the sale of these firms. To resolve this, there should be a memorandum of understanding between the two parties to partner in the sale of the factories. They should engage experts to advise them on the sale and to address the issue of consolidating the factories. The mills have accrued huge debts, leading to poor payment to farmers. To resolve this, the bailout provided by the government should be adequate to offset the accumulated debts. Other critical issues are the ever-increasing cost of farm inputs and transport in sugar production. There should be adequate long-term government subsidies for farm inputs to cushion farmers against high costs. The government, through its various agricultural research institutes, should evaluate all the available sugar varieties and adopt the ones that are fast maturing and better in terms of quality and content. Also, more research on better methods of sugarcane husbandry should be carried out. A specific research and development unit should be established. Kenya should also work closely with Brazil to borrow and adopt tips on high sugar productivity. National chairman, Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry