Six senior Kenya Wildlife Service officers have been suspended over the deaths of rhinos translocated to the Tsavo East National Park. They include deputy director biodiversity, research and monitoring Samuel Kasik, head of veterinary and capture Francis Gakuya, head of capture service Isaac Leekolol, Tsavo East senior warden Felix Mwangangi, head of ecological monitoring Mohammed Omar and senior scientist Fredrick Lala. Ten of the 11 rhinos moved to the park have died. Tourism CS Najib Balala yesterday said the tenth rhino “sadly died on Wednesday while the remaining female had been attacked by lions.” Investigations show their translocation had been poorly managed. Balala said the deaths were due to multiple stress syndrome intensified by salt poisoning. It was further aggravated by dehydration, starvation, proliferation of opportunistic bacteria in upper respiratory tract, gastric ulcers and gastritis. “The independent inquiry further showed there were areas of clear negligence that occurred after translocation at the release site in Tsavo, especially in the holding boma at the sanctuary that included poor coordination and communication among officers,” Balala said. The CS, who addressed the press at his NSSF office, said part of the assessment that warned of salty water had not been considered before translocation. “The investigator found unacceptable professional negligence among officers,” Balala said. The rhino inquiry team included assistant superintendent of police attached to DCI Benson Omondi, University of Nairobi don Peter Gathumbi and Dr Kuria Gachungia from the veterinary directorate. Read:Balala suspends rhino transfers after eight die of salt poisoning Others were Dr David Zimmerman, a senior veterinary manager at SansParks, South Africa, and Patrick Omondi from the Ministry of Tourism. Some 14 rhinos were earmarked for translocation. Eight were from the Nairobi National Park while six were from Lake Nakuru National Park. The exercise was stopped after the rhino deaths. Balala said Kasiki oversaw poor coordination between various research departments and the headquarters. The ecological monitoring department failed to provide water quality assessment testing results to the head of veterinary before the final decision was made. Gakuya was suspended for disregarding the checklist before translocation. Balala said he failed to advise acting DG Julius Kimani to stop moving rhinos from Nakuru. Leekolol was asked to take responsibility over improper care of animals at the holding boma. Mwangangi was suspended for “showing total disconnect on the crucial exercise between the capture team and Tsavo park management”. Omar failed to provide salinity level monitoring to the translocation planning team while Lala was suspended pending disciplinary action as he was supposed to advise and monitor all aspects of the suitability of the new home. Kimani has also been asked to go back to his previous position of director of parks and reserves. Kimani will be replaced by principal at KWS training institute in an acting capacity. Director for research, monitoring at the ministry Patrick Omondi will take over as the acting director of biodiversity. Zimmerman said the timing of the translocation was not synchronised during the period of optimal conditions at the destination. The actual capture and relocation was above average. He said the two errors were crucial to the adverse repercussions. He said the operation standards followed by the capture team were not best practices. Also See:Why Tsavo rhino deaths could have been avoided Click here for the latest political news    