Mombasa governor Hassan Joho yesterday broke his silence and launched a scathing attack on Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid, describing it as “doomed”. The governor did not name Ruto, but his remarks left no doubt they were directed to the DP and his former allies now backing Ruto. The governor questioned whether Ruto was fit enough to lead the country and vowed to work with his opponents “at the right time” to stop the former Eldoret North MP from becoming President. “We are not bothered. Do what you want and when you leave, others will come. The only way to deal with them is to work with their opponents,” Joho said. He said he will work with Ruto’s opponents as a strategy to ensure he does not get Coast votes. Joho has met Kanu boss Gideon Moi and agreed to work with him. Moi is widely considered Ruto’s opponent in the Rift Valley. Joho has appeared isloated since his party boss Raila Odinga shook hands with President Uhuru Kenyatta in March. Some Coast MPs who previously supported Joho have taken advantage of the truce to declare their support for Ruto. Read:GEMA nation won't make DP Ruto president, 'hustler' voters will - Mutahi Ngunyi handshake Joho has previously criticised Ruto, but shook hands with the DP and President Kenyatta last month during the oppening of the Sh11 billion Dongo-Kundu bypass. The decison by Joho’s former allies to join Ruto has rattled the governor and even thrown his own 2022 presidential bid into disarray. Prior to the last election, the governor enjoyed the support of nearly all MPs from the six Coast counties after playing a role in getting them elected. But since the handshake, Joho now seems to have only Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, Mombasa woman representative Aisha Hussein and Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir on his side. Last weekend, Joho’s other ally Kilifi governor Amason Kingi hosted Ruto during a harambee to raise money for the publication of the Giriama Bible. Others who have deserted Joho are Msambweni’s Suleiman Dori, the chairman of the Coast Parliamentary Group, and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, who have said they will campaign for Ruto. ODM won all the seats in Kilifi, but in recent times, Kingi, Jumwa and Kilifi South MP Owen Baya have warmed up to Ruto. Mombasa senator Mohammed Faki has also joined Ruto’s rallies in the region together with Changamwe MP Omar Mwinyi, Kisauni MP Ali Mbogo, Mohammed Ali (Nyali) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu). In Kwale, all the four MPs, Suleiman Dori (Msambweni), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga) plus Governor Salim Mvurya have also ditched ODM party leaders for Ruto. But yesterday, Joho warned the days of divisive politics were long gone and leaders should work together to uplift the living standards of their people. Joho also took a swipe at some Rift Valley MPs, led by leader of Majority Kipchumba Murkomen, for dragging Raila’s name into the Mau Forest issue. “How the hell do you link him to the Mau? I did not know my party leader who is not in government is that powerful,” he said. The governor said the politicians had found a soft target in Raila and were capitalising on it for political survival. odm presidentIAL candidate Politicians allied to Ruto have pointed an accusing finger at Raila for allegedly taking advantage of the handshake to instigate the Maasai Mau evictions with an eye on 2022 politics. On Saturday, Murkomen returned to the Mau forest and urged the evictees to stay put even as a section of Jubilee leaders said the move reeks of disobedience to President Kenyatta. Murkomen said he will not sit and watch as Kenyans are thrown out of the Mau. Meanwhile, ODM said it will field a presidential candidate in 2022. Joho and Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya were warned against campaigning for the ODM presidential ticket, an indication that Raila might take another stab at the seat. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said leadership is God-given. The MP warned individuals against trying to force themselves on the electorate. Read:Ruto is next president, Coast MPs says, pledge full support Click here for the latest political news