To support adequate funding for Judiciary, it is necessary to realise
that without courts, there can be no justice and without justice, people cannot
have freedom, rights and life. The only time people can have problems with courts is if judges are
enemies of justice. Even then, courts should be not be killed. They should be
reformed. Kenya has agreed to be a nation of democracy, which means a government
of the people, by the people and for the people, which is facilitated by the three
arms of government — the Executive, Parliament and the Judiciary. To produce
optimum results, the three arms of government must function in absolute
equality — assisting and cooperating each other — rather than sabotaging one
another. When either arm of government sabotages the other, as the Legislature is
currently doing by underfunding it, maybe Tragically, when Judiciary is sabotaged, injustices will come from
dysfunctional courts, and dictatorship will emerge. And when a dead Judiciary and dictatorship replace an independent judicial
system and democracy, hostile Legislature and Executive will emasculate the
courts, denying judges the security of tenure and make them operate under the
whims of the Executive and Parliament. When we talk about underfunding Judiciary, we do not just talk about
hamstringing judges and the courts. It is also about killing democracy and
denying the people justice, freedom and rights. While some people only understand justice and the need for an
independent and functioning Judiciary academically, some of us have known and
suffered injustice in the hands of impotent and unjust judges at the beck and
call of dictators. We, therefore, know what it means to have an emasculated
Judiciary. It is giving up justice, freedoms and rights. It means having a
Judiciary that is controlled by dictatorship, and can, therefore, not protect the
people against injustices: One that only serves the powerful. But why is Parliament denying Judiciary money? Is it in order to kill
it? And why would it want to kill Judiciary, if not to restore dictatorship? Does
Parliament believe the country will be better with dictatorship — without
democracy, freedom and rights? From my experience, and others, we know in such an environment no one,
including MPs, judges or civil servants are safe from injustice. In the past, some
of us saw Parliament create laws to legalise detention and dictatorship, and
became a victim thereafter. When MPs weaken Judiciary, they oppress themselves
but when the people defend Judiciary, they protect themselves. Often, when courts “deny us justice”, we hate them. However, the
solution to injustice is not dictatorship and killing of the Judiciary. It is reforming
the judicial system. Without a better-funded Judiciary, the country is a jungle
where only the strong and the carnivorous survive because the courts are made a
tool of oppressing the people. Only a strong Judiciary can guarantee people
justice and freedoms. Those who deny Judiciary adequate funding not only want to weaken and
kill the courts but also want kill justice and democracy. Thomas Moore said law
is a forest into which we hide when the devil chases us. Our experience tells
us that without Judiciary we are all exposed when dictatorship comes after us.
To protect us, we must protect Judiciary when Parliament attempts to kill it by
denying it money for development purposes.