Four Family Bank employees in Ruiru were yesterday charged in a Kiambu court. They are operations supervisor Cyrus Mugo, security officer Robert Ndururi, Nancy Njeri and Sally Muembu, both tellers and customer care service officers. The four are accused of stealing Sh19,204,563, €210 and $570 and neglecting to prevent a felony. They denied the charges before senior principal magistrate Stella Atambo. The four allegedly committed the offence on the night of July 14 and 15. Mugo, Njeri and Muembu faced a second charge of stealing money belonging to Family Bank, Ruiru, by virtue of being employees. Ndururi faced another count of neglecting to prevent a felony by being the guard on duty. Atambo will today make a ruling on the bail. Their lawyers urged the court to grant reasonable bail as the accused have no access to the bank and cannot interfer with the case. Lawyer Kimani Wakimaa said his clients are trusted employees who ran the bank. “My client is entitled to bail or bond. The DCIO has not pointed to any of the suspects, so he cannot indicate if any of them was involved in the heist,” Wakimaa said, adding the suspects were not flight risks. The court released branch manager Charity Wanjiku and Jane Wanjiru in charge of bank operations without reading any charges. They had earlier been arrested in connection with the theft and stayed in custody for seven days pending investigations. Their lawyer James Ngugi thanked Kiambu DCIO Paul Wambugu and the prosecution for making thorough investigations and exonerating his clients. Wambugu requested seven days to continue holding the suspects to finalise investigations. DCI chief George Kinoti on Sunday visited Family Bank, Ruiru. He said the heist was executed by people inside the bank. Initial investigations established the door to the strong room had been cut through using a blowtorch. The safe had also been broken into and the fire alarm had been conveniently vandalised as well as the security alarm system. The main door was not tampered with. The two padlocks on the back door were unlocked using keys that are always left in the strong room. Three bank officials and a customer called a Ruiru police boss at about 2pm on Sunday to report the robbery.