Abolishing boarding schools Just days after causing a storm with the suggestion that all students wear the same uniform, Education Principal Secretary is back in the news. On Thursday, the PS suggested that it was time for the country to abolish boarding in public secondary schools as a way to tame unrest. Tens of schools have been closed due to unrest that has seen boarding facilities destroyed in arson attacks. Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has said the government will not pay for damage of infrastructure in the cases of unrest in many parts of the country. Parents, she says, will bear the cost of reconstruction for the damaged facilities. Young Thugs On July 14, 2016, four teenagers abducted and attempted to sexually assault a doctor - the wife of a senior government official in Eastleigh - using a metal rod. On Thursday, Chief magistrate Heston Nyaga said the teenagers were guilty of abduction and that in the sexual assault and attempted rape charges, two of them were principal offenders. “The complainant’s testimony was credible and without contradictions. She told the court the truth by identifying the four accused persons and not linking them to three others who were freed for lack of evidence,” he said. Who will save the children? The rising spate of incest and defilement of children has raised alarm among authorities and children’s rights activists as shared here. The worrying part is that most children are sexually molested at homes, schools, on their way to or from schools and by people close to them, in a breach of the trust the children have for the people. We also look at why the menace of incest and defilement of minors has been on the rise, despite harsh penalties meted out on paedophiles by courts. Although many cases remain unreported, those that reach the authorities have earned perpetrators stiffer penalties, including life imprisonment. An easier, friendlier billing system The Energy Regulatory Commission has promised to consider public complaints, concerns and compliments before coming up with a final harmonised tariff. Speaking on Thursday during a public hearing on the harmonisation of retail tariff at KICC, ERC Director general Robert Oimeke said other factors such as affordability and current economic trends will be considered. "We have heard the desperation of consumers from large manufacturers to small domestic households and I can assure you we won't overburden the consumer," said Oimeke. Beyond the newsroom In the past few months, there has been a spate of workplace changes by leading media personalities. Former TV news anchor Anne Ngugi's advice to journalists is to be driven by passion and not money. "Those [transitions] are more of individual decisions that different people make in life, based on different perspectives. Some go for money while others go for exposure or even because they want to follow people," she said. EDITORIAL The Star Editors are of the view that boarding schools act as a social mixer, integrating Kenyans from every part of the country. If pupils go only to local primary and secondary schools, they will grow up with a very narrow worldview. TODAY'S WEATHER: Kenyan winter continues NAIROBI: Showers. High 20ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60% MOMBASA: Morning showers. High 27ºC. Winds S at 15 to 25 km/h. Chance of rain 50% KISUMU: Afternoon showers. High 27ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. Click here for the latest political news