President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday made a passionate appeal to Kenyans to join efforts in the fight against corruption. In a message on Twitter, the president said the war against the menace was for the betterment of all in the country. "Wakenya wenzangu (fellow Kenyans), the war against corruption and economic crimes is about the well being of our Republic. Let's all join hands and vigorously fight this vice," Uhuru said. In a show of walking the talk, the president has in recent months led from the front in pushing for the punishment of those implicated in corruption. The Head of State said corruption, if not contained, will curtail the implementation of his Big Four Agenda on which he wants to rally on to leave a lasting legacy in his final term. While addressing the 8th Presidential Round Table Forum at State House, Nairobi, on May 10, the president said time has come for the country to rise up as one and say no to corruption. “We must address the real elephant in the room. We must say enough is enough for the country to move forward”, he said. Read: I won't let graft derail my Big Four Agenda - Uhuru The president said it was time for Kenyans to be blunt and honest with one another especially when things go wrong. “We are all to blame. But we must now say enough is enough and move forward”, the President said. To this end, the president has called for a lifestyle audit of all public servants, including himself and Deputy President William Ruto. He also directed all procurement officers in public entities to step aside and undergo fresh vetting, including taking polygraph tests. The president also directed the relevant institutions mandated with investigating and prosecuting economic crimes to do a thorough job and ensure those found culpable, even if it's his brother, are held accountable. The result of this has seen the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji order the arrest of senior officials at the National Youth Service and Kenya Power and take them to court. Read: Uhuru orders lifestyle audit of state officers, says will take lead, Ruto to follow More: Teams of experts completes rules for Uhuru lifestyle audit Click here for the latest political news