President Uhuru Kenyatta is working on a government of national unity that he could unveil at any time. Credible sources in the presidency have confidentially told the Star that Uhuru has discussed the issue with ODM leader Raila Odinga as part of the national unity project to smooth implementation of the Big Four agenda and war against corruption. Uhuru is said to have given his blessings to Raila to include his NASA colleagues, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi. Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is also part of the new leadership configuration. The Baringo senator will have increased clout in the government of national unity. Gideon is Deputy President William Ruto's political competitor in the Rift Valley, however, he is is a close friend of the President. On Saturday, Gideon was with Uhuru when he visited his father, retired President Daniel Moi, at his Kabarak home. More on this: Pictures: Uhuru meets Moi, son Gideon at Kabarak Related: Don't blow up small political issues, pursue peace under Uhuru - Moi Ruto has failed in his efforts to meet the elder Moi, who has been ailing. Ruto's allies have been infuriated and blamed Gideon for blocking the DP's access. Speculation has been rife about the package and dimensions of the March 9 handshake, which itself was a well-guarded secret until it was unveiled as a surprise to the nation by Raila and Uhuru. Politicians on both the NASA and Jubilee sides, including DP Ruto, were kept in the dark. Besides a nine-point handshake communique, little is known of what Uhuru and Raila agreed, or their end game. "A lot is happening that will shock people soon. I don't have permission to disclose those discussions but I can tell you for sure most Kenyans will be happy,"  Tiaty MP William Kamket, a close Gideon ally, said yesterday. It is not clear whether Ruto has been involved in the discussions, given that his close allies led by Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen have accused unnamed people working for the President of frustrating the DP's bid to succeed Uhuru in 2022. Murkomen specifically blamed the ongoing Mau Forest evictions on the handshake and accused Raila of being the mastermind. Neither Raila nor the President have responded. While Kalonzo has accepted the new deal, Mudavadi is still considering and consulting confidants. "Those discussions are on but are yet to be concluded. There is no time frame but we are hopeful they will be concluded in weeks," a Mudavadi confidant aware of the talks told the Star. On Saturday Kalonzo dropped a hint about the negotiations when he said the decision to join Uhuru resulted from wide consultations and his party would be at the negotiating table. "We will support the President's Big Four Agenda and the fight against graft because these matters benefit Kenyans directly. It's always good to be at the negotiating table. That is where we are heading as a party," Kalonzo said after meeting his MPS, NEC members and governors in a hurriedly convened session. Read: Kalonzo's Wiper party resolves to support Uhuru's agenda in Parliament Also see: Mudavadi: I’m ready to succeed Uhuru in 2022 In another telling statement at the same function, Wiper chairman Kivutha Kibwana said they would continue to point out mistakes, even if they join government. "Even if there is an unfolding government of national unity in terms of sitting at the table and negotiating together, it doesn't mean that things that are wrong cannot be spoken about," Kibwana said. He added, "It is now the decision of NEC/PG of the Wiper Democratic Movement-Kenya to directly work with President Uhuru in his efforts to transform Kenya. Our MPs should stand guided by this resolution." The possibility of some Jubilee leaders backing Raila for President in 2022 — not Ruto — is also said to be under discussion, according to multiple sources. Yesterday the Star learnt there are Jubilee leaders unhappy with Ruto who are are increasingly seeing Raila as the alternative in an arrangement that could change the power matrix and the fixation on 2022. This new 2022 plan will be given impetus by a government of national unity and eventual change of the Constitution to create new positions that will broadly share executive power. Constitutional changes, according to the plan, will be initiated in 2020 well before the election. The government of national unity will create a  political environment conducive to a non-polarising referendum. The changes under discussion will create an executive that includes the President, Deputy President, Prime Minister and two deputies. The new structure will also bring politicians back into the Cabinet. They will attend and answer questions on the floor of Parliament. Before the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010, Cabinet secretaries, then known as ministers, were selected by the President from among MPs. Sources also said there is a proposal to expand the Cabinet from the current maximum of 22 to 30 to accommodate more elected leaders. The proposed changes are likely to be processed through the 14-member Building Bridges Initiative formed by Uhuru and Raila on April 30. The committee led by Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi is expected to complete its work within a year. The team has began collecting views from the public on ending corruption. Despite their initial disenchantment with the handshake, NASA leaders Kalonzo and Mudavadi have gradually become accustomed to the new political reality. Two months ago, Kalonzo rejected pressure by critics of the handshake to take up the NASA leadership. He argued then that there was no vacuum as Raila was still the NASA boss. Kalonzo is said to have agreed to go along with Raila, firming up his position when he embraced the deal at the National Prayer Breakfast on May 31. Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, who have been trying to craft a party merger, did not attend. Yesterday Wetang'ula, who has been on the warpath against Raila, declared that he is now the official opposition leader "after Raila betrayed Kenyans". Addressing the press at his Kanduyi home, the Bungoma senator said, “I see a lot of media stories of some people calling Weta all manner of names and some spend a lot of time and energy calling me irrelevant. The only reason they call me irrelevant is because I am relevant." Related: President Kibaki was the architect of unity governments in Kenya Also read: Expert comment: Why unity governments are formed Click here for the latest political news