About a month ago, Matilda Sakwa's biggest headache was how to deal with increased strip joints in Machakos and illegal sand harvesting. Little did she know that a month later she will be in the helm of the embattled National Youth Service. While addressing this year's Madaraka Day celebrations in Machakos, Sakwa gave a stern warning that strip clubs and illegal sand harvesting would not be tolerated. She asked the County government to work with security organs to ensure such bars are closed down and revoke their licenses with immediate effect. But in a shift of fortunes, Sakwa was on Monday appointed director general of the NYS. She takes over on Wednesday from Richard Ndubi who stepped aside after being arrested in an ongoing case also involving Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo. Read: Humbling prison life for high-flying NYS suspects More: I will kick out the cartels at NYS - Matilda Sakwa Sakwa, a mother of four was Born in 1964 in Bunyore Vihiga County. She went to Lwak Girls Primary School in Asembo Siaya and proceeded to Lwak Girls High School for her O-Level. Sakwa then went to St Mary's Igoji Girls High School, Meru for her A-Level before joining the University of Nairobi to study Sociology and Religious studies. She then proceeded to International Institute of social studies The Hague the Netherlands. "Now doing PhD UoN (suspended though)," she said. Sakwa has worked as District Officer in Nakuru, Gilgil, Trans Nzoia, Limuru and Kakamega. She also worked as a District Commissioner in Kangundoa and Nairobi North District. She became a Sector Director for the Vision 2030 Social Pillarand served between 2011-2012 Sakwa has served as County Commissioner in Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, and lately Machakos County. On her LinkedIn account her opening remarks "astute in work Performance: I Always strive to do my best and be my best.” She holds a Masters degree in Development Studies (Politics of Alternative Development Strategies) from the International Institute of Social Studies at the Hague, Netherlands. She also holds a Bachelor of Arts (Sociology and Religious Studies) from The University of Nairobi and has attended various courses that include Strategic Leadership Program, Senior Management Course. Her primary responsibilities focused on coordination of National Government programs; Peace Building and Conflict Management, Coordination of Security and Disaster management besides being the liaison officer in the County. She has also taken part in seminars and courses both within the country and outside the country; Britain, China, Israel, Cyprus, Uganda, South-Africa, Cyprus, Tanzania that has "enabled me share experiences and have a wider perspective in leadership". “My professional experience over the years has fostered an attitude of adaptability towards an atmosphere that is continuously evolving in an increasingly dynamic constitutional environment,” she stated. “My goal is to provide strategic direction, leadership and management according to the organization’s mission and vision,” She says that her achievements over the years include successes in but not limited to effective management, coordination of Government business, networking, community and resource mobilization with a special focus on administrative and managerial leadership in strategic planning. Others include implementation of high-level coordination of programs that facilitated maintenance of law and order, dissemination and interpretation of Government policies. She says that he has also dealt with emerging policies and development initiatives with special interest on the implementation of key policy commitments that promote youth, gender and women’s rights. "My previous experience include being a Director, Social Pillar: Vision 2030 Sector Delivery Secretariat, Ministry of Planning, National Development and Vision 2030, where I facilitated the successful coordination and strategic implementation of Vision 2030 and its Medium Term Plan Projects within the Social Pillar," she says. While working as Undersecretary/Head of AIDS Control Unit, Office of the President, Ministry of Provincial Administration and Internal Security, she led the team in developing plans for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS programs in the Ministry and empowering the institutional Sub-ACU’s in the Departments and other institutional structures in the Ministry while highlighting and promoting Gender and HIV/AIDS advocacy in the Ministry. “One of my biggest success being the designing and implementation of the Workplace Policy on HIV/AIDS,” she stated. Click here for the latest political news 