Pronouncement by the newly appointed National Youth Service Director General Matilda Sakwa that she will crush cartels at the corruption-riddled institution has been laughed off by insiders. Sources at the Thika Road-based institution say the real perpetrators of graft are still wielding a lot of powers at the National Youth Service and it would not be possible to completely eliminate them. Reports indicate that some individuals at the institution were poised for promotion following prosecution of some of their colleagues. Some suppliers are not happy with some of those lined up for promotion and it is not clear why. Your guess is as good as mine. ***** One of the companies implicated in the importation of multi-million shilling, allegedly contaminated sugar, recently instructed its bank to transfer Sh2.1 billion from its account to that of a sister company. The sister company’s account was the beneficiary of the huge sums suspected to be proceeds of the contraband. It is believed that the sugar company is trying to conceal the money it has made from the contaminated sugar. ***** A first-term MP from the South Rift is the talk of the village after his wife ran away with another man last week. The MP, who is notorious for partying hard with slay queens, was nabbed several times by a spy his estranged wife had hired. The spy sent the wife pictures and videos of the MP with a number of women on several occasions prompting her to retaliate by running away with another man who is said to be a young engineer from a lakeside county. ***** What happened to the celebrated Michuki rules? To motorists and commuters using PSVs, they died and were buried with the initiator. Users of matatus, as they are commonly known, or those driving on routes used by matatus can attest to the return of the rule of the jungle. On city routes, matatus are not only overcharging passengers, but carrying excess passengers. They have become a norm not only at the peak hours, but off peak as well. Take for instance the 32-seater bus ferrying over 50 passengers, with others standing in the alleys. Or in the villages and small towns where 14-seater vans now carry over 20 passengers. Surprisingly, even with frequent traffic stops, the vehicles are waved on after little conversations with traffic officers. In the city, Corridors has learnt, matatus pay in advance to flout the rules. The loot is shared through the hierarchy in a well-knit network that covers the violation of all traffic rules with impunity. And not that Police Headquarters is not aware.