KNUT has dismissed the Education ministry's claim that the wave of unrest in schools is the result of fear of mock and national exams. In a report submitted to Parliament on Thursday, Secretary General Wilson Sossion reiterated that unpopular policies introduced by the ministry are part of the problem. He noted that most of the schools that have experienced unrest have commendable academic records so their students cannot be afraid of exams. “Several suspects are juniors in forms one and two, not candidates. Most of the schools experiencing fires are national - academic giants like Maranda High, Friends School Kamusinga, Meru High and Kisumu Girls,” Sossion notes in the report. The official further said the ministry is simply unable to run boarding institutions. While facing the Parliamentary Committee on Education two weeks ago, Education PS Belio Kipsang recommended the addition of day streams to boarding schools for parents to play a bigger role in shaping their children. More on this: Boarding schools won’t be abolished, says PS Also see: Schools have key role to play in preventing unrest, says CS Amina Sossion also pointed out that the overbearing result of the chaos is that parents are forced to pay for the damage. He added: “Despite radical measures to contain unrest and destruction of school properties, the Ministry of Education Science and Technology (MOEST) has again taken a back seat, tight-lipped on fires razing down dormitories and other properties." More on this: Parents will pay for school fire damage The report titled 'The Facts and Fiction on the Burning of Schools in 2018' states that the delocalisation of teachers has contributed to trouble in 58 out of about 70 schools where cases were reported from June. “All national schools that were razed down this term have new principals. This has made the new principals do everything, including wearing school uniform, (like the principal of Friends School Kamusinga), so as to impress, but it has not worked,” Sossion said. He said interviews with students revealed that arson cases were triggered by the entry of new principals. “A case in point is Maranda High, where a form two student confided in us that learners have a big problem with new rules introduced by the new principal." Issues cited in the report as contributors to unrest include late disbursement of capitation, lack of teacher participation in policy making, alienation of local communities and churches in the management of schools and the interference with management through numerous, confusing managerial policies by the ministry and the Teachers Service Commission. “Research shows that between April and July 2018, TSC and MOE released a record 87 circulars all giving conflicting directions on how to run schools," Sossion said, and noted that each institution has a unique management style and ideas for effective management. “That is why Starehe Boys Center was unique and admired. Alliance Boys was unique in style and leadership,” he said. The KNUT boss pointed a finger at parents for performing dismally in their roles; he said some children are doing drugs while others are from broken homes. “Parenting has been left to teachers who have no power over children,” he said. He noted that the union has threatened to call a strike from September 1 if the ministry does not stop issuing “unpopular policies”. Read: Matiang'i bans school prayer, visiting days in third term, extends second term Related: Government opposes return of corporal punishment to tame school unrest Click here for the latest political news