A leading manufacturer of sweets and snacks is seeking to reverse a decision by the government that cancelled its license to import industry sugar. Kenafric Industries produces Confectionery, Culinary Products, Juices, Biscuits and Snacks among them Popular Fresh Chewing gum, TingTing, Oyo Mchuzi Mix, Icing Sugar, Just4u juice among others. The company wants the court to restrain parliament and Agriculture and Food Authority from implementing and mandating the report of the Parliamentary Departmental Committee on Agriculture, Livestock and Co-operatives dated March 2015 that cancelled its tender. Kenafric further wants the court to compel the National Assembly to call them to appear before it for submission of memorandum and participation by giving evidence in response to any allegations made by any party against them. Through lawyer Kelvin Mogeni, the company claims that Parliament has never called them to appear before it to answer to any allegations on its usage of its sugar license and its products which it uses for the manufacturing process. “The respondent's decision not to consider the input and evidence of the petitioner being the affected party prior to their decision is not only illegal but discriminatory and nullity and devoid of legal effect” court papers read. The company says it has been gazetted as an importer of Industrial Sugar by the East African Community Council of Ministers to import sugar for the year 2018. He said that Pursuant to the gazettement notice to import sugar, Kenafric had ordered a consignment of sugar that is now at the port of Mombasa that has not been cleared because of the directive from the Sugar Directorate. Mogeni claims the Directorate wrote to Kenafric on July 17 this year and informed them that there was delays in renewing their annual registration because of the report by parliament. In his affidavit, Kenafric Industries Director Mikul Shah says that the committee recommended “that, relevant laws and regulations governing sugar imports should be amended to provide for higher accountability and public health standard for repackaging sugar and for stiffer penalties for offenders” Shah says the report further recommended cancellation of import licenses for Kenafric Industries, Czarnikow EA Ltd, Stuntwave Ltd, Mshale commodities and Rising Star Commodities. Shah claims that the recommendations by parliament to cancel their license which in essence stops their manufacturing process will affect 2,500 of its employees. According to him, the company has been a manufacturer of sugar products for over 30 years and there is a strict regime which monitors the quantity of sugar and compares it with the manufactured goods both sold locally and for export. “All these measures of verification have confirmed that the petitioner has never been involved in any malpractices and all qualities of sugar imported have properly been accounted for” Shah Claims. According to Kenafric, the Parliamentary Committee has held departmental hearings and reached a decision on them without being heard on allegations against it. “Parliament and the Sugar Directorate in implementing the proposal are acting prematurely without the necessary legal and regulatory framework, the input consequent to public participation; without subjecting the process to due process as required by law and without consulting the petitioner.” The petition reads in part. More on this: Contraband sugar seized from Eastleigh contained mercury Also read: Duale defends Somalis after cops seize sugar in Eastleigh Click here for the latest political news 