Governors want Treasury CS Henry Rotich to reverse the Gazette Notice of slashing county allocation by Sh14 billion in the last financial year. In a letter to the Parliament, the governors said the move by the national government to slash county allocation funds from Sh302 billion to Sh288 billion violated the law. This means TreaaGovernors want Treasury CS Henry Rotich to reverse the Gazette Notice slashing county allocation by Sh14 billion in the last financial year. In a letter to Parliament, the county chiefs said the move by the national government to slash counties allocation funds from Sh302 billion to Sh288 billion violated the law. This means Treasury is still withholding the counties’ Sh84 billion, despite the lapse of the 2017-18 financial year. Further deduction of Sh14 billion from the total allocation brings the counties’ funds withheld by the exchequer to Sh70 billion. “The council notes with concern that the Treasury through a Gazette Notice signed by the CS illegally revised the county governments’ equitable share of allocation downwards from what the Division of Revenue and County Allocation of Revenue Acts 2017 had allocated counties in the 2017-18 financial year,” Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said in a letter on Monday. The Gazette Notice dated June 29 acknowledged that only Sh218 billion had been disbursed to counties. “There is a deficit of Sh84 billion yet to be disbursed based on the original approved Division of Revenue Act and County Allocation of Revenue Act 2018,” Nanok said. He said Rotich’s proposals were not tabled in Parliament for debate so the right procedure to slash allocation could be followed. “The council finds this downward revision illegal and in contravention of the legal instruments, which are Acts of Parliament,” Nanok said. The governors want Parliament to intervene so that counties can get all the funds they had budgeted for. Nanok urged the National Assembly and the Senate to intervene to “correct this illegality”. “Currently as it is, county governments have pending bills, which will be exacerbated if this illegality is not corrected,” he said.sury is still withholding the counties’ Sh84 billion, despite the lapsing of the 2017-18 financial year. Further deduction of Sh14 billion from the total allocation brings the counties’ funds withheld by the exchequer to Sh70 billion. “The council notes with concern that the national Treasury through a Gazette Notice signed by the CS illegally revised the county governments' equitable share of allocation downwards from what the Division of Revenue and County Allocation of Revenue Acts 2017 had allocated counties in the 2017-18 financial year,” Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok said in a letter on Monday. The Gazette Notice is dated June 29, 2018, acknowledged that only Sh218 billion had been disbursed to 47 counties. “There is a deficit of Sh84 billion yet to be disbursed based on the original approved Division of Revenue Act and County Allocation of Revenue Act 2018,” Nanok said. He said Rotich’s proposals were not tabled in Parliament for debate so the process to slash county allocation funds could follow the right procedure. “The council finds this downward revision illegal and in contravention of the legal instruments, which are Acts of Parliament,” Nanok said. The governors want Parliament to intervene so that counties can get all the funds they had budgeted for. Nanok urged the National Assembly and the Senate to intervene to "correct this illegality”. “Currently as it is, county governments have pending bills, which will be exacerbated if this illegality is not corrected,” he said.