Deputy President William Ruto yesterday lashed out at critics who have been castigating him for his huge and frequent donations to churches. He said they spend their money on witchcraft. “Some people have been criticising my frequent church attendance. But if you investigate these people very well, they use their money at night. They take their money to witchdoctors at night, but we take our money to church during the day for the work of God,” Ruto said. He spoke at AIPCA Patanisho in Kayole. Some leaders, including former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, have questioned the source of his enormous donations, which he makes nearly every weekend. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna is also among those who have raised similar queries. “How can somebody who is responsible for a country that is failing be doing so well in his private business? How comes that this business acumen cannot be translated into the country so that we all prosper? And when you ask, you are told he is a businessman,” he said. But yesterday Ruto, who gave the newly opened church Sh1.5 million, said, “They say I have been purchasing seats for churches. And because we do not ask them why they take their money to witchdoctors at night, they should leave us alone to give our money to church for the work of God.” “They should do their job and let us do ours.” He delivered President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Sh1 million donation. Read:I'm investing in heaven, you invest in funerals, Ruto tells critics Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu, who had accompanied the DP, accused Raila of creating a rift within Jubilee party. He said the party is steadfast and anchored on a strong agenda. “Those newcomers coming under the “handshake” led by Raila should understand that Jubilee is a house which was strongly built. Our agenda as is steadfast and was cemented in 2012, when Uhuru and Ruto joined hands,” Waititu said. “I’m telling you Mr Deputy President to be careful of this man called Raila. I have known him for many years and he wants you to close your eyes so he can play his tricks on you. As Uhuru finishes his term, you are next on line”. Waititu said leaders from Mt Kenya and Nairobi will help Ruto to clinch the presidency in 2022. Ruto urged all the arms of government to fight corruption. “[They] should do their job. We will ensure that every arm of government is properly facilitated so they can do their bit in moving our country forward,” he said. Last month, Ruto said he will submit himself to a lifestyle audit following the President’s directive. Ruto took a swipe at the media, saying they had already done a lifestyle audit of him. “The other day I saw the media trying to write something on what I own. Well…I thought they would continue the following day with another leader. But I saw nothing…it seemed the agenda was me because it started and ended [with] me,” he said. Ruto said the audit will put rumours and half-truths about his wealth to rest. The DP said there have been many rumours making the rounds on the media about what he owns and how he acquired his wealth. Also Read:[VIDEO] I don't need permission to 'tanga tanga', I must serve Kenyans - Ruto Click here for the latest political news