The Kenya Wildlife Service is planning to "up its game" in the fight against illegal wildlife trade by using sniffer dogs to nab containers in which trophies are transported. KWS, in partnership with World Wide Fund and Traffic, will use dogs assigned to enforcement officers to inspect the containers. “With the ever increasing sophistication and complexity of methods [used by] organised crime syndicates, [the organisations] are upping their game using new technology," said Mark Kinyua, who is the head of the canine unit at the service. "Trained officers will sample air from separate shipping containers without the need to open them." The air will then be transferred to sniffing pads for the dogs. Kariuki said the sniffing will be done in climate-controlled rooms to allow the dogs to work for long periods. One room can hold samples of many containers, allowing better working conditions for the animals and greater efficiency. The official noted that in the past, there were logistical challenges and the requirement of opening identified containers in the presence of their owners. “This took weeks. Given the fact that Mombasa port handles over 2,000 containers a day, the challenge from a purely logistical view was huge,” he said on Thursday. He further pointed out that the port has been identified by wildlife authorities and partners as one of the largest transport hubs for illegal wildlife parts as well as drugs and weapons. “Through WWF funding and on-ground help, KWS is raising its game in the fight against illegal wildlife trade, especially at identified hot spots such as Mombasa port,” said KWS wildlife ecologist Yusuf Wato. He added that through the use of the new technology, enforcement officers will be better equipped and trained to identify trafficked goods and ensure the successful prosecution of traffickers. Read: African giant rats to help 'sniff out' wildlife poachers Also read: Wildlife trophies trade still rampant in Kenya – report Click here for the latest political news