Kenya’s sugar industry will continue to enjoy protection from influx of imports from the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) region after securing a two-year extension for safeguards. The extension was passed at a resolution of COMESA Council of Ministers in Lusaka, Zambia. The current sugar safeguards will expire in February next year. Under the COMESA treaty, safeguard measures can be applied to domestic industries to protect them against international competition until they become mature and competitive. The push for extension was led by Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba, who is leading Kenya’s delegation to the 38th COMESA Council of Ministers and Summit in Lusaka. Ababu is with Trade PS Chris Kiptoo. He hailed the extension, saying it provides a fantastic opportunity for Kenya to revamp her sugar industry. “It has been a tough battle to get this two-year extension. We superbly articulated our position and it was adopted in a win-win situation for Kenya and the rest of the COMESA fraternity. I’m very pleased,” Ababu said. “It is very good for Kenya because it ringfences our sugar sub-sector from indiscriminate dumping.” Ababu said the government should make good use of the extension not to seek another in 2021. Ababu will represent Kenya at the start of meetings of the COMESA Ministers of Foreign Affairs. Among the issues on the agenda are regional peace and security, democracy and good governance. Kenya's sugar industry will continue to enjoy protection from influx of imports from the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) region after securing a two-year extension for safeguards. The extension was passed at a resolution of COMESA Council of Ministers in Lusaka, Zambia. The current sugar safeguards will expire in February next year. Under the COMESA treaty, safeguard measures can be applied to domestic industries to protect them against international competition until they become mature and competitive. The push for extension was led by Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba who is leading Kenya's delegation to the 38th COMESA Council of Ministers and Summit in Lusaka. Ababu is with Trade PS Chris Kiptoo. Ababu hailed the extension saying it provides a fantastic opportunity for Kenya to revamp her sugar industry. "It has been a tough battle to get this two-year extension. We superbly articulated our position and it was adopted in a win-win situation for Kenya and the rest of the COMESA fraternity. Am very pleased," Ababu said. "It is very good for Kenya because it ringfences our sugar sub-sector from indiscriminate dumping." He said the government make good use of the extension to ensure it does not seek another in 2021. Click here for the latest political news