Deputy President William Ruto wants due diligence by agencies probing the importation of contraband sugar for the sake of clear courses of action. Ruto emphasised on Friday that the government will not allow unscrupulous traders to thrive at the expense of local businesses. “We do not want investors who bring in sub-standard products that affect the health of Kenyans. We will do all we can to ensure quality standards are met wherever goods are brought into the country,” he said. The DP also noted that reports from Parliament and the DCI will help the government to take a “decisive step” in line with the protection of Kenyans' interests. He spoke at Joy Valley Special School at Kimatuni in Bumula, Bungoma County, to which he donated a bus. Regarding infrastructure, Ruto put on notice the contractor working on the 50 km Musikoma-Buyofu Road, saying any further delays will compel the government to cancel the work. “I am glad about the progress on Chwele-Lwakhakha Road. Importantly, I should let you know that the CT Scan installation at Bungoma County Referral Hospital will be completed in the next four months.”  Deputy President William Ruto during the presentation of bus to Joy Valley Special School in Bumula, Bungoma County, July 6, 2018. /DPPS The Deputy President lauded leaders from Western for rallying behind Jubilee, saying the days of old-school politics  - based on tribalism and division - were long gone. “We must unite and work together in pushing forward the development agenda. We competed last year but we shook hands thereafter for the sake of Kenya,” he noted. The DP criticised the electorate saying: "Wakati mnataka barabara mnatafuta Ruto lakini ukifika wakati wa kura mnasema Tibim (When you want roads you look for Ruto but say Tibim during elections)." Tibim was one of the phrases that was associated with the Opposition during campaigns ahead of the August 8, 2017 general election. Related: Ruto plots raids on Raila strongholds Also read: Raila to Ruto: 'Your presidency is not guaranteed, stop loitering' But he added that nobody should block opposition leaders from working with the government. “I know [Nasa Principal and Ford Kenya leader Moses] Wetang'ula is not far from us ... even [Bungoma Women Representative Catherine] Wambilianga and others. This is because these leaders want us to move forward together,” he said, noting that Western has been left behind because of politics that is not geared towards transformation. Ruto was with leaders including Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, MPs Wambilianga, Ayub Savula (Lugari), John Waluke (Sirisia), Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo). They supported his pronouncements on contraband sugar saying what is unfit for consumption should be destroyed. “We must fight sucartels with zeal. They are not only killing local sugar companies but also rendering our youths jobless,” Lusaka said. Wambilianga, who was elected on a Ford Kenya ticket, said she will work with the government to improve the lives of women in Bungoma. Her sentiments were echoed by Savula (Nasa), who said: “We need to organise ourselves politically as people from Western. We would like to be in the government. We said Tibim and Tialala but failed. We will bring Wetang'ula and [Nasa Principal and ANC leader] Musalia Mudavadi here to work with the government.” Opposition leader Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta shocked the world on March 9 when they resolved to work together for the sake of national healing and development after a tumultous election. Since then, leaders from the two sides have met and discussed how to work together. Read: Raila is now a senior state representative Click here for the latest political news    