“For a long time, some policy makers
have mistaken China for Santa Claus," Economist Aly Khan Satchu says. According to Satchu, China has demonstrated that its goal is its own growth
and Kenyans should not mistake its presence for anything like a win-win
situation. Kenya should consider its national interest in negotiations, he
advises. "There is a fundamental naivety about our engagement, evident in
contractual arrangements that favour China Inc egregiously,” he says. Citing the SGR, Satchu argues that just because China behaves more like an
ATM than our erstwhile partners, should not delude Kenya. “When push comes to
shove, they will do what they did in Sri Lanka." China took possession of the Hambantota Port and 15,000 acres of land for 99
years because Sri Lanka was unable to pay its debts. Kenya, he argues, needs to be more savvy in its negotiations. “It's clear as day that Africa and others have not only overpaid for Chinese
infrastructure but also most countries did not perform robust feasibility
studies. We paid too much and our return on investment is going to stay lower
for far longer than some of our own propaganda is prepared to admit,"
Satchu said. He called Sri Lanka and Zambia precursors of what might happen to Kenya.
"In Sri Lanka, the Chinese snaffled up the port. Zambian President Edgar
Lungu is seeking to renegotiate its loans. Those are the choices because the
numbers are not adding up,” he said. Kenyan manufacturers have blamed their declining fortunes on unfair
competition and market factors favouring imports over locally produced goods. Recent legislation has, however, tried to salvage what's left of the
manufacturing industry. Treasury CS Henry Rotich announced reduced electricity costs, higher duty on
selected imports, remission of duty and VAT exemptions on raw materials crucial
to the textile and clothing industries. Manufacturers in some special economic zones will now pay Sh9.07KwH, down
from Sh16.12. “Local companies have to deal with increased taxation, multiple levies,
charges and other non-tariff barriers. It's basically an inconsistent
regulatory environment that in the end impacts their competitiveness,” Kenya
Association of Manufacturers CEO Phyllis Wakiaga told the Star. None of the 400 Chinese firms in the country is registered with the
manufacturing lobby. Electronics traders along Nairobi's Luthuli Avenue have demanded government
intervention in Chinese trade operations. Some suppliers told the Star that the same firms that sell them products in
bulk have become competitors on the streets where they sell the same products
at lower prices. “Chinese wholesale their products and in turn we redistribute to other
traders outside town. For instance, when we buy 200 pieces of solar panels
(100W) for Sh10,000 each, we strive to sell at Sh11,000 to traders outside
major towns. The Chinese have, however, penetrated these regions, targeting our
customers to retail the same product at Sh9,800,” Paul Masaku of Teriki
Electronics said. The dealers say the Chinese have invaded their informal businesses. “It is unfair to wake up everyday hoping to sell to potential customers from
the streets, when the Chinese do that secretly from their warehouses or hidden
stores,” Masaku said.