Beer maker EABL's decision to set aside Sh2 billion for tax provisions saw the firm post a 15 per cent drop in profit for the year ending June 2018. EABL recorded a Sh7.3 billion profit down from Sh8.5 billion in the last financial year. Without the tax provision, EABL would have posted a 2 per cent bulge in profit, or Sh9.3 billion. The firm recorded gross profit of Sh32.4 billion, up from Sh31.1 billion in the year ending June 2017. Stockholders are set to receive dividends of Sh7.50 per share. Group finance and strategy director Gyuri Geiszl said at the firm's media briefing on Friday that EABL's operation costs went up 19 per cent. The rise was aimed at shaking off the election period jitters, which Geiszl insists was key to EABL's second half recovery. Overall, EABL's net sales grew by five per cent to Sh73.4 billion, from Sh70.2 billion in the last financial year. The beverage maker shook off slow business in the first half of the year which saw its profit after tax drop by 11.33 per cent to Sh4.95 billion, from Sh5.59 billion 12 months earlier. Volume performance in the second half shot up 10 per cent, its best performance in the last six years. The firm's revenues received a boost from its decision to extend production of some brands like Tusker in Uganda, which saved it millions in excise. EABL's Tanzania unit was the firm's star performer, recording a 41 per cent growth in sales. The beer maker's Serengeti brand was a big hit in Tanzania, as it sold 180 per cent more bottles than the previous financial year. Sales in Uganda grew by 4 per cent. Net sales in Kenya only grew by one per cent but the country remains EABL's biggest contributor, accounting for 73 per cent of business. In Kenya, the beer maker's Senator brand staggered following a partial plant shutdown for capacity expansion and the prolonged electioneering period. “We now have political stability which means business environment was friendly which means there was more money getting into the pockets of our customers. We have seen double digit growth in net sales value and profit. We have also seen our investments starting to pay off,” EABL chairman Charles Muchene said. The beer maker expects to start reaping benefits of its Sh7.8 billion plant in Kisumu in this financial year. Managing director Andrew Cowan said the new plant is also expected to create opportunities for 17,000 new sorghum farmers. 