ODM has hit back at Tourism CS Najib Balala for blatantly telling those calling for his resignation over the deaths of 11 rhinos to "go to hell". Secretary General Edwin Sifuna said the remarks have brought the presidency into disrepute after Balala said he is only answerable to the appointing authority - President Uhuru Kenyatta. "We feel it is important to remind CS Balala of the provisions of Article 73(1)(a)(ii) of the Constitution which states that "the authority assigned to a state officer must be exercised in a manner that demonstrates respect for the people," Sifuna said in a statement. This followed the CS' reaction to calls for his resignation over the deaths of 11 rhinos that were translocated to the Tsavo National Park. The CS said he will not be intimidated by people who he accused of
wanting to take over the national parks for their personal gain. He said his appointment was as a result of the president’s full
confidence in him to run the docket competently, a comment that elicited
a public outrage. "Nobody has appointed me. It is only [President] Uhuru Kenyatta who
has appointed me. So they can go to hell, I can tell them that.
[President] Uhuru Kenyatta is the only one who has appointed me here and
he knows I have the capacity to run the wildlife docket," Balala said. The
CS, who spoke in Mombasa after meeting Governor Hassan Joho in his
office, said those clamouring for his resignation want to take over the
national parks to solicit for donor funding for their lifestyles. "I’m going to stop it, once and for all," Balala said. See: [VIDEO] 'Go to hell', CS Balala tells critics amid probe into deaths of 11 rhinos Details: Kenya relocates endangered black rhinos to more secure habitat But in a quick rejoinder, Sifuna said the CS, by virtue of being a State officer, is subject to the tenets of the Integrity and Leadership Act. He said the law requires him (Balala) to "take personal responsibility for the reasonably foreseeable consequences" of the discharge of his duties. He said: "The death of the Rhinos was a clearly foreseeable consequence especially in light of the fact that it was unsanctioned by the Kenya Wildlife Service." Sifuna criticised Balala for shifting blame to junior KWS officers after he suspended six managers as he "arrogantly attempts to mask his incompetence in matters conservation". "CS Balala has laid bare his unfitness to hold the office he occupies and compounded it by showing disrespect to the people of Kenya, his real employers, and the only way to save whatever is left of his reputation is to resign," Sifuna said. Balala oversaw the translocation of 11 rhinos from the Nakuru and Nairobi National Parks to Tsavo East National Park sanctuary on June 26. Initially, eight rhinos died soon after arriving at the sanctuary in what the CS later attributed to multiple stress syndrome intensified by salt poisoning. Read: Balala suspends rhino transfers after eight die of salt poisoning He said dehydration, starvation, infection the respiratory tract (Pasteurella species), gastric ulcers and gastritis further complicated the situation. Two more rhinos died days later while a third was attacked by lions. On Friday last week, former KWS board chairman Richard Leakey appeared to blame Balala for the deaths saying they could have been averted had he [Balala] appointed a functional board to offer sound advise on the relocation. He said the board he led, and whose tenure ended in April, refused to relocate the animals - thrice. Black rhinos are an endangered species in Kenya whose population stood at 745 in 2017, according to KWS data. Sifuna said a proper inquiry needs to be initiated into the deaths of the rhinos for purposes of holding individuals found culpable criminally liable. Read: Leakey links rhino deaths to 'lack of functional board' at KWS Click here for the latest political news