Parents at Chewoyet Boys High School in West Pokot have protested hefty fees imposed on them to rebuild the dorm razed by fire. The school was closed last Monday after the dorm for 115 students was destroyed. The Longonot dormitory, was burnt at dawn when students had gone for their morning studies. No one was hurt. The cause of the fire is not yet known but the country is being swept by another wave of school arson. Nothing from the dormitory, including bedding, books, boxes and uniforms, was salvaged. Parent Domongole Abraham said they are required to accompany their children to school on Wednesday with the whole year’s school fees balance, a Sh3,000 fine to be deposited at KCB bank, new bedding and printing papers. “My child was not boarding in the dormitory that was destroyed by fire. Why should they impose a compulsory fine on all parents?” he asked. Domongole said the school has erred in imposing blanket punishment on all parents and they should have singled out students who were affected. “We will go to the county director of education to seek audience. We feel the school is taking advantage of the situation to get money from parents. It’s not fair because we don’t have money to buy the requirements within that short notice,” he said. Another parent, who sought anonymity, said the school should not impose hefty levies as collective punishment. Parents Teachers Association chairman Robert Otsula said the Education ministry has refused to rebuild the dorms destroyed by fires, mostly arson. He said the fine could have been reduced to Sh1,000 per parent and it’s wrong for the school to tell parents to clear the fee balance within a short time. “The school didn’t consult the PTA before deciding,” Otsula said. He said the Board of Management didn’t allow the PTA to meet before telling students and parents to go back to school in a week. “They just decided without consulting parents. We could have talked and agreed,” he said. Chewoyet acting principal Thomas Lemungole said all students are suspects and parents are supposed to share the damage and cost of construction equally. “The BoM came up with the hefty measures. Old bedding is to be replaced. The school has of 1,700 students. They did an evaluation of the destruction to arrive at Sh3,000 per student,” he said.