President Uhuru Kenyatta — the most followed Kenyan on Twitter — woke up on Friday with fewer fans than he had the night before. The head of state’s Twitter account was not spared in the purge on ‘fake’ accounts that has led to popular personalities globally losing as much as a million followers. The social media platform is removing locked accounts from follower counts to increase credibility. Uhuru had 3,234,935 followers as of July 12, but lost 16,071 of them in the purge. Deputy President William Ruto lost 7,211. ODM leader Raila Odinga, however, gained followers, from 1,923,245 on July 12 to 1,923,428.  bloggers not spared Bloggers Cyprian Nyakundi and Christian Dela’s number of followers were whittled down by half overnight. Nyakundi’s followers have declined from 1.2 million to 696,000, while Dela’s numbers stand at 521,000, down from one million. Some of the losers are among so-called ‘influencers’ who are paid huge amounts of money to post content on their pages. ‘@MisterseunPR’ said, “Just lost over a thousand followers. Twitter purge doing the most.” Jemo Munuhe, who lost three, said, “Fake it till you make it on these Twitter streets.” ‘@KinyanBoy’ reported losing 300 and noted that the numbers will decline for as long as the purge continues. In a statement, Twitter said most people will see a change of four followers or fewer and that larger follower counts will experience more significant drops. “We understand this may be hard for some, but we believe accuracy and transparency make Twitter a more trusted service for public conversation.” The company said follower counts may continue to change more regularly as part of ongoing work to proactively identify and challenge problematic accounts. Twitter said owners of accounts will not be able to log in unless they validate the accounts and reset passwords.  obama, trumps too On the global front, President Donald Trump and former President Barack Obama lost huge numbers of followers. Obama, who has the most Twitter followers of any former or current head of state, lost around 2.3 million followers from his @BarackObama handle — from 103.6 million Wednesday to 101.3 million Thursday. The @realDonaldTrump account had lost roughly 320,000 followers, from 53.4 million to 53.1 million. The official presidential account, @POTUS, saw a lesser drop of about 60,000 followers. US singer Katy Perry, the most-followed user on Twitter, and Lady Gaga lost about 2.5 million followers.