Khwisero MP Christopher Aseka has sponsored a motion for tabling in Parliament to compel President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration to ban importation of sugar. By phone on Monday, Aseka told the Star that the government should publish a “temporary ban” on sugar and “immediately’ suspend subsidies favouring importation in the Kenya Gazette. “We need to ascertain the quality of the sugar. If we don’t stop the importation, we will not zero down to qualities available in the country,” he said. “Subsidies granted in favour of importation of sugar from the Comesa region have been utilised to import sugar that is not certified as fit for human consumption from the country of production." The MP wants the government to implement the ban by invoking Article 52 of the Common Market of Eastern and Southern Africa treaty, Kenya being a member. “The treaty provides that a member state shall not grant a subsidy which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring the production of certain goods in a manner that affects trade between member states," reads part of the motion. Aseka noted that the ban will help establish amounts of sugar imported for industrial use and for human consumption. “The ban will also help us vet afresh sugar importers to weed out the unscrupulous ones who are taking advantage of the situation for personal gain and not for the common good of the nation,” he said. The motion is pending before the House Business Committee chaired by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, who is to include it in the agenda for MPs to discuss. It adds that the subsidy allowing importation threatens medium and small scale and medium sugar producers, thereby crippling the industry. National Assembly’s joint committees on Agriculture and Trade, co-chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega and his Mandera South counterpart Adan Haji, are investigating the importation of millions of tonnes of sugar that has been impounded in many parts of the country. “This sugar saga is a nightmare to everybody. If the joint committee recommends the ban; well and good. If it doesn’t include in its recommendations, I will still proceed with my motion,” Aseka said. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has claimed that MPs have been compromised and has proposed that Uhuruset up a judicial commission of inquiry to unearth the cartels. “The President is barely scratching the surface. The rot goes much deeper and the masterminds are buried below the proxies. It should be an inquiry devoid of witch-hunt. LeaderS and businesspersonsmust be held responsible for what they do," he said. Read: MPs cannot probe scam – Mudavadi Also read: Mudavadi right to call for sugar commission Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o, in an opinion piece published in Star last month, concurred with Aseka in calling on the ban, on grounds that barons have been “robbing” poor farmers of their birthrights. “The President should be brave enough to ban sugar imports so the barons are starved of their lifeline. The sugar industry will then thrive in Kenya because we shall be compelled to produce to meet our domestic needs,” Nyong’o said. “The myth of the need to import to meet the so-called shortage of 200 to 300 tonnes of sugar will be put to shame.” Related: Muhoroni Sugar run poorly – Nyong’o The Sugar Directorate report released in November last year showed that import volumes tripled to 971,212 tonnes from 290,256 tonnes in the same period in 2016. Aseka holds that the estimated one billion tonnes of imported sugar are many more than the 400 million shortfall so the ban will not hurt Kenyans. “What has been imported is enough to cushion the deficit and ensure the amount in local sugar industries is used. We don’t want a surplus at it will work against the interests of local factories,” he said. Click here for the latest political news