In the 1980s, the Kenyan textile industry was the second largest employer after the public service. That is no longer the case. At one point the many textile firms employed more than 500,000 people. Kisumu Cotton Mills (Kicomi), Rift Valley Textiles (Rivatex), Raymond and Thika Cloth Mills were household names that we never speak of today. The younger generation have no idea that a Raymond blanket was once the perfect gift during the cold season. In the mid-1990s, second-hand clothes imports flooded the market and spelt death for the textile industry. Soon, we started importing raw materials for clothing as the many textile companies started closing or scaling down. As a result, many Kenyans lost their jobs and their livelihoods as the economy suffered due to the cheap imports. Years later, we are yet to recover from what now appears to have been a poor decision of allowing mitumbas into the country. Kenya was processing enough sugar to export to its neighbours but today, we have to import more than a third for our consumption. At the same time, nearly all sugar firms have closed down and those operating cannot even afford to pay for sugarcane, leave alone their workers. Kenya used to be a leader in paper milling but not anymore. All hope lies on the revival of Pan Paper Mills, which roared back to life a year ago. Hopefully, this can also help other dead mills to rise again. But there is hope. In the last four years, some key car manufacturers have set up assembly lines in Kenya — Japan’s Toyota, Germany’s Volkswagen and France’s PSA Group, the maker of Peugeot. There is also a deliberate effort by government to grow manufacturing as outlined in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda. Manufacturing is one of the pillars and if we work towards it, we will definitely grow the economy as well as the welfare of Kenyans. One of the gaps in manufacturing has been the skill set gap as a result of the death of technical institutions. But Treasury has increased the amount allocated to technical and vocational training institutions from Sh6 billion to Sh16 billion in the 2018-19 budget. The money is to be spent on hiring 2,000 training instructors, capitation fees, construction of 15 new technical training institutions, curriculum development, and assessment and creation of certification centres. In addition, the government plans to cut the cost of off-peak power to heavy industries by half as a way of increasing production. The government is targeting the creation of at least 10,000 jobs in apparel, 50,000 in the cotton sector and increase exports by Sh20.49 billion. It plans to set up five million square feet of industrial sheds. The plan also involves expanding cotton farming to at least 200,000 hectares ( 1.2 million acres) and training 50,000 youths and women. To boost the leather industry in the next four years, the Big Four plan includes setting up 5,000 cottage industries and completing the Machakos Leather Park. Agro-processing and, especially, creating tea, dairy, meat and crops value-addition chains as outlined in the Big Four plan is another step in the right direction and a welcome move. The construction industry has been booming and yet we continue to import construction material. We must think of how to ensure construction materials are made and sourced locally. This is especially important with the Big Four plan on housing, where the government plans to have built at least 500,000 affordable houses by 2022. Having locally manufactured and sourced materials will make construction cheaper and the houses affordable. It’s basically killing two birds with one stone. All in all, getting manufacturing roaring again will definitely transform this nation.  Political and communications consultant