Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula on Saturday said they have formed a committee to spearhead the merger with Musalia Mudavadi's Amani National Congress. He reiterated that the NASA coalition is moribund and that the only way out is to ensure that he works together with Eugene Wamalwa and Mudavadi so that they forge ahead. The Bungoma senator regretted that they have supported ODM party leader Raila Odinga in his presidential bid three times "but he has betrayed them." "It is now time for Raila to give back, a good turn deserves another. We are tired of these games," Wetang'ula said. He added that NASA affiliate parties (ANC, Ford Kenya and Wiper) will strive to work together as much as ODM is now alone. "NASA is in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) but we are now focusing on Luhya unity. Let us all register in numbers as voters in readiness for the next general elections," he said. On July 16, Wetangula was quoted in sections of the media saying that NASA is dead but he would not join Deputy President William Ruto's camp. Wetang'ula said he has his own house (Ford Kenya) and will build it to make it stronger ahead of 2022. Speaking during the burial of Michael Magero in Bumala, Busia County on Saturday, Wetangula said that he is ready to traverse Raila's Nyanza stronghold as he is ready to form government with other communities in the next general election. "I will use the powers bestowed upon me to bring change, we shall not be ruled by one or two communities only. We from the Mulembe Nation are ready to work with other comminities and we hope that we are going to hold a strong pillar," Wetangula stated. Kimilili MCA David Barasa urged Wetangula, Eugene Wamalwa and Mudavadi to join hands and work as one. "We are fully behind you and we shall do as you say. Let us focus on pertinent development issues for the entire western region," Barasa said. Busia MCAs Moses Ochieng, Fred Musirimba, Azida Ali among others accompanied Wetang'ula. Also read: Uhuru succession: Pay Jaramogi, Raila's vote debt first - Nyanza MPs Click here for the latest political news