A man has sued Beta Healthcare and Kenya Bureaus of Standards over 'fake' Zoom Condoms that he alleges burst during intercourse. The man has told the court that the burst led to him infecting his wife, who has since left him, with a sexually transmitted infection. In his petition, he says that when he bought the condoms, he believed they would please his partner and also protect him fully but the condom broke. "That I was fully aware of the dangers of having unprotected sex and decided to use my favourite brand of condoms being the Zoom scented chocolate flavoured studded condoms which I believed would please the woman and protect me fully," he said. In his sworn affidavit, he claims that he contracted STI as a result of using the fake condoms which led him to infect his wife who has since left him for infecting her with the STI. "..that whilst I was having sexual intercourse with the woman the said condom broke a fact which I only realised after the act. That at the time, I brushed the incident as a non-issue and three days later I still had sexual intercourse with my wife," he said. The man also fears that he has been exposed to the HIV virus. According to him, BETA, KeBS and KRA allowed a consignment of ZOOM condoms which of questionable quality to be sold to unsuspecting Kenyans. In the affidavit, he says that on October 13, 2014, he began to notice some rashes on his private parts and pain while urinating. "That I became extremely worried and it was then that I remembered the condom burst that had taken place 9 days earlier. I immediately went to a traditional healer and sought some traditional herbal medicine which eased my pain," he said. "On or about 14th, I decided to return to Nairobi on or about 25th October. While on my way to Nairobi, I became seriously ill on the bus and had to seek for medical attention." He said that it was at the clinic that he was diagnosed with a sexually transmitted infection and was treated for the same. "I have since gone back to the clinic and obtained a medical report. That on 17th, my wife called and informed me that she had been admitted with an STI. My wife blamed me for being unfaithful and our relationship was strained afterwards." "My wife then became estranged and later left me for another man. After my wife left me, I became distressed burdened with guilt and even had a mental breakdown which led me to be an alcoholic and I lost my job." The man claims that he was later told by his friends that some of them had experienced condom breaks from the same brand of condoms. Click here for the latest political news