 The Glorious Revolution of 1688-89 in England replaced the
reigning king, James II, with the joint monarchy of his protestant daughter
Mary and her Dutch husband. This revolution also led to the coalescing of what
would become the Whig party that dominated British politics and remained in total
control of the government for decades until King George III came to the throne
in 1760, marking the return of the Tories back to power. To understand why James II’s most powerful subjects
eventually rose up in revolt against him and sent him to exile, one needs to understand
the deep-seated fear of 'popery' in Stuart England. 'Popery' meant more than just a fear or hatred of
Catholics and the Catholic Church. It reflected a widely-held belief in an
elaborate conspiracy theory, that Catholics were actively plotting the
overthrow of church and state. In their place would be established a Catholic tyranny,
with England becoming merely a satellite state, under the control of an
all-powerful Catholic monarch, then identified to be Louis XIV of France. A new crisis of ‘popery and arbitrary government' erupted
in the late 1670s, when public anxieties were raised by royal succession.
Charles II fathered no legitimate offspring, which meant the crown would pass
to his brother, James, Duke of York, whose conversion to Catholicism had become
public in 1673. Public concerns about the succession reached fever pitch
in 1678-81, when Whig politicians in Parliament promoted exclusion bills that
would have prevented James from succeeding to the throne. James II, however, managed
to ascend to the throne in February 1685. His reign, however, lasted only for a
few troubled years, as he was forced into exile in the late 1688. While in exile, the dethroned King James II still had
supporters back in England and Scotland, who continuously tried to find ways
for his return but all to no avail. Of interest, and the reason for this piece, it was widely
believed during this period that many in government secretly and even
treasonously supported James II. These are pages in British history we’ve borrowed; or, to
be more precise, shrewd politicians in Kenya have borrowed and used as
blueprint for their own political schemes we continue to witness to this day. For example, the efforts to prevent VP Daniel Moi to
succeed Jomo Kenyatta in the mid-70s was nothing but pages from the Whig
playbook of 1678, where the target was then James who, like Moi, outmaneuvered
the plotters opposed to him. Go back up and replace “Catholics” with “Raila” and “Catholic
Church” with the “Luos” and you’ll understand why the former PM has won at
least twice but has not become President. In that case, “popery” may as well be odingaism based on
ignorance or backwardness fueled by refusal to let go of non-existent tribal
superiority notions. When Moi made the inexplicable mistake to try and shove
then Minister for Finance down our throats as our next President in 2002,
smarter minds and the winds of change outwitted him. The period following James II’s exile, however, was
interesting because those in government then were often unsure how to treat
those supporting the return of James II to the throne because they were
concerned if they showed hostility towards them or otherwise frustrated them,
they could end up paying dearly were James II to return. The same fear no doubt grips many a politician as they try
to decide how to align themselves relative to William Ruto in the 2022 succession
game that’s already on knowing fully well where they stand will ride with the
fortunes or misfortunes of Ruto either becoming or not becoming President. So, what side of Ruto should one be relative to his
presidential ambitions? Coming soon on these pages.