Girls football Under-19 defending champions Wiyeta were yesterday shocked 1-0 by minnows Kwale Girls on Day Two of the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) Term Two Games at Hill School, Eldoret. Wiyeta’s defeat comes a day after an emphatic 11-0 win over Matuu Memorial on Day One. A first half goal from captain Elizabeth Kioko was all Kwale Girls needed to bag their first points in the championships. Kioko beat Wiyeta’s advancing Kenya junior international custodian Diana Tembesi with a well thought out slow chip into the net in the 36th minute before both sides played to a barren draw in the second half. “We expected a tough tie today (yesterday) and we are happy to have won. We cut out Wiyeta’s midfield, blocked their long balls too and the plan worked out to our advantage,” said Kwale Girls’ tactician Mukasa Amboko. Playing in the morning looked like a pre-match disadvantage for the coastal side in terms of altitude but the girls surpassed all expectations. Amboko deployed delaying tactics in the second half to curtail Wiyeta’s increasing pressure. “Our opponents piled pressure in the last 20 minutes, well aware that the high altitude here (in Eldoret) played to our disadvantage. However, we applied delaying tactics as the only strategy and things worked out. Each game is unique and as the underdogs here, history will count for nothing,” intimated Amboko. Wiyeta’s head coach Edgar Manyara attributed Kwale Girls’ delaying tactics to their loss. He said they are now focusing on today’s fixture against Arch Bishop Njenga, adding that they are familiar with each other and predicted a balanced game given their previous results. In the second pool ‘A’ fixture, Arch Bishop Njenga (Western) tore apart Eastern region’s champions Matuu Memorial 7-0 to book a semifinals berth with six points in their bag. Today’s matches between Kwale and Matuu, and Wiyeta vs Arch Bishop Njenga will determine the second semifinalist. In the boys’ U-19 challenge, North Eastern region holders Tarbaj were on the receiving end as Dagoretti High thrashed them 9-0 in a Pool ‘B’ match as Olbolsat (Central) and Shimba Hill (Coast) played to a 1-1 draw. This group is still open, as Dagoretti and Shimba Hills tie on four points. Olbolsat have two, whereas Tarbaj have zero. The determination of semifinalists will go down to the wire today. In the Copa Coca Cola U-16 football, Moi Girls Nangili beat Tartar 1-0, while Materdel lost 1-3 to Waa High. St. Anthony’s Boys Kitale humbled Kinondo 2-1 and Upper Hill defeated Olbolsat 1-0.