Nairobi governor Mike Sonko yesterday sent home three county officers – including his confidant – in his latest effort to reorganise his administration. Chief of staff Brian Mugo, said to be the governor’s most trusted ally and the man in charge of his diary, was suspended alongside acting chief finance officer Ekaya Alumasi and acting head of county treasury Stephen Mutua. This is the second time Sonko is suspending Alumasi. He had been sent away in February for “revealing confidential” information to a county assembly committee. Read: Sonko suspends top officers over misuse of funds, reshuffles executive He was recalled in May after the MCAs rejected Sonko’s nominee for the position. The county chief said he suspended the officers for misusing public funds and has sent their names to the DCI for further investigations. “In the meantime, I’m inviting the DCI to conduct further investigations. Those found guilty should face the full force of the law,” he said in a statement. Sonko also announced changes in his cabinet. He moved Trade executive Allan Igambi to Finance and brought on board Newton Munene to the Trade docket. Munene had been vetted and approved for the Finance docket, but had not been appointed. Land executive Charles Kerich has been serving as acting Finance executive since April. Igambi now becomes the fourth person to serve as Finance boss since October last year. Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo initially held the seat. Danvas Makori who was initially in the Agriculture docket replaced Kangogo. Makori was suspended in April and was finally sacked for allegedly “spying for Governor Sonko’s enemies”. Since taking over at City Hall in August last year, Sonko has sent home more than 300 officers over corruption claims. He had said the officers were part of the cartels defrauding the county and fleecing residents. In April, he sacked 30 procurement officers and in June suspended Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo for insubordination. She allegedly travelled to the US without the governor’s approval. In August last year, Sonko sent home seven finance officers after they were caught with Sh7 million cash — the previous day’s collection. In October, he suspended several officers in Land, Planning and Legal departments for alleged involvement in grabbing of houses on Ngong Road. Related: Sonko suspends Vesca Kangogo for traveling to US without permission More: Sonko suspends county imprest allocation over graft Click here for the latest political news