Oil marketers want the government to further increase tax on Kerosene to deal with fuel adulteration. The dealers said the recent increase on excise duty on the product, is inadequate to deal with adulteration which they said is on the rise. “We appreciate that the National Treasury has increased excise duty on kerosene by matching it to that of AGO (Diesel) at Sh10.31 per litre, however there is still a Sh19 per litre tax difference between the two so the vice remains profitable,” Petroleum Institute of East Africa chairperson Anne-Solange Renouard said. In his June 14 budget, Natonal Treasury CS Henry Rotich introduced a 43.03 percent excise duty per cent on Kerosene. Before the duty importers paid Sh7,205 for every 1,000 litres but will now pay Sh10,305, at par with petrol. This, Rotich said, would help reduce fuel adulteration. "The difference in the rates applicable to these two petroleum products has led to adulteration of the fuel products resulting in loss of excise duty revenue to the Exchequer,” he said. Poor households relying on kerosene for lighting and cooking will be the most affected if Parliament passes the Finance Bill 2018. The new taxes were put on old last week following separate suits filed by activist Okiya Omtatah and the Kenya Bankers Association The Energy Regulatory Commission has established that out of the 33 million litres of kerosene used in the country monthly, only five million litres actually goes into lighting and cooking. This means more than 81 per cent of kerosene used in the country is mixed with petrol or diesel to profit rogue petroleum distributors seek quick. In the process Kenya Revenue Authority loses approximately Sh34 billion in taxes. “We are also very hopeful that the ongoing efforts by the Presidential Task Force on Illicit Trade will hasten closure of the facilities where dumping and adulteration takes place,” Renouard said. Latest data hows Kerosene sales dipped by 20 per cent during the January-March period compared to the same time period last year. Although KenolKobil controlled majority of the overall market share including petroleum exports at 14 per cent, the firm came in third at 14.9 per cent on the local petroleum sales front. Vivo maintained its top position commanding 17.1 per cent of local sales followed by Total at 15.9 per cent. Renourd said the government should also regulate the lubricant market which has witnessed a decline over the years due to illicit trade. “Illicit trade in lubricants leads to tax evasion as well as a lot of damage on transportation, construction, agricultural and manufacturing equipment because recycled oils have very low equipment protection capabilities,” she said.