As we come to the end of the month of Julie, the only thing that can describe this month is cold weather, corruption en school unrest... The Kenyan winter will extend into mid-August, according to the weatherman, so don’t get rid of the winter outfits just yet... Plus this July has been recorded by the metrological department as the coldest since #TheRaverend was born #FACT... Another thing that’s never ending is corruption, with new cases of billions of shillings being lost in government en civil servants being found with close to a billion shillings in cash and investments on salary of less than 200k gross per month... With some corrupt suspects who have been guests of the state less than a week ago branding themselves as ROLE MODELS to the youth, as they parade their face for vetting by the parliamentary select committee... How does a a normal Kenyan who is out on bail still have the balls to to go for an interview to work for the same government that’s investigating him of corruption?... It’s like being caught cheating by your wife and mother-in-law, and then next morning you show up for ruracio... That’s “Ushenzi” in Atwoli’s voice!!! The handshake squad needs more than prayers if their resolve to fight corruption is too be realised, as case after case emerges... We have the issue of demolitions of properties built on road reserves that’s going on, with Kibera being the most affected, with schools not being spared, leaving students who have exams from Monday with no classrooms... Talk of misplaced priorities or a government that just doesn’t give a shit about the youth... Still on schools, over 50 high schools still remain closed due to the growing trend of school unrest, and apart from mentions from government officials, no concrete solution has been arrived at, meaning even though the schools were to be reopened today, chances are high the kids will still strike again... On the issue of Lisa Gaitho en bathing apes... to keep her man happy plus so that her man can splash cash/mornie on her... I believe she is entitlde to her own opinion en her own style of romance...Personally I don’t need or expect a woman to wash me or scrub my back... The last woman to wash me en scrub me live live “Kwa Plot 10” just before sunset... was my mother, back when I was four or five years old, en it was so traumatising... But if the man Gaitho is dating loves to be washed in a basin like a baby, that’s their cup of tea...So all the feminists en dudes who jumped on her TL, abusing/insulting her, you all need to get a hobby or something... Gaitho in her vlog never held a gun to anyone’s head, forcing them to watch or follow her Romaric gospel... So let her prosper...Whatever you call romantic can be disgusting to another but that doesn’t give anyone the right to judge... This is the 21st century, and in the spirit of freedom of equality and expression, everyone has a right to speak/vlog/tweet whatever they want... As for the women Who attacked Mrs Gaitho instead of engaging her constructively, you all are hating on your own agenda en bogging down the struggle for gender equality...Women, you all need to rise above jealousy and hate... Women need to be more united and celebrate each other to survive... Shooting each other down or beating the chick you find sleeping with your man will only destroy all the gains the 21st century women have made!!! With that said, let’s all meet at USA concert at the Carnivore en enjoy great African music, en if you’re in Mombasa, check in to Tapas Cielo en have a drink on Sam or Sheeba lounge, en tell me how the new set-up looks like after the renovations...