One person was shot dead in Isinya town on Sunday after the driver of the Rongao Sacco matatu he was traveling in ignored a police roadblock. Police said the vehicle, registration number KAP 643 P, was heading to Kajiado town when its driver sped off after it was flagged down. Isinya OCPD Henry Ibutu said the person had been "driving suspiciously". "All this happened at around 1 am. My officers followed immediately in a patrol car but a few kilometers before approaching Umma University Campus, the driver made a u-turn and drove back to Isinya," Ibutu said. He said that when the matatu approached the roadblock again, the officers placed spikes on the road. “The driver failed to stop so my officers kept chasing the matatu that had flat tyres. When it approached the town, the driver and three other people escaped, leaving 11 passengers inside". Kajiado County Commissioner David Kipkemei said police opened fire when "suspicious people" started running away from the vehicle and that it was then that the man was killed. Kipkemei said three knives, a home-made gun, five bottles of Brandy, 46 rolls of bhang and five grams of raw marijuana were recovered from the vehicle and the 11 people taken to Isinya police station. “I have issued a stern order for officers manning road blocks, especially in Isinya, to be vigilant," he said, citing the theft of livestock. "My officers acted in order in attempting to stop the car." The Commissioner said the 11 people will be arraigned on Monday but did not specify the charges they will face. Kipkemei said he also instructed Kajiado DCIO Daniel Ndambuki to carry out thorough investigations on events before the shooting and the motives of the people in the matatu. The vehicle was towed to the station. Relatives of the arrested people claimed they had been framed. “The young men had been going to perform at a concert in Bissil town near Namanga town when police started trailing them. They decided to go back and report the matter to police but the officers opened fire and killed one of them," said one who requested anonymity. Click here for the latest political news