Competition
Authority of Kenya has allowed Vivo Energy to
acquire Engen International
Holdings and its 15 petrol stations across the country. The Netherlands-based company will therefore acquire
100 percent of the issue share capital of the Mauritius-based Engen. In a statement on Tuesday, the authority said it analysed and permitted the transaction as the two companies
are involved in the importation and sale of petroleum products. The agency said it considered relevant markets by looking at traffic flow patterns, retail outlets, distances between stations and transportation means. "Geographical location was an important element because it would result in serious anti-competition consequences, denying consumers choice in given areas," Director General Wang'ombe Kariuki said. He added that the
transaction was unlikely to lessen or prevent competition in the participation of oil marketers in the
industry since it was an open bid process. An analysis by the authority
concluded that 13 of Engen's local markets did not show
likelihood of raising the competition concern if the transaction was
approved. The distance between
the acquiring party's stations and target's stations is significant
enough, at least 3km apart, according to the CAK. The authority also
stated that the close proximity of Total and Kenol Kobil will offer
vital competitive restraint. Upon completion of
this transaction, over 300 Engen-branded service stations in Africa
will be added to Vivo Energy’s network, taking its total presence
to over 2,100 service stations across 24 African markets. Engen CEO Yusa
Hassan said: “Engen is excited to enter into this strategic
undertaking with Vivo Energy, which is clearly aligned with our
growth aspirations in Africa. We will seek to build on each other’s
strengths from this collaboration for the benefit of our customers
across the continent.” In 2017, Vivo Energy acquired Engen's assets in nine countries in Africa including Kenya. Vivo Energy trades in Kenya under the Shell brand. Click here for the latest political news