Amnesty
International is opposed to the death sentence handed to prison beauty queen Ruth Kamande. Kamande was convicted on Wednesday after she was found guilty of killing
her boyfriend Farid Mohammed in 2015 by stabbing him 22 times. The organisation
wants the death sentence to be commuted and for 24-year-old Kamande
to be rehabilitated. "Amnesty
International opposes the death penalty in all cases without
exception regardless of the nature of the crime, the characteristics
of the offender, or the method used by the state to kill the
prisoner," it said in a statement on Friday. Executive Director
Irungu Houghton said that the death penalty was a violation of the
right to life. "It is the
ultimate cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment," he said. Irungu further added
the organisation was concerned that the country continued to use the 'outdated'
mode of punishment. "This sentence is
a blow to Kenya’s progressive record in commuting death sentences
to terms of imprisonment." Irungu claimed that
there wasn't any credible evidence that the death penalty deters
crime any better than other lawful punishments. Read: Who will hang prison beauty queen Ruth Kamande? Judge Jessie
Lessit, when giving her ruling, said Farid was killed in a calculated manner. She further held that Kamande did not appear
to have suffered any anguish, hence deserved a death penalty. The judge further said it was a lesson to young people not to kill their partners but instead walk away and forgive when a relationship breaks down. Though the Supreme Court has ruled that the death sentence is not
mandatory, judges have discretion to impose it in cases of grievous
crimes. No executions have been carried out in Kenya since 1987 when Kenya
Air Force senior private official Hezekiah Ochuka and Pancras Oteyo
Okumu were hanged for treason. In 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed commutation documents
turning all death sentences into life jail terms. Invoking the Power of Mercy provided by Article 133 of the
Constitution, Uhuru also signed a pardon warrant and released 102
long-term convicts. Read: Uhuru commutes all 2,747 death row convictions, pardons 102 Click here for the latest political news 