Watches have evolved over the years, with advancement in technology giving buyers an ever-expanding choice. Garmin wristwatches are purpose-built for sports or outdoor use. The sports version comes with more than 15 pre-loaded GPS and indoor sports apps, including yoga, running and swimming. Other features include a compass, altimeter and thermometer. These apply to both indoor and outdoor activities. It also has a battery life of up to seven days in smartwatch mode and 13 hours in GPS mode. Charles Ndegwa, the Car and General Nairobi branch manager, said, “A Garmin sports watch blends in as an accessory that supports a sports culture and healthy eating habits. The watch has a fitness monitoring tool that enables you to set achievable goals, for example, to take a number of steps each day and track your progress. To make it fun, groups can be formed to motivate participants to attain goals.” The watch can be synchronised with the user’s smart phone, through which applications are downloaded. Having paired the two,  alerts for incoming calls, texts, emails, calendar items and notifications from social media are displayed, or a gentle vibration is felt. You can also listen to music through your music player. The phone acts as a databank for all the information transferred from the watch every 24 hours. This keeps you updated on your exercise progress and poses a challenge to increase your goal. The wrist heart rate technology measures your heart rate and monitors key aspects of your fitness and stress to show how your body responds under various circumstances. The data collected provides an automated calculation of calories burned and quantifies the intensity of your fitness activities. For stressful days at work, it monitors your heart rate variability to determine your stress level. Outdoor sensors on the watch include GPS, Glonass satellite reception and a 3-axis compass. GPS also doubles as a security feature through which friends and family can track your activities in real time through the live track app.