Two MPs nearly came to blows at Parliament Buildings yesterday after they disagreed about Deputy President William Ruto. Wajir Woman Representative Fatuma Gedi could not tolerate remarks by Tiaty MP William Kamket, who asked why she was backing the DP for President in 2022. Kamket, who is not known to support the DP, is said to have received a thorough tongue-lashing from Gedi, who almost bashed him with a sugar bowl. “Amenizoea sana and today I couldn’t take it anymore,” she was overheard saying. ***** On matters security, Corridors is wondering if DCI chief George Kinoti is aware of a senior City Hall official who is fond of bragging of high connections at the Kiambu Road headquarters. The Nairobi county employee has been telling anyone who cares to listen how any corruption complaint leveled against him will flop because of his connections. The chickens could come home to roost soon, however, after his juniors vowed to seek audience with Kinoti to table incriminating evidence of corruption against their boss. The juniors are angered by his habit of always reminding them of how powerful he is and how he enjoys the goodwill of a section of the Nairobi county executive board members. ***** Is there a well-oiled campaign by some interested parties against Kenya Power? Top managers at the firm believe some of the companies supplying goods and services there are behind the so-called corruption exposé, trying to ensure that some of their competitors are driven out of business. They claim these companies behind the smear campaigns are also bitter because they lost out on business. Further, these companies are linked to some top officials at the mother ministry and Kenya Power. So who will win here and how? We’re watching. Insiders say Kenya Power has some bureaucratic processes that make it impossible for one to steal. ***** Is there a police crackdown in Pangani? The area has been known as a hotspot for police swoops as it borders Eastleigh and Desai areas. Whilst police have been warned against profiling communities, there has been a heavy police presence from the Pangani police station stretch all the way to Mlango Kubwa stage. Some of the vans carrying heavily armed police officers are seen parked in strategic areas. Perhaps the county government is indeed looking to tighten security. Click here for
the latest political news