Who leaked information about a meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto to the media? We are told the person wrote the notes and gave them to two Sunday papers on condition that they published them without editing. It is not clear what agenda the person wanted to achieve, but the leakage has left State House unhappy that the story seamed to create an impression that President Kenyatta was under siege. ***** Is there another scandal in the making at the Ministry of Transport? One of the five PSs has been anointed to lead the Bus Rapid Transit project and negotiate for the purchase of high-capacity buses even after the Senate disapproved the same. Despite an earlier Sh500 million allocation for purchase of 59 buses, senior officials are rumoured to have scaled it down to 30. Questions are being raised why the deal is being given to a South Africa firm, yet we have local companies like Isuzu which sold buses to Tanzania recently. Transport PS Paul Maringa has some explanation to do here. ***** If  you thought President Uhuru Kenyatta is about to slow down on his resolve to fight corruption, think twice. The Head of State, we are told, is pushing on the fight and has vowed to ensure it succeeds no matter the casualties. The President, we are told, is fed up with the outright theft of public resources and the unexplained wealth by some of his Cabinet members. ***** A city hospital is considering ways of handling a formal protest from a former journalist-turned-politician in a medical negligence case involving his daughter and the hospital. Josiah Murigo is said to have been annoyed by the arrogance of the management who claimed to be politically correct and feared no one. Our mole close to the young politician told the Corridors the young man expects a fierce battle and is well-prepared. ***** What became of the much-talked about merger between Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party and Moses Wetang’ula’s Ford-Kenya?  We are told that the two parties have lost steam in their push for a merger. Those in the know tell us the joint committee mandated to draw up merger plans has not met in a long time and it is not clear if it will meet again. Some of the members have told Corridors that the idea seams unworkable because both parties have interests that they are not willing to compromise on. Click here for
the latest political news 