In the best of times, examinations, whether national or internal, cause or should cause some stress. For the unquestionably bright student as well as the average one, some stress or anxiety is good. It lubricates the mind. It shows that the student knows what s/he has been up to for the period s/he was learning and preparing for the exams. It is perfectly normal, therefore, to feel stressed in the lead-up to or during an exam. This motivates you, helps you complete tasks more efficiently and boosts your memory. Like stage fright in public speaking, stress, a little stress, helps to fortify the mind and intellect to deal with the approaching exam. It need not make any student violent. We can — as an educated community — also jointly help guard against exam phobia. Students should understand that the curriculum is not just for gifted children but for the ordinary child as well. It was designed with the knowledge that every child has an innate capacity to understand it. The national curriculum is a set of subjects and standards used by primary and secondary schools so children learn the same things. It covers what subjects are taught and the standards children should reach in each subject. Society cannot set up tasks to make students trip or fall. This does not serve the best interests of society or the students. An exam is based on the topics in the syllabus, which is widely available to the schools, teachers and possibly even the students. The government has approved textbooks which interpret and put the topics, ideas, concepts in progressive order from the simplest to the more complex. We have teachers who teach the prescribed curriculum. Theirs is not to prepare students for exams, important though it might be, but to impart knowledge, skills and attitudes the learners will need when he comes of age. The best we can do for the children is to ensure that there is qualitative teaching, as provided for in the whole architecture of education policy, legislation, standards and curricula. The men and women who design educational policy, legislation, standards and curriculum want to see the innate potential of every learner nurtured to the fullest possible extent. The potential is best developed and stretched through exposure to knowledge and skills that develop the intellect, the heart and the soul of the learners. The whole apparatus of education is not about terrorising children. The golden thread through education policy, legislations, standards, and curricula is that teaching and learning will be qualitative and not quantitative. That it will not so much about how much students have learnt, important though it might be, but how well they have learned the prescribed curriculum. Knowledge and skills taught in school are cumulative. These provide the background and foundation to progressively acquire more sophisticated knowledge and skills. Students can manage and cope with the stress and anxiety that is associated with exams by electing to have the necessary motivation to learn—guided by their teachers. Nobody likes the anarchy that hits this country during the second term of the school calendar. The learners don’t gain anything from it. They lose valuable instruction hours when schools close following anarchy or threat to riot. Parents similarly lose as they are forced to spend money to finance the repair of the damage their children cause to school property. Policymakers lose as they spend valuable time they would have used addressing other pressing issues that consolidate the gains Kenya has made in improving access, equity and quality of education. As I have said nobody gains out of this teenage delinquency. It undermines the energy, time and money education policymakers are putting in to ensure that children get value for the investments the country is making in education. Exams, whether internal or national examinations, are not a death sentence to revolt against, least of all by destroying property.