Going through stories on the World Cup extravaganza in the past one month, I realise the media missed the story of Russia 2018. And that is that Africa won the World Cup, at least by default. It doesn’t matter that out of the 38 teams Africa had only four, which were thrashed in the elimination stages. It does matter, however, that out of the 736 players, those of African lineage could well have been three-quarters of that total. And the team with most authentic Africans, France, won the World Cup. But fans will say the Cup is not won by proxy and there was no African diaspora team on the list. They will correctly claim participation is by country not race. They will argue Africa’s only hope was the Senegalese Teranga Lions, who lost unfairly to Japan on a Fair Play Rule which means punished for playing roughly. The dry spell of Africa’s (not African) teams in the world’s most popular extravaganza is a direct result of Fifa’s brutal and punitive qualification rounds, which leaves fewer slots for the continent. This condemns better teams such as Ghana, Cameroon, and Ivory Coast to pretender roles. But there is the other reason; colonial and independent Africa economic deprivation has distorted investments in and retention of sports talent. The consequence has been that talent transfer didn’t end with slavery. It intensified in the post-colonial era as the European commercial attraction is irresistible to budding talent in Africa. The export of African talent to the Americas and Europe via slavery and latter-day economic refugee migration has had two opposing impacts. Slave descendants have affirmed their superiority in sports. From the dusty football grounds in the crime-infested slums of Rio, the backstreet drug violence-prone basketball courts of the USA and Canada to the grey alleys of Europe, children of colour have excelled in football, athletics and boxing. Football talent exports, while denying Africa homegrown creativity, have been a bonus to their countries of adoption as well as the continent. They however lack coordinated and unified consistency in international outings as they don’t have time to bond and blend their artistry. But this loss is cancelled by the black consciousness diplomacy, whose result has been an upsurge of black political leadership in Caucasian lands and whose pinnacle was US President Barack Obama. Obama landed in Kenya on the same day the World Cup trophy was won by a largely African French team against an all-Caucasian Croatian team. That was telling. Obama could well have been bringing the Cup home when he inaugurated the Sauti Kuu Foundation for nurturing sports talents in Kogelo. It evoked memories of Pan-Africanists Marcus Garvey and George Padmore. I never went through pangs of disappointment when Morocco, Egypt, Nigeria, Senegal and the South American teams exited the field. To me, race was the guide. I supported any team that was dominated by black players. That way I lost nothing in transferring my racial pride from team to team. And I won. Hence, my tears of ecstasy on Sunday were not for France but the centuries-old African spirit of perseverance and persistence. Deep down, I know neither celebrant France nor Europe won the World Cup. Africa won the cup for them through those hilarious African boys.  kibisu.kabatesi@gmail.com