Five Ukambani MPs yesterday criticised those opposed to Deputy President William Ruto’s tours across the country. They said Ruto has the right to visit any part of the country “as he wishes”, since he is the DP. The legislators said the DP’s ‘tanga tanga’ trips are not political, but development-oriented. They were Victor Munyaka of Machakos Town, Rachael Nyamai of Kitui South, Nimrod Mbai of Kitui East, Fabian Kyule of Kangundo and Vincent Musyoka of Mwala. Munyaka, Nyamai and Mbai were elected on the Jubilee Party ticket, with Kyule and Musyoka on the Muungano and Maendeleo Chap Chap tickets, respectively. The legislators promised to support Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. They spoke at Ngunga Catholic Church in Matungulu, Machakos. The MPs accompanied the DP to the church, where he opened St Chavara Girls’ High School. “We cannot sit back and wait for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term to end in 2022 for us to start looking for the next President. We have to do it now,” Mbai said. Kyule said he supports the Jubilee administration as it had launched several projects in his constituency. He said Kangundo had lagged behind in development for ages. “Jubilee Party is organised with Ruto as the Deputy President. Let’s join his 2022 presidential campaigns. He is closer to the presidency,” Nyamai said she is confident Kenyans are aware that Jubilee is focused on development. “Raila joined Jubilee and Kalonzo has just joined too. We have worked with Ruto and we are praying that he becomes the next President in 2022,” she said. Munyaka said Kambas cannot afford to waste five years of development opposing the government. He said “Nasa’s Canaan” was Jubilee since Raila Odinga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka have joined the government. “History is repeating itself. Between 1975 and 1976, there was an attempt to change the Constitution so that retired President Daniel Moi does not become the President. Now, there are plans to change the Constitution so that Ruto does not become the President,” he said. Musyoka said gone are the days when a few people sat and decided for the voters who the next President would be. He said Kenyans will not be forced to vote for an individual as President in 2022, simply because “his father, mother or grandmother was once President”. “Ruto is my choice for President in 2022. All leaders can access him. Why do we put ourselves in a trap to elect people who will be unreachable if voted into office?” Musyoka asked. “You can change the Constitution but cannot change people’s voting patterns.” The Mwala MP said there are people trying to destabilise Ruto and Uhuru so that the DP can lose the Kikuyu votes.