Did some lawmakers refuse to sign the joint committee report that ruled out the presence of mercury in ‘contraband’ sugar last week? Corridors has learnt that there was a sharp split among members of the team with one faction accusing the other of being manipulated by the sugar barons to keep them in business through a favourable report. Our mole intimated that the disgruntled members who refused to sign the report are quietly plotting to write a dissenting recommendation to the one tabled in the Assembly by Kieni MP Kanini Kega. This sugar must be really, really poisonous. ***** That panic has hit the Council of Governors is not news. What is new is what some of the bosses are doing after their colleague from Busia, Sospeter Ojaamong, was arrested and charged with corruption and abuse of office last week. One governor from Rift Valley has ordered people close to him to review all his first term deals and ensure they are all regularised. That includes forging minutes to reflect everything as above board where necessary. ***** Guess who? Corridors is informed that in August when IEBC commissioners were pulling in different directions and were so unhappy and fed up with one another, they derisively referred to one of their colleagues as a mad man. Why? Because the commissioner isolated himself and did not trust anyone. Your guess is as good as any. ***** A newly appointed female board member at a parastatal in the energy sector has become the talk of town. Reason? The flamboyant woman stormed into the company’s cash office demanding Sh67,000 refund she purportedly used to ‘mobilise’ media during a recent activity of the board. She was overheard saying she had delivered a positive story on the board chairman and should be paid. A section of the secretariat staff is still astonished. ***** Just how did Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers carry out investigations, compile and release a report on the alleged defilement at Moi Girls School that concluded it wasn’t a rape but an assault by fellow lesbians? Those in the know told Corridors the hurried publication of the report — without reviewing medical reports — was designed to preempt ongoing investigations by the DCI and cleanse the school’s name. In return all teachers at the school would enroll with Kuppet and boost the Nairobi chapter, which is currently weak. The report has irked parents and various associations that have since called on the DCI to investigate Kuppet as well as the teachers at the school with a view to holding them to account for trying to interfere with investigations.