Beleaguered Kenyan referee Aden Marwa has been banned for life from all football related activities on the continent after the Disciplinary Board of the Confederation African Football (CAF) found him guilty taking bribe. The towering official was captured on video receiving a US$ 600 (Sh60,000) bribe in a BBC expose last month, which saw him relinquish his duties at the ongoing Fifa World Cup. Prior to the reputation denting expose, Marwa, 41, was deemed as peerless locally but the committee found him to have breached the code of conduct by accepting monetary ‘gifts’ which amount to bribe. The expose, by controversial Ghanaian journalist Anas Aremayiew, who offered Marwa the bribe while purporting to be a Ghanian Football Association official in January put him on the spot alongside Kwesi Nyantakyi who until then served as CAF’s first vice president and the Ghanaian FA president. The aftermath of the expose saw Nyantakyi resign in his capacity as a Caf official and the president of the Ghanaian FA while Marwa, who has since kept a low profile, opted out officiating at the World Cup which would have been his second after the 2014 finals held in Brazil After the expose the Kenyan Football Referees Association (KEFORA) president, GMT Ottieno and head of referees at the Football Kenya Federation, Sylvester Kirwa defended Marwa against the graft allegations and asked Kenyans to await for investigations to be completed. However, the Caf committee over the weekend slapped Marwa with a life long ban from any activities anchored under the umbrella of Caf. Caf. 10 more officials were also suspended for durations raging from two to 10 years while a further 11 are still under investigations. Beleaguered Kenyan referee Aden Marwa has been banned for life from all football related activities on the continent after the Disciplinary Board of the Confederation African Football (CAF) found him guilty taking bribe. The towering official was captured on video receiving a US$ 600 (Sh60,000) bribe in a BBC expose last month, which saw him relinquish his duties at the ongoing Fifa World Cup. Prior to the reputation denting expose, Marwa, 41, was deemed as peerless locally but the committee found him to have breached the code of conduct by accepting monetary ‘gifts’ which amount to bribe. The expose, by controversial Ghanaian journalist Anas Aremayiew, who offered Marwa the bribe while purporting to be a Ghanian Football Association official in January put him on the spot alongside Kwesi Nyantakyi who until then served as CAF’s first vice president and the Ghanaian FA president. The aftermath of the expose saw Nyantakyi resign in his capacity as a Caf official and the president of the Ghanaian FA while Marwa, who has since kept a low profile, opted out officiating at the World Cup which would have been his second after the 2014 finals held in Brazil After the expose the Kenyan Football Referees Association (KEFORA) president, GMT Ottieno and head of referees at the Football Kenya Federation, Sylvester Kirwa defended Marwa against the graft allegations and asked Kenyans to await for investigations to be completed. However, the Caf committee over the weekend slapped Marwa with a life long ban from any activities anchored under the umbrella of Caf.