The National Hospital Insurance Fund was started in 1966 under the NHIF Act, Cap 255 of Kenya. Cotu (K), then led by secretary general Senator Clement Lubembe, was instrumental in establishing the NHIF, now the oldest public insurance scheme in Africa. The fund was established as a department under the Ministry of Health. The original Act was reviewed and NHIF Act No 9 of 1988 came into place to establish the fund as an independent state corporation. Monthly contribution to the fund then was between Sh30 and Sh160. Membership to the NHIF is mandatory for all Kenyans in formal employment and voluntary to all Kenyans in informal employment. The current principal membership is six million workers, out of which 2.5 million are from the membership of Cotu (K) and the remaining 3.5 are from public institutions and self-sponsored membership. This proves the level of mischief in government by pushing a Bill in Parliament to remove Cotu (K) representatives from the NHIF board. The Statutes Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No 2 ) National Assembly Bill No 13 of 2018: Proposed Amendments to the NHIF Act No 9 of 1998 is a retrogressive bill that does not recognise the true owners of funds at the NHIF, the workers represented by Cotu (K). Currently the NHIF has a board of 12, workers have two slots—Cotu (K) and Knut. This has to be retained as workers’ money must be guarded by workers themselves. The money we are talking about that some politicians are salivating for is workers’ money collected between June and December 2017. The NHIF collected Sh23.2 billion, translating to approximately Sh4 billion monthly. The target of those behind the erroneous bill is the NHIF’s total assets base that now stands at more than Sh30 billion. The proposed amendments affect majorly the composition of the board of NHIF where workers and employers have been removed and the Cabinet Secretary given powers to appoint five persons apparently ‘with knowledge and experience on the subject matter’. The 2018 Bill states that; ‘five persons appointed by the Cabinet Secretary based on relevant knowledge and experience on the subject matter.” Replacing the current state that allows for social partners to have representatives as follows; (g) one person nominated by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions; (h) one person nominated by the Kenya National Union of Teachers; (i) one person nominated by the Kenya National Farmers Union (J) two members appointed by the minister as follows— (i) one person nominated by the Association of Kenya Insurers; (ii) one person nominated by non-profit making health-care providers; Section 4( 1 )(f) NHIF Act No 9 of 1998 The bill contains other amendments largely procedural and administrative to which we have no objection. As a country we must remain the trendsetter in the region. Our position remains that Cotu (K) representatives must be in the board to safeguard the interests of workers in the fund. Secretary general Cotu (K)