Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi has rooted for a strong cooperative movement in every sector in society that will enhance developments and empowerment of farmers. He said cooperative movements have the potential to contribute to poverty reduction and wealth creation. Kiraitu urged farmers, producers, dealers as well as traders of various produce including Miraa, Potatoes and Bananas to form or join cooperatives that will effectively safeguard their interests, particularly in marketing and value addition. The Governor said as a member of the movement and a shareholder of several SACCOs, his administration through the Department of Cooperatives, Enterprise Development & Tourism was keen to strengthen the cooperative movement. "We fully support the cooperative movement. I am one of you. My leadership will work with you so that we empower our people through wealth creation," Kiraitu said. Kiraitu was speaking to Members and leaders of Cooperative Unions and SACCOs at Maili Tatu stadium in Igembe Central during this year's Ushirika Day Celebrations on Saturday. He said his recent visit to Canada was an eye opener in potato production saying he learnt how the Canadian farmers were able to preserve their harvest for more than a year without perishing. "We shall carry out research to ensure we plant the right varieties of potatoes because the current varieties that we have are not able to survive for long in store,"he said. He urged Miraa farmers in Igembe South, Igembe North and Tigania East to form Miraa Cooperative Societies to manage the produce. Governor Kiraitu at the same time hailed the leaders and residents of Likiau Land Adjudication section in Tigania East and Igembe Central for their resolve to withdraw the long-standing boundary and land disputes that have been hampering land titling processes in the area. The Governor was accompanied by Senator Mithika Linturi, area MP, Kubai Kiringo, Meru County Secretary Rufus Miriti, MCAs among others. Read: Kiraitu launches 21 Ward committee members to spearhead managing Sh20 million Click here for the latest political news