The Supreme Court has declined to hear an appeal by London-based Glencore Energy seeking Sh4 billion compensation from Kenya Pipeline Company for lacking in “public interest”. The five-judge bench ruled that the issues raised by Glencore are not of general public importance that require interpretation. Glencore had sought to challenge the Court of Appeal’s decision to overturn its Sh4 billion award. The case arose from a dispute between Clencore and fugitve billionaire Yagnesh Devani’s Triton Petroleum Company. Triton withdrew oil worth over Sh7 billion from KPC storage facilities and sold it to marketers but collapsed shortly afterwards. Glencore, one of the firms that had funded Triton, sued KPC arguing that the state agency was at fault for not informing financiers that it had released the oil for sale. Chief Justice David Maraga (pictured), Philomena Mwilu, Smokin Wanjala, Njoki Ndung’u and Isaac Lenaola have now ruled that the scandal arose from two private agreements—one between Triton and KPC and another between Triton and Glencore. “The determinations by the two courts below of the legal issues of whether there was bailment by attornment; whether incorporation by reference is part of the law of Kenya; and the alleged unconstitutional deprivation of property as framed by the applicant were based upon the peculiar facts of the case,” the judges said. “They are therefore not substantial points of law the determination of which will have a bearing on public interest. In the circumstances, we find no merit in this application and we accordingly dismiss it with costs to KPC,” the judges ruled. In 2015, the Court of Appeal ruled that Glencore had been operating in Kenya without a licence hence any contract between it, KPC and Triton Petroleum Company was illegal. Basing on that finding, the Court of Appeal held that Glencore could not be allowed to benefit from an illegal contract. It quashed a Sh4 billion award the firm had been given by the High Court. At the time, Glencore was in the process of attaching KPC’s assets to recover Sh1.2 billion, part of its award. The firm then filed an application at the Supreme Court. Glencore argued that its suit was of great public importance because it challenged the Court of Appeal’s conduct in determining cases that required interpretation of laws governing the right to a fair hearing. Click here for the latest political news