The Interior ministry will investigate Nakuru County officials for allegedly giving Sh1 million to victims of the Solai dam tragedy in which 48 people died. Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick ole Ntutu said this on Wednesday when he faced the Senate's ad-hoc committee, which is probing the incident. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr, who is chairman of the committee, accused the government of giving victims money to sabotage investigations. "Your officers are paying people indemnity. Our concern is that the government has approved charges yet while Patel answers questions in Naivasha, it issues indemnity forms. It is surprising," he told the CAS. Ole Ntutu said he was not aware that this was taking place but said the ministry will establish whether its officers are involved. He said, however, that this was not the first time the allegation was being raised since the investigation began. "I do not know of the issue of the county commissioner giving out indemnity forms to affected people but we will investigate," he said. Kilonzo Jr told him: "Your officials appear to be sabotaging the case by the government. If your county commissioner is issuing forms while the matter is in court, what will the government do when prosecuting the same person you have assisted?" Ole Ntutu, who represented Minister Fred Matiang'i, said they will also investigate reports that some local authorities have separate lists of victims. "If there is any problem with the list I will investigate personally ... we have the list of the victims ... if anybody was left out despite being genuine we will follow up," he said. Senators accused local administrators of creating fake lists of victims of the May 9 tragedy, the chair saying local administrators provided several, some with bogus names. The committee said the local administrators will be summoned to explain the different lists. Members of the committee include Susan Kihika, Ephraim Maina, Malachi Ekai, Fatuma Dullo and Silvia Kasanga. Kilonzo Jr said they will not be intimidated despite receiving threats and being offered bribes by individuals and agencies. More on this: Senators to summon chiefs over fake list of Solai victims Other details: Patel Dam owner charged with causing Solai deaths Click here for the latest political news