Five ODM constituency officials in Homa Bay have said the party is ready to face former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga in the governor by-election. They are Tedly Ogolla (Karachuonyo), Evans Ndege (Kasipul), Ogina Nyabola (Ndhiwa), Narkiso Tuko (Suba North) and Kennedy Marembo (Rangwe). The officials yesterday said Homa Bay is the bedrock of the party and they will not let a candidate from a different party to clinch the seat. Ogolla said the senator, woman representative and all eight MPs from the county were voted on the ODM ticket, and residents will not have it different in the governor race. “We wonder where a non-ODM ticket holder will get votes should we go for a by-election. This county is an ODM zone,” he said in Kendu Bay town on Saturday. Ogolla said they will stand with Governor Cyprian Awiti if a by-election is called. “As constituency party officials, we are sure Awiti will still be the governor.” Ndege and Nyabola urged Awiti to reconsider his move of going to the Supreme Court after the Appeal and High courts nullified his victory. They urged him to allow residents to go for a by-election. Ndege said Awiti will defeat Magwanga. “There shouldn’t be further delay about this matter. Let the governor allow a by-election so we teach Magwanga a lesson.” Nyabola said all county government activities have been disrupted because of the petition. “It’s high time we put the by-election behind us because further delay will make our competitors think they can win,” he said. On Thursday, Magwanga told his supporters in Homa Bay town he is ready to face Awiti in the by-election. The former Kasipul MP said he defeated the governor in last year’s election. “If Awiti knows he won fairly, then we should go to the ballot without wasting time in courts.” Sweating in Kisumu’s sweltering heat with a broad smile across his face, Magwanga praised the judges for nullifying the election. He said the will of the people had prevailed. The appeal was dismissed with Sh5 million costs down from Sh6 million. 