Bitter rivals Kwanthanze and Soweto Academy will face off in girls’ volleyball final today after eliminating their rivals in their respective semi-finals of the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA) Term Two Games at Hill School, Eldoret yesterday. In the semifinals, Kwanthanze were too smart for Bishop Sulumeti, beating them 3-0 (25-17, 25-13, 25- 15) while Soweto defeated Cheptil with a similar set margin of 26-24, 25-14, 25-19. Kwanthanze, who are the defending champions, will be seeking to serve Soweto a hot revenge when it matters most. Soweto were responsible for Kwanthanze’s absence at the 2016 national games after eliminating them at the now defunct Metropolitan Region final the same year. Setter Immaculate Nekesa, who also doubles up as Kwanthanze captain, said lack of confidence was their main undoing during the 2016 edition but they are a totally different proposition this timne round. “Time is ripe for this particular encounter and I am positive we will take home the big trophy. We are confident and focused going into this match and we pray for a win,” intimated Nekesa. Soweto’s Hilda Chepkosgei, whose father and grandfather played for the Kenya team, noted: “Cheptil was not an easy opponent and we have to carry the resilience we had today in the semis into the finals to increase our chances of winning. They beat us in last year’s preliminaries (3-1) and I feel it is our time to triumph because we are prepared for them in all aspects.” However, all is not lost for Bishop Sulumeti and Cheptil as they will be vying for the bronze medal today as they seek a ticket to the East Africa Games. In the boys’ competitions, debutants Kapkenyeloi eliminated fellow newbies Mogonga in a tight semi final tie, winning 3-1 (25-21, 22-25, 27-25, 25-22) in a match that lasted one hour and 45 minutes. To advance to the finals, Malava edged Coastal side Shimoni 3-0 (25-17, 25-9, 25-14). Malava, coached by Shadrack Tovoko, are upbeat to reclaim the lost glory, while Kapkenyeloi are looking to grab their maiden title at the nationals.