Electronic revenue
collection company – JamboPay – has denied reports of an inconsistencies in revenue collected in financial year 2017-18. Last Tuesday, acting Finance executive
Charles Kerich told journalist that the county collected Sh8.2 billion out of a target of Sh17.2 billion. Kerich, who spoke after reading the county's 2018-19 budget, blamed the prolonged electioneering period and resultant protests. JamboPay CEO Danson Muchemi reportedly told the ICT committee last Wednesday that his firm collected Sh14 billion for the county during the financial year. And in a statement on
Monday, the company’s Chief Finance Officer Dominic Kosgei denied the existence of
a discrepancy between figures by the firm and the county. “We wish to
clarify that the revenue by the county executive does
not vary from the revenue collected through the eJijiPay system for financial
year 2017-18,” Kosgei said. He explained
that the Sh14 billion the CEO quoted in the meeting was not in reference to
2017-18 financial year but for a period spanning two financial years. He added that it was only
for revenues collected through the system. Speaking to the
Star, Muchemi said he was quoted out of context, adding that about
Sh10 billion was collected during the year. He however admitted that last year's collection was the lowest since 2014 and blamed election campaigns. "People were not paying at all because enforcement was also low. It was something that we had no control over," Muchemi said on phone. JamboPay was contracted
in April 2014 to automate and improve revenue collection. It was meant to seal
loopholes that were associated with the manual system. According to
Muchemi, the county revenue collection amount has improved significantly - from Sh7
billion in 2013 to Sh14 billion in the 2016-17 financial year. The county has
automated all its 134 revenue streams which include rates, parking, outdoor advertising and single business permits. Related: Nairobi to charge private parking premises, supermarkets selling shopping bags Also read: City Hall fails to hit Sh17bn cash target Click here for the latest political news