Three police officers adversely
mentioned in the murder of Briton Alexander Monson have denied
the charge. Naftali Chege, Ismael Baraka
and retired officer Charles Munyiri were charged with murdering
Alexander on May 19, 2012. They allegedly committed the
crime at Diani police station in Msambweni Sub-county, Kwale county. The three denied the charges before judge
Erick Ogola on Thursday, following summonses that were issued last Friday. Munyiri was released on a free bond while Chege and Baraka will spend 14 nights at Shimo la Tewa Prison ahead of a ruling on their release on July 19. In their bond application, the
accused said they were law abiding citizens who were unlikely
to abscond. Through their lawyers Pascal Nabwana
and Abdulrahman Aminga, they added that there were no compelling
reasons for them to be denied their constitutional right. Nabwana said even though murder charges are serious, the suspects are bailable as per the Constitution. "Munyiri, who has retired
from the National Police Service, is suffering from arthritis and
requires medical attention at Kenyatta National Hospital," he added. Aminga, who represented Chege and Baraka, noted they were still serving in Muranga and Kisumu so it would be impossible for them to interfere with evidence. The Office of the Director of Public Prosecution opposed the release of the suspects, state counsel Yamina Jami saying they were likely to interfere with witnesses and evidence. "The officers know where the family of the deceased lives in Diani so there is the possibility that they will interfere with them," he told the court. "The accused persons might also
track down the 39 witnesses who testified in an inquest which
culminated in the charges." Jami added that the three might interfere with a file that containing the ruling for their their prosecution. "The file is important as it has recommendations that the prosecution will present in court." He also told the court that the inquest found the suspects tried to cover-up
circumstances surrounding the death of the British royal. Read: Lord Monson’s son died handcuffed in hospital, says DCIO Also read: Court issues arrest warrant for cop mentioned in Alexander Monson death Click here for the latest political news