Two parents are distraught over the disappearance of their two daughters for a month. The mothers of Maria Waithera and Purity Wanjiku, who are in Form Three at Ngarariga Girls in Limuru, say the two did not report to school on June 6. “My daughter was absent in school on May 25. When she went to school the following day, that is on May 26, she was asked to come with her parent on May 27 to explain why she was absent,” Waithera’s mother, Hellen Waruguru, said. Waruguru yesterday said she learnt she was required to accompany her daughter to school when she went to report her daughter was missing at the institution. She spoke in Kamirithu village, Wanjiku’s mother Jecinta Wambui said her daughter left home early in the morning on June 6. “ I am a trader at Marikiti market in Nairobi. I sell vegetables at night and go home at dawn. On that day, I didn’t find my daughter at home. I only found her uniform and shoes,” she said. “I was shocked since I learnt she left in civilian clothes. I reported the matter to the school, where I learnt her friend was also missing,” Wambui said. The parents reported the matter at Tigoni police station, where DCI officers are tracking a mobile phone used by Waithera since she left with it. “Both left the same day, which indicates they went to the same place and they could still be together,” Wambui said. Area director of Education James Murage yesterday confirmed the incident, urging anyone with information of where the girls could be to report to the ministry of Education or to the nearest police station. The parents also appealed to their daughters to come back home. They said they have forgiven them of any wrongdoing that could have made them run away. “I am not eating well. I don’t go to the market. I am confused since I don’t know whether my daughter is in trouble or where she could be,” Wambui said. Waruguru said, “I pray for her to come back home safe and healthy. I don’t have peace of mind. I am appealing to her wherever she is to come back home and we will talk. I love her”. Elsewhere, a family in Nairobi is looking for their daughter, Saadia Adan, who went missing from school last month.Saadia is a Form One student at Ngara Girls High School. She was escorted to school by her elder sister, Halima Adan, on June 25.