US President Donald
Trump has vowed to help end "vicious and violent" conflicts
on the African continent. "Africa right
now has got problems like few people would even understand," he
said at a Nato summit press conference. "It is so sad,
it is so vicious and violent," he said, promising that his goal
was to build up the US military and bring peace to the world. The US is active in
counter-terrorism operations and training African troops to fight
jihadists in the Sahara. The 72-year-old US
leader was speaking after a two-day summit in Brussels, where he said
Nato allies had agreed to increase their military spending. Read: Africa must resolve its own conflicts Also read: How Africa can put perennial conflicts to an end 'WE WANT PEACE IN AFRICA' His comments about
Africa's problems came after a Tunisian journalist expressed
gratitude for US efforts in North Africa, where various Islamic
militant groups operate. The President said
the continent had "got things going on there that nobody could
believe in this room". "If you saw
some of the things that I see through intelligence - what's going on
in Africa - it is so sad, it is so vicious and violent," he
said. "We want peace
for Africa. We want peace all over the world. That's my number one
goal - peace all over the world and we are building up a tremendous
military because I really believe through strength you get peace." Trump said that the
US was "going to have a military like we never had before". But his remarks have
drawn some criticism on social media - and come seven months after he
was alleged to have used the word "shithole" to describe
African nations. He denied that he was racist. Commentators on
Twitter suggested he was reinforcing Western stereotypes of the
continent, with one Kenyan journalist implying he was naive not to
realise that Africa had 54 countries. “There are 54 countries in Africa! So which Africa is this that
has got problems like few people would understand'? Trump vows to
end vicious African conflicts,” tweeted Elizabeth Merab Robyn Dixon said: “Vicious. Violent.
Sad. Trump reinforces Western stereotypes on Africa.” Another tweeter user
suggested that an American school shooting was as vicious as any
conflict in Africa. “If Trump thinks Africa is vicious and
violent, he should see an American school when a mass murderer is on
a rampage,” said Allan Golombek. BBC Africa correspondent Alastair Leithead says the US has about
7,000 military personnel in Africa and 34 individual bases or staging
posts across the continent - and probably many more secret
facilities. Last year, four members of the US special forces were killed in an
ambush in Niger. It was the largest
loss of American military life in Africa since the "Black Hawk
Down" killings in Somalia 25 years ago. Click here for the latest political news