The government has said it is not aware that some officials are forcing victims of the Solai Dam tragedy to sign indemnity forms. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, however, promised to investigate the matter within 30 days. Matiang’i said the government has no outlined plan to compensate the victims as it is not liable for damages caused. “We are not aware of any payouts done but am requesting that this committee give us time so that we can conduct an investigation into the matter before tabling the report before you,” Matiang’i told the Senate committee probing the tragedy on Monday morning. Appearing before the ad-hoc committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo on July 18, the owner of the dam Perry Mansukh confirmed that he gave out Sh35 million as a consolation to the victims. Some of the victims told the committee that the payment of the alleged compensation was being facilitated by officers of the national government led by the county commissioner. "I am not aware of any collusion between national government officials and the dam owner," Matiang'i said. According to the committee, the victims were paid Sh1 million for a life lost, Sh200,000 for loss of a semi-permanent structure and Sh1 million for a permanent structure lost. The CS was hard pressed by the committee to explain his position on the compensation claims. Two weeks ago, the committee sent Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Patrick Ntutu to inform Matiang'i about the compensation claim. The Senators called for the national government to take responsibility and facilitate the compensation. Patel Dam owner Perry Kansagara attributed the disaster to those engaged in deforestation upstream. The businessman further insisted that he received a permit in 2004 from the then National Director of Water, under the ministry of Water, to legally construct the Dam. However, he failed to submit documents to support his position. Read: I'm also a victim, Solai dam owner tells Senate More on this: Solai dam had no impact assessment licence, Tobiko tells senators Click here for the latest political news