The Directorate of Criminal Investigation has announced vacancies for 500 new officers. The posts are open to police officers serving in the Kenya Police Service and the Administration Police Service. The officers will be trained as crime investigators, Forensic Science Experts, Crime Intelligence Collectors and Analysts, Medical Practitioners and artisans. Others will be hired as drivers, sportsmen and sportswomen women. Interested applicants must be officers in the rank of Commissioner of Police (2 slots), Senior Superintendent of Police(4 slots), Superintendent of Police (6 slots), Chief Inspector of Police (8 slots) and Inspector of Police (12 slots). Others are sergeants (18), corporals (50) and 400 police captains. A signed statement from the DCI says all the applicants must have attained a mean grade of 'C' in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education. They should also be degree or diploma holders in either pure sciences, applied sciences or social sciences. The officers should also not have a disciplinary case. "[They must have] tried, tested and proven passion for investigations and operations, will be considered to a few competitively interviewed officers. One must have passed the whole of police exams," read the statement. Skills The applicants must possess certain specific skills including demonstrated professional maturity, integrity and attention to details. The officers must also demonstrate the ability to apply logical reasoning, maintain objectivity and posses the ability to independently analyse complex scenarios. "[They must possess] problem solving [skills], be proactive, innovative and results-oriented," Wanderi said, adding that the officers should also have well developed professional networks. Applications can be done by downloading recruitment data capture forms via DCI website at www.cid.go.ke. The application forms can also be obtained from the DCI headquarters on Kiambu Road for the July 30 application deadline. "Submit the scanned and duly filled-in DCI recruitment data capture form 2018, of a PDF format of the same together with your CV to dcirecruitment2018@cid.go.ke or dcirecruitment2018@gmail.com," it said. The same forms can alternatively be hand-delivered at DCI headquarters by the said date. Click here for the latest political news