An 18-month-old girl has been left partially paralysed following a brain injury allegedly inflicted by her mentally ill mother in Murang’a. The baby is admitted to the Nairobi Hospital. Doctors said she will need aggressive physiotherapy sessions to regain mobility. The mother has been admitted to Mathari Hospital in Nairobi for treatement of mental illness. A report by the Kikuyu subcounty children office shows that the mother has on many occasions taken the child to Kijabe Mission Hospital for follow up clinics. The child was born with deformed legs. The mother suffered a mental breakdown on April 30 on her way to the hospital. “The mother and child are believed to have traveled from home in Kandara to the hospital. It is not known what happened after that and how the mother was found in Kikuyu town. “She was then apprehended by members of the public and handed over to the police at Kikuyu police station on May 1,” the report reads. The mother banged the child’s head on the wall after she was placed in a police cell. Kikuyu subcounty children’s officer Harriet Kihara said the baby was rushed to PCEA Kikuyu Hospital where a CT Scan revealed a fracture on her skull. Doctors said the baby suffered internal bleeding. She was then referred for specialised treatment at either Kenyatta National Hospital or Nairobi Women’s Hospital. “We were informed that there was a go-slow at KNH and therefore had no other option but to have the child transferred to Nairobi Women’s Hospital and admitted as a private patient because the Gender Violence Recovery Centre (GVRC) could not cover her. Her treatment was beyond their scope,” Kihara said. Yesterday she appealed to well wishers to help raise funds for the baby’s treatment. “She is learning to walk again but the bill is accumulating and the funds collected are not enough,” she said. Safaricom Foundation has contributed Sh150,000 while Sh177,000 has been raised through an M-Pesa paybill number 891300. The bill stood at Sh944,167 yesterday.