The number of young Kenyans joining terror groups like al Shabaab has declined significantly, the state’s human rights agency has said. Fewer families complain about missing relatives, Kenyan National Commission on Human Rights head Benard Mogesa said. He urged the government to ensure the youth are engaged, saying that joblessness pushes them to join terror groups. The CEO spoke to the press in Garissa during a three-day workshop on human rights-based and non-violent approach to countering extremism. The workshop brought together subcounty security committees, religious leaders, women, youth and civil society organisations. Mogesa said it was unfortunate that rehabilitated youths and returnees still face stigma from communities. They stillview them as a threat and people who cannot be changed into better citizens. “There is a need for integration and inculcation of values in their lives that will make them feel loved and appreciated by the community, irrespective of their status,” Mogesa said. Some families have complained that their relatives who voluntarily return and surrender to the police disappear and are found murdered. The majority of the disappearances are in Northeastern and the Coast regions. Many residents accuse security agencies involved in the fight against terrorism. Mogesa said the government has an obligation to protect, respect and fulfill human rights for all. “As a nation we need to account for all our citizens. Even if it is one person who has disappeared let us know where they have gone and ensure that we reintegrate them into society,” he said. “To those who have not returned, we want to tell them that this is your country. We all need a peaceful country that can thrive and be counted among the nations in the world that are prospering,” Mogesa added. Bonaventure Chengeek, programme coordinator at ACT Kenya, said they are building support and resilience networks by bringing in stakeholders like communities, CBOs and civil society. The organisation works on countering terrorism, Chengeek said his organisation will partner with the county government, the ministry of Education and religious institutions to teach teenagers about violent extremism. He said their research shows poverty and unemployment are the major drivers pushing many youths into terror networks. Chengeek urged parents to keep close watch over their children and know their friends and what they do together.  