The
Government Chemist did not honour the three-week timeline for releasing the DNA
results in the Moi Girls Nairobi rape probe. Ali Gakweli had earlier said the results for 100 samples
taken from male staff at the school would be ready by July 2. However, yesterday he said examiners at the government lab were yet to file a
report. Gakweli now says the results would be out in seven days. They would be given to Kilimani police. He attributed the delay on the large number of samples, and lack of crucial reagents for the probe that had to be bought first. Last month Gakweli said it would take 21 working days for his team to complete examining for
DNA samples of the 32 men. Nairobi DCI
chief Ireri Kamwende said his officers were waiting for the Government Chemist
results. Ninety people have been questioned by police. An attempt by
the police to have three girls picks their attacker in a random identification
parade failed. The prime witnesses said they were unable to point out the culprit. “He had covered his head with a hood, and the girls said they cannot know him," a source familiar with the investigations said. Police have described the suspect as a light-skinned man with squinted eyes. All men at the school including workers, spouses and relatives of teachers had their saliva taken for DNA testing. Police are banking on the DNA results after the girls failed to pick the suspect in the parade. At the same time, the government is waiting for an official investigation report on the alleged rape, Kibra subcounty director of Education Lydia Mutegi yesterday said. Mutegi said the state would rely on the police report to move the case forward. The police are yet to give a report since the incident occurred on June 1. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Mutegi declined to comment on possibility of the matter being linked to lesbianism. “Police report is the conclusive evidence that will be used to ensure the case is pursued under the law and those found culpable taking responsibility. All options are still on the table as police are yet to give the report,” Mutegi said. The new twists follows an assessment conducted by Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers (Kuppet) which dismisses possibility of an intruder gaining access to the institution at 1am of the night when the incident took place. Kuppet questioned the time taken to report and the way an alarm was raised on the incident. Mutegi further said that the school is currently safe for the learners. "We have been assessing the school since last month and we guarantee that the school is safe, all measures to ensure students safety have been undertaken," she said.   