Machakos MCAs have said the seven CECs appointed by Governor Alfred Mutua are in office illegally. In a statement read by majority leader and Kinanie MCA Mark Mwendo on Tuesday, the MCAs said the Monday appointment and swearing-in of the executives was illegal as the assembly had not approved the nominees. The new CECs are Evelyn Mutie (Energy), Morris Aluanga (Transport), Titus Nzeki (Administration), Francis Mwaka (Trade), Kimeu Mbithi (Public Service), Urbanus Musyoka (Agriculture) and Lazarus Kivuva (Education). But Mutua has said the deadline by which the assembly was supposed to vet the nominees had lapsed. He said he invoked Section 9 of the Public Appointments Act on nomination, which stipulates that on expiry of the period of consideration specified in Section 8, the candidate shall be deemed to have been approved. Through director of Communication Mutinda Mwanzia on Tuesday in a WhatsApp message to journalists, Mutua said the names were submitted to the assembly on May 17. The time for vetting and either rejecting or approving lapsed on June 29, he said. But the MCAs say Mutua erred in appointing the CECs. “We wish to categorically state that the recently appointed team of CECs by Governor Mutua was illegal and portrays impunity to Machakos residents,” Mwendo said. “Today, July 24, 2018, the county assembly of Machakos has not only nullified this process, but also requested relevant authorities to take action against Governor Mutua and anyone of those CECs transacting on behalf of the Machakos county government.” The MCAs said the CECs should occupy the offices at their own peril. Assembly speaker Florence Mwangangi said it does not matter whether the CECs have been sworn in or not. “While the Constitution gives him power to appoint CECs, the same Constitution tells him he can only appoint with approval of the assembly. So if that approval is not done, the appointments are null and void. In fact, the CECs are in office illegally,” she said. Mwangangi spoke to the press after the MCAs voted to declare the appointments null and avoid, following a motion tabled at the assembly by nominated MCA Christine Koki. Twenty-six MCAs voted in support of the motion, against 12. Thirty-eight members attended the session. Mwangangi directed the assembly clerk to notify the Office of the Attorney General, the national Treasury, Central Bank of Kenya and other relevant government agencies on the assembly’s resolution. She said names of the seven CECs sworn in were pending before the assembly for approvals.