Kenya’s top diplomat yesterday said there’s “nothing unusual” about ODM leader Raila Odinga’s travels as an official representative on high-profile foreign trips. Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma told reporters she was not bothered that Raila was delivering President Uhuru Kenyatta’s messages, and not her. His visits appear to have upstaged her, but Juma dismissed this suggestion. She said the treatment Raila is accorded is due to his former position as Prime Minister. Juma spoke at a press briefing in a Nairobi hotel. Read: Raila is now a senior state representative Her remarks come amid intense speculation about Raila’s position in government, following the March 9 handshake with President Kenyatta. “The stature of a former Prime Minister in any country is well guaranteed. That’s why he is receiving those courtesies as provided for internationally,” Juma said. A press statement from Raila’s spokesman Dennis Onyango on Tuesday said the ODM leader conveyed a message of goodwill to Indian PM Narendra Modi during their meeting. This sparked speculation among Kenyans and within the political circles. Raila was accompanied by his wife, Ida, and Kenya’s High Commissioner to India Florence Weche and her deputy Belinda Omino when he met Modi in New Delhi. “Anybody can deliver the President’s message,” Juma said. Raila was accorded similar courtesies in South Africa in April when he represented the President during the funeral of anti-apartheid icon Winnie Mandela. Read: Raila represents Uhuru at Winnie Mandela's burial During Uhuru’s first term, Raila was not accorded the courtesies he is enjoying from Kenyan envoys. He also did not convey the President’s messages to heads of states. On other topics, Juma criticised the underfunding of Kenya’s embassies. The ministry plans to open 16 new foreign missions in three years. Six full resident missions will be opened in Accra (Ghana), Abidjan (Code d’Ivoire), Dakar (Senegal), Djibouti, Maputo (Mozambique) and Rabat (Morocco). Four consulates will be opened in Goma (DRC), Lagos (Nigeria), Arusha (Tanzania) and Cape Town (South Africa). More: Raila set to become AU Special Envoy in handshake deal Click here for the latest political news 