A Serpent in the course of its wanderings came into an armourer’s shop. As he glided over the floor he felt his skin pricked by a file. In a rage he turned around and tried to bite it, but he could do no harm to the heavy iron and soon gave up. Last week, the Council of Governors demanded they be granted immunity from prosecution in regards to corruption. They were reacting to the arrest of Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong’ who faces corruption-related charges. The governors further launched an attack, ironically, on the fight against corruption, claiming it is a witch-hunt aimed at deflecting attention from the national government. For many Kenyans, the governors are a clear example of how corruption has been fighting back to defeat justice. Like the serpent, the governors are directing their anger at something that they cannot defeat. The public has met their attacks with contempt as they violate the spirit of the Constitution as well as the national aspirations. First, they have launched an attack on the Constitution, which is clear on immunity from prosecution. They forget that even the President is not fully immune as he can be charged if he commits crimes covered by international laws and statutes. And even while the Constitution may grant immunity to the President on some aspects, the same supreme law gives provisions for the possible impeachment of the head of state. Governors should not think that anyone is above the law. In fact, it is the law that equalises us all as citizens and no Kenyan will agree to amend the Constitution to give governors immunity. If this happens, we will have all other elected leaders demanding immunity, which will result in zero accountability. This will then leave oversight of taxpayer’s money left unchecked, with the possibility of misuse, as people will know that no proper action can be taken against them. Secondly, the war on corruption cannot be done only on the national government and claims that the focus on counties can only be a witch-hunt are farfetched. This must cover the entire republic — all institutions including private citizens and their entities — if we are to slay this dragon. It is therefore foolhardy for governors to attempt to tell Kenyans that the war on corruption should not focus on the counties. Kenyans have seen how corruption has been devolved and some of the county staff are actively involved in the plunder of public funds. The President has been very decisive in the fight against corruption, even stating that if his own brother is found guilty, then he will carry his own cross. The President knows that he can give Kenyans everything they need if they got rid of wastage and misuse of public funds. Governors have been claiming that they are committed to the fight against corruption but their latest statements are a blot on that commitment. Unless they are direct beneficiaries of the devolved corruption, then they should be supporting Kenya’s strong will to do away with graft. Additionally, governors must be accountable for the public funds entrusted to the executives that they head. Therefore, they must also be ready to accept responsibility to be charged in court if there is mismanagement in their counties where evidence points to acts of omission or commission. The buck, overall responsibility and accountability stops with the governors. Therefore, they must be willing to shoulder the weight and not try to shift blame or hide behind non-existent laws. Like the serpent, it will be foolhardy for governors to fight the Constitution as well as Kenyans at a time when all that the country wants is better governance.   Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda