The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has questioned the credibility of the police service to investigate and prosecute corruption cases. The commission noted that economic crime should be left to them and the office of the DPP. A number of graft cases in court today were sanctioned by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. But EACC vie-chairperson Sophia Lepuchirit said the two agencies - EACC and ODPP, despite a shortage of staff, are in a position to investigate and deal with corruption cases. She noted that currently, EACC has helped recover assets worth Sh4B with hundreds of suspects arraigned over corruption cases. "In every integrity survey that is done, the police department is always top on matters corruption and this means that they cannot be trusted to fight graft," she said. Also see: Atwoli calls for 'extensive lifestyle audits' of EACC, DCI officials The commissioner noted that currently, they have over 800 workers, adding that if they can receive another 1,000, then they can investigate more cases. "Economic crime cases should be solely investigated by EACC and the office of the DPP and police should deal with criminal cases alone," she said. Lepuchirit was addressing the press in Simba Lodge Naivasha after opening a five-day training workshop for Judiciary Ombudsperson Liaison officers. She added that EACC is investigating one of the leading banks in the country after Sh333m, suspected to be fraud proceeds, were withdrawn in unclear circumstances. The commissioner noted that the lack of co-operation by banks remains a major challenges for EACC's bid to fight graft. "Millions of shillings are been withdrawn at the flip of the pen and the banks have failed to raise the red flag. This has adversely affected the fight against corruption," she said. Also read: EACC not part of team probing new NYS scam Related: EACC files on three governors not actionable due to gaps - DPP But on a positive note, Lepuchirit praised the move by the Chief Justice David Maraga to set up special courts to deal with corruption cases. "EACC has for many years been unfairly targeted by some leaders but we are committed to fighting corruption head-on. Corruption is also fighting back," she said. On her part, Lydia Manyasi - EACC assistant director in charge of education, said that the workshop was meant to empower the liaison officers in the fight against corruption. "In the wake of the rising cases of corruption, we have embarked on a major training programme so that we can equip the learners on integrity issues," she said. Click here for the latest political news  