Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday opposed calls to reintroduce caning in schools. She said it would be against the law, unless MPs amend it. Some parents, leaders and education officials want corporal punishment brought back to restore discipline and end rampant unrest. Protests and fires have rocked some 63 schools in the last three weeks. About two weeks ago, Embu parents and teachers called for corporal punishment to tame misconduct. Kenya Parents Association Embu chapter chairman Njiru Kathangu and Knut branch executive secretary Josphat Kathangu said children “have become big-headed and disobedient since caning was outlawed”. “The centuries-old saying ‘spare the rod and spoil the child’ has taken a heavy toll in Kenya after the cane was spared by enacting the law. The children are spoilt,” Njiru said. Yesterday, Amina said in Nairobi that caning would do more harm than good. “I’m against reintroduction of caning. There’s a clear law on it and until legislators amend that, I can’t do anything. My hands are tied right now,” she said at the Kenya Education Management Institute during the inauguration of the institution’s council. “I think there are other ways to discipline our children. We can communicate with them. Corporal punishment should be the last thing on our minds.” Psychiatrist Silas Kiriinya concurred, saying corporal punishment would hurt students fond of making mistakes. “Caning subjects children to fear. It has been one of the leading causes of truancy and could lead to an increase in dropouts,” he said on the phone. Caning was banned in 2001 after the Children’s Act took effect. The law also increased the age of a child from 16 to 18 years. It prohibits female genital mutilation. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairperson Indimuli Kahi said caning would not offer the best solution to indiscipline. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang faulted managements’ role in curbing chaos. He said poor management is to blame for some cases of unrest. Early remarks by the ministry suggested that the rampant unrest was a result of examination anxiety. Amina said, “School boards are the supervisory bodies. They should pick up any early warning signs of the problems. They have a huge responsibility to warn and engage the ministry on ways to address this situation before it erupts.” In May, she instructed school boards to conduct and compile security assessment reports. Some schools have yet to comply.