Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa has dismissed his party leader Moses Wetang'ula's claims that NASA is dead, saying Ford Kenya is in the coalition to stay. “If you want to exit the alliance, you must write a letter to the Registrar of Political Parties and attach minutes. That has not been done," Wamalwa said. He said the decision to Join NASA was collective, and Ford Kenya is still registered under the alliance. Wetang'ula, who is the Bungoma senator, spoke during an interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday night. Read:I'm not in NASA, political journey with Raila is over, says Wetang'ula Read: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge Wamalwa also dismissed the handshake between Wetang'ula and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa at Mabanga Farmers Training College in Bungoma on Friday. He said claims that Wetang'ula and the CS buried the hatchet at Mabanga are baseless. The handshake allegedly ended an eight-year political rivalry between the two leaders Wamalwa said neither Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka, who is the "senior most Luhya politician", Webuye West MP Dan Wanyama nor former MP Joash Wamang'oli were consulted or invited. The MP said former Cabinet ministers Mukhisa Kituyi and Musikari Kombo were also not involved. Kombo was a former chairman of the party. “Chris Wamalwa, is a member of Ford Kenya, and whoever they were shaking hands with is from my constituency, but I was not consulted,” he said. The vocal MP said he was kept in the dark and only learnt about the handshake through the media. Wamalwa said it is important for such agreements to involve all party members for the purpose of ownership. “The idea is good, but the approach was not proper. That’s why it is bound to fail. We must carry all Luhyas along,” he said. Wamalwa also dismissed claims that the handshake would decide who would become the Luhya leader. He said the people would decide. “I have asked the people of Trans Nzoia to be their governor in 2022, and I mean business,” the MP said. On Monday, Sirisia MP John Waluke said the handshake between the leaders was inconsequential. He said Wetang’ula has shown signs of joining Jubilee. “Let him just say he wants to find a way of joining Jubilee and stop the theatrics about handshake.” Click here for the latest political stories 