The family of a deceased Makueni politician have appealed to the government to help them get his body for burial. Former Mtito Andei councillor Lazarus Musyoki was among nine travellers killed in a road crash on July 4 near Emali town. His truck collided with a bus. The vehicles went up in flames and others suffered severe injuries. On Monday, his relatives postponed his burial for a second time because his body could not be released. It is held in a mortuary alongside the others. The burial had been scheduled for Saturday, but his family put it off indefinitely. The National Disaster Operations Committee said the nine bodies will be detained until DNA analyses are completed in Nairobi. “This is just a short update to inform you that relevant agencies are still putting together the final results of the DNA samples,” it said in an SMS to the family. “We request you to be patient and wait for communication from the NDOC-KRCS as soon as we are able to.” The NDOC and the Kenya Red Cross Society took part in the rescue operation after the accident. Mourners at Musyoki’s home in Nzambani village did not take kindly to the news. They appealed to the national government to have the body released for interment. Burial committee chairman Cosmas Kamuya said the delay had hurt their “preparations for a befitting sendoff”. He said they were “getting fatigued”. “The government should help this family and the community to bury their own,” he said. Was alone in truck National Disaster Management Unit deputy director of communications Pius Masai said six bodies had been identified but could not be released until the whole process is completed. He urged the family to be patient. Widow Damaris Wanza said detaining the body further will only distress her family more. She eulogised her husband as a great man. Wanza said they had shared good moments hours before he met his end. “He was jovial and in high spirits,” the mother of five said. Musyoki’s younger brother Posephone said the DNA test was unnecessary. He said Musyoki’s body could not be mistaken for someone else’s or claimed by the families of the other travellers. “It makes no sense to keep holding the body in the pretext of ‘researching’. His body was collected alone from the truck’s cabin,” Posephone said. Musyoki’s father Simon Kivati, a senior chief, urged the government to intervene. Musyoki had joined the transport business after quitting elective politics. He was driving his truck when the accident occurred.