 What do cops do during their spare time? Drink, make trouble, engage in illegal business.That’s the perception. But not Mercy Mugo. The 26-year-old AP constable spends her free time knitting modern shaggy mats for sale. And the returns are pretty. She makes twice her monthly salary from the mats. "I work in a post which is not very busy so I decided to venture into knitting to make more money," Mugo told the Star at her base in at her Mutamuke AP post base in Tharaka Nithi. The business administration diploma graduate from the Co-operative University College says she is in love with knitting because it allows her to express her creativity besides generating more income. Police officers have often been accused of soliciting for bribes whenever an opportunity arises. But Mugo wanted to be different. "I wanted to stand out and make money from doing something. I adopted knitting because I have a passion in it," she said. The passion developed when she was young. Occasionally, she helped her mother knit and sell school sweaters at Nthagaiya market in Embu East. She later sought the services of a trainers to perfect her skills. "I was sometimes forced to learn more from YouTube because my trainers was busy with orders and could not dedicate more time training me," Mugo said. Six months later, she has knitted more than 60 mats of different sizes, shapes and colours. "I knit according to my imaginations and customers' tastes," she said. Demand for Mugo's mats has grown so big that she's sometimes forced to reject orders. "The orders are sometimes because I have to first work as an officer. I cannot knit while on duty," she said. The knitting is laborious. "It takes me three days to complete a square-metre mat which goes for Sh3,000," she said. Mugo also makes money from training those interested in the art at a cost of Sh1,000 for the five-day course. Her only challenge is striking a balance between her job and meeting customers' demands. But there are more benefits. "Knitting is a stress reliever. I never get bored because i enjoy it. It keeps me busy," Mugo said. What is her advice to colleagues? "They should venture into small part-time businesses to change the perception that all officers are corrupt," Mugo said.       Entrepreneurship had always been her hobby. As she grew up, she would find herself helping her mother weave and sell school sweaters in Nthagaiya market in Embu east. She had no idea that one day she would make some extra cash from a similar art. “I knit mats according to my thoughts or my customer’s taste, I can make any design, colour, and shape,” she added. Six months down the line she has knitted over sixty mats and trained several of her colleagues in the service. She trains an individual at Sh200 a day for five days. “In five days most of my colleagues, who are interested, are good and ready to start knitting,” said Mugo The police constable knits a variety of mats with a creative finish. She says that her mats can be designed for use in toilets, living room door, bedroom, coffee table and wall hangings. Her prices are determined by the materials she uses. She reveals that a standard door mat uses 10 balls of thread with each going for Sh80 while a one metre tapestry mesh goes for Sh450. "I also do deliveries to my customers so i sell a square metre mat for Sh3,000. To cater for all kinds of customers Ms Mugo uses old sacks to knit cheap mats. She further added that when a customer makes an order she draws her desired design on the tapestry or a piece of sack for the customer to choose.  "It takes me three days to complete a square  metre mat," she says. In order to get a wide market reach, Ms Mugo markets her products via social media platforms. The business minded police officer is contented with her decision to venture into the mat knitting business, which she does within the police post.  She however notes that she faces several challenges as she has to balance between meeting customer demands and serving the people as a police officer. "It also takes time to make big mats that can cover a standard sitting room, this drives the prices high because of the labour involved and some customers do not understand this," she added. She is calling upon other police officers to venture into small part time businesses and change the perception of the public that all officers are corrupt.