The Judiciary is establishing friendlier courts for children. Speaking at the launch of a children’s court service week at the Ngong law courts yesterday, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu said the Judiciary is committed to training all magistrates and judges on dealing with children who violate the law. The DCJ said courts are committed to ensure the best interest of the child is taken into account when dealing with their cases. Mwilu asked all players to go beyond the service week and ensure children’s matters are heard expeditiously. Read: Concern in Meru as child offenders held in court cells with adults Roles The DCJ further urged the community to play its role in protecting and guiding children and not to leave discipline to the justice system. “The family and the community must protect our children. The Judiciary will not take up the role of disciplining children.” MP Joseph Manje urged parents to plan for and only have children they can take care of to ensure they are not neglected. The US State Department of Justice pledged to support the Judiciary in ensuring children’s cases are heard. It says the cases should be determined expeditiously and according to the Children Act to ensure those in conflict with the law are not hurt by the judicial processes. The department’s representative Stacy de la Torre said protecting the rights of children is an agenda dear to the US government. Read: Children court adopts plea bargaining concept to fast track children cases, clear backlogs Fast Pace Justice Teresia Matheka, a member of the National Council on Administration of Justice taskforce on children matters, said the justice system needs to protect children’s rights in a timely manner. “All cases that get to court affect children in one way or another. That’s the reason the task force was set up to look at matters affecting children,” she said. Ngong law courts were established two years ago and have received 432 children cases and resolved 359. The court hopes to clear all the 63 pending cases. The service week will end on Friday. This is a precursor to the Judiciary service month for children’s matters observed nationally in November. Click here for
the latest political news