Farmers must change pesticide against the fall armyworm every 30 days to prevent resistance, experts have warned in a new advisory. They said the worm completes its life cycle in 30 to 40 days in tropical climates. Successive generations should not be treated with the same active ingredient. The insect has a long history of developing resistance to insecticides and this would render the few chemicals recommended in Kenya useless. In April, the government named five chemicals that farmers should use to control the worm. Experts say if farmers fail to adhere to instructions, the country could suffer the resistance experienced in countries like Zimbabwe. “Misuse can lead to the insect developing resistance to the active ingredient, besides causing damage to natural enemies and the environment,” says the newly-released guide for integrated pest management, titled Fall Armyworm (FAW) in Africa. The guide was compiled by US non-profit Feed the Future, USAid and the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (Cimmyt). The guide highlights scientifically proven management practices that could be relevant for smallholder farmers. “Readers are encouraged to identify and combine appropriate options from each of the chapters, applying or adapting them as necessary in their local context,” the authors say. The FAW has been confirmed in more than 30 African countries. It is likely to become endemic in many. It has affected 800,000 hectares of land in nearly all counties in Kenya since it was first reported in 2016. Kenya lost more than one million bags of maize in the last harvest season following the armyworm infestation, according to the Ministry of Agriculture. Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri recently said the government will spend Sh600 million to fight the invasion. Kiunjuri said the money will be disbursed through the newly formed Fall Armyworm Multi-Institutional Technical Team which is made up of scientists from the government and local and international research organisations. 