Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta has slammed critics of Mau evictions saying the operation has the full backing of Deputy President William Ruto. He claimed that the drive to evict settlers from what is Kenya's key water catchment is being coordinated by the DP's office. The evictions have sparked off a political storm in the wake of the verbal clash between Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga's allies. This deepened after  Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen accused Raila of masterminding the evictions. Read: Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim Also read: KOT rap Murkomen for dragging Raila into Mau eviction row However, Kenta, who is an ODM strongman in Narok, gave a stern warning to Murkomen asking the legislator to stop lying to Narok residents. "We are not lesser Kenyans nor are we children of a lesser God. We support the eviction." "Let Murkomen and his people know that one cannot come all the way from Baringo, Bomet, Kericho and Elgeyo Marakwet to tell the Maasais which land they own and those they dont," Kenta said. "I would also like to tell Murkomen and his henchmen that the Maasai people are ready for them." A section of Nasa leaders, who accompanied Moitalel during the press briefing, said Murkomen was only dragging their party leader's name for political correctness. The leaders claimed that Ruto had backed the collective Cabinet
decision to evict squatters at Mau Forest. "Ruto had made a public address in Narok supporting the evictions saying no encroachment must take place," they said. The leaders want the Senate Majority Leader to be arrested for inciting as well as for using derogatory terms in reference to Uhuru and Raila. "When he said that Raila signed an agreement with another mkora (crook), he is really calling the president a mkora." "This is a tantamount threat to the sovereignty of our country and security of this country." They, however, want the issue to be solved amicably. Murkomen's county also had a case where squatters were ordered to leave Embobut forest. Following this, the EU suspended a Sh3.6 billion grants for conserving water towers in 11 counties, citing the violation of the indigenous community’s rights. Click here for latest political news