Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has faulted Governor Mike Sonko over "inhumane demolition" of structures by the county government. Sakaja asked the governor to prevail on the city inspectorate department which has been flattening the structures to be humane and considerate in the exercise. The senator said the demolitions have left many residents hopeless and with nowhere to go after their business premises - their only source of livelihood - were destroyed. He appealed to the city boss to ensure the affected traders are given prior notice and alternative trading areas established before demolitions are carried out. “I know that we are suffering when the structures are demolished. I am appealing to the governor to please, before we demolish the structures, let’s get a good place for them to operate because they are just struggling to earn a living,” Sakaja said. Read: Nairobi pulls down illegal structures at Buruburu's Mutindwa market Speaking at Jesus Winners Ministry Church in Roysambu on Sunday, Sakaja said that Sonko himself came from a humble background and should therefore be sensitive to the plight of “hard working Nairobians who have refused to be thugs.” “Just the other day in Mutindwa, I saw a mother who sells yams seated without any hope after her stall was demolished. That is not the way to go,” he said. “We should not forget where we have come from and as your senator, I will ensure that we take care of you,” he said. The county has been demolishing illegal structures in various parts of the city since Sonko took over at City Hall. Last Thursday, county askaris brought down several structures in Mutindwa market. The county argues that the structures have become hideouts for criminals terrorizing residents thus the need to flatten them. But the county has been blamed for not giving traders notices or alternative places to work from. The senator also said that he will ensure the families of the traders who perished in last month’s fire at Gikomba market get justice. “I will ensure that we get to the root cause of the frequent fires at Gikomba. It cannot be that after two months we hear of a fire in Gikomba. If you hold a title for Gikomba, then know that that is a fake title. Gikomba is public land,” he said. Sakaja said that justice must also prevail for the relatives of 48 people who perished in Solai, Nakuru County in May after a private dam burst. “There must be justice in this country. We have said that justice must prevail. We have orphans more than 50 orphans in Solai that must be compensated. Sakaja said the constructions of the Westlands market will be completed in less than 60 days to help the traders who were recently from their trading areas to pave way for road construction. Read: Askaris demolish stalls near Bidii Primary School in war on crime Click here for the latest political news