Once upon a time, Mother Monkey had two babies. One was reared with love and one with neglect. The loved one was smothered and died; the other grew despite neglect. The moral of the story is that the best intentions will not always ensure success, and neglect can result in making something stronger. French philosopher Baron Montesquieu argued that power cannot be vested in one office or person because it would lead to tyranny. He advocated for a separation of powers so as to ensure that there are checks and balances so that one arm would not abuse its powers. The Constitution states that all sovereign power belongs to the people and vested in the three arms of government. It also provides that the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary shall exercise sovereign power on behalf of the people. It is also instructive to note that while the three arms of government are independent, they do not work in a vacuum. They are all parts of the same government and thus interdependent in exercise of their mandate for the benefit of all Kenyans. Last week a clash ensued, with the Judiciary rightly accusing Parliament of seeking to cripple it by slashing its budget request by more than half. Chief Justice David Maraga, while assuring Kenyans of services by the Judiciary, informed the country that some projects would stall due to inadequate funding. Seventy court construction projects now hang in the balance, as the Sh50 million that was allocated for development is not even a fraction of what the Judiciary had requested. During the budget-making process, the Judiciary requested Sh31.2 billion from the Treasury to support its operations in this financial year. The National Government’s Budgetary Policy Statement capped the Judiciary’s budget at Sh17.3 billion. However, when Parliament passed the Appropriation Act, the Judiciary’s total budget allocation was further reduced to Sh14.5 billion. Out of this, the development budget is only Sh50 million, compared to Sh2.6 billion allocated to the Judiciary in 2014-15. The CJ said they are at a loss on how to use the Sh50 million, which is expected to cover new and ongoing projects, repairs and maintenance, as well as ICT infrastructure for the courts. Deputy President William Ruto last Wednesday promised that the budget would be reviewed to enable the Judiciary carry out its mandate without any hindrance. The importance of the Judiciary can never be underscored in any country and this matter should be solved as fast as possible. The Judiciary exists to serve all the 45 plus million Kenyans, whether on criminal or civil matters, and should therefore be facilitated sufficiently. The Kiswahili proverb ‘ndovu wawili wapiganapo nyasi ndizo huumia (when two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets hurt)’ couldn’t have been more apt in this situation. When the three arms of government are at loggerheads with each other, it is Kenyans who get hurt, not the institutions themselves. As these arms of government carry out their mandate, it’s important that they remember where sovereign power lies, with the people. Any act or dispute that pits the institutions against each other affects mwananchi. All Kenyans can request is for the different arms to work together, and find a way to solve the impasse. In fact, if the Executive and Parliament want to see greater results in the fight against corruption, the Judiciary must be well funded to work well. That said, some issues have been raised about the Judiciary’s spending and the CJ must work with the Auditor General to ensure these are ironed out. The Auditor has pointed out a number of times that the Judiciary has not been prudent in its spending. This is something that the Judiciary must aim to sort out to ensure that Kenyans trust the court system fully. Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda