Baringo Senator Gideon Moi has warned Rift Valley leaders against inflammatory statements over the ongoing Mau evictions. He said such statement aimed at inciting the residents against the government and brewing division among communities living in the area must stop. Gideon said the Kipsigis and the Maasai communities have been living in peace for a long time and that the Mau issue should not be used to divide the two groups along tribal lines. He spoke after distributing foodstuffs to Mau evictees at Triangle area of Narok South constituency on Saturday. In attendance were KANU Secretary Nick Salat, former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, and former Bureti MP Paul Sang. "We don’t want few leaders to bring problems among the communities living in these regions. All our people are law abiding citizens and we should continue living peace." The Kanu chairman urged the government has to respect the sanctity of the title deeds as some of the settlers had genuine land documents. "We are pained as leaders by the way our people are suffering in the Mau region. The people have followed the law and nobody has gone beyond the forest cutline and yet they have been mistreated," he said. The senator said their move to visit Mau evictees is not politically motivated and called all the Kalenjins leaders to work together to sort the Mau issue once and for all. "Let’s work together as leaders regardless of our status and solve this Mau issue for the betterment of work people and the country," Gideon said. He wondered how the pupils in the affected area will cope after three schools were destroyed during the evictions. On his part, Salat said there was the need for all the leaders from the two communities to sit and get solutions for the recurring Mau issue. Rutto said the Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko should be held accountable for the damages suffered by the evictees. "Tobiko should stop the evictions and wait until the issue is addressed and instead of subjecting the people to suffering," Rutto said. They spoke barely a day after Elgeyo Marakwet Kipchumba Murkomen asked the evictees to stay put. The MPs in his entourage accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of instigating the evictions, a claim that has stirred a political storm. Related: Raila mastermind of inhumane Mau evictions, Rift MPs claim More on this: Defiant Murkomen returns to Mau, tells evictees to stay put Click here for the latest political news