The Senate yesterday ordered Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo not to authorise any funds for constructing houses for governors and speakers. Also frozen is “exorbitant” money allocated for construction of the residences of deputy governors and county assembly offices in the 2018-19 budgets. The Senate committee directed county governments to “suspend all expenditure on county infrastructural projects and put all the contracts signed on hold till further directions are given by the relevant authorities.” Read: Joho to finally get official residence, budget 'hidden' The committee also resolved that circulars issued by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Commission on Revenue Allocations on the matter be revoked within seven days. The SRC, then led by Sarah Serem, had recommended that county assemblies construct houses for speakers by June 2019 but did not give guidelines on specifications and cost. On the other hand, CRA through Circular No 5 of 2015 advised the 47 counties to focus on development and make budgetary provisions for non-core projects over a period of five to 10 years. But the committee yesterday said the structural designs of the projects should be scrutinised and rationalised to ensure only essential facilities are provided for state officers. “Guidelines on the development of county infrastructure should be issued after proper consultations with key stakeholders on available alternatives and ensure that expenditures on capital projects are in line with principles of Public Finance Management,” the committee said. Also read: Ward reps shoot down Tolgos home budget It also directed that circulars by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and the Commission on Revenue Allocation giving directions on how to go about building the residences be revoked within seven days. The SRC, then led by Sarah Serem, had recommended that county assemblies construct houses for speakers by June 2019 but did not give guidelines on specifications and cost. On the other hand, CRA through Circular No. 5 of 2015 advised the 47 counties to focus on development and make budgetary provisions for non-core projects over a period of 5-10 years. But the committee yesterday said the structural designs of the projects should be scrutinised and rationalised to ensure only essential facilities are provided for State officers. “Guidelines on the development of county infrastructure should be issued after proper consultations with key stakeholders on available alternatives and ensure that expenditures on capital projects are in line with principles of Public Finance Management,” the committee said. It also directed the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, together with other key stakeholders, to first generate designs and review all the proposals to suit specific areas. It also said the multi-sectoral team should set a threshold and the standards of the infrastructural projects that “will be realistic and reduce the anomalies in the current expenditures”. Some governors, deputy governors and county clerks have hired palatial residences at upmarket locations in their respective counties while others have hired presidential suites in high end hotels. The announcement by the committee will deal a blow to county bosses who had set their sights on palatial residences with luxurious amenities. “Despite the existing economic disparities within and among counties, the committee notes that some counties are in need of long term infrastructural facilities,” Committee chairman and Mandera senator Mohamed Mahamud said at Parliament. Most counties have set aside millions to put up the houses. For instance, Vihiga has budgeted Sh80 million to build a residence for Governor Wilbur Ottichilo while Nyeri has proposed to spend Sh200 million to build one for Governor Mutahi Kahiga. Kirinyaga has set aside Sh100 million. More: Auditor indicts county bosses for suspect use of taxpayers’ money Since 2014, the construction of the official residence of Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya has been receiving approximately Sh50 million every financial year. The Uasin Gishu county government has proposed Sh100 million for the construction of the reisdences of Governor Jackson Mandago and deputy Daniel Chemno. Last month, Elgeyo Marakwet MCAs rejected Sh100 million set aside to build the governor’s residence. Governor Alex Tolgos eventually turned down the plan and the MCAs re-allocated the money to a development vote. Tolgos and senior officials of his administration live in Eldoret in neighbouring Uasin Gishu county, almost 40km away. In 2015, residents of the North Rift county moved to court to challenge the plans to build a Sh50 million house for Tolgos. Last month, a row erupted between Nairobi county clerk Jacob Ngwele and Speaker Beatrice Elachi over the procurement of the speaker’s residence priced at Sh150 million. It is not clear how much money has been budgeted by Mombasa county for the construction the governor’s residence. But in 2013, reports of plans to build a Sh390 million official residence caused a storm. In 2014, Kilifi county bought a house worth Sh140 million for governor Amason Kingi. Homa Bay county set aside Sh100m for the construction of the governor’s official residence. Mahamud said the county governments and assemblies should utilise the facilities that were used by the defunct local authorities. Also see: Auditor General questions Sh239m expense on Makueni county chiefs' houses Click here for the latest political news