Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter yesterday said charging all senior managers of Kenya Power was similar to the plane crash in which the entire Zambian national football team died. "It is sad and painful and sometimes you feel you should be sacrificed instead of all these people, especially those who are innocent," he said at a press conference at KPLC headquarters in Ngara. The CS, however, criticised anti-graft officers for the "inhumane" manner in which they arrested his officers over the weekend, though he said the war on graft should not be compromised. "Let us be humane when arresting people. You cannot go to people's houses at midnight in the fight against corruption," Keter said. The CS named Engineer Jared Otieno as interim team leader of the listed company for three months. Keter made the announcement after the board led by Maalim Mahboub suspended Ken Tarus and eight others who were charged with various corruption-related offences. Keter said Otieno will lead a new team of 11 managers to ensure the company's operations are not paralysed. "We want to assure all the stakeholders, especially shareholders, donors and our bankers, that KPLC will continue to run as usual. "The board remains in place and will continue to provide the guidance as we steady the ship," said a visibly unsettled Keter. Tarus, his predecessor Ben Chumo and more than 10 senior officers were arrested and appeared in court yesterday. They pleaded not guilty. Keter, flanked by his PS Joseph Njoroge and Mahboub at a hurriedly organised press conference in late afternoon, said the new team will ensure continuity in implementing programmes including the Last Mile Connectivity project and donor-funded projects. "If Kenya Power goes down, it means the whole energy sector goes down. We have to continue operations and the board has resolved to put in place a new team to continue the restructuring process. Colleagues before court remain suspended until the cases are over," he said. Keter said senior managers will return to work once they are acquitted. "It is a difficult time for me when my team of competent staff and engineers are before court. Losing about 19 people is serious and really painful. I'm sure justice will be served to everybody because these are innocent people," he said. Otieno expressed confidence in the new team and said they will be able to deliver on their mandate. "This is the time we need to rekindle our energy and go out to restore hope. I'm sure this team will deliver on its mandate because the expectation out there is very high," he said. Read: KPLC managers spend the night in police cells Click here for the latest political news