Base Titanium has announced it could halt exploration in northern Tanzania where it holds five prospecting licenses. The statement followed analysis of drill samples at the Kwale operations laboratory. The company in its second quarter report stated the red sand dunal deposits are very shallow (one to six metres) and overlie a limestone base. The deposits were cited as “weakly mineralised” with “high slime content”. Deep mineralized zone were found to have heavy minerals dominated by garnets and staurolite with low valuable heavy mineral content. “Based on these results, it is unlikely the company will pursue further exploration on these licences,” the June report said. The company has so far spent $0.4 million (Sh40,161,000) in total exploration expenditure for the quarter, across all licences in Kenya and Tanzania, leading to reduction of net debt by $27.6 million (Sh2.7 billion) to $33.2 million (Sh3.3 billion). The company also announced it has expanded mineral exploration in Kwale. “Completion of an updated ore reserve based on the 2017 Kwale South Dune Mineral Resource is subject to finalization of mining tenure arrangements, which are currently being progressed with the Kenyan Ministry of Petroleum and Mining,” the report said. Base further said mineral sands mining in the Madagascar's Toliara Sands Project will begin mid-2021. In January, the company paid $75 million up-front to World Titane Holdings Limited for the acquisition of the Project. The remaining $17 million (Sh1.7 billion) is to be paid when the project advances to mine development. Drilling commenced in July and ahead of 2019, the company said it is undertaking a full study phase before a decision to proceed to construction. “The project is considered to be one of the best mineral sands development projects in the world,” the company said. Base said focus will be on completion of the evaluation of mining, processing and infrastructure options. “This will see the commencement of a number of activities including Bathymetric survey of the sea bed for the proposed port jetty, further geotechnical investigations for the port, mine site, haul road and river crossing and infill aerial survey for infrastructure planning,” the report stated. The project's total expenditure for the June quarter was $1.5 million (Sh170,680,000).