The Kenya Ports Authority on Friday received four more Rail Mounted Gantry cranes meant for handling of cargo of the Standard Gauge Railway. This is the last consignment of the six Sh2.12 billion RMGs ordered by KPA on December 2016. The first consignment two RMGs was received in May this year. Each of the cranes costs Sh355 million, said  PA managing director Daniel Manduku. Speaking during the offloading exercise of the cranes, Manduku said the six cranes were ordered from ZPMC Ltd based in China. “This is part of equipment KPA is investing on to ensure efficiency during cargo discharge. These particular cranes were ordered from China and they each cost Sh345 million,” said Manduku. Manduku said the cranes will be deployed along the SGR lines within the port to ensure there is efficiency in handling cargo meant for the hinterland. Starting July, KPA is transporting cargo meant for Nairobi using seven SGR trains. “We want to be efficient in ensuring we load at least seven trains per day to Nairobi. We are targeting to attain 12 trains to Nairobi everyday by December” he said. Read: [VIDEO] KPA receives Sh2.12 billion rail mounted gantry cranes for SGR cargo Manduku said KPA has also acquired additional 28 new terminal tractors. “These tractors are now operational and as I said have contributed to improved performance of the port. That explains the recent record performance in our container operations following the discharge of 3,872 TEUs in less than eight hours,” he said. He said Conventional Cargo operations have also seen tremendous improvement thanks their partner Trade Mark East Africa for assisting the Authority to acquire two ultra-modern diesel-electric harbour mobile cranes valued at Sh868million. He said the cranes are capable of working two vessels at a time unlike the old ones, and they are specifically built for environmental friendly operations. KPA has also acquired four Ship to Shore Gantry cranes and 12 Rubber Tyred Gantry cranes were ordered from Toyota Tsusho in Japan, which were received in April. The cost of one Ship to Shore crane is Sh947 million while each Rubber Tyred crane costs Sh185 million, totaling to Sh6.68 billion for the whole consignment of sixteen cranes. Also read; High turnover of KPA bosses raises questions