The Bungoma county government has condemned an incident in which residents took to the streets chanting circumcision songs as they escorted streets boys to undergo the cut. Culture executive Everlyne Kakai said it was against the Bukusu tradition to circumcise boys before the official time set by the council of elders. The county is yet to issue certificates to registered circumcisors for the cut. Circumcision is scheduled to take place across Western counties of Bungoma, Kakamega and Busia next month. “It is unfortunate that some of our people were seen escorting a non-Bukusu to undergo circumcision as early as yesterday. That was against the customs,” Kakai said. The street boys underwent circumcision on Tuesday. Kakai said stern action will be taken against those who conducted the cut. She asked police to intervene and stop circumcision marches until August. She said residents should not be allowed to engage in the practice outside the designated months. The biennial practice is also conducted during the month of December. Kakai said the boys should prioritise their studies until the schools are closed. “As a community, we acknowledge the period set for our boys to undergo the initiation. That is August and December and not any other month of the calendar,” Kakai said.  ABANDON CLASSES She blamed those she accused of opposition to Luhya traditions, saying they were pushing residents to conduct the cut earlier. Two weeks ago, teachers raised alarm over boys deserting school to prepare for circumcision. About 10,000 boys aged between 10 and 14 are expected to undergo the cut which is a rite of passage among the Bukusu and Tachoni subtribes of the Luhya. Kenya National Union of Teachers said the boys had started their preparations too early. Knut secretary general for Bungoma East Aggrey Namisi asked administrators and education officials to ensure the boys remain in schools until the end of the term. ‘’We want police and chiefs to be on high alert to ensure boys do not spend the nights singing and dancing along roads in preparations for the event. Such actions will affect their performance,” Namisi said. Among those preparing for the circumcision are Kenya Certificate of Primary Education candidates. Speaking to the star in his office, Namisi said concerted efforts were needed to ensure the candidates studies are not affected. “Performance in national examinations usually drop during circumcision years because candidates abandon classes to prepare for the initiation,” Namisi said.