The death of eight black rhinos at the Tsavo East National Park could have been avoided had Kenya Wildlife Service heeded the warning against the animals translocation. The rhinos were moved to Tsavo from Nakuru and Nairobi national parks. A preliminary report had advised against the translocation, a source told the Star yesterday. The recommendations of the report were not made public. The report warned against the move because water within the Tsavo East National Park is saline and that food available had been diminished by the many wildlife within the park. Read:Mystery shrouds fate of translocated rhinos, seven reportedly dead Multiple sources who spoke to the Star on phone yesterday gave contradicting information on how the translocation had been done. The Star was also told that a statement had been prepared after the death of rhinos. However, Tourism CS Najib Balala did not release the statement when he ordered suspension of translocation last week. In his statement, Balala agreed with the claim that the rhinos died as a result of salt poisoning at their new home. “These findings are consistent with cases of salt poisoning in other animal species, indicating a challenge in translocated rhino adaptation to change from fresh water to saline water in the sanctuary," Balala said. "The high salt levels lead to dehydration that triggers thirst mechanism, resulting in excess water intake of the saline water that further exacerbates the problem." On Thursday, Balala directed KWS to immediately suspend the translocation exercise following the death of eight rhinos. He said 11 rhinos had been relocated. He said the remaining three were closely being monitored by veterinary officers and park managers. The three, all translocated from Nakuru, were safe and in good health, the CS said. Translocation has often been successful over the years with minimal deaths. “Between 2005 and 2017, 149 rhinos have been translocated with eight mortalities, excluding the current deaths," Balala said. There was only one death reported for the 74 rhinos immobilised for ear-notching between July last year and February. See:Balala suspends rhino transfers after eight die of salt poisoning Balala has since instructed senior veterinary pathologist Peter Gathumbi to probe the deaths. Professor Gathumbi is a researcher at the University of Nairobi. Gathumbi collected samples on July 12, days after KWS confirmed the deaths Balala has also sought an input from Dr. Markus Hoffmeyer, a wildlife conservationist, rhino veterinarian and translocation expert from South Africa. Click here for the latest political news