Recently President Uhuru Kenyatta stated that all senior
government officers, starting with himself, would undergo a lifestyle audit. The
President made this decision as part of his ongoing fight against corruption.
This decision was supported strongly by the public. But what is a lifestyle audit? A simple definition is that it is the analysis of a
person's living standards to see if it is consistent with his reported income. Steven
Powell explains
that lifestyle audit is a term commonly used by forensic auditors to
describe the tests performed to determine if the lifestyle of an
employee is commensurate with their known income stream. He explains that fraud is
very difficult to
detect because it is usually committed by means of “off book” transactions or manipulated accounting
records. Another reason is dishonestly inclined professionals are able to conceal
their frauds with disturbing alacrity and ease, particular in work environments
with weak controls or limited segregation of duty. So sometimes the only clue to corruption is a sudden unexplained change
in an employee’s lifestyle. Lifestyle audits are therefore legitimate fraud
prevention and detection mechanisms. A lifestyle audit can be used to flag an employee who could
be engaged in corruption. It is actually very simple. If an employee earns ‘x’
but lives a lifestyle that is ‘x + y’, then unless the employee can explain
where they got the ‘y’, they have stolen it from their employer (or somewhere
else). So a lifestyle audit is simple basic arithmetic. In government, conducting a lifestyle audit on a public
servant is even easier because a public servant’s life is supposed to be open
and transparent. This is because they have been employed to manage public
resources and like the proverbial ‘Caesar’s wife’ they are supposed to be clear
of any suspicion, especially as regards how they manage these public resources.
They cannot be suspected of stealing from the public. A lifestyle audit is the
tool that clears them of such suspicions, or finds them guilty and opens more
detailed investigations. To conduct a lifestyle audit, the auditor first looks at
the employee’s declared income, whether from salary or businesses. The employee
should also declare any other financial sources they use to support their
lifestyle. The auditor then compares the total money available to the employee,
and the lifestyle the employee lives. They will look at how much school fees
they pay for their children, the rent or mortgage (or purchase price) of the
house(s) they own, the value of the vehicles they drive, costs of holidays,
food budget and general upkeep of their families. They will also look at
charities they support, etc. Only when there is a glaring discrepancy between
the lifestyle someone lives and their declared income is there cause for alarm,
and calls for further investigations. Undergoing a lifestyle audit is therefore not a sign that
one is corrupt. In fact, undergoing this audit could be what confirms that one
is not corrupt. For example, we might assume you are corrupt because your
lifestyle does not match your salary but maybe you inherited a large sum of
money, or you have businesses we do not know about, or your spouse earns a lot
more than we think, etc. A lifestyle audit is therefore something anyone who
knows they are not corrupt but thinks they are suspected to be, should welcome. So, to the group of MPs and senators who believe that
calls for a lifestyle audit are targeted at stopping someone from becoming
President in 2022, why not turn the lifestyle audit around? Why not use the lifestyle
audit to show Kenyans how hard your preferred candidate has worked to acquire
what they have? Why not use the lifestyle audit to shame all those who are
always pointing accusing fingers at your candidate on corruption? This is what I would do.