Our committee was not served with the report from the task force formed by the Ministry of Education. As a chair of the National Lands Committee, I have a lot of respect for the Senate but whatever they are doing now has already been overtaken by events. We missed that and had no information about it. Whatever they are doing now is an exercise in futility because there's a report tabled on the floor of the National Assembly. It was amended and made better before adoption. That report is now at the stage of implementation. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee is wasting the Kenyan taxpayers' money. Have you heard of anything new emanating from that committee, anything different from what came from the National Assembly Lands committee? Investigations into the disputed Ruaraka land matter by this Senate committee is a total waste of public resources. I reiterate the ongoing process is a waste of public funds. As a committee mandated to investigate the matter, we compiled a report, tabled it and it was adopted with several amendments. Supposing the Senate committee made a contradictory report over the same matter, they will be giving an opportunity to the public to conclude that Parliament did not conduct a proper job. Henceforth, let me say that my committee did its work diligently as required by the Constitution. We used as much information as we could get from various witnesses as we conducted the due process. There was also information that we were limited from getting during the probe. I can say without fear of contradiction that this duplicate investigation by the Senate committee — asking the same questions we asked over the same matter from the same stakeholders and getting the same answers — is a waste of public funds. It's a total waste of time for Cabinet Secretaries to be summoned to appear. I watched and I pitied CS Amina Mohamed. The National Assembly Lands committee chairperson and MP for Kitui South spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news   