Kenya has been listed among leading innovation hubs globally, ranking fourth in Africa in the latest Global Innovation Index. The survey by the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) ranked Kenya at position 78 globally. It placed the country behind South Africa, Mauritius and Morocco in Africa. South Africa leads the continent at position 58 globally while Mauritius and Morocco are at positions 75 and 76 respectively. Switzerland led the world for the eighth year running. It ranked first in various patent and IP-related indicators, as well as second in high and medium high-tech manufacturing production. Netherlands came second while Sweden and US followed in third and fourth places respectively. According to the survey, Kenya continues to achieve high levels of innovation relative to its levels of development, a continuous performance since 2011. ''Strengths for Kenya are access to credit , innovation linkages and exports of creative services, such as research and development, workforce efficiency and printing'', the survey noted. The survey looks at institutions stability, human capital, infrastructure, market sophistication, business sophistication, technology and creative output. Kenya scored 66.4 and 63.2 per cent in regulatory and business environment respectively but poor political stability and rule of law scores of 33.9 and 29.4 per cent hurt its general institutional stability score that averaged 55.3 per cent. Although Kenya’s business sophistication index is among top 50 in the world with a score of 33.3 per cent, the country lags at position 112 and103 globally in terms of human capital and infrastructure respectively. The country is ranked at position 64 globally in terms of releasing innovation to the world and ranked at 91 for embracing innovation from other countries. "Innovation acts as a motor for economic growth in an increasingly knowledge-based global economy, but more investment is needed to strengthen human creativity and increase economic output," said WIPO director general Francis Gurry. Now in its eleventh edition, the GII is a detailed quantitative tool that helps global decision makers better understand how to stimulate the innovative activity that drives economic and human development.