Counties benefitting from the Equalisation Fund have opposed a proposal to include more regions in the kitty, saying their share will be unfairly reduced. The Commission for Revenue Allocation (CRA) wants to classify more counties as marginalised to enable them benefit from the fund. Only 14 counties benefit from the kitty meant for water, electricity, roads and health services in marginalised regions. Read: 14 counties to get Sh12bn Equalization Fund They are Mandera, Marsabit, Wajir, Turkana, Isiolo, Baringo, Samburu, Garissa, Narok, Kitui, Isiolo, Tana River, West Pokot and Samburu. All fall below the average national poverty index. The CRA also wants to change the formula for funds-sharing. Last month, the commission invited proposals on readjusting the formula. The agency wants funds to be shared with counties that are not below the average national poverty index but contain areas of extreme poverty and marginalisation. Such counties include Nairobi, Kiambu, Nyeri, Uasin Gishu and Laikipia. Marginalised counties have threatened to sue the CRA. Speaking to the Star on Saturday, Mandera Governor Ali Roba said the move will stretch thin the plans of marginalised counties. Roba, who chairs the Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC), deplored lack of basic amenities in the regions. “Devolution has done more than what the national government did for half a century, yet some people want to cripple that. We’ll not allow it. I will proceed to court if this proposal sees the light of the day,” Roba said. He blamed Sessional Paper Number 10 passed in 1965, which locked out some parts of the country from development, resulting in the marginalisation. The plan undermined development in arid and semi-arid regions, he said, by declaring government priorities be concentrated in high potential regions. “This was a deliberate plan by the government that pushed these counties ubto poverty. It is why we don’t have roads, health facilities, water and other basic social amenities. It is sad some people want to jeopardise the only way to correct that injustice,” Roba said Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, who spoke in Loiyangalani on Saturday, asked the county bosses to be patient. “It is a consultative process and and it would be better to wait before taking any legal action. They should give their proposal during public participation,” Eugene said. Turkana has often received the lion’s share of the funds since its inception in 2013. Read: Concern of delayed release sh 360 million equalization fund for water projects in Wajir Click here for
the latest political news