Toilet operators have defied the county government’s notice to stop running the facilities. The 48-hour notice issued on Friday expired on Sunday. “Please note that as per our records, you do not have a Public Toilet Agreement,” reads the notice signed by Environment chief officer David Makori. “The governor has given a directive that all public toilets are to be reclaimed from private operators to the county as the government envisages on how best they will be managed,” Makori said. Yesterday, the private operators were still running the facilities and residents were still paying. On Wednesday last week, Governor Mike Sonko said the services would be free. He said the facilities are managed by cartels who do not care about the residents, adding there are frequent fights and underhand dealings among the managers. The governor reaffirmed the decision during a cleanup in Kayole on Saturday, saying his administration will hire a private firm to run the facilities. “My government is capable and will manage all expenses in a contract that will be signed soon,” Sonko said. won’t stop But Toilet Operators Association of Kenya chairman Tom Makale said they will stay put. He accused the county of ignoring a court order. Makale said they will continue running the toilets as “we invested heavily in them.” “We have three court orders that have been issued by different judges. The first one was issued in 2006, the other in 2015 and the other this year, to stop the county from interfering with our business,” he said. “The governor has never talked to us to even know how we operate, who we are and whether we pay fees to the county.” Majority leader Abdi Guyo, however, urged the governor to allow youths manage the toilets to create jobs. In March, rival youths fought over the control of a toilet at OTC in the central business district. Operator Sammy Karanja said they would only vacate the facilities if ordered by the court. “There is something we call the rule of law. You cannot operate somewhere for 18 years, for someone to come and ask you to leave within 48 hours, unless that person has some interest,” he said. Last week, Karanja said they built 12 toilets in the CBD from scratch in 1999 following a public-private partnership between the now-defunct city council and Nairobi Central Business District Association. There are about 150 public toilets in the city. Twelve of them — Kenya Planters Cooperative Union, OTC, General Post Office, Kirinyaga road, Accra road, Globe Cinema, National Archives and five others at Uhuru Park - are in the CBD and the rest are in markets. Some were built by the NCBDA and others by the Constituency Development Fund. The now-defunct council mainly constructed toilets in the markets. not immediately Environment executive Larry Wambua said the operators do not have contracts with the county to run the facilities. He denied existence of an active court order barring the county from taking over the management of the facilities. “We issued a two-day notice but that does not mean that we will immediately take over the toilets,” he said. We are in the process of procuring a contractor to run the facilities and once that is done, we will again inform them before we take them.” he said.