Kilifi North MP Owen Baya has faulted Kilifi governor Amason Kingi and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho for “failing to provide political direction” to the region. He said the two are senior and influential politicians at the Coast but they have “chickened out” in taking the region in the right direction. Baya said the two leaders have been “playing it safe for their own selfish interests”. He spoke in Dabaso on Wednesday. “They know the right direction for this region, but they do not want to man up and say this is the way to go. Their main fear has been losing popularity once they go against the dictates of ODM,” Baya said. “They all want to be in government but none wants to make it clear that we partner with a presidential candidate who is likely to win.” Kingi said the region must have its bargaining power before looking for a partner. “There are two ways of being in the government. You can be in government through invitation or you can be in government through partnership. If you are invited, you can be kicked out anytime, but if you are a partner, the moment they try to kick you out, the government collapses,” he said. Baya disagreed with Kingi on the political party, saying leaders do not want to associate themselves with their own party for fear of losing their dream. "They have also killed the call for a Coast party but the Coast people are ready for their own party. The political history of our country is clear and it tells us all the famous politicians started at home," he said. Baya said it is time for the region to go as a team to benefit politically and stop playing safe. “We do not need friends to partner with politically. It is time for our leaders to stop being cowards because they lack the courage to say this is where we are heading. They fear that when they differ with Raila no one will be elected and that is why they play it safe,” the MP said. He said he was told he would lose his political career if he went against Raila. “But what they do not know is that we are the same people who taught them how to sing Raila and Tialala and we are the same people who will teach them how to sing another song and it needs courage,” he said. Click here for the latest political news