The trend towards power sharing is a longstanding solution and has been utilised as a conflict resolution tactic or preventive action solution in other instances. A good illustration is the Liberian example where an Interim Government of National Unity was established to bring about political transition through democratic election in July 1997. This interim government intended to bring unity in Liberia to end hostilities and pave way for a transitional government following an election. IGNU’s success was hindered by its inability to create a governing structure to end the violence by warring factions. South Africa is another example of this form of governance, with the formation of a coalition or interim government just before the end of apartheid, during the Codesa conferences. In 1978 Zimbabwe had a similar arrangement known as Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, a union of the Ian Smith regime and the so-called progressive nationalists led by Bishop Abel Muzorewa. While it didn’t last long, it paved the way for Lancaster House negotiations culminating in Zimbabwe’s independence. The Ivory Coast GNU between the government and New Forces rebels under the Ouagadougou peace agreement of 2007 is another example of the inclination towards the GNU form of government. The trend to GNUs is not necessarily a new trend; what is significant is that it has recently become a popular option in resolving election disputes. In 2007, following the Kenyan elections and announcement of the winner, violence broke out. The success of any GNU depends on why it was enacted, the motivations of parties involved and the mandate of both the mediator and of the GNU itself. GNUs may in the interim quell conflict but they do not necessarily address root causes of crisis. Nonetheless, in the era of new forms of political disputes, these arrangements can provide the necessary platform to at least facilitate the process of conflict transformation. While elections are essential to democracy they are not the only element contributing to strong peace. The head of the Knowledge Production Department at ACCORD first published this article in 2011. These are excerpts. Read: Is Uhuru planning unity government? Also read: President Kibaki was the architect of unity governments in Kenya Click here for the latest political news