Kiambu High Court has set aside the acquittal of pastor James Ng'ang'a and three others in the case of a woman's death in an accident three years ago. Kiambu judge Christine Meoli set aside the acquittal on Tuesday after assistant DPP Catherine Mwaniki filed a petition on Monday. Mwaniki had asked the court to reverse the order and put the suspects on defence. Meoli said the case will heard afresh from August 1, a process that will begin with the hearing of witness accounts. The ODPP also requested for the case to be heard before a "different and competent" judge. On May 4, however, they were acquitted, Chief Magistrate Godfrey Oduor of Limuru Law Courts saying they had no case to answer. The DPP filed an appeal. It was alleged that the Neno Evangelism Centre pastor had been driving Range Rover Sport KCD 060Q on August 26, 2015 when he collided head-on with Nissan March KBZ 709W, leading to Mercy Njeri's death. The accident took place at Manguo area on Naivasha-Nakuru highway. The pastor, his driver Simon Kuria and police officers Patrick Baya and Christopher Nzioka faced several charges following the death that resulted from dangerous driving. More on this: Pastor James Ng'ang'a 'has no case to answer' in death of Limuru woman Also see: DPP appeals Pastor James Ng’ang’a acquittal in accident case The DPP filed a petition which noted he was wholly aggrieved and dissatisfied with Oduor's decision. The petition stated that "the magistrate erred both in law and fact in failing to find that the prosecution had discharged its burden of proof". It added that "the trial magistrate failed to properly analyse all of the prosecution's evidence thereby causing a miscarriage of justice". The ODPP further noted that Oduor was mistaken in holding that the persecution's case was full of contradictions.  The contradictions were minor and did not affect the prosecution's case, the petition noted. It stated further that: "The magistrate erred by holding circumstantial evidence which included forensic evidence, Safaricom data and cybercrime data adduced by the state and did not meet required legal standards." Kuria and Nzioka had been accused of giving false information to police while Baya, who was Tigoni police station base commander, faced a charge of neglecting his duties. After the acquittal, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i tasked the DCI with investigating the case afresh o reach “a suitable corrective and deterrent action against persons found culpable for its improper handling”. He said the ministry was surprised by the ruling as “a brazen crime was committed” and added that justice must be pursued for the victims and the public. Read more: Matiang'i orders fresh probe into pastor Ng'ang'a's accident case Other details: I’ll follow up Pastor Ng’ang’a case to ensure justice for victims — MP Click here for the latest political news