Just a week after they saw off Vihiga United in the SportPesa Premier League, Ulinzi Stars must do that again this weekend when the two sides face off in SportPesa Shield.
The match will be staged at the Mumias Sports Complex once again and Ulinzi coach Dunstan admits it will be another very tricky affair even though he has assured of good planning and a few chances.
The third round clash in the knockout competition will be the third meeting in the history of the two sides with Vihiga having won the first ever meeting at Afraha Stadium in April.
“It will be a tricky game for us because after winning this one, they will want to stop us in the next, and honestly they are a good side—very technical and fast.
“I will definitely have to change a few things. Every game comes with its strategy and having played them here and won, they will definitely have some strategy for us as well. We therefore have to change our tactics,” he said.
The coach added that the Sunday win was a factor of good planning for the game and lauded the state of the pitch at the Mumias Sports Complex.
“With good planning, it is always very easy to get your targets. We had planned well for this match and we knew what we wanted. We also took advantage of the good playing surface. It is not easy to get such a surface in Kenya,” he added.
Elsewhere, Despite seeing his team’s winless run extend to six matches after they twice came from behind to draw with basement club Wazito last weekend, Mathare coach Francis Kimanzi still found praise for the club’s latest striking sensation Klinsman Omulanga.
Omulanga, who joined the club this year, scored a crucial equaliser at the Kenyatta Stadium last Saturday after being introduced at the restart and capped a fine performance with an unstoppable volley that secured a point against the bottom placed side.
“He has shown a lot of positives in training for the last two weeks and all of us on the technical bench were in agreement that he should in our plans for that game. I am happy that he gave us what we wanted and this also shows he is growing. He can only get better,” said Kimanzi. Kimanzi took pride in the remarkable comeback and was satisfied with a point against a Wazito side that is rooted at the bottom of the 18-team league and is fighting for every point to extend their stay in the Premier League beyond their maiden campaign.
“It was a good game because the boys showed character to come from behind and get a point. It is difficult to play against a team that is always motivated to pick points against the top teams. “We were anxious and wanted to take the lead earlier but that is normal when you are playing against a side that is facing relegation,” assessed Kimanzi. Omulanga joins a growing list of youngsters who have made an impression this season with Cliff Nyakeya, Johnstone Omurwa, Ahmed Ahmad, David Owino, John Mwangi and Martin Ongori topping the list. Mathare face another tricky fxiture against  a releagtion threatened side this weekend when Sony Sugar pay them, a visit at ruararak grounds  on Saturday.