Tourism CS Najib Balala has been criticised for suspending six senior Kenya Wildlife Service officers over the death of 10 rhinos transferred to Tsavo East National Park. Former KWS board chairman Richard Leakey on Friday said there was no board in place to take disciplinary actions against the suspended officials. “The absence of a board for the three months has left weighty decisions entirely with the ministry. This is not provided for in the existing legislation governing KWS and its operations,” Leakey said. He said Balala’s announcement of the suspensions was unfortunate because it failed to reflect the fundamental issues behind the deaths. “He should perhaps dig deeper into the real problems at KWS,” Leakey in a statement. He said the issue of translocating the rhinos to Tsavo came up three times during his three years as board chairman. “On each occasion, the board noted that there were concerns about the lack of vegetation in the sanctuary that could sustain rhinos,” he said. The rhino deaths were due to multiple stress syndrome and salt poisoning. Leaky said the board had also raised concerns about safety of the water at the park. The board directed that no translocation should happen unless the concerns were adequately addressed. Leakey was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to chair the KWS Board from April 27, 2015, to April 27 this year. Balala on Thursday announced the suspension of the six officials following the deaths of 10 of the 11 rhinos translocated to Tsavo. They are deputy director biodiversity, research and monitoring Samuel Kasik; head of veterinary and capture Francis Gakuya; head of capture service Isaac Leekolol; Tsavo East senior warden Felix Mwangangi; head of ecological monitoring Mohammed Omar and senior scientist Fredrick Lala. Balala said the tenth rhino “sadly died on Wednesday while the remaining female had been attacked by lions”. Investigations show their translocation had been poorly managed. Separately, the Union of Veterinary Practitioners said the suspensions were uncalled for. EXPERIENCED Chairman Benson Kibore said the the veterinary officers had not committed offences that warranted the move. “The officers have overseen thousands of wildlife translocations,” Kibore said. He said the government should treat the veterinary doctors with caution because there aren’t many. Kibore said there are less than 400 veterinary doctors in public service, with half of them set to attain the mandatory retirement age by June next year. He said there are only six veterinary surgeons at KWS. “They serve the one million wildlife population with only one at the entire Amboseli-Tsavo complex,” Kibore said. He said those suspended are the most experienced. Kibore credited them with the growth in numbers of animals in national parks. “The officers have decades of experience in translocating over 100 rhinos with zero calamities,” he said. Kibore defended the officers saying they safely immobilised, woke, loaded, transported and released the rhinos at the bomas for a week before the final decision to release them to the wild. “The environmental assessment report indicated positive survival and they had no control over other areas that do not fall within their jurisdiction,” he said. INCONSISTENT FINDINGS Kenya Veterinary Association chairman Samuel Kahariri said the findings about multiple stress as the cause of deaths were inconsistent. “The first thing that happens after any sickness is stress and therefore stress came after the salt poisoning and not vice versa,” he said in a statement on Friday. Kahariri said David Zimmerman, one of the officials who probed the deaths, was not registered to practice in Kenya. “His findings can only be treated as those of a layman,” he said. He asked the Kenya Veterinary Board to take disciplinary action against Zimmerman.