Wiper party on Saturday resolved to support government's agenda in Parliament. The decision was reached during the party's National Executive Council meeting at the Wiper headquarters. The Kalonzo Musyoka led party has been a key member of opposition's NASA coalition. The others are ODM party led by Raila Odinga and Ford Kenya whose leader is Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula. “It is now the decision of the NEC/PG of the Wiper to directly work with President Uhuru in his effort to transform Kenya. Our members of parliament should stand guided by this resolution,"  part of the party resolution read. Read: Kalonzo offers to help prevent Raila and Wetang'ula's divorce The party said it is satisfied with President Uhuru Kenyatta's efforts to fight corruption and will henceforth support him in his development agenda. “We, therefore, laud the valiant efforts by Uhuru Kenyatta and his government to decisively deal with corruption and set the stage for the big four agenda,” the statement read. Wiper said the move was orchestrated by the handshake between opposition chief Raila Odinga and President Uhuru on March 9. It said the political situation in the country had stabilized and therefore a total closure of the electoral season. “We appreciate the wisdom and selfless leadership displayed by our two leaders, the President and Raila Odinga which has seen the country move towards love and unity,” it stated. Raila's ODM party has also said it will support Jubilee's agenda but will not hesitate to criticise the government if it operates against the constitution. Ford Kenya party has not publicly declared if it will work with Uhuru's Jubilee party. In the recent past, its leader Moses Wetangula has insisted that the party is no longer part of the NASA coalition although it has not made a formal withdrawal. On Thursday, ODM party members came out guns blazing in defence of Raila against attacks by Wetang'ula. The party claimed that Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested and charged with treason after his swearing-in as people's president on January 30, and that he was aware. "Kenya was bleeding, nothing was moving, the Kenyan shilling had dropped tremendously and many schools had been closed. He saved Kenya by agreeing to work with Uhuru,” the party said in a statement read by chairman John Mbadi. “Wetang’ula wanted Raila arrested, charged and sent to jail so that he could celebrate. He is not the kind of a friend one needs," the ODM party's parliamentary group said. The party was responding to Wetang'ula’s sustained attacks on Raila, which climaxed with an exclusive interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday night. Wetang’ula ripped into Raila in a no-holds-barred attack, describing him as a perpetual party wrecker with a legacy tracing back to Kanu, Narc and Cord days. He said Raila is not a team player and cannot be trusted by anyone. But in a bare-knuckle response, ODM dismissed the Bungoma senator as a dishonest coward. “Wetang’ula is the least person to talk about betrayal. He does not believe in any values that a politician worth his title should hold. Shouting hoarse in funerals and weddings won’t make him a latter-day saint. His past betrays him,” they charged. “He has forgotten so fast how the man he only refers to as Raila came to his rescue when Musikari Kombo was about to win in the 2013 senatorial by-election in Bungoma,” they added. Read:I'm not in NASA, political journey with Raila is over, says Wetang'ula lated : Signs Raila will run in 2022, NASA co-principals back to drawing board Click here for the latest political news    