Church leades in the North Rift region have demanded for prosecution of politicians alleged to have been involved in perpetrating banditry in the North Rift region. More than 160 bishops, pastors and other clergy met under the NCCK and said banditry had caused too much suffering for residents in affected counties including the death of more than 500 people and those linked to the violence should not be left to go scot free. “We urge President Kenyatta to reorganize security machinery in the region and ensure that all those involved in the criminal activities especially politicians must be prosecuted”, said a statement by the clergymen led by NCCK Chairman in the region Reverend Dr Paul Korir. He said the politicians should not be allowed to hide behind their tribes and continue committing criminal offenses and evil against innocent people in the region. Korir who spoke after a regional conference of the NCCK in Eldoret on Sunday said the church leaders would intensify activities to preach peace and unity of communities in the region. Deputy Governor for Elgeyo Marakwet Wesley Rotich has also linked the banditry to a cartel involving influential people. Last week a report released by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights linked several politicians including two sitting MPs and a former lawmaker to violence and cattle rustling in the North Rift Valley. Turkana South MP James Lomenen, Baringo North MP William Cheptumo and former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama were among those named in the report. The blamed some Turkana MCAs, security forces, police, bandits and others for the trouble. The politicians have however denied the accusations and said they were open to investigations. KNCHR carried out a enquiry in the region on banditry and its effects on human rights and witnesses told the inquiry that Lomenen recruited and armed youth to attack Pokots at Nadome. The report said he also incited youth at Kalemng’orok and at Ngamia 1 in 2014. Contacted by the Star , Lomenen accused the KNCHR of trying to incite residents. He said on the phone there is no evidence. “I am a peacemaker. Let these human rights people produce anyone who says I incited Turkanas to kill Pokots,” he said. The report also cites second-term MP Cheptumo. It says that in 2012-13 violence erupted between the Pokot and Tugen. It says Cheptumo announced that Loruk was part of his constituency and the Pokot-Tugen border was nine kilometres inside East Pokot near Chesirimioni. Pokot politicians told the community their land had been taken, sparking violence and killings. In response Cheptumo termed the allegations serious. He said he was ready to be probed. Cheptumo admitted making the remarks when former PM Raila Odinga launched the Loruk-Berbello road, but he denied that caused violence. “What I said was fact. Cattle rustling has been going on since 1977 when I was in school. KNCHR didn’t get my side,” he said. The report said a witness told KNCHR that in 2015 at Mukutani, Kamama said that within one week Pokot herders will have left Arabal where they had raided. Kamama told the Star he worked for peace and was ready to be probed. “My influence in the community is positive. That’s why I worked with communities to put up many schools and use education to change lives,” he said. Reverend Korir however says the violence had denied many people the right to life and other freedoms hence the need for action against those involved.