The Solai Dam that burst its banks in May, killing 47 people was not licensed and therefore was illegal, Water Cabinet Secretary Simon Chelugui told a Senate committee yesterday. Testifying before the ad hoc committee investigating the May 9 tragedy, Chelugui said the only document in their records was the permit allowing Salt Manufacturers  permission to erect a weir to divert water to
the dam on the Patel farm in Nakuru. “We
were shocked because there is a contradiction between what is on the
ground and what is in the records,” Chelugui told the committee chaired by
Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr at County Hall, Nairobi, Read: Killer Solai Dam built before an environment audit, says Nema The operator of the dam was only permitted to abstract the water by a weir of 2.5 meters high, he said. A weir is a low dam built across a river to raise the level of water upstream or regulate its flow. The
CS said the Water Resources Management Authority (Warma) has no
report about the dam, adding that there could have been collusion between
government officials and the dam owners. The Solai dam is one of six on a farm owned by Mansulkul Patel. It 
also emerged that Warma has never inspected the dam
since 2009 and no report  on the dam has been
filed at the water agency . Senators
Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo), Johnson Sakaja (Nairobi) and Susan Kihika
(Nakuru)  accused Warma CEO Mohamed Shurie of incompetence and asked
Chelugui to take action against him and all other individuals involved
in actions or omissions that caused the accident. Opinion: Why poor Solai dam tragedy victims may never get justice The
senators expressed concern that although the Warma officers knew
that the Patel dam was illegal, they did not informed the relevant authorities to take the necessary action. “We
are beholden to people who do not know what they want. They have never
reported they were denied access to the farm and never gave the
true picture of what happens at the farm,” Sakaja said. Mutula
said Warma failed in its mandate to carry out
periodic monitoring based on the owner's report on how developers are
operating and maintaining the dams on the property. Today
Kenya Red Cross boss Abbas Gullet has been called to testify before the
committee and describe the challenges they encountered as they
were among the first rescuers to respond to the disaster call. Details: Solai Dam walls cracked long before tragedy, says report Click here for the latest political news