Migori Governor Okoth Obado has taken the collision path with ODM by asking his supporters to ignore its choice of Ochillo Ayacko as the candidate for the Senator race. Obado addressed the people on Friday while celebrating the Kisumu Court of Appeal's decision to uphold his victory in last year's election. He won the case that arose from an appeal by Ayacko, a former Cabinet minister, who vied as an independent candidate. The judge ordered Ayacko to pay Sh4.5 million as the cost of the suit. More on this: Appeal Court validates Obado's election, slaps Ayacko with Sh4.5 million fine Obado told the people to reject the Senator hopeful, a remark that is likely to raise political temperatures in the county. “We will not allow two or three people to sit in Nairobi and dictate where Migori residents should go as if we are blind," he said, noting voters should exercise their democratic right. "We will not accept the decision. It will affect the outcome of the 2022 election as a few people will decide who should be voted for, from MCA to all other seats." While noting that the late Senator Ben Oluoch was from Rongo while Ayacko hails from Awendo, the Governor said he will ensure the constituency retains the seat. He further asked his supporters to ignore people campaigning for Ayacko merely because the decision to hand him a direct ticket was from above. "If anybody comes here and tells you to support him because the decision was from above, tell him to seek voters from above," he said. Obado's remarks seemingly mean that ODM leader Raila Odinga failed in his attempt to reconcile him and Ayacko during the burial of the late Senator. At that ceremony, Ayacko promised to withdraw his elections case and embrace peace with Obado, a decision the Governor said was "full of propaganda". The county chief said: "I am from the court so I ask myself 'what did he pull out'?" Obado said he won the elections in a free and fair process. ODM announced its selection of Ayacko shortly after Obado's court victory was declared. The party cited financial and time constraints in explaining the decision to give the politician the direct ticket. Ayacko faces an uphill task against seven other candidates who have vowed to be on the ballot, despite missing the ODM ticket. Details: Aspirants unhappy as ODM hands Ayacko ticket for Migori Senate by-election Also see: Obado and Ayacko finally shake hands Click here for the latest political stories