The temptation to tag the Gor Mahia squad as the ‘Greatest of All Time’ are increasing with each passing game at home and on the continental front. In a week, three crucial matches in different tourneys were dispensed with utmost ease. They started off with the league win over AFC Leopards before triumphing over Posta Rangers in the Shield last Wednesday and wrapped up the week with victory over Yanga in the Caf Confederation Cup. The 3-2 win away in Dar pushed Gor not only to claim top spot in Group ‘D’ after favourites USM Alger were held to a shock 1-1 draw by Rayon Sports but also edged them to within a point of the last eight and one of the remaining two sides in the tourney yet to lose a match. After four matches, Gor have eight points same as USM but have scored more goals. On Sunday night in the sweltering Dar night, it took only 30 seconds for Gor to breach the Yanga defence. The Tanzanians kicked off the tie and duly lost possession after an exchange of passes between the impressive duo of Humphrey Mieno and Francis Kahata and the ball ended on the right wing to Samuel Onyango. The wide man’s cross was met by a diving header from George Odhiambo, who beat Rostand Youthe to stun the home crowd. Chances were a dime a dozen as Gor threatened to embarrass the hosts in their own turf. Onyango should have doubled the lead after ten minutes but went for power rather than precision when eyeball to eyeball with Youthe. Moments later, the Yanga keeper of Cameroonian descent, spilled the ball into the path of Kevin Omondi in the box. The number 14 had too much time to pick his spot but could not find a way past a stranded Youthe. Next it was left back Godfrey Walusimbi’s turn to try his luck on goal but his effort was pushed away for a corner. Haroun Shakava headed it wide with the keeper beaten. Odhiambo was again released down the left by Kahata but once again Youthe thwarted him. It was like Gor against the Cameroonian keeper. The pressure finally led to a mistake as Youthe handled the ball twice in his box leading to an indirect free kick which Jacques Tuyisenge tucked away. The game was well and truly won. But the jitters Gor keeper Boniface Oluoch was showing between the posts were to give the home side a life-line after the break. The errant shot stopper spilled a shot from long range, allowing Deuce Kaseke to halve the deficit seven minutes into the second half.