Deputy President William Ruto has told politicians to stop premature campaigns for 2022 and divisive politics and focus on services. He urged leaders to unite Kenyans regardless of their political affiliation or tribe. “The measure of any leadership or political party in Kenya will be on the agenda of transforming the lives of Kenyans. Success or failure will depend on what they delivered in critical aspects of the lives of Kenyans,” Ruto said. He spoke at Navakholo centre in Kakamega county on Friday. He laid the foundation stone for the area branch of Kenya Medical Training College. But as the DP cautioned against early campaigns - which he has been accused of doing - Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba, National Assembly majority chief whip Ben Washiali and Sports CS Rashid Echesa drummed up support for his 2022 bid. Read:Ruto blames local road contractors for laxity, shoddy work “The Deputy President is a man who says what he means and in 2022 we shall not do guess work again but stand with him,” Namwamba said. Washiali urged ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula to leave NASA and join Jubilee. Echesa said Luhyas will return the favour of appointments they received from Jubilee in 2022. On Monday, Wetang’ula declared NASA is dead and he is concentrating on rebuilding his party ahead of 2022. On Friday, Ruto said ethnicity and friction will not add value to Kenyans. Lugari MP Ayub Savula, Malulu Injendi (Malava) and Titus Khamala (Lurambi) attended the function. lazy On July 6, Ruto told Luhyas to support Jubilee. “You look for Uhuru Kenyatta and me when it comes to development but during campaigns you tell us tibim. If you continue like that we shall report you to heaven,” he said at Musanda market. Ruto said the government had already issued a notice for the termination of two contracts for tarmacking the Lurambi-Navakaholo-Musikoma-Ibokolo and Shianda-Malaha roads. “The relevant ministry has already identified other contractors with capacity to implement the contracts. The problem with our local contractors is they are lazy and crafty,” he said. He said the NCDF will give Sh40 million while the Ministry of Health will contribute Sh20 million for KMTC. Ruto said the college should be completed and ready to offer training within a year. Click here for the latest political news