Former US President Barack Obama is expected to land in Ng’iya Girls’ School’s football field in Siaya before being driven to Kogalo to launch his half-sister’s foundation. Before this, Obama will meet President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition chief Raila Odinga in Nairobi. Ngiya Girls principal Florence Okut confirmed top US security officials inspected the field yesterday but said she does not know whether it will be used. Read : Oprah in Obama’s delegation to Kenya The former US President will be accompanied by 400 dignitaries as he opens Auma Obama’s Sauti Kuu Foundation. “Obama has always supported me and I will be happy again when he joins his sister on this big day to set up the new sports, resource and vocational training centre on Monday in Alego, Siaya county,” Auma said. There are plans to set up five more training centres in the country. “I would be happy to see people utilise their farms back in the village and stop moving to cities. Most countries in Europe do not have plumbers, carpenters and other people who can do masonry. We also have to understand that the work done by hands can pay better than white collar jobs,” Auma said.  BUILD YOUR OWN NAME Plumbing and construction will be among the training offered. Auma is Barack Obama Senior’s daughter from his first wife Kezia Aoko, while Barrack was born out of a union between Obama Senior and Ann Dunham, an American. Auma said, “I am grateful he is my brother and he has supported me all the way. From his name, people have easily recognised me, but everyone has to work hard to achieve his or her goals.” Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe praised the Sauti Kuu initiative. “The Siaya government will provide all the support the Sauti Kuu Initiative needs to facilitate its activities including community mobilidation for increased access and utilidation of the programmes,” he said. Okumbe said Siaya will be promoted as a tourism and investment destination. A progress report on plans to build President Barack Obama University College of Agriculture and Technology will be shared. Also read : Would America vote Oprah Winfrey for President? Click here for the latest political news