Owner of the killer Patel Dam yesterday told the Senate he was also a victim of the tragedy that killed 48 people on May 9. Perry Mansukh linked the bursting of the dam to deforestation in neighbouring farms. He did not disclose how he was a victim of the dam-burst which swept away homes. Mansukh narrated to the Senate committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo how the Solai community has been dear to his heart, having been born there. He explained how he has tried to help the victims cope. Mansukh said he has spent Sh35 million in two months in helping victims of the tragedy. He denied the dam was not licensed, saying the Water Resources Management Authority (Warma) approved and issued the permit. “All the dams in Solai farm are duly registered and have the requisite approvals.” Mansukh said the licence was renewed in June 2017 and was to expire in December. He did not produce a copy of the licence to the committee. Warma, appearing separately before the same committee, said the dam(s) were not licensed and their officers were denied access to inspect the facility. But Mansukh said, “We have never objected to give access. It is sad that they said that. It is not true.” Mansukh is facing manslaughter charges in a Naivasha court. Also charged include Nakuru Water director Johnson Kamau, Water Rights Officer Winnie Mutisya, subregional manager Tomkin Odhiambo and Assistant Technical Coordinator Manager Jacinta Were. There was standoff in the committee earlier when Mansukh’s lawyer Evans Monari objected to the Senate’s line of questioning. He said some members incited Solai victims against the dam owner. “If you want to declare us hostile, so be it. This is not the forum for proving liability. The forum for liability is the judiciary,” Monari said. “We have several suits, both civil and criminal, in court and there is a high risk that we shall prejudiced.” Mansukh denied whatever financial assistance he was giving the victims was accompanied by indemnity form clarifying it was out of goodwill. He said an independent committee was formed to identify the victims and recommend the level of help each should be given. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko directed the National Environment Management Authority to revoke an environment restoration order issued to Solai dam owners. Senators investigating dam tragedy said it was unenforceable. Tobiko said a revised order will be issued within seven days after Mutula led fellow senators Sylvia Kasanga and Ladema ole Kina to fault the order as being incomplete. 