President Uhuru Kenyatta's war on corruption is lonely, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has said, noting he need good company for it to be successful. Kibwana wants the church to help the President as its silence and lack of support make the war a "lone ranger mission against a combative network of corrupt individuals and groups who fight back together". The Governor said Uhuru risks isolation so the church and other players should back him. "I am sure the President is very lonely because corruption fights back. He needs company,” Kibwana told Anglican Bishops at the Wholesome Governance Conference at St Paul’s University in Limuru on Tuesday. “The clergy should approach the President and lend him support in the war on corruption. The church can help devise ways of fighting it. The President wants to fight but the war is huge." Read: You'll rot in jail, Uhuru tells corrupt public servants Related: Reject cancer of corruption completely, US tells Kenyans The county boss noted that development becomes difficult to attain when revenue is stolen by "heartless cartels". He further asked the church to look into the "key issues" of negative ethnicity and marginalisation of the youth for the sake of development. “People should know we are all children of God. It doesn’t matter whether one is Kikuyu, Kamba, Luo or Kalenjin. Negative ethnicity is dividing our country. The church should save us,” he said. Kibwana praised the church for mediating when the Makueni executive squabbled with the assembly in 2013. ACK Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit said the church should play an oversight role in the war on corruption. He praised the Governor for being an achiever in the implementation of devolution and ensuring "good manners" in the management of resources in his county. “Many people have praised you for standing against blackmail, defending devolution in your last term and the kind of development you are bringing,” Ole Sapit said. “It is important that devolution is safeguarded and cascaded to villages, if not houses, without wastage of scarce resources." Read: Kibwana puts corrupt Makueni contractors, workers on notice Also read: Dirty politics breeds corruption, scares away Christians - 'pastor' Kivutha Kibwana Click here for the latest political news