An emergency unit will be established at Sultan Hamud to hasten response to victims of accidents along the Mombasa-Nairobi highway, Makueni county commissioner Mohammed Maalim has said. The unit to be put up at Sultan Hamud police station will be established jointly by the government in collaboration with the Red Cross and Makueni county government. Maalim yesterday said they identified the station to host the unit because it was the most strategic on the stretch from Malili to Mtito Andei, which is prone to accidents. On Wednesday last week, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i visited the area following an accident in which nine people were killed after a bus and a lorry burst into flames after a head-on collision. Twenty other people sustained serious injuries. Matiang’i asked Maalim to identify a place for the establishment of the emergency response unit. “We decided to elevate one police station along the highway to an emergency response unit after a meeting with security chiefs at the county headquarters,” Maalim said during an interview in his office in Wote town. “I informed the CS about inadequate equipment, including ambulances, that are required for timely responses.” The highway stretch in Makueni has become notorious for fatal accidents. In February, three people died after two lorries collided head on and went up in flames near Sultan Hamud. Rescue efforts for last week’s accident were hampered by lack of fire engines. The county has only two fire engines stationed at the headquarters in Wote. Residents living along the highway have asked for the transfer of the engines closer to the road to help during emergencies. “I watched helplessly as people trapped inside the vehicles burnt. That would not have happened if we had fire engines nearby,” Geoffrey Kyalo told the Star. He said firefighters often arrived at accident scenes when it is too late. Fire department chief officer Mary Mbenge said a lot of time is wasted during coordination because there is no fire station in the county. She urged the government to establish two fire stations along the highway.