Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria was given a heroic welcome in Kisumu when he made a stop at the lakeside town on Saturday morning. He termed the people of Kisumu as very friendly stating that "the city is also very wonderful". Kuria said he had visited ODM party leader Raila Odinga who last Sunday sent him to take the message peace and reconciliation in the area. Also see: Raila meets Moses Kuria at his Capitol Hill office Related: Moses Kuria pledges to 'devolve' Uhuru-Raila handshake The leader hit out at Jubilee MPs who have criticised the famous handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. "The handshake is something to be proud of and we should all support it," Kuria said, "That I'm here in Kisumu is a manifestation that the handshake is real." "I think only a stupid man can criticise a handshake, because it is not about politics," he added. He said the leaders should embrace it and build bridges of understanding between all communities. "Mambo ya uchaguzi itakuja baadaye lakini kwa wakati huu tukae kama ndugu na tufanye maandeleo," he said. (Elections will come later...at the moment, let us live as brothers and focus on development) Kuria extended an invite to residents to also visit Central Kenya further urging leaders from Nyanza to also visit the region and preach peace and unity.  Moses Kuria gets a shoeshine during a stopover in Kisumu on Saturday, July 21, 2018. /MAURICE ALAL He said the unity pact between Uhuru and Raila is unstoppable. The legislator said it was not the first time he had associated with the locals as he had hosted K’Ogalo in Gatundu. "I will do it again," he said. "I am going to come back with my team from Gatundu so that they play with Gor Marhia after the season ends," he said. The Central leader said he had lost a lot of good opportunities to visit and mingle with the people of Kisumu. Kuria is expected to visit Nyakach for a  church fundraising and attending the homecoming of ICT PS Jerome Ochieng. Ochieng was among PS named in changes announced by the president this month. Also read: Raila's campaign team members land Uhuru's appointment "I took time to visit this wonderful city of Kisumu with very friendly people. I am very happy and pleased to be in Kisumu." Kuria was a fierce critic of the Raila Odinga, who is seen as a kingpin in Nyanza, ahead of the elections and many other times before. Back in 2016, the leader had alluded to assassinate the ODM leader claiming he was a threat to the nation. They reconciled their differences over a plate of fish at Ranalo restaurant, Nairobi. Read: Raila meets Moses Kuria, hate MPs for lunch after assassination claims Click here for the latest political news 