With none of their supposed rivals in action in the league this weekend, league leaders Gor Mahia, have the opportunity to pull further away from the chasing pack when they pay a visit to arch-rivals AFC Leopards in the Nairobi derby at Moi Stadium, Kasarani tomorrow. K’Ogalo have maintained a nine-point gap at the top of the Sportpesa Premier League standings without kicking a ball in the league this month and victory over Leopards will inch them even closer to retaining their title. With four games in hand over their closest challengers, Sofapaka, Dylan Kerr knows it’s just a matter of time before they put the championship away. Kerr, despite seeing his side dismantle Tanzanian giants Yanga 4-0 in the CAF Confederation Cup in midweek, was under no illusion about the challenge that Ingwe will present. “The players are aware how important the derby is to the team and to the fans as well and they have to give it their all. Our opponents also know there are bragging rights in this one and I believe they are also looking to upset us. We will approach the match with the seriousness it deserves,” Kerr said. Leopards will be without several key players, notably skipper Duncan Otieno and defender Robinson Kamura, but coach Rodolfo Zapata says this does not worry him heading into the derby. “We are very ready. A derby is won through team effort and I’m always positive. I respect Gor Mahia, but we have a rich history and they need to respect us too. I also strongly believe in my players. The difference between average and superior performance in any club always comes back to the quality of the players hired. The chairman has brought several young players and the target is to dominate the league in the near future,” said Zapata. “All of them (new signings) are potentially good players. They, however, need time to adapt in a big team like AFC Leopards. For this reason, we must be patient in the development process. I need to work progressively and try not to confuse our youngsters,” he added on the league’s official portal.