Gospel singer Peterson Githinji, popularly known by the stage name Pitson, has praised new sensation Gracious Amani’s ability to master songs. Recently, the Lingala Ya Yesu hitmaker wrote Sitasahau for Gracious, who released her first song after making headlines with her rendition of Alicia Keys’ Girl on fire. Speaking to Word Is, Pitson said working with Gracious is one of the best things that has happened to him, and he hopes to work with her more and even do a collabo together. “That girl is awesome and talented, and I know she is going far. I wrote that song and she only took two days to master it. I am going to write more songs for her then later, I will do a collaboration with her. I do not want her to join this current culture of doing music without content,” he said. Pitson’s message to young talents is to change the gospel industry and the name of Kenya. “We can only change upcoming artistes but not the ones who are already in music. Let them not take the kind of music that is cheap, average and without content but choose the good content so we can change the name and even give Kenyan gospel music a good name. Watu waache kufikiria Kenya ni ya jokers,” he said. “To the parents, let us not hinder our children’s talents by pushing them to white-collar jobs, but give them equal chances to know and identify their talents.” The talented singer, who ditched his well-paying bank job, encouraged people to follow their passion in life and what makes them happy. “It is not that we singers lack jobs. No, we chose music because we found it enough for us and I am able to take care of my family. The thing about doing what you like is the happiness of life.” Pitson is focusing more on writing songs than singing. “I think there is a problem in the industry and our fans need to get good music. Like they say, ‘If you want to get money, then apply something that people are in need of’, and just like Jalas recently said, there is no content in our Kenyan gospel industry.” Pitson said the media lacks moral authority to judge gospel music, though. “Media should not criticise the content because wao ndio wanaicheza. Content iko but the only problem is that bad things always outdo the good ones,” he said. “Artistes should try and create more time with God and even study His word, and from that, they will get good content.”