Consequently countries that depend on loans from
Chinese authorities are ill advised, as it is likely to be a device to trap the
borrower. Some Hong Kong-based scholars were critical of another aspect: The
integrity of Mainland China. It had reneged on the 1984 agreement between China
and Britain guaranteeing Hong Kong’s autonomy as the condition for the transfer
of sovereignty over Hong Kong back to China. Last year,
when I was in Sri Lanka, I was told that country had made a serious error by moving
its primary relations from India to China, for Chinese will exact a heavy price
for its “grants or assistance”.  I began
to worry about the price we in Kenya will have to pay for huge loans and other
“assistance” that our government had obtained from China — not least that has
gone into the SGR, which the government never tires of advertising in the media
as a great success. The Chinese government has also started making public
declarations that it is “not increasing the public debt burden of African
countries”.  SRI LANKAN EXPERIENCE On the way back from Hong Kong, my anxieties
about our government’s flirtation with China (to the extent of sending its
officers to train in China on how to run government — about the time that
country’s rubber stamp parliament amended its constitution to declared its
president as leader for life!) increased. I read on the front page of New York Times the headline, “Paying
China with territory: Deeply in hock to Beijing, Sri Lanka gave its ally a
strategic port for 99 years” — elaborated over three pages. The gist of the article is China’s ambitious use
of loans and aid to gain influence around the world — and to be tough when it
comes to the recovery of the debt. It assisted the party in power in Sri Lanka to
win the elections, and then started to tighten the screws to achieve its
control over government policies. Sri Lanka has to pay on a yearly basis to
China over 90 per cent of its revenue. In Kenya, loans are used by China, as is
the case in Sri Lanka, to achieve political influence over the government — and
an active role in elections. In Kenya China may not have become as closely
attached as in Sri Lanka, where vast sums of money were granted to the
government to fight elections, but many Kenyans believe China played a not
insignificant role here. China had established a special relationship
with the Sri Lanka president, which enables it to use the port for strategic
purposes, particularly targeting India — no doubt putting Sri Lanka in a
difficult relationship with its long term ally and close neighbour.  Kenya may not be as critical to China as South
Asia, but the US and Europe think Kenya is of strategic value — and that is
enough for China to want to build a considerable degree of control over our
government. When a newly elected Sri Lankan government
wanted to establish its independent local and overseas policies, it found
itself restrained by the huge loans given and no doubt controlled by China.  An official economist said it was impossible
to get out of the net of Chinese control in which the new government found
itself. “We inherited purportedly run-down economy — the
revenues were insufficient to pay the interest charges, let alone capital
repayment…We did keep taking loans. It is a relay: you need to take them until
economic discipline is introduced” (My reaction on
reading this bit is the same as what I am sure every Kenyan would have: “So
that is what explains our last budget: A bundle of lies and deception, and a
huge burden of taxes on Kenyans, including through taxes on basic
necessities, especially  food — so much for Henry Rotich, a dear friend of
the President”).  SGR: A CHINESE PROJECT? China has played a key role in the building and
now the running of the SGR — a project dear to our President, though, to be
fair to him and the Chinese it was invented before them. It has always been a
controversial project, especially as the old line merely needed some repairs to
be perfectly usable — saving us billions of shillings, as the estimates came
close to three times the international standard and four times the original
estimate. Professional studies showed the benefits to accrue from this project
would be minimal. The loan from China came to about 80 per cent of the total
money — and has greatly exposed Kenya to pressure of various kinds from it. Another matter of considerable concern has been
the routing of the rail line through the Nairobi National Park — the pride of
the town and a source of considerable revenue for the country. Vigorous and
repeated attempts by experts and the general public achieved little.  It seemed Nema ignored all objections from
conservationists and other experts, as well as members of Maasai community — as
the government ignored the protests of the people. The veteran defender of the
Constitution, Okiya Omtatah argued the construction through the park would expose its fragile ecosystem to continuous and irreversible
damage and degradation. The courts did provide some assistance but it seems
that the government ignored their orders restricting development through the park.
It seems the constitutional rights of the people were effectively ignored — and
the construction has begun. Another problem has
disturbed the public — the suspicion the sale of lands necessary for the rail
was engineered to allow the friends of the government to make huge profits, in
the Kenya style. Lands were bought cheaply from their original owners, unaware
of its sales value — which were reaped by cartels. There is the feeling the
availability of Chinese money and labour has enabled the government to proceed
with a dubious scheme. The government claims the SGR has already made many
gains; the evidence is that operates increasingly with state protected
monopolies upsetting the rights of other agencies.  Meanwhile its debts to China keep increasing.
Should we worry about it?  CHINESE RESPONSIBILITY? Of late, there has
been discussion about the vigorous policies of China in most parts of the world
— including Africa, where it has found greater reception than most other
places.  Various explanations are
provided for its global engagements as the second most powerful state in the
world, developing its economy; increasing its influence. As far as Africa is
concerned, it is particularly concerned about its dominance and, minimising the
influence of the West. Its reception by African states may be explained in
different ways: Africa wanting to ease off Western influence, which has weighed
on it for years, finding China an easy lender of money and technology, and
perhaps feeling at ease with another authoritarian regime, and a lifelong
president! There is no doubt China is determined to be the leading world power,
in which case its interest in African could decline — though its economic
interest may continue. It is important for our government to fashion its
Chinese policy with care, so that we do not become completely dependent on it —
another imperial power?  DOES CONSTITUTION HAS ANYTHING TO
SAY? Article 201 sets out some principles about public finance, several of which seem to have been
violated by this saga. The first is the requirement of openness and
accountability. Another principle is sustainable development: “The burdens and
benefits of the use of resources and public borrowing shall be shared equitably
between present and future generations”. Neither present nor future generations
have had much input into this huge commitment. Finally, “Public money shall be
used in a prudent and responsible way”. If we turn to quite a different Article
(131(2)) we find “The President shall…safeguard the sovereignty of the
Republic”. Is exposing our territory and assets to foreign seizure compatible
with this?  The author, a director of  Katiba Institute, is grateful to Jill
Cottrell Ghai for her assistance in writing this article