National Land Commission chairman Muhammad Swazuri yesterday defended the team over the controversial Sh1.5 billion compensation for the Ruaraka land but avoided answering thorny questions. Flanked by fellow commissioners and senior staff, he read a prepared press statement justifying the payment, but declined to entertain questions from journalists. Swazuri did not answer why he ignored a court order blocking the payment and why the cash was remitted in haste. He left the press conference in a huff. Swazuri accused the media of thriving on hearsay to malign and intimidate him and the commission. “It started as a scandal according to you, downgraded to a saga, now it is a puzzle. You don’t want to get facts and you are relying on hearsay from your own sources. What we are saying today you won’t publish if your intention is to taint me. In the process, you’re making me famous and a celebrity, which I thank you for,” Swazuri said sarcastically. “We’re not cowards. We’re here to stay. You guys work on assumptions that a wrong perpetuated a hundred times in the press becomes a right, and say it more in the public so that it flies over the law.” In his statement, the chairman maintained the 96 acres are private land and had been illegally occupied by the schools, despite protests from the owner for more than 30 years. “Let those peddling lies provide counter documents. We acted within the law and are confident that justice has been done,” Swazuri said, occasionally pausing to stress a point off the prepared script. He said Afrison Export Import Limited, the registered owner of the land, sought the NLC’s intervention in July 2015. Read:Swazuri: I didn’t initiate compensation for Ruaraka land “The commission undertook basic investigation into the complaint. It was on this basis that the NLC pursued the matter with attendant institutions, including the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning and the official government adviser — Attorney General — to confirm that the claim and the status of the land, in line with our mandate,” Swazuri said. The Education ministry wrote back on March 17 this year to confirm there were public schools on the private land. Swazuri said the PS had formally written to the NLC requesting for guidance on the formal process to “secure public interest by acquiring the land on which the schools stand”. He said the commission corrected the procedural anomaly after the PS wrote to clarify that under Section 107 of the Land Act it was the respective CS to do so. The NLC said the AG wrote an advisory opinion on July 7 last year agreeing with the Education ministry that the private land should be acquired in the public interest. Swazuri said records at the Lands ministry as at March 28, 1984, showed the registered owner was Afrison. “The registered owner had objected to the conditional approval of the subdivision by the Nairobi City Council, thus cancelled the request through a letter dated April 8, 1984. This is one point people are relying on to say it’s public land and that there was surrender — yet there wasn’t. If anyone has that surrender let him bring it to us,” he said. “In case that happened, it’d have ended up registered and a deed of surrender signed, which didn’t happen.” Swazuri explained that the surveyor said to have done the subdivision said there was no surrender and the land had been intact. He however steered clear of the transactions and the charge on the land for loan by the Continental Credit Bank and the Kenya Posts and Telecommunications, or whether the official receiver had discharged the title. In 2012, Justice Mabeya had awarded Afrison Export and Import Ltd more than Sh4.1 billion, which Swazuri said supersedes everything. “Who are these people saying the government is paying for its own land? You mean the court was wrong, Parliament was wrong and hearsay is right?” he asked. Swazuri dismissed claims the acquisition was done without proper budgeting. “No one budgets for compulsory acquisition because they don’t know what will be the value of the land. Once a government body identifies a piece of land, the process starts and this is the time they go to the Treasury to request the money for acquisition,” he said. Read:Ruaraka land owner Francis Mburu records statement at DCI Click here for the latest political news