MPs yesterday questioned Kenya Airports Authority officials over delayed completion of a Sh1.9 billion runway at Kisumu International Airport. The project, which included construction of parallel taxiway, cargo apron and public car park, was awarded to China Overseas Construction Group Ltd in 2012. KAA managing director Jonny Andersen and other top officials were summoned and questioned by MPs on why the three-kilometre runway had delayed. Read: Sh600m expansion for Kisumu airport Andersen told the National Assembly Public Investments Committee that Kenya Airways is demanding expansion to accommodate heavy airplanes with only 300 metres remaining for the project to be complete. “The ongoing discussion we are having with Kenya Airways is how they will contain their operations depending on the aircraft they have,” he said. “They don’t want to go down in size of their aircrafts in the market. We have to consider the commercial interests of the air operators. The authority project manager, Martin Muthui, told the team chaired by Mvita MP Shariff Nassir that all stakeholders, including air operators and the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority, were involved from the onset of the project. “The operators backtracked from their earlier agreement and the project completion is scheduled to take one month,” he said. This is after Nassir asked, “Does it mean KAA engaged into a project without prior consultation with the end users?” Muthui said they will redesign the construction of the remaining 300 metres to fit the demands of Kenya Airways. “We are looking at the matter afresh to find a way on how we will move forward,” he said. “We will have to change the design of the remaining 300 metres in terms of construction process so that we can do it during the night and the runway is available during the day.” Last year, Modern Automatic Weather Observing Systems (AWOS) were installed at three international airports. The Sh200 million systems were installed at Jomo Kenyatta, Kisumu and Eldoret international airports. This was among the 10 international category one standards required to allow for the direct flights from Kenya to USA. Then Environment CS Judi Wakhungu said the installation of AWOS put Kenya at par with other destinations with international airports across the world. She said they were working closely with the Ministry of Transport to ensure the entire requirement needed was met. Wakhungu said the observing system shall carry out meteorological observation, air humidity, dew point temperature, precipitation, solar radiation and thunderstorms. Click here for
the latest political news  