A businessman who shot his wife four years ago after a domestic quarrel has been found guilty of murder by a Nairobi court. Erastus Odhiambo, alias Ediot, was found guilty of the murder of 27-year-old Linda Irungu - his second wife - on December 12, 2014 at Waihura court, Buruburu Phase Five Extensions. In her judgment delivered yesterday, Justice Stella Mutuku ruled the prosecution had proven beyond reasonable doubt that Odhiambo had an element of malice when he committed the offence. The prosecution had accused the businessman of killing his wife in Buruburu by shooting her after they quarreled. However, Irungu’s family had said the two were not a couple but just friends, though the court noted they did not dispute the two had a child together. Odhiambo told the court he had known Irungu for three years and she was his second wife. He said he also stayed with his first wife in a different section of the Buruburu estate. Odhiambo said on the day, he proceeded to a club in Parklands at 8pm to wait for Irungu - a lawyer. He said he was in constant communication with her for the most past of the day but she did not join him at the club, saying she was tired and was going home to rest. Read:Beauty queen savoured killing, deserves death, says judge According to Diana, the deceased’s sister, the accused was angry when he learnt Irungu had gone out when she heard her sister talking to him on the phone in the early hours of Jamuhuri Day. Diana further testified that she advised her sister to go to their parents’ home to avoid her husband, and she hurriedly changed into pajamas but on her way out of the estate she met her husband who then killed her after a scuffle. The judge noted that Odhiambo was not a happy man and it is the natural reaction of a human being after what happened that night, because he expected to be joined by his wife but she never showed up. “The deceased had told him that she was tired and would go home to rest and she was not at home resting and was not reachable on phone,” the judge noted. According to the judge, Odhiambo then cut short his night with his friends and decided to go home to look for his wife and he was agitated. In her view, his agitation could be discerned from the several times he went to Waihuru court to look for Irungu in the course of the night. When the accused finally spotted her inside her car preparing to leave Waihura, he jumped in front of her car and blocked it. A fight ensued that led to the shooting. Odhiambo will be sentenced next Tuesday. Also See:Who will hang prison beauty queen Ruth Kamande? Click here for the latest political news