A well known Bungoma butcher was shot dead while heading home with his son on a boda boda on Tuesday night. Victim Patrick Nguti ran the business at Kamukuywa market in Kimilili Constituency but lived in Mucharage area, Trans Nzoia. Reports indicated that a gang attacked at about 9.45 pm, killed Nguti and injured his son and the rider. The businessman's killer shot him in the stomach using an AK 47 rifle before he and his five accomplices fled on motorcycles. Related: Thugs butcher watchman, 60, steal sodas from Bungoma shop Nguti's son was shot twice in the leg and the rider in the hand. They made it to the home of Mucharage village elder John Kichuki covered in blood and were taken to a private hospital in Kitale town. "I raised the alarm and alerted Mucharage police officers who quickly went to the scene. They found mzee Nguti dead with all of his clothes off," he said on Wednesday morning. The elder said the gang took valuables including cash and a phone. Kichuki asked police to beef up security in the area, saying many crimes had taken place. Former Kamukuywa MCA Moses Opicho claimed the killing was planned by well known people. "We want the DCC and officers to conduct a thorough probe ... people who have guns are known," he said. " Some thugs have spies and agents who could be listening to us right now. They have been giving businessmen and residents sleepless nights." Opicho said suspects arrested over past crimes are freed so they continue carrying out attacks.  Former Kamukuywa MCA Moses Opicho addresses residents following the murder of butcher Patrick Nguti, July 11, 2018. /BRIAN OJAMAA Kimilili DCC Reuben Loyotoman said residents of housing criminals out of fear. "Please feel free to share information that could lead to the arrests of these thugs. They have one gun - an AK 47 - which they use for criminal activities," he said. "The same gun was use to kill people in Sirisia last week. This gun will finish us all. If you are afraid, write a note and drop it at my office." He said the thugs operate in Bungoma and Trans Nzoia counties. Last month, residents of Kimilili asked a parliamentary committee on security that toured the area to give police sniffer dogs amid efforts to beef up security. Details: Give police sniffer dogs to curb crime, Bungoma residents tell government Also read: Two suspected thugs arrested in Bungoma, AK 47 rifle found Click here for the latest political news