Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui on Friday criticised the Senate committee report on Solai dam for "focusing on finger-pointing instead of finding solutions". Kinyanjui said the team's report "passes as one classic example of a wasted opportunity to unlock a very serious tragedy". He added that the cteam was unwilling to listen to him and that it did not address the psychological trauma of survivors. “Going by our experience at the Senate probe, where there was little time to listen to those invited to shed light on the matter, one is tempted to conclude that the committee had a set mind from the onset." On July 18, the committee objected Kinyanjui's plans to present a report on the tragedy that was prepared by other agencies. The team accused him of attempting to protect the dam owners. "Forty eight people died in your county. Out of curiosity, we would like to have your own report on the events running to the tragedy," Senator Sylvia Kasanga said. "So, you cannot come here and give us reports of other agencies and say ‘I have no responsibilities’. You have responsibilities," added co-chair Ledama ole Kina. Details: Fireworks as Lee Kinyanjui, Senators face off in Solai Dam probe Related: State officials protecting Solai Dam owners, Senate committee alleges Mansukh and eight others were charged with 48 counts of manslaughter and freed on bond. The other suspects are Vinoj Kumar, Johnson Njuguna, Williec Omondi, Lynette Cheruiyot, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odhiambo and Luka Kipyegen. Kumar is the Patel Farm manager while Njuguna is the director of water in Nakuru. The ad-hoc committee that probed the tragedy recommended the prosecution of Water CS Simon Chelugui and dam owner Perry Mansukh for the deaths of 48 people on May 9. It also wants Nakuru county commissioner Joshua Nkanatha, deputy county commissioner Justus Kavita and Solai chief Charles Kiragu probed for negligence. The committee chaired by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr further wants the DPP and DCI to probe WRA executive director Mohamed Shurie for conspiracy to mislead the public, authorities and the committee. Mansukh said he is also a victim. Read: I'm also a victim, Solai dam owner tells Senate More on this: Committee wants top government officials prosecuted for Solai dam tragedy Click here for the latest political stories         