Sneha Kotecha eased into the semi finals of the ongoing International Tennis Federation (ITF) Nairobi Junior Open tournament after edging out Hoziane Kitambala of Burundi 6-3, 6-2 at Nairobi Club.
Sneha dispatched the Burundian to set a semi-final date with Yu Hua Cheng of Chinese Taipei with the latter having eliminated Arwa Boussayri of Morocco 6-2, 6-0.
The exposure and experience Kitambala has had at the ITF Centre located at Masaba Road, Nairobi counted for nothing as she struggled to shake off Sneha’s tennis prowess in either sets while scattering returns which dimmed her dream of joining compatriot Aisha Niyonkuru in semis.
Sneha grabbed an early three-game lead in the opening set from her two serves and broke her opponent once but could not maintain the tempo in the subsequent two games which went in favour of the Burundian.  Enjoying a game lead, she staged a fierce fight and collected two more games for a 5-2 lead which erased tension on her side.
However, Kitambala pulled one back but proved too late as Sneha made amends to have the first set registered against her name. The home girl served her opponent with a more ruthless approach in the second set, dropping a paltry two games to sail to the semis.
She attributed the win to her serves which proved too much for her opponent. “She played well in either sets but I think my serves won it for me. I was aggressive and determined to reach semis although I have to admit I was a bit nervous in the first set. I am happy my fitness is good after spending almost a month without playing due to exams. I am aware I will be meeting a tough player in the semis and I have to approach the match with confidence and combine both skill and power,” said Sneha.
She added “Being the only Kenyan remaining in the singles I am not under pressure to win.I just want to focus on the basics and play to my capabilities.”
The other semi will pit Niyonkuru against Yu-Yun Li of Chinese Taipei. Niyonkuru beat Vukica Milojevic of New Zealand 7-5, 6-4 while Yun Li smacked Norhan Hesham of Egypt 7-6 (5), 6-4.
As Sneha made it to the last four in the junior event, her elder brother Sheil was expected to make his debut in the lucrative Wimbledon qualifying draw for the U-18 in United Kingdom yesterday. Sheil, who is Kenya’s top seeded player in the junior ranks and second overall after Ismael Changawa, was set to play Lorenzo Lavallen of Argentina who is placed 57th globally. Sheil becomes the fourth Kenyan player to make it to Wimbledon after Paul Wekesa, Changawa and Christian Vitulli.