Drinking a cup of tea in the afternoon is a common ritual. But serving a fashionable high tea requires a special talent, and Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel pulls it off beautifully. The K Lounge on the ground floor of hotel is the perfect setting for afternoon tea, with its classic high-back armchairs, marble tile floors, and a water fountain feature that create a sense of stylish formality. A smiling waitress presented the menu, which has a selection of teas made by German tea distributor Ronnefeldt. The flavours are English breakfast, Vanilla Rooibos, Green Leaf, Fruity Chamomile and Earl Grey, the one that I chose. You can get as many refills of hot, fresh tea as you wish, and if you prefer, they can serve tea masala or a coffee instead. Besides the high quality tea brands, the attention to detail is remarkable. The table is laid with a white linen place mats. The tea is served in gold-edged cups and plates specially imported from Germany, where Kempinski Hotels have their headquarters. Along with the tea comes a variety of sweet and savoury snacks. They are uniquely presented, what looks like a small, black chest of drawers with gold knobs. In the box are dainty mini sandwiches, which are filled with cucumber and egg, salmon, caviar and sliced beef. There was a creamy vanilla panna cotta topped with a fruit compote next to slices of spongy red velvet cake. One of the drawers had strawberry Macarons with cream fillings. Another drawer had Opera Cake, a rich layered cake of coffee, almond and chocolate flavours. On the afternoon tea scones you can spread either marmalade, strawberry jam or soft whipped cream. The final touch was Peach Melba ice cream with chopped mango, presented in a gold dish with matching teaspoon. It surprising how well you fill up on a plate of elegant snacks and endless cups of tea. Soft lobby music was playing the whole time, creating an unhurried atmosphere and allowing us to chat rather than shout at each other. Reservations for the daily afternoon tea is recommended, as it has become quite popular.  Location: Kempinski Villa Rosa Hotel, Chiromo Road, Nairobi Contacts: 0703 049000  Star Rating: 5/5