Kenya’s Big Four development agenda has been praised at the HIV-Aids conference in Amsterdam. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta yesterday led a delegation to the opening sessions of the International Aids Conference in the Dutch capital. Speakers at one of the plenaries said the agenda driven by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration puts health at the centre of Kenya’s social development by investing in human capital. UNAIDS regional director for West and Central Africa Patrick Brenny said the pillar on universal health coverage can return huge health dividends because it ensures nobody is left behind. He said the UNAIDS will support Kenya and other Sub-Saharan countries to achieve their UHC goals. Enhanced manufacturing to create jobs, provision of affordable housing and enhanced food security and nutrition are the other pillars of the Big 4 Agenda. Ending the Aids epidemic and achieving the UHC by 2030 in Africa formed the topic of discussion where top health officials from Kenya, Ghana, Rwanda and Nigeria comprised a group of panelists at one of the meetings. Read:EU endorses Uhuru's Big 4 Agenda as it marks Europe Day Participants included the First Lady, Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman, National AIDS Control Council CEO Nduku Kilonzo and NACC board chairperson Angeline Siparo. Three Kenyan MPs also attended the session. Aman highlighted the key achievements made in the war on HIV-Aids in Kenya. He said the country can use expertise and infrastructure developed over the years and lessons learnt in response to the pandemic to accelerate attainment of the UHC. The milestones include reforms at the National Health Insurance Fund to provide expanded health protection to a large number of Kenyans and upgrading of key health facilities. “For us to achieve our UHC goals, HIV services, including testing, ARVs and condoms must all be part of the health benefits package covered under insurance,” Aman said. Also Read:Raising tax will scare investors and hurt Big 4 agenda – experts Click here for the latest political news