NARC-K party leader Martha Karua has filed an appeal at the Nyeri court of appeal challenging high court’s decision to dismiss her petition against the election of Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. The court on June 14 upheld the election of Waiguru as governor. Karua and her running mate Joseph Gitari in the Memorandum of appeal expressed dissatisfaction with the judgment by high court judge Lucy Gitari delivered on the 14 of June this year. She said the judge failed to adhere to the principles of a fair hearing as more particularly guaranteed by Article 50 of the constitution. "She exercised her judicial authority in total disregard of Article 159 of the constitution,” said Karua. Read: Karua loses bid to dethrone Waiguru, slapped with Sh5m cost Karua who addressed the media at the law courts soon after filing the appeal said she will not tire seeking justice. “Like what I said when my case was dismissed in Keruguya I will not tire seeking justice. So am here in the courts seeking justice and we are waiting to be given the date,” she said. “The grounds of appeal are many. They are 31 in number. We are complaining about all the things we think went wrong in the Kerugoya court from the disappearance of our electronic evidence to court concluding that it was not filed,” she said. She said all the issues that they had complained on in the petition that the judge dismissed to the issue of bribery were in the appeal. Karua complained that they had enough evidence but the court thought otherwise. “We are here so that this higher court, the court of appeal, may look at the record and will be able to see all that went on in the high court at Keruguya. It will hear our argument, hear the opposing argument and then come into a determination,” she said. “Which either we will be satisfied or not. Our legal system provides for a system of appeal in matters of law up to the supreme court,” she said. Karua names the IEBC as the first respondent, Seki Lempaka as the second while Governor Ann Waiguru and Peter Ndambiri are the third and fourth respondents respectively. Read: Martha Karua petition against Waiguru to be heard afresh Click here for the latest political news 