Coffee farmers across the country will benefit from a government subsidy program aimed at reducing the cost of farm inputs, DP William Ruto has said. He said the government has budgeted Sh1.5 billion for the subsidy which will enable the farmers to buy fertilizers at lower prices as part of the efforts to transforming the sector. “Our politics should now be on the development agenda. It was just last year that we participated in gruesome period of elections for a year and it’s now time to implement what we promised the people,” Ruto said. Read: Ruto promises fence along Meru National Park, markets for green grams The DP spoke on Sunday at St Thomas Moore Kairuri Catholic Church and Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK), Kianjokoma Parish, in Embu County. Ruto, who was accompanied by his wife Rachel, urged leaders to ignore individuals who were engaging on divisive politics and instead concentrate on the implementation of the Government’s Big Four agenda. Leaders present included Health CS Sicily Kariuki, Governor Martin Wambora and Senate deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki. Others are MPs Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), Gitonga Murugara (Tharaka), Patrick Munene (Chuka Igamba’ngombe), Geoffrey King’ang’i (Mbeere South) and Peter Muriuki (Mbeere North). Embu Woman Representative Jane Wanjiku and Runyenjes MP Joseph Muchiri were also present. Governor Wambora said Ruto was the most accessible leader who was always committed to solving the problems facing Kenyans. He said Embu County has managed to carry out 50 brain surgeries successfully because of support from the national government in terms of equipment. “We will continue to work with the national government in implementing the Big Four agenda in our area. The unity between President Kenyatta and his deputy has been in existence for more than six years and that unity can’t be destroyed by anybody,” Wambora said. CS Kariuki said her ministry would do its best to ensure that access to healthcare, which is part of the Government’s Big Four agenda, is successfully executed. More: Plant new varieties, Othaya coffee farmers told as production declines by 1.4 million kgs Click here for the latest political news