The Basic Education Act came into force in 2013 and on April 8, 2015 the regulations were gazetted to make them operational through Legal Notice No 39. The following are areas however that the Education ministry has not fully enforced for the benefit of learners and their parents. Transition: In Part IV Section 35 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) the Act states that learners should be assisted by all to complete basic education, and specifically that no learner shall be held back in any class. Unfortunately there is no penalty spelt out for anyone who contravenes these provisions. The ministry should introduce a sub-section to state the penalty for anyone who contravenes subsection one or two of, say, Sh100,000 or six-month imprisonment, or both. The reality on the ground is that many schools illegally set a cut-off mark in an internal examination and those who do not meet it will be barred from advancing to the next class. In the case of candidates, they are barred from registering for the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education or Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams in the same school. This has only succeeded in impeding learning. Expulsion: Section 35 ( 3 ) states that only the Education Cabinet Secretary will make regulations for exclusion from school. Legal Notice No 39 of April 8, 2015 gives specific regulation to make this section of the Act operational. However, since the county Education boards have not been active, perhaps due to poor funding, principals/head teachers have been having a field day, unilaterally expelling learners without reference to the respective CEBs. The ministry should ensure that the boards are active and schools’ boards of management asked to keenly observe the regulation on the expulsion of learners. Corporal punishment: Part IV Section 36 ( 1 ) outlaws torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, in any manner, whether physical or psychological. But in most schools students are caned, sometimes with parental approval. Parents/learners who know that caning is illegal are forced to endure this torture for fear of expulsion. The ministry should devise ways of ending this inhuman way of instilling discipline through seminars on alternative ways of disciplining learners and constant interaction with schools’ BOMs. Section 36 ( 2 ) spells out a fine or imprisonment for anyone who canes learners. Bedtime in boarding schools: The regulations state that bedtime should be from 9.30pm to 6am. The reality is that many schools do not observe this as many require their learners to be awake by as early as 4.30am for preps, which begin from 5am. I believe the regulations were written to ensure that the learners get sufficient sleep. The ministry should use its staff to enforce this regulation. The CEBs could be asked to monitor schools to ensure they enforce the set times. Reporting time for day schools: The legal notice states that no day institution shall require learners to report to school earlier than 7.15am. But many a parent would confirm that their children are required to report to school much earlier, some even at 6am. The ministry should monitor the reporting time to ensure learners are not forced to travel to school in darkness. Sending learners home unaccompanied: The regulation states that no boarding school shall send away unaccompanied a learner later that 9am. But I’m sure many parents will agree with me that this regulation is hardly enforced.