It essentially holds that, if someone sues you for harm
they claim you’ve caused them, you can raise a defense and argue the person
suing you is not entitled to a judgement in their favour because they have
acted unethically, or in bad faith in connection with what they’re suing you
for. It seems to this writer, and many would agree, that the
Chinese have this “clean hands” doctrine, as their perfect defense in
connection with allegations they’re running SGR in a manner afoul of many local
and international laws to the detriment and suffering of Kenyans, especially
those working there. More specifically, an investigation by the Standard
alleged on Sunday the Chinese are subjecting Kenyans who work for the SGR to pay
disparities on the basis of race, unfair treatment, long working hours,
threats, and harassment. The investigation also revealed, among other things, that
Chinese staff can never sit on the same table with Kenyans and locals are not
expected to join their tables either. All this sounds horrendous on first blush but ask any
Kenyan from outside Mt Kenya region and some parts of the Rift Valley, and this
is precisely what they would say they’re being treated as —less worthy. If you don’t hail from those two regions, forget about
ever getting a plum job in government. That was during the Mzee Jomo Kenyatta
era and, more so, during the Daniel Moi era. And even now, if you don’t hail from these two regions,
forget about getting even a janitor position, let alone some menial or clerical
job. If you do get one, then be thankful but a probe would reveal you got the
job or position because you know people. The Chinese running the SGR have been accused of treating
Kenyan workers as second-class citizens, who should be thankful for the bones
thrown their way. Hearing about these allegations, the government’s initial
reaction through spokesman Eric Kiraithe was that the workers were to blame for
not appreciating the bone the Chinese have thrown at them, while feasting on
the prime ribs and other meaty stuff. This was blaughable and unbelievable and someone realized
as much because Labour CS Ukur Yattani was dispatched to announce the government has formed a team to
investigate the allegations within seven days and submit a report.
The CS said if the investigation reveals violations of any laws, “appropriate
corrective action, including prosecution, will be taken against those found
culpable." Three things can be observed and predicted, at least going
by our history: First, like many other previous “reports”, this will
simply be shelved and continue collecting dust in perpetuity. Second, if there’s any prosecution, the files will be
“lost” so many times, or some other shenanigan will occur to prevent the case
or cases ever seeing the light of day. Third, if one assumes DPP independence for a moment and
further assumes a dogged determination to truly prosecute the culpable, then
the first and effective defense such a defendant or defendants would raise in
court is, “Remove first the log in your eye before complaining about the speck
in mine”.  In other words, they will
effectively invoke the clean hands doctrine defense and there’s a tone of
evidence they can point to. Moral of the story: Treating other Kenyans as second-class
citizens is immoral, besides being unlawful. 
So, let Jubilee lead by example by reexamining its practices to ensure its
hiring policies and practices are consistent with, and reflect the diversity
required under the law — not merely catering to tribalism, cronyism and
nepotism.   Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States     