Its Thursday, June 28, and the Nairobi county Chief of Staff office looks like a lecture hall full of university students busy revising for an exam. As I walk in to meet the “supervisor” of this group for an interview, I wonder loudly what is happening here as we move to a corner in the same room. “Ni vijana,” he says. “What about them?”I inquire. "We are compiling the lists for payment of of 1,000 casuals employed in the subcounties to clean the city under the revamped Ngarisha Jiji initiative. I ask if the youths are not from the disbanded Sonko Rescue Team, but the supervisor says that team no longer exist as “we did away with it since they had the election mentality of handouts”. I was later informed the Chief of Staff, Kamau Mugo, had left the office for the interns as he looked for an alternative room. Unlike his office that has sound proof walls, carpet, leather sofas and an executive chair and table, coffee machine and dispenser, Mugo moved to the next office that is 'plain'. After minutes of waiting, Ngarisha Jiji project director Joab Ogolla walks in for the interview. "The Nairobi county governor is in the forefront to beautify the city for it to regain its lost glory," says Ogolla. He says more than 1,000 youths have been employed in all subcounties and are paid Sh1,000 daily, translating to Sh1 million a day. They are meant to clear estates by unblocking sewers, clearing mounds of garbage and ensuring responsible garbage disposal. Ogolla said through the youths, garbage collection in Nairobi has improved from 1,500 to 1,800 tones every day. “The subcounties have employed permanent casuals and there is a great improvement. The governor will hire 4,000 youths in an effort to create employment,” he said. The youths have cleared all garbage accumulated during the previous county administration and are now dealing with new garbage, which he termed manageable. Ogolla added that the county has the capacity to clean the city as it has more than 124 garbage trucks working. Since the inception of the initiative, Mombasa and Jogoo roads have been beautified at a cost of Sh13 million. Along Jogoo Road between Dohnholm and Uchumi, the county has planted trees, flowers and grass worth Sh5 million. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority is beautifying the Outering Ring Road. Beautification of Mombasa Road has so far cost Sh8 million. Other roads that have been beautified include Lusaka and Ngong. Operation Ngarisha Jiji is three months old. “We are glad that the initiative has seen garbage collected in various parts of the city and so far only small fresh garbage heaps can be spotted. Where we do away with the old garbage we make sure we plant flowers to avoid re-dumping,” Ogolla said. He lauded the ban on plastic bags, though he cited challenges with flying garbage as it cannot be contained. Ogolla said the government should look for a lasting solution at the household level since sisal bags are expensive. The initiative is running parallel with Governor Mike Sonko's wife voluntary exercise known as the Operation Ng'arisha Jiji. Ogolla said Primrose's initiative is for women empowerment funded by her savings. The interns are now paid some amount, unlike previously. Each leaves with Sh692 daily.   