Kenya is a global sporting powerhouse with credentials in athletics, volleyball and rugby. On the domestic front, football is the most widespread sporting activity. The exploits of local teams such as Gor Mahia, who have won regional accolades and made history by playing against top European league teams, go to show football can be made into a great sport. Kenya is home to top footballers who ply their trade in the biggest leagues around the world,with some of the big names including McDonald Mariga, Dennis Oliech, Victor Wanyama and even Divock Origi. As a nation, we clearly have no shortage of sports talent; our failure is in the corrupt manner we manage our sports. Poor sports management is so prevalent, with virtually every sport being tainted by instances of corruption. Recent events point to just how corruption has afflicted the sector like a hydra. The Malkia Strikers, who have conquered the volleyball world, have been in the news for all the wrong reasons, including being left stranded and unable to travel for lack of allowances, and having their stipend gobbled up by sports officials. In their Olympic outing in Rio de Janeiro, the Kenyan athletics team was subjected to poor living conditions and had their kits stolen by athletics managers. Most recently, Shujaa, our valiant Kenya Rugby 7s team, staged a protest in London citing unpaid allowances. Our national football team Harambee Stars have also had their share of mistreatment, including unpaid allowances and dangerous travelling conditions. In some instances some players have had to use their personal resources to meet travel expenses while on national duty. These acts of corruption dampen morale and destroy talents. They are the major reason why Kenya has never achieved its full sporting potential, including qualifying for the World Cup. Kenya is at an historic moment where the fight against corruption is the nation’s topmost priority, with the President taking the lead in the process. This is an opportunity that should be seized in order to sanitise the sports sector. The anti-corruption broom that is sweeping every room in the Kenyan government should now focus on purging the dirt in the sports industry. The Constitution requires the country to hold elections every five years. So come 2022, Kenya shall yet again go through the challenging cycle of high-octane political competition with disruptive effects on livelihoods and the economy. Whereas efforts continue to be put in place to normalise the electoral environment, the challenge of stability still persists and it is inevitable that Kenya will be faced with a unity challenge in 2022. That same year in Qatar the community of nations will come together in a celebration of football and diversity. FIFA officially reported that the World Cup is viewed in every single country across the world. The 2014 tournament was watched by an estimated 3.2 billion viewers, making it the most watched TV event of the 21st century. This number includes millions of Kenyans who come together to cheer on various teams from different nations with a passion and zeal that can rival the citizens of the sponsoring countries. The unifying effect of such a massive global event cannot be underestimated. Sport has been proven to be one of the most effective platforms of building unity, even in severely fractured societies. If Kenya was to qualify for the World Cup in 2022, the unity dividend that will come with it will be a Godsend as it shall coincide with elections, which have always strained our social fabric. There can be no greater unifying factor and welcome distraction for Kenyans during a divisive electioneering year than a World Cup with the Harambee Stars participating in it and reminding all of us that we are one united nation. But first things first, we must rally behind our President to slay the corruption dragon, including in our sports sector.  Public policy and governance expert kipkuleic@gmail.com