Treasury CS Henry Rotich aided the importation of sugar worth Sh10 billion after the duty-free window was closed, three Kakamega MPs said yesterday. Ayub Savula (Lugari), Tindi Mwale (Butere) and Justus Murunga (Matungu) asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to sack Rotich and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett, now ambassador to India, for allowing 14 companies to import 71,040 tonnes after the expiry of the waiver period. nThe duty-free window ran from May 12 to August 31 last year. The MPs said the two officials are unfit to hold public office. Correspondence between the Agriculture ministry, Treasury and Kenya Revenue Authority, that has been seen by the Star, shows the two ministries pushed the authority to allow tax-free sugar into the country after August 31. In a letter dated September 12, 2017, Bett wrote to Rotich recommending that the 14 companies be exempted from taxation and their consignment cleared. Read : CSs Rotich, Adan, Kiunjuri, in blame game over bad sugar The letter was copied to KRA commissioner general John Njiraini. According to Bett, the importers experienced delays in having their consignment during the waiver period due to "logistical difficulties, low tides delaying loading of cargoes, turbulent and unfavourable weathers in the high seas and delays at the transshipment ports." The MPs said the claims were an excuse to flood the market with cheap sugar and allow a few importers to earn huge profits at the expense of the economy. “What proof did the CS had to show that indeed there was ocean turbulence and logistical challenges?” Murunga said. On Septemeber 21, Treasury PS Kamau Thugge wrote to KRA’s commisioner of customs of border control advising him to proceed and clear the Sh10 billion tax-free sugar. KRA commisioner Julius Musyoki in one of the responses to Thugge, dated September 27, 2017, protested the directive and instead advised the Treasury to issue another gazette notice extending the duty-free window to September 20, when Rotich endorsed clearance of the consignment. “We are experiencing difficulties implementing the Treasury letter with respected to listed sugar consignments,” Musyoki’s letter to Thugge reads. Read:KRA, Kebs officials face arrest over Sh1.8 billion contraband sugar Among the companies allowed to import tax-free sugar after the expiry of the duty-free window included Sukari Investments Limited which is associated with West Kenya Sugar Company chairman Jaswant Rai. Flora Bakers Limited, Piccadilly Holding Limited, Landmark Freight Services, Darasa Investments Limited, Pillarmatt Limited, The Option Two Limited, Ifox Commodity Limited, Paleah Stores Limited, Elon Commodities (K) Limited, Coast Terminal East Africa Limited, Zack Petroleum Limited and Export Trading Company Limited were also allowed to import sugar without paying taxes. Savula said the importers should forced to pay tax. He asked DCI boss George Kinoti and EACC to take over the matter and preferred charges against those found to have breached the law. Also read : Kebs MD Charles Ongwae released on Sh15 million bond Click here for the latest political news