On August 8, 2017, Kenyans went to the ballot in a hotly contested presidential election pitting President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The election left a divided country even as the Supreme Court nullified Uhuru's win and ordered a fresh election on October 26 that Raila boycotted. One year later, Uhuru to set to tour Raila's Kisumu backyard on August 8 as the March 9 handshake where the two called a truce comes full circle. Judiciary Woes The National Treasury has defended the chopping of the Judiciary’s budget, saying it did not have enough funds to spread out over competing needs, the Star reports. Responding to the Judicial Service Commission’s alarm on Tuesday, Treasury CS Henry Rotich said the Judiciary like other government institutions presented its wish list for the year but was allocated funds based on the available revenue and priorities. Chief Justice David Maraga has faulted the reduction of the Judiciary's budget from Sh17.3 billion to Sh14.5 billion saying this would stall up to 70 projects across the country. Panty Evidence Ann Rwamba is accused of assaulting another woman Prisca Gatiri in what she now claims is due to a love triangle involving her husband. On Tuesday, she appeared at an Embu court armed with an underwear she claimed to be her accuser’s. Rwamba said Gatiri abandoned the item in her bed after she caught her sleeping with her husband. City in Garbage City Hall will monitor garbage collection at night to curb illegal dumping, especially by street boys, in Embakasi South subcounty. Anyone found illegal dumping will be arrested. County Executive for Environment Larry Wambua told the Star that illegal dumping in slums is a big problem. EDITORIAL The Star Editors today are of the view that slashing the Judiciary budget reeks of malice. They argue that the drastic funding reduction, therefore, undermines the equilibrium of the three arms of government. Your Weather: NAIROBI: Mostly cloudy. High 20ºC. Winds SSE at 10 to 15 km/h. MOMBASA: Morning showers. High 27ºC. Winds S at 15 to 30 km/h. Chance of rain 40%. KISUMU: Partly cloudy. High 28ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Click here for the latest political news