NASA founder Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed Ford-K leader Moses Wetang’ula’s remarks that the coalition is dead. The ANC leader yesterday said they have challenges but they will meet to fix them. Other affiliate parties are ODM and Wiper. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula plan to merge their parties. “I started it. As far as I’m concerned, no party has written to the Registrar of Political Parties to withdraw from NASA. In the agreement, it takes three parties to walk out of the coalition for it to collapse,” Mudavadi said. On Monday, Wetang’ula said in Mtwapa that NASA was dead, and he was concentrating on rebuilding Ford Kenya. “NASA is history and for us, we always say those who ignore history run the risk of repeating it,” the Bungoma senator said. Speaking on a morning TV show on Tuesday, deputy party leader Boni Khalwale said Ford Kenya has withdrawn from NASA. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula are in the process of collapsing their parties into one strong outfit for 2022. The Amani National Congress leader admitted that opposition has its own challenges but said that leaders would sit down and steady the ship. He said that NASA leaders do not want to kill the opposition since democracy world over was about those in government and opposition. “We shall be killing the hopes of many Kenyans if we allow opposition to die,” he said. He was accompanied by Sabatia MP Alfred Agoi and Kakamega county assembly leader of minority David Ndakwa. Mudavadi reiterated that he was ready to become Kenya’s fifth president in 2022. He said that he must not join government to become president. The former deputy prime minister urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to tighten the noose on corruption if he ever wishes to leave a legacy after his tenure as president. “Every Kenyan of goodwill must support the war on corruption now that the president seemed determined to wrestle the monster but they should not just caress the vice because it is a real threat to the economic and social being of the nation,” he said. Mudavadi at the same time hit out at the Jubilee government accusing it of exploiting Kenyans through over taxation. He said that Kenyans need space to breath. He faulted the government’s proposal to scrap boarding school to reign in on run away indiscipline in schools as ill advised. Mudavadi instead he asked the government to address underlying issues that trigger unrest in schools. He also criticized the proposed common uniform for all school as clumsy. Click here for the latest political news