July 18 marks what would have been the 100th birthday of former South African president and social justice leader Nelson Mandela – and the world is taking notice. Nelson Mandela International Day will soon be held in celebration of the late political leader and humanitarian. Notably, former US President Barack Obama has led the way in paying homage to Mandela, giving a high-profile speech in South Africa to honor his legacy. Read: Mandela lecture: Barack Obama condemns disregard for facts Also read: Obama’s Mandela lecture comes at auspicious time for democracy Here’s all you need to know about what Nelson Mandela International Day is, when it is, how its celebrated and who Nelson Mandela was. What is Nelson Mandela International Day? Nelson Mandela International Day is a global event held annually to honor Mandela. The event started after the Nelson Mandela Foundation and 46664, a concert series that benefits AIDS victims referencing Mandela’s prison number 46664, first proposed the idea of a worldwide day honoring the work and legacy of Nelson Mandela in April 2009. The first Mandela Day was held on Mandela’s 91st birthday on July 18, 2009 to promote volunteering and community service, being marked worldwide with community service events, art exhibits, fundraisers and a concert at Radio City Music Hall in New York City. The United Nations soon took interest and supported the idea of a global day honoring Mandela, declaring in November 2009 the marking of July 18 as Nelson Mandela International Day. When is Nelson Mandela International Day 2018? Nelson Mandela International Day 2018 will be held on July 18, marking the anniversary of Mandela’s birthday on July 18, 1918. 2018 is notable in that it commemorates what would’ve been Mandela’s 100th birthday. How is Nelson Mandela International Day celebrated? Events marking Nelson Mandela International Day center on volunteering and community service, especially on issues that Mandela fought for such as the alleviation of poverty, the fight for social justice and the promotion of peace and cultural diversity. Other events held around the world marking Nelson Mandela International Day include artwork exhibitions, concerts and educational seminars. Who was Nelson Mandela? Mandela was the former President of South Africa as well as an anti-apartheid activist, philanthropist and political leader. He was born in Mvezo, Cape Province, South Africa on July 18, 1918. After studying law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand, he later found work as a lawyer in Johannesburg. In 1943, he joined the African National Congress, which fought against the widespread oppression of black South Africans, and became politically active, fighting against colonialism and later the institution of apartheid by the ruling National Party in 1948. Mandela soon emerged as a key leader in the resistance to racist apartheid laws, being arrested multiple times and later being sentenced to life in prison in 1964 after being trialed for conspiring to overthrow the government. Amid growing pressure both internally and throughout the world, the South African government finally released Mandela after 27 years in 1990. He soon worked alongside President FW de Klerk to dismantle the apartheid regime in 1991 and usher in the peaceful 1994 general election in which he was elected as the country’s new president. During his presidency from May 1994 to June 1999, Mandela worked to promote racial reconciliation, fight poverty and expand healthcare for all South Africans. After leaving office, he remained active in many philanthropic efforts throughout the world, particularly ending the HIV/AIDS crisis and reducing poverty. For his efforts promoting social justice, democracy and peace, he was awarded dozens of prestigious accolades, including the Nobel Peace Prize and the US Presidential Medal of Freedom. Mandela passed away on December 5, 2013 at age 95, but not before becoming known as one of the most prominent and respected civil rights leaders and humanitarians of the modern era. Click here for the latest political news