Defending champions Kwanthanze Girls volleyball team start their title defence against long time nemesis Cheptil as the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association Term Two Games serve off today at Hill School, Eldoret. The two sides, both boosting of national gongs are drawn in Pool ‘B’ alongside former champions Tetu High and debutants Nyakach, who face off in the second group match. Tutored by title winning coach Barasa Matete formerly with Malava, Nyakach are out to garner experience at that high level competitions. The second group will see debutants Bishop Sulumeti meet Makaror from Nerth Eastern Region as St. John’s Kaloleni lock horns with Soweto Academy. In the boys’ category, Malava Boys will commence the tournament with a match against Mogonga PAG who locked out the 2017 winners Sengera SDA in the Nyanza regional finals in Pool ‘B’ action. The second game of the group pit newbies Gatunga and Kirwara as Lang’ata High entertain Furaha (North Eastern). Kapkenyeloi come face-to-face with Shimoni High in the other duel. Under 16 girls’ football defending champions Olympic meet Wiyeta in their opener as Alliance play St. Anne’s Sega Girls in Pool ‘A’ duels. Tartar lock horns with Materdell Mua as Waa entertain Moi Girls Nangili in Pool ‘B’ matches. St Peter’s Mumias (boys) have a date with Sabunley (North Eastern) today whereas St Cyprian entertain Riyabu in Under-16 Pool ‘A’. In the second group, St Anthony’s Kitale battle Olbolsat as Upper Hill play Kinondo. Football U-19 girls’ defending champions Wiyeta open their campaign against Matu Memorial in Pool ‘A’ encounter as Archbishop Njenga play Kwale Girls. Pool ‘B’ duels will pit Itigo and Olympic, and Nginda with Kobala. Boys’ U-19 tie will be between Kathungi and Kakamega High’s Green Commandos while St Anthony’s face Ringa (Nyanza). Pool ‘B’ fixtures will be between Olbolsat and national stage returnees Dagoretti High and Tarbaj (North Eastern) encounters Shimba Hills (Coast). In netball (girls), Nyakach play Olympic today as Karuri meet Bukholo in Pool ‘A’. In the pool ‘B’ Syumille battle against holders Kaya Tiwi as Senior Chief Ogle (North Eastern) have an encounter with Manor House (Rift Valley).