Coffee farmers from Nyeri and Kericho counties will follow live feeds from the Nairobi auction after Nairobi Coffee Exchange put up two screens for regions. The installation of the trading screens is set to relieve farmers and traders from travelling long distances to check updates on coffee trading in Nairobi. “The upgraded system to be officially launched later this month by Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri will allow auction participants to transact their contracts in good time and probably improve on pricing,” NCE chief executive Daniel Mbithi said. He said the advancement of the trading system will enhance transparency and instill more confidence between farmers and traders. So far, the systems upgrade spearheaded by the Coffee Subsector Implementation Committee has cost Sh33 million since the committee was established in 2016. The upgrade was financed through resources provided by the NCE management committee and fees charged on coffee samples presented to the auction by farmers through marketing agents. This is an upgrade of the initial system but with some improvements to serve the coffee stakeholders better,” Mbithi said. CSIC chair Joseph Kieyah said another Sh203.5 million is needed to fully upgrade the system to a modern commodities exchange. The improvement is set to hasten processing of market reports while buyers will also be receiving pro-forma invoices without delay. They can also gauge their credit performance while trade is ongoing. “Marketing agents equally immediately will be receiving their relevant reports faster and speed has now been improved to the extent that the auction will be ending sometimes as early as 2pm –participants can begin to transact their contracts in good time and probably improve on pricing,” Mbithi said. The upgraded system is an improvement of the 1998 government-introduced automated system that allowed coffee dealers to bid for the beans through pressing of a button and therefore eliminating the open outcry and improved transparency.