Council of Governors chairman Josphat Nanok has accused Tourism CS Najib Balala of bias, saying he favours the Coast and famous game reserves. Nanok said on Monday that Balala has failed to promote tourism in Northern Kenya, preferring the Masai Mara and Nairobi National Park. “Balala hardly visits Northern Kenya. He never talks about the region for tourism yet it’s full of natural resources and historic features that could fill the tourism basket with revenue,” Nanok said. Balala did not answer calls or respond to text messages by 6pm yesterday. Nanok also criticised poor  conservation of the existing resources.Last week, Unesco released a report on the possible drying up of Lake Turkana, the world’s largest desert lake. Nanok said, “We have seen very little done to conserve Lake Turkana. It’s time the government steps up to ensure equal conservation efforts of all resources.” Tourism ministry statistics show international arrivals increased last year by 9.8 per cent to 1.4 million from the previous year’s 1.3 million. “We can never surpass that 1.4 million mark of tourists if we do not run an all-inclusive campaign,” he said. Last year tourism revenue increased by 20.3 per cent to  Sh120 billion, despite the long electioneering period. Shortcomings Insecurity and conflict, poor infrastructure and marginalisation have hurt tourism. Speaking in Loiyangalani on Saturday, Marsabit Governor Mahamud Ali urged the government to improve roads and airports. “I urge the government and the Tourism department to push for development of infrastructure in Marsabit, Turkana and Isiolo,” Ali said at the Lake Turkana cultural festival. He said the county will partner with the national government to set up a tourist centre in Loiyangalani on the southeastern coast of Lake Turkana. Ali announced a plan to upgrade the Loiyangalani Airstrip. Thousands of people attended the festival to celebrate culture through dance and display of traditional items and indigenous food. They included Borana leaders led by spiritual guru (Abagadda) Kura Jarso. Politicians who spoke at the event said the festival has contributed to peace among the 14 tribes in the county.