Sixty per cent of sugar that entered the country between July and December last year was unfit for human consumption, MPs heard yesterday. Health PS Peter Tum told a joint Agriculture and Trade committee that tests carried on sugar — mostly from warehouses in Nairobi, Nakuru and Kiambu counties — showed it did not meet the permissible moisture standards. “From our analysis, 60 per cent did not comply with the standards. The brown sugar moisture content makes it unfit for human consumption,” he said. Read: What lab tests say about metals found in brown sugar Tum said moisture above the recommended range is toxic and poisonous for domestic use. He told the committee that the ministry has directed destruction of the huge volumes of the unfit sugar, as the remaining 40 per cent is analysed. According to the ministry’s laboratory results, lead and copper were within the range from the sampled sugar. Tum said tests are ongoing at the government chemist to ascertain the presence of chemical impurities. The ministry sampled 174 samples from warehouses and found that more than half failed the moisture content test. Sugar from the warehouses is delivered to retailers who sell it to consumers. The Kenya Bureau of Standards ruled out mercury in the imported sugar. Appearing before the joint Committee earlier yesterday, Kebs acting MD Moses Ikiara said the sugar had no mercury despite allegations. More: Contraband sugar does not have mercury, Trade CS insists He said a multi-agency formed by the government has yet to conclude its investigation. “There is no mercury from the sugar so far tested,” Ikiara said. The committee members protested and questioned his interest when the testing was still ongoing. “If you have yet to get the results, what are these you have tested and found to be mercury-free? ” Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami said. Ministry officials did not disclose the importers of the unfit consignments. They said they have ordered that they be destroyed. The MPs also faulted Kebs for failing the country after it emerged that the bulk of the sugar might have been sold directly to consumers without reprocessing. House team co-chaired by Kanini Kega (Kieni) and Adan Haji (Mandera South) said Kebs  failed to put in place enough safeguards at the Mombasa port to ensure compliance with safety standards. Appearing before the committee, Council of Governors’ Agriculture department chairperson Okoth Obado called for the disbandment of the Agriculture Food Authority. The committee is expected to present its findings on whether the sugar allowed into the country during the duty-free period had mercury. Also Read: Sugar probe: I can’t confirm sugar has mercury, Matiang’i tells MPs Click here for the latest political news 