Bungoma MCAs have been asked to unearth more corruption cases like the wheelbarrow scandal where tender officials defrauded the county in 2015. In his first address to the county assembly since last year’s polls on Thursday afternoon, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula asked the MCA to play their oversight role effectively. He applauded the last assembly for keeping the executive in check. The last assembly exposed corruption in the tendering committee where officials inflated prices of wheelbarrows. The seven officials have since been convicted, but last week appealed the ruling. “Do not sit back and be morticians carrying out postmortem on dead bodies by only oversighting and looking at how money has been spent. But you must also strive to create an environment of transparency by doing budget tracking by requiring periodic reports from the executive,” he said. “Once you allocate money in a ministry you do not have to wait till end of financial year to ask the ministers how money was spent.Do periodic reports and evaluation reports in ministries to know how project implementation is being carried out to seal any loophole for theft,” he said. The Senator reminded the ward representatives to summon county officials every four months to check spending. “You were elected on a triple mandate to represent, legislate and oversight and once you allocate money in a ministry you do not have to wait till end of a financial year for you to ask the minster how he has spent money you allocated his ministry,” he said. The Senator said corruption is the main cause of underdevelopment in most counties. He noted MCAs would be to blame when the electorate complains that money has been embezzled. “The people of Bungoma rely solely on the MCAs to know if money is used positively to improve lives of people and if you can’t change the lives of people who elected you, then you are not worth being elected,” Wetangula added. He invited the MCAs to visit the Senate to benchmark and learn how to oversight effectively. The Ford Kenya boss said in his recent trip to Canada, he managed to pair the assembly with a provincial parliament of British Columbia which will visit Bungoma assembly in two months. “The good news is that in the financial year 2018/ 2019 the Treasury will award Sh6.8 billion to 18 counties for improved revenue collection and Bungoma is one of the counties that will receive the reward,” he said. The senator accused Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala of only promoting Mombasa and Maasai Mara as tourist destinations. The senator was accompanied by six senators including youngest nominated senator Mercy Chebeni from Mt Elgon.