The Embu assembly has interdicted two county staff members following media reports that MCAs have budgeted Sh11 million for gym fees to help them lose weight. The county assembly’s sports and fitness fund has been allocated Sh11 million, while gym fees were calculated at Sh3,000 per month per individual. The amount was to pay for 33 MCAs and 80 staff members. Senior communications officer Mutugi Njue and senior Hansard reporter Daizy wa Rutere were interdicted on Thursday last week by the assembly Public Service Board. The board is chaired by speaker Josiah Thiriku and clerk Jim Kauma is the secretary. The duo was interdicted through letters from Kauma, accusing them of leaking confidential information from the assembly to the media without authority. Official secret The officers are accused of violating the Official Secrets Act of 1968. Kauma yesterday confirmed the board had interdicted the two staff members, pending investigations into what he called “suspicion of releasing confidential information without authority”. He declined to elaborate on the information. “Every officer employed by the government has signed an official secrets oath because in the county assembly only the speaker and the clerk are supposed to talk on behalf of the assembly. So if you release whatever information for the assembly, you need clearance,” Kauma said. Following the interdiction, social media has been abuzz with criticism of the assembly. Some people have accused it of highhandedness and working in secret. Adopt healthy lifestyle Speaker Thiriku was reported to have said that many MCAs had gotten fat and unhealthy weight could hamper their legislative duties. He encouraged them to adopt a healthy lifestyle by exercising to lose weight and keep fit. Following media reports in mid-June on the plan, the public, politicians and religious leaders opposed the move on social media and in public meetings. They said it was a waste of public money. They called MCAs selfish and focussed on the wrong priorities. But the MCAs said the matter of gym subscriptions to help them lose weight had been politicised and exaggerated to provoke a public outcry. Majority leader Michael Njeru said the proposal to set aside a Sh11 million for sports and fitness was meant to cater for inter-county games and sports tournaments. It wasn’t only for gym subscriptions, he said. Njeru dismissed claims that MCAs are misusing public funds as political rhetoric from detractors who have no agenda. Njeru said all MCAs are involved in various sport activities aimed at maintaining their fitness.