Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs CS Margaret Kobia is in Nyanza to lay the ground for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s August 8 visit. She is on a three-day tour of Kisumu, Siaya and Homa Bay. After Kobia’s visit, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and his Health counterparty Sicily Kariuki will land in the lakeside region to commission a number of projects. On Wednesday, Kobia promised the ministry will empower the region’s youth, women and people living with disability. She said the national government will ensure the affirmative action funds are used to uplift living standards of the vulnerable in society. Kobia spoke in Siaya town after paying a courtesy call on Governor Cornel Rasanga. “I’m happy that the county has already absorbed Sh600 million in affirmative action, youth enterprise and women enterprise funds,” she said. Kobia said the national government is keen to partner with the counties to promote “wholesome development” for the common good. Uhuru’s war on corruption will ensure resources are managed well and leaders are accountable for the benefit of wananchi, she said. The minister said it is the responsibility of the county and national governments to provide quality services to turn around lives. Nodding in agreement, Rasanga said job creation across the country will depend on how well funds are used to implement projects. “We’re committed to delivering services to Siaya people and would support the initiative that conjoins county staff in huduma centres to offer effective services to reduce workloads at the county offices,” he said. The county boss appealed to the ministry to ensure more Siaya youth join the NYS so they learn technical skills that would be key for the realisation of Vision 2030 goals. He hailed the deal between Uhuru and NASA chief Raila Odinga. The handshake has created an environment conducive for development and investment, he said. Kobia added that good relationship between the counties and the national government will support proper implementation of development projects. She said urged the used to acquire technical skills that would enable them to gain self-employment. The government cannot employ every young person, she said. “I want to urge the youth to enroll in vocational training institutes to learn how to empower themselves through value-addition courses and create jobs,” Kobia said. She disabused parents of the notion that vocational training courses pay less. Jobs requiring technical skills pay more than those provided in the formal sector, the CS said. Rasanga concurred and urged Kenyans to support the county and national governments to fix the problems that disenfranchise the youth, women and the disabled. Resources and efforts can be pulled together to support projects that would bring about meaningful change through business and job opportunities, he said. The governor said this would stimulate shared prosperity.   