Two weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a directive freezing all new government projects until stalled or ongoing projects are completed. While the announcement received praise from some quarters, it is seemingly dawning to some that it may have been done outside the law. A number of MPs unhappy with Uhuru's order, which could affect their CDF project promises, plan to raise their objections in Parliament. The 40 MPs, led by South Mugirango's Sylvanous Osoro, will meet this morning to agree on the best way to raise their concerns before the House resumes sittings in the afternoon. ERC Robin Hood tariff Electricity consumers buying low units of up to 10Kwh will from tomorrow pay less at the expense anyone whose consumption goes beyond this. In new tariffs announced yesterday, the Energy Regulatory Commission has scrapped the monthly fixed fee which will see low-end users benefit from an 82 per cent reduction. The cost has however been loaded on extra charges for those who consume beyond 11kwh within a billing period. Energy Regulatory Commission Director General Pavel Oimeke said the government has scrapped a monthly fixed charge of Sh150 for low-cost consumers whose number is an estimated 3.6 million. School fires Over the years, the second term of school calendars in Kenya has been characterised by chaos, with students often striking and burning structures. This year alone, 63 schools have experienced riots and arson targeting school dormitories and administration blocks in two months. Fifty of them reported fires. Most arson cases have occurred in boarding schools, followed by mixed boarding and day schools, and lastly day schools. Both those schools that perform well and those that struggle in national examinations have been affected. This year’s wave of unrest has been blamed on fear of exams, resistance to transfer of head teachers, peer influence, change in education policies and indiscipline. Boarding schools, which account for at least 80 per cent of schools in Kenya, are often targeted because students feel imprisoned there. The Star today is seeking to get into the heart of the fires and riots that have swept through secondary schools as MPs grilled Education CS Amina Mohamed. Illegal dumping killer The health of teachers and more than 850 pupils at Ngunyumu Primary School in Korogocho slum is at risk because of illegal dumping. Teachers and pupils often fall ill after inhaling smoke and enduring the smell caused by rotting and burning garbage. The school is surrounded by garbage disposed of by trucks that avoid dumping at the Dandora dump site. EDITORIAL The Star Editors today argue that by capping lifeline tariff consumption units at 10kWh per billing from 50kWh, ERC technically excluded most households in the country from benefiting from the new tariff structure. They are calling on regulators to stop playing tricks as Kenyans want affordable electricity. YOUR WEATHER Nairobi: Thunderstorms during the day and showers at night. Low 13ºC.  High 20ºC. Winds ESE at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 80 percent. Mombasa: Morning showers and partly cloudy night. Low 21ºC. High 28ºC. Winds S at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 40 percent. Kisumu: Thunderstorms developing in the afternoon into the night. Low 18ºC. High 28ºC. Winds SSW at 10 to 15 km/h. Chance of rain 60 percent to 80 percent. Click here for the latest political news