A Government of National Unity was first cobbled together by President Mwai Kibaki when he was threatened by impeachment and a hotly contested referendum. Kibaki made a tactical decision to bring onboard Opposition MPs to counter the rebellion by disaffected Cabinet ministers and MPs in Narc. Opposition chief Raila Odinga, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Kanu chairman Uhuru Kenyatta were giving Kibaki sleepless nights. But Kibaki pulled a fast one ahead of the 2005 constitutional referendum. On June, 30, 2004, he appointed to the Cabinet stalwarts, including Njenga Karume and John Koech from Kanu and Simeon Nyachae and Henry Obwocha from Ford People. Many opposition MPs became assistant ministers. Read: Is Uhuru planning unity government? In his autobiography, Walking through the Corridors of Service, Nyachae writes that if Kibaki lost the vote of no-confidence, he would have no option but to go home. “It would mean the President either resigns or dissolves Parliament, a move likely to plunge the country into chaos,” Nyachae writes. “So the President suggested a government of national unity involving opposition politicians to avoid the impending catastrophe.” While announcing the changes, Kibaki, an astute politician, said all he wanted was a government reflecting aspirations of the majority. “A united government can never be woven simply along party lines...leadership must reflect the entire people of Kenya. Today, I have decided to re-organise my government to reflect the diversity of the Kenyan people,”he stated. Ironically, Kibaki was to form another government of national unity nearly four years later — but under different circumstances forced by an unprecedented bloodletting. Raila accused Kibaki of stealing the 2007 election as the country descended into deadly tribal clashes. Kibaki said he won fair and square, accusing the opposition of instigating ethnic violence. Mostly known as the Grand Coalition, the unity government was formed in April 2008 after the international community forced the antagonists to negotiate. Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan was the key mediator. Negotiations lasted more than a month due to disagreements between the two principals and factions from ODM and PNU. Under the final accord, Raila and Kibaki were to be equal partners in government with decisions made through consultations. However, Kibaki would continue serving as President while Raila became Prime Minister. The Cabinet consisted of a record 40 ministers and 52 assistant ministers, largely from Kibaki's PNU and Raila's ODM. Kibaki had also co-opted Kalonzo into government as Vice President. Many of his stalwarts in defunct ODM Kenya got Cabinet jobs. More on this: Expert comment: Why unity governments are formed Also read: Raila stirs 2022 succession after meeting Kibaki Click here for the latest political news