Tourism CS Najib Balala has told those calling for his sacking over the death of 11 rhinos translocated to Tsavo National Park 'to go to hell'. The CS, after a meeting at Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho's office on Monday, said that he will not be intimidated over the rhinos. Balala added that he would not apologise for suspending six senior KWS officers said to have borne the greatest responsibility in the disastrous translocation. The CS, who is facing criticism for punishing the senior Kenya Wildlife Service officers, his critics are on a plot to destroy the parks. "I will stand for what is right...These are sideshows....nobody appointed me. It is only Uhuru Kenyatta who has appointed me...they can go to hell and I can tell them that...I don't want to comment about the rhinos but they can go to hell," he said. "It is Uhuru Kenyatta who knows I have the capacity to run the wildlife docket and nobody will intimidate me, they want to destroy KWS so that they can take over the parks and start using emotions of international people to raise funds for their lifestyles that are not accountable". Last week, former KWS board chairman Richard Leakey said there was no board in place to take disciplinary actions against the suspended officials. "The absence of a board for the three months has left weighty decisions entirely with the ministry," he said in his reaction on the translocation. He said Balala’s announcement of the suspensions was unfortunate because it failed to reflect the fundamental issues behind the deaths. "He should perhaps dig deeper into the real problems at KWS," Leakey said in a statement. Read: Leakey, vets fault CS Balala for Tsavo rhino death suspensions The CS spoke at a time the National Assembly Environment Committee has summoned him to explain what occasioned the death of the rhinos. He is also expected to provide details of the authorisation for the translocation following claims that the proper procedure was not followed. Related: Balala gets date with Environment committee over black rhino deaths Click here for the latest political news