Governor Mike Sonko and other Nairobi leaders have pledged to ensure the IAAF World U20 Championships are a success. Kenya will host the championship in 2020 following endorsement by the IAAF Council. This is the first time in 18 editions that the games will be staged in Africa. Read: Kenya to host 2020 IAAF U20 championships In a tweet on Friday, Sonko said his administration will work with the government on this as "Nairobi is truly the city of choice to invest, work and live in". Senator Johnson Sakaja said Kenya got the right because of the successful 2017 tournament that took place at Safaricom Stadium Kasarani. “Last year, we broke the record for the highest attendance at the IAAF World U18 Championships to the shock of many globally,” Sakaja tweeted. “The successful event has led to Nairobi being selected to host the championship in 2020. We are glad to host the world once more.” Crowds of up to 60,000 watched the games, filling up the venue. Sports CS Rashid Echesa assured the ministry's commitment to making the 2020 event a success. “We have adequate facilities ... we will ensure the venue is improved further,” he said, adding this is a sign that Kenya will host many major sporting events in the future. Sports PS Peter Kirimi noted benefits to tourism and said some countries that missed the last event have already confirmed participation. “Though Kasarani stadium is in perfect condition, extra renovations will be undertaken and more athletes nurtured as Kenya prepares [to host the tournament]. More athletes will be identified for Team Kenya,” he said. A committee will be set up in a month as part of preparations for 2020. Kenyans praised IAAF for recognising the country as an athletics powerhouse. Laura Walubengo said: “Such great news. I think young people should start thinking of business opportunities that can arise from this.” One Kimutai Abraham said athletes have proven beyond reasonable doubt that Kenya is the best country, despite corruption. Click here for the latest political stories