A retired administrator from Kiparkebo village in Baringo North is recuperating in hospital after being attacked by wild animals. Former Kapkoiwo sub-location assistant chief Simon Komen, 64, was admitted at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret after the Monday incident. "I heard my sheep bleating at around 2am. It was dark. I went outside with a spotlight and a panga. I saw two animals that looked like dogs trying to kill my sheep," Komen said from his hospital bed on Tuesday. He raised the panga to scare them away but the animals pounced on him. "One bit my left hand so I dropped the spotlight. It went off so I couldn’t identify the animals," he said. Komen struggled with the beasts for at least 30 minutes. He screamed, waking villagers who took him to hospital. Read: Stray Leopards kill 39 sheep, goats in Baringo Central Read: Death, injury caused by snakes to attract no payout in proposal Doctors amputated one of his middle fingers that was badly bitten and he also received 20 stitches for gaping wounds all over his body. His son Reuben Kipsang, who was at the hospital, said Komen was on a wheelchair as he couldn't walk. Saimo-Kipsaraman ward representative John Aengwo criticised the Kenya Wildlife Service for taking long to respond. "The incident was reported to the KWS but nothing has been done," he said. Baringo KWS deputy warden David Cheruiyot said investigations were launched and officers at the Barwessa station directed to take up the matter. Kipkata location chief Isaac Tobolee said a similar incident occurred in the area two weeks ago; resident John Lokoria was attacked by a wild animal on his way home at Teremon between Kasok and Poi. "The place is far from people's homes. He fought the animal for long. Fortunately, he had a panga and killed the animal," the chief said. On Tuesday, Tobolee said a beast invaded resident Sumukwo Cherutoi's home at Tunoichuch village but his barking dogs scared it away. Meanwhile, residents of Kiboino village in Baringo Central demanded compensation after leopards killed 39 sheep and goats last Wednesday. The leopards are believed to have escaped from Rimoi Game Reserve in the neighbouring Elgeyo Marakwet county. Senior Baringo KWS warden Dickson Too told residents they would be compensated and that a trap was laid for the animals which will be returned to the reserve. He asked residents to be careful during night walks. Click here for the latest political stories