The Public Service Commission has discouraged Kenyans from attempting to bribe commissioners in the hope of influencing their appointments to state offices. Acting PSC chairman Peter Ole Nkuraiyia said attempts to influence the outcome of a vetting process will only amount to a loss of personal funds as it’s impossible to bribe all the nine commissioners. "If you go and bribe one commissioner, you will be wasting your money because you will come and sit and the decision will be made by nine commissioners," Nkuraiyia said. He spoke on Wednesday during the national dialogue conference on PSC values and principals at a Nairobi Hotel. The conference was the top leadership in the PSC to discuss ways of deepening values and principals in the commission. The PSC is mandated with appointing persons to hold or act in state offices and to confirm appointees to such offices. This includes the vetting of Principal Secretaries in all ministries and the short-listing and vetting of officials in state departments. Read: New rules give PSC powers over state corporations, hiring staff Nguraiya said the PSC make recruitments purely on merit and none of the people it approves goes through by bribing. "As a commission, we stand for everybody. I don’t know anyone. If a file comes, I look at the qualifications. Do you merit?" Ngaruiya said any person who attempts to bribe commissioners has in essence judged themselves and realised they don’t merit for a position. CEO Alice Otwala said the talk about PSC commissioners has been on for quite some time but the commission has never been found culpable. She said they have appeared before various state agencies to respond to the allegations, including the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission but have never been found guilty. "I can assure you today, and you can take it to the bank, no one in the commission takes a bribe and if you know please tell me today," she said. Otwala said the commission has maintained such high integrity in its operations to a point of overruling court decisions on reinstating sacked public officials on integrity grounds. "I have been in courts so many times because of saying no to what was not right," she said. Otwala said all the PSs that have passed through the commission 'can stand the test of time'. "The other aspects that they fall into, you know as well as I do, they are issues of finances. These are now financial matters which are beyond the HR matters which this commission is mandated to undertake," she said. She cited the scandal at the National Youth Service as an example where Public Service PS in the Youth department Lillian Omollo was implicated into. Read: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino She said such issues are handled by the investigating agencies and the courts. "But we work together and where they are found culpable, we have taken action," she said. Omollo was sacked on July 13 in the latest mini-reshuffle and appointments announced by the President Uhuru Kenyatta. Her position will be taken up by Francis Otieno Owino subject to parliamentary approval. Omollo and 48 others are out on bail on charges of committing economic crimes relating to the loss of Sh468 million from NYS. Such crimes according to section 48 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act attract fines amounting to double the sums involved. The court was told that the PS used her office to improperly approve the payment of Sh28,766,700 million to Ameri Trade Limited for goods that were never delivered. Click here for the latest political news 