Naivasha-based flower firm Karuturi has sued Stanbic Bank and four receiver managers for allegedly thwarting its revival through mismanagement and secret acquisition of loans. The move comes as a twist to the four-year battle to expel the statutory managers. The firm says the managers have secretly secured Sh12.9 billion in loans. The firm claims Stanbic secretly advanced a Sh673 million loan to the firm to increase its total indebtedness to Sh1.6 billion. The bank placed Karuturi under receivership on February 10, 2014 over an unpaid Sh601 million loan. Kieran Day and Ian Small were appointed to run Karuturi's affairs until October 2015 when they were replaced by Kuria Muchiru and Muniu Thoiti of PriceWaterhouseCoopers. Karuturi's owners moved to court to challenge the decision. In June 2014, Indian bank ICICI appointed Lolluri Kamasastry as a joint receiver manager to help it recover a Sh4 billion loan. A year later, High Court judge Francis Gikonyo locked Kamasatry out of Karuturi's affairs, saying ICICI had breached the loan agreement. Gikonyo said ICICI failed to advance Sh2.5 billion to Karuturi. The court observed that the money would have helped the firm's business. Karuturi still owes creditors Sh3.2 billion. In January this year, the firm sought High Court judge Francis Tuiyott's permission to amend their suit against Stanbic. The amendment led to the inclusion of mismanagement and sabotage as claims against the receiver managers. Surya Holdings, Rhea Holdings and Karuturi Limited which own the once successful flower farm enjoined receiver managers Kieran Day, Ian Small, Kuria Muchiru and Muniu Thoiti in the suit. Karuturi wants the managers ordered liable for its woes. “By December 31, 2016, Stanbic had with the complicity of Small, Day, Muchiru and Thoiti misappropriated over Sh1 billion in the pretence of recouping an alleged debt of Sh400 million. The misappropriated sum has been irregularly posted as a debt due from Karuturi Limited," Karuturi say in the amended suit. “In a further attempt to redeem securities, the firm approached two banks who were willing to take over the loan from Stanbic. But the banks pulled out as a result of Stanbic's, Small's, Day's, Muchiru's and Thoiti's joint lack of goodwill.” Karuturi wants Stanbic compelled to unconditionally hand over the firm to owners and erase the loan amount claimed by the lender before and after the receivership. The owners say the firm's run down is a collusion between Stanbic, politicians and well connected businessmen who want to acquire their prime assets. They accused Stanbic's receiver managers of allowing pests to invade its farms, failing to harvest on time and instructing 2,200 employees not to go to work. Karuturi says the managers actions and inactions led to a loss of Sh11.5 million daily since the receivership began. It wants Stanbic compelled to pay Sh8.74 billion in compensation for losses between February 10, 2014 and May 6, 2016 when flowers were last harvested.