It is 8 o’clock in the morning at Chesongoch area in Marakwet East, Elgeyo Marakwet county. Jennifer Cheptum is busy with her business at Chesongoch market. Her shiny smiling face portrays an all-is-well picture but behind it lies a spirit of resilience and perseverance. Cheptum’s smile hides the rejection, name-calling and mockery she continues to endure from members of the community just because she is uncircumcised. She is ignored and her opinion — when she gives it — is never considered. Cheptum, 40, born and brought up in Marakwet East is a mother of five children - three daughters and two sons. She comes from a family of five siblings — two sisters and three brothers. At only 14, Cheptum had finished her KCSE exams and run away from home when she realised that her parents wanted her to be circumcised. “In Marakwet East, it is a must for a girl to be cut. I had learnt through teachings given by our church about the horrors of circumcision. I didn’t want to go through it, " she says at her home. "I had also heard about girls who bled profusely after being cut, and the pain that circumcised women go through when giving birth. This is something I feared the most. It influenced my decision not to be cut ... that’s why I escaped." The Marakwets are part of the Kalenjin community. According to the KDHS Report 2014 27.9 per cent of women aged 15 - 49 years have undergone circumcision. Of those who have been circumcised, 90.3 per cent have had their labia and clitoris excised. Unlike other communities, these women did not have to go through the additional agony of being stitched. Their legs were tied to speed up the healing process. Majority of the girls who are circumcised — 70.9 per cent — are those aged 15 years and above. Only a small fraction — 27.2 per cent— is of girls between 10 - 14 years. Read: How emerging tricks are derailing fight against FGM Also read: Kenya on the spot after alarming global ranking on FGM by doctors  RISKING DEATH BY 'SHAMING FAMILY' For running away to avoid the cut, Cheptum was roundly condemned by her family and other villagers who held the view that she brought shame to the family. “Life was so hard for me. I was rejected by our family and considered an outcast. My mother said she’d rather hang herself than continue seeing me shaming her in the society," she says. "She told me that had she known I would bring shame to the family, she would have killed me earlier. My elder sister used to abuse me. She would spit on me and would call me useless, just because I refused to face the knife." Her family’s fears that she would not get married were, however, unfounded when she returned home after six years to announce that she was engaged. “They were all in shock. No one believed me. In fact my mother asked me which Kalenjin man would want to marry an uncircumcised woman," she says. "She even asked me if I was getting married to a Luhya man. I told them 'I’m getting married to a fellow Kalenjin from Baringo' and they accepted it." After delivering the message about her engagement, Cheptum went back to Marakwet West - she didn’t want to spend a single night at their home because she feared she would be circumcised forcefully. “There’s a girl who escaped from home and when she came back after being married with two kids, she was forcefully circumcised. So I informed them about my engagement and left. Thereafter, I conducted my engagement ceremony at my aunt’s place in Cheptongei." YET STILL 'A CHILD' Even though she is living proof that an uncircumcised girl can get married, Cheptum’s standing in the community has not improved. She is still considered a ‘child’ since she has not undergone the cut. “I don’t attend ceremonies. The community cannot allow me to do so. They see me as a child. Even when I talk, they ask ‘what is this child telling us?’ I cannot even pass by as the ceremonies take place, lest they catch me and forcefully cut me. All this is because I was not circumcised. In fact, they never invite me to those ceremonies." Cheptum is not alone. Mary, (not her real name), a 55 year-old-mother of six is also dealing with the stigma of being ignored by her community because she is not circumcised. This has made her work as a chief doubly difficult. “Some women don’t even like associating with me. They see me as a child or someone who’s not fit to be among them. Sometimes I feel rejected in some places when I go about my work. People don’t listen to what I tell them at all,” she says. “My parents are Christians and were a bit exposed. They never saw the importance of female circumcision. We were among the first girls in the community to skip circumcision." FMG'S ILLEGALITY IS NOT ENOUGH The KDHS 2014 Report shows  that 97.1 and 92.2 per cent of women and men from the Kalenjin community believe FGM is not a religion requirement. Despite the pressure from the Marakwet community for women and girls to be cut, many claiming that it’s their culture, the report shows that only 4.4 and 8.4 per cent of women and men respectively, aged 15-49 years believe FGM is a community requirement. Mary* has so far saved around 30 girls from female genital mutilation in her capacity as a chief. Her home is a sanctuary for girls who run away from home to avoid the cut. She provides temporary shelter until parents assure her that they will not compel their daughters to undergo the cut. She also reconciles the girls and their families. For the adamant, Mary provides their girls with shelter until they finish their education. “Most of the girls I have rescued are married while others are in secondary schools and colleges. Some of the community members accuse me of destroying their girls because I advise them not to be circumcised,” she says. Even though she is an administrator compelled by her oath of office to enforce the anti-FGM law, Mary has come to the realisation that the cut will not stop just because there is a law making it illegal. “It will take more than enforcing the law. It will take changing the attitudes that the community has about FGM. It will take frank discussions and education of men andboys. It will need understanding of why such attitudes continue and the alternatives communities have." Mary notes that circumcision means a lot to the Marakwets because when the girls are taken to seclusion houses, they are taught a lot, including how to become good women and be brave. The girls are not given anaethetic drugs or painkillers after being cut and when they come out of the houses, they are considered as full-grown women - for enduring the pain. Mary’s sentiments are echoed by Cheptum, who says: “Circumcised girls were full of pride, as if they had achieved something significant." The two women agree on how to stop the practice which is still rampant in Elgeyo Marakwet, especially in Marakwet East, Kerio Valley and Endo areas. They believe educating young boys and men about the effects of FGM would change the attitude - that getting cut is a sign of strength and therefore something to make families and communities proud. More on this: Pokot girls trained on skills to end FGM, early marriage Click here for the latest political news