Police in Garissa are investigating a fracas at the Fafi Girls Secondary School prize ceremony. Deputy police boss Charles Keses yesterday said troublemakers will be arrested and charged in court. “I assure everyone that we’re pursuing it and will take action,” he said of the Saturday melee. The function had started well before Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman demanded that the programme be changed to make him the guest of honour. The chief guest was to be national director of basic education Habert Sheikh. When he realised his wish could not be granted, Osman rose and grabbed the microphone from headteacher Mohamed Dubat. Students and teachers stared as two groups of residents confronted each other — those against the MP’s action and those supporting it. No one was injured. A source said the MP had complained that he was not informed of the event. Yesterday, a teacher said Osman was to be the chief guest but was replaced after he told the school he was in Dubai on official duty. He said the selection of Sheikh incensed the legislator and “he hurriedly flew back and proceeded straight” to the Bura East school. Sheikh said, however, the legislator had nothing personal against him. He said Osman was against the presence of his rival Salah Yakub. Yakub ran against him in last year’s election. Osman’s supporters dismantled the public address system as he insisted nothing could go on unless the schedule was changed in his favour. Yesterday, the MP said on his Facebook page that the event has been rescheduled for August 4. He said he will be joined by National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. “I will not allow egocentric civil servants with hidden and selfish political agenda to play dirty politics while using the good people of Fafi constituency as their pawns,” he said in the post. “I’ll stand with the people and protect them from being used.” He said he is keen to improve education standards. Osman did not, however, return calls or reply to text messages seeking comment. Sheikh said Osman’s action was uncalled-for. He said Osman was informed two weeks before and his call for a change of chief guest was a ploy to disrupt the function. “We accepted to have him take over as the chief guest, but he still messed the whole thing,” he said. The meeting ended prematurely. Other guests included EACC commissioner Dabar Maalim, Coastal Development Authority director Mohamed Keynan, Land executive Mohamed Shaleh and Keses. Sheikh urged leaders to use the right channels to have their grievances resolved, instead of ruining a school ceremony.