Former US president Barrack Obama was on Tuesday forced to buy a coat in the mall after forgetting about South Africa's 'Winter' month. "I forgot my geography and the fact that its Winter in South Africa. I did not bring a coat and this morning I had to send someone to the malls because I am wearing a long jacket," he said during his lecture in SA. "I was born in Hawaii... truthfully, it has been really cold my lips got stuck..." Obama who is giving a public lecture to celebrate the birth and life of Nelson Mandela, stood up to talk and the attendees sprung with joy as they hailed him. He walked to the podium and started his speech by 'confessing and making corrections' before he could talk about Mandela’s birth by reflecting on his example of perseverance and vision. Obama told the audient that he was a good dancer after shaking a few muscles during his visit to Kenya. "Let me begin by a correction and a few corrections. A correction is that I am a very good dancer. I just want to be clear about that... Michelle is a little better," Obama said. Read: Obama's emotional return to Kogelo During the launch of 'Sauti Kuu' initiative on Monday, Obama was spotted dancing to a Luo song as the crowd applauded his moves. Coupled with shaking of the arms and the head, the former US president was seen getting a nod from his grandmother Sarah Obama on his dance performance. Obama then encouraged his grandmother to stand up and dance to the tune that left many shaking their heads and laughing. The former US president then confessed that he was not invited to the South Africa lecture but 'ordered'. "I was not invited to be here. I was ordered in a good way by Graca Michelle to be here," Obama said adding that he thought he would deliver a lecture to old professors in bow ties.  MANDELA Obama said the late Mandela who was also known as Madiba came to embody the universal aspirations of dispossessed people all around the world. "It was in service of this long walk towards freedom and justice and equal opportunity that Nelson Mandela devoted his life. He came with the hopes for a better life, and the possibility of a moral transformation in the conduct of human affairs," he said. He said Madiba’s light shone so brightly adding that in the late seventies he could inspire a young college student on the other side of the world to re-examine priorities. "And now an entire generation has now grown up in a world that by most measures has gotten steadily freer, healthier, wealthier, less violent and more tolerant during the course of their lifetimes. It should make us hopeful," he said. Noting that he believes in Nelson Mandela's vision, Obama said he believes in a vision that all people are created equal. "I believe in a vision shared by Gandhi and King and Abraham Lincoln. I believe in a vision of equality, justice, freedom and multi-racial democracy, built on the premise that all people are created equal,"  he said. "On Madiba’s 100th birthday, we now stand at a crossroads. A moment in time in which two very different visions of humanity’s future competes about who we are and who we should be..." Obama noted that countries will have to fight harder to reduce inequality among all people. "I don’t believe in economic determinism. Human beings don’t live on bread alone. But they need bread. If we are serious about universal freedom today, it’s not enough to protest, we’re going to have to build and innovate," he said.