Details have emerged of how police officers at the Nairobi Central police station conspired to cover up the attack on former business association chairman Timothy Muriuki. A senior officer at the station is reported to have ordered the release of five men who were arrested moments after they were filmed attacking Muriuki at Hotel Boulevard on April 30. Yesterday, DCI boss George Kinoti confirmed that investigations had linked police to the coverup. “There are officers who were involved in the coverup. They are as guilty as the people who committed the offence,” he told the Star on the phone. “Those implicated will not go unpunished.” Read : [VIDEO] CBD association ex-chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' An investigation report has been forwarded to the DCI, IG Joseph Boinnet and Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Sources familiar with the investigation said the five men were released after City Hall officials intervened. They were never booked in the police occurrence book. Investigations have also pointed a finger at an officer who was attached to Governor Mike Sonko. The officer, who has since reported back to his station after Sonko’s security team was dismantled, is accused of communicating with some suspects. The five men have surrendered to the courts and police have pressed charges of robbery with violence. Top security chiefs have faced Matiang’i’s wrath. The CS summoned them to a meeting over failure to arrest the suspects. Matiang’i also asked National Police Service Commission chairman Johnston Kavuludi to investigate allegations that police had been compromised in investigations. A highly placed source at the Office of the President said a day after the incident, Matiang’i summoned Boinnet, Kinoti, Nairobi DCI boss Ireri Kamwende and read them the riot act. The meeting lasted close to five hours and Matiang’i is reported to have issued a 24 –hour ultimatum to the police chiefs to have Muriuki attackers arrested or they would face an unspecified action. “The CS was angry that the police chiefs kept on telling him the men could not be traced, yet there was intelligence reports that some officers were in constant communication with the suspects,” a senior official from the OP said. It was at the meeting that an angry Matiang’i first revealed to the police chiefs allegations that some security officers had been bribed to block the arrests, he said. Also read: EALA MP Simon Mbugua, two others charged with robbery with violence Matiang’i asked Kavuludi to investigate the conduct of the top city police commanders over allegations they had been compromised, the official said. The top police commanders were made to record statements explaining why they were unable to arrest the suspects, include Kamwende and Central DCI boss Kobina Cheserek, under whose jurisdiction the offence was committed. Kobina and Kamwende have submitted written briefs. They have exonerated themselves from blame and explained how the police dealt with the matter. Click here for the latest political news