Every election cycle we have seen a proliferation of gangs. In the two elections in 2017, the government invested more money, surveillance and equipment to tame the gangs. First, CS Fred Matiang'i and Police IG Joseph Boinnet drew up the list of gangs operating in the country. New gangs made the list. That made government, through the security forces, move fast and minimise their activities. I don't have numbers now, but many people were arrested and prosecuted. Criminal gangs operate as a pseudo government and prefer low-income areas. They operate in places where police penetration is lower. They offer parallel services to the government and demand protection fees. However, they are also behind criminal activities in their areas. This made the government swiftly increase the presence of police in all areas to tame and stop criminal activities. It is a process, which the government has done for the last five years to ensure law and order is maintained. For instance, police deployment has been enhanced in fie years countrywide. More than 20, 000 police officers have been recruited. The ratio of police to citizens is now 1:430.That's above the recommended UN ratio of 1:450. The state built up deployment in areas lacking enough protection. This is to ensure gangs can't operate. In most cases, the people behind these gangs are politicians. There's a linkage between political thuggery and criminal gangs. Criminality is part and parcel of any country. Our role is to eliminate criminals and ensure they can't operate. However, gangs mutate and devise new strategies. And so government has increased penalties and made concerted efforts to ensure law and order. This will make it hard and expensive for gangs to operate. If you go to the US, UK, anywhere, you will find gangs but they are seasonal depending on police crackdowns. It would be a lie to say we can eliminate them. We will continue to invest in police deployment to protect the lives and property of everyone. We have also invested in vehicles and equipment to increase efficiency. We have empowered chiefs with resources to ensure they deliver. The writer is spokesman of the Interior ministry. He spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news       