Murang’a county assembly speaker Nduati Kariuki has said the persistent wrangles in the house will not hamper its legislative and oversight roles. He said on Thursday the majority of MCAs are keen to work for the electorate and only a few are hellbent on fighting over positions. The assembly has been rocked by feuds over a leadership position since November last year. Kahumbu MCA Eric Kamande was elected Majority leader but a faction of MCAs later elected Kimorori’s Amos Murigi. The election took place at a Kiambu hotel but the meeting was invaded by young men and degenerated into fistfights. Murigi’s election was nullified by Jubilee Party, which said it only acknowledged Kamande. But last month, a tribunal set up by the party ruled in favour of Murigi and directed the party and the assembly facilitate his assumption of office. Soon after the decision, Kamande obtained High Court orders blocking Murigi from taking over. Murigi allies have accused the speaker of failing to declare him the Majority leader and disobeying a court order. Kariuki dismissed the claims and said he is a disinterested party. “I cannot disregard a court order to favour one side. They know Kamande obtained stay orders that have to be respected,” he said. “The differences between MCAs should not affect the running of the House. They should be solved legally.” Kariuki said 10 motions and bills await discussion once they resume sittings on May 22. They include proposed laws on waste management and establishment of cottage industries and ICT parks to create jobs for the youth. The MCAs went on recess on Tuesday to attend the County Assemblies Forum in Mombasa from Sunday until Friday. Kariuki urged MCAs to focus on their mandate and use Jubilee Party structures and the courts to settle their differences. Every leader must abide by the law and respect residents, he said. He said he is in talks with the party to reconcile the MCAs and forge unity so the assembly can carry out its functions without any hitch.