Residents living near the shores of Lake Baringo have been told to move to higher ground. The water levels are rising with ongoing rains and the lake has no outlet. Water Safety International chairman Joshua Chepsergon yesterday said the water might overflow, causing deaths and damage to property. “Water levels have increased, so if the rains persist, there could be destruction,” Chepsergon said.Tourists are staying away, he added. On Saturday night a storm destroyed fishermen’s boats and they incurred losses of Sh20,000. “Overflow occurred in 2004, when eight people were killed on the spot. We are asking residents to be cautious,” Chepsergon said. Lake Baringo Club, Soi Safari Lodge and Tumbili Hotel were flooded then. Those asked to move are residents in Kampi ya Samaki, Akoroyan, Simatiay, Kokwo and Palmolok Islands. Schools around the lake are at risk of major flooding. They include Loruk, Katuwit and Salabani primary and Ng’ambo Secondary schools. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula also warned residents to move. “People should take the early warnings seriously to flee,” he said. He warned people against crossing flooded rivers. Lake Baringo is the second largest lake in the Rift Valley after Lake Turkana. It is also a landmark heritage and tourist site. Other lakes in the county are Kamnarok and Bogoria. Lake Baringo has been short of fish since 2016, forcing fish mongers to find other work. Talaa Chepkong’a, 55, is no longer able to feed her family or pay her children’s school fees. She is among more than 300 fishmongers, mostly women, threatened by the fish shortage. Baringo Fisheries director Dickson Ongwai attributed the scarcity to pollution, climate change and the sudden growth of water hyacinth that covers as much as 40 percent of the lake. “Stubborn water hyacinth weed has emerged since last year,” he said.Although the county cleared some of the rapidly growing weed, more needs to be done to eradicate it and control human waste pollution in the lake.