Adult delinquency. There is no other way to describe the brute force used to silence the Nairobi Central Business District Association chairman, Timothy Muriuki, as he was about to express his opinion concerning the sorry state of Nairobi county, and how it can be fixed. As though choreographed, a similar assault was averted in another part of the city that had targeted the Bunge la Wananchi chairman Henry Shitanda, who was voicing similar concerns.Ironically, these two attacks took place in the same week the World celebrates the fundamental principles of press freedom. May 3 is a day proclaimed by the UN General Assembly to remind governments of their duty to respect and uphold the right to freedom of expression enshrined under Article 19 of the 1947 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.April 30 was the day the NCBDA chairman was transposed into a world known as the State of Nature. Thomas Hobbes, a renowned political philosopher, described this world as short, nasty and brutish. In this state, peaceful cooperation is impossible. It is a world where men violently compete to secure the basic necessities of life and material gains; where men fight each other out of fear that they will be challenged; and where men attack first when they perceive someone as a threat.In this state, nothing is unjust. There are no notions of right and wrong, justice or injustice. The result is anarchy. And that is how Muriuki was turned into a human piñata.What many of us remember of this assault was the ferocity with which the planned press conference was disrupted. Sheer force over finesse. What we glossed over, however, was that this was censorship in its most rudimentary form. The thought police were in town.With the rise in use of the social media, there has been a vast expansion of free speech. This virtual space has accorded us a global marketplace where ideas are shared, debated and sometimes debunked. However, with it a dangerous ethos has pervaded: That of an outrage culture. If we do not like or agree with what we read or see online, we become the prosecutor, judge and executioner, all in one. We lose all manner of filters. Our reactions are no longer nuanced or subtle. They are indelicate, impolite and callous.And this outrage culture is evolving from virtual to physical. Has the expanded freedom of expression made us more intolerant? Or is it the anonymity with which we enact our verdicts with a single click that has numbed our inhibitors? Whatever the case, we are being coercively subjected to reverse censorship.But is it possible to disagree without being disagreeable? Absolutely. It is one of the hallmarks of having emotional intelligence. The theory of emotional intelligence as advanced by Prof Peter Salovey is the skill with which you perceive, express, reason and manage your own and others’ emotions; and the ability to use this information as a guide to your thoughts and behavior.  A free and progressive society is one that is able to harness its emotional intelligence to persuade people to adopt or appreciate alternative viewpoints. In the absence of this, the only other recourse is violence or coercion by any means possible.Freedom of expression matters because it promotes human progress. Take the case of slavery. Defenders of slavery used legal and illegal means to stem the tide of anti-slavery sentiments. This included curtailing the ability to speak against the practice of slavery. But the abolitionists kept pushing more forcefully. Elijah Parish Lovejoy was a leading abolitionist Presbyterian clergyman. He founded a newspaper called the St Louis Observer, which he used to speak out against the evils of slavery. He was murdered in 1837, while unsuccessfully attempting to stop an angry mob of slavery defenders from destroying his printing press.Recently, we hailed a hero we laid to rest for his role as a great crusader of advocating for multiparty democracy in this country. Similar to Elijah Parish, Kenneth Matiba also lost his wealth and health to defenders of a single-party rule. Today, the world enjoys freedom from slavery, and Kenya enjoys the multiparty space because of defiance to restriction of speech by men such as these.There is growing literature that shows the symbiotic relationship between economic development and free speech, where the populace is informed without bias or intimidation. A World Bank study in 2014 found countries in Sub-Saharan Africa that maintained higher levels of press freedoms were at a lower risk of political instability. The study found free speech reduces information asymmetry, and that closing the information gap between authorities and the masses, incentivises those in public office to act in the interests of the people. This in turn creates a process of checks and balances that holds accountable those in public office. Inevitably, this curbs extractive rent seeking and other exploitative practices.Pippa Norris in her 2002 Democratic Phoenix observes that countries that do not interfere with freedom of expression are less corrupt, practice more administrative efficiency, respect the rule of law and have an overall politically stable environment — all of which lead to improved human and economic development.As political economist John Stuart Mills once said, free dissemination of ideas creates a social process in which truth competes, and eventually wins out over falsehoods. This process should be treated with respect, never dismissed without thought or reason, and should never be feared.And finally, the true test of leadership is not the number of people coerced into submission or intimidated into silence. It is how far people will follow the leader out of their own free will because they are attracted to his leadership style.When free speech is silenced, the pursuit of ignorance by design begins. That is why smart leaders respect freedom of expression, especially when, it causes them discomfort.I submit, therefore, that we should quickly put the censorship genie back in the bottle.If two people agree on everything, one of them is unnecessary – Ruth Graham Bell  Mugwe is a political economist