The public has seven days to make submissions on proposed position changes in opposition chief Raila Odinga’s ODM. Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung’u in a gazette notice published on Friday asked members of the public to submit any concerns they have. “Any person with written submission concerning the intended change by the political party shall within seven days from the date herein, deposit them with the Registrar of Political Parties,” Ndung’u said. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma – who unsuccessfully contested for ODM ticket for Busia governor –  has been replaced by Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong’era. Details: Raila proposes three-tier government to enhance devolution Ong’era previously served as the CEO of the party. Former Voi MP Thomas Mwadeghu will  fill the vice chairman position left vacant by Eldas MP Adan Keynan. Keynan was elected on the Jubilee ticket in the August 2017 General Election and retained his position in the Parliamentary Service Commission,  while Mwadegu  lost his bid to become the Taita Taveta governor. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga replaces Mwadegu as secretary  for parliamentary affairs (National Assembly) while the newlly-appointed Senate Minority leader and Siaya Senator James Orengo is the new secretary in charge of Senate affairs. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani  and Busia Woman Representative Florence Mutua will both deputise Edwin Sifuna – the secretary general. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya has been appointed organising secretary taking over from former Makadara MP Reuben Ndolo who has since defected to Jubilee. Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris replaces former Taita Taveta county Woman Representative Joyce Lay. Lay joined Jubilee Party  in the run up to the last election and unsuccessfully vied for the Taita  Taveta Senate seat. Halima Daro replaces Edin Wario as the secretary for special interest groups, while Nixon Kariri and Steve Mbogo replace nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura and Noah Akala as the secretaries for disability affairs  and science and technology respectively. Akala takes over as the deputy director of campaigns, while Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori and his Shinyalu counterpart Justus Kizito replace Grace Mboja and Sirisia MP John Waluke as special programmes and social welfare and national security respectively. Read also: NASA won't split after handshake - Busia ODM women Click here for the latest political news