With the long rains here, the planting season is in full swing. Many farmers believe that as long as there is adequate rain, there will be a good harvest. This is true to a certain extent, but many areas in Kenya capable of producing 30-40 bags of maize per acre are receiving very poor yields of only 10-12 bags, largely due to poor planting practices. “The initial and vital step is understanding the soil. Soil profile varies in different parts of the country. This plays a key role in increasing productivity together with adoption of appropriate technology for land preparation,” said Fergus Robley, general manager of FMD, the Massey Ferguson distributor in Kenya. For a good yield, the choice of seed is very important. In rural farming areas, many farmers still plant traditional maize varieties that give very low yields instead of certified, or hybrid seeds. Though considered expensive, seed maize is produced in a special way that helps to produce high yields when planted only once. After the soil has been prepared and the farmer has the right seeds, the method of planting is another determinant to increasing yields to boost a crop. The seeds have to be planted at the correct depth and spacing to achieve the optimum plant population for maximum returns. Seed companies are ready to advise farmers on the right spacing for their seeds. Fergus Robley added, “For larger acreage using mechanised planting, proper calibration of the planter is vital for the right spacing. Most seed maize varieties should be planted 76cm between rows and 18-23cm gaps between the seeds, but the seed companies share the specific spacing required for each variety with farmers. If the plants are too close, they fail to receive sufficient nutrients, which causes stunting. Well-spaced seedlings grow faster as they compete for light and their canopy discourages the growth of weeds.” FERTILISER PLACEMENT “Once the plant population is set correctly, fertiliser placement is key and this is best done at the time of planting. The rate of application has to be adjusted on the planter so that the seed is inserted one and a half inches below the soil with the fertiliser half an inch beneath the seed for maximum effect. If put in the same hole, the shoot is likely to be burnt by the fertiliser and the yield will be compromised,” Robley says. “The Massey Fergurson 9108 planter plants row crops like maize, beans, soya, sunflowers, cotton, sorghum and peanuts. It opens a trench, singulates and drops seeds at an intended spacing and depth and closes the trench. It has 28 different seed plates to plant six, or eight rows of crops, which provide an outstanding seed placement in conditions that range from conventional through to no-till seeding. It is also engineered to handle a wide variety of optional tillage and fertiliser attachments. “Contrary to common practice, intercropping is discouraged, as it produces poor yields of both crops. Instead, it is advisable to rotate crops. Maize is a heavy feeder, which means it extracts a lot of nutrients from the soil, especially nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Crop rotation with legumes, such as beans and peas, helps replenish vital nutrients, such as nitrogen, into the soil. “When using planters, it is important to control speed. Planting should be achieved at a steady speed of four to five kilometres per hour. If it is done too fast, the seeds get chipped and will not germinate. It is good practice to use graphite powder as a lubricant to reduce damage to the seeds. “The presence of the farmer, or the farm manager, is crucial during planting time to check that the work is carried out correctly. Decisions on the quality of seeds, fertiliser application, spacing, calibration of equipment and planting speed are key to achieving good output and should not be left to the farmhand, or tractor driver,” Robley concluded.