Former Transport CS Michael Kamau yesterday appeared before the Anti- Corruption Court over fraud allegations. But he failed to take a plea in the Sh33 million road tender graft case. Kamau had been summoned to court to answer fresh charges of abuse of office in relation to the Kamukunywa-Kaaptama-Kapsokwony-Sirisia road project in Bungoma. It led to the loss of the public funds. Read : EACC raids ex-CS Michael Kamau's home over Sh33 million tender When he turned up accompanied by his lawyer Nelson Havi, Kamau told Milimani chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti he has filed an application to quash the charges, and the court ought to wait for the ruling. Havi said the charges against Kamau were previously terminated by the Court of Appeal. The lawyer said the prosecution’s move to reopen the case is an abuse of the court process and amounts to intimidation.  UNFAIR? The court heard that the current charge sheet against Kamau and his two co-accused persons is reciprocal of the earlier charge, but the difference in the current charge is that five of his former accused persons have been omitted. Havi said Kamau will not be accorded a fair trial if he is prosecuted twice for an offence allegedly committed 10 years ago. He said his client has a right not to be tried for an offence in which he has previously been acquitted or convicted. “I urged the court to dismiss the charges against Kamau to entirety or adjourn this matter pending the outcome of the appeal filed,” Havi said. But the prosecution, led by Assistant DPP Fredrick Ashimosi and Alloys Kemo, opposed the application and urged the court to order he faces trial. The duo said the fresh charges were properly instituted by their boss Noordin Haji. Ashimosi said there is no extract of an order from the Court of Appeal that acquitted Kamau of the graft charges. The prosecution said the decision to charge Kamau was made following the reconstitution of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Also read : Ex-Transport CS Michael Kamau fails to take plea in Sh33m tender case In July last year, the Court of Appeal terminated the earlier case on grounds the EACC was not properly constituted at the time the probe against Kamau was launched. The DPP said the Appeal court only discharged Kamau, but did not order for his acquittal. The court will rule on June 14 on whether to dismiss the case or order Kamau to plead to the charges. Kamau is expected to face two charges of wilful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds and abuse of office. The charges stated that as a person responsible for management of public revenue, he irregularly allowed a resident engineer to redesign the same road. Click here for the latest political news 