Is it political or spiritual prophesy? Word has it that a Jubilee legislator has a burning message he believes is out of spiritual inspiration to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka (pictured). Our mole has told Corridors the MP, once a staunch defender of ODM leader Raila Odinga before dumping him ahead of the August 2017 polls, was overheard telling a Wiper legislator that Kalonzo is God’s anointed leader for presidency in 2022. It’s said the JP lawmaker’s divine message to Kalonzo is to return to God as before and pray for his utmost dream of leading Kenya. Our mole says the MP said he was only God’s conveyor-belt and instructed the Wiper MP to deliver the message to Kalonzo on grounds his divine messages have never failed him. ***** Word has it that a titanic court battle will soon unfold over one of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four agenda — building one million affordable housing units. Corridors has been told the battle involves real owners of a piece of land and a Nairobi tycoon. It is said the tycoon has been keen to defraud the owners of their land by presenting questionable documents to enter into a public-private partnership with the government to put up thousands of housing units on the land off Thika Superhighway near Githurai. Our mole tells Corridors the tycoon’s anticipated lucrative deal with the government collapsed following discovery his documents were not genuine. ***** The ongoing wrangling over 2022 succession politics between DP William Ruto and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi seem to have not only split Rift Valley, but also the lukewarm Northeastern region. Our mole has told Corridors Northeastern leaders are so divided on who to back between Ruto and Gideon to remain in government after the 2022 election. Word has it some Northeastern leaders plan a vicious revolt against National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, a Ruto confidant, for taking them for a ride. It is said the leaders won’t allow Duale to coerce them into supporting Ruto because most of them have not been benefitting from his lucrative business deals with the DP. ***** Word has it that politicians and brokers have been in a prowl extorting parties entangled in two land disputes in Karen and near Nairobi Hospital. It is said while a lawyer has been paying individuals to influence the outcome, none of those involved in the saga has presented landownership documents. What remains as a mystery is the person in possession of title deeds of the two property left behind by a deceased owner. Questions are also raised on the identity of a powerful person behind the land-grabbing cartel involved in the Karen parcel and the piece near Nairobi Hospital. Click here for the latest political news