Medics who left a needle in a teenage mother’s birth canal after a delivery have been condemned by the Bungoma governor’s wife. Caroline Wangamati on Thursday said it was inhumane for Macklin Amunga, 18, to have to live in pain for 13 days after giving birth. “Hospitals are supposed to have proper services, more so for mothers. Such cases may scare away pregnant women,” she said. Mistakes do happen, she said, “but when dealing with human life, doctors and health workers should be cautious,” the governor’s wife said. She urged healthcare workers to avoid a repeat of Amunga’s horror. Amunga gave birth at Bulondo Dispensary on May 10. An episiotomy was carried out to widen the birth canal. She delivered, but during the repair stitching a needle was left inside her. This resulted in a lot of pain and she was transferred to the Bungoma Referral Hospital. An X-ray showed a needle was stuck in her genitals. The medics at the institution did not remove the needle because the necessary devices at the operating theatre were said to be out of order. However, the following day, after the Star ran the story, the needle left in her birth canal was removed. Macklin Amunga’s mother Selpher Otenyo said doctors hurriedly took her daughter to the theatre after the news went viral. “For a doctor to get a needle left in one’s body is a tough job that needs a machine to identify the needle because if they remove it manually the mother might be in great pain,” Caroline said. The governor’s wife said she visited Amunga and her baby and they were feeling better. She praised the doctors for removing the needle. Amunga and her newborn baby girl are safe and may be discharged soon. The family says it will seek compensation. The governor’s wife said the lack of treatment was cruel and exposed the severe dangers women go through during delivery. She spoke at Kabula pastoral centre in Bumula constituency, where she attended a workshop to train 45 ward administrators on the Linda Mama programme. Linda Mama trains women on the importance of safe delivery in hospitals and attending prenatal and postnatal clinics.  protecting mothers Ward administrators work with expectant mothers in the rural areas. They are trained to educate women on the importance of safe deliveries. Caroline appealed to residents to donate blood because half of Bungoma mothers who die in childbirth, succumb to loss of blood.