President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced a 5 per cent rise in the minimum wage during this years labour day. Labour CS Ukur Yatani who read the speech on behalf of President Uhuru Kenyatta also urged unions in the country to engage in dialogue before calling for strikes. "In recognition of the good work done by the workers and cognisant of the rate of inflation of 4.8 percent this year, I hereby declare a 5 per cent increase of minimum wage with immediate effect," Yattani said. COTU secretary general Francis Atwoli in his address earlier blamed many companies that had not implemented last year's 18 per cent wage increase. "There are some companies that are yet to implement this directive. This is making it hard for the workers to have a better living, " Atwoli said Atwoli also said trade unions will continue to block legal amendments seeking to bar government officials who provide essential services from participating in strikes. The government is proposing miscellaneous amendments to the Labour Relations Act, for workers in healthcare, water, sanitation, electricity and telecommunication services sectors to continue reporting to work during strikes. The proposal also covers fuel distributors, meteorologists, providers of air navigational services, port workers and firefighters. The government is seeking to slap a Sh500,000 fine, with the alternative of three-months in imprison, on union officials, should the strikes they call disrupt the provision of essential services. Read: Trade unions, ministry clash over amendments to labour laws Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said workers are opposed to the changes. "The Constitution does not segregate. It does not say 'a worker from essential services'. That was the language in colonial archaic labour laws [that was meant] to deny workers the right to join organisations of their choices. Read: Raila announces end of civil disobedience, product boycott Also read;30% wage hike would have killed Kenya’s tea industry  Click here for the latest political news   