President Uhuru Kenyatta will use the State of the Nation address to unveil plans focused on the “Big Four Agenda” and jump-start drastic constitutional reforms. It is expected that Uhuru – Kenya’s fourth president, in his May 2 speech, will request Kenyans for support during the four-year-reign to deliver his constitutional mandate. "What we can say, though, is that the Constitution requires him to address the nation, through an appearance in Parliament, to speak on the three issues I have raised, and to share his views on the long-term shaping and reimaging of our country," State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said. The president will address the nation at Parliament with members the Senate and National Assembly present. "This address — to the joint sitting of Parliament — is in terms of measures the President has taken and the progress achieved in the realisation of national values; progress made in fulfilling Kenya’s international obligation; and the state of our nation’s security," Manoah said. Unlike the previous instance where the opposition MPs heckled Uhuru, the joint sitting of both the Senate and the National Assembly of the current parliament is expected to embrace Uhuru after his handshake with NASA leader Raila Odinga. The handshake on March 9 at Harambee House was meant to cease political hostility between Uhuru and Raila supporters after the disputed 2017 polls. The two have unveiled a 14-member team to jumpstart constitutional reforms as well as steer talks towards ending historical and electoral injustices. The proposals by Lawyer Paul Mwangi for Raila and Ambassador Martin Kimani for Uhuru is to revisit the Bomas draft with a view to restructuring the three arms of the government - the Executive, Legislature, and the Judiciary. "A number of journalists have been asking what the President will say, but clearly we all have to wait to hear what the President will say," Manoah said. The Star established the President will announce changes in the country’s foreign policy, development in the security sector, and outline the progress of the government development plans in the next four years. Uhuru, serving the second term, will unveil plans to raise the manufacturing sector from nine to 15 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP), expand food production and supply, provide universal health coverage for all Kenyan homes and build 500,000 affordable houses as part of his Big Four Agenda. "If you look closely at the Big four agenda you will find that Uhuru wants to directly improve the lives of Kenyans by ensuring they can easily access the basic needs," a source in government said. He will unveil colossal plans to enhance service delivery in the public sector and read the riot act to corrupt cartels. Click here for the latest political news