Greensharks sprung to the top of the Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League after thumping Nakuru Hockey Club 3-0 yesterday at City Park. Victory over the visiting Nakuru side steered Sharks to 16 points—one ahead of Police, who were not in action over the weekend. The Ben Owaga-coached side, who have laid their intentions of dethroning Police, taught Nakuru Club bitter lessons from onset with their well mustered art in short passes. Unlike their opponents who train on natural surfaces, their experience on turf was an added advantage in keeping possession as Nakuru struggled to keep the ball rolling. Nakuru’s back-line endured torrid moments in containing Sharks’ talisman Chris Wokila, who was a constant menace his dribbles alongside Victor Osiche. After flapping many open chances, Ben Ochieng gave Sharks the opening goal in the ninth minute after picking Leone Magomere’s defence splitting pass to sound the boards. Kevin Simiyu curled in the second goal in the 19th minute after a superb exchange with Osiche in the box. Minutes later, Sharks had the chance to make it 3-0 through a flick kick awarded after Collins Cheloti intercepted a goal bound shot using his limbs. Wokila stepped up to send the ball past Nakuru shot stopper Dennis Mageto from the spot. Nakuru returned to the second half an improved side but still hardly shook Sharks well organised defence. Their first chance of the game came in the 46th minute through Nelson Ochieng, who failed to beat Sharks custodian Alexander Muge on a one-on-one situation. The chance wasted was severely punished by Osiche, who drove home the third goal with seconds to spare to aid his team pick three points as well as maintain their unbeaten run. Sharks’ coach Owaga praised his charges for playing according to his instructions. “We agreed to take each game at a time and I am happy the boys have followed my advice. We are happy to go to the top of the standings and our aim now maintain the position till the season ends.” His Nakuru counterpart, Anthony Agesa partially blamed their inexperience to play on turf. Meanwhile in the national men’s league, Karate Axiom surrendered an early lead to play to a 1-1 all draw with Parkroad Tigers. Jared Rasugu had put Axiomahead in the 17 th minute but Brovin Omondi equalised in the 32nd minute.