All over the world, constitutions are written to provide the fundamental law for governing society. Key to the issues such constitutions deal with is the issue of how society is to be governed. In other words, who governs, when and how. Other issues they consider are to do with the values of society, how resources are used, shared and distributed and the role of the state as a sovereign entity in international affairs. But constitutions are never cast in stone: They are changeable. Thus the manner in which they are changed, by who and when are also usually stated so that the people who are subject to such constitutions do not feel caged in a political relationship that may act against their interests due to the manner in which their constitution ‘was once written’. Constitutions, however, can also be changed maliciously, if there are no safeguards against such malice. We have seen since the independence of most African countries, for example, constitutions being changed or completely torn asunder by dictatorial regimes that have made Africa the global laughing stock in bad governance. Since 1990, however, with the popular resurgence of democratic governance globally, many African countries have embraced democratic constitutions that have strong provisions against changes that may reverse democratic gains. The African Union has even gone further: It has decreed against recognition of any government established after a military coup d’état on the continent. It has also set up continental institutions that are aimed at guiding democratic governance, promoting debates on constitutions and benchmarking intra-African governance within the context of the Africa Peer Review Mechanism. Given the African experience in popular struggles for democratic change and the institutionalisation of democracy, Kenya has often been regarded as a model worth emulating in terms of the quality of her Constitution and the high standards and values it has set for democratic governance. In actualising democracy, however, Kenya has not only disappointed herself but her African and global admirers as well. In this regard, particular attention has to be paid to the inept manner in which Kenya has managed periodic changes in government through democratic elections. Elections, particularly presidential, have been ineptly run, leading to controversial results accompanied by violent state repression of those who have questioned the results. The 2007 presidential election, held before the enactment of the 2010 Constitution, will go down in history as the worst in terms of mismanagement, loss of life and near total breakdown in the ability of the government to rule legitimately based on election results. The last year’s elections, which should have benefited from the democratic procedures enshrined in the Constitution, abused almost every aspect of those procedures, and landed the country into a culture of deep social fissures, a violent political culture and a doubtful future as a united nation. Some of us, who have been involved in the democratic struggle for close to four decades, strongly feel Kenya cannot go on like this. As I have argued in this column recently, only insects and animals keep on doing the same thing everyday, even when it becomes crystal clear such repetitive actions can harm them irreparably. Human beings are capable of conceiving different ways of achieving their objectives, hence, the discovery of labour-saving devices called machines, and the invention of the computer to solve problems much faster than us. Hence, if an elected executive presidency is a problem in our constitutional governance and those of many other developing societies,we should re-look at the constitutional provisions which provided for it and make some adjustments. My proposal is that we have a parliamentary system of government as both India and Malaysia have. This system has served them very well and, being a multiple-ethnic and multiple-cultural society like these two societies, we are very likely to harvest the same developmental fruits that they have harvested when we take the same political route. It is very unfortunate that when we make this proposal, we hear voices that simply give ultimata to us with the words: “We shall resist anybody who tries to even change a word in the present Constitution.” This is absolutely the wrong way to approach debates on our present supreme law since it provides every Kenyan citizen the right to propose at any time amendments that may be deemed fit to improve its service to the Kenyan people. Warning and threatening Kenyans proposing constitutional amendments is wrong, unconstitutional and demagogic. Let us allow debates to occur in a sober manner so as to have a better Kenya. What we have is no doubt a good Constitution. But changes to those aspects of it which can make for a better Kenya will make it even better. In the spirit of the now-famous handshake, let us all embrace dialogue rather than grandstanding and political brinkmanship. There are two ways of amending our Constitution — Parliament and through a referendum. Issues that touch on the structure of government and the basic national values must be subjected to the latter option. I will not bore you here with chapter and verse where these issues are to be found. Suffice it to say that I am here dealing with the broad principles we must bear in mind when talking about constitutional reform. Obviously, Kenyans will not be unanimous about proposed amendments: These are debatable, hence the debate. But the banal hostility to amendment debates based on limiting such debates to preserving the status quo so as not to change the framework for political competition in 2022 needs to be avoided. Whoever may have the ambition to ascend to political office in 2022 under the present constitutional framework will, naturally, tend to oppose any tinkering with the structure of the Executive. This is understandable. But having understood such sentiments, the public has no reason to avoid debating amendments which, in the long run, will serve the public good. Recently, the Right Honourable Raila Odinga suggested the structure of devolution should be reviewed to re-look at the Bomas Draft proposal of having 18 regional governments. He went further to say counties will, however, be preserved as units within the regions. I would myself go further and propose we have a Federal Government in Kenya with 18 states, each headed by a governor. The units within the states would then be, in a descending order, counties, wards and villages or precincts. The United States, a federal system of government, is structured like that. We will then go further and assign the states all the functions that the counties are currently performing, and these would be systematically devolved to the counties, wards and villages under laws passed by the state legislatures. The states will have much more financial muscle than the present counties. The other alternative is to go federal by transforming the present counties into states. We need to soberly debate these two options.  