For historians who study the post-colonial or post-Independence period, soon they will also have to contend with the ‘post-handshake period’. Despite all the current uncertainty in regards to the mechanics of it, many (myself included) will be hopeful the post-handshake era will mark the beginnings of a turning point for Kenya. Many Kenyans heaved a collective sigh of relief on March 9, when President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga took to the steps of Harambee House to symbolically bring an end months of electoral hostilities. Not necessarily because we were under some illusion that the handshake would immediately improve our lot, or miraculously transform our nation into a land of milk and honey, but because we have become too accustomed to the loss of life and property around political processes. The country was seemingly in the midst of a political stalemate, with no discernible solution in sight. I recall writing in these pages soon after Jamhuri Day last year that I had never seen nor imagined a Kenya so deeply divided. Yet, divided we were, with positions from both sides of the political divide hardening with every passing day. In the throes of such deep-rooted division, with emotions running high, even the most sober-minded amongst us found our vision a little clouded, unwilling or unable to reason as we normally might. As unexpected as the handshake may have been to many, it presents a unique opportunity. With the benefit of hindsight, and a measure of sobriety, it is clear this may present an opportunity for us to begin necessary, and potentially difficult national discussions, with a view to exorcising our demons, once and for all. Surely, we cannot revert to hostilities every electoral cycle! In his State of the Nation address, President Uhuru struck a positive and encouraging tone. In his remarks, he asked that Kenyans forgive one another for “…the words, for the anger, and malice” that were commonplace during the campaign period. Furthermore, he recognised the role Raila played in arriving at the decision to reconcile, and acknowledged the fact that all too often our politics is characterised by violence, with the leaders actively “…manipulating our ethnicities to seize power, and exploiting it to avoid accountability”. While these words are reassuring, it is the actions accompanying these words that will ultimately determine the extent to which the country can begin to walk a path of genuine healing and reconciliation. Over the last few days, an initiative to begin this hard work was announced, complete with the unveiling of a 14-member committee. Comprised of persons appointed by President Uhuru and Raila, it must be remembered there are numerous Kenyans beyond those two political formations, and that “…no one is more Kenyan than his brother or sister…and all deserve to be heard,” as stated by the President during his address. That being said, to the Building Bridges Initiative, we can and must wish them God speed! The country desperately needs them to succeed where we have failed so many times before. It would be prudent for them to publicise their terms of reference at the earliest opportunity to give Kenyans an opportunity to buy into the initiative, as well as to hold both leaders and their teams accountable. It must also be acknowledged that there are those who view the handshake with skepticism, and they are well within their rights to do so. Indeed, as they argue, true reconciliation is not about two people, nor does the handshake resolve all our problems. While this may be true, it must also be recognised that it is an important first step towards addressing the deep-seated wounds and historical injustices that serve to divide us during every electoral cycle. We should not be naïve enough to imagine the handshake will be a panacea for all that ails us, and the cycle of attendant bigotry and violence that besets every electoral process. By the same token, it would be foolhardy not to embrace the opportunity that the handshake represents: To honestly reflect and examine where the rain began beating us and begin working together. Personally, I choose to give the handshake a chance, to imagine and actively pursue a post-handshake Kenya, where we may not all belong to the same side of the political divide, the same ethnic group, or social class; where we will likely not agree on all issues; but will all jealously defend and ferociously pursue the stability and unity of our great nation.    