The Ethics and
Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) has been sidelined from the probe into the new National Youth Service NYS scandal. EACC's exclusion
from the multi-agency team's probe of a corruption case has raised
questions as to whether other investigative agencies have confidence
in the anti-graft watchdog. The multi-agency
team probing the loss of Sh9 billion at the NYS has representatives
from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI), National
Intelligence Service (NIS), Assets Recovery Authority (ARA),
Financial Reporting Centre (FRC), Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and
the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). EACC CEO Halakhe
Waqo and his deputy Michael Mubea did not respond to our calls. But an EACC worker
privy to the situation told the Star that the anti-graft watchdog has
opted to steer clear of the probe, arguing that the DCI and other
agencies have already walked far into investigations. “By the time the
issue came into the public domain, the DCI was already knee deep into
investigations. The EACC saw that there was no need to take over, and
decided to let the DCI continue with investigations,” our source
said. DPP Noordin Haji
yesterday confirmed in an interview with the Sunday Nation that the
multi-agency team is nearing completion of its probe. He added that
several people, including senior NYS officials, will be charged in
court “soon”. The multi-agency
team is looking into how some top NYS officials used ghost firms to
benefit from supplies deals. In some instances,
no products were supplied, while in others double, triple and even
quadruple payments were made for a single contract. EACC's exclusion has
also brought into focus fears that the anti-graft watchdog has been
targeted for termination. Jubilee Majority
Leader Aden Duale last month tabled the the Statute Law
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2018 in Parliament. The proposed bill
has sought to strike the EACC out of the list of investigative
agencies recognised by the DPP's office. In the past, the
EACC has not shied away from starting separate investigations, even
when other agencies have had ongoing probes. The anti-graft
agency has been struggling to gain full public support, owing to its
low conviction rate. Figures from the
EACC’s 2017 annual report of activies only recorded a 0.44 per cent
success rate in recovery of public funds and assets. The anti-graft
watchdog recovered Sh256 million our of a possible Sh57.1 billion in
the fiscal year ending June, 2017. EACC also managed to get 17
convictions in various graft-related cases it instituted. In the previous
financial year, EACC had managed to recover Sh700 million out of a
possible 93.3 billion. It however suffered
a huge setback in July last year after the Court of Appeal ruled that
any cases that were instituted when the EACC did not have at least a
third of its commissioners in office. The ruling followed
a petition by former Transport minister Michael Kamau and ex-Lands
minister Charity Ngilu who argued that they were charged at a time
that the EACC did not have a quorum of commissioners. The Court of Appeal
decision saw 125 public officials suspected of graft walk free.