Defective dams in Baringo county will be emptied to prevent more deaths, Water CS Chelugui has said. Five people were killed and at least 10,000 displaced after four dams overflowed and Lake Baringo burst its banks. Four dams, Chepelow, Kapnus, Kachaptuya and Lokidich in Churo-Amaya ward in Tiaty overflowed on Saturday. Two women perished. In Kolowa, one person and two camels were swept away, area MCA Solomon Makal said. Two other people drowned when the swollen Lake Baringo flooded on Friday owing to heavy rain. Chelugui urged residents living in low-lying areas to move. He spoke yesterday at Churo-Amaya. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa arrived in the area yesterday to inspect the dams. Churo-Amaya ward representative Ameja Zelemoi said four schools, Chepelow, Tepelekwo, Kaptuya and Kacheptuya were flooded. Chelugui flanked by Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis said the national government will assist the county to renovate damaged dams after rain subsides. Kiptis blamed poor workmanship for the broken dams. He told contractors to do due diligence before picking contractors. “It is unfortunate
that the dams we expected to alleviate water problems are already ruined,”
Kiptis said. The death toll in Baringo has climbed to 11 since torrential rain began in April. The Meteorological Department predicted the downpour may persist to next month. The weatherman has however
indicated that the rains might persist until late in June. Two more people reportedly drowned while over
6,000 including school children were displaced after Lake Baringo broke its
banks on Friday. Five schools Sintaan, Lorobil, Leswa, Ng’ambo
primary and Ng’ambo secondary were flooded after the lake got swollen owing to
heavy rain. Resident Benson Sauroki said their farms and
houses were flooded, but no one was injured during the Friday morning incident. The Kenya Red Cross Society has pitched tents at
Sintaan Health Centre. At least 300 displaced families are sheltering at the
clinic. Lake Baringo, without single outlet is second
largest lake in the Rift Valley after Lake Turkana. Others on the spot are Lake
94, Kamnarok and Lake Bogoria. Water levels are rising. Marigat-based human rights activist Amos Olempaka
said over 1000 schoolchildren are among the displaced. He appealed to the national government to release
part of the Sh2 billion disaster budgets to resettle, shelter and feed flood
victims, calling on well-wishers also to intervene Olempaka said 800 Ilchamus displaced at Mukutani
by bandit attacks in March last year are also suffering. The IDPs are staying
at a camp in Eldume, Marigat, in worn-out tents. Little disaster funds However, Baringo County government indicated too little
disaster funds to gather for the emergencies. ‘Sorry the budget is too small to gather for the displaced
people and even buy them tents’ Baringo County Deputy Governor Jacob Chepkwony
said. He said they cannot
help now because we only have a string budget of sh25million as the total
budget to gather for drought, floods and water scarcity. He therefore appeals to
the emergency response partners   like
National Drought Management Authority (NDMA) and Kenya Red-cross to intervene
and help donate tents for the IDPs. Ends On his side, Baringo
County Commissioner Henry Wafula called upon the county government to utilize
the disaster funds to help donate food and shelter to the insecurity victims. He assured that the
National government issuance of relief foodstuff is underway. “I have already written
to the department of special programme notifying the dire hunger situation in
the county” Said Wafula. He further cautioned
the residents of imminent damages owing to heavy rains, appealing to the people
living in lower areas to move to higher grounds.