There is light at the end of the tunnel for relegation-threatened Nakumatt as they moved out of the bottom of the SportPesa Premier League table following a thrilling 2-1 win over ten time league winners Tusker. Nakumatt have endured a miserable year on and off the pitch but have enjoyed some respite in recent weeks. Against Robert Matano’s brewers, they were expected to suffer another dent in their quest to remain among the elite. But against all expectations, the basement club took the lead inside the opening ten minutes with Kelvin Thairu curling in an unstoppable shot past David okelo after being picked out by Moses Dube Odhiambo. Once they had the bite between their teeth, there was no letting go for Nakumatt. Boniface Mukhekhe should have made sure of that when he read a soft back-pass by Marlon Tangauzi but shot woefully wide with only Okello to beat. That miss was to prove costly moments later as a long ball forward was picked by Boniface Muchiri and with the Nakumatt defence in sixes and sevens he picked out Brian Osumba, who nervelessly drilled the ball beyond the despairing dive of Lucas indeche and into the right hand corner of the net. It looked inevitable from then on that the brewers would go on and win the match but it was Nakumatt who took the lead ten minutes after the break with Cornelius Juma applying the finishing touch from a Finas Jacob cross to hand Matano his first defeat on his return to Ruaraka. Nakumatt are now on 14 points two behind Zoo Kericho who occupy the last safety position following their 1-1 draw at home to Kariobangi Sharks. Free falling Sony Sugar are now bottom of the table after yet another home defeat, this time at the hands of new boys Vihiga United. Charles Okwemba and another John Wanda strike inflicted a ninth defeat on the 2006 league winners, who have 11 points and face the grim prospects of relegation unless their fortunes dramatically change for the better in the second half of the campaign. Posta Rangers title hopes took another hit despite picking a point in their goal-less draw away at Bandari. Mathare too were left ruing another missed opportunity in their bid to remain among the title contenders as they could only come away with a point from their trip to Kakamega Homeboyz as they played out a barren draw. It was the sixth successive match in which the slum boys had failed to win.