Four of the five men who were being sought by police for attacking former NCBDA chairman Timothy Muruiki were arrested on Tuesday. Police had released the photos of the men and placed a Sh2.5 million bounty on their heads; Sh500,000 on each. Police said the men were wanted for robbery with violence. Details: [VIDEO] CBD association ex-chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' Also read: My attackers won’t go scot-free, says Muriuki On Tuesday afternoon, EALA MP Simon Mbugua was arrested in connection with the incident on April 30 at Boulevard Hotel. The MP, who has previously been accused by MPs of meddling in City Hall affairs, was held briefly at the Central Police station for questioning. Nairobi DCI boss Ireri Kamwende said Mbugua was helping police with investigations into the attack. It was not clear whether what he may have told the police led to the arrest of the four individuals. The heavily built men disrupted a press conference called by Muriuki, roughed him up and threw him out of the venue. They claimed he was a con man hired to tarnish Governor Mike Sonko's name. Muriuki, however, said he had called the meeting to address the problems Nairobi business people face. More on this: Police offer Sh2.5m for arrest of men who attacked NCBDA ex-boss On April 14, Nairobi MCAs accused Mbugua of running the show at City Hall. They said Mbugua had taken over after Polycarp Igathe resigned as Deputy Governor. The latter left office on January 31. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko refuted the claims by MCAs that the EALA MP Simon Mbugua has been interfering with the city hall affairs. Sonko said he has not delegated duties to anyone adding that the MCAs are being used by some cartels undermine his leadership. "I have learned that some cartels have now started fighting back after I sealed all corruption loopholes at City Hall." "The few individuals who want to interfere with my leadership have now approached some MCAs and started engaging them in ill-motives," he said. Read: I'm not meddling in Nairobi county affairs, EALA MP Mbugua tells MCAs  Click here for the latest political news