STARRING: Robert Downey Jr, Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson, Benedict Cumberbatch, Don Cheadle, Tom Holland, Chadwick Boseman, Elizabeth Olsen BASED ON: The Avengers by Stan Lee & Jack Kirby RELEASE DATE: April 27  A couple of months ago, social media was abuzz on the screening of Black Panther. This time around, everyone seemed to be mad at each other for posting ‘spoilers’ about the new Avengers movie. I suppose the excitement is hardly containable when the beloved Marvel characters band together to try and save the planet. Emphasis on try… Having acquired Power Stone (as depicted in Thor: Ragnarok), Thanos continues his mission of collecting the remaining five Infinity Stones to become the most powerful being in the universe. He kills Thor’s brother Loki for the second stone and Thor barely manages to survive. Meanwhile, the Hulk, who was also with Thor and Loki, returns to earth and warns Dr Strange — guardian of another stone — about Thanos. Strange seeks help from Tony Stark. When Maw comes to earth to extract Strange’s stone for Thanos, he is unable to do so as Strange has put a curse on his amulet. Stark and Peter Parker end up on Maw’s spaceship, trying to save Strange. Meanwhile, Hulk contacts the other Avengers and they meet in London. They realise the only way to protect Vision (protector of the Mind Stone) is to have the stone extracted in Wakanda. Captain America, Black Widow, War Machine, Scarlet Witch and Vision all go to Wakanda, where T’Challa’s sister is tasked with removing the stone. Meanwhile, Thanos’ army invades Wakanda. Stark, Strange, Parker, Thor and The Guardians of the Galaxy also arrive in Wakanda, where the Battle ensues. A lot is happening at the same time in different parts of the Galaxy, so the story moves quite fast, but attention is key. The film is filled with humorous quips even in grave situations. To have such an epic group of Avengers and yet everything seems to fail, the film not only draws us in but successfully manages to leave us questioning “what’s going to happen next?”  Star Rating: 5/5