Sometime back, I saw a National Youth Service advert and asked my colleague what was its intention since it wasn’t announcing a recruitment. I found it a public relations exercise, and was concerned. Why so? The 2015 NYS scandal was preceded by those very adverts. A few months later, a damning revelation by the Sunday Nation of June 21, 2015 reported details emerging from the controversial payment of Sh826 million. It became the NYS graft scandal. The incompetence shown by some officials at the NYS and the Ministry of Devolution was shocking. Such was the attempt to delete payments from the IFMIS system without following procedures, which portrays the impunity with which state officials operate. The then CS, Anne Waiguru, admitted there was “an attempt to swindle Sh826 million”. Press forward to the Sunday of May 13: The Sunday Nation, again, broke the story the NYS had been hit by a new Sh10.5 billion scandal. According to the report, the money was allegedly siphoned in the last three years in a well-orchestrated scheme involving senior government officials and ghost suppliers. This was the same pattern the first NYS scam was carried out. Interestingly, the reaction to these two cases is the same. As soon as the NYS Scandal Season one broke, the opposition, lead by Raila Odinga, called for the resignation of CS Waiguru. She later resigned, citing doctor’s advice to take “lighter duties”. Again, after NYS season two, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi on Wednesday demanded the resignation of the named suspects. “All the officers around this issue must immediately step down to allow full investigation into the matter,” he said. Some politicians have called for the resignation of Health CS Sicily Kariuki, who was then the boss at Youth and Public Service. But as I said in 2015, I find the calls for suspension or the stepping down of the Cabinet Secretary misguided. This is informed by my take that we should no longer generalise corruption. There are officers within the system who facilitate these dirty deals. These are the people who should take immediate responsibility. In the case of the sale of the Kenya’s Embassy in Japan building, an officer approved that transaction. In the case of the Kazi Kwa Vijana, the Director and officers entrusted with that project were responsible for the rot that led to the collapse of that project. Many other officers in government have played a role in facilitating corruption. It is no longer enough that the Minister in charge or head of an institution takes the bullet or the blame for such individuals, who at times remain in the system to continue advancing corruption. This was the case at NYS. Those who planned and executed the looting in the first instance remained even after Waiguru left, and have in the same design stolen again. It is important to ensure every civil servant involved in corruption takes individual responsibility.  