The first time I set my foot on Swiss soil was on May 30. I was on my way to Dusseldorf, Germany. While at the airport, my palate and feet were itching. I wanted to walk out of the airport and straight into a Swiss restaurant to try local cuisine and also devour their chocolate. And of course, tour the place as well. Unfortunately that didn’t happen because I had a one-hour layover before my next flight. I was sad but not any more because I can literally have a taste of Switzerland in my city thanks to the Mövenpick hotels and residences. Located in Westlands, this new hotel is already shaking existing hotels because of what it’s offering the Kenyan hotel market.  HOME AWAY FROM HOME The hotel is the perfect definition of “home away from home”. The designers incorporated both Europe and African designs, with bamboo stalks acting as window panes at the entrance. Located along Mkungu lane, the hotel is mostly ideal for business travellers. It has 276 rooms, including 50 residences. They will be putting up studios, popularly known as bedsitters in Kenya. Incorporating the MICE concept, guests can opt to stay at the residences or the hotel. This aims to increase business visitors to the country by attracting high-end international hotel chains and investing in new conference facilities. The hotel has 14 conference rooms. Despite being located in an area full of restaurants offering different cuisines and a good nightlife, one of the restaurants at the topmost part of the hotel gives one the ultimate panoramic views of Nairobi. Known as The View, the rotating restaurant satisfies one’s eye with a breathtaking view as you feed your belly. It offers Swiss cuisine, and those dying to try Switzerland’s cheese fondue should make a reservation. Once seated, you can enjoy your sets of meals by looking at Mt Kilimambogo, Ngong Hills, the CBD and Karura forest. And you can’t achieve this by turning your head from one direction to another. All you have to do is sit down and let the view do it’s thing. It revolves every day from 12.30-3.30pm during the day and 6.30-11pm at night.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL LOVERS Other restaurants in the vicinity include Baluba, which offers local and international cuisine, and La Messa, which will offer Spanish cuisine. This will also be a win for sports lovers because it’s set to have big screens, allowing you to watch football matches as you enjoy a drink. If you’re a fan of cocktails, make sure you try the movenrock, which is usually served in a raw glass at Kijani bar. This drink, depending on what time you take it, gives you the ultimate oomph to kick-start your weekend. If you’re not into alcohol, try the Barramundi. And for those who can’t make up their minds, just tell the mixologist how you’re feeling and he’ll give you his own creation.  HUMBLE BEGINNINGS But how did the Mövenpick become a global brand? What people don’t know is that the hotel started out as a restaurant in 1948, when the founder saw seagull pick food in one of the streets in Zürich, hence the name mövenpick (möven = seagull and pick = to pick something). With over 30 hotels worldwide and six Nile cruises, the management decided to open the first branch in Kenya because of how our economy has grown over the years. They also wanted to bring a different twist in the country. So if you’re yearning to try a new cuisine or just learn a thing or two about Swiss culture, make your move to mövenpick, especially during the chocolate hour, which happens every day between 4pm and 5pm, and pick something like the seagull about Kenya’s little Switzerland.