Police in Kakamega are investigating Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and an MCA for allegedly inciting the public to violence. Oparanya and Sheywe MCA Joab Amukhale are accused of inciting the public against a family suspected of involvement in the kidnapping and killing of a nine-year-old girl in mid-March. Detectives at the Kakamega county DCI office said the two could be charged once investigations were complete. The detectives have obtained court orders to compel vernacular radio stations that aired the comments by the two leaders to supply them with certified audio and video clips for the investigation. The Star has an audio copy. Asked about the investigation yesterday, Oparanya told the Star, I am not aware.” The complaint was made by Salim Mohammed, who said Oparanya and Amukhale told a public gathering on March 20 that he and his son Abdul Halil should be evicted from Kakamega. The son was a suspect in the kidnap and murder of Sharlene Mwanzia. He was said to have been was spotted with Mwanzia moments before her disappearance. He escaped when her family started searching for her. Mohammed said residents torched his house and destroyed property as a result of the leaders’ comments. Mwanzia was a Standard Three pupil at St Joseph’s Academy in Kakamega town. She was reported missing from home in Scheme Estate on March 10. Her body was discovered a week later, bound and dumped in a water tank next to her home. Speaking when he visited Mwanzia’s family in March, Oparanya said the family should leave the town to ensure residents’ safety. “If we find him, we shall finish him. I want this family to leave. Police, you’re here and we want it out because residents are always complaining about the family for children killing every year,” he said. Oparanya asked why the suspect had not been convicted three years down the line until he killed another innocent child. “In 2014, when we were here, we were told that the same suspect was behind the killing of another child. I was told he had been arrested and taken to court,” he said. Both Mohammed and his son have left Kakamega.