Experts warn of possible outbreaks of cholera, typhoid and at least four other diseases due to flooding and bad sanitation. They include malaria, chikungunya disease, dengue fever and Rift Valley fever, especially in Western Kenya, Northeastern and the Coast. The
UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said cholera is the
main concern because about 3,000 cases have been reported in Kenya this
year. Ocha says Garissa, Isiolo, Meru, Turkana and West Pokot counties are at highest risk. Read: Three children admitted as cholera hits Naivasha The
number of cholera cases reported to date in 2018 — 2,943 cases
including 55 deaths — is four times the number reported in the same period
last year, the UN reported. Kilifi, Lamu and Mombasa have
reported mosquito-borne chikungunya. Reports indicate Rift Valley fever
has been detected in animals in Baringo county, increasing the risk of
animal-to-human transmission. The biggest worries are cholera and
typhoid, which spread fast and easily kill, especially in camps for IDPs
where sanitation is poor. "We are monitoring camps to ward off
disease outbreaks. We provide purification gadgets in flooded regions,"
Abbas Gullet, secretary General at Kenya Red Cross, said. It has
appealed for Sh500 million for more emergency assistance to almost
200,000 flood victims in Western, Northeastern and Coast. Devolution
CS Eugene Wamalwa says the government has set aside adequate funds for
food, shelter, clean water and medical services to flood victims. WHO says there are other health risks associated with flooding. These include drowning, injuries and trauma.         Another problem is hypothermia, a dangerous drop in body temperature, usually caused by prolonged
exposure to cold temperatures. This can be an especial problem in children if they are trapped in floodwaters for lengthy periods. There may also
be an increased risk of respiratory tract infections due to exposure from loss of shelter, exposure to flood waters and rain. Also read: Thousands of Somali refugees lose homes to flash floods Click here for the latest political news