The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya has distanced itself from two officers that athlete Asbel Kiprop claimed tried to extort him while collecting his samples for testing. Kiprop's woes began on May 3 when it was reported that he had tested positive for a banned substance. He denied the claims and alleged that control officers Simon Mburu and Paul Scott asked him for money. Kiprop claimed that the samples may have been switched before they were labelled ‘A and B’ and taken away. More on this: Olympic champion Asbel Kiprop denies claims he tested positive for doping Also read: Asbel Kiprop puts up fight after doping allegations In a statement on Friday, the agency said: “We wish to distance ourselves from the individuals ... who are not employees of the agency and are not in any way associated with any of our activities. "The individuals have also never been contracted by Adak for any doping control process and thus do not represent any of our interests in line with our strategic mandate." The statement was signed by the agency's Chief Executive Officer Japhter Rugut. It has, however, been established that the duo had been contracted by the IAAF to do sampling in the country. Adak noted that Kiprop did not mention the agency in his response. "We find it roguish, unethical and malicious for sections of the media to attribute the individuals mentioned as DCOs to Adak without any form of verification from us," Rugut said. "We have taken exception of the fact that media houses rushed to tarnish the agency’s name with the unjustified, unsubstantiated and inaccurate conclusions on our role in this saga thus demeaning us in the eyes of our valued stakeholders.” The CEO said it warned athletes, their support personnel and the public of masqueraders posing as ts control offiers. He noted Adak's verification process is clear and that added that they will educate journalists on anti-doping matters. Rugut asked athletes and their support staff to continue attending educational sessions as part of efforts against doping. Read: AIU confirms Asbel Kiprop's positive tests, rejects claims of sample mixup Click here for the latest political news