From the sprawling capital
Kinshasa to villages deep in the equatorial forests, Congo's
ruling PPRD is in full-on election campaign mode - and President
Joseph Kabila's face is everywhere. The deadline for declaring candidates for Democratic
Republic of Congo's scheduled December 23 poll is just over two
months away, and Kabila, 46, is officially not allowed to run
again. But his bearded portrait smiles down from billboards and
T-shirts being printed by his People's Party for Reconstruction
and Democracy (PPRD), while there is no sign of a successor. After a reshuffle this month of Congo's Constitutional Court
and provocative comments from members of his inner circle,
suspicion is rife that Kabila - in power since the death of his
father, Laurent, in 2001 - intends to bypass the constitution
and run for a third term. Any such move would likely ignite chaos across the vast,
mineral-rich country, which has never seen a peaceful change of
power in the 58 years since independence from Belgium. "We were with Kabila, we are still with Kabila and we will
still be with Kabila," PPRD permanent secretary Emmanuel
Ramazani Shadari said on May 5 in an address aired on radio. The deadline for declaring candidates is Aug. 8. A spokesman for Shadari did not respond to a request for
clarification, Kabila has repeatedly dodged the question and
government spokesman Lambert Mende told reporters on Monday he
was "not aware of a plan to change the constitution". Kabila is unpopular in the capital Kinshasa and many parts
of the country. A rare poll released in March showed that eight
in 10 Congolese have an unfavourable opinion of him. Scores have
died in protests since he refused to step down when his mandate
expired 18 months ago. Militias have proliferated, killing and displacing
villagers, kidnapping foreigners and shutting down eco-tourist
spots. The violence has hit mining operations in Africa's top
copper producer and the world's leading miner of cobalt, prized
for batteries for electric vehicles. "LEGAL BASIS" Earlier this month, Kabila appointed three new judges to the
Constitutional Court, including two close allies. His opponents fear the court will legitimise running again
on a legal technicality - the fact that electoral procedure in
the constitution has changed since Kabila was first elected in
2006, although the two-term limit was there before. "The legal basis that legislated the 2006 elections was
different from the one of the 2011 elections," legal expert
Jean-Cyrus Mirindi, a Kabila ally, told a debating forum in
Kinshasa late last month. Long before the changes, the court had ruled when Kabila's
mandate expired in 2016 that he could stay on until the poll. Another option for Kabila is to hold a referendum, as his
allies have sometimes suggested and as the presidents of
neighbouring Rwanda and Congo Republic did. Resistance could come from Congo's Catholic church, which
has slowly transformed from a mediator for peace to lightning
rod for dissatisfaction with Kabila. Donatien Nshole, spokesman for the church council, told a
news conference this week "the bishops will never support" a
Kabila third term. It would also set Congo on a collision course with Western
powers and its neighbours - both of which have a history of
meddling in its affairs. Wars between 1996 and 2003 sucked in
nine African armies and killed millions. French President Emmanuel Macron met with Rwandan President
Paul Kagame last week and Angolan leader Joao Lourenco on Monday
to discuss Congo, infuriating Congolese authorities. Rwanda and Angola fought on opposite sides during a
1998-2003 war, but both are increasingly alarmed at Congo's
slide towards instability. "Congo ... will not let any person, state or interest group
... substitute itself for the Congolese people in deciding its
future," government spokesman Mende said on Monday. Click here for the latest political news