After a day of push and pull on the availability of Moi Stadium, Kasarani, the ministry of Sports have given Gor Mahia the green-light to stage their CAF Confederations Cup encounter against USM Alger of Algeria this evening. Sports Kenya, in a stern letter addressed to Gor Mahia secretariat, had imposed the sanctions after fans destroyed property at the facility during the SportPesa friendly match pitting Kenyan champions Gor Mahia and English Championship side Hull City on Sunday. Making the announcement the Principal Secretary for Sports Kirimi Kaberia said the government resolved in putting measures of curbing acts of hooliganism by introducing Anti-Hooliganism Policy. The policy was agreed between The Ministry of Sports, Sports Kenya and Football Kenya Federation(FKF). Kaberia said: “I can confirm that the match will be played at Kasarani and fans are welcome. 89 seats were destroyed during the match and that must be condemned. The government has introduced an Anti-Hooliganism Policy where FKF, the ministry and Sports Kenya will work towards eliminating the vice. We have resolved to train fans on effects of hooliganism, train more security personnel and boost surveillance on the facility so as to catch the few wrong doers.” Gor Mahia chairman Ambrose Rachier welcomed the lifting of the ban and pleaded with the club’s fans to observe decorum. “It’s a reprieve to us considering that CAF had approved the venue before the closure by Sports Kenya. We were exploring Ugandan and Tanzanian-based venues in case the ban remained and that would be a big shame to us and Kenyan football. I urge Gor Mahia fans and all Kenyan football enthusiasts to observe the right demeanor while using the available facilities.” At the same time Gor head coach Dylan Kerr expressed his confidence with his Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan in filling in for the suspended Meddie Kagere. Kerr said: “Against Hull, I paired Jacques Tuyisenge with Guikan and it worked. I believe Guikan will rise to the occasion and fill in for Kagere. He is still adapting to the style of play and takes instructions well despite being a French speaking player.” Click here for the latest political news