A new blood test will make cancer detection easier. Known as discover liquid biopsy test, it can also be used to track mutations of cancer genes resulting resistance to medication. Kenya will be the third country in Africa to have the technology after South Africa and Tunisia. The test will be available from May 28 for Sh70,000. The CEO of Massive Genomics Bramwel Mwiti told the Star in an interview on Monday the test looks for circulating tumor DNA in the blood. The firm bought the technology from US biotech company Thermofisher. Mwiti said the test can establish the exact genetic mutation of a tumor and monitor a patient’s treatment to see if the tumor is responding to therapy. Once a blood sample has been collected, a patient will get his results in 10 days. The tissue sample test results take four weeks. “However, the test cannot predict if a person will have cancer in their lifetime. Cancer is not like other diseases. It takes eight years to develop,” Mwiti said. A study by researchers from the John Hopkins University with collaboration from Australian scientists at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute found that the test can be used to detect the presence of eight common cancers by sensing tiny amounts of DNA and proteins released into the bloodstream from cancer cells. The eight include ovarian, liver, stomach, pancreatic, esophageal, bowel, lung and breast cancers. The study was published in January in the Science Journal. Kenya Cancer Association programme officer Emily Ochieng’ said yesterday they will only support the technology once experts have proved it can work. “We are not opposing the technology. If it will improve diagnosis and treatment of cancer, that will be a plus for Kenya. The waiting period of the results [when a tissue sample is collected] is always what stresses the patient,” Ochieng’ said. Data from the 2017 Kenya Economic Survey shows cancer is the third leading cause of death. Patients have cited the high cost of treatment as the reason many opt to go to India or other countries to seek affordable treatment. Since cancer has no symptoms, the technology wil be beneficial to Kenyans as 80 per cent of cases are detected late.