Kenyans should brace for more widespread flooding through the end of this month. The forecast is contained in the joint report by the government, the Famine Early Warning System Network and World Food Programme. Flooding will be heavy particularly in the Lake Victoria region, the Rift Valley, Tana River, Garissa, Isiolo, Mandera, Marsabit, and Wajir counties. In May and June, displaced households, particularly those of poor families, are likely to need urgent humanitarian assistance, including food, shelter, health and sanitation care. This is due to the anticipated impact on infrastructure, market access and food prices, which are rising. The Kenya Red Cross reported that 76 people have been killed and 242,536 displaced by floods since the rains began four weeks ago. Homes were either swept away by the floods or submerged by rain waters, forcing families to move out. Most victims are camping in schools. Humanitarian groups say their resources have been overstretched by the crisis. The joint report also said widespread flooding has led to displacement and crop losses, particularly in Tana River and Garissa counties. The areas in greatest need of food are parts of Isiolo, Tana River, Garissa, Kajiado, and Turkana. Marsabit recorded more than 3,000 livestock deaths. Meanwhile, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the government will ensure that flood victims in Mandera get assistance. Hundreds of people were left homeless when River Daawa burst its banks. Takaba and Elwak subcounties are the worst affected. In Homa Bay county, at least 39 schools have been flooded and damaged. The losses are estimated at Sh17.8 million. In Rachuonyo North subcounty, learning has been halted in at least two schools after villagers turned them into temporary shelters. Most of those forced out are still housed in classrooms of Osodo and Kobuya primary schools in Wang Chieng’ ward. In Lamu East, schoolchildren from Basuba ward are unable to return to Arid Zone primary school in Mokowe and Kiunga due to the flooding. In Mpeketoni, more than 300 students of Jericho Primary school have been forced to stay home after five classrooms collapsed this week due to heavy rains and floods. Lamu West subcounty Education officer Josphat Ngumi has appealed to the government and well wishers to repair schools damaged by floods.