Deputy President William Ruto has called upon investigation agencies to prosecute and jail state officers found guilty of corruption. The DP said on Friday that those assigned roles in public offices must be good stewards of resources allocated to them and ensure value for money. "Relevant agencies are directed to apply their mandate and spare no effort to investigate, prosecute individuals who have misappropriated public funds." "...and if found culpable, the courts should dispense swift justice," Ruto said during a graduation ceremony at St Pauls Nyabururu TTC in Kisii. He said tough action will be taken against those named in the National
Youth Service, and National Cereals and Produce Board scandals. "Those
identified to have participated in the loss of billions of shillings in
these scandals should be punished. No one should be spared," he said. The Deputy President called on the Director of Public
Prosecution and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to move fast
and bring the suspects to book. "Stiff
penalties must be meted out to stop such acts. We cannot be losing
money to corrupt individuals at the expense of the development of the
country." In
particular, Ruto asked the Ministry of Agriculture to not only explain to
Kenyans how much money was lost but also how the money meant
for farmers ended up in the hands of brokers and businessmen. "How
can one supply more than 200,000 bags to the National Cereals Board yet
he or she has no land? Such a question needs an honest answer," the
Deputy President said. The Deputy President launched the tarmac work on the Nyachenge-Tabaka-Ogembo and Nyansembe-Etago-Kenyanya roads during his tour of Kisii. A lobby group has planned to stage a demonstration on May 31over rampant corruption in state ministries. This followed investigation on scandals at the National Youth Service (NYS), Kenya Power, National Cereals and Produce Board and Kenya Pipeline Company. Related: Audit reveals massive irregularities at Kenya Power as MD vows action Through a trending hashtag #STOPTheseTHIEVES, members of the public have been asked to show up in large numbers for the demos. "The march will start at Freedom Corner in Uhuru Park then proceed to Harambee House which houses President Uhuru Kenyatta’s office," reads the poster. At NYS, officials are facing probe over the loss of Sh10 billion in procurement of various items where NCPB officials are on spot over questionable Sh1.9 billion payments. More on NCPB: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Read: EACC sleuths raid homes of Kenya Pipeline officials in Sh600m flawed tender probe Click here for the latest political news   