Rhoda Imali hurries to catch a matatu to Parklands estate in Nairobi where she has been working as a house help for an Asian family for the past 25 years. Labour Day is just another tough working day for Imali, with nothing to smile about. Not even the much awaited presidential increment on minimum wage can tickle her. She calls it as ‘uongo wa kila mwaka’ (annual deception). "Those wage increments have lost meaning. They have never reflected in my pay,’’ said Imali. Her sentiments are shared by Fred*, a security guard at a renowned private firm in Westlands. He laments that although President Uhuru Kenyatta set least monthly wages at Sh12,930 last year, most employees especially in the private sector are paid as low as Sh8,000. ‘’Employers are tricky. My contract has no specifics on working time. I sometimes work for more than 12 hours without compensation. Employers don’t take government directives on wages and working conditions seriously. Those who dare question are dismissed with impunity,’’ he said. Kenya are forced to endure tough working conditions in order to place food on the table, considering that employers have a long list to pick from due to high the unemployment rate in the country that currently stands at 40 per cent according to the latest UN Human Capital Index. Although President Kenyatta increased minimum wage by 18 per cent last year, with the least paid employee earning Sh12, 930, employers are accused of ignorance. Speaking during yesterday’s Labour Day celebrations in Nairobi, Central Organisation of Trade Union secretary general Francis Atwoli put employers who do not comply with wage minimum wage increment on notice, threatening to shame them. "We will soon name and shame companies that are frustrating employees. Colonial mentality cannot be tolerated in independent Kenya,’’ said Atwoli to cheers. Federation of Kenya Employers told the Star that it always follows up to ensure that the members comply with government directives. A marketing manager at the federation said that presidential order is lawful hence no member can breach it under their watch "Our workers are well taken care of compared to other countries. There is however always a room for improvement,’’ said FKE executive director Jacqueline Mugo during the Labor Day Celebration led by Labour cabinet secretary Ukur Yatani. Click here for the latest political news 