Champions Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Prisons’ men volleyball teams dominated individual awards as the Amaco/Paul Bitok International tournament ended at the Eldoret Polytechnic grounds over the weekend. Pipeline defended their title after overcoming their junior side Pipeline ‘B’ 3-2(25-13, 21-25, 29-31,25-15,15-13) in the final. It was double victory for Pipeline as left handed Violet Makuto and Triza Atuka were declared the Most Valuable Player and best blocker respectively. Other winners from Pipeline included Janet Wanja (best setter), Cellestine Nyongesa (libero) and Valentine Chepkoech (best server). Kenya Prisons who settled for third position had promising Pamela Masaisai as the best attacker while Bungoma County had Doreen Khaemba as the best receiver. In the men’s category, Prisons, who surrendered their one set lead to succumb to their local nemesis General Service Unit 3-2( 25-19,20-25, 25-22,19-25,13-15) in the final, provided the Most Valuable Player in hard hitting Elphas Makuto, Rodgers Kipkirui (best blocker), Kevin Maiyo (best setter) as well as Jairus Kipkosgei (best receiver). GSU’s Cornelius Kiplagat and Brian Melly were declared best attacker and setter respectively. Winners in the women’s and men’s category bagged Sh150, 000 while the first and second runners each received 100,000 and 75,000. Pipeline coach Japheth Munala was over the moon after catapulting two teams to the final. “I am happy especially for the ‘B’ team because that’s a clear indication that they can also match their senior counterparts,” said Munala who doubles up as the national women’s volleyball team coach. Prisons men’s assistant coach Dennis Mokua noted the youthful side are making remarkable improvement if the results of the weekend is anything to go by. Mokua said: “We fielded a youthful side and we are happy with the performance. It’s just a matter of time before the results we need start flowing.” Event founder Bitok said he is keen to see am improvement in cash prizes.