Shabana FC have warned AFC Leopards that their SportPesa Shield first round encounter on Saturday will not be a walk in the park. Shabana coach Andrew Kanuli said Leopards should expect a tough game against the Football Kenya Federation Division I Zone ‘B’ side. “Football is won on the pitch. We respect AFC Leopards as defending champions but we don’t fear them. The team has conceded in every game but they have also scored in every game. We hope to exploit on their weaknesses,” said Kanuli. “Expect a very good game. The boys are excited and ready so the fans should anticipate a positive result.” He, however,regretted that the game will be played at Moi Stadium, Kisumu and not Shabana’s home ground ­— Gusii Stadium. The stadium is currently undergoing renovations ahead of the Kenya Inter-County Sports and Cultural Association (Kicosca) games in August. Experienced Shabana captain Wycliffe Nyangechi echoed his coach’s sentiments, saying “We can beat Leopards. We go into the game as underdogs but we are confident of pulling an upset.” Former club chairman, Jared Nivaton, has also promised the players Sh125, 000 if they beat AFC Leopards on Saturday. “This is one of the most important games for the team this season. You can do it even though most of you have not played at that level. I have seen small teams felling giants before,” he added. Nivaton also gave one bus for fans who will travel to Kisumu. Shabana fans chairman Boniface Ntabo said more than 10 buses will ferry fans to Kisumu. “We want to storm Kisumu and give the boys support. We can beat AFC Leopards,” noted Ntabo. Shabana organizing secretary, Stephen Kiama, appealed to Governor James Ongwae and the entire Kisii County leadership to travel to Kisumu to support the team. Menwhile, despite placing 11th at the close of the National Division I league first half Poror Mote are still hopeful of a top five finish at the end of the season. Poror are on ‘page two’ of the league standings with 14 points from 13 games. Team coach Oscar Kibet said they are targeting to win most of their matches upon resumption. “Last season, we finished the first leg with five points, this season we have improved to 14. We still dream of playing in the National Super League and Kenyan Premier League in future,” said Kibet. He however noted that the club faces serious financial constrains. “We struggle to honour our home and away matches because we don’t have a sponsor at the moment. We rely of well-wishers to support us,” added Kibet. Kibet added that they have sought assistance from Baringo County government to help them strengthen the side. “We approached Governor Stanley Kiptis who promised to start supporting us from the new financial year,” added Kibet. The club wrapped up their first round matches with a 3-0 loss to Shabana at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. If the club gets support from the County, Kibet added, they will recruit some new players although he was not specific on areas they want to strengthen. The club missed the services of their talented goalkeeper, Ezra Chege, who has been outstanding throughout the season. The 16-year old is a student at Githioro High School in Eldama Ravine. Chege was given a standing ovation by fans during their game against Kisumu Hot Stars and Griffin at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. “He was playing for his school in the Sub-County games. The principal insisted that he must play for the institution but we didn’t have an option,” added Kibet. Kibet backed Chege to play for the national team in future. “He is very talented. His reflexes and reactions are incredible. This boy has a bright future,” noted Kibet. In the first round, the club won three matches, lost five and drew five but coach Kibet is unfazed by the results. Click here for the latest political news