Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei has declined calls to reconcile with Governor Stephen Sang. The two have differed over alleged corruption in hiring of staff and procurement at the county government. The legislator told off MPs Wilson Kogo (Chesumei), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop) and DP William Ruto’s aide Farouk Kibet when the three tried to reconcile him with the county boss. Cherargei said 'sickening' graft in Nandi cannot be taken lightly. "We cannot reconcile unless the governor ends corruption in Nandi and forces those who have stolen from the county to return the public funds," he said. Cherargei and Sang have been clashing at public functions in the county following the accusations of graft among other claims of skewed hiring of staff. The Senator claims that the county government has been hiring outsiders, many of them women, who he commonly refers to as 'slay queens'. "The county is full of 'slay queens' and outsiders who have taken up
job meant to benefit the people of Nandi," Cherargei said on Saturday. But Sang, on the other hand, claims the senator is interested in tenders and some of the job opportunities at the county. The senator alleged that there is graft in two key projects costing Sh400 million which is being executed by the county. "There is no graft in Nandi county and the senator should stop peddling cheap propaganda and state his real interests," Sang said in response to the claims. Specifically, the Senator has opposed plans to demolish a Sh150 million building set to house the county headquarters. The block, which is under construction, was allegedly condemned by the National Construction Authority (NCA) due to structural weaknesses. The legislator says he went to the NCA on a fact-finding mission and learned that there was no report condemning the building. "It seems some county officials wanted kickbacks from the contractor if additional funding is to be approved for the project," Cherargei said. The Senator has also questioned the governor’s decision to purchase 18 lorry tippers at a cost of Sh15 million each. He argues that the cost of the lorries was inflated by more than Sh10 million each. The county used more than Sh270 million on the purchases. "We want the EACC and the Auditor General to move in and investigate ongoing corruption in Nandi," Cherargei added. He further how Sh13 million meant for bursaries was converted into imprest for some staff "yet hundreds of children are still waiting for the monies". "We need an explanation on this and the money should be refunded so that its used where it was intended," the Senator said. The governor has insisted that his administration is undertaking all its activities above board. 