There is no doubt that there has been an upturn of results at Tusker in the SportPesa Premier League since Robert Matano returned to Ruaraka. But as last week’s defeats to lowly Nakumatt showed, even the self proclaimed ‘Lion’ does not have a magic wand to turn around the fortunes of a club that has been mired in mediocrity since the beginning of lasts season. Once again, the players have a chance to show they can rise to the level expected of ten-time league winners when they play host to middle tablers, Kakamega Homeboyz. Timothy Otieno and Boniface Muchiri have only fleetingly shown glimpse of their potentials but they should now be in full verve if the brewers are to continue on an upward trajectory that has seen them pick seven points from their last four matches. Tomorrow with a chance to go top of the table beckoning, Ulinzi Stars will bid goodbye at least for a while to key defender Brian Birgen as revealed by coach Dunstan Nyaudo. The tie against fellow title contenders Sofapaka will be Birgen’s last as he is scheduled to go for a military progression course starting June, and will be off the roster for the next five months, thus ruling him out for the remainder of the 2018 campaign. “It is in our program to help players grow also in their jobs and in line with that, Birgen will be away for the next five months, starting June. This is a big blow, but again I am happy for him because he will grow in his career,” the coach said. Kokoyo, Omar Boraafya, Mark Bikokwa, Eugene Ochieng and Vincent Masinde will all be available for selection in the second leg after finishing their respective military courses and the coach acknowledges that as Birgen exits, he has able replacements. Along with the other players, the coach says they will be dedicating the Sofapaka match to Birgen. A very disciplined member of the team, Birgen has been crucial in the first leg run, in which the team has kept eight clean sheets in 15 matches. “We will play the Sofapaka game for him, and we hope to give him a good send-off as he heads out to start his course,” Don added. Birgen missed the opening three games of the season but upon return, took charge of the right side of defence and stabilised it while also playing a key role in attack; case in point, his three assists that won the team points against Kariobangi Sharks, Bandari and Nzoia Sugar. Meanwhile, the Mathare United vs Zoo Kericho match which was scheduled to be played at Ruaraka tomorrow has been moved to June 2. The match will be played at Ruaraka, starting 3:00pm. Tomorrow Kariobangi Sharks vs Bandari (Camp Toyoyo) 11am Posta Rangers vs Nakumatt (Camp Toyoyo) 2pm Wazito vs Nzoia Sugar (Camp Toyoyo) 4:15pm Ulinzi Stars vs Sofapaka (Afraha) 3pm