Some Siaya residents want MCAs recalled. Reason? They say the MCAs are hurting development by blocking Governor Cornel Rasanga from delivering on his promises. Residents have started collecting signatures to recall five MCAs whom they accuse of blocking development and carrying their concubines to an ongoing conference in Mombasa. It’s said the vocal MCAs carried several college girls to Mombasa. ***** A nominated senator recently commissioned an opinion poll on the performance of and popularity of the sitting Woman Rep. The senator was disappointed when the results showed the Woman Rep is still a darling of the people. She ordered that the results be withheld and refused to pay the pollster, who has threatened to release the results for free to the Woman Rep. The people who did the survey are mad at the senator. ***** Could projects undertaken by the NYS be an indicator of looting schemes at the institution? Just after launching several cleanup, community development and infrastructure projects in 2014, the NYS gave birth to a Sh1.8 billion scam. In April, the institution ventured into the public transport sector, with buses that charged fares at almost half those levied by matatus. The move rescued several commuters from exorbitant fares, but just about the same time the mind-boggling looting of billions has surfaced. Corridors is wondering, should Kenyans “think twice” whenever NYS launches a new programme aimed at helping the general public? ***** Are there powerful forces at Integrity Centre determined to thwart high-profile investigations in Nyanza region? Sources have whispered to Corridors that a number of investigators from Kisumu and Kisii counties are lamenting that a senior officer at Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission headquarters in Nairobi is deliberately frustrating their probe on specific cases. The dejected sleuths are hopeful EACC boss Eliud Wabukala will rein in the officer sooner rather than later. ***** Just a day after Corridors told you of a former scribe who has become an overnight extortionist, a source has whispered that the same man approached a Cabinet Secretary who was recently besieged with promises to “extinguish political fires” that were exploding. He told the CS that he would manage the crisis using his connections with the powers that be and talk to politicians who were baying for blood. However, the CS refused to give in to his request because he had asked for too much. Dismayed, the journo coiled his tail promising to fuel the war. Click here for the latest political news