SportPesa Premier League Golden Boot favourite Elvis Rupia won the April Player of the Month gong and affirmed his allegiance to his Bungoma-based club, Nzoia Sugar for the remainder of the season. The 22-year-old Nzoia Sugar hit-man who is the subject of intense lobbying, with other clubs salivating for his signature out-scored Zoo FC duo Nicholas Kipkirui and Michael Madoya to claim the April gong that comes along with a 49 inch LG television set and Sh100,000 from SportPesa. Rupia has hogged the spotlight this season since kick-off in February with his prolific goal-scoring overtures and the April gong provides an icing to his novel season so far. The 2018 season revelation, Rupia garnered 19 votes to Kipkirui’s 17 while Madoya collected 15. Chris Masinza of Vihiga United was a distant 4th with 9 votes. With four goals each for their clubs, the three leading players in that month, ranked a goal better than Masinza but Rupia emerged top to beat the equally exceptional Zoo FC duo. The Harambee Stars trialist challenged pursuers in the goal scoring log to catch him if they could. “I’m very happy to be honoured for what I do on the pitch and hopefully, this will spur greater effort from me. I could not have achieved this without the support of my teammates and club officials so I dedicate this to them as well,” Rupia said after being feted at his Sudi stadium base. “I don’t know who is going to win the ‘Golden Boot’ race this year but I’ll surely give my best for the rest of the season to claim it. If I do, It would be another fulfilled dream. There are already fruits of scoring goals like getting a call up to the national team but there is still plenty of work to be done so that I earn a cap,” he added. Rupia reminisced about Nzoia’s poor start to the season and attributed their resurgence to a candid team talk when performance was most dismal. “We sat down and interrogated ourselves then made decisions that have bore fruit. Each one of us realised what was do be done and we all worked towards it. There is a target to finish high up in the league, possibly third, which means we have to work extra hard for the remainder of the season,” the lethal striker explained. "I’ve received many offers from rival premier league clubs but I would like to stay and see off the season here. I do not want to break the rhythm I’ve gained here because moving to another club mid season can really unsettle a player. I therefore want to stay here even though there are exciting offers. I know what I want and I have a plan which I intend to stick to," he concluded.