If there is a player of his age who has been much maligned for no fault of his won is Patilla Omotto and yesterday he showed why he is loved in his Kariobangi abode as he scored the goal that prevented Kariobangi Sharks form falling to a yet another humiliating loss. Omotto restored parity after connecting with Bolton Omwenga’s corner in the second half to deny Matahare United what would have been a morale boosting win that instead, ended as a frustrating draw as they battle to keep pace with Gor Mahia at the top. Johnstone Omurwa made a heroic block to deny former deadly Mathare winger Harisson Mwendwa as Sharks threatened to run riot in the opening periods of the Slum derby. It was Mathare though, who made the first attacking move as Edward Seda played on and off John Mwangi through in a sweeping team move but the striker, who has struggled to nail down a first team place failed to apply the killer touch. Midway through the fist half, serial destroyer Clifford Alwanga got the 2008 champions heading in a Martin Ongori cross. Mathare, with their noses in front, made the first change of the game despite having a controlled lead with Alwanga making way for Ochieng after coming off the worse in a first half challenge. Omoto then restored parity by firing in the equaliser past Robert Mbaya before Mathare again made a substitution, with Alphonce Ndonye taking the place of Chrispin Oduor. It was Sharks however who created the next best chance with Sydney Lokale missing a gilt edged opportunity to send Sharks ahead as his improvised strike went wide. In the end, the draw was a fair result but neither team will be happy at taking a point when their opponents were there for the taking. Meanwhile, relegation threatened Nakumatt’s wait for a return to winning ways is over after beating their hosts Zoo FC 3-2. Heading to this tie, Nakumatt had won just one league match in 2018. Anthony Mwangi’s charges were winless in the last 10 league matches with the bad run stretching from mid-February. Conceding was the side’s major undoing as they had kept just four clean-sheets in the last 11 games and had soaked in 25 goals in 2018. Just like in 2017, Zoo FC, who struggled in opening eight KPL matches had overcome the bad run and were now enjoying a five-match unbeaten run. Nakumatt started off brightly and managed to bag two goals in the opening half. Their first goal came after 22 minutes of play when Job Omuse nodded in the opener after being picked by Meshack Karani’s cross. They then added the second goal at the 41st minute with Clinton Kisiavuki opening a two goal gap for a 2-0 lead at halftime. Their host Zoo came from the break and put up a strong fight that saw them equalize the two goals. Zoo’s opener came just after one hour minute mark after Mike Madoya found the back of the net as a result of an Isaac Kipyegon cross. 17 minutes later Zoo FC leveled the scores courtesy of a goal from Nicholas Kipkurui who was once again teed up by Kipyegon. Nakumatt FC would however end the wait for the second win of the season thanks to a goal from Boniface Mukhekhe in the dying minutes of the tie. Despite the win the shoppers remains bottom of the table standings after garnering 10 points from 14 league games.