The High Court has directed Kenya
Power and the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC)
to respond to a petition filed by lawyer Apollo Mboya challenging the increment
of Electricity bills. Justice Chacha Mwita gave directions after the matter came up for hearing but Kenya Power lawyer Kimani Kiragu
said he is yet to file the responses. “We are seeking leave to file the
responses as my client has been sick and out of the country. We need to also
file the supplementary affidavits as the petitioner has raised three new issues
which need time to be addressed,” Kiragu said. Mboya however said that he was ready
to proceed with the matter as he had already filed the submissions. “I have already filed my submissions
as this matter is of public interest and if court grant the respondents stay, I
will also have to put submission for the supplementary which will delay the
case”, Mboya said. Kiragu further argued that court
should grant him leave since according to the constitution, court allows leave
at any stage in the proceedings. Justice Chacha however granted an adjournment
and directed the parties to file responses and submissions and serve within 14 days. The case will be heard October 9. In January the energy distributor was barred from
sending customers inflated bills to recover Sh8.1 billion. The figure was initially Sh10.1
billion but Sh2 billion was recovered. Justice Mwita issued the temporary
orders after lawyer Apollo Mboya and the Electricity
Consumers Society filed a class action suit against Kenya Power. The order will remain until the case
is heard and determined. There has been public uproar over by
the electricity supplier. The
backdated Sh10.1 billion is contained in KPLC's annual report
and financial statements for the year ending June 30, 2017. Mboya wants
the company stopped from disconnecting electricity based on the report which,
he notes, carries inflated and backdated bills and estimates. "The
court should issue an order directing the company to refund consumers payments
made in excess of actual meter readings, on account of the said recovery as
contained in its financial estimates." The
petitioners want the court to issue an order directing the
Auditor General to form a commission, to conduct a detailed financial and
operational forensic audit, to establish the amount that should be
recovered. They also
want the court to declare that the company made a false and misleading
representation of electricity tariffs and bills to its consumers, thereby
infringing on their rights. Mboya says last October,
several consumers began receiving inflated bills yet the company admitted
recovering Sh2 billion, allegedly incurred on diesel generation that
year. He says the amount was not factored into bills sent so far. The applicants further contend that
Kenya Power, in a letter dated January 10, admitted that there were errors. Mboya, who is former Law Society of
Kenya chairman, further says the monopoly Kenya Power enjoys is
unconstitutional.