Voters in Burundi have
overwhelmingly approved a new constitution, the electoral
commission said on Monday, ushering in changes that could let President Pierre Nkurunziza's stay in power to 2034. An opposition coalition rejected the result of last week's
referendum while the United States said the process had been
marred by voter intimidation. The commission reported that 73 percent had voted in favour
of amendments extending the presidential term from five to seven
years and allowing Nkurunziza to seek two more
terms, beginning in 2020. Commission chairman Pierre Claver Ndayicariye told a news
conference that 96 percent of the 4.7 million registered voters
cast ballots last Thursday. Opposition leaders say the changes to the constitution will
allow Nkurunziza -- whose party gave him the title of Supreme
Eternal Guide this year -- to be above the law. Evariste Ngayimpenda, a top official of the Amizero
y'Abarundi opposition coalition, denounced "a process which was
tainted with many incidents including arrests, imprisonments and
killings". "We reject these results and we will file a complaint
because the process was marred by lot of irregularities, even
during the counting of the votes," he said. Opposition campaign workers had been terrorised and refused
access to polling stations, he added. Rights groups said campaigning and the vote itself took
place in a climate of fear and intimidation. The government had
denied the vote would be anything but free and fair. In Washington, the US State Department said the government
had allowed vigorous campaigning by the opposition during the
designated two-week campaign period. "But numerous cases of
harassment and repression of referendum opponents in the months
preceding the vote contributed to a climate of fear and
intimidation," spokeswoman Heather Nauert said. She also condemned Burundi's suspension of broadcasts by the
BBC and Voice of America two weeks before the referendum. "This decision along with other media restrictions,
arbitrary arrests, and harsh sentences for human rights
defenders signals continuing limitations on civic and political
space in Burundi," Nauert said. Burundi ranks 159th out of 180 countries on the World Press
Freedom Index compiled by the advocacy group Reporters Without
Borders. Nkurunziza, 54, is a former rebel leader who came to power
in 2005 at the end of a long civil war in which 300,000 died. The East African country has broadly the same ethnic make-up as
neighbouring Rwanda, where 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus
were slaughtered by Hutu extremists in a 1994 genocide. Nkurunziza was due to step down in 2015 but early that year
announced he was seeking a third term, triggering deadly clashes
with his opponents and a political and security crisis that has
gripped the country of 10 million since. Click here for the latest political news