Since mid-last season, everything Gor Mahia have touched seems to turn to gold. That midas ability has been replicated this year both domestically and in a so far stellar continental campaign. Today, they return to the local scene to face Kakamega Homeboyz in the only Kenyan Premier League match of the day. Top of the table with more than a couple of matches to spare against their title rivals, Dylan Kerr’s charges will go into this clash without much pressure. Their ‘second string’ side have been left to grapple with domestic responsibilities and have largely accounted themselves well. They have not only ensured that after 11 matches, the defending champions are unbeaten but are now with 27 points, two clear of Ulinzi Stars the latest club to emerge as their main rivals as others fall by the wayside.
Philemon Omondi, Benard Ondiek, Cersidy Okeyo and Boniface Omondi have been integral in keeping Gor in the title hunt despite their busy schedule in the CAF Confederation Cup and earlier, the Champions League. They are all likely to be given a run out against a Homeboyz side who have largely blown hot and cold this season but look solid at home.
Experienced players like James Situma and Allan Wanga have the wherewithal to inspire their side to  end Gor’s unbeaten streak. It is one they will hope to inspire in the other players if they are to get anything from this tie, despite playing it in their own backyard. With a top of the table clash against Ulinzi on Saturday, just three days before they host USM Alger, a delicate balancing act will be needed from Kerr to keep his team fresh and still on the winning trail. Francis Kahata and Meddie Kagere have been the in-form players for the side and Kerr must decide whether to use them today or keep them fresh for the two key clashes, starting with the soldiers.
Homeboyz have won two of their last five matches and will have noted with interest that Gor have not won in their last two outings in the league. Victory for Homeboyz will see them move up to sixth in the table while, should K’Ogalo get maximum points, then they will be five points to the good.