Crisis looms in Njukini in Taita Taveta County where police have allegedly blocked over 2,000 evicted victims from receiving humanitarian assistance. There has been forcible eviction since March 2018 from the troubled 2,300-acre Sir Ramson Farm. The farm is part of the Ziwani Settlement Scheme. On Sunday, a caravan comprising Kamba leaders as well as crew of Kamba radio station were barred from accessing the area as police said they had not been informed in time that leaders were visiting. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has condemned the eviction terming it inhuman. “I was deeply disturbed that evictions were still going on at Njukini in Taita Taveta County. The area has been cordoned off by security agencies barring any form of assistance to reach the suffering Kenyans,” Kalonzo said on Tuesday. The majority of the victims are believed to be from the Kamba community. Kalonzo whilst condemning the police action said he will soon be leading a delegation to the area with humanitarian assistance for the victims. “I am now calling upon all of us to put together humanitarian stuff. We must visit our people in Njukini. We want the police to teargas us for this act of humanity. We do not care who owns the land; we just want to help our people in Taveta” he said. Read:Evicted Ziwani squatters tell of ordeal as houses pulled down Speaking at the same venue, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr. said the inhumane acts meted out on the people in Njukini is of unimaginable magnitude. Mutula revealed that he has written to the Kenya National Commission of Human Rights and the Kenya Red Cross over the Njukini crisis, asking for their immediate intervention. “Our people in Mwea are being evicted forcefully and their land being given to other people. By law, if you live in a piece of land for 12 years uninterrupted, then that land becomes yours by the law called prescription,” Mutula said. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has however thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for ordering a halt to evictions at the Mwea Settlement Scheme. “I want to thank the President for heeding to my call and putting a halt to the evictions,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news 