Researchers have raised the alarm over the use of herbal medicine in rural areas to treat children. Kenyatta University health experts yesterday said the herbs are not tested and approved by medical experts and exposed children to health risks. In their findings, herbs are commonly used to treat stomach upsets and respiratory problems for underfives. “Apart from treating illnesses, the need for supplement, growth improvement and appetite improvement were other conditions contributing to use of herbal medicines,” David Nzuki from KU’s department of community health, and lead author, said. Read: Germs in most herbal meds sicken, or worse Also Read: Caution on herb medicine The study, ‘Determinants of herbal medicine utilisation among children underfive years of age’,  was presented at the ongoing Kenya Medical Training College scientific conference. The authors recommend massive awareness campaigns among parents of the dangers of indiscriminate use. low income The research was undertaken in Tharaka Nithi county last year. The scientists say the results  are  representative of counties with a similar economic profile. They found 89 per cent of underfives had used herbal medicine. Their parents had low education and low income. “The study recommends regulation of herbal medicine and more research into herbal medicine with a view to integrating it into modern healthcare delivery system,” Nzuki said. The most commonly used herbs were amaranth (mchicha) and Erythrina abyssinica, also known as Mwambangoma in Kiswahili. The Kenya Medical Research Institute recently said most herbal medicines in Kenya contain dangerous germs, exposing users to diseases, including meningitis. Researchers bought the drugs  from shops and streets in Eldoret and Mombasa, and took samples for testing in Nairobi. Only 31 per cent were safe for human consumption. The rest were contaminated with fungi. Some of the germs can poison the lungs and the brain, leading to death, they warned.  Click here for the latest political news