Kenyans will wait longer to enjoy sunshine as more rains are headed our way, according to the weatherman. Kenya Meteorological Department acting director Peter Ambenje yesterday said afternoon rains will hit most parts of the country until Monday next week. The rains were expected to end this month. Lake Victoria Basin, Rift Valley highlands, Central Kenya highlands, including Nairobi, and the Coast will be the wettest. “The Coast is likely to receive heavy rainfall during the first half of the forecast period,” he said. Read: Met warns of heavy rains in Coast Ambenje said indicators of hazardous weather will be felt today and tomorrow when rains will pound the whole country. The rest of the days will experience a mixture of morning sunny intervals and possibility of evening showers, the Met boss said. The rains will aggravate an already alarming situation. Thousands of children have been unable to report to school. “Flooding is likely to continue during the first half of the forecast period, especially in low-lying and poorly drained areas that have been receiving heavy rainfall,” Ambenje said. Landslides might occur in areas where soils have become saturated with rain and floodwaters, he said. “Traffic disruptions are expected in urban areas during downpours.” Related: Rains wash waste from bare land and pollute rivers The Met wrongly predicted that northern and southeastern Kenya would be dry from last week. Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, Kitui, Machakos, Makueni, Tana River and Taita Taveta counties are in these regions. The weatherman had said Central Kenya and southern parts of Central Rift Valley would be dry in the third and fourth weeks of May. The areas include Nairobi, Nyandarua, Embu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties. Others are Narok and Kajiado counties. “May marks the cessation of the long rains for the northwestern, northeastern and southeastern parts,” Ambenje said last week. He warned that heavy showers would pound the whole country and could exceed the average amount for May in some places. Click here for the latest political news