Six pupils escaped death at school in Nakuru when a latrine they were using collapsed on Wednesday morning. The pupils of Kisulisuli Primary School were treated at Nakuru level five hospital for minor injuries and discharged. The boys had gone to relieve themselves when the latrines' walls caved in. The pupils ran out but six were injured. Head teacher Mary Kadiri said she called the police, the Kenya Red Cross and the county fire department for rescue. "They responded immediately and rescued the class one boys who had been injured," Kadiri said. The latrine was built by a church that conducts its services at the school. Parents said the school allowed the church to put up a tent in the compound for prayers but the church later built a latrine with a poor foundation. "The school has new toilets but some children opted to use the church’s urinal because it was open. Could it be just an accident?" parent Peter Karanja asked. "We cannot assume. How come the toilet collapsed just immediately schools opened? There is more than meets the eye." Mary Nyambura said it was unfortunate the church had a tent within the school compound. "They normally worship on Wednesday when the pupils are in class," the parent said. Parents and residents asked education authorities to order the church out of the school grounds. Nakuru Education CEC Raymond Komen visited the scene and promised to investigate. It has been raining since Tuesday evening until Wednesday morning and water was coming from Menengai crater and town, causing flooding. Komen said the structure could have been weakened by the flooding, hence, the accident. He said he would request the Public Works Department to evaluate structures in all public schools to avoid such accidents. He expressed surprise that a church had been allowed to operate in the school and even build a latrine for its members. "I promise to follow up the issue to the end. I’m saddened about the incident and wish the injured boys speedy recovery," the CEC said. Environment director Muriithi Kiogora blamed poor drainage systems in Nakuru. "There is a lot of surface water overflow and the existing drains are already overstretched," he said. Click here for the latest political news