The Ministry of Health on Wednesday defended its decision to withdraw the Guidelines on safe abortions. It said this is to stop unscrupulous health practitioners who were procuring abortions that are not allowed by law. Dr Joel Gondi, the Head of the Reproductive and Maternal Health Service Unit, told Court that the guidelines were recalled in 2013 after they learned they were being used for unintended purposes. Testifying before a five-judge bench, Dr Gondi said the guidelines had opened an opportunity for untrained people in backstreet clinics to carry out abortions on request, and the ministry felt further consultations were required. The doctor further defended the position taken by the ministry to ban Medabon - a combination of Mifepristone and Misoprostol used to induce abortions, saying the move followed numerous complaints from members of the public. "Part of the complaints that the ministry received include uncontrolled abortions." Dr Gondi added that "availability of Medabon even on the counters made it easier for women and girls to unlawfully terminate pregnancies". The doctor disagreed with an earlier stand taken by leading obstetrician and gynecologist Dr Joseph Karanja who on Tuesday told Justices Aggrey Muchelule, Mumbi Ngungi, George Odunga, Lydia Achode and John Mativo that life begins after birth – and the unborn child has only a form of life. "Your honour the ministry of Health is of the view that life begins at conception. It also affirms that every human being including unborn the unborn child has a right to life." The doctor explained that health services in the country are offered at different tiers. He, however, said safe abortions are only allowed in Level 4 institutions. Responding to concerns about sexual violence victims and unplanned pregnancies, Dr Gondi said the terminating life of unborn baby cannot be a solution. "Instead, women in such situations can put their babies up for adoption." In the case, Fida Kenya and the Centre for Reproductive Rights are challenging the decision taken by the ministry saying it’s a violation of women right. Dr Gondi said the ministry’s intention is to ensure the right professionals are trained so as to protect the rights of both the mothers and unborn children. He said the ministry, just like the world over face constant challenge while dealing with unlicensed health facilities where unqualified people misuse medicines. He said there were enough Level 4 hospitals that are equipped to deal with issues of safe abortions when the need arises. Click here for the latest political news