Title: Afropolitan Artiste: Victoria Kimani Genre: World/ Pop Release: April  In the significant years since Victoria Kimani joined the music scene, the orbit her world revolves in has transformed tremendously. She is not the same pop songstress she was five years ago when she released hits like “Mtoto” and “Oya”. She excelled at her outset, giving local artistes something to think about by tilting the entire pop genre into something that could be accepted globally. Now, she’s disruptive. Her stance towards how she could use the experience earned from living abroad to dominate the industry was key to her success. Her brother Bamboo was indeed one of the shapers of rap in Kenya, and she needed a share of that, too. Instead of adopting a subtle style, she took cues from the best pop artistes around the world and instantly turned herself into a serious performer, one to be considered among the top. She is rarely out of the public eye, and now she prides herself in being among the country’s biggest names. Her catalogue is one to fancy, comprising numerous singles and a full-length album, “Safari”. Over the years, she has collaborated with amazing talent like MI Abaga, Diamond Platinumz and R City. Now, rooted in her pop sound, she has delivered yet another project, christened “Afropolitan”. The seven-track project, which was exclusively released on Songa Music streaming app, kicks off with “Wonka”. There’s a couple of club-destined tunes like “Should Be”, “ Highest Calibre” and “Boom.”  “My Sweetie” picks inspiration and borrows greatly from Bunny Mack’s “My Sweety My Sugar (Let Me Love You).” TOK’s “Gal You A Lead”  also influences the chorus of the closing tune “Not For Sale”. Victoria seems to be on the verge of making her greatest concession, and before she delivers another LP, it’s important for her to give her fans something to keep them going. However, something leaves her fans a little cold. As the pop tides keep shifting, she still dwells on what works for her. Every track feels like the last, and that’s the fault that comes with occupying a safe space.  Star Rating: 3.5/5 