Kenya Power will today commission a Sh13 billion substation in Nairobi, which is expected to address power interruption in the city. The modernized indoor 220KV substation will replace the 50-year-old air-insulated switchgear at Juja Road substation, boosting power transformer capacity by more than 50 per cent. The project funded through a twenty-year concesssion loan from China Exim Bank will be commissioned by Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter. It is expected to enhance the supply to meet increasing domestic and commercial consumers' demand. The most recent Africa Energy Outlook by International Energy Agency show that Kenya encounters 600 hours or 25 days of power outage every year, denying the Kenya Power Sh3.4 billion in revenue. Speaking recently to the Star, Kenya Power managing director Ken Tarus said, the GIS system is part of a network modernisation plan which also involves network reinforcement measures including upgrading faulty or overloaded transformers and adding new ones. "The modern system will bring efficiency in the power sector in the city. The cable will enhance communication between our officers on the ground, significantly reducing power blackouts in the city,’’ said Tarus GIS technology can reduce space requirements by up to 70 per cent compared to conventional air-insulated switchgear substations, making it ideal for densely populated urban areas and challenging environmental conditions. A Switzerland based power automation firm ABB won the $24 million (Sh2.4 billion) tender in 2015 which included substation design, supply, installation and commissioning. "The scope of work included; development of a high-voltage switchgear and power transformers, IEC 61850-compliant open automation, control, protection and communication systems, enabling efficient local as well as remote monitoring and control from Kenya Power’s national control center," the firm revealed in website post. The 16.5 kilometre 220kV underground cable runs from the Embakasi substation to the new city centre substation located behind Kenya Railways depot at a cost of Sh10.56 billion. This is the first phase of the project which is expected to run until 2021. It will also entail construction of 25.71 kilometres of 66kV transmission lines in underground cable to connect the new city centre substation to the proposed Likoni Road substation, Nairobi West, Cathedral, City Square, Muthurwa and Parklands substations. The project is funded by a twenty-year concessional loan from China Exim Bank.