Maize growers in the Rift Valley have been frustrated by the national grains agency which owes them Sh5 billion for produce delivered since December. They have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to help. The Treasury has released only Sh1 billion to clear part of the debt. "We have been promised the money will be paid but it has taken too long and we now urge the President to intervene," farmer Thomas Korgoren said. The farmers made their plea yesterday in Eldoret where they met Uasin Gishu Senator Margaret Kamar and Moiben MP Sila Tiren. The legislators said the government’s unfulfilled promises have hurt farmers. Some have reduced the acreage under maize. Kamar said she asked Treasury CS Henry Rotich and his Agriculture counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuri to speed up the payout. Kamar and Tiren who were speaking after a meeting with farmers representatives in Eldoret said. "Most farmers are unable to pay fees for their children or buy inputs. Many of them are repaying loans," Kamar said. Tiren said agriculture has been infiltrated by cartels causing farmers a lot of suffering. "The government knows the cartels because it has records of who imported maize and stocked the National Cereals and Produce Board depots. If I am one of them, then I should be named," the MP said. He accused the government of lying to farmers about better milk prices and distribution of subsidised fertiliser. A month ago, DP William Ruto directed that maize farmers be paid their outstanding debts immediately. The government would spend Sh12 billion on pending debts and to buy more grain. "Farmers need the funds to prepare their land on time for planting," Ruto said when opening a conference on agriculture. Meanwhile, police in Eldoret recovered more than 400 bags of stolen subsidised fertiliser at the home of a person whom they arrested. Eldoret East OCPD Richard Omanga said they also found hundreds of empty bags of fertiliser that may have been used or sold. Omanga said police investigating the fertiliser scam found the stock in a store in Chebarus village. They are looking for more suspects. Click here for the latest political news