Lawmakers and Cabinet Secretaries yesterday praised President Uhuru Kenyatta's State of the Nation Address, saying it was progressive and reconciliatory. Senate Majority leader Kipchumba Murkomen particularly praised Uhuru for preaching peace. He called on colleagues, both in the Senate and the National Assembly, to support the handshake deal between Uhuru and NASA leader Raila Odinga. Murkomen who spoke moments after Uhuru delivered his speech said politicians should compete on issues as opposed to tribal politics. Read: Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino “The speech was very reflective. The President emphasised the desire for Kenyans to go back to their roots and concentrate on values that unite us,” Murkomen said. The Elgeyo Marakwet senator said Kenyans have a feeling of inclusion in government affairs since the handshake. "The mood is very good because Uhuru's government policy reflects the aspiration of all Kenyans," Murkomen said. Uhuru delivered his address at a joint sitting of lawmakers in the National Assembly. National Assembly Majority whip Benjamin Washiali described the mood in the House as “the best ever.” He said he had never witnessed "such unity of purpose." The Mumias East MP described Uhuru's speech as inspirational. He also praised the government's Big Four development agenda. Uhuru called for honest leadership, saying corrupt state officials will be harshly dealt with. “The emphasis on forgiveness was also key. All Kenyans should do what the President said,” Washiali said. Washiali said Uhuru’s speech was anchored on the Jubilee manifesto adding that jubilee administration is committed to implementing every promise made in the speech. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko and his East African Community counterpart Peter Munya said the Uhuru's speech captured the mood of the nation. Tobiko said his ministry was ready for the Big Four roll-out. "The President delivered a very reassuring speech focusing on ethics and integrity," Tobiko said. “The speech is very re-assuring and it focused on ethics, integrity and the fight against corruption. These are the things all of us as Kenyans should be ready to ensure that they are done,” Tobiko said. The CS said politics of the 2022 general elections should not distract public servants from delivering their mandates. Munya praised Uhuru's call for reconciliation. "We should forgive each other and embrace national unity. Nobody is perfect,” Munya said. Also read: [State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 