Elgeyo
Marakwet leaders have accused the task force
formed by Deputy President William Ruto to review cause of Kenya's depleted forests of doing a shoddy job. Led by Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich, they said the team only collected views in major towns
instead of visiting forests. Rotich said
the task force did not tour Elgeyo Marakwet despite the county having the second
largest forest cover in the country after Nyeri. "We want to
tell the national government that the task force did not come to Elgeyo
Marakwet. It instead collected views in Eldoret [Uasin Gishu]," Rotich said. He spoke during the national
tree planting day on Saturday where at least
5,000 trees were planted in Kapchemutwa forest. "Since our county has 37 per cent forest cover, it was prudent for the task force to take views from community forest associations, sawmillers, and the
county government." The forest
conservation task force presented its report to the deputy president on April 30. Elgeyo
Marakwet was among counties whose forests including Kapchemutwa, Embobut, and Cherangany
were affected by activities of illegal loggers. Rotich asked
the Ministry of Environment to tour the county forests and talk to all
stakeholders before implementing the task force report. Community
forest association officials also criticised the
taskforce team saying it only criticised Kenya Forest Service without
highlighting some of the conservation achievements made by the service. "The team should have toured all major forests to establish the progress made
in conserving several forests instead of just condemning KFS," Christopher Chebii said. Read: Corrupt, incompetent KFS to blame for Kenya's depleted forests - task force David Kuto, another
official, said the task force erred in recommending the phasing out of
CFAs saying the recommendation will turn forests into government properties
and local communities locked out of forest management. According to
government open data, Elgeyo Marakwet had 37.49 per cent forest cover in 2015,
second after Nyeri which had 38.03 per cent. Other
counties with forest covers above 10 per cent include Baringo (25 per cent),
Kericho (23.55 per cent), Kirinyaga (20.68 per cent) and Bungoma (14.86 per
cent). Ruto said in Kapsowar, Marakwet West on Sunday that 130
million tree seedlings are available for planting this year. He said 130
million trees will be planted across the country annually, beginning this year. "I flew over
Embobut forest and Kaptagat forests and have been reduced to half due to
deforestation. The government is urging everyone to plant trees," the DP said. Also read: Forests task force wants KFS board out, lifestyle audit on senior officials Click here for the latest political news