Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula says his party is against the call for a referendum since it is a move meant to create positions for certain individuals and families. Without mentioning names, the legislator said Kenyans should first "seek ways of reforming the troubled IEBC which is rocked by disputes". He spoke when the party's women league converged in Seasons Hotel in Gilgil, Nakuru county over the weekend to plan the party's way forward. Wetang'ula, in a press briefing, said he wondered how the referendum would be carried out without a working electoral commission. "The IEBC currently constitutes of three commissioners, meaning that they cannot hold a referendum thus rendering the current calls as irrelevant," he said. Read: Uhuru should fix IEBC before he leaves office, says Weta The Bungoma Senator said that the planned referendum is meant to benefit some few individuals "yet Kenya needs other reforms and not Constitutional changes". "We want a united Kenya and we are opposed to ongoing plans to hold a referendum so that few individuals from certain families can get positions," he said. Wetangula said that the country should concentrate on revamping institutions of governance by strengthening and making them independent. "Instead of calling for a referendum, we should be seeking ways of supporting devolution, strengthening our security agents, and stop the ongoing corruption," he said. On the recent Uhuru-Raila handshake, Wetangula said all Kenyans should be involved adding that the party will make its position on the development known after a parliamentary group meeting. The Ford Kenya leader sent his condolences to the families who lost their kin following the Solai dam tragedy. Chair of the women league Cynthia Mutere said that the referendum process is geared towards perpetuating political dynasties. She said that the process needed to take cognisance of the interest of all Kenyans, with the involvement of persons with disability, women, and youths. The woman league further expressed disappointment with the move by NASA to strip Wetang'ula of the Senate minority leader position. Also read: Referendum risks dividing Kenyans further, Western Jubilee leaders caution Raila Click here for the latest political news