A traffic policeman on Kiambu road has become a nuisance to motorists who want Inspector General Joseph Boinnet to come to their rescue. The middle-aged cop, on motorbike, does not hide his extortion habit to road users and has set daily targets. Word has it that he keeps reminding PSV operators that he has to complete his master’s degree and a house in the village through ‘tax’ from road users. It is said he levies Sh1,000 from matatus and lorries and Sh500 on taxi drivers. Motorists are said to be planning the mother of all protests to the traffic headquarters against the policeman who operates from Mathare. ***** A leader whose election is the subject of an appeal has vowed that he will
lose the legal battle over his dead body. The politician who has been camping
in Nairobi for more than a week was recently heard declaring that he has a Sh500
million arsenal to face the battle. Even as he boasts of huge cash at his
disposal to retain his seat, back in his county a number of operational
activities have stalled due to lack of cash. Employees are crying foul over
delayed salaries and allowances and are unable to meet their needs, leave alone
keeping their children in schools. Contractors and suppliers have vowed to camp
in his office from next week till they are paid their dues. ***** Is there grand fraud at Nairobi City Water & Sewerage Company Ltd?
Sources whispered to Corridors that there is rampant falsification of customer
data including illegal change in meter records that is suspected to be with the
connivance of insiders. Its said that after falsifying the accounts, customers
are slapped with outrageous bills yet new accounts should be opened at zero
bills. A good example of the blatant fraud and impunity has been reported in
Buru Buru but the NCWSC has declined to act. It’s said the details of the
fraudsters including their pin numbers and telephone contacts are well kept in
the water firm's data base. ***** A mole tells Corridors that a city politician recently commissioned an
opinion poll on the performance of a rival. Two MPs speaking at Parliament
before arrival of President Uhuru Kenyatta's State of the Nation address last
week were heard saying that the politician was shocked to realise the
competitor is still a darling of the people. It's said the politician ordered
the results to remain a guarded secret. But the staff who carried out the research
have threatened to share the poll results for free with the rival after the
politician refused to pay them. Click here for the latest political news