Deputy President William Ruto has asked the judiciary to play a greater role in the fight against corruption if the vice has to be stopped. Speaking in Gilgil town on Saturday, Ruto urged courts to stop issuing anticipatory bails to those suspected to have committed offences. “We want to ask courts to explain how criminals can go to court, ask not to be prosecuted and they (courts) agree,” Ruto said. “Those behind the NYS and NCPB scandals should be punished. We ask the judiciary to do its part,” Ruto said. He further asked the investigating agencies to do a thorough job so that the courts can take action on those involved. “We are asking those dealing with investigations and prosecutions that they have no reason why they should not prosecute anybody, whatever connections they have because President Uhuru and I have given firm instructions on issues of corruption.” The DP told those who benefitted from the NCPB payments for maize delivered and were not farmers to be ready to face the law. Read; Omollo: Waiguru, Mangiti to blame for NYS scandal He assured Kenyans that those NCPB officials who colluded with cartels to deprive farmers of their rightful pay would not escape prosecution. “Those who know they are not farmers and bend the laws in collaboration with government offices to beat genuine maize farmers should be ready to face the law. These issues of corruption must come to an end. Those behind the corrupt activities must be held to account. They will not escape,” Ruto said. Speaking at the same function, a section of MPs urged the Assets Recovery Agency and the Criminal Investigations Department to freeze bank accounts and assets of all those believed to be responsible for corruption in the country. The legislators said all assets belonging to those behind corrupt activities at the National Youth Service (NYS) and National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) should be seized. The MPs were Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Martha Wangari (Gilgil), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Liza Chelule (Nakuru), nominated Wiper MP Sammy Seroney, Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira) and Patrick Munene (Chuka Igamba Ngombe). Others were Kuria Kimani (Molo), Charity Kathambi (Molo) and David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East). “It is time we act tough on individuals responsible for corruption activities in this country. We should start by freezing the assets of those engaging in corruption and such property returned to the people,” Kihika said. The Nakuru Senator added that with wanton corruption, attaining the Big Four Agenda would be a challenge. Kihika said those engaging in corruption in NYS were robbing the youths of their future. The legislators took issue with the manner in which the judiciary was handling corruption cases, saying the ‘big fish’ were being handed lenient sentences while petty offenders were being punished heavily. “Our courts should be tough on these corruption cases. Judiciary must play its rightful role in the fight against corruption,” Kositany said. “To restore law and order in this country, all those corrupt individuals must be held responsible by being prosecuted,” Kihika said. Also read; How 23 NYS scandal suspects walked free Click here for the latest political news