Jubilee MCAs have hit out at EALA MP Simon Mbugua for claiming that politicians supporting DP William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid are being threatened. The Nairobi ward representatives have accused the former Kamukunji MP of dragging the DP's name into his personal woes. “We all support the DP but we have never been threatened by anybody so Mbugua should carry his own cross and leave the DP out of this," Majority Leader Abdi Guyo said on Tuesday. Mbugua, who was charged  last week with robbery with violence over an attack of city businessman
Timothy Muriuki, blamed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho for his troubles. He claimed Kibicho and other State House officials were intimidating and
silencing him and other politicians who are in support of the Deputy President's ambition. He also claimed Kibicho was using police to frustrate him because of his closeness with Governor Mike Sonko. Details: [VIDEO] Simon Mbugua claims his life is in danger for backing Ruto's 2022 bid Also read: Interior PS Kibicho behind my woes, claims Mbugua But during a press conference at City Hall, Guyo accused Mbugua of attempting to rock Jubilee Party. "He should not drag the name of the DP and Governor into his personal woes. We will not allow him to do that because what he is trying to do is cause division and chaos within our party." Meanwhile, the Jubilee ward representatives have also told off their Opposition counterparts for reprimanding Sonko over his delay to name a Deputy Governor. On Monday, Nasa MCAs gave Sonko a seven-day ultimatum to nominate a deputy
or he face legal action. Guyo said: "These people
should know their roles. The county is running smoothly and the Constitution is clear on the roles of the Deputy GovernoR. They do delegated functions." He further said the county is running smoothly as the Governor has a team of
professionals who advise him. On Monday, Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok said the county was in a mess because
Sonko lacks a deputy to advise him. “We see how the
county iS; garbage everywhere, roads are in bad condition and all the
blame is directed at the Governor. He needs a deputy to advise him
and do some of these jobs, especially the supervisory ones,” Imwatok said. But Guyo said the Governor should not be compelled to name a deputy, Sonko should instead
be given time to decide on the person he can work best with. “Which department
is not functional because there is no Deputy Governor? We are being treated to sideshows,"Guyo said. According to a research by Tifa, Nairobians have given Sonko 44 per cent, or a D+, on service delivery. The county was the last of three cities that were surveyed, the other two being Kisumu (Anyang' Nyong'o) and Mombasa (Hassan Joho). More on this: Nairobians give Sonko D+ on service delivery Related: Will Sonko's Nairobi regeneration team resign for failing Uhuru? Click here for the latest political news