A clean-up of parastatals under the Agriculture ministry is underway. Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday said he will fire careless individuals who break the law. “People should not politicise issues affecting Kenyans, especially the small-scale farmers,” he said. Kiunjuri said he has cleaned up the Agricultural and Food Authority (AFA) by moving director Alfred Busolo and other senior managers who have been working in an acting capacity for more than five years. This week, the ministry suspended eight senior managers at the National Cereals and Produce Board, as managing director Newton Terer resigned on Sunday. Read: CS Kiunjuri promises to protect farmers from devious traders Read Also: CEO Newton Terer resigns from NCPB amid probe on illegal maize imports Kiunjuri spoke at a stakeholders’ meeting on armyworm at the Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service headquarters in Karen. The CS said once he cleans up the mess at the NCPB, he will move to the Kenya Meat Commission. Last month, Agriculture recorded a drop in growth from 5.1 per cent to 1.6 per cent, an Economic survey data showed. There was an overall decline in production due to drought, the fall army worm and diseases. Despite the reduced production of major crops during the period under review, all the produce sold locally and internationally earned better prices. The CS said an audit of the cereals board showed some managers collude with traders to swindle money and exploit farmers. He cited 10 traders who were paid Sh1.9 billion, while 5,000 farmers went unpaid. The report, the CS said, also showed business people who delivered maize by December had been paid 80 per cent of their dues by February, but not the farmers. “The audit showed one trader sold 212,000 bags of maize to the NCPB. No officer at the depot questioned this,” Kiunjuri said. He said the ministry has the trader’s ID card number and will investigate the size of the farm. In March, Rift Valley farmers protested after the NCPB suspended collection of maize because depots were full. They demonstrated at the Eldoret depot and gave management a week to solve their problems. The farmers had queued for hours to deliver their produce only to find the gates of the Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge and Kitale depots locked. Read: PS Lesiyampe suspends eight NCPB bosses Click here for the latest political news