Kenyans are paying up to five times more for power transaction costs through agents compared to buying directly from Kenya Power, the regulator has revealed. It further indicated that 80 per cent of what Kenyans pay go to taxes, tokens account for only 20 per cent depending on availability of water in hydro dams. This damming revelation is likely to spark off public outcry with Kenyans reporting high power bills, with some doubled or tripled in recent months Speaking when they appeared before the Senate Committee on Energy, PS Energy Joseph Njoroge, Kenya Power MD Ken Tarus and Energy Regulatory Commission director general Pavel Oimeke were at pains to explain why they have allowed agents and telecommunication firms to exploit consumers. This was after Tarus revealed that 15 agents have been contracted to sell electricity tokens. He was however quick to add that they are encouraging customers to buy directly from Kenya power. “Customers only incur Sh11 in transaction costs when buying Sh1,000 worth of power tokens directly from us. This is because Kenya Power pays Sh22 for them. They are however forced to shoulder the whole burden when buying through our vendors,’’ Tarus told the meeting. He explained that Kenya Power is considering leveraging on technology to boost its meter reading ability and revenue collection. Currently Kenya Power collects 65 per cent of its total revenue while the remaining 35 per cent is collected by agents. This comes at a time when the names of two firms, (VendiT Limited and Dynamo) purportedly contracted by Kenya Power are under scrutiny by the publiic on social media, with Kenyans on Twitter and Facebook users questioning how they were contracted to handle the lucrative business. He attributed the recent squabbles in the sector emanating from erroneous billing to faulty meters and inability to capture exact meter reading, stating that the issue has since been sorted out and affected customers compensated. “We have been billing based on estimates. This led to debit billing that affected few customers. Faulty meters which are purely technical issue also contributed to the crisis. We have since improved our meter reading to 95 per cent,’’ said Tarus. Incensed by the explanation, Narok Senator Ole Kina Ledama asked the energy team to explain the relevance of contracting agents to help in revenue collection and how much those agents where being paid by the power man. “Can the team tell this committee how much Kenya Power is paying revenue collection agents and if it is making economic sense? We want specific break downs,’’ said Ledama. Tarus explained that Kenya Power used to incur Sh910 million every year to collect revenue. The introduction of vendors saw this drop to Sh75 million per year and is currently incurring only Sh25 million after bringing mobile money services on board. “We have three types of agents: single agents, multiple and super aggregators who are paid a commission of 2.5-3.5 per cent of whatever they collect for Kenya Power,’’ said Tarus. The Senator Ephraim Maina-led committee was however perplexed to learn that taxes are taking up to 80 per cent of total power bill, a move that saw the attention shift from Kenya Power manager to ERC director general Pavel Oimeke. This was after Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot and his Turkana counterpart Imana Malachy Ekal demand for a breakdown on what constitutes power bill in the country. Oimeke explained that fixed energy charges take 24.8 per cent while thermal or fuel cost which varies due to water levels is currently taking 27.7 per cent of total bill. VAT, forex and Inflation take 13.6, 8 and 3 per cent respectively while Water Resource Authority take 0.1 per cent of the total cost. He however said that Kenyans should expect lower bills starting July this year when tariffs will be harmonized. Oimeke appealed to the committee to table a bill in parliament that will see VAT on power scrapped.