Surveyors on Wednesday faulted Kericho county for purportedly closing The Survey of Kenya offices. The county allegedly closed the offices to have survey services offered by the surveyors registered by the county government. But the Institute of Surveyors of Kenya vehemently opposed the move saying it amounts to gagging its members. ISK chairman Abraham Samoei said by directing the licensed surveyors who want to practice in the county be registered is seeking to usurp the role of professional regulation of lands by responsible cabinet secretary through the land surveyor’s board. “We wish to inform the Kericho county government and the wider general public that national mapping and surveying functions encompass many national functions which can only be effectively carried out by the national office,” Samoei said. “We advise the governor to revoke the executive order and engage the ISK as well as the Directorate of the survey at the national government to address emerging issues related to survey within the county.” The functions include mapping of international and county boundaries which is a national and international security function. Others include registration of title deeds and control as per the national lands policy and quality control of professional services in the lands and surveying sector among others. Samoei said regulation of professionals in the lands sector – surveyors, physical planners, valuers, estates agents and other related professionals is a preserve of the of the Lands CS. “Therefore, licensed surveyors and other duly accredited professional registered by the Lands Surveyors Board who are members of ISK reject the illegal move to introduce devolved regulation of our professional practice,” he said. Speaking to media in Nairobi Samoei clarified that the offices in the counties and sub-counties have been set up to bring national government services close to citizens in every county. He, therefore, added that the closure of the survey office at Kericho has negatively affected the members of the public. Click here for the latest political news