Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire yesterday said his life is in danger after some of his close allies received threats. Mwambire said strange cars have been trailing him, raising his fears. Speaking in Kilifi, the ODM legislator said his political stand and zeal to fight corruption in his constituency are the reasons for his predicament. "I have a firm stand on the political situation at the Coast and specifically about the much-hyped coast unity. It has come to my attention some of my colleagues advocating for Coast unity are being pushed by certain forces outside the region. I am not ready to sell my people to the highest bidder. That has been my stand," Mwambire said. He said some cartels in Ganze are back and are now fighting his efforts to ensure good service delivery to the residents. He said he blocked cartels that had milked the constituency development kitty before he was elected. "Some of the corrupt people have ganged up and want me removed from my seat. I will not sit back and watch. I will take them head on," he said. But police in Kilifi said the MP was yet to record a statement concerning his allegations. Kilifi county police boss Fredrick Ochieng’ said he had heard the news of the legislator’s threats from the media. Threats to one’s life must be reported to the nearest police station to allow for investigations, the officer said. "I have heard from the media that Mwambire has been threatened. I have no report on the same and the best thing for him is to report the incident at Ganze to start a probe," Ochieng’ said. "Nobody has the right to threaten another person’s life. We can, however, only investigate after the MP presents himself to the police and records a statement with us. If that has not happened, then we are forced to believe he is politicking," Ochieng’ said. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said he was unaware of any threats to his colleague’s life. He said as members of the orange party he shares the same stand with Mwambire on important issues and he has a good working relationship with him. But he knows nothing about anyone threatening the Ganze legislator. "If he has received any threats to his life, which he has not informed us of, I will be glad to accompany him to the police and report the matter. Any threat to life must be taken seriously, otherwise I will assume he is playing politics," Baya said. Click here for the latest political news