The UK-based analytics company hired British barrister Julian Malins to carry out an audit on its operations and those of its American subsidiary Cambridge Analytica. Former Cambridge Analytica political strategist Dan Muresan, who in 2012 was found dead in a Kenyan hotel, was head of elections for SCL, which was running Uhuru's campaign in the run-up to the 2013 polls. Malins' report, however, states that SCL interviewed 47,000 voters over three months, both in 2013 and 2017 to identify issues of public interest. The interviews were carried out with the help of local research companies, who used volunteers to collect data on voters. SCL used the interview results to rebrand Jubilee. The Jubilee Coalition was in 2013 still an alliance between Kenyatta's TNA and William Ruto's URP. “These interviews were carried out both in 2013 and in 2017 by local volunteers, each of whom were provided with an Android tablet and who undertook the interviewing. Based upon voter surveys, SCL was able to help in rebranding Mr Uhuru Kenyatta’s party and in writing its manifestos,” Malins' report says. SCL provided documents and information to Malins for the probe. President Uhuru Kenyatta in an interview with CNN's Christiane Amanpour on April 22 denied that his Jubilee Party ever hired SCL to manage its campaigns. Last month, Jubilee Party vice chairman David Murathe said that SCL was only hired to help with branding services, and that the UK-firm had no active role on the campaign trail. Murathe's claim was in response to a feature story airing on UK's Channel 4 News. In that story reporters posed as fixers hired by Sri Lankan politicians. The reporters recorded Cambridge Analytica Managing Director Mark Turnbull confirming that the company had worked for Uhuru Kenyatta, and helped sway other polls in Nigeria and India. Malins insists, however, there is no evidence that SCL had any role in using illegal tactics to sway the 2013 and 2017 elections in Kenyatta's favour. The Briton argues that he was unable to find any proof that SCL was behind inflammatory videos and online forums that painted NASA flagbearer Raila Odinga in bad light to help rival Kenyatta. Read:Cambridge Analytica-linked firm 'boasted of poll interference' The report says that the videos were “created and distributed by a media company which is wholly unconnected to SCL and CA”. The company said that it was ceasing operations and filing for bankruptcy, having lost a number of its clients following concerns that it used Facebook to mine data on voters in several countries and later used the information to help sway polls. Its use of Facebook information, though not illegal, created a scandal in the US and there were claims that data was used to influence the US election in favour of Donald Trump. “Despite Cambridge Analytica’s unwavering confidence that its employees have acted ethically and lawfully, which view is now fully supported by Mr Malins’ report, the siege of media coverage has driven away virtually all of the Company’s customers and suppliers. As a result, it has been determined that it is no longer viable to continue operating the business, which left Cambridge Analytica with no realistic alternative to placing the Company into administration,” the firm said. CA, a British company, is owned by American billionaire Robert Mercer and alt-right former Trump adviser Steve Bannon. It has been credited with playing a big role in US President Donald Trump's victory over Hillary Clinton in 2016. Also Read:Cambridge Analytica shuts down after Facebook scandal Click here for the latest political news