Turkana Leaders have condemned Friday's Kapedo attack that claimed lives of three students and a driver who were shot dead by suspected Pokot bandits. The four were heading to school from Marigat to Kapedo through Ameyan route when they were ambushed by the bandits and shot dead. The leaders led by Senator Malichy Ekal, MPs Ali Lokiru and James Lomenen Turkana East and South respectively, condemned the heinous act. Read:Six dead, three injured in Kapedo bandit attack "Many people mistakenly say that problem between the border of Turkana and West Pokot is cattle rustling but it is not The vehicle ferrying students to school didn't have cattle," Ekal said. He said the Pokot community should come out clearly and say what they want from the Turkana. He said the bullets used in the killings are allegedly owned by the government. "During the state of Nation, President Uhuru Kenyatta said Kenya is safe. Citizens are not safe Mr. President. Innocent people are bleeding at the hands of primitive communities bordering Turkana and its time for the government to disarm them," he said. Read:Five dead, several injured in fresh Kapedo attacks Ekal said the security personnel should speed up the investigations and arrest culprits behind the attack. Lokiru said they have lost their people through an act that is perpetrated by the politicians who are not ready for peace. "I personally made an appeal to Deputy president William Rutto about the cries of Kapedo people who are under siege and cant access food. He assured us we won't cry for security because it is our right." Lokiru said. He said, few days after the assurance of security the KDF vehicle was attacked at Kapedo and some officers injured yet no action was done. Read:Fresh Kapedo attacks leave seven dead, several injured Lomenen blamed the laxity of the National government to protect people of Kapedo. "Its the role of the government to ensure every citizen has right to live. Suspected Pokot bandits have turned Kapedo to be hotspot whereby they kill police officers and innocent people and nothing happens."He said.