EALA legislator Simon Mbugua and two other suspects yesterday denied robbery with violence charges in a Nairobi court. Mbugua, Antony Ombok alias Jamal and Benjamin Odhiambo alias Odhis denied the charge before senior principal magistrate Martha Mutuku. They were released on a cash bail of Sh200,000. The three are accused of being behind last week’s beating of former former business lobby chairman Timothy Muriuki at Hotel Boulevard. The former chairman of the Nairobi Central Business District Association had called a press conference on the state of affairs in Nairobi. Read: Simon Mbugua, two others arrested over attack on NCBDA ex-chair Timothy Muriuki Another suspect Stephen Sangira, who is linked to the assault, was released on a cash bail of Sh100,000 pending investigations. There was no charge sheet against Sangira, but police wanted the businessman held for seven days for further probe. Investigating officer Francis Mwita told court they require at least a week to carry out an identification parade before charging Sangira, who appeared in a different court. Mwita said Sangira was being investigated over  other offences committed in the city. However, senior resident magistrate Miriam Mugure rejected the plea. She said the time sought was unreasonable since the prosecution did not adduce evidence to support their claims. The prosecution did not oppose the bail application. Prosecutor Solomon Naulikha said the three should be released on stringent bail terms. He argued that Mbugua is an influential politician who is likely to interfere with witnesses. The prosecutor said police are still pursuing other suspects who are yet to be charged. Lawyers Nelson Havi, Cliff Ombeta and Harun Ndubi for the suspects told the court the claims by the prosecution could not hold water. Havi said Mbugua should be given free bond. “As a public officer he is more than cooperative,” the lawyer said. Mutuku said though the allegations against the suspects are serious, there was no evidence to suggest they were a flight risk or they would interfere with witnesses. The trial begins on May 23. Read also: Mbugua, co-accused in Muriuki attack case freed on Sh200,000 bail Click here for the latest political news