Did the National Assembly Agriculture Committee fail in probing Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday over the multi-billion maize scandal? Well, Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter who attended the grilling session as a friend of the committee appeared frustrated with the manner in which members were asking questions. The outspoken lawmaker was first halted by chairman Adan Haji Ali (Mandera South) when he requested to ask a question before other members. He was allowed limited opportunity to hurl some questions at the CS before walking out in frustration. “Hapa hakuna committee,” protested the MP. ***** Why can’t the Jubilee administration devolve the anti-graft war to the counties if it is committed to fight corruption? Well, ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire argues that plunder of public resources is flourishing at the counties yet the national government has looked the other way. “Nothing would demonstrate the government’s anti-graft war more than devolving the war to the counties,” said the former Kitutu Masaba MP. Many Kenyans are still wondering if the fight is just cosmetic or another game of musical chairs that will lead to nothing. Why are the real culprits roaming large? So they ask. And for how long will the government sustain the war? Only time will tell. ***** The political supremacy battles between Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru and area Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici are far from over. And the matter has continued to elicit mixed feelings among residents. Some locals took to social media expressing their regrets for electing the two leaders. Recently, supporters of Wangui were blocked from accessing the Kianyaga Children’s Home where they had gone to deliver items for the needy children. A mole confided to Corridors that the county authorities directed security officials to bar the team from accessing the facility without following proper channels. ***** Still on the maize scandal, did you know that the government had purposed to spend Sh7 billion to purchase maize from farmers for its strategic reserve but ended up spending Sh11 billion? Well, the Sh7 billion was the highest amount that the government has ever set for the programme, according to Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. “The budget provision for the purchase of maize was Sh7 billion, the highest ever set aside by the government. But we spent Sh11 billion. Out of the Sh11 billion, Corridors has learned, eight traders received Sh1.4 billion for maize supplies. Well, Kenyans have been urged to wait for EACC, DCI and other investigative agencies to complete investigations on the matter. “Until when?” Corridors is tempted to ask.