Back when I was a young man, I was a riot, a walking talking laugh, a minute comedy act. I would come across random sights and almost always a funny thought would pop into my head. It was a gift, one I only shared with the ladies, obviously. I mean, what was the payoff in making dudes laugh? Anyway, one time I was on my way to see this girl when I came across some chap talking on his phone using an earpiece. Mind you this was around the time hands-free technology had just checked into the scene, and I’m not talking about wireless and Bluetooth tech; I’m talking a wire running up from the phone to a headset that very much resembled that of a telemarketer. Needless to say, back then it was all very strange and new seeing someone walking, and talking on the phone without a phone to his ear. So, I get to the chick’s place and I say hey, I just thought of a nicer way to say that someone is nuts and they talk to themselves. And she said, ‘Oh?’ So I said, ‘Yeah. Instead of saying Joe is nuts and he talks to himself, it’s nicer to say Joe is hands-free.’ Get it? From afar, hands-free does look like you’re talking to yourself, which would suggest an unbalanced mind. Doesn’t matter if you get it; the chick did and she thought it was hilarious. “If you can make a woman laugh, you can make her do anything.” – Marilyn Monroe. The point I’m making is there was a time I thought talking to yourself out loud was definitely a sign of mental illness. But not anymore. It’s not nuts to talk to yourself. We all do, actually, in most cases under our breath but sometimes loud enough that everyone can hear. Like when you stub a toe, it’s likely you’ll have a few obscene things to say quite loudly. Some even go as far as to have deep, meaningful conversations with themselves, out loud. I can’t argue that this is not creepy, but I will say it’s not crazy, necessarily. Talking to yourself is good for you. It’s a stress reliever and it plays a role in keeping our minds fit. It helps us organise our thoughts, plan, consolidate memory and most importantly, modulate our emotions. In other words, it helps us control ourselves, and when you do it out loud, it actually improves that control. Think about it, you go bungee jumping, you’re standing at the edge, about to jump, you will certainly say something to yourself. Simply hearing yourself, the auditory command, helps you control whatever extreme feelings you’re having: fear, anxiety, anger, excitement. When you talk to yourself, especially during a challenging task, it helps you focus to perform better. Sports professionals, often at crucial points of the game, are prone to this. I’m sure you’ve noticed footballers, strikers especially, talk to themselves quite a bit when they miss scoring the winning goal. Talking to yourself is not crazy. In fact, we could all do with a good positive self chat, especially in this age of social media, where what others say about you in comments and likes is overshadowing what you say about yourself. So, have you had any good conversations with yourself lately?