Kenya is among five African countries that will benefit from a satellite technology that will help it address food security and other issues relating to agriculture, deforestation, and water access. This follows the launch of the Africa Regional Data Cube in Nairobi on Thursday. The launch comes just a day before Kenya makes history by deploying its first locally made satellite into space on Friday from Tsukuba Space Center in Japan. The 10 by 10 centimetre Nano-satellite was developed by students and researchers at the University of Nairobi in partnership with Japanese Space Agency (JAXA). The African Data Cube was developed by the Committee on Earth Observation Satellites (CEOS) in partnership with the Group on Earth Observations, Amazon Web Services, Office of the Deputy President, Strathmore University and the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data. Other countries set to benefit from the venture are Senegal, Sierra Leone, Ghana, and Tanzania. The data cube will allow countries to understand crop distribution, changing seasons and offer insights on how best to use of agricultural land in rural areas and how to better protect forests and water towers. Read: State talks food security but agriculture cash low DP William Ruto said the government will use the data in achieving success in food security, which is one of the pillars in the Big Four Agenda. Other components of the ambitious blueprint are manufacturing, universal healthcare and affordable housing. “This technology will help us understand month by month how our land is being used so that we can target interventions aimed at improving our actions against climate change, help smallholder farmers, and secure sustainable food and water for our citizens,” Ruto said. Ghana‘s Vice President Dr. Mahamudu Bawumia said, "This innovation has the potential to boost our economy, help enhance agricultural production and our efforts to tackle malnutrition in Ghana." Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said the data cube will allow governments to address climate-related challenges and better understand crop distribution, changing seasons, as well as better, protect its forests and water towers. He said it will also help particularly the Kenyan government plan on how well to use land in the rural areas where most small-scale farmers are found. “It is the small-scale farmers who rely heavily on rain-fed agriculture, the livestock farmer who rears cattle and must search even harder for pasture, it is the ordinary women and men who must now deal with new diseases that result from global warming. “It is, therefore, our belief that the Africa Regional Data Cube will allow governments to address climate-related challenges,” Tobiko said. The CS said that there is a need for the use of the critical resource to move from being mere boardroom discussion to the villages and homes to meet the everyday challenges posed by climate change on the lives of ordinary citizens. African countries, like other developing nations, have traditionally lacked the capacity to use data to assess land and water resources for purposes of boosting agricultural production. This is despite satellite data being largely available and whose use can lead to smarter, waste less, efficient and effective farm production. The entry of the Africa Regional Data Cube, however, now provides an opportunity for satellite analysis that allows easy evaluation and understanding of environmental changes such as urbanization, deforestation, and crop formation over time a period of time. This sought of accurate data analysis will enable governments to address its agricultural needs and develop strategies to meet international initiatives such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and support the upcoming 2020 round of censuses in African countries. “These five countries are in the vanguard of data for sustainable development. With their example, we hope that we can broaden access to the data cube across the continent so more countries can benefit from this fantastic solution,” Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data CEO Claire Melamed said. Apart from Agriculture, statistical agencies, geographic institutes, research scientists and the civil society also stand to benefit from this new technology. Also read: Disband NCPB for food security  Click here for the latest political news