A short road connects Moi Avenue to Tom Mboya Street behind Imenti House in Nairobi. It is named after the eminent African revolutionary theorist and organiser Amilcar Cabral. Born in Guinea Bissau and an agriculturalist by training, Cabral’s activism was the most important force in dismantling Portuguese colonial rule in Africa.  Long before Kenya’s top man of letters Ngugi wa Thiong’o called for a cultural revolution he described as “decolonising the mind”, Cabral had proposed “reconversion of minds” as the essential component of Africa liberation. It was not enough that the coloniser had left. It was absolutely necessary that Africans “re-membered” (Ngugi’s term) what the imperialists had dismembered (or scattered). African liberation was futile, Cabral argued, if it was not grounded in culture. Liberation must seek as its ultimate objective the restoration of African cultural life that was destroyed by the coloniser. Today, no one disputes that European colonialism in Africa succeeded almost entirely through ruthless repression of African cultures. Those thieves did not just grab African resources. They demonised the ways of our people and imposed upon us their own worldviews through (mis)education, religion, commerce, arts, etcetera. Yet a look at Kenyan media reveals a lingering colonial schizophrenia around the concept of culture. Some stories on culture depict nostalgia for the days of yore, as if culture is an unchanging artifact. Culture in this sense refers to everything from the past: Music, proverbs, food, customs, dress, tools, architecture and so on. Their present equivalents are generally not seen as culture. And then there are the media stories that attribute nearly every vice and evil tendency to ‘culture’. One often hears of phrases like ‘harmful cultural practices’, ‘retrogressive cultures’, or even the ‘culture of corruption’ and other bad behaviours. But this view of culture is narrow and misleading. To Cabral, writing in 1970, culture reflects the ideas of the physical and historical reality of a society. “Culture is simultaneously the fruit of a people’s history and a determinant of history, by the positive or negative influence which it exerts on the evolution of relationships between man and his environment, among men or groups of men within a society, as well as among different societies.” Do media people understand this? Hardly. A recent story in the Daily Nation newspaper bore the headline, Widows say ‘no’ to culture, ‘yes’ to economic freedom. Apparently, culture is incompatible with economic freedom. The story is about four women in Homa Bay who came together to make efficient stoves that use less charcoal, thus promoting conservation. But the women are not just interested in a healthy environment and earning a living. According to the report, they are widows who have rejected the custom of being inherited — hence the headline. But not a sentence about widow inheritance is given in the story. Everyone is assumed to understand that it is a repugnant practice especially linked to the spread of HIV. Like many African cultural practices covered by the media, widow inheritance is poorly understood. It is often viewed negatively from a totalising western perspective that already condemns everything African. It doesn’t matter what those who practice it say. The custom is indefensible. But no one would question a widow who today chooses to remarry. In fact, counsellors and other know-it-alls encourage remarriage as an act of closure to get on with one’s life. Yet African ideas on the same are condemned wholesale. All cultures are adaptive systems for managing life. Cultural beliefs and practices must be understood in context. They are negotiable propositions rather than immutable, eternal truths. There are no superior cultures. Every culture has its own objective weaknesses. Certain customs have been abused. But cultures are not static or cast in stone. They are open systems. Every culture contains within it the seeds of change. Blanket media attacks on African cultures are mostly ignorant and suggest residual self-hate due to colonialism. Cabral still urges us to decolonise our minds.