Mbunge la mwananchi on Tuesday defended governor Mike Sonko saying the goons who assaulted NCBDA chairman Timothy Muriuki at a City hotel on Monday were not working for the governor. Muriuki was beaten up and frogmarched out of the venue by the goons who accused him of intending to make a statement aimed at tarnishing Sonko's name. "We know them. They are former employees of the county and we will assist police to arrest them," Mbunge la Mwannchi President Henry Shitanda said. Addressing media at the Jevanjee gardens, Shitanda said the acts of the goons were criminal and the perpetrators must be held to count. "We want good roads, we want the city to be clean and water in our taps. Those people derailing Sonko are in pursuit of their political interests and we will stand by the governor and correct him where he is wrong," Shitanda said. Read: [VIDEO] CBD association chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' Shitanda said their support for Sonko is conditional and the Mbunge la Mwannchi will continue the spot checks on development and criticism "so that the governor can see where he is wrong and correct for the good of the county". Mihang'o ward administrator John Ambok denounced the ugly incident at the Boulevard Hotel and said neither Sonko nor the county government was involved. He termed the goons as detractors of Sonko. Ambok said Sonko has done a lot for the city in the eight months he has been in office and should be given time perform his duties. The heavily built men said Muriuki was a conman hired by people out to tarnish the name of Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. They roughed him up, tore the statement sheet and dragged him away by the collar of his coat, just as he started reading the statement. “We will not allow you to mess the governor’s name for political mileage. You will not criticise the governor. You won’t. This press briefing is not going to happen, I am assuring you of that,” one goon said. The goons forced him out of the hotel’s gate where a larger group was waiting. They tore his coat, punched and kicked him before he managed to run to the nearby Norfolk Towers for safety. Muriuki was later escorted to the Central police station by GSU officers manning KBC gates. He recorded a statement. Also read: Sonko goons disrupt forum meant to ‘tarnish his image’  Click here for the latest political news 