Suspended Kenya Forest Service Service senior managers should be immediately reinstated and any fresh action be procedurally done, a departmental Committee on environment and natural resources has said. The committee on a report tabled before the national assembly on Thursday said the suspension of KFS senior managers was "done illegally and procedurally by the Chairman of KFS Board. "On issues of good governance, the Chairman of Kenya Forest Service Board of Directors was noted to have acted in contravention of law and guiding principles such as Mwongozo Code of Governance for State Corporations. For instance, the Board Chairperson suspended KFS officers without regard to the KFS Human Resource Manual, the State Corporations Act, (Cap. 446) and the Forest Conservation and Management Act, 2016," the committee said in the report. Read: House team reads mischief in KFS officials suspension The committee said former KFS board chairperson Peter Kinyua was essentially performing the duties of the organization’s management and KFS Board. "He acted as though he was an executive Chairperson which he was not. The Chairperson of the Board unilaterally made decisions on behalf of the Board and did not afford an opportunity to be heard to those affected by the suspension. There was no formal Board meeting that was held as required by the law and the Mwongozo Code of Governance for State Corporations before the affected senior officers were sent on compulsory leave," part of the report says. Additionally, the committee said in the report that Kinyua contravened the law by running a hotel inside the Karura forest, in a move that led to a conflict of interest. "The Chairperson of the Board operated a private hotel at Karura Forest. There was an illegality in the collection of revenue at Karura Forest by the “Friends of Karura” instead of the KFS. This was in violation of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012," the board said. Kinyua while appearing before the committee admitted that the hotel was being run by his wife. However, he said, the hotel was in operation one and a half year before he was appointed to join the board. A board member, however, confided to the Star that the hotel generates at least Sh 5 million shillings that never goes to KFS. "The gate and other activities alone generates Sh 42 million per year. These monies are never accounted for neither remitted to the government through KFS,"a board member told the Star. Chief Conservator of Forests, Emilio Mugo was suspended on March 12 after a tour of Thogoto Forest, Ngong Road Forest, Oloolua Forest and Kibiko Forest. Senior Manager, Finance and Administration Patrick Nyaga was sent on compulsory leave commencing on February 26 to pave way for investigations into allegations of non-facilitation of field operations especially with regard to vehicle maintenance and fueling. His letter was signed by the KFS Board chairman, the committee report says. Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests, North Rift  Dedan Gatiki was interdicted for gross misconduct through a letter dated March 14. The interdiction was on account of allowing a debt of Sh 40,500,000 to accrue in Elgeyo Marakwet County without taking any action. His letter was signed by the Kinyua. Other officers suspended are Boniface Simiyu, Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests, Plantations and Enterprise, Francis Kariuki, Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests (Eastern Conservancy, Embu) and Cosmas Ikiugu, Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests (Central Highlands). Public plantation forest areas occupy 135,871 Ha and are distributed in 24 Counties across the country. These forests generate over Sh3 Billion annually to the exchequer in form of revenues and support the development of the wood-based industries. One of the key strategies being used in Forest Plantation development was Shamba system which had been rebranded and renamed Plantation Establishment and Livelihood Improvement Scheme (PELIS). The Scheme allowed forest adjacent communities to grow food crops as Kenya Forest Service establishes forest plantations. There are 23,621Ha currently under PELIS providing food to 450,000 House Holds. Among those who gave their submissions to the committee include Nakuru County, Governor, Lee Kinyanjui, Nyandarua County Governor Francis Kimemia, Nyandarua County Ecosystem Conservator Jenniffer Situma, Timber Manufacturers Association Chairman Benson  Kimani, Walter Ogada, a representative of Timsales Limited and Members of the Community Forest Associations. Environment and Forestry, CS Keriako Tobiko also gave submissions. The committee observed that countries like Uganda, Vietnam, Colombia and Uruguay had embraced private commercial plantations with a proper enabling environment and good policies which increased the forest cover in those countries and attracted investments in the industry. It also observed that Community Forest Association consisting of people living around the forest played a key role in forest conservation and management. However, despite many dedicated years of service and hard labour in forest conservation, they reaped very little from their efforts. With these challenges, some CFAs tended to collude with the forest rangers in forest destruction. Further, the committee observed that the KFS, the Kenya Wildlife Service and the Kenya Water Tower Agency had their shared mandate in the forest resulting in a conflict of function among the three agencies. The committee has recommended that KFS withdraws from commercial plantations and gradually converts the 134,000 hectares of commercial plantation into the natural forest by restoring the cleared land with indigenous trees. Subsequently, the Executive should create new natural forest boundaries with Nyayo Tea Zones in order to create buffer zones. It has also tasked Environment and Forestry ministry to provide incentives, enabling policies and other relevant interventions to private commercial forest plantation in order to increase the forest cover and to promote timber industry. KEFRI and KFS should be adequately funded and supported to develop high quality indigenous and exotic tree seedlings and nurseries in order to restore government forest land and to promote private commercial plantation. on forest Degradation, punitive penalties should be entrenched in law to curb forest destruction and illegal logging. Further, the committee says, Forest Conservation and Management Act (No. 34 of 2016) should be amended to provide for punitive penal provisions. The committee says Kenya should take advantage and claim carbon credits to help in her efforts at a forest and general ecosystem conservation. Last week, a report by the task force that investigated forest activities released on Monday last week showed Kenya's major water towers has been massively destructed due to excision, settlements established without following due process, encroachment, illegal logging and unsustainable grazing. Also read: KFS on the spot for 'wrongful' suspension of senior officers  Click here for the latest political news