Sports Chief Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor has withdrawn an election appeal against a decision that upheld Mandera Governor Ali Roba’s win. His lawyer Tom Ojienda filed a notice at the Court of Appeal. “We refer to the matter scheduled for hearing on May 28 and confirm that on May 10 we filed a notice of withdrawal as we do not intend to proceed with hearing of the appeal. We have firm instructions from the appellant to withdraw the same,” Ojienda said in court documents. After last year’s August election, Noor filed a petition seeking the nullification of Roba’s election on grounds of massive irregularities and illegalities. In February, High Court judge Fred Ochieng’ ruled that Roba was validly elected. The judge said the election reflected the will of the people and ordered Noor, the petitioner, to pay Sh5 million. In mid March Noor filed an appeal, saying Justice Ochieng misdirected the facts and evidence and misinterpreted the law on determining the issues he raised. He said the judge erred in not appreciating sufficiency of the evidence presented in the case. Justice Ochieng said although there were a few discrepancies, they were not substantial to alter the outcome. The judge said the last scrutiny confirmed the results were generally verifiable. “Even if there were irregularities in Mandera county, they did not have significant impact on the outcome,” he said. Justice Ochieng said there were no grave flaws to warrant a nullification of the August 8 election results. He said there was no reason to order police investigations against the Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission officials as had been sought by Noor. The judge dismissed claims by Noor that the commission altered gazetted polling stations by relocating them. He said the petitioner failed to show how the alleged relocation affected how the people voted. In addition, Justice Ochieng said the electoral commission confirmed that all polling stations were gazetted. Click here for the latest political news