A people that elect corrupt politicians, imposters, thieves and traitors are not victims...but accomplices.” George Orwell. The ogre of corruption has reared its ugly head once again like a nine-headed hydra. Massive synchronised looting has taken place at the National Youth Service, the National Cereals and Produce Board and Kenya Power. A deep sense of despair, foreboding and indignation has struck the hearts of Kenyans. All indications are that we are losing the war on corruption. Despite half-hearted assurances from the President, government and quasi-government officials have gone into a looting orgy. In the words of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, the President appears to have run out of options in arresting high-profile corruption cases, most of which are planned or orchestrated by and from Jubilee. He further avers that the national government’s inaction in combating mega-corruption makes them an accomplice. The only new elements in this continuing saga are the thieves confidence, the staggering amounts and the crude impunity with which the lords of corruption are going about their business. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s much-hyped legacy (if any) is in clear and present danger of going up in smoke! If nothing is done urgently to reverse the current process, his will be a rapacious legacy of outright theft, looting and mega corruption. He will have willingly and silently presided over and been an accomplice to a kleptocracy larger than that of Zaire’s Mobutu Sese Seko, Equatorial Guinea’s Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo and others. One of the initial signs of a kleptocracy is autocratic government in which external oversight is impossible or does not exist, enabling kleptocrats to control both the supply of public funds and the means of disbursal of those funds. Does this sound familiar? As all are aware, the Executive has captured Parliament, who have now abandoned oversighting government to fully fledged conspirators in a frenzy of corruption. Failure by successive governments since Independence to manage and eradicate corruption has seen it grow exponentially in leaps and bounds. Initially starting from petty corruption — where citizens sought favours from junior government officials such as registry clerks, police officers, state licensing boards and many others — it has steadily grown to grand-corruption and is now systemic. Grand corruption is defined as graft at the highest levels of government in a way that requires significant subversion of the political, legal and economic systems. Systemic/endemic corruption is primarily due to weaknesses of an organisation or process. Factors that encourage systemic corruption include conflicting incentives, discretionary powers, monopolistic powers, lack of transparency, low pay and a culture of impunity. The management and or eradication of corruption by the current government has been to say the least disappointing. There has been much talk and less action. One of the selling points for an Uhuru Kenyatta presidency was that his coming from a fabulously wealthy background meant he would not condone corruption. That may be so but he soon found himself surrounded by a cabal of corrupt politicians. One of the intricacies of our politics that he learnt within minimum time is that our politics is oiled and run by the engine of corruption. It is the corrupt who mainly get elected, out of the largess of their ill-gotten loot. The same loot is expended to keep investigators and the Judiciary at bay. Once elected, they loot more. Whilst Uhuru has the wealth to survive or exist without corruption, most of his political compatriots cannot and this has created a ‘siege situation’. He is damned if he acts and damned if he doesn’t! Is the presidency hostage to this situation? The coming weeks will give Kenya an indication whether our leaders intend to chart a path out of the muck of corruption or if we will remain eternally mired in it. The famous words of George Orwell, “A people that elect corrupt politicians, imposters, thieves and traitors are not victims….but accomplices,” haunt us.