Moses Njue - the former Chief Government Pathologist who is on trial over alleged theft of a corpse’s heart is fighting to block his prosecution. The doctor, last week denied allegations of stealing the heart of Timothy Mwandi Muumbo at Lee Funeral Home while performing an autopsy on June 25, 2015. He filed an application at the High Court on Monday seeking to stop the criminal proceedings against him pending at the magistrate’s court. Together with his co-accused Mureithi Njue, they have sued the Director of Public Prosecution, Inspector General of Police and the Director of Criminal Investigations. Read: Ex-state pathologist denies stealing heart, released on Sh1 million bond The two argue that their trial amounts to double prosecution- as there exists another similar matter. At the magistrate court, Dr. Njue and Mureithi are accused of destroying the heart, to conceal evidence, knowing that the autopsy report would be used as evidence in a case pending in Court. They face a third count of illegally removing the heart. The Doctor who resigned from the government a few years ago to work at his own medical school, says their trial has no foundational evidence, is ill-founded and violates his constitutional rights as enshrined in the constitution. “I should not be subjected to illegal proceedings whose intention of some of the interested parties is to vex me and trample on my rights with impunity,” he adds in an affidavit. His argument is that Muumbo’s relatives have filed a petition before the High Court, seeking to compel him to release the body part. He also cites malice and selective prosecution arguing that his trial is meant to bring pressure to bear upon him and frustrate the civil matter pending in court. According to Dr Njue, being tried at the magistrate court will thus prejudice the High Court case. “Pending the hearing and determination of this application an order do issue restraining the respondents from hearing, proceedings with conducting or in any manner proceedings the charges laid or proceedings before the chief magistrate court,” reads the application The Doctor is out on a cash bail of Sh300, 000 while his co-accused is yet to plea to the charges. Click here for the latest political news 