Nairobi officials have resorted to civic education to prevent conflict in their bid to construct a road and a market in Kawangware. The county wants to expand the road and put up modern stalls for traders who have been using makeshift kiosks. Officials visited the area on Sunday as part of public participation efforts. They reported that some of the traders agreed to move to pave way for the project. Many traders in Nairobi have complained in the past about being evicted forcefully and losing their property in the process. Read: MCAs criticise inhumane eviction of city hawkers Esther Kemutho, a vegetable seller, asked Governor Mike Sonko to speedily revamp the road and the market as they have been neglected for more than 15 years. “It has been very difficult to operate here. Access has been a challenge. It is almost impossible for a fire engine to access the market in case of a fire," she said.TTraders and residents of Kawangware during a visit by Nairobi county officials led by Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo, May 13, 3018. /GPS Trader Onyango Ouma. who has worked in the area for eight years, said the sewage system was faulty. Vesca Kangogo, the county's Devolution executive, reiterated what Sonko once said - that they inherited a "dead system". Kangogo cited the muddy Githanga road. Regarding their new approach, she said: "We cannot forcefully evict the traders to pave way for the projects. We have to engage them in a more civilised and sober manner." She said work was done in areas such as Pumwani, Kamukunji and ICD Libra.  Nairobi City County Devolution Executive Member Vesca Kangogo with Kawangware residents on Sunday May13, 2018. /GPS The executive said the goal is to put up at least 20 new marks in Nairobi to ease pressure on existing ones and provide space for hawkers. Nairobi has 20 open-air markets and 23 large ones. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Trade Committee Chairman Charles Thuo said:  "We want to do away with the culture of having traders along roads due to congestion of markets. Thuo, who is also Dandora Three Ward Representative said the markers were part of the County Integrated Development Plan. "Construction is currently taking place in markets such as Mwaririro, Karindini, City Market, Muthurwa and Kangundo Road." He urged traders to cooperate and be patients as the rehabilitation takes place. Click here for the latest political news 