On his maiden visit to Africa, His Holiness Pope Francis, as expected, talked passionately and equally harshly, against corruption. Referring it to as sugar, so sweet, he explained its implications, which he described as diabetes. In numbers, according to Transparency International’s Report; People and Corruption: Africa Survey 2015-Global Corruption Barometer, corruption in Kenya wase estimatedto have increased with between 60-80 per cent. Seventy per cent of the Kenyans thought the government was badly handling the fight against corruption, against 27 per cent, who thought the government was doingwell. However, 58 per cent said that ordinary people can make a difference in the fight against corruption. It was, however, not the first time a visiting foreign leader spoke against corruption in Kenya. His Holiness the late John Paul II in his three visits to Kenya — 1980, 1985 and 1990 — among the many visits he made to Africa was vocal on modern development against the backdrop of poverty, ethnic warfare and corrupt governments in Africa. Not much has changed more than 35 years later, not even here in Kenya. In 2006, on visiting Kenya, the then Illinois Senator, and former US President Barack Obama in his speech, “An honest government, a hopeful future” spared no words in condemning corruption in Africa and referring to it as a crisis in Kenya. A crisis that has been robbing honest people of the opportunities they have fought for and thus deserve, making many Kenyans live in abject poverty. He also said Kenya was also failing in its ability to create a government that is transparent, accountable and free from corruption, something Pope Francis repeated. Obama also pointed out terror attacks that Kenya faced were facilitated by corrupt Customs and Border officers, who are easily paid off, police officers blinded by corruption that they can’t protect Kenyans and their property. Vindicating the “inexperienced senator”, President Uhuru Kenyatta in November 2015 declared corruption not only as a crisis, as Obama did, but a national security threat. On his visit to Kenya in June 2010, US Vice President Joe Biden challenged the Grand Coalition government to act on corruption. In his address at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre, he said too many of Kenya’s resources have been lost to graft. He regretted not a single high-level government official has ever been held accountable for such economic crimes. He emphasized too many of Kenya’s institutions have lost people’s confidence because of corruption. That feeling cannot be explained better than now. In less than two weeks, two key government agencies have been hit by disturbing graft scandals: The National Youth Service, the National Cereals and Produce Board, the Kenya Pipeline Corporation and Youth Enterprise Development Fund. It must now not be business as usual. The President must walk the talk and if not, the country is doomed. 