Excise duty
from spirits has tripled in the last three years after introduction of the
Excisable
Goods Management System. KRA further projected that it will collect an additional Sh200 billion in five years from spirits with the new system. This emerged
when KRA officials led delegates from different countries across the world in
visiting Naivasha based Keroche Breweries which has enrolled the management system. KRA enforcement officer Caxton Masudi termed the system
as very effective and would help wipe out counterfeits liquor. “Since the introduction
of the system we have seen excise from spirits rise from Sh3B to the current
Sh9B and we expect the figures to rise. We are
projecting that we shall recoup another Sh200B in five years from spirits which
would have been lost if the system was not introduced,” he said. Praising
Keroche for its high standards, Masudi noted that the system would also deal
with counterfeit liquor that had flooded the country’s market. “So far manufacturers
say that the sale of legitimate products has increased after the introduction
of the system which also helps eliminate fake products,” he said. Keroche
Breweries MD Sam Shollei was full of praise for the system noting that it would
help KRA optimize their revenue collection. Shollei admitted
that the issue of counterfeits had affected the sector with tens of lives lost
while other consumers had been left blind. “All our
products are in compliant with the new KRA system and if fully rolled out in
all parts of the country the issue of counterfeits will be a thing of the past,”
he said. He added that the
company was in the process of producing Keg beer in six months as part of
expanding its market share. On his part,
Moonga Mumba from Zambia revenue authority said that they were keen to learn
from KRA in digitizing their tax collection. “In Zambia we
are still using the manual way of collecting tax and we are in talks with KRA
so that we can introduce a digitized system in our country,” he said. Ends.