The deluge ravaging various parts of the country has caused destruction running into billions of shillings. And the rains, some of the worst since El Nino in 1997, are expected to continue through the month, bringing floods, landslides and mudslides. Swathes of land have been destroyed, crops washed away. Floods and rain have damaged or destroyed homes, schools, hospitals, clinics, churches, sewage treatment plants, boreholes, drainage systems, dams, irrigation systems, markets, municipal buildings, highways, roads and bridges. Read: Boy drowns in Nairobi River as floods wreak havoc across the country Many roads are impassable raging rivers or swamps Some schoolchildren are stuck at home because schools have been flooded or are used as shelters for displaced persons. Families are marooned at home and roads to schools have been cut off. Some learners 
are living in displacement camps far from their schools. Mud-walled schools have collapsed. Read: Nightmare for Mombasa Road users after flooding in Sultan Hamud Roads Kenha assistant corporate communications director Charles Njogu yesterday told the Star that 66 sites of serious damage have been identified. “We have to wait for water levels to go down so engineers can estimate the damage," he said. A comprehensive report is to be released on Thursday. The Kainuk Bridge in Turkana is intact, Njogu said. Traffic marshals and police are helping to direct motorists, who sometime ignore them. Madogo–Bura Road had been cut off as a result of raging waters coming from Kitui. The Narok-Mai Mahiu road has been swamped and damaged by flooding. “Siltation, sometimes as deep as one metre, has been deposited on the road. However, a contractor at the site assures us the road is motorable within 24 hours,” he said. Roads that have suffered the worst flooding include Narok-Mai Mahiu, Karimboini-Garasha road (Kilifi county), Garissa-Tana River, Marigat-Chemolingot (Baringo) and Nanyuki-Dol Dol roads. Some the roads have been completely cut off. Last month, transport was paralysed after more than 10 vehicles were swept away by floods in Suswa along the Narok-Mai Mahiu road. There was a huge traffic snarl-up in Sultan-Hamud due to heavy rains and flooding that cut off the Nairobi-Mombasa Highway. Rivers Nyando, Kaitai and Ewaso Ngiro have burst their banks. Dams and earth pans are silted or have broken walls, as reported in Marsabit and Garissa. The Red Cross Society of Kenya says market chains have been disrupted after most roads were cut off, leading to food shortages —  and increased prices. Communities in Liboi in Baringo county are no longer able to access
the market in Marigat, the main market. In Kisii, traders in Daraja Mbili Market counted losses after floodwaters washed away market sheds Read: KeNHA issues warning as heavy rains wreak havoc in Turkana Ignore warnings Yesterday, Kenya Meteorological Department director Peter Ambenje told the Star some flood casualties were people who failed to heed advice. "People should not wade into floodwater as it is difficult to tell the depth and the speed. Nobody should venture into water one foot high," he said. And they should move to safer, higher ground. Ambenje said the rain so far has not surpassed levels of 1997 and 1961. The weatherman also warned of landslides in parts of Central and Western regions. Ambenje said forest cover must be taken seriously. "Mudslides and landslides occur because soil is wet and saturated. There are no tree roots to hold the soil down. Trees are very important, especially in the hilly terrain," Ambenje said. More: Met warns of heavy rains in Coast Click here for the latest political news