At least 300 youths drawn from various constituencies in Homa Bay will on Wednesday start a three-month industrial training in various fields. Woman representative Gladys Wanga said the lot will be given scholarships from the county's National Government Affirmative Action Fund (NGAAF). NGAAF, which falls under the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs was enacted in 2015 and is managed by woman representatives. The youths have already received letters admitting them to the National Industrial Training Authority college in Nairobi where they will also undergo orientation. The training will include courses in masonry; mechanical, electrical, and automotive engineering among other areas. Wanga said the training is part of her plan to wean the youth out of handouts and connect them with potential employers for internships, apprenticeships and industry training placements. "I want to be honest and admit that I am particularly targeting KDF. The
institution has become one of the most respected in the country and is
admired by our youth," she told the Star on Tuesday. "I want the youths to build skills so as to increase their chances of getting employed or starting their own businesses. I am also fighting handouts which our youths are resorting to out of desperation." She says the training will see an end to a situation where youths have also gone for forces' recruitment with a view to "just trying their luck". "We want them to apply for army jobs because they have the relevant skills as artisans, technicians and engineers," the legislator said. Wanga adds that some of those who undergo the training will be best placed to get money from the World Bank's International Development Association. In May 2016, the World Bank approved a US$150 million International Development Association (IDA) program to support 280,000 Kenyan youths aged 18-29 years. "If we don’t arm our youth with skills, support like these by the World Bank become mere stories our youth read in newspapers or hear about on radio and they don’t benefit at all," she said. The MP appealed to the youths, who secured admission and scholarships, to take their training seriously and show appreciation to the institution to pave the way for more of their colleagues to be recruited in future. She called on firms and all stakeholders to support the NITA to enable it provide more youths with essential skills to reduce youth unemployment. Click here for the latest political news  