Opposition chief Raila Odinga has said the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta stopped calls for secession in the country. Raila maintained while meeting Uhuru they agreed to end the animosity brought by last year's general election. He said this will help Uhuru build his legacy as he serves his second term as president towards efforts of strengthening nationhood. “The political animosity could have led into secession. When I met with Kenyatta we agreed to end the division of the country, which could have tarnished his legacy in office,” Raila said. The ODM party leader and NASA co-principal said when they met with Kenyatta for the first time it was only two of them in a room with other selected team members from both sides being kept in the dark. “We met as only two leaders from our sides who were sworn in with a bible, the first talk we had was after we had laid down structured way to approach the unity,” he said. He said during the talks, they agreed to bring unity in the country by putting in place statehood where all communities in the country can feel part of Kenya. Read:New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya “We also agreed on the best way to end corruption and end election malpractices in the country,” he said. Raila was speaking on Saturday at Piny Oyie center in Suna West constituency during the homecoming party of Migori Women Representative Pamela Odhiambo. During the function which brought several ODM leaders, Raila stayed clear from calls by his lieutenants to use the handshake to vie for presidency and be in State House by 2022. “It is the swearing in ceremony as the people’s president that brought the handshake, we won’t be tired until the day he will hold the Bible to enter State House,” Orengo said. Orengo, while speaking in Dholuo said they are still calculating on the viability of the handshake ahead of 2022 elections. Also Read:Unity deal not about 2022 - Uhuru, Raila “Right now we are still calculating with this handshake, out of all leaders in the country we know Raila is the only courageous one and we will not look time when that time comes,” Orengo told the cheering crowd. Also See:Uhuru tells off handshake critics, says will continue working with Raila After the Supreme Court nullified president Uhuru Kenyatta's win after the August election and declared a fresh election be conducted the Raila led NASA coalition boycotted the election on grounds that it would not be credible. In their push for electoral justice the coalition drafted a bill that would see areas that do not support Uhuru secede to People's Republic. This saw the coalition lobby for counties to sign up for the famous 'People's Assembly Bill'. See:MP Kaluma drafts secession Bill to form 'People's Republic of Kenya' More on this See:Counties that passed People's Assembly motion will be surcharged - Kiraithe