The Executive and Legislature have frequently locked horns with the
Judiciary over the exercise of its powers, with each fending off attempts to be
emasculated or checked. Parliament has resisted any orders that control or constrain its operations,
while the Executive has frowned upon orders that reverse its actions. The Judiciary has asserted itself as the ultimate interpreter of laws and determinant
of the legality of executive and legislative decisions and actions. But the High Court ruling on May 14, which stripped MPs of their partial
immunity against litigation, has re-ignited the turf wars among the three
arms of government. On Monday, High Court judge John Mativo nullified the laws that granted MPs immunity
from legal challenges to their decisions. Section 7 of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, which was scrapped, had insulated MPs from being served
with court orders within the precincts of Parliament, consequently placing them
out of reach and above the law itself. The section provided that no process issued by any court in the
exercise of its civil jurisdiction shall be served or executed within the
precincts of Parliament or through the Speaker or any officer of Parliament. The MPS had also insulated themselves against any challenge by persons of
interest subject to their adventurous interrogation. “No proceedings or decision of
Parliament or the Committee of Powers and Privileges acting in accordance with
this Act shall be questioned in any court,” reads the annulled Section 11 of
the Powers and Privileges Act of 2017. The section had far-reaching implications for the public’s right to judicial
review embedded in the Constitution. It meant that any decision MPs pass,
including bills, resolutions or even reports, could not be subject to legal redress —
a dangerous provision that accorded lawmakers super powers. It effectively placed MPs above the law. Stung by the decision, some MPs have already launched a scathing attack on
the Judiciary, vowing that it “will never be business as usual”. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, who chairs the National Assembly’s Budget committee,
alleged that Chief Justice David Maraga had either been taken hostage by
cartels of rogue judicial officers or was part of them. “Maraga, wake up and call your house to order or take leave…take early
retirement and allow someone else who has the energy to deal with these cartels
to take over,” the MP said. Ichung’wa claimed Maraga had failed to dismantle networks of activist
judicial officers, whom he accused of issuing arbitrary court orders gagging
Parliament. “It can't be business as usual,” charged Ichung’wa at the Chief
Justice who has previously told Parliament that courts were the only recourse
for Kenyans dissatisfied with parliamentary decisions. He said the Judiciary will not hesitate to step in whenever it is moved on
an unfair and subjective probe by MPs, when committees hold sittings as
quasi-judicial bodies. This includes when they are hearing matters of public
interest, investigating corruption cases or handling issues to do with removal
from office of a public officer. MPs who spoke to the Star said the ruling quashing sections of the
Powers and Privileges Act was tantamount to gagging the House from performing
its oversight role. They said it will open the flood gates to injunctions that will
cripple multi-billion graft investigations. Graft suspects, multi-billion tender racketeers, they claim, can obtain
injunctions and stop any probe by MPs — although they too, have been accused of
white-washing scandals through ritualistic hearings because they do not have investigative
capacity. National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale warned the Judiciary against
what he termed the “Big Brother syndrome”, claiming that the court’s orders amounted
to a coup on parliamentary business. The Garissa Township MP said Parliament will use all means to parry
any threats from the Judiciary to superintend over MPs. “The Judiciary wants to prefect the other arms of government and people must
resist judicial activism and rogue judicial officers acting with impunity,”
protested Duale from Singapore, where he is on official duty. Duale said the Judiciary, being a creation of the Constitution, should
respect the doctrine of separation of powers. “They [Judiciary] cannot dictate how another arm of government
conducts its affairs. This is part of a scheme where the Judiciary is violating
the principle of separation of powers as contemplated in the Constitution,” he
said. The Star has established that MPs are planning to hit back at the Judiciary by
slashing its budgetary allocation for the 2018-19 financial year. But Ichung’wa denied the claims, saying his committee will allocate funds
based on available resources and priorities of the country. “We do not appropriate money with emotions or whims the way they
[Judiciary] issues court orders with activism, emotional and political whims,”
he said on Thursday in Mombasa, where the committee was collecting public views
on the 2018-19 budget. However, an MP who sought anonymity because he has a matter pending in
court, said MPs will "this time round teach Maraga a lesson”. “The Judiciary cannot operate as if it is the law unto itself. Let us
see them in the budget,” said the MP from Central Kenya. According to Treasury’s 2018-19 budget policy statement, the Judiciary
is expected to receive Sh17.3 billion in the financial year starting in July. Out of this, Sh13.2 billion will cater for recurrent expenditure,
while Sh4 billion will go to development costs. Most of the programmes could
stall if the budget is drastically reduced. Ministries and government departments have already submitted their
budget proposals for the next fiscal year for consideration. The committee is seeking public input ahead of the appropriations. Law Society of Kenya president Allen Gichuhi warned that the tussle between
the Judiciary and Parliament would hurt the public that is already reeling from
delays in delivery of justice. He advised Parliament to appeal the judgment if aggrieved and not resort to
extra-judicial threats. "Yes, judges make mistakes, but that doesn't warrant attacks. Let
Parliament look at the bigger picture and play its part in enabling Kenyans
access justice," Gichuhi said. “We have a backlog of cases because we don't have enough judges. Parliament
should look at how they can make resources available to recruit more judges,”
he said. National Assembly Speaker and Parliamentary Service Commission chairman Justin
Muturi said they would appeal against the judgment. “We welcome positive comments by the judge. However, it is important to note
that the committee sittings are an extension of the House. Reports can be
amended, rejected or deleted on the floor of the House,” Muturi said. He warned that Parliament’s work and functioning of the committees could be
thrown into disarray if the MPs are to be served with injunctions. It is feared that the judgment will allow activists to block investigations
as well as gag journalists from reporting on such matters.   