Thika United head coach Nicholas Muyoti has relinquished his services at the club citing poor results. The former AFC Leopards coach, who has been at the helm for almost a year, tendered his resignation letter to the management of the club after recording a single win in 13 Kenya Premier League matches this season. Muyoti was elevated to the position of head coach last year in May, replacing former Harambee Stars tactician James Nandwa, who was then handed the role of technical director role. Muyoti was tasked to unhook Thika from the jaws of relegation—a goal which he achieved in a KPL/FKF playoff—which pitted his side against National Super League side, Ushuru. After surviving relegation, Muyoti oversaw Thika through pre-season tasks, which included signing new players and preparing the playing unit of the 2018 season. The season, however, proved hard for Thika both on the field and financially. In 13 matches, the club won one, drew six and lost six—a result which fueled Muyoti’s exit. “I left because results were not coming in line with my expectations and those of the management. I can’t blame anyone for the poor run. “The players gave their all but lacked the motivation. Lack of finances affected us because one can only be assured of positive results, if the players’ salaries and allowances are coming through,” he said. He added: “As a coach, performance is gauged by results and the performance has not been good, so I’ve decided to resign as Thika United coach and move on. I wish the team all the best in their future matches.” Muyoti further advised the board to mind the welfare of the players since a bigger percent depend on football for a living. “I would like to urge the management to mind the well being of the players since they earn a living through playing football. I would advise the board to release salaries and allowances in time and I am sure they will perform.” Thika sit second from bottom in the KPL standings with nine points. Muyoti becomes the third coach to resign this season after Sam Ssimbwa and Paul Odhiambo quit Sofapaka and Chemelil Sugar respectively. Click here for the latest political news