The Nairobi county government has disowned a metropolitan authority created by President Uhuru Kenyatta to alleviate traffic problems in the city. Governor Mike Sonko has told a court the creation of the Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Authority (NAMATA) is unconstitutional since it was done without a formal agreement with the county. Namata was formed in 2014, under the State Corporation Act, to oversee the implementation of the Mass Rapid Transport System (MRTS) covering Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Murang’a and Kajiado counties. Read: Uhuru gives executive order for creation of metropolitan transport authority Through Nyachoti and Company Advocates, Sonko asked the court to nullify the appointment of Namata board members. He said City Hall cannot delegate its duties to the authority because there was no legal basis to do so. “A suitable agreement meeting the requirement of the Intergovernmental Relation Act was never published in the Kenya gazette notice as is required,” Sonko said. The notice was to be published at least 14 days before the effective date of the transfer of delegation of county functions. Sonko was responding to an application by a lobby group which has opposed the creation of the authority. Governors of Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu, Murang’a and Machakos signed the deal in October, 2014 Sonko said the agreement has never been formalised. Mary Chege, Zacharia Mungai and Ronald Ndegwa have since been appointed to the Namata board. “It is in the interest of justice that the prayers sought in this petition are entirely granted,” Sonko said. More: Traffic to ease as cabinet okays Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Authority The Institute of Social Accountability moved to court seeking a declaration that Namata is unconstitutional, saying it usurps the powers of the county government. The lobby’s coordinator Wanjiru Gikonyo said the formation of the agency was a scheme by the national government to undermine devolution. Through lawyer Waikwa Wanyoike, Gikonyo said the right procedure was not followed in setting up the agency. “There was no public participation. The regulations of the Intergovernmental Relations Act and the Urban Areas and Cities Act were also flouted,” Gikonyo said. She sued the AG and Transport CS James Macharia. Sonko and governors Joseph Lenku (Kajiado), Ferdinand Waititu (Kiambu), Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Mwangi Wairia (Murang’a) have been listed as interested parties. Click here for the latest political news