The Judiciary has asked Parliament to allocate it more funds for construction of more courts to bring justice closer to the people. Speaking during the Employment and Labour Relations Court (ELRC) Open Day at Milimani Commercial Court, Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu said the Judiciary plans to build more courts in the country in order to bring justice closer to the people. Mwilu said the Judiciary has already persuaded Parliament to give it funds to construct a High Court station in the remaining eight of the 47 counties. She said that the Judiciary also plans to build at least one magistrates’ court in all the 290 sub-counties in the country. Read:Government targets judges over recent rulings She added that the Judiciary is aware of the need to devolve specialized courts to the regions and in that regard, the Judiciary will immediately embark on a process of gazettement of magistrates courts to hear employment and labour relations cases. Mwilu said that the move will improve access to justice for the public in areas where these specialized courts do not exist.  Mwilu lauded the Employment and Labour Relations Court for holding an annual Open Day adding that such events provide the Judiciary with a unique opportunity to engage with clients and court users towards improving efficiency and effectiveness in the dispensation of justice to the public. “I am glad to note that the theme of this year’s ELRC Open Day is “Sustaining judiciary transformation through public sensitization” I applaud the Employment and Labour Relations Court for embracing the institutional ideals outlined in the Chief Justice’s strategic blueprint, “Sustaining Judiciary Transformation (SJT): A Service Delivery Agenda 2017-2021,”Mwilu said. Read:Judiciary to establish more courts to handle labour cases She said Open Days are important initiatives that go a long way to enhancing and improving service delivery through the courts and achieving the Judiciary’s vision for an agile, modernized, and responsive Judiciary that will deliver quality service to the people. The DCJ asked judicial officers to remain individually and collectively accountable for the performance of their courts. She reminded them of the ambitious targets contained in the CJ’s blueprint - SJT that must be realized for the benefit of all court users and litigants. She said that the targets were incorporated in the Performance Management and Measurement Understandings (PMMUs) that have already been signed by all courts. Mwilu explained that the Judiciary leadership will ensure that all aspects of judicial accountability are uncompromisingly observed and enhanced. She said that Open Days are a key accountability mechanism through which court users and litigants can hold judicial officers to task on their performance and that they must address all concerns raised and utilize the experience and feedback to improve service delivery. ELRC Principal Judge Maureen Onyango set out measures that the court has put in place to reduce case backlog and ensure efficient delivery of justice. Others who spoke at the function are: the Federation of Kenya Employers Chief Executive Officer Jackline Mugo, Isaiah Kubai from the Central Organization of Trade Unions (COTU), Ms Hellen Maneno from the Ministry of Labour among others.