To add insult the injury, the locals and the leaders in Baringo County are now left clashing over where to place the unseen county university. During last year’s political campaigns in Kabarnet, Deputy President William Ruto suggested converting Kapsoo technical college-initiated by former president Moi to become county university. He was backed by among other local leaders former Baringo central MP Sammy Mwaita and Assembly speaker David Kiplagat. But the proposal was then rubbished by the elders claiming the location around Kamgoin forest is a sacred area where they hold their traditional initiations and so it should not be tempered with Attempts to set up the structure at Chemeron in Baringo south sub county faced rejection from urban tycoons as the region appears hazardous and the fact it is far from a busy town. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie and the Sub-county administrator Pius Bolei also opposed the move of establishing university at Kapsoo technical. They rather suggested establishment of the institution at the 1000acre piece of land at Chemeron in Marigat, arguing that the serene environment is highly conducive for learning. “We actually want the two institutions to run concurrently; Technical and the University, we even need more” Said Senator Moi. Leaders from all the six sub-counties were now suggesting the university be established in their own areas. “If it is becomes a challenge, then us the people of Mogotio have set aside 100acre place the university” Mogotio MP Dr Daniel Tuitoek said during DP Ruto’s visit to Eldama-Ravine last Saturday. During a tree planting at Arama forest in Eldama-Ravine, Governor Kiptis said some documents have already been signed to kickoff the county varsity although he did not disclose the site. “It has become long overdue to have at least one permanent county university” he said urging the leaders to stop being jealous and reason together in one common call.  Changes through the decades. Kenya’s higher education system has changed significantly in the 53 years since independence. Immediately after independence, the government set up elite national universities that catered only for the fortunate few. Then, after 1990, more Kenyans demanded access to university and the system opened up rapidly. Private universities came onto fore along with more public institutions. Some universities have set up shopping malls, funeral homes, industrial parks and rented out property to raise more money. Also in the early 1990s, the government adopted a new market-based policy of financing public universities. This ushered in an era of reduced state support for higher education. Today, government funding for Kenya’s 33 public universities continues to decline. The average per capita expenditure per student has also fallen tremendously. This funding crunch obviously has a detrimental effect on quality, which manifests in poorly trained academic staff, inadequate libraries, overcrowded classrooms—there are sometimes as many as 400 students in a single class—and low-quality graduates. Universities are expected to raise extra revenue through tuition fees, cost-recovery measures and by commercialising their activities. Some have taken an entrepreneurial route to raise more money: they’ve set up shopping malls, funeral homes, industrial parks, rented-out property or ventured into catering. These are obviously unrelated to academic programs; they generate very little money and put universities’ finances and reputations at risk.  The system keeps growing Even as funding drops, enrollment numbers soar. Kenya’s public university system has grown exponentially: there was just one at the time of independence and there are now 33. About 70 percent of those were established during 2012 and 2013. Student growth has also been impressive. Just 1000 people were enrolled in 1963 and today there are 276,349 university students in Kenya, both full-time and part-time. The combination of high enrolments and low funding has hit even established universities hard. They don’t have enough academic staff and many lecturers aren’t properly qualified. They don’t have decent teaching or learning facilities or access to innovative technology. This means that teaching often doesn’t advance beyond traditional methods. The inferior academic climate has also seen a surge in academic fraud: plagiarism, fabricated references, students impersonating each other in exams and lecturers demanding money or sexual favours in exchange for passing grades. In probably the most dramatic case of fraud recently, the CUE cancelled five doctoral degrees awarded by Kisii University. It emerged that the five students had only studied for six months each before receiving their doctorates.  Regulation is lacking A weak regulatory framework has not helped the situation. The CUE, which was established in 1995, initially focused on the accreditation of private universities. Its mandate was expanded in 2013 to cover public universities – but by then, public institutions’ growth had gone unchecked for years. Finally, regulatory oversight needs to be strengthened. The CUE requires enough money to harness its technical and human resources for effective monitoring and quality enforcement. But it can’t carry out its duties alone: professional associations and internal university quality assurance units must be involved too. Ends