Murang'a residents have been urged to integrate with those displaced by landslides to enable learning to continue in the schools in which they are currently accommodated. Murang’a county commissioner John Elung’ata said as of now, classes are being disrupted in the schools that the victims are living in yet the rainy season is expected to prolong. More than 25 families that were displaced by landslides two weeks ago in Kahatia area, Kiharu constituency are being hosted in a secondary school while 50 others are living in Mutitu polytechnic in Mathioya constituency. Elungata said his officers are talking to residents to see if the families can be accommodated by other families until the rains subside. Secondary schools resumed their learning last week country wide while Mutitu polytechnic is expected to re-open this week. “We have sufficient tents and food for the displaced families and we are only asking locals to allow us to pitch them in their compounds,” Elungata said. The commissioner said chiefs were going around the villages trying to convince locals to give space in their homes for tents to be erected. Five people including four members of one family lost their lives when landslides occurred in several areas of the county two weeks ago. Hundreds of residents were also displaced and could not be allowed to go back to their homes for fear of more landslides. Both Kahatia and Gitugi villages have developed cracks that continue to widen since the landslides occurred, sparking fears of more earth movement as heavy rains continue to pound. Elungata said some houses have started sinking and called on those living in risky areas to move to safer areas as the government tries to find a more permanent solution. He however said it is impressive that some families in Kahatia are already being accommodated by their neighbors. He also added that that his office in partnership with Kiharu CDF will facilitate the burial of the four family members from Kahatia. The four died after their house was swept away by a landslide but Elungata noted that the first born son in the family who was in Nairobi when the tragedy struck will be assisted in finding another place to live. “We are in the process of finding another place to bury the four as their land was completely destroyed by the landslide,” the commissioner noted. The burial will be on Wednesday. He asked residents to continue supporting the victims but noted that they have sufficient food to last them for a while.