Central Bank has taken issue with the draft Financial Market Conduct Bill, 2018 saying it aims to dilute its regulatory role. The Bill by Treasury proposes the creation of additional regulatory bodies in the financial sector, but CBK governor Patrick Njoroge termed this a direct attack on the bank’s function. He yesterday dismissed the proposed law as “a flashy Subaru”, saying it is only good on paper but falls short of addressing effects of the interest rate cap. “The proposed bill is a deliberate attempt to strip CBK some of its key mandate. The bill did not propose repealing the government’s cap on commercial lending rates, which local banks and the International Monetary Fund blame for sluggish growth in private-sector credit,” Njoroge said. He said the draft bill will curtail CBK powers to put banks under receivership, adding that Treasury never consulted the bank. According to Article 231 of Constitution, the primary mandate of CBK is to formulate monitory policies, promote sound financial systems and ensure effective and efficient payment, clearing and settlement system. It is charged with the responsibility to license and supervise banking institutions, issue and preserve the value of national currency. The draft bill published by Treasury last week proposes the setting up of three new regulatory bodies in the financial sector. The Financial Markets Conduct Authority would for instance regulate the amount of credit lenders give borrowers, interest charges, dictate credit lending hours and issue banks with certificates of good conduct. The authority will set up time frames in which financial service firms will be allowed to trade loans.  NO VARYING INTEREST RATES Looking for customers outside this period could lead to a Sh5 million fine or two years in prison for a first offence. A repeat offence would attract a Sh10 million penalty or five years in jail. Besides snatching disciplinary and regulatory roles from CBK, FMCA will further have a say on interest rates charged by lenders. CBK normally sets the base lending rate from which commercial banks derive their interest charge limits. However, if passed, FMCA will bar lenders from varying interest charges in a credit contract during the life of the loan. The authority will also bar banks from entering into a regulated credit contract with a borrower if that credit is likely to expose the borrower to hardship. Doing so could attract a penalty of Sh10 million for first offence.