The next day my phone rings bright and early. It must be Mike. “Hello,” I say sleepily. “So, you are at his place?” my friend asks. What the hell? I sit up, looking at the time on my bedside clock. It’s too damn early for this shit. “Yes, I am,” I say. “Can we talk later?” I ask. Perhaps that tea I spilt last night was a tad too sweet. Girl has lost her mind. One thing for sure though, those two will never meet. If you tell a girlfriend how incredible a man is in bed, you have to keep them apart. Regardless of how strong that friendship is, an amazing lay will be too difficult for even the most loyal friend to resist. I remember telling a girlfriend once how I had asked a boyfriend to pull over on a not-too-busy highway. I lied I wanted to use the bathroom, but what I really wanted was him. Right there. Right then. I went in front of the car, headlights on me and unbuttoned my shirt and took it off. I wasn’t wearing a bra. He didn’t need encouragement. He came out and took me right there, in the open, on the bonnet of his car. A truck passed and gave us those long disapproving blow horns that trucks that size have. We didn’t stop. It was unbelievable. Anyway, I told my girlfriend about it and the bitch teases my man about it when she sees him next. Why, pray tell, would you do that? Discuss my sex life with my boyfriend unless you also want a piece of that? These hoes ain’t loyal. I re-focus on the phone call. “Ya, call me as soon as you leave and tell me all about it,” she says. I hang up. No chance of that. I get out of bed and take a shower. Why didn’t Mike call back? My phone rings again. This time it’s my niece. She wants to come and stay with me for a few days. I agree. She has things to do in town and I don’t mind her crashing at my place. Besides, it will keep my mind off that crazy weekend. And Mike. I go to work and all in all it’s a pretty uneventful day. When I get home, my niece is there. I get her settled in and make dinner. We have an early night. The next day, Mike calls. “Can I see you tonight?” he asks. “Tonight is not good,” I say. “My niece is around.” We chat for a little bit and agree to speak another time. The day after he calls again. I’m horny as hell and don’t want to blow him off again. “Give me an hour,” I say. I turn to my niece and suggest a movie. “Anything you want to see?” “Yes! Avengers Infinity is showing!” she says. “Can I take a friend?” I agree, figuring this will buy me some hours. Her friend comes over and I drop them at the theatre. Finally! Freedom to get laid. I drive to Mike’s place wearing nothing but lingerie underneath an overcoat with heels. He’s on the phone when I get there. I walk around, keeping my heels and coat on. He doesn’t seem in a hurry to get off the phone. I slowly unbutton my coat and let it fall to the ground. After that he wraps up his phone call very quickly. “Wow!” he says. He tosses the device and comes towards me. He wastes no time and practically tears the little I have on as he steers me towards his bedroom. Well, so much for saying hello.