The rift between Raila Odinga’s ODM and NASA affiliates deepened yesterday. Some ANC rebels and an ODM official called co-principal Moses Wetang’ula a coward. They are Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi. They were with ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. In a press conference at a Nairobi hotel, the politicians said Wetang’ula is attacking Raila to stay politically afloat. “Without Raila, Wetang’ula is lost,” Sifuna said. Must read  : Kalonzo and Mudavadi are 'irredeemable cowards', Atwoli says on Raila oath The politicians were responding to the co-principal’s remarks on Raila, where he threatened to “tell the world about him [Raila]”. Wetang’ula described the opposition chief as ungrateful. “Despite NASA principals investing in Raila’s presidency for the last 10 years, Raila does not respect his NASA colleagues and his days in politics are numbered,” Wetang’ula said on Monday. “The amusing thing is how Raila has sunk so low to engage in such cheap politics. You can actually see he is the only one defending the handshake which was between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta.” But the three politicians told him off, saying he will continue to sink politically. Malala said, “It confirms he is one of the self-styled principals of NASA who only survived by hanging onto Raila’s coat. His position as a so-called principal means nothing to himself, the Luhya community and the Republic of Kenya.” Also read  : I haven't betrayed you, will take oath soon, Kalonzo tells supporters The rift in NASA started after the swearing-in ceremony of Raila on January 30. Co-principals Wetang’ula, Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka did not show up at Uhuru Park, the oath venue. “We may not know who will be on the ballot in 2022, but we are sure Wetang’ula will certainly not be one of them,” Sifuna said. “We remind Wetang’ula he is where he is because, at some stage, he entertained a false notion that he is his own man and can bite the hand that fed him.” Click here for the latest political news