OPPOSITION chief Raila Odinga’s surprise ‘advice’ to estranged aide Miguna Miguna appears to have infuriated a section of the NASA leader’s think tank and members of his inner circle. They believe the advice to Miguna was not well thought through. The lawyer was forced out of the country unlawfully and has no obligation to cooperate with his tormentors who are yet to comply with 13 court orders issued in his favour. Our mole overheard two allies concur that the ODM supremo should have instead called on the relevant agencies to act on the court directives. As expected, Raila’s advice was not exactly well received and he must be regretting why he touched the tail of a snake. ***** A senior manager at a leading health parastatal is believed to be a sad man. Reason? The manager drunk himself silly and crashed one of the company’s high-end cars allocated to him for official functions at the weekend. It’s said the man, who has an insatiable appetite for the good life and the bottle, has kept the weekend accident a closely guarded secret. The manager is working day and night to have another official car, which our mole intimated could be assigned to him by the start of next month. ***** A senior Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission official is on the spot over what concerned Kenyans’ view as blatant effort to block the prosecution of high-profile suspects implicated in corruption. The official, who is said to operate with impunity, has thwarted efforts by his juniors to take to court graft suspects. Operating as if he is the law unto himself, the official, who is also being cited for accepting ‘tokens’ from accused persons, is now in trouble. This is after a top State House operative allegedly warned him that his days at the anti-graft agency are numbered, for being a stumbling block to the fight against corruption. Isn’t it time the state acted on the official to give the war against corruption some impetus? Well, only time will tell. ***** As investigations into the Ruraka land saga narrow down to the wire, a mole whispers to Corridors that some prominent personalities and senior government officials have been forced to eat the humble pie and record statements. One of them was so annoyed that the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission could even have the boldness to ask him to record a statement. Well. Sources say the probe is progressing well and there is a high likelihood of some big fish being arraigned in court over the controversial transactions. Click here for the latest political news