National Super League leaders Western Stima rallied from a goal down to play to a 1-1 draw against FC Talanta yesterday at Camp Toyoyo. The power men, who were aiming to open an eight-point lead needed a Godfrey Ochieng’s extra time strike to pick an away point. Stima, who were determined to revenge their last weekend’s 1-0 defeat to Nairobi Stima, were the better side in the opening minutes of the game with experienced Frederick Nyarombo testing Talanta’s goalkeeper John Bataro with a long range strike barely two minutes into the game. A minute later, Nyarombo headed wide Erastus Mwaniki’s cross as Stima showed early intentions of breaking the deadlock. The long ball approach by Talanta in a bid to reach their towering striker Paul Karuri played in favour of Stima as the centre half duo of Junior Mukisa and Maurice Ochieng marked him closely, giving the midfielders chance to spread passes to Talanta’s half. Talanta’s Kenneth Githinji was cautioned in the 15th minute for a dangerous foul on James Ogada as the holding midfielder fought to prevent his side from conceding. Stima piled more pressure for the opening goal, forcing their opponents to retreat to the defence. Despite playing under pressure, Talanta got the opener in the 21st minute through Karuri, who won an aerial ball at the box before shooting past Stima’s custodian Stephen Otieno. The goal gradually boosted Talanta’s confidence and their ball possession, thus balancing the match towards the final minutes of the game. Stima’s head coach Richard Makumbi rested a ineffective Mwaniki for Dan Otieno as he sought to cancel the goal in the second half. Ten minutes into the final half, Nyarombo paved way for former Kenyan international Wesley Kemboi as Makumbi seemingly lost his patience for an equaliser. Makumbi further summoned his final substitution, bringing in Maurice Dukuly for David Okello in the 74th minute but still found it tough to break Talanta’s defence. On the other hand, Talanta’s Abdalla Juma threw in Martin Wachira for Job Tinyo while Joseph Abongo came in for Abdul Adam in the dying minutes as they sought bolster his defence. Talanta thought they had picked the three points until Godfrey Ochieng struck the equaliser with seconds left on the clock. Makumbi said: “I am happy we have picked an away point. Talanta were very defensive but I am happy we managed to get a goal in the last minute of the game. We are still six points ahead of number two and I hope we will open a bigger gap in the subsequent matches.” His Talanta counterpart Juma expressed his satisfaction with the point. “We never trained during the week as Kasarani was hosting a military event but I am happy the boys have shown a good game. We lost concentration at a crucial moment of the game and let in the equaliser.”