Kenya has the highest electricity connectivity rate in East Africa, a World Bank report tracking global achievements in sustainable energy for all has said. The Energy Progress Report released by the World Bank on May 2, for the period up to 2016, electricity access rate in Kenya stood at 56 per cent compared to Tanzania at 32.8 per cent, Rwanda at 29.37 per cent, Uganda with 26.7 per cent and Burundi at 7.5 per cent. Electricity access stood at 73.42 per cent at the end of April, according to electricity distributor Kenya Power, owing to various national electrification projects such as the Last Mile Connectivity Project, connecting of informal settlements in urban areas and low-income households in rural areas. The national access rate has grown steadily in the last five years from a low of 32 per cent in 2013 due to accelerated investment in the distribution network and increased investment in renewable energy generation. According to the report, access to electricity among the rural population increased from 7.17 per cent in 2010 to 48.39 per cent in the period reviewed while that of the urban population grew from 58.2 to 77.6 per cent. Kenya has been listed among countries where much gains were made in ensuring that more citizens access electricity for lighting, cooking and driving businesses. “Some of the strongest gains were made in Kenya, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, and Tanzania, which all increased their electricity access rate by 3% or more annually between 2010 and 2016. Sub-Saharan Africa’s electrification deficit has begun to fall in absolute terms for the first time. Tens of millions of people now have access to electricity through solar home systems or connected to mini-grids,” reads the Energy Progress Report. The report comes at a time when Kenya Power is working towards achieving universal access to electricity by 2020. To achieve this target, the Company intends to ride on the ongoing electrification projects as well as increase investment in the distribution network by building additional substations and associated lines to accommodate new customers and enhance the quality of power supply. Kenya Power is also keen on riding on technological advancements to upgrade its systems in order to enhance service delivery to its customers.