Female genital mutilation violates Islamic law and teachings, Muslim scholars said yesterday. They asked communities to desist from linking it to their religion. The scholars said FGM violates the essence and objective of Islamic law, which protects the welfare of family, dignity, wealth and the mental capacity of an individual. Speaking in Nairobi, Deputy Chief Kadhi Rashid Ali Omar said FGM should not be condoned. Pastoralist communities and some counties in Northeastern, he said, have borrowed the practice from the Egyptian culture and amalgamated it into Islam. “We haven’t heard any of the late Prophet Muhammad daughters was circumcised,” Omar said But Prof Omar Al-Bashir from Green International said mutilation and circumcision are worlds apart, with different meanings. His remarks appeared to suggest that Islam tolerates a mild form of circumcision. “I do not think it is wise to merge the two words to mean the same thing. When we talk about circumcision, it is seen to be practiced countrywide. Islam is eloquent on that and how it is done and we should not go beyond the limits,” he said. Asked whether Islam allows circumcision, Omar said, “In this case, what we are talking about is mutilation.” “Mutilation is on the extreme, but when it comes to circumcision, it is practised across the country. Still, the practice is deeply rooted in culture and eliminating it will be a process.” The scholars promised to support the government and work with Dayaa Women’s Group in Tana River to conduct civic education on the consequences of FGM. According to a report by Unicef, 9.3 million women and girls in Kenya, equivalent to 27 per cent, have undergone genital mutilation. This places Kenya at number 17 among 29 African countries that practice FGM.  Partnership Last month, the Anti-FGM Board announced it was teaming up with various players to wipe out FGM.  These include the government, the public, private sector, civil society, the media and development partners. “We want to work together towards a common vision to end the female cut,” Board CEO Benardito Loloju said. He said the board is coordinating county governments and NGOs in 16 counties where FGM is practised, to synchronise their efforts in eliminating the cut. Loloju said the efforts were a success in Kajiado and would be replicated in 15 counties. Board director Agnes Leina said even though anti-FGM campaigns have been created by NGOs and other institutions, people from remote areas have not heard of laws barring the practice due to lack of media and other communication channels. FGM prevalence has greatly reduced since 2011, after a new Act outlawed the practice.