Has Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko blacklisted some wards after he clashed with their representatives in the County Assembly? Well, some county legislators were overheard complaining in the chambers that the controversial city boss had ostracised their wards. They lamented that some of their colleagues are the governor’s moles and frequently give out reports about his frequent critics. The MCAs claim that Sonko had warned them to their face that development projects would not be rolled out in their wards if they did not go slow on him. “Is it wrong to offer oversight to Sonko’s administration? Currently, we have uncollected garbage in our wards and the roads are pathetic,” an MCA lamented. ***** A first time MP who was listed as being one of the lawmakers who are mute in the August House and loud in village funerals is finding it hard to convince his constituents that he is defending and fighting for them in Nairobi. The MP, known for theatrics, has now assembled an online team to specifically firefight for him in various constituency Whatsapp groups where the list of mute MPs had been circulated. A member of the online team intimated to Corridors that among their mandate is to extract clips of all his press briefings and radio appearances and flood the Whatsapp groups with the material to prove to constituents that he has been addressing their issues on the national platform. The MP, who has not made his maiden speech on the floor of the house since he was elected, is also planning to sue a media house that published the list. ***** Are governors reluctant to account for public funds before a parliamentary watchdog committee? Well, Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal and his Trans Nzoia counterpart Patrick Khaemba have failed to appear before the Senate Public Accounts and Investments Committee. The committee chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’ is probing queries raised by Auditor General Edward Ouko. ***** Are police on a mission to cover up the killing of businesswoman Janet Waiyaki at City Park a week ago? Well, moles have whispered to Corridors that police officers yesterday attempted to forcibly harvest DNA samples from Waiyaki’s hospitalised nephew, Bernard Chege, in what is believed to be a plan to establish whether the two had an affair before they were shot at. Corridors has also learned that the officers cordoned off a city hospital in the afternoon and called for reinforcement. It is said that even officials from the Independent Policing Oversight Authority were barred from visiting Chege at the facility. Janet died after police shot her and Chege in their car.