Limuru residents have welcomed Interior CS Fred Matiang’i’s order to probe afresh Pastor James Ng’ang’a over a road accident that left one person dead. Ng’ang’a’s Range Rover Sport KCD 060Q collided with a Nissan March KBZ 709W, resulting in the death of Mercy Njeri in Manguo, Limuru, on August 26, 2015. Ng’ang’a — the head of Neno Evangelism Centre — was charged with dangerous driving and causing death. He was sued alongside driver Simon Kuria and police officers Christopher Nzioka and Patrick Baya. They denied wrongdoing. Kuria and Nzioka had been accused of giving false information to police, while Baya, the then-Tigoni police station base commander, was charged with neglecting his duties. They were acquitted last Friday. But on Tuesday, Matiang’i tasked the DCI to investigate the case anew to reach “a suitable corrective and deterrent action against persons found culpable for its improper handling”. He said the ministry noted the acquittal with surprise, considering “a brazen crime was committed”. Matiang’i said justice must be pursued for the victims and the public. He blamed the outcome on weak investigations. Yesterday, residents led by Limuru MP Peter Mwathi said justice would have been buried if no action was taken to revive the case. “The accident was real. Acquitting the accused persons means even the court can’t say there was an accident,” Mwathi said. On Monday, chief magistrate Godfrey Oduor said the prosecution failed to prove its case. Limuru senior resident magistrate Karen Njalale said the evidence produced by prosecutors was “scanty and misleading”. She read a ruling on behalf of Oduor. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki disagreed. The prosecution was not satisfied with the ruling, she said. Mwaniki told Njalale the state would appeal within 14 days. Oduor was promoted from a senior principal magistrate to a chief magistrate and transferred to Nakuru. He however heard the case to its conclusion. Mwathi said he would follow up the appeal to ensure Njeri’s family gets justice. One resident however differed with the MP. John Mwai wants Ng’ang’a allowed to have an out-of-court settlement with Njeri’s husband, Martin Mbugua. The case should be left to rest, he said. “I believe the case was well handled. What do you think Njeri’s family and the DPP would do if the Court of Appeal upholds the acquittal?” Mwai asked.