David Kibet stands hands akimbo on his maize farm the size of two football pitches adjacent to his house. The retired civil servant has just delivered yet another bucket of concoction to fight a fall armyworm infestation at his Simatwet
village farm in Trans Nzoia County. The worm first noticed in the area in March last year for the first time has already eaten up half of the crop on Kibet's farm. "I have been fighting these worms for the past year.
Initially, I went for insecticides like
Lufenuron, Acephate and Pyriproxyfen but they proved too expensive for nothing.
Someone advised me to intercrop in order to limit damage on maize but that too has failed,’’ said a desperate Kibet. The father of six who depends on
maize farming and his paltry monthly pension to feed his immediate family is now worried that he will be left with nothing to
harvest in August. Kibet and his fellow maize farmers are now using a mixture of bitter leaves, traditionally used to treat Coccidiosis in poultry
to scare off the ferocious worm that  poses a major threat to millions of African farmers. Every evening, he collect leaves from bitter herbs like Rosacea
known as Tendwet in Nandi, Rachis used to weave baskets, Aloe vera and vernonia amygdalina commonly referred
to as Olusia in Luo and Omulusia in Luhya. He crushes the leaves, soaking overnight in water ready for spraying
the following morning. I soak up to six buckets every day. He uses a backpack
sprayer. "In the evening, I splash wood ash on the crop to camouflage the
green leaves with the hope of tricking fall armyworm which are very active at
night," said Kibet. Juliet Lamwenya, a 52 year old farmer was happy when she
acquired a piece of land in Kapkoi near Moi's Bridge in Trans Nzoia in 2015. She
relocated from her ancestral home in Vihiga County, ready to enjoy good maize
yields associated with the area which is described as the country's breadbasket. She was excited when she managed 30 bags from one acre of
land in 2016 but her joy
dimmed when this dropped to only 18 bags last year. This was due to prolonged
drought and emergence of the dreaded fall armyworm. When the Star visited her farm, her maize crop was
severely damaged by the stealth army that mostly operates at nigh. Many other farms were under attack. Unable to afford the cost of insecticides, Lamwenya  and her neighbours have resorted to livestock urine to fight the battle. She sprinkles urine
harvested from her three cows on maize every morning. She learned the art from her friend who convinced her that
urine kills fall armyworm. The desperation of the two farmers goes to show how millions of smallholder farmers
in Kenya and across the continent are turning to traditional means to tackle  the
pest that is threatening to clear the crop depended which is Kenya's main staple food. Vincent Ochieng, a biotech researcher at Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation, doubts the means used by smallholder farmers can really tame the pest. "Desperate times call for desperate measures. It is
unfortunate that smallholder farmers cannot be supported by
science. Biological control measures like intercropping, rotation farming and
use of pheromones to trap male worms is highly recommended," said Ochieng. Although Kenya signed a technical corporation programme worth
Sh50 million with Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in November last year
to control Fall Armyworm using sex traps, the initiative is yet to benefit
farmers. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said the government will spend up to Sh1.6 billion to fight the pest. Last year, the fall armyworm destroyed maize crop worth Sh3 billion,
about 20 per cent of the total harvest. This damage is expected to increase this
year.