One of the three teachers who on Wednesday assaulted a standard one pupil at Kamukunji Primary in Ol joro orok, Nyandarua, has been arrested. Charles Macharia was arrested on Friday after parents demonstrated and disrupted classes at the school. The parents took their children away, saying they no longer trust the teachers who are “castrating” them. The seven-year-old boy was hospitalised at the Nyahururu Referral Hospital. His mother was called by head teacher Samuel Njoroge, saying the boy had a problem. Upon arrival, her son’s classmates told her three teachers found him playing in class and beat him up. A senior police officer on Saturday said investigations are ongoing, but did not talk about the other suspects – Bethuel Kimeria and Daniel Ngure. Macharia is locked up at Ol joro orok police station. The three teachers reportedly disappeared from school soon after the 11am incident. After the assault, the child was kept in school until 4pm when his mother was called. The boy’s classmates told his mother, “Wakaanza kumkanyagilia chini na viatu kisha wakatoa sehemu zake za siri (They stepped on him with their shoes and then exposed his private parts)….” Dr Wambui Ngatia said besides severe trauma, the boy suffered a 6cm cut on his left scrotum. The boy is recovering after an operation to restore his testicles and stitching the scrotum. Parent Josphat Kanyeki said, “If trained teachers can do that to a child, how many more children will they harm?” Parent David Mwathi said, “Had they not been drunk, they would not have committed such a beastly act. We see them loitering around drunk, and there is nothing we can do since when we complain to the head teacher, he says he will handle it, but nothing is ever done.” Parent Duncan Njenga said it is still unclear what the child did to deserve such punishment and why he was not taken to the nearby Ngano health centre for first aid. The parents said if the children must be beaten because of indiscipline, it must be done with care and dignity. Click here for
the latest political news 