Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka has admitted that corruption is rife in counties and challenged MCAs to be vigilant and taxpayer’s watchdog. Lusaka said it was the duty of MCA’s to ensure they followed up on projects being implemented and raise the alarm if the funds had been misused. He was speaking when he opened county assemblies speakers’ forum at Enashipai resort in Naivasha. He said the recent debate on scrapping of various seats was an indication that the performance of devolved units was not pleasing to the electorate. “When you hear people say whether we should scrap the position of MCA, Senator or even that of the Governor is because Kenyans have not seen our work,” he said. He said the President had signed several bills that will pave way for counties to receive extra funds from National government adding that it was upon county assemblies to ensure that they were spent in a prudent and sustainable way. “These funds come from Kenyans who are the taxpayers and it is your duty to ensure the bills made and assented to were in line with development agenda,” he said. Lusaka at the same time called on the speakers to ensure that the rulings they make had positive implications to the society. “You should ensure the issues are debated in a serious and objective manner and offer leadership since some decisions you make will set precedence,” he said. He said the Senate will soon roll out its sittings throughout the country and will also receive views from the public on how effective devolution has been over the last five years. “The first sitting will be held in Uasin Gishu county and we will also listen to the public on how our performance has been and the areas that need improvement,” he said. His sentiments were echoed by County Assemblies Forum (CAF) chairperson Johnson Osoi who said they will work together with the Senate to ensure devolution runs smoothly. “We are also hoping that this forum will be anchored into law just like the council of governors to enable us to perform our duties as required,” he said.  Click here for the latest political news