Doctors' training and practice worldwide is standard, evidence-based and professional. National variations are determined by functionality, strength of the healthcare system, challenges and socio-cultural realities. Kenyan doctors in developed and developing countries have been hailed as among the world's best trained and competent. Thus, Kenyan doctors have absolutely no objection to working with any doctor from any country, as long as they're qualified, professional and add value. Moving doctors from country to country must be done transparently, ethically and voluntarily. Transfers must adhere to the World Medical Association's and the World's Global Code of Practice on International Recruitment of Health Personnel. The decision to import Cuban doctors was hasty, without regard for than 2,000 doctors,  including 171 specialists, available for employment and deployment to all 47 counties to provide much-needed services. County governments continue to deny thousands of Kenyan doctors release letters and opportunity to pursue specialist studies. Therefore, training 50 doctors in Cuba is insignificant when thousands are denied the chance to train locally and reduce the workforce shortage. The 100 Cuban doctors will cost more than Sh2 billion, plus additional county  expenses of security, transport, housing and food. That Sh2 billion can employ and pay for one year 1,000 Kenyan doctors in all counties. Counties and the Health ministry must stop victimising local specialists who — even after the CBA was registered —  have not been promoted to correct job groups, have no housing, no security and no transport. Those privileges are extended to Cuban doctors but denied Kenyan doctors. The Malaria Control programme will spend Sh500 million for 10 Cuban doctors to clear bushes and stagnant water. That Sh500 million can temporarily employ one million youths to clear bushes, stagnant water and spray the environment in Nyanza and Western — where these 10 Cuban doctors will work. KMPDU concludes importing Cuban doctors is unnecessary expenditure  and potentially harmful to the unsuspecting public. It will weaken our health system and demoralise our doctors. We recommend the government transparently engages stakeholders — particularly professional associations,  training institutions, counties, unions and referral hospitals. The aim is to reorganise training, employment and recruitment of Kenyan doctors in a sustainable, cost-effective and accepted manner to realise universal health access. The KMPDU Secretary General spoke to the Star Read: Governors set to sign deal for Cuban docs as KMPDU digs in Also read: Cuban doctors welcome but hire more Kenyans Click here for the latest political news