A thrilling finish to what seemed a largely mundane encounter ended with champions Gor Mahia preserving their unbeaten run in the 2018 SportPesa Premier League campaign after a Topsy-turvy 3-3 draw with Sofapaka. With a minute left to play, it looked like Gor were going to taste domestic defeat for the first time when Ezekiel Okare lobbed Boniface Oluoch to seemingly complete an unbelievable comeback from two goals down. But from the restart, the holders launched an attack and when Matthews Kigonya failed to deal with a long ball into the box, it fell to Innocent Wafula and the forgotten man nodded the leveler, which seemed like a winner for the hundreds of Gor fans. Yet the match should have finished without much ado for K’Ogallo. Meddie Kagere had put them ahead albeit fortuitously when a clearance by Humphrey Okoti ricocheted on him before landing into the met. There was no fortune about the second goal ten minutes before the break when Bernard Ondiek rose highest to head in Wesley Onguso’s cross.A two-goal first half lead should have meant three points in the bag for K’Ogallo but this was not the juggernaut that Dylan Kerr has let roll since he took over almost twelve months ago. Within seven minutes of the restart, Sofapaka had halved the deficit. Kevin Kimani played a ball forward, allowing Kepha Aswani to beat Haron Shakava for pace to slam the ball past Oluoch. Sensing the game was there for the taking, John Baraza sent in his attacking cavalry as Okare, Danson Kago and Stephen Waruru took their places up-front. Gor, however, held them at bay until the 85th minute when Oluoch made an error of judgement, coming way off his line to deal with a cross from Kago only to be beaten to the ball by okare who looped a header over him and into an unguarded net. You would have thought Sofapaka would be content with salvaging a point from a dire situation but no. Another long ball caused panic as Gor defence allowed Okare to run clear and deftly lobbed Oluoch for what seemed to be a winner. However Wafula came to the rescue at the death to keep Gor’s unbeaten run intact.