In January
2016, the Central Bank of Kenya issued a circular advising commercial banks, micro-finance
banks and mortgage finance companies to intensify scrutiny of cash transactions
exceeding $10,000 (Sh1 million). This was not
news. The regulator was simply reminding financial institutions of Regulation
31 of the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Regulations of 2013. It requires
institutions to obtain written statements from customers, confirming that the
nature of their business activities reasonably generates substantial amounts of
cash to support large, frequent or unusual cash deposits or withdrawals. Customers transacting
huge amounts of money must state the source, use, beneficiaries and why the transaction cannot be done electronically. This aims to reduce
risks inherent in cash transactions, such as losses due to fraud and
theft. This is because cash transactions are characterised by informality and anonymity. If information
provided by the customer is found untrue or fails to support the rationale behind
the transaction, the bank immediately files a suspicious transaction report
with the Financial Reporting Centre (FRC). The Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money
Laundering Regulations require reporting institutions to submit to the
FRC a report indicating the institution's level of
compliance with the Act, Regulations, among others. The
report is submitted by January 31 the following year, unless the date is
varied in writing by the FRC. In
March the regulator issued a guidance note on money
laundering and terrorism financing. It requires banks to provide CBK with a report on results of their money laundering and
terrorism financing risk assessment. This raft of measures enables banks to do their due diligence in reporting suspicious
transactions to the FRC. Banks have also sanctioned any employees culpable of abetting financial crimes. When
investigating financial crimes, authorities must check whether banks
reported such cases or not. Did financial institutions follow
transaction  procedures required by CBK? Did they submit annual
monitoring reports to CBK and FRC as required? Financial
institutions must not, therefore, be the first reference points by
investigating agencies outside the financial sector when tracking
financial crimes. The writer is CEO of the Kenya Bankers Association Click here for the latest political news