The Kenya Cardiac Society has entered into a two-year partnership deal with GE Healthcare to train 40 doctors and technicians in public and private hospitals. KCS president Bernard Gitura yesterday said many facilities have inadequate echocardiography services and have low access to training for practitioners in the treatment and management of heart conditions. The American Heart Association defines echocardiography as a painless test that uses sound waves to create moving pictures of the heart. “We are happy to collaborate with GE Healthcare to provide structured training that will enable participants to better diagnose and treat cardiac cases,” Gitura said. Beneficiaries will be trained in groups for six months. They will acquire technical skills on cardiac imaging. It will focus on body structure, functions, blood flow, graphic representations and probe manipulation skills. Currently, Kenya has about 60 cardiac specialists against a high, rising number of cardiac patients. Read:Heart training to focus on early detection and treatment According to the Kenya STEPwise survey for noncommunicable diseases, deaths from heart diseases range from six to eight per cent nationwide. It says most heart failures are caused by undetected, untreated or poorly treated abnormally high blood pressure. Gitaru said good echocardiographic skills are critical to properly identifying and diagnosing causes of heart failure. GE Healthcare East Africa CEO Andrew Waititu yesterday said there is a scarcity of skilled and well-trained professionals. This hurts care, he said. “The collaboration to provide echocardiography training is a key step to improving access to quality healthcare across the country,” Waititu said, announcing the collaboration with the Kenya Cardiac Society. The society champions advancement of heart health by facilitating discovery and dissemination of best practices. It focusses on prevention and education, and supports and coordinates research and collaborations with key players and the academic institutions. GE is committed to building capacity and sharing knowledge. It has been a key solutions with healthcare agencies. Click here for the latest political news 