Three human
rights institutions funded by taxpayers are sharply divided over the Senate’s fresh
bid to collapse them into a single commission. The National
Gender and Equality Commission and the Office of Ombudsman top officials yesterday
differed with the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, who support their
merger. KNCHR commissioner
Jedida Waruhiu told the Senate Justice, Legal Affairs and Human Rights
Committee chaired by Samson Cherargei their human rights mandates are indivisible,
inter-related and inter-dependent in backing the merger. “A carefully
crafted and properly resourced institution would be best placed to ensure a
common approach to combat inequality and discrimination, as well as ensuring the
protection, promotion and fulfillment of human rights in Kenya,” Waruhiu said. KNCHR
proposes the commissions collapsed into a new institution dubbed the Kenya
National Human Rights and Equality Commission (KNHREC) to offer Kenyans services
at the national and county levels. Read: Rights groups fight attempt to scrap them Waruhiu said it has been “wasteful and not helpful” for Kenyans, especially
persons with disability denied government services, to seek justice from the
three commissions. “In the
spirit of devolving services to the grassroots, it is essential that similar
“one-stop” arrangements are made for each county under a unified national body - KNHREC -
instead of several commissions, each independently running office in all the 47
counties,” she said. Waruhiu added
that the merger will not only reprieve taxpayers the burden of funding the
three commissions but also enable them access services faster. She pointed out that Kenyans are dying
of hunger yet country is facing a depressed economy and high cost of living due
to bloated staffing. “It would be value for money if
Kenya’s human rights needs are serviced by one strong National Commission with
presence in all 47 counties,” Waruhiu said. Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika faulted
the office of Ombudsman and NGEC for opposing the merger, saying Kenyans
will easily access services when the new commission is devolved. “Our main concern is to save taxpayers'
funds by merging the institutions. It would be important to merge so that
services are provided in one facility for the common mwananchi,” Kihika said. However, opposing the merger, NGEC commissioner Florence
Wachira argued the move will “water down
significant social gains the commission has offered to vulnerable Kenyans". “This debate is not new. It
was there in 2011 before Parliament decided to set up the three commissions.
The merger will see the needs of vulnerable groups, especially the common man, left
out,” Wachira said. She cited countries such as South
Africa, Zimbabwe, the UK and Brazil as among countries where the merger of
institutions on human rights matter have failed. “The NGEC Act, 2011, which created the
commission as a separate entity, was to ensure it focuses on advancing gender
issues and needs of the most vulnerable populations towards an equitable and
just society where everyone can maximize their potential,” Wachira said. Read: Kenya sliding into dictatorship, rights groups say after David Ndii arrest The Office of the Ombudsman’s Legal
Affairs Director Vincent Chahale said collapsing the commissions to great a “super
commission” will contribute to maladministration and deny the wanjikus (the common man) services. “If you merge the commissions, the
Ombudsman’s mandates for Wanjiku will
be diminished and the super commission will concentrate much on human rights violations
such police brutality which sounds juicy for media and forgetting other needs,”
Chahale said. He disclosed that the office has been
able handle over 345,000 complaints out of which an estimate 286,000 have been
resolved since its inception six years ago because it has been operating
separately and independently. “It would not have been possible if
the functions were put in one institution. The merging of the commissions will
reverse the gains so far made in enhancing administrative justice in the
country,” Chahale said. Senator Cherargei said his committee
will invite relevant officials from other state institutions such as the
National Treasury, Judiciary, Attorney General and the Director of Public
Prosecutions to hear their position on the merger. “We will look into this matter
objectively for the great good of the country. We need to consult other state
institutions before coming up with the final decision,” Cherargei said. Click here for the latest political news