Local contractors have been dealt a blow after the government settled on three Chinese firms to repair and build roads in the capital. The firms have been contracted by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, which has taken over construction and maintenance of city county roads. This follows a public uproar over their deplorable condition. The companies are China Wu Yi Company Limited, Sinohydro Corporation and China Roads and Bridges Corporation. Transport CS James Macharia said the companies have been awarded a Sh4.1 billion tender to do the roads, most of them in Eastlands. The move has once again called into question Governor Mike Sonko and his administration’s ability to perform its functions. The government has given Sh2.6 billion, while City Hall provided Sh1.5 billion towards the contract. The projects are part of the Nairobi Regeneration Programme. It was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta following numerous complaints by residents over the deplorable state of the capital. Yesterday, Kura confirmed it has already started r-carpeting roads in the city centre following a presidential directive. The President’s order also followed a blame game between Sonko and the authority over who is responsible for the roads. Kura director general Silas Kinoti had said the authority was only in charge of two roads — Kenyatta and Haile Sellasie avenues in the city centre and nine others in the outskirts. It accused the county of shifting blame. Kinoti’s commented after Sonko released a list of 58 roads and lanes in the CBD, totaling Sh34.6 km, which he said are in bad shape and are under Kura. Kura’s chief communication officer John Cheboi said work has started on Tom Mboya. “We are doing periodic maintenance on some roads in the CBD. Roads in Nairobi have never been maintained,” Cheboi said. The authority says most roads are over 20 years old and urgently require maintenance. In the city centre, only Kenyatta, Harambee and Haile Selassie avenues and Parliament Road have recently been overlaid by the authority. 