High-ranking officials of the
United States and North Korea met in New York late on Wednesday
in the first of two days of talks about the future of
Pyongyang's nuclear weapons program and a possible summit
between US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim
Jung Un. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Kim Yong Chol, a
close aide of North Korean leader Kim Jung Un, met for about 90
minutes over dinner and exited without providing any detailed
remarks to reporters waiting outside. Pompeo would only say that the dinner "was great" and that
the two men dined on "American beef." It was not yet known whether the two men made any progress
toward narrowing long-standing differences between Washington
and Pyongyang that could end decades of hostile relations. Earlier in the day, the White House left open the
possibility of a Trump-Kim summit on June 12 in Singapore,
despite Trump's cancellation of the meeting just days ago. As the dinner was underway inside an apartment on New York's
East Side, just south of the United Nations, a senior State
Department official separately briefed reporters on the
high-level talks that were underway. Pompeo and Kim Yong Chol, vice chairman of the ruling
Workers' Party's Central Committee, "are trying to get to know
each other" following their two initial meetings this year in
North Korea, said the US official who asked not to be
identified. The official added that before any summit between the two
leaders can occur, Pyongyang is "going to have to make clear
what they are willing to do" amid demands from Washington that
North Korea permanently end its nuclear weapons program. Trump, the official said, "can make a fly or no-fly decision
anytime he wants," referring to the possible unprecedented
Singapore summit. If not enough progress is made to lead to a productive
meeting between Trump and Kim Jung Un, the official said, "We
will ramp up the pressure on them and we’ll be ready for the day
that hopefully they are ready.” Shortly before Wednesday's dinner, Pompeo repeated the Trump
administration's bottom-line demand: "Looking forward to meeting with Kim Yong Chol in New York
to discuss @Potus potential summit with Chairman Kim. We are
committed to the complete, verifiable, and irreversible
denuclearisation of the Korean Peninsula @StateDept," Pompeo
said in a Twitter post. Trump last week called off the summit after North Korea
expressed anger at comments by senior US officials. But Trump
later said he was reconsidering his position and US, North
Korean and South Korean officials have gone ahead with summit
preparations. The White House said on Wednesday that negotiations at the
demilitarised zone along the border between North and South
Korea for the summit were going well. Separately on Wednesday at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, Admiral
Harry Harris, the outgoing head of US Pacific Command who is
Trump's pick to be the ambassador to South Korea, said North
Korea remained the United States' most imminent threat. "And a
nuclear-capable North Korea with missiles that can reach the
United States is unacceptable," Harris said. Earlier, a US official said negotiations about the
summit's agenda have so far been slow going, and the two
fundamental issues, the definition of North Korean
denuclearization and whether both sides would take actions at
the same time or separately, remained unsettled. 'DENUCLEARISATION' Trump has sworn not to allow North Korea to develop nuclear
missiles that could hit the United States and wants North Korea
to "denuclearise," or get rid of its nuclear arms. But the leadership in Pyongyang is believed to regard
nuclear weapons as crucial to its survival and has rejected
unilaterally disarming. The Trump administration, according to US officials, has
left open the possibility of North Korea eventually getting US
aid and investments if Pyongyang agrees to complete
denuclearisation. North Korea’s position going into the meetings with Pompeo
was that a pledge of denuclearisation alone should open the way
to economic relief, said the official who briefed reporters
earlier on Wednesday and spoke on condition of anonymity. South Korea’s Yonhap news agency quoted Seoul’s Unification
Minister Cho Myoung-gyon as saying in a speech on Wednesday that
the differences between North Korea and the United States on the
denuclearisation issue remained “quite significant” and it would
not be easy to narrow the gap. However, Cho added that the engagement of the leaders of the
two countries meant “chances are high that common ground can be
found." Kim Yong Chol is the most senior North Korean official to
meet top officials for talks in the United States since Jo Myong
Rok, a vice marshal, met then-President Bill Clinton at the
White House in 2000. A former military spy chief, he has played a central role in
the thaw in relations over the past six months between North
Korea and South Korea, as well as the United States. North Korea defends its nuclear and missile programs as a
deterrent against what it sees as US ambitions to overthrow
its leadership and unite the Korean Peninsula. The United States
stations 28,500 troops in South Korea, a legacy of the 1950-1953
Korean War. Click here for the latest political news