Last week, I was rushing home late afternoon in a taxi to avoid the evening traffic. But there seemed to be thousands of cars. The progress was extraordinarily slow, so I considered walking home. I could not do so because it was raining extremely heavily. What struck me was that almost all cars had one passenger, usually the driver. Looking outside, I found thousands of pedestrians, wet all over, running with as much speed as they could in the rain. Could we not solve the problem of the congestion of traffic if we prohibited vehicles with less than four passengers from using the highways during specified hours, and instead used taxi and, better, buses, to move people around — saving time and money? This approach worked in Singapore and elsewhere. Would our aristocracy prohibit it? The second thought was what made me so angry: the rich people were doing alright in their limousines, but the infinitely harder workers were left to walk their way in the heavy rain, with the limousines splashing more muddy water on them, without any compunction for people who had started walking to work at dawn, even earlier, as they made their way to work. And arrived there completely wet, for what is a miserable salary. Surely, I thought, we did not adopt the People’s Constitution to increase the disparities between them and the tycoons. Why are our politicians and government doing nothing about these disparities? Have they no sense of the injustices the poor face every day? The driver was moved by my anger at these injustices. He then moved to another topic, having realised my role in constitution making. Like other young people I spend some time with, he was full of anger at the way the politicians, forming ethnic-oriented parties, exploited voters of their own tribe. “If only,” he said, “the Constitution had prohibited ethnic parties, we would not have got this manipulation. Parties would have fought on policy issues, and we would have been the better.” Somewhat cruelly, I read to him Article 91 of the Constitution, which explicitly prohibits parties based on ethnicity. It is either the ignorance of the Registrar of Parties and the IEBC or external pressures that parties with distinctive ethnic orientation are registered. The Registrar and the IEBC also overlook massive parties’ corruption and bribery to get votes. It is now clear that by and large, politicians care only for themselves. They steal from the coffers of the state or seek bribes from the rich and the poor alike. They, for the most part, have ignored constitutional values and objectives. This is the basis of the great unity among them, regardless of the parties they belong to. In fact, there are no differences of policies between politicians. This is obvious from the camaraderie between members of the two major parties following the handshake. Does the handshake represent nothing more than a settlement of minor differences within the same class regarding the sharing of the loot?  THE ODINGA INITIATIVE NASA leader Raila Odinga is the most distinguished and thoughtful of politicians. He is completely committed to constitutional values and objective, and indeed had a hand in their formulation. His proposals are wide-ranging, though politicians, particularly Deputy William Ruto and his friends, have unthinkingly interpreted his agenda in terms of their own careers, particularly the prospects of their newly acknowledged hero, Ruto. Ruto no doubt opposes the parliamentary system now (contrary to his position in Bomas) because he sees it as Uhuru getting out of his promise to sponsor his presidential candidacy, just as he reminds him of his securing the Kalenjin vote for Uhuru, which won his ticket. A number of eminent politicians are supporting in the expectation of high office. No surprise that our politics is barren of ideas and progressive policies. It is true indeed that Raila has proposed important constitutional changes: shift from presidential to prime ministerial system, and the reorganisation of devolution to give people greater power to organise their lives. Both the national and county level politicians are upset purely because the changes would affect them adversely. This again shows the preoccupation of Kenyan politicians with their own benefits—and the barrenness of their politics. I regard his constitutional proposal of great significance—and to his list I would add the electoral system so that we shift from first past the post to proportional representation, as proposed by CKRC and Bomas—much fairer for a multi-ethnic state. But now I turn to his other objectives: achieving the values of the Constitution—an approach shown by few other politicians. For all too long, as he reminds us, “Ethnic antagonism and divisive political competition have become a way of life… Our people are crying out for leadership that shows the [constitutional] path to dignity, prosperity and security.” They note also that “Our political system has been unable to respond to feelings of alienation in sections of our people”. The priorities that Raila and Uhuru have set for the state are ones that the people have longed for. Among them is social and economic security. They favour leadership that makes “a practical effort to ensure that those who are hungry or in distress are aided”—something that politicians never think of. They also commit themselves to eradicating corruption, recognising that “it destroys lives, public trust and prosperity… It is undermining our public and private institutions, and will destroy them and our aspirations as a nation”. They also recognise the importance of human rights—our Constitution has perhaps the most extensive and balanced Bill of Rights in the world. To quote them, “Kenyans must have their human and civil rights respected and enforced. There is no Kenyan whose rights should be compromised no matter the interests against them. Kenyans have struggled hard for these rights and they are not for anybody to take for granted. At the same time, to attain and protect our rights, we must embrace our responsibilities. The two can never be separated if we are to have either.”  SO WHERE ARE WE? Much of the public debate about Raila touches on his proposals for constitutional amendments. I support them but my studies have shown that governments in Kenya have shown little regard for the Constitution. There is so much goodness in the Constitution as it is, that if they were to be honoured and implemented, Kenyans would enjoy a life of freedom, dignity, harmony, social justice, equality and participation, as citizens of a united country. Uhuru has already started on this path, but a great deal more is needed. Let us give him and Raila the opportunity to implement the Constitution, as they have promised us.