Siaya county will provide free portable toilets at funerals to prevent open defaecation. Governor Cornel Rasanga said 10 toilets are available. Speaking in his office yesterday, Rasanga said he was keen to maintaining Siaya as open defaecation-free county. “It is in funerals where mourners come in large numbers. The toilets can be inadequate. That’s why we came up with the initiative for funerals,” Rasanga said. Virtually all homesteads in Siaya have toilets. The feat was achieved following a campaign against cholera and other disease outbreaks. Community health workers and volunteers, including UNICEF staff , were crucial in the campaign. “We also want to ensure that all markets have toilets. The habit of open defaecation must completely end,” Rasanga said. The governor urged residents to improve their hygiene to keep them safe from diseases. "It’s more expensive to cure than to prevent diseases like cholera. That is why we must maintain a high level of general hygiene," he said. The campaign to build toilets in homes led to Siaya being declared open defaecation-free in December last year. Rasanga said they had struggled to contain cholera and typhoid because of open defaecation. “Frequent cholera outbreaks helped us to convince residents to build toilets,” Gem health offi cer Judith Ongeche said. She cited an outbreak that claimed more than 40 lives in 2016. “Gem was the worst hit. Residents saw the sense in ending open defaecation to reduce the spread," she said. Homes in all the villages in the subcounty have toilets, Ongeche said. County director of health Omondi Owino said the door-to-door education campaign on building toilets was a great success. “It’s like we killed two birds with one stone by curbing diarrhoea-related diseases through the use of toilets. We also raised our national hygiene profile by being declared open defaecation- free,” Owino said. Early last year, Siaya had improved residents use of toilets to 85 per cent from 12 per cent five years ago. “The campaign doesn’t end there. We are encouraging residents to wash their hands after using the toilet,” Owino said. Click here for the latest political news