Is someone after businessman Jimmi Wanjigi)? Yesterday the Raila Odinga supporter tweeted that masked people in camouflage uniforms were trailing his car in a Land Rover. “This happened after I vowed to #ExposeKIBICHO. I will not be cowed and will not cave in. Luckily, today [yesterday] I’m also armed to the teeth with my full security detail”. Wanjigi has previously been involved in serious altercations with police officers who at some point served him court papers along Forest Road, following a dramatic chase. ***** A city MP was on Saturday night forced to part with lots of cash after students at the University of Nairobi caught him in the act with a student in the car. The well-known legislator had parked his tinted car near Nairobi primary when students who knew his car, found him romping. The students blackmailed the MP that they will post his pictures on the internet if he didn’t give them cash. Shaken, the legislator pulled a wad of notes from his jacket and gave the 10 or so students, who then let him to drive away with his skimpily dressed girl. Members of Parliament are known to pick university girls on Friday and bring them back on Sunday evening. ***** A deputy governor who has taken over duties of his ailing boss has caused jitters among employees of a Western Kenya county government. The deputy governor is said to be keen on taking advantage of the governor’s indisposition abroad to engineer some scandals to prepare the ground for the sacking of a section of senior staff. His blue-eyed boys have of late been in an overdrive to hatch a plot said to be targeting some employees, whom he wants to be kicked out over corruption. Many of the scandals are looming in the procurement and accounts departments, where he is said to be keen to install his cronies to aide an unknown mission. ***** A former driver to an MP from Western Kenya is on the run after he was arrested and detained for a while, only to be released under unclear circumstances. The driver had been involved in a fatal road accident sometime back and his car extensively damaged. Police started investigations into the accident that left two dead. It is not clear just how far the investigations have gone and so the families of the deceased are now asking the police to explain why the driver is yet to be charged.