Immediately it was announced today, the big news was received with pomp and circumstance. The biggest regional football tournament that will be pitting East Africa’s finest teams together – The SportPesa Super Cup – will take place on June 3 - 10, 2018 and the tournament will be held at at the refurbished Moi International Stadium in Kasarani, Nairobi. The rewards will be huge as the top football teams from East Africa are set to battle it out for a chance to play English Premier League club Everton in July. “The tournament’s goal is to bring about enhanced cohesion within the region as well as showcase only the greatest in East African football talent. We have selected the best of the best to take part in the tournament, based on our regional partnerships as well as on sporting merit,” said SportPesa Chief Marketing Officer, Kelvin Twissa during the launch in Nairobi.  SportPesa Chief Marketing Officer, Kelvin Twissa during the launch in Nairobi. Photo / SPORTPESA  Eight teams drawn from Tanzania and Kenya and considered as football giants within the region will participate in the tournament. They include: • Gor Mahia FC - Kenya • AFC Leopards - Kenya • Kariobangi Sharks - Kenya • Kakamega Homeboyz - Kenya • Yanga FC - Tanzania • Simba SC - Tanzania • Singida FC - Tanzania • Jeshi la Kujenga Uchumi (JKU) - Zanzibar  SportPesa SuperCup History The first edition of the Super Cup tournament was held in Tanzania last year. Being the winner of the inaugural edition, Gor Mahia FC got a chance to play Everton FC at the 60,000-seater National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on July 14. This was Everton’s maiden trip to East Africa. Gor Mahia Chairman, Ambrose Rachier, who also serves as the SportPesa League Chairman said, “As a club we are honored to be invited to take part yet again in the SportPesa Super Cup this year. As the defending champions of the title, we will certainly be putting our best foot forward to retain the title. We urge all the other teams to do the same to ensure the level of competition remains high.”  Gor Mahia Chairman, Ambrose Rachier during the launch at The Sarova Stanley Hotel. Photo / SPORTPESA  Rewards for the winners The quarter finalists in this knockout tournament will take home $2,500 (Ksh250,000).  The fourth position will earn a club $5,000 (Ksh500,000)  Number three and two will take home $7,500 (Ksh750,000) and $10,000 (Ksh1,000,000) respectively.  The winning team will be given a token of $30,000 (Ksh3,000,000) and earn a chance to travel to the UK in July for a face-off with English Premier League club, Everton FC at Goodison Park.  Football development The SportPesa Super Cup is an annual football tournament which pits the best teams in East Africa against one another in one full week of high class football action. The tournament is intended to bring about enhanced cohesion within the region as well as showcase only the greatest in East African football talent. As a unique franchise, the Super Cup further serves as a uniting initiative between football fans across the region and to some extent the continent as well. It is intended to raise the profile of African football and what it represents – a sense of pride for all who partake in it. “SportPesa has done and continues to play a developmental partnership role that deserves commendation and emulation by both local and international corporate bodies,” said FKF CEO Herbert Mwachiro. “Further, it is our belief that the decision by SportPesa to go global has been of great benefit to Kenyan football, as it has not only opened doors for football administrators to bench mark with the best in the sport but has also given our local players a chance to showcase their talents against some of the best clubs in the region and beyond. “In this regard, we feel that the SportPesa Super Cup, which comes hot on the heels of the Hull City Challenge will further accord our local players the much needed platform to compete and gauge themselves against some of the best clubs in the region,” he concluded.   