Baby Satrin Osinya, the miracle baby who survived a terror attack in 2014 that left his mother dead and the killer bullet lodged in his head has been taken ill. Osinya was with his mother Veronica at the Joy in Jesus Church in Likoni, Mombasa when hooded gunmen stormed the church and opened fire. On Friday, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, who adopted the boy shared the news on Satrin's health on his Facebook page, asking Kenyans to join in prayers for his recovery. “The Devil is a liar. My adopted son Satrin Osinya who survived a brain surgery after a bullet lodged in his brain was successfully removed by doctors at KNH has been of late developing complications on and off. He is currently undergoing treatment at the Nairobi hospital. All watu wangu just join my family in praying for him. May he be healed in the mighty name of Jesus,” Sonko`s post read. Read:Sonko 'adopts' baby Satrin, brother Gift After the post, Kenyans of goodwill wished baby Satrin quick recovery. Eve Wanjau wrote...Quick recovery Satrin... May the almighty God Heal you baby... The devil has no potion in your life ...you will live to testify his miracles in Jesus mighty name Priscilla Ndungu said...Oh sorry, this was a story of hope. May his health be restored. "I believe God has the final say on Satrin's life and he preserved him so that he can serve and testify to the whole world that God saves. Devil his not going to steal that from him I declare sickness is not his portion in Jesus name," Shiku Mercy posted. Read:Baby Satrin set to join school in Runda Another user Brewster Munish said...Our father up above is a healer and hear's everyone's prayer am sure he will hear our prayers to heal Satrin. In 2015, a year after the attack, a neurosurgeon explained that they do frequent checks up on Satrin because the bullet had been lodged in his visual cortex and the aim of these visits was to check that none of his functionalities were affected. “For example, we check to see if he can move his limbs, if he can see clearly and the healing progress of the wound after surgery,” he said. Read:Baby Satrin to be discharged from KNH today 