When Okot p’Bitek wrote a collection of essays published under The artist the ruler: Art, culture and values several years ago, it never occurred to me that almost 40 years into the future, his arguments, sentiments and anecdotes would be so relevant to Kenyan society. Today we stand between the devil and the deep blue sea, where the young are being swallowed into alien cultures that distort their beings as sons and daughters of the African soil, on the one hand, and a society too impatient to give them time to put their cases given the cultural and lifestyle ‘choices’ they face, on the other. Culture, of course, is a dynamic thing. As societies come into contact through history, they imbibe the cultures of each other and very soon assume what was originally alien to them is actually assumed to be their own over time. This, interestingly enough, is what happens to language. In Kenya, for example, Kiswahili words are now used in our various languages as if they are originally our own. Thus the word ‘simu’ in Kiswahili has become ‘simo’ in Dholuo; the word ‘safari’ has become ‘safar and so on. The Kikuyu say ‘thengio muno, which simply means, ‘thank you very much” in English. It is even more interesting when the same Kikuyus say or sing ‘siti dauni’ for ‘sit down’. A Kikuyu, who is completely bereft of the English language, would never know the connection between the two languages: For him or her, the phrases and words will be perfectly assumed as originating in the vernacular. Let us move 100 years from today and discover that adult men and boys alike will be piercing their ear lobes and wearing rings. Nobody will bother where this practice came from: It will be taken as perfectly African in the centre of Nairobi, part of our cultural heritage. Likewise, when everybody in the family will be speaking neither Dholuo nor Kikuyu or Luhya, and English and Swahii will be the only two languages spoken, all cultural expressions like dance and music will perhaps be expressed in only these two languages. What this means is that those cultural expressions amenable to being expressed in these two languages will have disappeared. Treasures across many Kenyan nationalities will have been lost. It is this point that p’Bitek emphasised. Let us treasure our performing arts, language and material culture: they are the expressions of our beings; they are the epitome of our identity and sovereignty. The performing arts and material culture tell our history, our achievements on this earth, our trials and tribulations, and our conquests over nature as we build civilizations. Every society has a civilisation expressed and stored in the spoken word and communicated to the rest of the world in the way we live, and move and have our being. We discover each other across cultures without losing our own or thinking our own is subordinate or inferior. Unfortunately, this phenomenon of cultural subordination that bred a cultural inferiority complex is what colonialism and religion did to us in Africa. And this is what p’Bitek fought all his life through his writings, teachings, his love for the performing arts and his speeches. He left us a rich library to treasure and use. But the passion for cultural preservation that p’ Bitek had does not seem to be carried on by those of us he so much inspired because we have not managed to creatively institutionalise that passion. The authoritarian regimes we have had have been of no help. I remember when both the Jomo Kenyatta and Moi regimes ran Ngugi wa Thiong’o and Micere Mugo out of Kenya simply because they were teaching our youth and society our cultures, and using literature as a liberation tool from political, cultural, intellectual and social imperialism. This imperialism is still with us today. And culture is now domiciled as a function in the counties. The county government of Turkana has been holding a cultural festival every year. I have seen what happens there only from the media, but I am determined to go participate and see for myself next year. Last weekend, I had the rare opportunity to have a two-day encounter with Kisumu and Nairobi-based artists discussing and exchanging views on what artists are doing — their experiences, aspirations, hopes, fears, opportunities, challenges and achievements and how they can partner with the county government in their various endeavors. I discovered things had not really changed much since I was a student at Alliance High School and Makerere University in the 1960s. The only major difference is that these young people are more daring, more adventurers and have adopted certain lifestyles completely alien to our thinking then. But like us, they are grappling with the issue of how they can discover, embrace, live and express their ‘Luoness’, ‘Kikuyuness’ and ‘Kisiiness’ without necessarily stopping to speak ‘Sheng’, or discarding being called Stevo. We had the fortune of having with us Lupita Nyong’o of the Wakanda fame, and Sir David Frank Adjaye, the lead designer and architect of the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, DC. I met Sir David in Los Angeles early this year and we had a lively discussion on the aspirations of artists and the performing arts in my county. We discussed how to galvanise our cultural heritage in the county and ways of preserving this as part of our heritage since some of it is disappearing and becoming vague. A million thanks to David for going out of his way in giving support to the cultural renaissance in Kisumu. Both Lupita and David agreed they could not really engage in this discussion from a theoretical point of view: They had to have an encounter with the artists, visit their milieu and live their experience for a day or two. That was really the essence of last weekend’s encounter, which was devoid of all the political paraphernalia that usually crowds out such worthy events. As we moved from one venue of cultural expression to the other, as we watched the dances, listened to the musicians, came across painters, listened to poets, emcees, story tellers, entertainers and so on, one thing came out very clearly was that each and every artist was looking for ‘a place to feel at home.’ Not simply in terms of a physical structure, but this and much more. In essence, culture and artistic expression thrive most when it is consumed: When the environment is welcoming and encouraging; when the performing arts and material culture have effect on socioeconomic development. I am grateful the three doyens of cultural and artistic expression in Kisumu: Albert Wandago, Obat Masira and Punglu Pangla, who sat throughout the discussions, always ready to connect us to our past heritage. I am grateful to Joy Mboya of the Go Down in Nairobi, who made everything make sense as we came to a conclusion. I am grateful to Achie Alai, my Tourism, Sports and Culture executive and her team. Without the hard work and imagination that went into this, not much would have been achieved. To all artists in Kisumu, let me assure you that you are our artists, the rulers.  