There is panic at the EACC. We are told some senior managers are afraid after President Uhuru Kenyatta told Parliament he wants corrupt people, however powerful they are, arrested and prosecuted. Those panicking have been holding brief for some people, in some cases doing shoddy investigations. They are worried new DCI George Kinoti (pictured) and DPP Noordin Haji may not accept their excuses, especially because they have the President’s ear. Word on the street is that three influential leaders from Mt Kenya region are fighting attempts by a key Jubilee leader to acquire shares owned by a well-known political family. The three – a governor, a vocal Cabinet Secretary and a banker – are said to have positioned themselves to buy out the family’s interests in a media house and enlist it as a PR tool. The family’s interests have been targetted by several leaders from the region who fear the Jubilee leader could get mileage if he acquires a media house. The National Police Service is awash with details of a top cop who is said to have received Sh60 million to influence the outcome of an investigation. The cop is said to be in constant communication with the right-hand man of a troubled “paper billionaire”. The man is said to have been telling those who care to listen how well he is connected. The cop is said to have assured the man that no police officer will touch him as long as he is in office. The matter has reached State House ears. Are top parastatal bosses hiding behind a top politician to deny tenderpreneurs government contracts? Or is the politician so powerful that he can manipulate parastatal heads for tenders in the over 200 institutions? Well, there is an outcry among people who have a strong appetite for government tenders. They say any time they contact a parastatal boss for a tender, they are referred to the politician. The bosses usually tell them, “Talk to bla bla [the politician], he has the final say on all the tenders.” Why has Orange House failed to stem the disquiet sweeping through the ODM Youth League? Well, sources told Corridors that some officials, who have allegedly lost favour with the members, continue to attend the party’s top decision-making meetings unabated. There are also claims the officials were removed from office a few weeks ago. It is said some of the youths have taken advantage of the “handshake” to hobnob with their former chairman Rashid Mohammed, now Sports CS. Why can’t Orange House resolve the smouldering crisis? Click here for the latest political news