On Tuesday, we published a story under the headline ‘Estranged fraudster exposes land racket’. The story was based on a personal statement signed by a Meshack Onyango Dehay addressed to the National Assembly and Senate speakers. Dehay made claims in relation to the controversial Ruaraka land on which Drive-In Primary School and Ruaraka High School are located. The issues regarding the Sh3.2 billion compensation are of huge public interest and currently before the National Assembly Lands Committee. In our story, Dehay had claimed Interior CS Matiang’i was to pocket Sh300 million in relation to the land, NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri Sh400 million, Education PS Belio Kipsang’ Sh100 million, former AG Githu Muigai Sh250 million, and Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut Sh100 million. The statement also claimed Francis Mburu, the businessman at the centre of the land compensation probe, had tried to defraud the government and has also swindled the state through his companies — Whispering Palms Estates Ltd, Afrison Export Import Limited and Huelands Ltd. Dehay also claimed Mburu’s firm New Agricultural Limited owns grabbed land. The statement also accused Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko of a plot to share the loot with Mburu over unidentified property in Nairobi. It has since come to our attention there is no evidence to back the claims made by Dehay. We acknowledge that despite the statement being received at the National Assembly, we should have crosschecked the credibilility of the dossier and given those adversely mentioned an opportunity to defend themselves. The story, inadvertently, did not go through our standard fact-checking procedures before publication. We take this opportunity to apologise to Matiang’i, Swazuri, Kipsang, Muigai, Chepkut, Mburu and Sonko for any harm and embarrassment caused by the story. We also apologise to Whispering Palms Estates Ltd, Afrison Export Import Limited, Huelands Ltd and New Agricultural Limited for any harm and embarrassment caused by the story. We have removed the story from the Star website. Read:Estranged fraudster exposes land racket Click here for the latest political news