The Education ministry is working on modalities to transfer teachers in TVET institutions from TSC's payroll to the Public Service Commission. Education CS Amina Mohamed said the scheme, whose aim is to boost the performance of the tutors, is in its final review. She said the ministry has already forwarded data of trainers in all the 138 Technical and Vocational Education and Training institutions to PSC to effect the transfer. Read: We must get TVET expansion right While briefing Deputy President William Ruto on the initiative at his Karen office on Monday, TVET Principal Secretary Kevit Desai revealed that fees across all TVET institutions will also be reduced to boost student enrollment. He said technical education training would also be assessed as is stipulated under the new 2-6-3-3-3 curriculum where teaching is skewed more on practical rather than theory. “We are also in discussions with the Higher Education Loans’ Board so that they can come in and finance technical training education, the same way they do with universities,” Desai said. On May 18, the DP announced that technical colleges will review their fees downwards by between 30 and 50 per cent to increase student population in those institutions. He said the new fees structure would be out in the next two months to make technical education accessible to all Kenyans. Once put on the PSC payroll, TVET tutors will enjoy different terms of service different from the ones they work under together with their colleagues in primary and secondary schools. Also read; Aga Khan donates equipment to TVET The PS said the new plan would also see more than 2,000 new TVET trainers recruited to cater for the current shortfall. The enrollments, he said, will also cater for the new TVET institutions that are currently under construction. Ruto noted that Kenya is looking at upgrading to a middle-income economy by focusing more on TVET training. “Competency-based training is what this country has lacked for long. These colleges are going to address that gap,” he said. The DP called on the Ministry to ensure that the trainers’ capacity is also strengthened “so that the product quality is in tandem with the industry demands.” Click here for the latest news