Feuds are set to rock Murang’a county assembly again over the position of the leader of majority that has caused numerous fights in the house. This is after speaker Nduati Kariuki denied having received court orders confirming Kimorori Wempa MCA Amos Murigi as the new leader of Majority. On April 20, the political parties tribunal declared Murigi as the leader of majority after the MCA filed a petition against former leader of majority Eric Kamande, the Jubilee party, Jubilee party secretary general and Murang’a jubilee party chairman. In his petition, Murigi said he had been legally elected as the leader of majority by MCAs in a controversial jubilee party assembly caucus meeting that turned violent in Kiambu on January 5 and that the respondents were making it difficult for him to take over his role. The tribunal ordered the respondents to facilitate Murigi’s assumption of office as the leader of majority and forbidding them from harassing him in the exercise of his duties. Issues concerning the leadership of the assembly started last year November when the MCAs attempted to forcefully evict clerk Chris Kinyanjui accusing him of mismanaging the house and blamed the leader of majority of supporting him. On January 16, Murigi who was backed by a section of MCAs attempted to assume the office of the leader of majority which degenerated into fist fights amongst the members. But in January 17, Jubilee party secretary general Raphael Tuju nullified Murigi’s election saying the party did not acknowledge the county party chairperson Simon Gikuru and that any changes he has overseen in the county assembly are null and void. Murigi and five other MCAs were then charged in court with creating disturbance in the assembly. In February, the party and the county government organised a reconciliation meeting in Mombasa where the MCAs resolved to end fights and work together. Although the cases against Murigi and the five MCAs were withdrawn, Tuju insisted that changes in the leadership of the assembly remained null and void.       