President Uhuru Kenyatta's public
apology to Kenyans offers a momentous opportunity to rally a divided country on the
path of healing and reconciliation. As Kenyans have suffered
tribulations for over 55 years, Uhuru’s apology clearly demonstrates his
selflessness and sincerity to unite the country after his handshake with
Raila Odinga. This shows regardless of the political
divide, there's a point where great minds can meet on a
national matter. His apology coupled with the handshake should set the country
on the right political, social and economic trajectory. This gives us an
opportunity to make up for what we lost since last year. We should lay a firm foundation for a selfless
society respecting the rule of law and electoral justice. Indeed, the historic
handshake could be just what the doctor ordered for healing and take-off. It is obvious Kenya has stagnated far
too long, unable to grow and claim its rightful place in the world community of civilised and developed nations, largely due to 'sick politics'. Kenya has never been lucky on the political front. Negative ethnicity, electoral
disorder, corruption and opportunistic foreign interests have held us
back and often rudely interrupted progressive initiatives to stabilise and
reorder the development trajectory. Therefore, we should give
our two top leaders full support in their new-found camaraderie and resolve to
unite and stabilise the country. This will create the enabling environment and synergy to kick-start our elusive
socio-economic take-off. They came together abruptly at a time of
blood-curdling ethno-political tensions. We should treat this as Kenya’s own 'route to Damascus moment', as happened to Paul who was transformed from a persecutor of Christians into a powerful believer and apostle. Yes, there are many doubting
Thomases. Many could disbelieve because of the extraordinary timing. Others may worry the ever-looming ghosts of tribalism are lurking, ready to pounce anytime and crush the initiative. Acts of the Apostles 9:1-26. Sometimes things change for
the better! Nevertheless, the two gentlemen are
seasoned politicians and great leaders in their own right. They cannot be
indulging in foolishness. They consulted widely and strategically on pros and cons before plunging into this landmark
deal. The writer is the ODM National Treasurer and ex-Kitutu Masaba MP. He spoke to the Star.