Joe Kibe is an old man, an octogenarian to be exact. He has lived a chequered life in public service as Permanent Secretary in five ministries, including Lands, over a span of 30 years. He is a man of wealth and most of all a philanthropist and a man of integrity. He is not one given to idle talk or gossip. Indeed, whenever he spoke, the leadership of this country has listened. He disagreed with one President and quit public service to join the private sector. On March 25, while reading the eulogy for his age-mate and close friend Kenneth Matiba, he went off the script and fired a volley at persons he felt had betrayed Matiba at his greatest moment of need. The first was Kalonzo Musyoka, who on August 10, 1990, interrupted parliamentary business and invoked Standing Order Number 20 to discuss Matiba and Charles Rubia as a matter of national importance. The then Deputy Speaker Francis Bob Tuva admitted it and called on Nicholas Biwott to second the same. What followed was akin to a public lynching that laid the foundation for detention without trial of the two former Cabinet ministers. This information is all contained in the parliamentary Hansard and has never been challenged or recanted. Amongst those who went for the Matiba-Rubia jugular were Bonaya Godana, David Mwenje, Bob Francis Jalango, Mwai Kibaki, Biwott, George Saitoti, Zachary Onyonka, George Muhoho, Philip Leakey, Joash wa Mangoli, John Keen, Joseph Kamotho and Francis ole Kaparo. Kalonzo, the self-confessed born-again Christian, led a vicious charge against both men in an excoriating emotional tirade that drove the final nail in their political coffins! Their sin was leading a crusade for multiparty democracy. Ironically or paradoxically, Kalonzo is one of the biggest beneficiaries of multiparty democracy, especially in the December 27, 2007, General Election, when he abandoned his ODM colleagues to serve as Vice President to Mwai Kibaki. He is to date an opposition principal in NASA. Keen sensationally declared that Matiba-Rubia were out to overthrow the democratically elected government, and even claimed they had named a fictitious shadow cabinet. It ostensibly comprised Matiba (President) and Rubia (Prime Minister), Jaramogi Oginga Odinga (Vice President), Josephat Karanja (Foreign Affairs), Eliud Mwamunga (Health), Ngugi wa Thiong’o (Universities and Colleges), GBM Kariuki (Attorney General), Masinde Muliro (Minister of State), Kimani Ngumba (Commerce), Ibrahim Mwaruwa (Arid and Semi-Arid Lands), Kamau Kuria (Chief Justice), John Khaminwa (DPP), Paul Muite (Head of Civil Service), Gitobu Imanyara (Solicitor General). Others were George Anyona (Community Development), Bishop Henry Okullu (Culture and Religious Affairs), Luke Obok (Information) and Laban Kitele (Office of the PM). Political and professional careers of a host of Kenyans were put in jeopardy out of this reckless fictitious fabricated announcement and a Gazette Notice confirming the detention without trial of Matiba, Rubia and Raila Odinga issued. Jaramogi was placed under house arrest. Kibe wanted to lift a heavy weight from his chest. His good friends Matiba and Rubia had been unfairly incarcerated without trial for any crime known to law. Their health seriously deteriorated in detention, where they were denied medication, courtesy of government doctor Frank Mwongera. Their business fortunes sharply declined and their families became pariahs. That some of the charlatans who were the authors of this mischief have continued to hold public office and have led normal lives because no one had the courage to disclose their diabolical actions must have jarred him to the bone. Kibe is one courageous patriotic Kenyan rising above pettiness and willing to take the tiger by the tail. He is above malice and that is why he made the announcement in the presence of former President Kibaki, Kalonzo, George Muhoho and others. He owed his fallen friend a duty to disclose his persecutors. Kibe is an honest Mzee at the sunset of his life and decided to set an historical injustice right. He has set the record straight once and for all and we now know who to never trust with the Presidency.