Construction of a Sh20 billion recycling and energy generating plant at Dandora dumpsite could begin by the end of the year, the county government has said. This is after 30 local and international investors submitted letters expressing their interest in the project. “The letters are with a technical team for evaluation. Then we will prepare proposals before another evaluation. The process should take six months,” acting environment director David Makori said. He did not disclose the names of potential investors, saying the process was confidential. In March, the county had invited investors to submit letters of interest. The deadline was April 19. The plant is expected to produce 40MW electricity per hour from methane gas generated by the trash. More than 2,500 tonnes of garbage are deposited in the city daily. The energy is clean and renewable as waste is continually deposited. “We are looking at a firm that will employ the best technology, has financial capacity, will make use of the local community and one that will pollute the least or not pollute at all,” Makori said. CAMPAIGN PROMISE The environment director did not say whether the electricity will be free to residents, or sold, saying the consumption plan has not been completed. For years the city has been choked with garbage dumped on roadsides, backstreets, markets and in estates. Governor Mike Sonko and his administration have criticised for failing to manage the waste. Cleaning up the city was a campaign pledge. City Hall blames residents for illegal dumping. Some private garbage collectors have also been accused of dumping waste at illegal sites. ONLY THE BEST Last month, former county secretary Leboo Morintat said the vetting of the firms would be strict and thorough.“We want to build the best plant. We don’t want guess work. Only the best will win the tender,” he said. In 2016, German firm Sustainable Environment Management UG withdrew from the project, saying the city did not have the title deed for the website. Dandora, the 43-year-old waste-yard, was declared full in 1996, but the 30-acre dumpsite has continued to receive waste. It is the only legal dumpsite in the city. The county has compacted waste to create room for more waste after several attempts to relocate it failed. The dumpsite was to be relocated to Ruai but the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority opposed the move, saying birds attracted to the garbage could pose a danger to aircraft through bird strikes. Click here for the latest political news