Reluctance by individual East African Community countries to put in place proper laws on plastics is hurting Kenya's war against plastic menace,the Star has established. Kenya is currently grappling with the plastics being sneaked in from neighbouring countries such as Uganda. NEMA Chief enforcement officer Robert Orina said they recently nabbed banned plastics in Busia border that came from a firm in Uganda. "Early this month, a bus conductor was arrested at the Uganda border with 432,000 pieces of plastics. Another person was arrested in the same place with 300,000 plastics," Orina said adding that a lot of plastics from a firm in Uganda had been nabbed in Mombasa. He blamed the lack of proper laws between East African Community countries. "We have EAC legislative assembly bill on plastics ban. The problem is that apart from Rwanda that has clear polices and enforcement strategies, other countries do not have,"Orina told the Star. Chapter 19 of the Treaty for the EAC enjoins Partner States to co-operate in all issues of environmental and Natural resources management. The EAC polythene materials control bill provides legal framework for preservation of a clean and healthy environment through prohibition of manufacturing, sale,importation and use of polythene materials. Only Rwanda has succeeded in banning plastics. EAC CS Peter Munya,told the Star on phone yesterday that EAC Polythene Materials Control Bill, 2016 was passed but has never been assented to by member states. "We are working with partner states to have a ban since it is the most ideal because we cannot police all the borders. We will revive the initiative ourselves because common market will not work without a standardized packaging of goods," Munya said Three major paper bags manufacturers in Nairobi's industrial area told the Star that tonnes of banned plastics from Uganda are coming into the country. "We were told to produce alternatives after the ban took effect August 28. However, banned plastics coming from our neighbours is destroying our markets even as we recover,"a manufacturer who sought anonymity said. Kenya banned “the use, manufacture and importation of all plastic bags used for commercial and household packaging”, which fall into two categories — carrier bags and flat bags. A carrier bag is one that is “constructed with handles, and with or without gussets”, while a flat bag is one constructed without handles, and with or without gussets, an extra piece of material to make it wider, stronger or more comfortable. The ban took effect August 28. Anyone violating the ban faces between one and two years jail term or a fine of between Sh2 million to Sh4 million. Manufacturers are now accusing state for not enforcing the law. “Consumers who buy these banned plastics are not doing us any favour as they are promoting countries outside." The manufacturer said his company has invested 700,000 Euros acquiring new state of the art machine that produces two million paper bags per day. “We have done our duty by shifting to paper bags and it is now up to the government to enforce the law to ensure that plastics are not coming from our neighbours,” he said asking Kenyans to support local industries. Secretary of the National Environment Complains Committee John Chumo confirmed that they have continued receiving complaints over unscrupulous business men sneaking in the banned products. "We have received complaints from Busia, Kitale, Turkana, Kakamega, and Kisumu. The complainants say the banned carrier bags are from Uganda," he said. Another manufacturer urged the government to ensure that as one tree is cut for purposes of producing the alternatives,it must be replaced immediately. He said he imports raw materials from factories in Tanzania and Europe. The manufacturers are now worried that will the implementation of the Common Market Protocol, things could worsen. The pact which was enforced on July 1, 2010 allows for free movement of goods, people, labour, services and capital among the six partner states — South Sudan being the latest member. The Kenya Veterinary Association Treasurer Kenneth Wameo said cows have in the recent past been major culprits of plastics especially when they cross to countries that have not banned plastics. "Having the law is one thing enforcing is the other,"Wameo said.