Kenya commercial Bank women’s team will make debut at the annual Genocide Memorial tournament set for June 9-10 at the Amahoro Stadium in Kigali, Rwanda. The bankers are the only Kenyan representative at the event used annually to honour the victims of the 1994 Genocide including players, coaches and administrators, who lost their lives. Team manager Moses Kimani confirmed the team, which begin training today at the indoor Arena, Kasarani, will depart for the host nation on June 6. He said the team has been away from the international scene for a while now and believes the Genocide event is a perfect stage for them to make international come back. “We are keen to participate in the next year’s Africa Club Championship, where we last featured in 2015 in Egypt. I, therefore, hope the experience and exposure we will pick from the two-day event will come in handy in the league going forward,” said the official. He added: “It’s fulfilling that our management has facilitated our travel and it’s upon us to ensure we reciprocate the good gesture and hopefully post good results.” The bankers are expected to face stiff competition from host teams, especially defending champions APR as well as teams from Uganda Cameroon, Uganda, Congo Brazzaville, Burundi, Tanzania and Congo Kinshasa. At the same time, Kimani admitted that the season is competitive and observed it will be interesting to see who books the four slot for the play-offs. Kimani said: “On paper, Pipeline and Prisons are firm favourites to take the first two slots but for the remaining two slots, it’s wide open but we are keen to take one of the two and see what happens from there.” He added: "The new outfits in DCI, Kenya Defence Forces and league returnee Bungoma County have shown they are no push overs and it will be interesting to see how all this will pan out." KCB have always played second fiddle to champions Kenya Pipeline and former champions Kenya Prisons in the play-offs. Click here for the latest political news