Some Nairobi MCAs have given Governor Mike Sonko seven days to nominate a deputy governor or face legal action. The ward representatives, led by minority chief whip Peter Imwatok, said the county is in a mess because the governor lacks a deputy to advise him. Sonko has been criticised over the deplorable state of roads, garbage menace, growing number of street families and traffic gridlocks. But he has defended himself, saying he is still in his early days in office and pleaded for more time to deliver on his pledges. “We see how the county is, garbage everywhere, roads are in bad condition and all the blame is directed at the governor. He needs a deputy to advise him and do some of these jobs, especially supervisory,” Imwatok told a press conference at City Hall yesterday. Sonko found himself without a deputy after Polycarp Igathe resigned in January. Must read : Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him On March 9, the Supreme Court gave an advisory to Sonko and his Nyeri counterpart Mutahi Kahiga to nominate deputies. Kahiga became governor following the death of Governor Wahome Gakuru in November last year. Kahiga was Gakuru’s deputy. The court gave the governors 14 days to nominate deputies and forward the names to their county assemblies for consideration within 60 days. Last month Kahiga nominated Carol Karugu to deputise him. She has been approved by the assembly and sworn in. Sonko is yet to nominate a deputy. Although lawyers argued that the court advisory was not an order that the governors had to comply with, Imwatok said Sonko appears to have ignored or disregarded it. “I don’t believe the mess we are seeing in Nairobi would be here if Igathe was still the deputy. We need a deputy to help the governor deliver,” he said. Must read : Sonko likely to name Agnes Kagure as deputy governor Recently, Sonko said he was considering appointing a woman from the Kikuyu community as his deputy. Imwatok said, “We don’t care about the tribe. Nairobi has many people, professionals. All we want is a deputy." Businesswoman Agnes Kagure and former Kiambu Woman Representative Annah Nyokabi are said to be front-runners for the seat. Click here for the latest political news