Former MPs are among top public servants and other prominent individuals shortlisted for major commission jobs. The candidates, mostly from academia and political class, will be battling to be either chairpersons or members of the National Gender and Equality Commission, the Commission on Administrative of Justice (Ombudsman) or chair of the Public Service Commission. Recruitment follows expiry of the terms of the previous office holders. Former Gender commission chairperson Winfred Lichuma and her team of commissioners left office last year. The Ombudsman’s office has also been without a substantive head following the early retirement of the first chairman, lawyer Otiende Amollo, in November 2016. He is now Rarieda MP. The Public Service Commission has been without a substantive chair since Margaret Kobia was appointed Cabinet Secretary early this year. A total of 1,097 candidates applied. Those who failed to make the cut for Kobia’s PSC succesor are former Salaries and Remuneration Commission chairperson Sarah Serem, former Education PS George Godia, former Kanduyi MP Alfred Khang’ati and former Moi University acting VC Laban Ayiro. The Ombudsman’s post attracted 27 applicants, out of which seven were shortlisted. Only four were shortlisted from a pool of 48 applicants for the NGEC chair. Former Meru Woman Representative Florence Kajuju, her Nyeri counterpart Priscilla Nyokabi and the former director of legal and Tororey, are among those who made the short list. The others are Nairobi-based law lecturer Morris Kiwinda Mbondenyi, Sony Sugar board chairman Ambrose Otieno Weda, Transparency International executive director Samuel Kimeu, former vice-chair of the defunctElectoral Commission of Kenya Pamela Mwikali Tuiti and John Kipkoech Chebii. In the race to succeed Lichuma are former Marakwet East lawmaker Linah Jebii Kilimo and Kenyatta University don Grace Wamue- Ngare. Other contenders for head of the Gender Commission include Egerton University lecturer Damaris Seleina Parsitau and Rodah Chepkopus Rotino. Former Egerton University vice chancellor James Tuitoek and nine other candidates will face an interview panel on Tuesday next week. The nine include Jonathan Lodompiu, Roda Awinja, Stephen Kirogo, Rukia Sheikh, Njoki Kahiga, Bakari Garise, Juster Nkoroi, Rose Aoko Ogwang and Cherop Menguich. Nyokabi has applied to be a member. PUBLIC’S VIEWS SOUGHT The selection panel shortlisted 15 candidates out of the 388 applicants for members of the Commission on the Administration of Justice(CAJ). Interviews for Ombudsman chairperson begin tomorrow while those for commissioners will be conducted on Friday. The public has until the close of business today to participate in the recruitmeby submitting written memorandum on the candidates. NGEC candidates will face the interview panel on May 28 at Kenyatta International Convention Center. Interviews for Ombudsman’s chairperson begin today.