Kabuchai MP James Lusweti has lashed out at leaders opposing Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula and ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi’s bid to form one party. Wetang’ula and Mudavadi have hinted at a possibility of dissolving their parties and forming one party to unify Luhyas. Jubilee leaders, led by Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka have opposed the move, saying it is headed nowhere without a national outlook. Lusweti said the region has been used by outsiders during elections and it is high time Luhyas unite and speak in one voice if one of them is to become President. He spoke in Musese on Monday after distributing bursary cheques. Lusweti said those against the formation of one party will be perceived as enemies of Mulembe nation. “Let us speak the truth as Luhya people for once because we have some funny and strange people in our midst who are trying to bring bad blood between Musalia and Wetang’ula – who want to unite under one party,” he said. Lusweti said the unification is long overdue and will earn the community respect from outsiders. “Let us get this right – the two do not want to unite Luhyas in one party, but under one strong voice so that we can be respected by other communities as a house that is in order,” he said. Luswati said no Luhya applied to belong to the community, but rather, it was God’s will. “We want that when we move to a certain region like the Rift Valley, they say Luhyas have arrived with one voice, not as a divided house,” he said. selfish “We have 42 MPs, with senators, governors, woman reps and MCAs and if we go to a place like Trans Nzoia and if you aren’t with us, you will not be allowed to speak since you will be perceived to be an enemy of Luhyas.” Luswati said Jubilee leaders waiting for opposition MPs to join the party are dreaming. “You are there with your own position that might end after five years. You are there as a lone ranger, not with the rest of us Luhyas,” he said. Luswati urged Lusaka and devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa to join the wave and move forward as Luhyas regardless of political differenc He said Luhyas are the second biggest tribe and their unity will shake those who have been using the community for selfish gain. Luswati warned leaders who go for radio interviews to avoid talking ill about other leaders, saying that that is the greatest source of disunity. confused “When we speak about others as elected leaders, we are going wrong. You should not talk about others – talk about your agenda,” he said. Luswati described opposition chief Raila Odinga as confused, adding he needs to retire. Click here for the latest political news   