A teen on Thursday gave an emotional account of the last moments of Stephanie Moraa, a 9-year-old girl who was shot dead during the 2017 post-poll chaos. Moraa was allegedly shot by police on August 12 last year while playing with other children in Mathare North. The police were fighting protesters who were unhappy with the declaration of President Uhuru Kenyatta as the winner of the August 8 General Election. The teen testified before an inquest that is trying to establish circumstances that led to Moraa's death. It was formed following a KNHRC report which showed that seven children were among 37 people killed by police officers three days after the August 2017 polls. Read: DPP forms public inquest on Baby Pendo, Stephanie Moraa killings The witness told the court that Stephanie and three other friends were watching the events from their houses' balcony in Mathare when she was shot. The 15-year-old girl told chief Magistrate Francis Andayi that: "I saw blood oozing from Stephanie’s back, while smoke coming out of her stomach." She said this was moments after police ordered them out of the balcony. "I moved to a safe distance. But moments later, I saw Stephanie lying on the floor." "Stephanie grabbed Mose - a neighbour, and asked him three times, help me! help me! help me! and then she closed her eyes," the girl told the court. From the balcony, the girls said she could see young men pelting the police with stones on the main road. Moments later, she said three police officers moved near their house and chased away the young men. "I saw one of the police officers coming near our house. He was pointing his gun towards the social hall but he later tuned towards us," the girl said. The girl said Mose earlier came from the house and asked them to move away from the balcony as it was not safe. "I also tried to pull Stephanie but she told me to leave her alone," she said. She also told court that her friends Max and Valentine thought Stephanie was shocked and that they even laughed when she fell, only to realise moments later that she had been injured. "I screamed and ran to call Stephanie’s mother who was at the first floor," the witness said. She said that the incident drew a huge crowd and more police officers were sent into the area. The inquest continues. Read more: Girl, 9, shot by cops in Mathare buried in Kisii Click here for the latest political news   