Once upon a time in a small town a blind man lived by himself. He always carried a lighted lamp with him whenever he went out at night. One night as he was coming home after having dinner, he met a group of young travellers. They saw that he was blind, yet he carried a lighted lamp and started making fun of him. One of them asked him, “Hey man! You are blind and can’t see anything! Why do you carry the lamp then?” The blind man replied, “Yes, unfortunately, I am blind and I can’t see anything but a lighted lamp which I am carrying is for the people like you who can see. You may not see the blind man coming and end up pushing me. That is why I carry a lighted lamp.” The travellers felt ashamed and apologised. Last week, in all the darkness of ethnic and political hatred that has engulfed Kenya over the years, one man walked with a lamp and moved to shine a light on the path to our future. President Uhuru Kenyatta did one of the most humbling things that any leader can do apologise for uttering words that may have hurt the country’s unity fabric during the campaigns. In essence, Uhuru was like the blind man, offering us the light we need to wade past divisions mostly brought about by ethnic politics. He was lighting the way for us not to go back to our old ways of divisive politics. The President was guiding us through the path of reconciliation and national unity as the great people of this republic. He ended his speech by telling us that we must focus on politics of development for the sake of Kenya’s future. Uhuru’s apology brought back a sense of nostalgia; it reminded me of my younger days when we would watch national holiday celebrations on KBC. Each holiday, KBC would replay scenes from when the nation gained Independence after years of oppression by colonialists. One of the things that stood out to me was how the nation was united, and as the Union Jack went down and the Kenyan flag was hoisted, a feeling of nationalism and oneness swept the nation. Kenyans were rejoicing, hugging each other and even considered fellow compatriots as brothers and sisters. It was because of this indivisible spirit and unshakable unity that our nation was able to grow in every sphere. During Uhuru’s State of the Nation address, it was refreshing to see him preach reconciliation, and to watch the legislators shake each other’s hands. The President also spoke on the many achievements of the Jubilee administration, and how the Big Four will become a central pillar towards the administration’s goal of transforming Kenya. From his speech, we were reminded that last year ill-gotten public assets valued at about Sh500 million were recovered; and civil proceedings were instituted for the preservation and recovery of other assets valued at more than Sh6 billion. Despite drought and a long electioneering period, Kenya’s real Gross Domestic Product grew by 4.9 per cent in 2017, much higher than the global 3.6 per and 2.6 per cent for sub-Saharan Africa. The SGR cargo services started on January 1, 2018, with an initial monthly load of 22,345 metric tonnes, rising to an impressive 213,559 metric tonnes per month as at the end of April. These figures are not just meant to make us feel happy but to demonstrate that with focus on development, the country can prosper as we all aspire. This is the reason that we must use the light from Uhuru’s lamp to ensure that we don’t slide back to the era of divisive politics. No one is more Kenyan than the other. Hatred and politics of division must end.  Political and communications consultant. @MachelWaikenda 