The maiden state visit by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed is aimed at bolstering his country's ties with Kenya. Ahmed, who arrived on Sunday, is expected to hold talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta and take stock of progress made on deals in 2016 and earlier. Uhuru and former PM Hailemariam Desalegn signed infrastructure and other deals when he visited two years ago. The two nations have also signed agreements on cooperation in the oil and gas sector, health, sports, animal health and sanitary measures as well as education. In 2016, they agreed to the construction of a pipeline from Lamu to Addis Ababa, the routes being Nakuru-Isiolo-Moyale-Awasa and Lamu-Isiolo-Moyale-Awasa. Kenya and Ethiopia also agreed on a Joint Railway Commission and Project Coordination Committee to help in the implementation of the bilateral agreement signed in March 2012 in Nairobi. Read: Uhuru congratulates Ethiopia PM Abiy Ahmed, pledges stronger ties Also read: Kenya signs oil pipeline pact with Ethiopia after Uganda snub On arrival, the new PM was received by Foreign Affairs CS Monica Juma, her Labour counterpart Ukur Yattani and Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. The President will receive the PM at State House, Nairobi. The new PM took office in April this year. On Sunday, State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu said: “We feel deeply honoured that he chose Kenya for his maiden foreign trip since his election." Kenya and Ethiopia's ties were deepened further by the Special Status Agreement between the two countries. Most Ethiopians believe the premier will pursue political reforms. And given his leadership role in the Oromo People’s Democratic Organisation, his ascension to the top political post in the country could be a game changer. According to The Conversation, the new leadership led by Ahmed must also figure out how to strengthen Ethiopia’s position in a volatile region, and how to nurture inter-state dialogue. More on this: Why Ethiopia’s Prime Minister could be a game changer Click here for the latest political news