Just
who among top politicians from Homa Bay county is too close to NASA chief Raila
Odinga? Well. This is the question many residents are asking as the county’s
political heavyweights position themselves to wrestle for the governor’s
position ahead of the ruling of an appeal lodged by embattled Governor Cyprian
Awiti. It appears the hyena syndrome of hoping that the hand could drop off has
taken the county by storm as politicians eyeing the seat try to outdo each
other. There are reports that a female politician from the county, keen on the
position, has been hosting delegations at her rural home to outdo her male
counterparts said to be having deep pockets and enjoying close ties with Raila. ***** An
embattled former City Hall official is a man under siege after his wife
allegedly took off with millions of shillings he had kept in the house. The
woman is said to have fled the country after the husband lost his lucrative job
and his fortunes began to dwindle. The former official who is reported to have
made millions of shillings from shoddy dealings with the county has been
keeping his tribulations to himself to avoid attention from the tax man. 
Corridors is informed that the man is stranded, unsure whether to involve investigative
agencies — which would invite them to his private dealings or not.***** A
female MP is now the talk among her peers over the crude and uncivilised
language she sometimes resorts to while engaging thousands of her followers on social
media. Our mole found two MPs – male and female –over the weekend going through
the Facebook chats of the female lawmaker where she allegedly hit at a popular
blogger with unprintables. The two youthful MPs took it upon themselves to
raise the matter with the lawmaker claiming she is embarrassing members of the
August house with frequent insults on her page. ***** Nairobi city businessmen are a rattled lot and it
is said that it is only a matter of days before they strike back. The
businessmen including some CEOs of public parastatals have been irked by city
cartels extorting money from them. The unrelenting racketeers are led by a
former scribe who quit a media house to open a PR company. The middle-aged man
has been approaching companies for business and intimidating those that decline
to give him. He threatens to ensure that they are covered negatively. The young
man who recently disappeared with Sh700 million which was meant for a group of
people is said to be working hand-in-hand with a senior manager to intimidate
them. Click here for the latest political news