Attorney General Paul Kihara has dismissed claims his office was involved in the partial payment of Sh1.5 billion to a private firm for acquisition of land hosting two city public schools. Kihara maintains his predecessor — Githu Muigai —only offered legal advise to Education PS Belio Kipsang’ over the disputed land, where Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary Schools are. The AG told the National Assembly Lands Committee last week that his office received a letter from Kipsang’ on June 29 last year, requesting for legal advise on the compulsory acquisition of the property. “Vide our letter dated July 7, 2017, my predecessor issued an advisory on the legal basis and efficacy of the acquisition. ...the office advised on the import of Article 40 ( 3 ), which provides that for compulsory acquisition, the land must be acquired for public purpose or in the public interest and that there should be prompt payment in full, or just compensation to the person,” Kihara said. “The involvement of the Attorney General’s office was limited to its advisory opinion issued on July 7, 2017 as demonstrated above.” Kihara told the committee chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai his office was not consulted further when the Ministry of Education and the National Land Commission processed the partial payment of Sh1.5 billion on January 29. The sum was part of the Sh3.2 billion compensation paid to Whispering Palms Estate Ltd — sister company to Afrison Export and Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd. Read:MPs probe Sh3b payment for Ruaraka school land “No advise has been sought in regard to the recent compensation. I cannot tell you whether the NLC fulfilled the requirement of the Lands Act during the compensation,” Kihara said. Managing director of Afrison and Huelands’s Francis Mburu claims nine individuals, led by Meshack Odhiambo, had hatched plans to extort Sh280 million from him. “The plan by the cartels was to extort Sh280 million from part of our claim of Sh1.5 billion as compensation for land occupied by the government institutions. As a result, they formulated lies and fabricated untruths against us,” Mburu said. Also Read:Schools don’t own Ruaraka land, says NLC Click here for the latest political news