The hearing of an inquest into the death of 29 people during a fire explosion at Nakumatt Downtown has been adjourned to June 6. supermarket at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue along Kimathi street, Nairobi county eight years ago was put off until June 5. Milimani principal magistrate Martha Mutuku summoned Emmanuel Ng'etich to appear in court on the same day. Corporal Ngetich was the officer investigating the case. Mutuku wants him to explain why he failed to avail witnesses. The summon followed an application from state prosecutor Daniel Karuri. The inquest was recommended following Ngetich's investigations. The adjournment followed the end of a testimony by government pathologist Amritpal Kalsi. Kalsi produced postmortem results for 17 of the 29 victims of the January 28, 2009 inferno. The victims died from severe burns. The fire is believed to have been caused by an explosion of gas cylinders. Among the dead were five employees of the supermarket. At least 27 witnesses, including the chain store director Atul Shah, have testified. Ngetich listed 120 witnesses. During the last hearing the court heard that on January 28,2009, at about 2.30pm inside the supermarket, a smoke was seen emanating from the generator room which was stationed on the ground floor near the stairs which lead to mezzanine floor. The witnesses told the court that the supermarket was a single store building. They said immediately there after, an explosion was heard which allegedly caused a blackout within the entire building. The court heard that efforts were made by the staffs to extinguish the fire but were overcome by it. The court heard that during the evacuation exercise those shoppers and staffs who were at the ground floor managed to escape using the entrance and exit doors, but the fate of the shoppers and staffs who were upstairs on the mezzanine floor could not be immediately established. They said that the supermarket management quickly conducted the city fire brigade who responded immediately and started to fight the fierce fire emanating from the building. The court heard that it took the combined force of at least to ten fire engines from Nairobi city council, the Kenya Air force, the Kenya Airport Authority, Nairobi fire services and the G.4.S Security form to control the inferno but it was all in vain. The court heard that a huge smoke engulfed the building before an explosion was heard from the basement. The smoke hampered visibility, making rescue efforts difficult. "The scene attracted hundreds of curious onlookers as desperate relatives search for their loved ones," a witness said. Rescue went on for three days. Most of the bodies were found on the mezzanine floor. The fire fighting exercise continued for three consecutive days without any fruitful success. The 29 people were badly burnt bodies were found at the upstairs on the mezzanine floor trapped in the debris. The court heard that during investigation by The defunct Nairobi City Council said the fire was caused by high voltage. But Kenya Power engineers denied the claim, saying other customers on the line did not experience the same. on the side of Electricity due to power surge. But the K.P.L.C Engineers in their findings, vehemently denied the council report and ruled out power surge from their main supply line-since other customers connected on the same line did not experience the same.