DP William Ruto did not meet retired President Daniel arap Moi on Thursday as he was undergoing routine physical exercises with his doctors. A statement from Moi's office stated that Ruto went to his Kabarak home with Energy CS Charles Keter, Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut and lawyer Stephen Kipkenda. They had lunch at the home and "Mzee Moi agreed to meet the visitors at a convenient time on another day in the very near future". Ruto started his day with the official launch of the Rapid Results Initiative at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi's Lower Kabete area. He was to fly to Murang'a county for a burial but reportedly opted to head to Moi's residence first. He attended the funeral service of businessman SK Macharia's son, John, at Ndakaini village in the county. Handshakes and visits to the former President's home have been the order of the day since March 9, when President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga announced their decision to work together. The grand goals are national healing, reconciliation, peace, unity and development. The handshake stirred 2022 politics so meetings with Moi have touched on this. Uhuru was sworn-in for his second term in November last year but politicians are already strategising on the next general election. Related: Uhuru, Raila, Moi talks fuel 2022 succession debate In addition, the country is a conciliatory mood, especially since the President apologised for failing the unity test in his State of the Nation Address on Wednesday. Ruto issued a similar statement shortly after, apologising "unreservedly to anyone he had offended through his words or actions. "Find it in your heart to forgive me. I have forgiven all those who wronged me. Let's embark on building the bridges of friendship and unity," he wrote on his Twitter page. More on this: [VIDEO] Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino Also read: Forgive me too, Ruto tells Kenyans after Uhuru's State of the Nation speech Since the unity deal, Raila has represented Kenya at some functions and has met Moi, Kibaki and Jubilee Party leaders including Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. Meanwhile, Jubilee appeared to test the waters  yesterday, for an expansion of the Cabinet, with a proposal to create a Chief Minister post. A leaked draft Bill — The Constitution of Kenya, 2010 (Amendment) Bill, 2018 — proposes the creation of the position of Chief Minister. It is authored by a Jubilee strategist. Raila and his ODM party have supported the proposal to amend the Constitution while the Deputy President has publicly and vehemently opposed the suggestion. Read more: Jubilee plans Chief Minister post to address ethnic strife Click here for the latest political news 