The resist-and-boycott strategy was part of the asymmetric 'street-based'
strategy the opposition rolled out after the announcement
of presidential results. Paul
Virilio famously said, “The
revolutionary contingent attains its ideal form not in the place of
production, but in the street, where for a moment it stops being a cog
in the technical machine and itself becomes a motor (machine of attack),
in other words a producer of speed." For NASA, this was clearly an effective strategy of attrition up to a point. Airtel, I
believe, gained a million customers and Bidco and
Brookside got squeezed in opposition strongholds. The Handshake and rapprochement (which turned into a Malcolm Gladwell-like
virus and had spread to the Korean Peninsula) was
very symbolic. However, now we are seeing meaningful follow-through as
evidenced in this May Day declaration by Raila Odinga. The challenge
with boycotting Safaricom is that Safaricom is a Need not a Want.
To boycott it is to essentially cut yourself off from the
21st century. It's not possible. Furthermore, it was the Common Man, the Foot Soldier, who was making all the sacrifices. Therefore, this strategy of asymmetry and attrition was
going to run out of road. The decision to call the boycott off was correct. The point had been proven, there was no more juice to be squeezed. Yet there's plenty of juice to be squeezed from being seen as properly ready for reconciliation. The economy took hits last year. The first whammy was drought (now reversed), second the credit squeeze (the CS Treasury seems to be
threading the needle) and the third whammy was not one but two
elections. Kenya slid to the lowest rate of GDP expansion in six years. Throw in the boycott and we were teetering. In rolling up his boycott, Raila signals he understands the pain the economy has inflicted on his
supporters and on business. Most businesses say Q4 was a horror-show. In terms of messaging, particularly to owners of capital (even someone with $500 savings), this is important. We were at the bleeding edge of Railanomics. This was a statesmanlike decision. The economy is set to bounce hard in 2018.  The writer, a financial analyst, spoke to the Star. 