Title: This Is America Artiste: Childish Gambino Genre: Hip hop/ Rap, Trap Release: May 7  Earlier this year, after securing his first Grammy Award for best traditional R&B performance with “Redbone,” Donald Glover confirmed he would retire Childish Gambino after his upcoming album. Aesthetically, his first two rap studio albums have been masterpieces, but 2016’s R&B project, “Awaken, My Love!” was more than that. It was a mind-boggling statement. When Childish Gambino is not making music, he is creating and starring in films as his artistic self, Donald Glover. He is a Jack of all trades. His show, Atlanta, is probably the biggest comedy-drama, currently in it’s second season. His new song, “This is America,” is a phenomenon. Its visuals tell the whole story, giving a mighty reference to black culture and what it’s all about while living in America. He exhibits a juxtapose of the pop culture’s portrayal that distracts us from the barbaric and chaotic situation happening in the background. Childish Gambino appears shirtless (probably inspired by Fela Kuti) pulling idiosyncratic dance moves, every so often joined by black school children in uniform, who seem to be having the time of their lives. The choreography references some of Africa’s top dance moves, including the Shoki, Gwara Gwara and Shaku Shaku. While all this is happening, there’s a disorderly background, which metaphorically represents the confounding situation in the American society. In two separate instances in the video, Gambino fires at black subjects: a man whose head is covered with a bag and a church choir that helps perform the hook. There’s the presence of police cars and at one point we spot a hooded figure riding a horse past the scene. For those wowed by the intricacy, his performance is an artistic and politically charged attack on gun violence, consumerrism and racial profiling. “This is America” is a complex concept with a minimalist delivery. We know how the artiste feels about the Migos and probably that inspires this trap-influenced track. He does justice to the piece. Whether he sticks by his real name Donald Glover or goes by his pseudonym Childish Gambino, he comes out as a true epitome of artistry. We can’t wait for the full-length EP to drop.   Star Rating: 5/5