If
this handshake were to break, I predict anarchy.
Contrary to popular thinking, the anger of NASA supporters can be
reignited easily and swiftly. Many
opposition supporters have never trusted this handshake.
Therefore, a degree of madness and uncontrolled anger
would return, almost automatically. It took just one man, NASA's Raila Odinga, to shake
Uhuru's hand and everything went quiet. If Uhuru were to betray the
handshake — because he is the only man with the power to do
that — I see a deflated Raila. Of course, Raila
could reinvent himself. But supposing he calls it quits, there
would be trouble. Without
a captain to control the opposition, especially the youth, a captain to
navigate and channel the anger, turmoil would be inevitable. If
you're a headmaster, for instance, you need leadership on the
students' side to run the school. Therefore,
we must give our all to this handshake because the
alternative is ominous. There are torrents of anger in this
country. Against the Jubilee administration. Against Uhuru Kenyatta.
We need a leader to control that anger. If fury is left unchecked, this
country can degenerate into something else. Look at the Central Africa
Republic. When the swearing-in madness was at
its peak, when NASA was pushing for product boycotts, do you
remember youths wanting to uproot Safaricom masts and destroy everything? That's what I'm talking about. The
handshake brought peace instantaneously. As soon as it happened, so did many other things: peace,
business revival, the eventual recognition of Uhuru Kenyatta.
All these are at risk. Some say Raila's reputation and political life
will suffer irreparably if the handshake doesn't work. They say he burned bridges and abandoned his comrades. But
Jubilee
will also have the problem of restoring trust within its ranks if the
handshake fails. Trust will be broken to the point of no return. Anybody
who would celebrate failure of the handshake — thinking it would bring
back a united Jubilee and doom the opposition — is dead wrong. The University don spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news