Equity Bank Group defied new financial reporting rules –IFRS9 –to grow its first quarter profits by 22 per cent. The IFRS 9 rules, for instance, require financial institutions to recognise risk at the beginning and during the entire loan’s credit life cycle. Equity achieved a growth in profit through diversified investment away from consumer loans. The bank yesterday announced a net profit of Sh5.9 billion for the first quarter, up from Sh4.9 billion posted in the corresponding quarter last year. This, even after putting aside Sh9.8 billion in line with IFRS9 provisions. Equity’s loan book expanded by 3.5 per cent to Sh271.1 billion during the quarter with its total interest income rising by 10.5 per cent to Sh12.6 billion in the period. Interest income from loans and advances rose 6.97 per cent to Sh8.76 billion.  DIVERSIFIED Equity Bank ramped up its purchase of government debt by 33 per cent to Sh150.1 billion which paid off as interest earnings from the securities rose by 24.96 per cent or Sh73.9 million to Sh3.7 billion. Its non-interest income went up by six per cent or Sh382.5 million to Sh6.71 billion in the period, helping it boost margins. According to Equity Bank chief executive James Mwangi, the growth was as a result of serial innovation and diversified investment channels targeting non-funded income to caution against the tough interest cap regime. “We adopted a cautious approach in credit underwriting because of inability to price risk. Digitisation also helped us widen Equity Bank’s net profit,” he said. Mwangi urged Parliament to act with speed to reverse the interest capping law, which he blamed for the general slow growth in the economy.  PRIVATE LENDING “We pumped more money into government securities. This means that, private continue to suffer, with private lending slowing dropping from 22.1 per cent in June 2016 to the current low of 1.8 per cent.” Mwangi said the public sector is getting a disproportionate share of funds – while loans grow at four per cent, government securities have grown by 33 per cent. “At least Sh10 billion of government bonds mature every month and we can deploy that to customers once interest rates adjust,” he said.