Accountants have cautioned the state against rushing amendments to the tax regime that would push up corporate tax to 35 per cent from the current 30. The amendments which will also see those who earn more than Sh750,000 a month taxed at the rate of 35 per cent are contained in the Income Tax Bill 2018 Bill which seeks to overhaul the current Income Tax Act enacted in 1974. The Institute of Certified Public Accountants said that even though it supports the Bill, there are areas that require attention and input from stakeholders and the public. Chairman Julius Mwatu said there is a need to get independent views. He spoke at a press conference on the sidelines of the 34th ICPAK conference in Mombasa. Mwatu said that although an increase in corporate tax would raise tax revenues, the flip-side is that it would scare away investors. Globally, the average corporate tax rate stands at 22.5 per cent while in Africa it is 28.5 per cent. “This heavy tax burden imposition is likely to scare away investors contrary to the global best practice of giving such corporate investors tax incentives to do business that in turn provides employment opportunities as well as growing the economy,” Mwatu said. He said while taxing high income earners more would increase collection from personal income tax, the state has not taken into account the implication of inflation in the economy. “The income tax framework should capture overall economic environment of the nation to grow the disposable income for households,” said Mwatu. NO STRONG POLICY BACKGROUND Mwatu said the policy framework needed to guide the formation of this legislation is missing, therefore, it might present legal and operational challenges at the implementation stage. “The ideal and recommended position in the legislative process is that policy precedes the formulation of a Bill or any other legislative instrument,” said Mwatiu. He said it is important to have policy framework first, because it is intended to allow the executors to determine a clear roadmap, assess the problem and possible solutions. “On overall, we hold the opinion that the Income Tax reforms through the published Bill is not founded on a strong policy background. It is our understanding that it is crafted to address the short-term revenue objective at the expense of the overall policy objective to spur economic activity through the private sector which is the engine of growth,” Mwatu said. In supporting the Bill, ICPAK said an overhaul of Income Tax Act is expected to cure the inconsistencies in the law. Mwatu said the inconsistencies have been caused by numerous amendments to the existing tax laws including VAT, Excise Duty, Tax Procedures, Miscellaneous Levies and the Tax Appeal Tribunal Acts.