Bungoma MCAs have accused Governor Wycliffe Wangamati of appointing cronies
to top positions in his government without following the law and procedure. Khalaba MCA Majimbo Okumu said the governor unlawfully created jobs that didn’t exit
in the county government structure. “It is unfortunate that the county boss is blatantly creating positions
contrary to the provisions of sections 59, 60 and 62 of the County Governments
Act, 2012,” he said. Okumu said the governor created the post of county investment secretary,
equivalent to a county executive, without the assembly’s approval. Wangamati
allegedly appointed a friend to the post. When the MCAs raised the issue, the Bungoma county secretary and head of
public service purportedly wrote to the assembly asking it to regularise the
governor’s unlawful decision, Okumu said. The MCAs rejected the decision, insisting instead that the governor should
follow due process. The county public service board should have seconded the name and not the
county secretary, Okumu said. “Apart from that, the position should have been sourced competitively and
not the governor picking one of his friends,” the MCA said. MCA Paul Wamalwa  wondered why the governor wanted to take
shortcuts in employing people and commit public funds to an illegal office. Governor Wangamati’s director of communications Tim Machi, however, refuted
the claims saying the office had not yet been sanctioned and was not running. He said the process was with county public service board that was
prioritising appointments of chief officers before forwarding the name of
county investment secretary to the assembly. “We all know that there was a problem with the county public service board
but now that they are back. I am sure they are working on it,” Machi said. He added no money had been allocated to that office despite the governor
naming Cliff Koyabe as the county public investment secretary. Governor Wangamati suffered a major setback last month when six members of
the county public service board he had sacked were reinstated after months of a
legal tussle. Wangamati had accused the board of graft. The Employment and
Labour Relations Court ordered the six to resume work immediately.