The Kenya Simbas are grappling with a Sh35m deficit as they head to South Africa for two build up matches next month. The Simbas are slated to play Boland and Western Province between June 9-16 a week before they start their Rugby World Cup qualifiers against Morocco in Casablanca on June 23. KRU are expecting funding from the trip from the government following the exit of the then sponsor SportPesa earlier this year which have left them in the red. The union held a board meeting on Monday where the proposed trip was discussed and confirmed with the aim of giving the Simbas the best possible preparations for the qualifiers. The Simbas are expected to undergo three-day high altitude camp in Nanyuki in conjunction with the British Army Training Unit (Batuk) before departing to Uganda for the first leg of the Elgon Cup which is slated for May 26 in Kampala. The team had intense training sessions under the watchful eye of head coaches Ian Snook and assistant Murry Roulston over the weekend at the Barclays Sports Club. Team manager Wangila Simiyu said they were working on fitness and conditioning, game strategy and tactics. “The players are confident and relishing the challenge. We have few days to tweak and work on our preparations before naming the team for the first international match against Uganda,” said Simiyu. Vice captain Darwin Mukidza said competition for places is high. “We are up to the task. Our preparations have gone well and the squad has been selected. The coaches want us to be fit since we want to play a fast-paced game,” said Mukidza. He observed that the players selected know what is at stake starting with the Elgon Cup in 10 days. “Its a big year for us. We came close to qualifying for the previous world cup and so we must be at our best in the upcoming matches to get a spot this time round,” added Mukidza. Elsewhere, Kenya has moved up one place in the World rugby ranking form 30 to 29 . The rise has been occasioned by South Korea’s loss to Hong Kong over the weekend. Kenya is now five places ahead of 34th placed Uganda whom they face in the Elgon Cup on Saturday 26 May in Kampala. Namibia and Zimbabwe maintained positions 24 and 44, respectively, as Morocco dropped one place to 40 while Tunisia moved one position up to 42.