“I am finished,” says a student of Kisii University, Kabarnet town campus, after its closure on May 1. Antony Chebet, 24, says he cannot afford the ‘expensive’ life outside Baringo county. He is a third-year business student from Kisonoi village, Baringo central subcounty. “I used to run my small business here in Kabarnet town to raise money for paying my school fees but how do I go and start my life again in another big town like Eldoret, Kisii or Kericho” said Chebet. He said his ageing parents were poor peasant farmers who don’t value education at all, besides their drunken behavior. “So I am forced to suspend my studies until another University is established in Baringo,” he said. DEATHBED OF UNIVERSITIES Welcome to Baringo County but do not utter a term like ‘University’ because the locals here will just laugh or get shocked about your innocence. The county number 30 is best branded for fears of insecurity occasioned by armed bandits among other outdated cultural practices. Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) and Early Marriages are also common practices being smartly engineered by clueless locals that never went to school in parts of Baringo. It is home to the Tugen, Ichamus and Pokot pastoral communities, whose major livelihoods solely depend on livestock. First time visitor to Kabarnet town, the County headquarters will be treated to a pin-drop silence, that cannot be broken even by the thousands of locals who are busy running up and down their normal daily businesses. Majority of the tall storey buildings being owned by departed or alive but aging political allies of former head of State Mzee Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi are now empty. Some were being occupied by crickets, wild cockroaches and rats that seem to be God-send to break the devil silence. MASS TRANSFERS You may not understand the meaning of the dead silence until someone approaches to tell you how the closure of five Universities in span of five years caused mass transfer of over 10,000 students. Owing to the closure, local market traders and landlords were now frustrated lot and mourning the loss of such a huge number of direct clients-Students. Kisii University is the latest institution of higher learning to close its Kabarnet, Baringo campus in May 1st this year. About 1000 students were transferred to Eldoret, Kapenguria, Kericho and Kisii main campus. The campus located at Kipnyegwei plaza along Kabarnet -Kabartonjo road opened its gates in May 2014 and enjoyed full political support of the former Governor Benjamin Cheboi administration. It was established to target students from humble background, especially from the pastoral communities, who could not afford the expensive cost of traveling and staying in Kisii main campus. It offered courses in faculty of education, arts and social sciences, School of business and economics, faculty of Information science and technology. Deputy Campus Director Andrew Toroitich confirmed the closure saying all university properties including text books, computers, desks, cabinets and lockers, files and assorted documents have been ferried to the main campus in an exercise which started on April 20. “We concluded everything by April 28 and the last batch of the items was removed from the rented building that has already been handed over to the owner” said Toroitch. Fate of the teaching and non-teaching members of staff, Toroitich stated, will be decided by the university management. The prompt closure was necessitated low student enrollment that made it impossible for the campus to pay the settle the accumulated sh10million house rent. Governor Stanley Kiptis is also blamed for failing to fulfill his pledge to settle the pending house rent and retain the University. The campus was shut down after the University management board met and decided to close Migori, Kapenguria and Kitale campuses to cut on cost of running. "This is to inform you that during the 111th University management board meeting on 21th February 2018, the university board has approved closure of the above campuses by May 1st 2018" read part of a letter seen by the star. The letter was signed by the University Vice Chancellor professor John Akama. Salving the university was futile even after over 600 students protested to governor Kiptis office in March 26. Earlier on in December, Kabarnet campus Director Chang'masa Sogomo laid off some 11 staff from the campus alleging high cost on paying their monthly salaries. "The student population has reduced in the campus to 500 from 1000 so making it difficult to pay staff” Sogomo said. The workers were hired by the former pioneer College Director Joseph Kandie who was transferred to serve as lecturer at Kisii main campus. CHAIN OF CLOSURES Several Universities have been trying in vain to establish campuses in Baringo since the reign of former Kanu regime. Among the casualties are Uganda-based Bugema University, Moi University-Mogotio Campus, Mt. Kenya, Egerton and Kenya Institute of Management (KIM). They were forced to close shops immediately due to low students’ enrolment between 1990s and 2018. In early 1990’s Egerton University was granted over 1000 hectors of land by retired President Moi to establish a campus to conduct research studies at Chemeroon in Baringo South Sub-county. It later disappeared mysteriously. In 2011, Bugema University under Elgen-View College-Eldoret extended a satellite campus to Kabarnet but it then vanished the same year due to low student enrolment. Later 2013 it come the highly cherished Mt Kenya University that attracted over 2,000 who turned up to take part time and regular certificate, degree and PhD courses at affordable fees. The campus located at Lel’Patai building later in 2014 rolled its carpets and left owing to what is believed to be political infiltration that saw students siphoned out to the then established Egerton and Kisii public universities. Mt Kenya University Vice Chancellor (VC) Professor Stanley Waudo said transfer of students then was alarming, adding that even the marketing department was straining to woo in new students. Prof Waudo said the University was established in the year 2000 to train Paramedics, Entrepreneurship Education and Information Science was planning to open more campuses in the major towns in Kenya. Former Governor Benjamin Cheboi called upon Baringo residents to consider take their students to the trusted public Universities -Kisii and Egerton. “These are now the Universities that you can enroll your children to because they are registered and recognized by the Kenyan government” Cheboi said in public forums. He even went ahead to snatch Mt Kenya University Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) that they offered to refurbish and maintain the ‘Nyayo’ monument statute at the town centre. "I wish Governor Cheboi was in office today, we would not have lost our University like this" A Kisii University student Mathew Borois said blaming Governor Kiptis for laxity. Baringo Members of County Assembly also tabled a motion aimed at saving the University but it was later thwarted. "I will help pay the pending house rent arrears" Kiptis told the students after claiming he went to meet the University council in Kisii, but he later failed his pledges at the eleventh hour. The institutions are however gone and never to set foot here in Baringo again, sending the county back to its initial virgin state once again. Not only Universities, but also small colleges such as one time remembered Cross-Excel and Morop owned by local proprietors got extinct at their initial stage. The only existing but struggling private colleges in Baringo are Bartek, Nehema and Apex being managed from their headquarters in Eldama-Ravine and Eldoret towns respectively. Click here for the latest political news