Vaccinations by mission hospitals saved Kenya from outbreaks of dangerous diseases during last year's nurses' strike, a new report shows. Faith-based facilities took up the vaccination during the 150 days when the medics went on strike. Government hospitals stopped the vaccination during the strike. The mission hospitals overstretched their capacity by 300 per cent to fill the gap. The report contained in the Kenya Health Information System says the immunisation saved Kenya from possible outbreaks of polio and measles. Read: Major setback as polio virus found in Eastleigh The report was compiled by John Njuguna of the Mukurweini public health office and will be presented today at the ongoing Kenya Medical Training Colleges scientific conference in Nairobi. “The strike adversely affected immunisation services in county referral hospitals,” Njuguna said. The nurses went on strike in June, to demand increased salaries and allowances. The 2018 Economic Survey shows only 63 per cent of children below the age of one were vaccinated in 2017, the lowest rate in 15 years. Most of those vaccinated went to mission hospitals. Njuguna took vaccination data from 18 county referral hospitals and 14 faith-based medical facilities during the strike. He compared the data with another obtained when nurses were at work. "County referral hospitals reported a decline of 56.9 per cent during the strike. Faith-based facilities reported an increase of 251.6 per cent during the same period," Njuguna said. According to the Ministry of Health, faith based health services usually account for 30 per cent of health care coverage in Kenya but this percentage is higher in the rural areas of Kenya. Read: Kids to get anti-polio jab after Nairobi virus scare During the strike, vaccine-derived polio virus was reported in Somalia, but was not found in Kenya until March this year. “The situation continues to pose substantial risks to the well-being of children. Continued accumulation of children who have not received any life-saving vaccines has created a great risk of an outbreak of vaccine-preventable diseases,” Unicef representative in Kenya Werner Schultink said. 'Herd immunity theory’ holds that if most people are vaccinated, they become immune to a disease, and so it is unlikely that anyone will get sick and infect anyone in the herd — including those who are unvaccinated. Immunisation coverage is measured as the proportion of infants who have received their third dose of diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough vaccines. “The highest decrease in coverage occurred in Narok and Nyamira counties at 24.1 and 22.3 per centage points, respectively. Laikipia and Turkana counties had the highest increase at 22.9 and 16.5 percentage points, respectively,” the 2018 Economic Survey said. Kenyan babies must be vaccinated against 10 childhood diseases by their first birthday. These diseases include pneumonia, polio, tetanus, diarrhoea, measles, whooping and diphtheria. In October, the government and Unicef moved to vaccinate 300,000 children aged below five in 11 counties worst-hit by the strike. Click here for the latest political news