Kenya was among countries that attended celebrations to mark United States’ move of its embassy from Tel Aviv to
Jerusalem on Sunday night, it has emerged. A senior Ministry of Foreign Affairs official,
who did not want to be named, confirmed on Tuesday that Kenyan officials attended the gala hosted by the Israeli Ministry
of Foreign Affairs. The others were Angola, Cameroon, Congo, the DRC, Ivory
Coast, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania and
Zambia. Notably, Kenya was among 21 countries that failed to vote at the UN General
Assembly in a resolution aimed at condemning Washington’s recognition of
Jerusalem as Israel’s capital. Consequently, the country was invited to a January 3 US reception for
United Nations member-states that did not vote in the resolution. Most
of the European Union ambassadors in Israel are reported to have boycotted. According to the Times of Israel, European foreign ministries on Monday slammed the US decision to
move its embassy to Jerusalem, saying "it violates
international law, is unwise and is likely to exacerbate tensions,
shortly before the embassy’s dedication ceremony began in Jerusalem". On Monday, international media, quoting the Gaza Health Ministry,
said at least 58 people were shot dead by Israeli forces and about
1,113 injured during demonstrations against the embassy relocation as
Palestinians prepared to mark 70 years since the Nakba, or
catastrophe — the day on which the state of Israel was established on
May 15, 1948. The Israel embassy in Kenya, however, put the number at 49. Deputy
Ambassador Michael Baror said they were sorry for the loss of
lives, and added that their problem is with the
regime, not Palestinians. He blamed Hamas for attempting to destabilise the region and promote terror. "These
are not people fighting for their rights. They are hurting their own
people. On Friday, some demonstrators entered and attacked the Garden of
Peace, the main crossing channel for food and fuel to the Palestinians.
Are these people honest?" Baror asked. He also said
Hamas wanted to mobilise about a million people to cross the border
and that clashes started when about 40,000 attempted
to cross over and attack villages in Jerusalem, resulting in the
bloodiest day in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict since a 2014 Gaza war. "They
had clear instructions to bring a weapon — a knife or a gun — and force
their way across the border, not use them unless there was need to
capture Israeli soldiers and residents,"  Baror said. This was corroborated on Tuesday by Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, who blamed Hamas for the
dozens of deaths in Gaza for “pushing people to the border. In that conflict zone, you’re
basically pushing people into circumstances where they are very likely
to be shot at.” He  spoke to Melbourne Radio 3AW on Tuesday. Some countries, among them South Africa and Turkey, have recalled their ambassadors to Israel over the violence. Ankara also recalled its envoy to the US for "consultations". In
a statement released on Monday, African Union Commission chairman
Moussa Faki "strongly condemned the disproportionate use of
force by the Israeli army, which resulted in the killing of over 50
Palestinian demonstrators, while many more were wounded". Faki said the relocation of the US embassy will only heighten tensions
in the region and complicate the search for a lasting solution to the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, as illustrated by Monday's clashes. In
December last year, the African Union retaliated their support for
Palestine in its quest for an independent and sovereign State
with East Jerusalem as its capital. Read: Israel closes Gaza border crossing damaged by Palestinians Also read: Gaza violence: Fresh protests expected after deadly clashes Related: Israeli forces kill two Palestinians near border as Gaza buries dead Click here for the latest political news 