National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale has hit back at COTU boss Francis Atwoli over claims he has sponsored amendments to the NSFF and NHIF Act. Duale in a statement shortly after the Labour Day Celebrations said Atwoli's remarks were evident that he is uninformed and ignorant regarding the bills. Atwoli had earlier castigated Duale of being behind the amendments. He said Dulae had instructed the CS Labour Ukur Yattani to remove Federation of Kenyan Employers and the COTU members in the NHIF board in which the two represents interests of workers and employers. "Instead of Duale focusing on how to remove sister Jacqueline Mugo and I from the board, he should direct his energy in crafting policies that will protect our youth who are languishing in the gulf in human trafficking through scrupulous work agencies," he said. Atwoli said though COTU supports president Uhuru Kenyatta's big four agenda, the said amendments and aim to remove them from the board was ill advised with an intention of looting workers money. The Bill seeks to give powers to the Cabinet Secretary for Labour to appoint five people outside government to the board of trustees. According to the proposed law, the five would be appointed courtesy of their knowledge and experience in matters relating to administration of pension funds, actuarial science, insurance, auditing, accounting or law Read:State seeks to kick out Atwoli and Mugo from NSSF board But Duale in his response said Atwoli has been invited before the parliamentary committee to explain why FKE and Cotu must continue to sit in the Boards of NHIF and NSSF. He said COTU, just like many other public and private organizations and individuals will be invited to discuss the Bills, openly and objectively. "We expect my friend, the Secretary General of COTU to make its case formally before the Committees, particularly why his organization must continue to sit in the Boards of NHIF and NSSF, and not any other bodies," Duale said. The Garissa Town MP further said COTU has been sitting in the Boards of these two Bodies since inception and the Auditor General, year in, year out, continues to raise serious audit queries, including the recent one of losses Billions in the Hazina Towers project under the NSSF. "However, more often than not, he chooses to give his views in public forums, such as labour days celebrations, as opposed to formal ones. I humbly encourage COTU to attend and/or formally present memorandum," he said. Duale insisted the Cabinet considered and approved a number of Bills for forwarding to Parliament for its Consideration, as a part of Jubilee’s Government’s Legislative agenda in the 12th Parliament. The Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2018, The Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No.2) of Bill, 2018, The Tax Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2018, the County Pension Bill, 2018 and the Health Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2018 are some of the bills that will support the BIG-4 Agenda. "The responsibility of the Leader of the Majority Party in the National Assembly is to have such Executive-originating Bills published in his name, considered by the House and its Committees in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the Standing Orders and passed into law," he added. Duale said having being published and read a first time, the Bills now stand referred to the various Committees of the House to undertake public participation in furtherance to the requirements of Article 118 of the Constitution. "Parliament will invite views of the public, including those of Mr. Atwoli in his official or private capacity. I am sure the Departmental Committee on Health and that of Labour will invite him, soonest, to give his views on the two Bills that may have caused him sleepless nights recently and air his concerns, formally," Duale said. Read:Atwoli threat to pull workers out of NSSF Also Read:Trade unions, ministry clash over amendments to labour laws Click here for the latest political news