The widow of a school principal killed on May 12 will be charged with his murder in two weeks. Gatunguru Secondary School principal Samuel Mbogo was killed at his home in Gakurwe village, Mathioya, Murang’a county, at night as his two daughters watched. Police arrested Mbogo’s widow Alice Mugechi in connection with the murder. Yesterday, Murang’a High Court Judge Kanyi Kimondo said Mugechi and her co-accused Samuel Gitu are mentally fit to stand trial. Justice Kimondo directed the court deputy registrar to appoint counsels for the two suspects. “This court has received information that the two accused persons murdered Mbogo but they need not say anything or take a plea until counsels are appointed for them,” he said. Justice Kimondo ordered the suspects to be detained at Murang’a prison. After Mbogo was killed, his body was dumped into his car near his home. During his burial on May 18, Mbogo’s 22-year-old daughter Margaret Wangari told mourners that if her mother was found guilty, she would never forgive her. “Money should not kill such a cheerful person. Why do women prioritise money?” Wangari asked. She said people should consider the effect of their actions on children.“Those people you kill also have families, mothers, fathers and siblings who care about them. Money is nothing when there is no peace.” Wangari said.  FIVE YEARS IN REMAND Her speech moved the crowd to tears as she said that her father’s death had left her and four other siblings alone as their mother remained in police custody. In the same court yesterday, a middle-aged man pleaded not guilty to a murder charge. He had been remanded since 2013. Peter Gitau denied pmurdering Bernard Mburu on April 25, 2013. He took the plea after his counsel Josphat Kimwere and the prosecution could not establish whether he took a plea after his arrest in 2013. The judge said valuable court time had been lost since the suspect was arrested. He asked the probation office to provide a report on his eligibility for bail. This is after Kimwere said the suspect is eligible for bail after being in remand for more than five years. The matter will be mentioned on June 5.