Taking into consideration recent major developments in the global arena, it is worthwhile for African leaders to pose two policy questions. One, is the time ripe for African leaders to review and leverage on the continent’s three largest strategic commercial partners — China, the European Union and the United States? Two, does the pathway to Africa’s long-awaited renaissance pass through Beijing? So far, the Africa-EU strategic partnership is progressing well. Two-way trade now exceeds $300 billion (Sh30.2 trillion). However, there are serious concerns. The EU is now a leaderless, shrinking and a retired power. Efforts by French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the two prominent EU leaders, to position the bloc as a formidable global leader have been scuttled by US President Donald Trump. Trump has rejected the 1945 multilateral order and refused to uphold the principle of pacta sunt servanda, without which international agreements would be reduced to worthless pieces of paper. The EU governments’ lack of guts and power to fight Trump shows there is a good chance that either the bloc will disintegrate, or nationalism and conflicts will reemerge. Across the Atlantic, there isn’t much hope for Africa. The US is a declining power, pursuing pre-WW1 nationalist policies. Their disruptive foreign policy, irresponsible unilateralism, and hate of Africans, multilateralism and international treaties are destroying the global order. Africa is not a priority for the US and Trump’s administration has no coherent policy on Africa. Two-way trade has fallen from a high of $100 billion (Sh10.1 trillion) in 2008 to $39 billion (Sh3.9 trillion) in 2017. China is now the real locomotive of the world economy. It is a modern rising power which respects and supports other countries, international law, multilateralism, international organisations and institutions. It has clear global policies, enshrined in Xi Jinping Thought – a strong message to everyone to share wealth. The China-Africa cooperation plans were announced by China during the Sixth Forum on China-Africa Cooperation Summit in Johannesburg in 2015. It was meant to promote industrialisation and agricultural modernisation in Africa, with a fund of $60 billion to implement them. Two-way trade has grown more than 40 times to exceed $200 billion (Sh20.2 trillion) in 20 years. China has financed more than 3,000 critical infrastructure projects in Africa. And six African countries are either members or prospective members of China-led Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank-Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, South Africa and Sudan. The seventh meeting of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation is scheduled for this September in Beijing, and there is need for African leaders to craft a clear policy towards China before then. There are three good reasons why. First, the African Union Agenda 2063 – a strategic framework for the socioeconomic transformation of Africa over a period of 50 years – has a correlation with Xi Jinping Thought. Both ideologies build on, and seek to accelerate the implementation of past and existing initiatives for growth and sustainable development. Secondly, the African Continental Free Trade Area complements the China Belt and Road Initiative. They focus on infrastructure development and connectivity toward facilitating trade and cooperation among countries. Finally, the Made in China 2025 plan, the first 10-year action plan designed to transform China from a manufacturing giant into a world manufacturing power, resonates with Agenda 2063, the first 10-year plan adopted by AU policy organs in June 2015. Xi Jinping Thought and Africa’s Agenda 2063 have a long-term view at the strategic level and follow a practical and specific route. If Africa can develop a clear policy on China, it will realise its goals, despite its many challenges. It will bring peace, prosperity and development, as well as help create jobs.