Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga has said she will set up a centre to help women, and rehabilitate boys and girls who abuse drugs. She said boys seem to have been forgotten, as so much focus has been on girls. Her office will establish the gender-based violence centre in Ndengelwa, Kanduyi. “We’ll have trained counsellors to help youths with drug abuse problems,” Wambillianga said on Thursday. She cited the recent murders of four people — a mother and father, a neighbour and the killer himself who was lynched in Siritanyi village, Bungoma South. Yusuf Siunda, 24, murdered his parents and a neighbour who came to their rescue. He ran into a church and threw himself on the altar. Villagers beat him to death. Wambilianga termed the killings inhuman and urged church leaders to pray for the village. She said Siunda might have been using drugs and such people must be helped before they commit crimes. “I ask parents to look out for children abusing drugs and bring them for counselling so we reduce such incidents,” Wambillianga said. Kanduyi DCI boss Bernard Chepkwony said Siunda was probably high on drugs because he had no disputes with his family. Wambilianga spoke to parents, teachers and students at Cardinal Otunga Girls in Kanduyi, when she distributed sanitary towels donated by the national government to Bungoma schools. She praised Gender Affairs CS Margaret Kobia and CAS Rachael Shebesh who have led the free sanitary towels project. Wambilianga said the sanitary towels will help students from Standard Five to Form Four across the county. Kobia earlier said the pads will address the reproductive health needs of adolescent girls to ensure they remain in school. School attendance will improve performance and transition to higher levels of learning, she said. Bungoma Education executive Betty Mayeku said girls, especially in primary schools, will be able to stay in schools during menstruation. Last month the Gender ministry said the government will distribute 140 million sanitary towels to 4.2 million school girls countrywide in the next four months. Gender PS Safina Kwekwe said the government will now provide free sanitary towels to students in all public schools. “This is a continuous exercise to ensure girls will no longer skip class during their monthly period,” the PS said.