Disgraced suspects arrived at the Milimani law courts under tight security yesterday afternoon to stand trial in the unending NYS scandal involving payment of millions of shillings to companies for goods that were not supplied. They arrived in dramatic style in more than 10 tinted police cars announced by sirens to begin yet another treacherous test for the fight against graft. Lilian Omollo, the PS for Public Service, Gender and Youth Affairs; Richard Ndubai, Director General of the NYS; and Sammy Michuki, former Ag Director General of the NYS, led the pack of suspects who turned the courtroom into a classroom. The seemingly composed trio and 17 others arrived at 12.15pm at the court precincts teeming with tens of curious members of the public and journalists yearning for a glimpse and a photo opportunity for the latest news makers. The suspects were escorted to the basement cells and minutes later to the Anti-Corruption Court. But it took more than two hours for the charges to be read out to them a process that went late into the night. This being the first high–profile corruption trial involving senior government officials, new Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, in a move aimed at ensuring the case is watertight, prepared 10 different files, each detailing separate claims of how the suspects conspired to rob the public. Read: NYS suspects risk Sh58m in fines,one year in jail if convicted Apprehensive that the suspects could interfere with evidence and prejudice the case, Haji opposed their release on bail. The Assets and Recovery Agency is in the process of repossessing the suspects' properties believed to have been purchased with NYS loot, among them high-end motor vehicles, malls, houses, and land. It is also believed that some of the suspects have stashed millions in different local and overseas bank accounts. The charges included abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an offence of economic crime, wilful failure to comply with applicable procedures while managing public funds and fraudulent acquisition of public property. Some of them faced up to eight counts but in different cases, and the DPP wanted each to be handled separately, while considering bail terms. The suspects denied all the charges allegedly committed on different dates between 2015 and 2017. A smiling Ann Amber Wanjiku Ngirita, the businesswoman whose firm was allegedly paid Sh59 million for supplying nothing to NYS, was in court with her one-and-half-year-old baby clutching to her, alongside her mother Lucy Wambui, sister Phyllis and brother Gicini. Businessman James Thuita, who last week lost a bid to block his arrest, is alleged to have been paid Sh115 million alongside his wife Wanjiku Ngugi, through their company Firstling Supplies Limited. VOUCHERS Senior NYS Deputy Director Nicholas Ochieng was charged with approving payment of fraudulent vouchers while Wellington Lubira is accused of approving illegal payments as holder of Authority to Incur Expenditure. Among other accused are Clement Murage, Peter Muchuhi, Stephen Ruringi, Muguongo and George Ouma. Another 13 suspects did not present themselves in court and will be charged at a later date. The suspects’ lawyers protested at the manner in which the cases were being handled, accusing the DPP’s office of being “strategic and malicious” by splitting the files. Read: List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal This was after Senior Assistant DPP Emily Kamau and Duncan Ondimu, who led the State counsel's team, told chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti that they intend to prosecute the files separately as they involved different suppliers. "Your Honour, these matters are different; the circumstances and facts are different and cannot be put in one charge sheet,” Ondimu argued. The defence lawyers protested, saying they were being ambushed and literally walking from blind alley to blind alley. CONSPIRACY The 33 suspects were all collectively charged with conspiracy to commit an economic crime and separately with other crimes such as fraud and abuse of office. Such crimes according to section 48 of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act attract fines amounting to double the sums involved. Each of them now risks a fine of as much as Sh58 million if convicted of committing economic crimes relating to the loss of Sh468 million from NYS. Each of the suspects also risks a one-year jail term ,or both the jail and a fine. Apart from the economic crimes, Youth and Gender PS Lillian Omollo also faced a different charge of abuse of office. The court was told that the PS used her office to improperly approve the payment of Sh28,766,700 million to Ameri Trade Limited for goods that were never delivered. According to the charge sheet, Omollo committed the offence between January 1, 2015, and March 21, 2017. She is charged with using her office to improperly and unlawfully authorise "payment to the head of accounting in the said ministry for goods not delivered," the prosecution told the court. Omollo denied the charges. Read : NYS Scandal: DPP receives 10 files as DCI nails first suspects The suspects were represented in court by a bevy of lawyers. They included Cliff Ombeta, Gachie Mwanza, Kihanga Mwangi, Getange Tom, Sam Ogutu and Miguos Ogamba. According to Section 48(1) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, each of the offences carries a fine not exceeding Sh1 million or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years, or to both. Additionally, the offences carry a mandatory fine equal to two times the amount of the amount of money lost. This means, Omollo and her co-accused face as much as Sh58,533,400 in fines. This includes NYS director general Richard Ndubai who also faced the same charges in the first count. Ndubai denied the third account of illegally paying Sh28.76 million to a private company. According to the Public Finance Management Act 2012, an accounting officer found guilty of having committed any act of indiscipline, will be punished by various measures including dismissal. The prosecution also sought a warrant of arrest for the suspects who failed to turn up in court and opted to send their lawyers instead. On Monday, the DPP urged suspects who had not been arrested to surrender. "The fact that they could send their lawyers to represent them in court means they knew they were supposed to be in court but choose not to come," the prosecutor said. Click here for the latest political news