Embattled EALA legislator Simon Mbugua now claims his life is in danger for
supporting Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Yesterday, Mbugua addressed a Press conference at which he blamed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho and another State House
aide for his arrest and prosecution last week. He claimed it was part of a plot to intimate and
silence supporters of the DP's bid. But Kibicho immediately dismissed the allegations against him, terming them as character
assassination. He  threatened to move to court today to sue the MP. "This is a serious character assassination that I cannot take lying
down. I am moving to court because that is where people produce evidence,"
he said. Read: Simon Mbugua, two others arrested over attack on NCBDA ex-chair Timothy Muriuki It was the second time the duo was being directly linked to the 2022
succession politics. Last month, Governor Sonko also made similar claims during a
radio interview. Mbugua was arrested alongside two others last week and charged with robbery
with violence following an attack on Nairobi businessman Timothy Muriuki by
goons at a city hotel. The three were released on a Sh200,000 cash bail each. The attackers are, however, yet to be arrested two weeks later, despite the
police placing a Sh500,000 bounty on each of the five goons. “I would like to clarify that the ambiguous robbery with violence charges
preferred against me and two others are petty, frivolous, comical and
politically instigated,” he said. Mbugua addressed journalists at Shell petrol station next to Panafric hotel
after he and journalists were denied access to the hotel — despite having booked
and paid Sh30,000 for the venue. “The management has told me that they were told by the OCS and OCPD of the
Central Police station not to allow me or the hotel would be closed,” Mbugua
said. The Star could not however independently confirm Mbugua's claims of being
blocked as we could not reach the hotel's management. Tens of policemen in uniform and plain clothes hovered around the hotel and petrol
station. They surrounded him as he was addressing the press. Mbugua claimed that he was being trailed by police and had to use four
different vehicles, including a taxi, to get to the venue. Read: Mbugua, co-accused in Muriuki attack case freed on Sh200,000 bail Also read: Simon Mbugua barred from press briefing despite booking Sh30,000 venue PUTIN The former MP for Kamukunhi claimed that the two senior government officials
are leading a team that calls itself 'Putin' to intimate and silence those
supporting DP Ruto's 2022 bid. The team, he said, is behind the clamour to amend the Constitution to change
the structure of the executive and short change the Ruto. “I believe the arrest was politically instigated and it revolved around
Nairobi politics and 2022 succession,” he said. Opposition leader Raila Odinga who signed a truce with President Uhuru
Kenyatta on March 9 has proposed a referendum to change the country's
governance structure ahead of the 2022 elections. But Ruto, who has publicly declared his interest in the country's top seat,
and his allies have vehemently opposed it, saying it is a scheme to derail his succession
plan. "Even now, if you look at the DP keenly, he is not a happy man. And I
want to tell [ODM leader] Raila [Odinga] that these people are misusing you.
Soon they will damp you and you will go home,” he added. Mbugua claimed Kibicho was particularly trailing him because of his
closeness with Nairobi governor Mike Sonko, adding that "no amount of
intimidation" by the PS will force him to abandon Sonko. “Kibicho is not larger than Kenya. He might be holding the powerful security
docket for now but he should know that there were many appointees in that
position before.  He should stop fighting leaders who are supporting the
DP's 2022 presidential bid,” he said. Meanwhile, Nairobi MCAs have warned government officials against undermining
Governor Sonko and his administration and asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to
intervene. “What we saw happening in public was the highest form of disrespect and
discrimination. It is unacceptable and it is something that should not have
happened because the governor was overwhelmingly elected by the people and
deserved that respect and recognition,” Majority leader Abdi Guyo said. The legislators, drawn from the Jubilee party were reacting to the protocol
hitch that occurred during the National Tree Planting Day at Moi Forces
Academy, Kamukunji, on Saturday. During the event, Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko skipped Sonko
and welcomed Deputy President William Ruto, forcing the governor to stand up
and grab the microphone to address the gathering. Sonko lashed at the minister
and accused his opponents of trying to undermine him. The Jubilee leaders claimed there is a scheme by some officials in the
national government to frustrate the governor. Click here for the latest political news