Heavy rainfall is expected to continue pounding various parts of the country from Monday night with a likelihood of flooding in many areas. The Kenya Metrological Department warned people living along Langata road, Forest Road, South B, Kilimani and Syokimau to brace for flash floods as heavy rainfall of more than 50mm is expected in the next 24 hours. The department said the Coastal strip covering Lamu, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Tana-River counties will also receive excessive rains. "On Tuesday, heavy rainfall of more than 50mm in 24 hours is expected offshore and in all counties along the Coastal strip. On Wednesday, moderate rainfall of more than 30mm in 24 hours is expected in the South Coast region,” Peter Ambenje, acting Director of Kenya Meteorological Department said in a statement. Read: Flooding risk rises as heavy rains predicted this weekend “The flooding situation may worsen in some parts due to the fact that a lot of water has been accumulating on the ground since last week,” he said. "There is also a possibility of landslides occurring in areas where the soils have become saturated with rain and flood waters," the Met department said in a tweet. The alert adds to the growing woes of many Kenyans who have had to contend with cold nights over the past few weeks after their homes were washed away by floods. Many of the families in the most affected counties of Tana River, Kilifi, Kwale, Machakos, Garissa and Nairobi have sought refuge in schools and churches as the rains show no signs of slowing down. Ambenje urged residents in the areas where the alert has been issued to take precaution to prevent loss of life. Floods have killed dozens of Kenyans and displaced thousands across the country since the rains kicked off early in the year. “People should avoid driving, wading or walking through any fast-moving waters. The heavy rains and strong winds offshore may result in storm surge along the coast, hence fishermen and all in the Marine industry should be on high alert,” Ambenje said. Also Read: Heavy rains return in April, Met warns of more flooding  Click here for the latest political news