More than half of the Sh437 million CCTV cameras installed in Nairobi are non-functional, a report by a county assembly committee shows. The Public Accounts Committee's report on the 2015-16 Audit General's
report states 26 out of the 42 cameras are not working. Others lack
“requisite equipment to enable communication between control centre and
several surveillance points,” it states. “It has not been clarified whether the cameras are now capable of
detecting motor vehicle number plates. In the circumstances, the
surveillance systems and security installations may still not be relied
up on to enhance the security of the county's residents.” The report was tabled by PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo two weeks ago. Installation of the integrated urban surveillance system began in September 2012. The multimillion-shilling project was initiated by the then Ministry
of Nairobi Metropolitan in 2012 as part of the government's plan to fight crime. The tender was awarded to M/S Nanjing
Les Information Technology Limited. Cameras are installed on major roads, including
Kenyatta Avenue, Uhuru Highway, Moi Avenue, Murang'a Road and Tom Mboya
Street. The report says City Hall has no control over the system as it is being operated by the implementing contractor. The Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing and Urban
Development, under which the project now falls, is yet to hand it over
to the county government, contrary to the initial agreement. “The project was a noble initiative that would have aided the county
government in controlling traffic, however, as observed by the Auditor
General, the project has been a total failure, despite a colossal sum of
public money having been spent,” the report reads. In June 2016, City Hall wrote to the ministry complaining about the
lack of maintenance of the project by the contractor. It asked the
ministry to fast track the project's completion. The county held a meeting with ministry officials in August 2016 to discuss the completion and handing over of the project. The county government's complaints followed an increase in crime in
the city centre. In February 2015, the then Kabete MP George Muchai was
shot dead at the Kenyatta Avenue-Uhuru Highway roundabout. His two bodyguards and driver were also killed in the early morning
ambush. Though arrests were made and the trial is ongoing, the county
and national governments were put on the spot after the cameras failed
to show the registration details of the vehicles used by the assailants.