The Energy Regulatory Commission has started a crackdown on building owners who are yet to mount solar water heaters on their properties. The deadline for installing the heaters lapsed on November 25 last year, having been extended after property developers cried foul over a short notice. Landlords had been asked to install water heaters on commercial and residential buildings whose occupants use more than 100 litres of hot water a day. The compliance deadline for the Energy (Solar Water Heating) Regulations 2012 lapsed on May 25, 2017 before it was extended for another six months. "The commission is currently carrying out surveillance visits on buildings under construction and random spot checks on premises to ensure compliance with the regulations," ERC said in a statement. ERC says there will be no further extension of the deadline for compliance with the set law. The regulator has asked occupants of premises under review to verify the authenticity of ERC officials carrying out compliance inspection on buildings. "The public can send the text message "staff <space> ID no. of the person inspecting" to 0707667623....report any incidences on our hotline number 0708444000 or report to the police," ERC added. Also read: ERC decries low uptake of solar heating systems Five years ago, Kenya came up with the Energy (Solar Water Heating) Regulations to encourage the use of renewable sources of energy and ease the pressure on the national grid. However, the enforcement of the law has been marred with corruption cases where unscrupulous individuals posing as ERC officials inspect buildings and extort money from landlords in return. Read: House owners slow in complying with solar water heating regulations The solar water heating rules prohibit Kenya Power from approving electricity connections to premises without panels. The guidelines target residential premises, educational institutions, health institutions, eateries and laundromats. Click here for the latest political news  