There are fears of famine in Tana River and Kilifi after floods destroyed thousands of acres of crops in the counties. Kenya Red Cross Society regional coordinator Hassan Musa said on Sunday more than 86,000 people have been left homeless and property destroyed In Tana River, more than 64,000 people have been displaced by floods while 22,000 have no shelter in Kilifi, he said. Musa said flood victims need urgent humanitarian assistance for three months. He spoke during an interview after touring Hewani in Tana Delta where he supplied    non-food items to more 4,000 people forced out of their homes. “Residents were preparing to harvest their crops, but floodwaters swept away their produce. This is a big blow since the people had not recovered from drought,” Musa said. Lack of cars and boats He urged the national government, the counties and other humanitarian organisations to help the displaced people before the situation gets out of hand. “The people in need of assistance keeps increasing. Transport has been disrupted. We need cars and boats to transport relief aid. It is expensive,’’ Musa said. At Hewani, residents from seven villages had to travel for long distances to get help from the Kenya Red Cross and the county government. Farms submerged Displaced victims who spoke to the Star said the relief food from the county government was little and they have to look for places to buy food. Wema resident Anastasia Tabala said they were being given 3kgs of rice and 1kg of beans, which was not enough. From Idsowe Bridge to Hewani, many farms are flooded. Hundreds of mango trees are surrounded by floodwaters. Farmers are staring at losses. Red Cross officials said they are trying their best to distribute       non-food items such as tents, blankets and soaps to the displaced people. In Kilifi, the scenario is equally bleak. Farms have been submerged and residents are in need of help. The county government and humanitarian organisations are helping the displaced people. Much more needs to be done.