Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter on Saturday called for
demarcation of areas where indigenous and exotic trees should be planted. The CS regretted that environmentalists are concentrating
so much on replacing Kenya's forests with exotic cover and paying little
attention to indigenous cover. Speaking at Joubert area in Londiani sub-county, Kericho
county, Keter told KFS environmentalists to pay much attention in replacing
destroyed indigenous trees. "Let’s remember always to replant indigenous and exotic
trees without paying so much
attention to exotic trees used for extraction of timber and
electric poles," Keter said. He said the Energy ministry needs at least 800,000 eucalyptus poles for electricity infrastructure but only 230,000 are readily available. Keter expressed confidence the deficit will be available in
the shortest time possible because it’s quick business for eucalyptus farmers. "As you plant eucalyptus trees for electric poles, remember
also to plant indigenous ones in your farms for sustainability of our changing climate." Keter decried the wanton destruction of trees by both charcoal
burners and timber merchants saying the lot does very
little to replant trees. He said Kenya’s changing climate cannot be corrected unless citizens change their tree planting behaviour. Keter was the chief guest during the national tree planting
day in Kericho. He was accompanied by PSs Betty Maina, Alfred Cheruiyoit, Kericho county commissioner
Muktar Abdi, and Kericho deputy governor Susan Kikwai. Keter told local environmentalists to borrow ideas from
developed countries where sound environmental management has helped them
sustain their environment for hundreds of years. "Go to Finlands, The Netherlands, Germany and other developed
nations for benchmarking and bring the findings back to Kenya," Keter said. Kericho county KFS ecosystem conservator boss Samuel Kahunyo
led the top government officials and school children in planting more than
20,000 indigenous and exotic trees. Read: DP Ruto's forest task force did shoddy job, Elgeyo leaders say Also read: Forests task force wants KFS board out, lifestyle audit on senior officials Click here for the latest political news