There is no doubt as to
the role banks under Central Bank of Kenya regulation and supervision
play in this theft, they are central to the movement of money from NYS to
fictitious beneficiaries or suppliers. Taking into consideration all the strict
regulations and rules that CBK, as the regulator, has put in place on financial
transactions, we demand to know the actions CBK has taken
against the affected banks. We are aware there is no way a transaction of,
at least, one million shillings can be carried out by any bank, or its officials, either
by withdrawal over the counter, or via RTGS, without the approval and clearance
by the CBK. We are aware that CBK carries out compliance audits on
all commercial banks and is therefore obligated to inform the public why the said
commercial banks are still in operation, especially relating to previous
scandals at NYS. It is in the public interest that CBK comes out clearly and
explains why no action was taken on the commercial banks that participated in
cashing out the huge sums of money in the NYS scandal. We are also aware directors of the commercial banks that are central to these transactions
owe the public a duty of care. None of these directors has come out to publicly
expose the theft, likewise, the CBK also owes the public that duty of care. We demand to know the actions CBK is taking or has taken against those
directors and their respective banks. NYS scandal could have been avoided and
that is why we strongly believe that had commercial banks and CBK complied with
the laid down procedures and applicable laws, the fraudulent NYS transactions could
not have been complete and the people of Kenya could not have lost such huge
amounts of money to fictitious suppliers. Should CBK fail to explain itself on
these issues, Thirdway Alliance Kenya will have no choice but to seek legal intervention
as well as seek the resignation of Patrick Njoroge as the Governor of CBK for
failure to seek accountability from the banks as well as failure on the part of
Njoroge to account for the actions he ought to have taken as the regulator. Thirdway Alliance Kenya has written to CBK governor Click here for
the latest political news