The father of American actress
Meghan Markle said on Tuesday he could not attend his daughter's
wedding to Britain's Prince Harry on Saturday because he needed
a heart procedure. Thomas Markle, who lives in Mexico, was quoted as telling
Los Angeles-based celebrity website TMZ.com that he was
scheduled to undergo a heart repair and blockage clearance
procedure early on Wednesday morning. Markle, 73, was due to walk his daughter down the aisle in
front of 600 guests including all the senior British royals and
a smattering of celebrities. Markle threw the wedding plans into confusion earlier this
week when he said he would not attend the May 19 nuptials
because he did not want to embarrass his daughter or the royal
family after reports he had staged pictures with a paparazzi
photographer for a fee. He also said he had been hospitalised
after suffering a heart attack a week ago. Harry, 33, Queen Elizabeth's grandson and the sixth-in-line
to the British throne, and Markle, 36, will marry on Saturday at
St George's Chapel in Windsor Castle. On Tuesday, Markle told TMZ that he hated "the idea of
missing one of the greatest moments in history and walking my
daughter down the aisle." But he later said doctors had scheduled surgery on Wednesday
morning. "They (doctors) will go in and clear blockage, repair
damage and put a stent where it is needed," Markle told the
website. Kensington Palace, Harry's office, could not immediately be
reached for comment on Tuesday. But in a statement issued on Monday it said called Thomas
Markle's comments "a deeply personal moment for Ms Markle." "She and Prince Harry ask again for understanding and
respect to be extended to Mr Markle in this difficult
situation," Kensington Palace said. The bride-to-be's parents are divorced and while Harry has
been pictured with her mother Doria Ragland, 61, there had been
speculation about how Thomas Markle, a former lighting director
for TV soaps and sitcoms, would feature. However, Harry's communications secretary told reporters
last week he would have an important role and would give away
his daughter on the couple's big day. He had also been expected
to meet the queen, her husband and the other senior members of
the Windsor family this week. Thousands of journalists from across the world are
descending on the genteel town of Windsor for the wedding, and
Thomas Markle told TMZ earlier this week that the media
attention had taken its toll. He said he had been offered up to
$100,000 for interviews and been ambushed by paparazzi whose
snaps had shown him buying beer and looking dishevelled. TMZ said he had agreed to the staged pictures, which showed
him looking at images of the couple on a computer and being
sized up for a suit, because he hoped they would improve his
image. Prince Harry and his elder brother Prince William have both
made clear in the past their dislike of the press, fuelled by
the death of their mother Princess Diana in a Paris car crash in
1997 as her limousine sped away from chasing paparazzi. Kensington Palace has limited press access to the ceremony
itself and strictly controlled the release of details about the
wedding to the media. If her father does not come, British newspapers suggested
that Markle's mother, with whom she is spending the night before
the ceremony at a nearby luxury hotel, would walk her daughter
down the aisle. Click here for the latest political news 