Former US President Barack Obama has entered into a films production deal with Netflix, the New York Times reported on Monday. Obama and the former first lady Michelle Obama, in the multi-year deal, will produce television shows and films for the streaming service. The couple has created "Higher Ground Productions" - a company to produce content for Netflix. NYT said the former president has told associates that he does not intend to use the new platform to wage a public campaign against President Donald Trump. "He has told his associates that it is not about fighting his successor in the Oval Office, or to fight against conservative media outlets like Fox News." Netflix, in a press release, said the Obamas will produce "scripted series, unscripted series, docu-series, documentaries and features". The films will highlight issues and themes the president pursued during his eight years in office. "One of the simple joys of our time in public service was getting to meet so many fascinating people from all walks of life," Obama said in a statement. "We'll help them share their experiences with a wider audience...That’s why Michelle and I are so excited to partner with Netflix." The former first family said: "We hope to cultivate and curate the talented, inspiring, creative voices who are able to promote greater empathy and understanding between peoples, and help them share their stories with the entire world." The production plan is envisioned will give Obama an international television platform to reach millions of people in the United States and
internationally. Obama has remained largely quiet since he left office in January 2017. Netflix did not disclose financial details of the arrangement. Similar deals between streaming services and high-profile celebrities have been worth many tens of millions of dollars over several years. Ted Sarandos, the chief content officer for Netflix, was quoted by NYT saying that the deal will benefit the service’s audience. "Barack and Michelle Obama are among the world’s most respected and highly-recognised public figures." They are uniquely positioned to discover and highlight stories of people who make a difference in their communities and strive to change the world for the better, he said. Click here for the latest political news