The Machakos county assembly has passed a supplementary budget of Sh2.47 billion to finance development projects for the next three months. The lion’s share will be spent on roads, water supply and healthcare. Deputy Majority leader Justus Muasya said Sh160 million has been set aside for disaster management. “We have agreed to pass the budget to enable Governor Alfred Mutua to undertake various projects. The ball is now in his court as the assembly has done its part,” the Kivaa MCA said. Some of the key projects targeted include the ward bursary fund (Sh80 million), water and agriculture (Sh400 million), health services (Sh272 million) and Sh378 million for roads. The MCAs revisited the appointment of county executives and chief officers, which triggered a stand-off between them and the governor. “We urge Mutua to make the appointments as soon as practicable, failing which the main annual budget for 2018-19 will not be approved,” Muasya said. Muthetheni MCA Jeremiah Munguti told the governor to ensure county workers whose contracts have not been renewed are not sacked. “Essential services will be at stake if the hundreds of workers contracts are not renewed,” said Munguti, who is also the Labour committee chairman. Meanwhile, the county government on Thursday started a roads programme to repair sections ruined by the ongoing rains. Mutua met the county engineering team and was briefed about a rapid resource plan and work schedule. Mutua said 54 roads in the 40 wards have been identified for repair. They will be graded and rehabilitated. Contracts for the job have been handed out. “The roads were identified through a public participatory process which involved the public and their respective MCAs,” Mutua said. The project will include fixing culverts, drifts, spot improvement and murraming. Contractors have been awarded tenders worth Sh280 million. A further Sh200 million will facilitate complementary works supervised by the county engineers. “The government has released to each of the eight subcounties graders, tipper, excavators, dozers, shovels and rollers to improve feeder roads in the wards,” the governor said.