The High Court has declined to block the arrest of a senior government official and a director of a company linked to the Sh9 billion National Youth Service (NYS) scandal. Bernard Masiga - a senior Finance officer at the Ministry of Youth and Gender Affairs, and James Thuita - a director at Firstling Suppliers, had approached the High Court seeking for an anticipatory bail to evade arrest and possible prosecution. However, Justice Ngenye Macharia of the Criminal Division at Milimani law court on Friday said that their application lacked merit. "I cannot hesitate to find that this application is unmerited. It does not meet the threshold required for grant of anticipatory bail. The same is dismissed with orders as to no cost," the judge said. Read: How 23 NYS scandal suspects walked free The judge said for an anticipatory bail to be granted, certain conditions must be met, including proving a breach of their fundamental rights and freedom. "The applicants have clearly failed to show an imminent breach of their fundamental rights and freedoms the case before the court has been tendered based purely on mere apprehensions and unfounded rumours." The two separately filed the application saying they were apprehensive of being prosecuted in the public domain. They cited the manner in which the NYS scandal is being reported in the media. Thuita had argued that the matter been reported in the media are nothing mere rumours. He told the court that he is an approved supplier and has been doing lawful businesses with NYS for a long time. The applicant said that his name was only being dragged to the mess, further subjecting him to mental and psychological anguish and torture. Read: CBK probes 6 banks over NYS payments He had also accused the media of 'sensationalising the NYS issue' to his detriment but the judge said his arguments were not proof of infringement of his rights. Further, Justice Macharia said the apprehension of his rights being infringed if arrested must be based on tangible grounds and not merely rumours and unsubstantiated claims. The judge said claims that the NYS scandal is been sensationalised cannot be a ground for the court to intervene because it does not imply news as captured in the media does not represent all facts on the ground. She said the two should be calm until such a time when the DPP, DCI and Inspector General of Police will require then to record statements or called to assist in the investigations. "To that extent, there is nothing for which the court can come to their protection," the judge said. Click here for the latest political news