Most parts of the country will get rains this week and early next week, the meteorological department has said. The forecast dims hopes that the rains would end this month across the country. This week the rains will be heaviest within the Lake Victoria Basin, the Rift Valley highlands, the Coast and Central Kenya including Nairobi. Head of meteorological department Peter Ambenje said Northern Kenya and southeast lowlands like Kitui are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on a few days. “Flooding is likely to continue over low-lying and poorly drained areas that have already been receiving heavy rainfall,” Ambenje said in the seven-day forecast ending Monday next week. “There is also a possibility of land-slides occurring in areas where the soils have become saturated with rain and flood waters,” he added. At least 160 people have died in the last two months and another 260,0000 displaced as raging floods wreak havoc across the country. The deaths includes the 47 people who died in the Patel Dam tragedy in Nakuru last week. The Ministry of Devolution, the United Nations office in Nairobi and the Red Cross say currently 10 counties are the worst affected. “We are doing our very best to help all Kenyans affected by the heavy rains,” Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa told the Star last week. Ironically, the counties worst hit are those previously ravaged by drought. Major roads, learning institutions, medical facilities and community water systems have been rendered unusable. The catastrophe has raised the risk of the outbreak of diseases such as cholera, as latrines have collapsed or been flooded. Tana River is the worst hit with more than 70 per cent of the expansive county submerged. The Ministry of Devolution, county governments, Kenya Defence Forces and the Red Cross are still grappling with surging floodwaters that swept away houses, livestock and household property. More than 100,000 people have been left homeless. Other hard-hit areas are Kilifi, Garissa, Wajir, Kisumu, Mandera, Isiolo, Turkana, Samburu, Baringo and Kajiado. Residents say they have never experienced such rain for years. Essential commodities and services such as food, water and medicine have become luxuries to the residents of these marginalised areas. In the one month forecast issued three weeks ago, the weatherman had raised the possibility that rains would end this month in most parts of the country. Northern and southeastern Kenya were expected to go dry last week. Central Kenya and southern parts of central Rift Valley were expected to go dry in the third to fourth week of May. This region consists of Nairobi, Nyandarua, Embu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Meru and Tharaka Nithi counties. Others are Narok, Kajiado and Magadi counties. “May marks the cessation of the long rains for the north western, northeastern and southeastern parts of the country," Ambenje said.