Employment terms for Kenya Power top management have been changed to three year performance contracts subject to annual appraisals. The staff are employed in two categories with the senior management enjoying permanent and pensionable terms while those who are field based and are on short term contracts. Chairman Mahboub Maalim said the new structure will run until 2023 then it will be reviewed. The restructuring process has led to creation of five directorates including Energy Supply Management, Commercial, Operations, Corporate Services and Finance. The heads of the directorates will report directly to the managing director and CEO. “As a board we have approved that an individual will have three years term limit subject to performance appraisal that will be carried out every year. This is to make the employees much more involved and responsive in their specific sectors,” Maalim said. Notably,the Commercial directorate will help the Company focus on its customers who are categorised in three main segments: large power users, small commercial users, and domestic and emerging users. The reorganisation has also led to reduction in the number of administrative regions from ten to seven to effectively manage operations and costs as well as optimise resources. Maalim said the new corporate structure will support the Feeder Based Business Units model that will ensure that the customer services are delivered effectively and efficiently to customers along the feeder lines. On Saturday, the power distributors announced dismissing atleast 18 employees who were found to have breached their employment contracts. The 18 are said to have illegally assisted over 350 Labour and Transport contractors who never met the criteria of getting tenders. Kenya Power Chief executive Ken Tarus is said to have called for investigations on the tenders which found 19 employees culpable of engaging in the illegalities. Only one of the 19 was found not guilty. The changes come amidst public outcry on inflated bills, poor customer service,and blackouts. Click here for the latest political news