Israel closed a main border
crossing with the Gaza Strip and destroyed a Hamas militant
tunnel on Saturday, a day after renewed violence between
Palestinian protesters and Israeli forces on the edge of the
coastal enclave. Dozens of Palestinian demonstrators had broken into the Gaza
side of the Kerem Shalom terminal, the main conduit for goods in
and out of the territory, on Friday. They set alight a pipeline
that delivers gas from Israel, torched a conveyor belt and
damaged a fuel pipe. "The crossing will remain closed until the damage caused by
the riots are repaired and will reopen in accordance with a
situation assessment," the Israeli military said. It will be opened for humanitarian cases only in the
meantime, it said. Later on Saturday, Israeli war planes destroyed an
underground attack tunnel near the border that was being built
by Hamas, the Islamist group that controls Gaza, to help
militants cross into Israel, the military said. The tunnel had reached just a few meters from the border,
adjacent to Israeli communities, the military said. "It was approximately one kilometer long. It was dug over a
number of months and we have been following it for a number of
weeks," spokesman Lt. Col. Jonathan Conricus said. Israel says it has destroyed several cross-border militant
tunnels in recent months. Palestinian gunmen used tunnels to
blindside Israeli forces during the 2014 Gaza war. EMBASSY TO OPEN More than two million people are packed into the narrow Gaza
Strip, where poverty and unemployment rates are high. Kerem
Shalom is one of three main Gaza border crossings with Israel
and Egypt, but it is where most goods pass through daily. The incursion into Kerem Shalom took place during a weekly
mass protest in which thousands of Palestinians gathered along
the Israel-Gaza border. Palestinian health officials said a man was killed by
Israeli fire on Friday and that a 15-year-old boy who was shot
died from his wounds on Saturday. The Israeli military said the
crowd had grown violent and that troops were defending the
border. More than 40 Palestinians have been killed during six weeks
of protests and tens of thousands of Gazans are expected at
tented border encampments in the coming days. It was unclear to some Gaza residents why the demonstrators
chose to attack the terminal. "I cannot find one good reason for what happened, what is
the wisdom behind this?" said one gas station owner, who asked
not to be identified. "Some petrol stations have storage for maybe a day or two,
so the crisis will begin by Monday or Tuesday should the
crossing remained closed," he said. The Palestinian National Committee said it was surprised by
the "non-deliberate and unfortunate incident" at Kerem Shalom
and called on Palestinians to preserve the crossings. Gaza is run by Hamas, which Israel and the West designate a
terrorist organization. Citing security concerns, Israel
maintains tight control over its land and sea borders. Egypt
also restricts movement in and out of Gaza. The border protests are building to a climax on May 15, the
day Palestinians call the "Nakba" or "Catastrophe", marking the
displacement of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in the
conflict surrounding the creation of Israel in 1948. They take place at a time of growing frustration over the
prospects for an independent Palestinian state. Peace talks
between Israel and the Palestinians have been stalled for
several years and Israeli settlements in the occupied
territories have expanded. US President Donald Trump's decision last year to
recognise disputed Jerusalem as Israel's capital and move the
US Embassy there further fuelled Palestinian anger. The new
embassy is due to open on Monday. Click here for the latest political news