The manager of Olive Restaurant in Nairobi has apologised for 'shaming' a woman who did not cover herself while breastfeeding her child. Moses Wambua issued the apology on Tuesday after a group of women marched to the restaurant in protest. The establishment remained closed but there were people inside as the women demonstrated outside. Wambua said they "don't care" about women covering up while breastfeeding as even they went through this process. "They can even change their babies in the boss' office. We don't care. We are very sorry if this [the shaming] happened ... we did not know ... we learned about it on social media," he said. "We love women ... many of our customers are women ... we must welcome women ... this is business ... we want money ..."  A woman demonstrates outside Parliament in a demand for public space for breastfeeding mothers, May 15, 2018. /JOSEPH NDUNDA The manager said they did not have CCTV footage to back the complainant's claims. He said those who were aggrieved should have reported the matter to them for proper solutions. Wambua claimed nobody stepped forward to complain about the matter so they were not sure it happened. "We took a while to respond because we were not sure this happened but we are very sorry if it did," he told shouting women. Wambua, however, claimed there were ulterior motives as there had never been such a case. "There is somebody behind these claims but we will handle the situation," he said, adding investigations were on.  Women demonstrate outside Olive Restaurant in Nairobi in a demand for public space for breastfeeding mothers, May 15, 2018. /SUSAN MUHINDI Regarding providing facilities for nursing mothers, he acknowledged their importance and said "we will provide them very soon'. The protesters shouted that they had accepted the apology and then marched to Parliament to submit a petition on the matter. The woman, 26, who identified herself only as Betty Kim, was so upset that she posted about the May 7 incident at Olive Restaurant on a Facebook group. The post quickly went viral, with mothers leaping to her defence. Kim had hoped that the eatery's manager would apologise. More on incident: Demo on March 15 after Nairobi restaurant 'shames' breastfeeding mum Click here for the latest political news