Eighteen individuals representing suppliers and officials from the National Youth Service recorded police statements yesterday over the loss of Sh9 billion.The individuals are among 40 people who have been summoned by DCI George Kinoti to record statements over questionable tendering and payments at the service.Another 12 people are expected to appear before investigators by the end of today. Police have given themselves two days to question all 40 people and companies. Read: PS denies Sh10bn lost in NYS scandalThis is the second NYS scandal to come to light since the Sh1.9 billion fraud in 2015 that led to the resignation of Devolution CS Anne Waiguru. She is now Kirinyaga governor.Yesterday, Kinoti said police had opened a general inquiry. In such an inquiry police receive a lot of information from the public before they establish the strongest leads to follow.An officer familiar with the investigations said NYS staff were required to submit copies of payment vouchers, delivery notes and all documents relating to procurement.Suppliers were required to present documents on payment and proof they supplied goods or services for which they received payments.Among those who appeared before DCI investigators yesterday were NYS head of supply chain Stephen Mwendwa and his deputy Eliud Koome. Read: NYS Scandal: PS Lillian Omollo, NYS Director Richard Ndubai step asideThe DCI want to question Firstling Supplies Limited and Flagstone Merchants, among others. They are said to have been paid Sh1.4 billion and Sh1.04 billion, respectively. Other companies that received cash from the NYS include Excella Supplies Services Company Limited, Techbiz Limited, Era Two Thousands Limited, First Edge Limited, Sakata Limited and Fastlane Freight Forwarders Limited.NYS Director General Richard Ndubai and Public Service PS Lilian Omollo have stepped aside for three month to allow for probe. It has emerged some of the companies that received cash in the latest scandal were also named in the earlier scam.  The PS has since disputed claims by NIS chief Philip Kameru of a scandal and that 13 vouchers amounting to Sh8 billion were paid to “ghost” companies for non-existent supplies to the NYS. More: Youth affairs ministry denies paying Sh8 billion to ghost NYS suppliers Click here for the latest political news