The first litre of refined oil will be transported through the new Sh48 billion pipeline on July 1. Kenya Pipeline Company yesterday said it completed mainline mechanical and electrical works in March. The pipeline will pump one million litres per hour from Mombasa to Nairobi on July 1. The 20-inch diameter Mombasa to Nairobi pipeline (Line Five) is expected to pump up to 2.6 million litres of petroleum products per hour, meeting the demand for petroleum products for Kenya and the region until the year 2044. FOUR PUMP STATIONS KPC managing director Joe Sang said, “We employed modern world class engineering technology that will ease the flow of petroleum products in the new pipeline.” He spoke on the sidelines of the inaugural Morendat Institute of Oils and Gas Conference in Nairobi. “We have installed four new pump stations in Changamwe, Maungu, Mtito Andei and Sultan Hamud and two booster pumps in Kipevu to increase our supply flow,” Sang said. SAFETY The pipeline has firefighting systems in the new stations and energy efficient equipment which will improve fuel supply logistics. This is expected to cause a price reduction. “With a one million litres-per-hour flow rate, the new line will remove 700 trucks that transport fuel products from the road daily at maximum utilisation. It will enhance safety as pipeline transportation of fuel is the safest and most cost effective way of transporting petroleum products the world over,” Sang said. KPC is in the process of replacing the existing Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline that has been in operation for 40 years. Its flow rate is about 750,000 litres per hour. It, therefore, cannot meet the d national and regional demand for fuel. VISION 2030 Sang said KPC is rehabilitating the damaged 100km on the old pipeline to ensure they both operate concurrently to push supply to 1.7 million litres per hour. The 450km pipeline is the country’s second largest infrastructural undertaking after the standard gauge railway. It is anchored in the country’s Vision 2030 as a key driver of affordable energy to fuel the economy. Click here for the latest political news