City Hall has claimed ownership of the 13.5 acres in Ruaraka being probed by the Senate over a Sh3.2 billion compensation package to a Nairobi businessman. The land contains Drive Inn Primary School and Ruaraka Secondary School. Lands executive Charles Kerich on Thursday told the Parliamentary Land Committee the disputed property is public land and it is not owned by businessman Francis Mburu. Mburu has already received Sh1.5 billion from the National Land Commission, on behalf of the Ministry of Education. Earlier this week, the Education ministry denied writing to the National Land Commission to initiate compulsory acquisition of the land. Education PS Belio Kipsang told the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee probing the matter that the NLC chaired by Muhammad Swazuri initiated the process by writing to the ministry in 2016 regarding the landowners’ complaints. Kipsang told the committee chaired by Senator Moses Kajwang of Homa Bay that Swazuri informed them landowners wanted to be compensated for the two public schools occupying their land. “We got the complaint from NLC in September 13, 2016. The request for the payment of Sh3.2 billion compensation was initiated by NLC after finding that it was private land,” Kipsang said. Kipsang’s position contradicted that of Swazuri who told the same committee last month that NLC commenced the acquisition process following a directive by former Education CS Fred Matiang’i in March 17, 2017. Kipsang confirmed the exchange of letters with NLC but insisted that the ministry’s concern was for all public schools to have title deeds. On Thursday, the parliamentary team ordered Kerich and Urban Planning chief officer Justus Kathenge to table documents related to the land before 5pm on Thursday. Kathenge, who appeared alongside Kerich, added that City Hall in 1994 approved subdivision of the land, but rejected a valuation presented to it. They said the documents in City Hall’s possession are not clear on the reasons for the rejection or for the subdivision. The two were representing Governor Mike Sonko, who had been summoned to explain the multi-billion-shilling property. Kathenge said it was not clear from the documents why the City Council rejected the valuation. “It was not clear whether the valuation was for compensation of the public utility or whatever. While going through those documents, it is not clear to us,” he said. Kathenge told the committee the county government was not involved in any public participation regarding the land ownership. “As we sit here today, the county is not aware of any public participation that took place regarding ownership or subdivision of this land for development purpose,” he said. Lands CS Faridah Karoney last week told the committee the compensation package to Mburu’s firms – Afrison Import Export Ltd and Huelands Ltd – was irregular. The committee is probing the compensation deal after it emerged the property could be public land.