Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka on Friday supported proposals to amend the Constitution using the Bomas Draft as the model. The proposed changes will ensure equity and regional balance in governance, he said. The Wiper boss, however, cautioned that such constitutional changes must not be aimed at creating positions for individual leaders. Kalonzo said they should rather be used to advance unity, peace and development. “We need to have a serious relook into the Constitution. The amendment of the Constitution is the all-important thing now,” he said. Kalonzo spoke to the party’s National Executive Council/Parliamentary Group during a retreat at the Elementaita Country Lodge. On the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga, Kalonzo said, “The issue is not about the handshake, but about serious national conversation on the future of Kenya.” “As a show of goodwill and to prove that the handshake is working, all those pending criminal prosecutions against politicians, and particularly concerning the Pangani Six, should be dropped and a nolle prosequi entered.” Kalonzo also said Wiper will be rebranded and strengthened at the grassroots and constituency levels. The Wiper leaders are on a two-day retreat in Naivasha to reflect on the election and the way forward for the Movement. Last month, former Prime Minister Raila Odinga proposed radical constitutional changes to create a three-tier system of government. The third level — provincial ­­— would be a bridge between the national and county governments to ensure a seamless relationship between the two, and equitable development across the country. “My proposal is that we adopt a three-tier system that retains the current counties, creates regional governments and retains the national government, and with a very clear formula for revenue sharing,” Raila said. The proposals are similar to the provisions in the 2005 Bomas Draft Constitution that proposed 14 regional governments. The Opposition leader said the third tier will boost development in the 47 counties. Click here for the latest political news