Once upon a time, there were two neighbours — a teacher and an insurance agent. Both had different plants in their gardens and the teacher gave a small amount of water to his plants while his neighbour fed his with a lot of water and looked after them too well. The teacher’s plants were simple but looked good, while those of the insurance agent were much fuller and greener. One night, there was a heavy rain and a wind due to a minor storm and in the morning, the insurance agent found his plants had been uprooted. He was surprised to see the teacher’s plants still standing and asked him how that could have been possible. The teacher smiled and said, “You gave your plants more attention and water, but because of that, they didn’t need to work themselves for it. I gave them just an adequate amount of water and let their roots search for more. And, because of that, their roots went deeper and that made their position stronger.” Today, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto are the teacher in the story above. Any other person opposed to the Jubilee dream, which was born before the 2013 election, is the insurance agent. All those falling in the ranks of Jubilee must realise this and work towards ensuring the Jubilee dream is kept alive and is not uprooted prematurely. Jubilee politicians must focus on what Uhuru and Ruto are doing as the ingredients that will give deeper roots to this dream. Evidently, there are some politicians who intend to keep the nation in a suspended state of indefinite politics as they campaign for seats in 2022. This has been witnessed severally and unfortunately, some of these politicians fall in the ranks of the Jubilee Party. Uhuru and Ruto are focussed on delivering the Big Four agenda but are being fed by unnecessary ego- enabling politics by some of their lieutenants. While the two are focussed on bringing in investors and enabling partnerships with the private sector, these politicians keep bringing up 2022. The bond and pact between Uhuru and Ruto is that of brothers with a clear path on what happens in the next election. There is no guesswork on who Uhuru, as he has made it clear in public severally, will be supporting for the presidency. For now, everyone in Jubilee must roll up their sleeves and focus on helping Uhuru and Ruto deliver. It was heartbreaking to see a picture of a voter braving the cold rain to speak to her ‘Mheshimiwa’, who was sitting comfortably, warm inside a helicopter and blatantly ignoring her. As this was sinking in, we saw the burial of Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim turned into a contest among Rift Valley leaders. A visitor reading the newspapers or watching the news may think elections are around the corner. This is because politicians have made this an all-season business, forgetting there is a time for everything. It was totally uncalled for that some politicians demanded that the President makes his stand clear on his support for Ruto. He has done this countless times, including during his reelection campaigns. The most important thing mwananchi is focused on right now is service delivery. This is what will define Uhuru’s legacy and ensure the DP becomes President in 2022. The Rift, and all other politicians, must tone down political temperatures and create a conducive environment for the Big Four to flourish. Focussing on politics is like that insurance agent, who gave his plants too much care and forgot the plants needed to grow on their own. The Jubilee dream will get deeper roots if leaders focus on better healthcare, jobs through manufacturing, affordable housing and food security. With these deepened roots, 2022 will be a walkover for Ruto. Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda