Water CS Eugene Wamalwa has hit out at Ford Kenya and ANC leaders Moses Wetang’ula and Musalia Mudavadi for complaining they were not involved in the handshake of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga. The country has started healing from differences of the past because of the truce, he said in Karachuonyo yesterday. “When someone you call baba  in the house has gone out to look for food why should the children complain that they were not informed? They should wait for food at home,” the CS said. Eugene added he is happy Mudavadi has realized the meaning of the meeting between President Kenyatta and Raila and told Wetang’ula to follow the suit. “We must ensure we devolve that handshake. When I go to western I will talk to my brother Wetangula to see the meeting as a sign beyond 2022 politics, a sign of a better future for our country,” he said. “When Jaramogi Oginga Odinga was working together with the late Michael Wamalwa who complained? And when we brought Ford Kenya to Nyanza region were we not united?” Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Governor Cyprian Awiti, Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okwome and Kanini Kega of Kieni promised to ensure the government achieves its agenda. Wanga said the handshake was beyond the politics of 2022 elections. Its aim is unity and development to all Kenyans. That is why leaders of different political sides are embracing one another. “The time for politics ended a long time ago. At the moment we are focused on developing our country. The handshake between our two leaders is way far beyond 2022 politics,” Wanga said. Kega said development can not be achieved without peace and Jubilee politicians are proud of the pact. The President and Raila thought it wise to hold their meeting alone. Had other leaders been involved maybe the deal could have collapsed, the legislator said. “I am happy that today I can walk freely without even a bodyguard. I can interact with leaders from NASA whom we were not seeing eye to eye in the past. We must devolve the handshake,” he said. Awiti and Okuome said they support the unity the leaders have brought to the country saying it has already started bearing fruits. The leaders presided over distribution of relief food to over 2,000 displaced residents of Osodo village Karachuonyo, Homa Bay. Click here for the latest political news