In his seminal book The Oxford Handbook of Rhetorical Studies, Arthur Edward Harris sums up the history and purpose of rhetoric, thus: The main forum for political speech in the Greek city-state was the Assembly, which all male citizens had the right to attend. Speakers in the Assembly were not members of political parties promoting an ideology but appealed to the interests of the entire community and to shared social values. To win the trust of fellow citizens, speakers employed rhetoric to stress their moral integrity and their personal dedication to public service. The agenda of the Assembly was set by the Council, and speakers had to address a specific proposal for immediate action. The business of the Assembly included foreign affairs, public finance, military campaigns, and religious business — there was no separation of the church and the state in the ancient Greek world. The Greeks made a strict distinction between speeches before the Assembly (deliberative oratory) and those given in the law courts (forensic oratory) and at festivals and public funerals (epideictic oratory). As writer Sophie Lee explains it, the term “orator” has two specific meanings — in common language, one who delivers an oration, a public speaker; and technically, one who prays for relief, a petitioner. The true orator is the poet of the practical. History has a long list of orators and their having almost hypnotic following, awe and admiration, but history also shows many of these were of no good to humanity, with key among them and the worst for that matter having been one Adolf Hitler. Interestingly, some of the fiery orators in modern history have, as their common denominator, an appeal to emotions based on some immutable characteristic such as race, ethnicity or national origin. It was precisely these emotions Donald Trump rode to his accidental presidency. Americans are now paying the price and so is the world, with the worse likely to come. President Uhuru Kenyatta is not exactly an orator of Mahatma Gandhi, Dr Martin Luther King, Jr or Barack Obama’s caliber, and few are. However, he can be an eloquent speaker and he often is, giving testimony to his privileged upbringing and elite education early on in his life — a fact one can argue has not come to bear fruit in his capacity as leader of the country. The President has a chance to bear such fruits for the country and going by what he said during his State of the Nation address, he’s off to a good start. According to this newspaper, the President asked for Kenyans to forgive him for not uniting the country during last years’ elections. That’s a very clever line: Imagine if the President had asked for forgiveness for creating or, in the least, being the beneficiary of a rigged electoral system that bitterly further divided the country? But given we’re in a forgive-and -unite mode since the handshake, we put that aside and see what else the President has to say and will do. “You saw the consequences: lives lost, property destroyed, our unity sapped ... I want to be clear here: never again should Kenyan lives be lost for politics’ sake. Never again should Kenyans’ property be destroyed on account of politics but that will not just happen on its own,” Uhuru said. “From Mandera to Maseno, Mbita to Mvita, Lodwar to Lunga Lunga, let us shake hands and embrace our neighbours, and let us celebrate the diversity that is God’s gift to us,” he urged. “And since leadership is best done, not by exhortation but by example, let me do as I have asked you to do. If there was anything I said last year that hurt or wounded you, if I damaged the unity of this country in any way, I ask you to forgive me and join me in repairing that harm,” Uhuru said as Babu Owino approached him. Mr President. We forgive you. Now put your words of forgiveness and unity into action and let’s see if your actions match your words.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States   