It is said that it is never too late to find salvation. This appears to be the case for rapper Circuit, who is notorious for releasing two of the ‘dirtiest’ songs in Kenya’s history ‘Juala’ and ‘Manyake’. Together with his partner in crime Joel, the duo took the industry by storm with their lewd music content. And while 'Juala' somewhat advocated the use of protection, it ruffled a lot of feathers which partly contributed to the rappers’ downfall. But that was more than a decade ago. Circuit has since turned over a new leaf and is now leading like Jesus himself. We can now undoubtedly call him fisher of men. He is now serving the Kingdom. He recounts his past life. "I was an extreme drunkard. Then one day, I am in the house having my drinks, weed and so on. I told myself that I needed to change. "I was alone in the sitting room having my normal drinking. My wife and everyone in the house was a sleep. We had a house girl who was saved. [I] went straight to her bedroom, woke her up and told her, 'pray for [me], I need to get saved'. She asked me, shocked, nikuombee ukiwa mlevi? Told her, 'yes'. I knelt down and that is how I got saved. "I went to bed, nikaamsha [and woke up] my wife. I told her, 'by the way nimeokoka [I just got saved]' and she could not believe me. In the morning, I used to wake up and smoke and of course that is what I did. Then all of a sudden, I remembered that I had got saved. My wife was again mad at me because she thought I was joking. I used to have a whole park of beer in the house." To convince his wife he called his friend Ringtone. "...and told him to come to my house. He came and I gave him all the beer and told him to go bury them because I was saved. He too was shocked but at the same so happy for me. That is how my salvation journey picked." His family was nearly falling apart because of his bad habits. "My wife told me 'I will come back but under one condition, we go take an HIV test'. Nikajikaza but honestly that was the most challenging thing to do. “Nakumbuka tukiwa pale VCT after kupimwa tukiwa tumegonja zile 15 minutes, nilikua nafungua page ya magazine, nakumbuka Coast, those girls, nakumbuka Kampala, those girls, Arusha, naona siwezi ponea. I am looking at the doctor trying to read his mind, nione kama ako worried ju me nilikua najua nimemess kabisa. The doctor finally brought their results. Nilimharakisha coz nilikua nataka aniambie kama naenda Othaya (his shags) in a coffin. Sikuamini ati ameniambia niko negative. I asked him like three time. Uko sure nikienda kwingine sitapata different? He said yes I was okay. “I was sleeping on the couch, for three months because my wife told me not to sleep in her bed for three months mpaka tuende test ya pili. Those three months, I was not peaceful, panic was me. I told God if this this test comes out well, I will change my ways. Fortunately it was confirmed and came out well. "I had slept with so many girls na nikaona, If I continue with the same trend, I would finally die.”