Senior officials at the Agriculture ministry yesterday failed to appear before a parliamentary watchdog team. They were invited by the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee to explain why importers were allowed to supply maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board. “Witnesses must take this committee seriously and appear to provide answers to questions raised,” chairman Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja MP) said. The committee invited the officials to appear before it today. Read: PS Lesiyampe suspends eight NCPB bosses Speaking to the media separately, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said he has set up an investigation department and invited an audit team to net rogue officials partnering with cartels to embezzle farmers’ funds. He pledged to overhaul various departments over graft. “They can run but they cannot hide. I will completely clean up the NCPB. I know there might be consequences, but I will clean it up just the same way I did with the Agriculture Food Authority,” Kiunjuri said. “Once I’m through with the NCPB, I will move to the Kenya Meat Commission and clean it up. We cannot continue with this kind of impunity.” Kiunjuri warned officials against engaging in corruption, saying he will not spare anyone. “I was given this job by the President to serve the people of Kenya. Everyone working under me should know they are working for the best interests of Kenyans,” he said. Eight suspended NCPB chief executive Newton Terer resigned on Sunday and denied allegations he was suspended. “There was nothing like suspension. I just decided to resign,” he told the Star. The resignation came even as eight top NCPB officials were suspended to pave way for investigations on the board’s operations. Crops Development PS Richard Lesiyampe suspended three regional managers from Lake Western, North Rift and South Rift regions. Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge, Bungoma, Kisumu and Nakuru silo managers were also asked to step aside. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the DCI are conducting the investigations. NCPB chairman Mutea Iringo last Friday said culprits will face disciplinary action. “The investigations are going on and action will be taken against any government officials who may have been involved in graft or acts which caused the problems at the board,” he said. Also read: 22 NCPB chiefs suspended over fertiliser Click here for the latest political news