Seven years
after Kenya invaded Somalia to tame terror attacks in the Coast and
Northeastern by al Shabaab, the army is still lodged in the country. The Kenya
Defence Forces have had some ups and downs, but any plans to retreat are pegged
back by unending volatility. Our
reporter Ramadhan Rajab visited the KDF operation base in Dhobley,
Somalia, where he met Joakim Mwamburi. Mwamburi is the fourth brigade
commander of Kenyan forces in Sector 2, southern Somalia. He speaks in
a firm and persuasive voice, and was happy to answer our
questions. How far is this operation from victory and how will
victory look like? Victory will
not be a one-off event. It will be seen when we hand over the security of the
country to the SNA but still sleep soundly back home, knowing that Somali
people are going on with their lives normally and all institutions of
governance and the criminal justice system are functioning unhindered. This is the
reason we are not relenting in the fight until the threat, whether in Kenya or
Somalia, is neutralised, and we bring this culture of violence that has been
synonymous with Somalia to a lasting end. What is the progress made so far? We started
under the code name Operation Linda Nchi on October 4, 2011. This was
after constant al Shabaab interference in Kenya’s economy and
affairs, including repeated grenade attacks, rampant piracy and kidnappings on the
shores of Malindi and Lamu. Operation
Linda Nchi culminated in Operation Sledge Hammer, the capture of Kismayu,
before the Kenyan army was absorbed into Amisom following a request by Africa
nations through the AU. KDF then joined other countries to further pacify
Sector 2, namely Burundi, Djibouti, Siera Leone and Uganda. Gains so far
include pacification of sector 2, clearance of main supply routes and
degradation of al Shabaab. Since 2014, we have been building the capacity of
the Somali National Army (SNA) and mentoring them through joint patrols,
ambushes, escorts and raids. We are also supporting the local administration by
identifying and training them to fill gaps in the provision of security and
social services, such as education and medical service. So we give the people,
especially the children of Somalia, hope. We have supported repatriation of refugees since
2014; over 79000 have been voluntarily repatriated in Somalia. In January and
March this year, we have heard 3,199 refuges destined to lower Juba, Kismayu
Afmadow and Baidoa. We have intensified our civilian-military
cooperation. All our Forward Operations Bases conduct free medical camps in
areas they occupy and organise community sports tournaments. How was Somalia’s national and social fabric before you came here,
and how is the rebuilding taking shape? Upon our entry
here, there was nothing worth talking about. Today specifically, speaking
about Jubaland, where sector 2 is operating, the institutions are now being
built even though at a slow pace because of funding, and the revenue from
markets isn’t sufficient. The region needs capacity building and more support
for faster reconstruction. Sector 2, which is under the KDF, is termed the toughest, and
Jubaland is where the Shabaab head resides. How long will it take to
degrade it fully and why do they find it easy to operate in this region? This enemy
doesn’t have boundaries. It moves from sector 2 to 3 and back. It thrives
here because of the vast terrain, heavy vegetation and poor infrastructure, in
terms of roads. Because of the canopy, even our aerial assets are at times
unable to pick them out, but we will endeavour to deal with them. Nevertheless,
our war is intelligence-led. This gives us precision on attacks and raids
getting to the core of al Shabaab. At the moment, we have degraded them. They
can’t put up a fight. They now engage in asymmetrical warfare, using improvised
mobile control explosives to launch attacks. They have been degraded to a level
that they can’t face any force or put a fight, and most are defecting to join
rehabilitation facilities and be integrated back into the society. There are parts in Sector 2 where al Shabaab still enjoys local
support. Why is this so and what are you doing about it? Al Shabaab
operates within the populations and sometimes has exploited ungoverned spaces
in those areas. But our civilian-military relations engagements are key to
changing that support. We pacify an area then develop it by providing necessary
services to the population, rendering al Shabaab ideology irrelevant. The UN and international community in general expects Amisom troops
to exit Somalia by 2020. Is the country read to fill this void? Since the
introduction of the UN resolution 23 of 72, we are actually on phase 1 of the
drawdown of 1,000 Amisom soldiers, which was done in December, and a further 1,000-soldier
drawdown is set for October this year. Matters of
transitions are 90 per cent security; the rest will fall in place. The
political will is there. However, if I speak in the context of this region, Jubaland,
where sector 2 is, support, in terms of kinetic and non-kinetic, is
what is failing Jubaland institutions. They would like to recruit and train
more equipped troops so they can take over. We urge international partners to
try and assist. We should start from regional level as we go to national level.
This is the only way we can achieve transition in the fastest way
possible. The clan
dynamics is a hindrance to transition from a national level, where we see
some regions marginalised by the national government itself over which clan is
commanding which place. This clanism also plays out in recruitment of SNA
soldiers. For example,
sector Kismayu has only 1,500 SNA soldiers, whereas sector 1 and sector 3
have almost 3,000 integrated and trained soldiers. So you find there are some
gaps entrenched in the leadership of the nation, which requires further
interrogation and probably further transparency. So there is acceptance that
this nation can better be guided through strengthening regional governments
then they merge at the top, than start from the top and expecting it to trickle
down. It will be
detrimental. All our efforts and the blood we have spilt in this country will
go down the drain in the event of the drawdown if the specifics are not
addressed. Specifics are
the need to capacity build in terms of personnel and infrastructure of the
security forces of Somalia, equipping the SNA with kinetic and non-kinetic
support from partners and the UN, training and mentoring, and the rule of law
is a must before we speak about drawdown. Looking
forward, we want capacity building of Somali forces, pacification of areas of
operation and supporting locals with rebuilding their lives through
civilian military activities. Then and only then can we talk of further
drawdown and eventual exit of Amisom. Is Kenya ready to move with the UN resolution and hand over
security to SNA, so KDF can exit Somalia? We are ready
to exit Somalia anytime, but we need to build capacity of local forces to a
level that we are sure SNA is ready to defend their country. In that, when we
hand over the areas we are occupying, they are able to hold ground and not be pushed
out the following day. We are ready to leave but with a caveat so the gains are
not lost. The SNA are
upbeat in terms of recruitment and training, and we look forward to mentoring
them so they are ready to take over by 2020. However, the October drawdown and
the phase 2 that kicks in on January-June next year, we ask for its delay until
the force they said will recruit 1,000 people in each region is ready to
replace Amisom troops. What will it take to rebuild a formidable
SNA? Issues of clan
cannot be wished away. This is where the hurdle lies. Therefore, it will start
by integrating clans in terms of where they are coming from, as it won’t work
if integration starts from a national level. The integration, however, should
start right from the district level then to the regions. Those units then can
be merged at the top to form a national army. How does it feel commanding sector 2, and what do you go through
in this battlefield? It is a
challenging task. But I am well trained and have experience, from being a
deputy sector commander and having commanded troops before. Therefore, I am up to
the task. For me, it’s an honour to be carrying on this national duty. Our brothers
back home should know we face challenges and we don’t sleep to ensure they are
safe because we love them and our motherland Kenya. That is the reason we
are here. We look forward to coming home safe one day after we hand over the
security of this country to the Somali National Army. How does your ordinary day look like? Always my day
starts very early. I have to interact with all my commanders in mobile
infantry unit (MIBs) in Busar, Afmadow, Kolbiyo and Kismayu to know how
the night was, so I can give a brief to my boss. How do you keep the morale of your troops up, especially after a
loss like the killing of eight soldiers near Dhobley on May 6? Immediately
after a loss, you have to be there at the scene as a commander. Visit them,
tell them yes it has happened, but we have to soldier on. Secondly, evacuation
has to be swift. The wounded have to be evacuated within 20min. When it takes
longer, it bogs down their morale. Thirdly, you
ensure that their welfare is well taken care of, talking to them after the
attacks, have a session one-on-one with them to evaluate what went wrong and
what we could have done differently to avoid the loss. On matters of
welfare, our soldiers normally go on leave for a week or two to rest and recoup.
Above all, their allowances are paid on time. In all our
operation bases, we have religious services for both Muslims and Christians for
spiritual nourishment, as well as counsellors to deal with anyone who shows
signs of stress. You speak passionately about giving hope to children of Somali. Where
do you draw this passion from? Look at a
child growing up in Somalia currently. What is their aspiration and what are
they looking up to? Without giving them hope, they won’t have anything to look
up to. By targeting schoolchildren with hope messages, we are targeting the
engine that will help rebuild Somalia into a formidable nation. They will
realise the mistakes their forefathers made so they don’t fall into the same
pitfalls. As Kenyans
come together, build resources and come to help those we have liberated come up
with projects, then and there we will see some fruits in the community, because
this war can only be won through winning hearts and minds of the local
populations. How do you engage the locals and what do you intend to achieve? In any area we
have liberated, there are leaders and that’s where we start. Be it the chief,
the DC or clan elders, we bring them together and engage them before we engage
the population, and they tell us what they need most in terms of education,
health and others issues through civilian-military initiatives. We also
identify the key issues affecting the locals and how we can come in. This is to
make sure there is no relapse or room for al Shabaab to come and exploit, and
to boost relationships, which is good in information sharing.