Even as we mourned and celebrated Kenneth Matiba as our hero, we should not forget our other heroes who also fought for our first and Second Liberation. It may be that the ‘lower class’ fighters for freedom may not have had lots of resources to contribute to the struggles but the worth of their contribution is invaluable — sacrifice of life, love of country or patriotism and bearing the thorny wheel of change. Notwithstanding, there is always an effort by some media to attribute all efforts to gain freedom to the very few, well-to-do fighters or crusaders. This is because media is mesmerised by wealth, worships health, and the riches of the few are given higher premium than the lives of the poor. While there are many reasons for this bias, most outstanding is that the rich own media, which are managed by prejudiced middle-class editors. After all, many media persons want to be rich, and they think they can only become wealthy not by fighting poverty, but the poor wherever they find them. Outside class bias and prejudice, there is no other reason why they cannot mourn and celebrate Matiba and in the process also remember other freedom fighters who fought with him for liberation. In fact, we diminish Matiba by removing him from the company of his comrades. After all, there is strength in unity, not separation. When people push a vehicle stuck in mud, even a little extra energy from a small person can free it, but it won’t be a surprise if the extra guys don’t get any credit. Let us remind ourselves of the context under which we are mourned — and are still mourning — Matiba. His death does not make his colleagues irrelevant, except to those who fought against them. For Daily Nation Public Editor Peter Mwaura to acknowledge that poor freedom fighters are ignored by media for their low-class status was very honest and remarkable but not the only reason. Unfortunately, the injustice to the poor freedom fighters is denying Kenya other heroes tomorrow. Who will fight for the country when the heroism of the common man is not acknowledged? Essentially, media serves no justice to freedom fighters by denying them coverage. And these fighters are not only ignored when celebrating rich heroes at funerals but also when seeking redress in the courts for injustices, torture and persecution suffered when in prison and detention. Rich former detainees, political prisoners and prisoners of conscience are always compensated better than their poor colleagues, considered to have lost less property, earnings and opportunities while in prison — as White racists think the White suffer pain more than the Blacks. Generally, the Kenyan media has lots of antipathy for fighters from poor backgrounds and they are not declared heroes yet. Before you are at the apex of fame, or you have been acknowledged as a hero by the world, they will have no space or time for you. Remember the case of Nobel Laureate Wangari Maathai? Despite her environmental work, she was completely ignored until the Nobel Peace Prize came her way. She was suddenly visible to Kenyan media. Heroes of the Second Liberation such as Rumba Kinuthia must have a lot of patience before posterity rescues them from obscurity. The time of these heroes is not today but tomorrow, when our leaders are no more. Media should treat such heroes the way they do athletes. They must give the medal of heroism to whoever is the winner even if you don’t like him or her. It happens, however, that in this country, heroes are made by governments and amplified by the media. That is why most heroes are small and obscure. Fortunately many of the state and media heroes are stillborn. They die before they are born. When have you heard Kenya celebrating Dedan Kimathi, JM Kariuki, Pio Gama Pinto, Bildad Kaggia, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, Tom Mboya, General Kago, Mirugi Kariuki and others? The rich and poor of Kenya don’t have same heroes. Just as the hyenas and the sheep cannot have the same heroes, the rich have their heroes as the poor shall some day have theirs. Ultimately, those who ignore the poor are paying lip service to the so-called rich heroes, who have been ruined by their detention and imprisonment.       