Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion has maintained that he will not quit the position and instead apologised to those he has wronged within and outside the union. Addressing the media on Thursday, Sossion said he has no ill-will against anyone adding that 'I have no enemies'. "... I am a Christian by virtue and I should forgive those who have wronged me.  If I have hurt you, forgive me as well. I am still devoted to my work as secretary general and I will do it without fear or favour," he said. On Wednesday, Sossion moved to the court through lawyer James Orengo after his purported suspension on May 1. He was replaced by Hesborne Otieno following a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting during which members voted in favour of a motion to discuss his conduct. The meeting was attended by chairperson Wycliffe Omuchenyi, deputy secretary-general Collins Oyuu, acting national treasurer Muuo Ndiku, and acting vice national treasurer Dorothy Muthoni. But Sossion dismissed the decision. He said the calls to have him out of office have been politically instigated by people with selfish interests. "... I was not suspended because to suspend an officer you ought to use the constitution and you must write to the Secretary-General to requisition stating the agenda. This a mere politics of wishful thinking," he said. "I forgive those who have been fighting me inside and outside the union," he said. Read: Sossion stays put amid calls to leave SG office Sossion said the union must follow the President Uhuru Kenyatta's footsteps and embrace unity in all areas. "..the bible says that forgive those who trespass against you and vice versa. His speech should be a landmark segment that the nation must support for unity and peace," he said. "Kenyans must forgive and leave in one another and believe in one another. I wish to continue supporting the call of unity in this country and I call upon KNUT to continue watering the tree of unity as they continue their work." He said he is prepared to differ with everybody and stand alone in the union's resolutions. Earlier, the High court issued orders temporarily barring the registrar of trade unions and TSC from removing or de-registering Sossion as Knut secretary general. Judge Maureen Onyango of the Employment and Labour Relations court on Wednesday certified the matter urgent. More on this: Sossion obtains court orders stopping his removal as Knut SG Also read: Sossion, Milemba fired by TSC for joining politics  Click here for the latest political news