All the 45 bodies of victims who died following Wednesday night's Patel dam tragedy have been identified. This followed the positive identification of two bodies at the Nakuru county government morgue on Sunday afternoon. The next of kin for the deceased had been searching for the bodies for the last four days. Phillip Ekeno said the bodies are those of his sister and her daughter. "We lost six family members. My sister, her husband and their four children. We have searched and we have found all of them and we are thankful to God," he said. "We have been going through a hard time like it happens when you lose your people. It was even harder because we lost many people," he added. Read: 44 swept to death as Nakuru dam bursts wall Families were taken through a post-traumatic counseling session by Kenya Red Cross staff before being allowed to identify bodies. Following the identification of all the recovered bodies, the search for bodies was scaled down. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said this is after the numbers of those reported missing and their numbers "seemed to reconcile". "In a search and recovery operation, you never close because there could be something you missed. There could be some data that was incorrect. You could also have people who were passing by and they were caught up in that," Kinyanjui said. Meanwhile, a prayer service was held at the African Independent Pentecostal Church of Africa Lanet for the families of the victims. Governor Lee Kinyanjui was among those who attended the service and said the county government has waived mortuary and postmortem fees for the families of the victims. The mini service came ahead of the main interdenominational service which has been scheduled for Wednesday. "We thank the church for praying and donating to the victims," Kinyanjui said. He said the church plays a crucial role in complementing services offered by government including schools and hospitals. The governor said the County government will partner and support churches in such initiatives. Members of the church held a fundraiser for the victims of the Solai tragedy and pledged to mobilise their branches countrywide to donate. The prayer service was led by AIPCA Archbishop Fredrick Wang'ombe and host Bishop Peter Gatuna. The church leadership said the donations will be delivered to victims in Solai on Wednesday. At the same time, a group of political leaders have called for the inspection of all the dams in the area to avert such tragedies in future. Read: Fears many other dams unsafe after Solai tragedy Speaking at a different church service, Nakuru Deputy Governor Erick Korir said the county government and other stakeholders will work closely with the affected families to ensure restoration. The DG also assured the families that the county government of Nakuru has taken up measures to ensure that challenges that might have led to the tragedy are addressed to avert such incidents in future. Area MCA Peter Mbae said leaders will embark on ensuring restoration of the families after Wednesday's interdenominational prayers. He commended the government and other stakeholders for the unity they exemplified in dealing with the tragedy. Subukia MP Nelson Gachobe said the tragedy could have been avoided adding that some questions need to be answered. “If the law had been followed then this tragedy could not have happened and that is why we are saying this is the time for the law to be followed,” he said. More than 500 households were affected by the tragedy on Wednesday night when water broke loose from the privately owned Patel dam. The houses and farmlands neighbouring the dam downhill bore the brunt of the raging water which left death and destruction in its wake. The dam is said to have broken its wall stretching about a kilometer long. Houses within a radius of more then 2 kilometers were affected. More: EU donates Sh180 million to help flood victims Click here for the latest political news