All the 47 Woman Representatives could soon get Sh100 million each as allocations for the Government Affirmative Action Fund (GAAF). They currently get Sh7 million annually for development projects in their constituencies. MPs get Sh100 million each through the Constituency Development Fund. Rachel Shebesh, the Chief Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs, feels the allocation to woman representatives is a drop in the ocean, when compared with projects rolled out. "We are looking at increasing these funds," Shebesh said on Wednesday at the National Industrial Training Authority (NITA) in Industrial Area, Nairobi. Shebesh said they do not have any problem with MPs' allocation and that it started the same way as the GAAF, which falls in the Public Service ministry. MPs lobbied until they hit the Sh100 million mark. The CAS said the work the women do deserves government attention. "Women representatives were elected in the same constituencies. She had votes just like an MP so she had the same expectations. This is about recognising the work woman reps are doing. Do we value it? If we do, we should increase the amount." She spoke while presiding over a ceremony on the sponsorship of 200 youths who joined the institute. Shebesh praised Homa Bay Woman Representative for the initiative through the GAAF and NITA. The beneficiaries will undertake a two-month pilot training in demand-driven areas such as plumbing, electrical work and tailoring. Read: How Kenya can fix its massive skills gap problem The CAS noted that the project will contribute immensely to President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda on affordable housing, healthcare, manufacturing and food security. While noting that emphasis was previously put on university degrees, she said: "That led to our polytechnics being viewed as places where failures go. That is what the government has changed." She added that university degrees have not guaranteed employment and that skilled labour training has made a difference. Young men and women armed with vocational skills will not miss jobs placement once the Big Four are achieved, she said. "The mindset of Kenyans needs to change [so they see that training is an] avenue for people [to acquire] skills that allow them to get work." On the two thirds gender rule, Shebesh said the country is on the right track as people have realised that women in positions of leadership can change the dynamics of how the government works. "We are in a good place because we are changing the conversation. It is not about women; t is about a constitutional provision," she said, adding Kenya is undergoing major changes, especially with the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Labour Principal Secretary Khadija Kassachoon noted that industrial training improves skills and makes employment easier. Kassachoon cited inadequate and irrelevant training facilities, as well as improper curricula curricula as some of the challenges. Wanga said skills are required for the country to manufacture and build. "Once they complete their courses, we hop the matter must be resolved under the building bridges initiative following the unity and development agreement. Related: Uhuru, Raila friendliness not enough to fix Kenya’s deep divisions Click here for the latest political news