There is no denying Deputy President William Ruto and his erstwhile political friend Baringo Senator Gideon Moi have a political influence in the Rift Valley and beyond. Both are eyeing higher seats in 2022. In any case, any politician worth his/her salt must be ambitious. An MP would want to be a governor, Deputy President or even President. You have no business being in politics if you don’t dream big. It is, therefore, in order for Gideon to climb the political ladder and reach out as far as he wants. The fact that Ruto shares the same dream should not hinder the Baringo Senator from actualising his aspirations just because he is retired President Daniel Moi’s son. The argument from the DP’s camp is that he is a heartbeat away from the House on the Hill. This is not how to measure or calculate how a politician can easily become the head of state. Being the DP is not enough. In fact, past vice presidents in this country have watched as their dreams to succeed their bosses were pulverised. Ruto is becoming more isolated as the 2022 succession debate intensifies. The March 9 handshake between Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta has without doubt shaken the political landscape. This development has placed the DP in a not so enviable position, where he now must defend his ambitions. By so doing, he has put himself on a collision course with the people he knows or thinks the handshake will benefit. We have seen how his troops have attacked Gideon because the son of Moi is gunning for a top seat in 2022. So what’s the problem with that? Gideon has a constitutional right to vie and haranguing him in funerals and on other platforms cannot stop him. What happened during the burial of Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim in Mochongoi, Baringo county, on May 5 was unfortunate. The DP had to marshal his 87 troops to put Gideon down on a day Baringo was mourning. When the dogs bark, blame their master. In that burial, they found a ready audience for their diatribe. But Gideon was not unsettled. When he stood to address the mourners, he dispersed their intentions to the four winds of Mochongoi by not dwelling on the bitterness in the hearts of those who attacked him, some of whom had travelled all the way from Central Kenya and other corners of Rift Valley — not to mourn with the Kipchoim family but to face Gideon. It is even more unfortunate that the bone of contention against Gideon was a figment of the imaginations by the engineers of the vitriol directed at the politician. What transpired in Kabarak a couple of days to the burial was totally different from what we were being fed as the gospel truth. There are varied versions of the failed DP’s visit to Kabarak. An impeccable source from Moi’s office, who did not want to be mentioned, intimated to this writer that when Energy CS Charles Keter visited Kabarak accompanied by Ainamoi MP William Chepkut prior to the DP’s visit, the duo had a totally different request. Keter said he was in Kabarak to see how more streetlights could be installed in Moi’s expansive farm. Fortunately, Gideon was at home and played host to them. The CS and his entourage were soon airborne without a mention about an appointment for the DP. The highly placed source believes the meeting was planned to fail so that Gideon could be blamed for being hostile to the DP. Either way, the DP would have benefited. If he had met Mzee Moi, he would have used the meeting as an endorsement of his presidential dreams. Where would that have left Gideon, who harbours the same dreams?     