I have had the pleasure of being a momma to a child with special needs for eight years. In that time, I have done everything possible to give my child, Princess, who has multiple special needs, (cerebral palsy and bilateral profound hearing loss) the best life imaginable. I have fought doctors, therapists and individuals on what I knew were best for her. Marched around hospitals, seeking treatment to give her a better quality of life. To say I’m a Momma bear is a complete understatement. Meet Susan Njeri, who introduces herself as mother to all children with cerebral palsy, known and unknown to her. She hopes, on this Mother’s Day, people would hug mothers with special children in the streets and just tell them they are doing a damn good job. Uncountable times, she has heard the statement, ‘God only gives special kids to special parents.’ “I hate those words — God can give anyone, yes, anyone, a child with special needs. I am not special. I’m not deserving of a little miracle child more than the next momma. But I do know one thing: I’m a parent. I, like millions of other women, was so graciously given a child by God. My child just happened to be born with special needs.” As a young mother and bride still in her early twenties, cerebral palsy knocked on her door,  loud and demanding. Uninvited. “Princess had a nuchal cord (umbilical cord round her neck), making her lack enough oxygen at birth,” Susan said. At six months, Princess still had a weak neck muscle and she was taken to KNH, where they met a neurologist. It’s he who broke the then devastating news to her. HOPE AMIDST MELTDOWN Susan says she will never forget the look the doctor gave her when he sat next to her at KNH more than seven years ago. She asked her what kind of a job she and her husband do, and when she said they were in business, his response was astonishing. “If your husband was an MP, I would have ‘eaten’ your money, but now I will advise you to stop coming to me because I will be charging you for nothing. Just go to an occupational therapist,” he told her. “He looked straight at me, striking like a sword through my heart. All I wanted is hope that it was going to be over soon. I was changed in an instant and forever by that doctor’s look. I truly felt I would never laugh again,” she says. Back then, not knowing better, Susan felt despair, anxiety and mostly hopelessness. “ I felt hopeless for how different I thought my family would look from the one I had imagined. I had a moment of emotional meltdown,” she says. But now, looking back on that moment, Susan says she has replaced that anxiety, sorrow and fear with different emotions, hopeful ones. “Today, my daughter, Princess, has transformed me with hope. Hope as I watch her reaching for her full potential, hope that she will be able to communicate her ideas and emotions in her own way. “All images of our future together, as mother and daughter, are filled with images of joy. If I could go back in time, I would tell myself what I now tell the new mothers I have visited and met, whose children have been diagnosed with cerebral palsy: ‘You will laugh again. You will cry again about other things. You will enjoy many moments with your child that have nothing to do with diagnoses, brain damage, toileting and doctors’ appointments. It won’t be easy, but it will be amazing. There will be days, many of them, in which you may totally forget your child has cerebral palsy. Your child will fit perfectly into your family. Do not be afraid. You have been blessed with a beautiful child.’” As a young shy mother who loved her firstborn with everything she had, the diagnosis became a guide to help her find her voice, purpose and acceptance. “It’s hard to look at cerebral palsy from a gratitude perspective, but I am not sure what my life would have been like if my daughter did not have it. I can’t imagine where I would be or what I would be doing, but I’m thankful for my life, and I’m thankful for all that cerebral palsy has helped me realise, the biggest of it being love and patience.” “Diversity is the fabric of this world. And cerebral palsy is just another cloth that adds to the many layers. So thank you, cerebral palsy. You’ve been an awesome teacher.” Susan now runs a daycare for children with cerebral palsy in Nairobi’s Dandora phase one. “I am a mother to all of the 15 children enrolled at Carevine Daycare that I have, and I am hoping for more since I will be making it a boarding facility starting next month,” she says.  OTHER CHILDREN After Princess, Susan got three more children. While most pregnancy announcements are met with joy or at the very least an expected “Congratulations,” her announcement was met with a slew of “Are you crazy? You are joking, right?” It was during the third year post-Princess’ diagnosis, that  she found out she was expecting her son, Prince. “At the time I was unaware there are many people who believe that once you have a child with special needs, you are expected to not have any additional children,” she remembers. She says it was not easy caring for the two children since they both required 100 per cent attention. She remembers one day when Prince got sick and since she could not carry the two to the hospital, she opted to leave Princess at a daycare. “I was charged almost double of the normal rate because she was special and she was never given the attention that she deserved. I came back to find my daughter soiled with other children’s footprints on her legs and hands, it broke my heart,” she says. As stigma lingered among family and friends that she was wrong to get another child and raise him with her special sister, Susan got pregnant for her third born. “When Persley arrived, I knew I was really pushing my luck but since I loved children, I wanted to prove the society wrong,” she said. She went ahead and had her fourth born son, Presley, who is now 11 months old. And given a chance, she would gladly have three more kids. She believes all of them will be ambassadors of cerebral palsy awareness and they will fight for their sister. “The most common judgment I have heard over the years is that I should have never had other children, because they might have been like my eldest and that I will burden them with her.” Such sentiments make many parents with children with special needs fear getting more children. She encouraged such mothers to close their ears and know that every child, no matter what their strengths, weaknesses, needs, ability, or diagnosis, is a blessing. “All of my children are a blessing, and no social stigma about disability will ever change that,” Susan says. “I don’t compare Princess, not even with her brothers. If I was to reward them all, she would take the highest price for using the potential in her and not dissing the capabilities that might be translated as disabilities by any other person.”  LEARNING OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY The first two years after Princess was diagnosed were difficult for Susan. She went to KNH two days in a week for therapy. “There, I found other mothers whom we drunk from the same cup. Some with children with mild cerebral palsy and others with severe. I would give myself false hopes that Princess’ condition was not severe,” she remembers. The pace of recovery for Princess was too slow, and she started losing hope. “I stopped going for therapy at some point since it became too expensive, and at the time the milestones were invisible. I was also financially challenged since I would lack transport to the hospital, despite my mum paying for therapy,” she says. She started attending to Princess from home. She would later move to Mombasa, where she met a very supportive therapist, who took her through parent therapy training sessions. “Doctor Kofa of Port Ritz Hospital even gave me a book about therapy activities. I asked him so many questions and he was always willing to answer. I started even attending to children at the hospital with confidence. I became familiar with everything, such that if you touch my head right now, I will tell you which part you have touched,” she says. They later moved back to Nairobi after the Mombasa weather became too harsh for Princess. It’s then that she started the daycare.  DAYCARE PURPOSE One day while in a supermarket in Dandora, Susan met a woman who tied her big child on her back, and it was clear from the looks the child had cerebral palsy. Susan approached her and asked her where she leaves him if need be. “She was hesitant at first because she thought I was one of those people who just stare and ask questions (they are many) about our children, but she opened up after I told her I have such a child.” Susan led her to the clinic, where they went for therapy and there she met many other mothers. She talked to them and she formed a WhatsApp group. Most of them complained of lack of diapers. “Children with celebral palsy are on diapers throughout, and that becomes a problem since they are expensive,” she said. Susan, armed only with a phone, went to her Facebook page and requested her friends for diapers, and 31 big packets were given. She delivered them to the mothers during their first meeting. She realised many of those women relied on handouts and sympathy, and she wanted to get that mentality out of them. “I told them to start bringing their children to my house and get themselves jobs.” It worked. Many cerebral palsy children are confined, and Susan wishes parents would expose them. “Many times I walk with Princess and people just give us money. That sympathy is what we don’t want. Cerebral palsy doesn’t mean sympathy. Anyone who stares at my child I take it very positively and I take it as a chance to educate them.” As the numbers grew, Susan rented two rooms as some parents started paying for the service. She said the other purpose of Carevine is intensive therapy care and skill training as children move from one milestone to the other.  SPECIAL CAREGIVERS Many times, Susan is given false hopes by people who tell her they are praying for Princess to get well, but what they don’t know is that she is aware that she will never heal. “We don’t need prayers or sympathy for our children. If anything, we only need prayers for more grace.” Linnet Kahura’s three-year journey with a child with cerebral palsy has been of gradual acceptance, and she still gets low moments. Her child’s birth was a short-lived joy. At 14 days, baby G was admitted in hospital and taken to ICU. “Mine is too fresh. When alone I still hear doctors speak in that hospital room, where I heard the words delayed milestone,” she says. She had to quit her job to care for her baby, who had dropped from his initial birth weight of 3.8kg to 1.6kg. “That period was difficult. It’s not something I want to remember every day. G is my second child. If he was my first, I swear I would have died.With all the expectations of a new mother, God shouldn’t make such a thing happen,” she says. Kahura cannot have another child not because G has the condition but because she had purposed to have only two children and G is not less of a child.   “I look at baby G as just a baby and not a baby with cerebral palsy. There are low days for me three years later, especially when I see babies her age running around, but I handle them.” 