The irony displayed by Mt Kenya MPs and politicians is shocking. I have closely followed their political operations as far as Deputy President William Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid is concerned and I can tell you for free the guys are insincere. While in Central the guys never ‘sell’ Ruto for 2022. They only accompany the DP to urge him to ensure that such and such road is built, or repaired. If history serves me right, in 2002 Kikuyus produced more than two presidential candidates. There were Kibaki and Uhuru leading the pack. Then there were Mukaru Ng’ang’a and others, but Kibaki triumphed. We never heard Kikuyus tell any of them to drop their candidature. Kibaki won. It meant Kikuyus knew who to vote for. No one had to remind them. Come 2007, Mt Kenya had a record six presidential candidates — Kibaki, Pius Muiru, Nixon Kukubo, Kenneth Matiba and Ngacha Karani. Uhuru had bolted to support Kibaki. Mt Kenya were not reminded who to vote for. Kibaki won — we know how. In 2013, Uhuru, Martha Karua, Paul Muite and Peter Kenneth were on the presidential ballot. Although PK was seen as a threat, no one asked him to shelve his ambition. Come 2017, a record four candidates from Mt Kenya ran for president. Uhuru beat among others Michael Wainaina, Japheth Kavinga and Joseph Nyagah. We never had rallies condemning the other presidential candidates from the region. Reason? The region knew their preferred choice. No one had to remind them. Now let’s go back to the MPs accompanying Ruto to rallies. As I said in my opening paragraphs, MPs from Mt Kenya only call for Ruto’s presidency while in Rift Valley. This pains me. What makes them think Rift Valley residents don’t make decisions? Why aren’t they selling Ruto in Mt Kenya, or Central Kenya, the way they do in Rift Valley? During Kenneth Matiba’s funeral the Mt Kenya MPs had the best forum to market Ruto the way they tried to during the burial of former MP Grace Kipchoim. This was one of the biggest gatherings of Mt Kenya politicians and the general population. They could do something for Ruto surely? On that day, April 28, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, a very close friend, took his time to ask the DP to help tarmac the Maragi-Gatheru road. I had expected him to tell his people to support Ruto in ’22. He didn’t. Surprisingly, a day later, Ndindi joined Ruto in Uasin Gishu and drummed support for him. I was happy. But wait! Why not the previous day on your home turf? I called Ndindi. I did so because of our friendship and I wanted to pose this question to him. He did not pick my call. Surely, do you need to ask for votes for William in Uasin Gishu? I haven’t heard any politician from Mt Kenya market Ruto on their own. A look at their Facebook pages shows none of the MPs — notably Kimani Ichung’wa, Ndindi Nyoro, Irungu Kang’ata and Senator Susan Kihika— drum up support for Ruto on their own. Is it that they support Ruto when they are with him and not when alone? They only come to Rift Valley. Why not do it at your home? The Kalenjin know what to do. We can have more than two aspirants but we will select the best. Kindly give us room. Show us your support for Ruto on the mountain. Sincerely awaiting your answers. Najua hakuna deni (I know there’s no debt to be repaid). But are you guys technically marketing Baringo Senator Gideon Moi?