Kenya Air Force soldier Moses Wachira broke police dominance to win Chief of Defence Forces shoot during a closely contested fight at KDF’s Rifle Range in Nanyuki over the weekend. This is his first major achievement in his six years of fullbore shooting and he is keen to keep up the momentum ahead of Kenya Open set for between June 3 and 9 at the same venue. Wachira, who is in the process of exiting the military, carded 67 points for one vee-bull to claim the title. To make the cut among the 16 finalists, the aviator raked in an aggregate of 564 points for 46 vee-bulls. He was closely followed by GSU’s Peter Muli, who garnered 66 points for four vee-bulls while defending champion Sanford Otundo scored 65 for five. “This time the challenge was the mirage and not the wind. The ground was quite wet resulting from the heavy rains that had pounded the area hence visibility of the mirage was poor. But I hope the winds will pick before the Kenya Open so that the challenge gets harder for the competition shoots up,” noted Wachira. This being his first title in shooting, Wachira attributes his impressive performance to the coaching he and many other shooters, received from a British tactician last month and a change of rifle from the worn-out RPA Quadlock to Para-Master. He said: “The coach gave us some few insights, tricks and knowledge which I didn’t process before, and I benefited immensely.” Kenya Railways Police’s John Ihugo won the Commander of Kenya Navy after carding 292 points for 28 vee-bulls out of the highest possible score of 300,60v. Wachira was second with 291,28v and the newly promoted Super-X firer Elphas Ng’etich was third with 289,27v. Fullbore ace Christopher Saina topped Commander Kenya Air Force Trophy with 281 for 25v. Wachira was second again with 273 for 18 and Directorate of Criminal Investigation’s Philip Kipchumba sealed the top three places with 272 for 13v. Saina and Wachira downed 567 for 46 and 564 for 46 to once again grab the first two positions respectively as Ng’etich settled for bronze with 553 points for 39v.