More than 10,000 Kisumu homes will be supplied with clean, safe and affordable drinking water. This follows the completion of a Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company (Kiwasco) and the Kenya Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (Kiwash) project. The initiative is sponsored by the US Agency for International Development (USAid). The Sh28 million works will focus on those living in low-income settlements without water connections and rely on wells. Many buy from vendors whose sources include streams, Lake Victoria and boreholes. The safety of the water cannot be established. The 32km line will link Kunya in Manyatta, Arito in Seme, Kombedu in Bandani, Katito and Nyalenda. Families in the areas will get piped water for the first time. local workers The project will draw its water from Lake Victoria through Kiwasco’s Dunga and River Kibos in Kajulu. The water will go through stages of treatment before being emptied into the Kibuye Reservoir. Speaking at the launch in Kunya Manyatta, Kisumu Water executive Salmon Orimba said the project workers will be picked from the local community. “We encourage the Kisumu Water and Sewerage Company to properly use the funds donated for the project,” he said. Orimba added that discussions are ongoing as to how to ensure residents are allocated meters and homes connected to pipes. improving sanitation Kiwasco acting managing director Thomas Odongo said, “This project has been launched to enable communities access clean piped water and improve sanitation.” Kiwash governance manager (Western) Calvince Odera urged the Kisumu county government and Kiwasco to ensure the project is implemented on time and on budget. “Despite the availability of water in the lakeside city, we realised proper supply is not guaranteed, thus the partnership. I appeal to the community to ensure at least 500 households are connect to water,” he said. Upon completion of the project, Odera said Kiwasco will enjoy operational efficiency because of reduced vandalism cases. The project implementation period is three months. “Most cases of Kiwasco pipes destruction are reported in the informal settlements where the residents lack access to clean water,” Odera said. 