Siaya Senator James Orengo has lashed out at those criticizing his remarks over Nasa Raila Odinga’s 2022 race, saying he is entitled to his own opinion. Orengo said he was expressing his personal opinion which he is entitled to as stated in the constitution. “I was speaking as Orengo that in order to drive change, agenda and attain reform in the country, not only in terms of constitution 2010, and desired justice, it would be my proposition that Raila would be a candidate in 2022,” Orengo said in Kisumu. Read; Raila: I’m not interested in 2022 contest He added that in regards to the process Raila initiated with President Uhuru Kenyatta, it was clear that it was not anchored in the year 2022 and therefore urged the country not to bring in the issues in their dialogue. Orengo said there are people who are just ‘political scavenges’ looking for every opportunity to criticize and make political noises. The Siaya senator said the country knows that there are those already campaigning for 2022, and particularly in the Rift Valley where there are superiority contest and several candidates who have announced they will contest in the elections. “There are people actually interested in Raila announcing that he will not be in the race in 2022, which is his own choice,“ Orengo said. In a statement through his spokesman Denis Onyango on Sunday, Raila said he was not in the race and asked Kenyans to refuse to be distracted by the politics of 2022. Orengo, however, said there was no conflict at all and the statement made by Raila’s office was justified because that is not in compliance with what they are doing under the initiative they are undertaking with President Uhuru. “I think I caught them, and they came out loud, the people who criticize my statement and tried to connect it with Raila are the people who have direct interest in 2022, whereas Raila has made it clear that in order to go through this process of dialogue successfully, issues of 2022 should be kept out,”he said. Read: Raila's only option is to vie in 2022, Kalonzo a traitor - MP Odhiambo Also read: Jubilee ready for Raila in 2022, says Murkomen  Click here for the latest political news