Multitalented media personality Willis Raburu and his wife Mary Prude celebrated their first marriage anniversary over the weekend. The young lovebirds, who tied the knot in an invite-only ceremony last year, are doing great, and they spent their weekend at one of the top five-star hotels, Radisson Inn, Nairobi. "Over the weekend, my wife and I sampled Park Inn, Westlands. We had heard such a buzz about it, so we thought, 'Why not!" Wow, it is the perfect spot! Immediately you get in you are sent into another world. The hospitality is amazing. The rooms have amazing beds (very comfortable) and the light feature is my favourite," Raburu wrote. Last year, the media personality said that he and his wife were planning to have 12 children. He has confirmed to Word Is that their plans are still on. "There is so much going on right now. We are working hard so that by the time they show up (and they will), they have the perfect set-up and life. So bado plan ni mtu 12, football team plus a sub." His lovely wife is working on major projects. "My wife is planning to start a fashion styling company called maryaprudecollections. Which means she has to move a lot and travel. We are very excited about it and it’s an area she is very passionate about. She's already doing some consultations." Raburu, who embarked on a weight loss journey a few months ago, has transformed into a fit man, and he says in the next few months, he will be in top shape. The power couple has always documented its fitness journey (#LitToFit). Raburu said followers should expect more episodes soon. "Season 2 of #LitToFit is on the horizon. We are shooting with Fame studios and will roll out the complete season soon," he said. The 10over10 host has also landed an ambassadorial role with a mega local fitness company. "I'm excited to announce a renewed partnership with USN Kenya. They have taken me up as the brand ambassador as I do a #12WeekChallenge on fitness along with my trainer Evelyn Owala of Eveal Health and Fitness." Willis Raburu has developed a thick skin for trolls, and in a previous interview with Word Is, he said he was not moved by critics. "For a long time, a lot of people have talked, shouting about weight, and I wanted so bad to ignore it but it just kept coming. If you’re told ‘you’re fat, umejaa sana, or you are the elephant in the room, etc.' You can brush it off but still itabaki."