Owners of plots taken for the Sh21 billion wind power project in Lamu are demanding Sh1.5 million per acre compensation. The project is to be set up at Baharini in Mpeketoni, where 3,206 acres have been acquired. More than 600 land owners are expecting compensation. On Thursday last week, the High Court in Malindi allowed Belgian firm Elicio, together with Kenwind Holdings, to proceed with the project. For many years, the investor has been unable to proceed with the project due to feuds with Cordison International. It claimed ownership of the land acquired in Mpeketoni for the project. Cordison accused the National Land Commission of favouring Kenwind. The dispute delayed progress of the project and the compensation. Speaking at Baharini yesterday, the land owners said they are confident they will receive the payout soon. They said they will not accept anything less than Sh1.5 million for an acre. NOTHING BUT CASH The same amount was used to compensate those whose lands were acquired for the new Lamu port Lapsset project. Landowners spokesperson Linus Gachoki said the compensation money is long overdue. “They have no reason to delay our compensation. The legal war is over. Let them pay us so we can get on with our lives,” Gachoki said. In January, Lamu residents whose land was acquired for the expansion and construction of the Lamu-Garsen road rejected a move by the NLC to resettle them and instead demanded monetary compensation. Chairman Muhammad Swazuri said the commission would only offer alternative resettlement and no money. Speaking in Lamu, the landowners said they have a right to be allowed to look for property of their choice. The residents were mostly drawn from Witu, Pangani, Majembeni, Kibaoni, Mkunumbi, Ndeu, Sabasaba and Hindi. But the landowners said they would not accept alternative land. They want to settle in places of their choice. “Swazuri should give us Sh1.5 million without bargaining. We weren’t moving out of our land were it not for the road. We did so out of courtesy. Let them return the same,” landowner Julius Munene said. The NLC said about 90 per cent of the land acquired is vacant and the commission will only compensate a “handful of individuals”. Former Woman Representative Shakila Abdalla had urged the state to speed up compensation. In May last year, Lamu residents demonstrated outside the Malindi law courts. COURT CASE WASTE OF TIME They demanded the withdrawal of the land case to pave way for the wind energy project in Baharini. The residents asked Cordison to allow Kenwind to set up the project. Cordison is owned by three Kenyan brothers, two of them living in the US. It moved to court to compel the NLC and Swazuri to issue lease documents as directed by the county government to put up the project. Kenwind is a subsidiary of Elicio. Cordisons obtained orders from the Land and Environment Court restraining Kenwind from implementing the project until the case is determined. Addressing journalists outside the Malindi law courts, the residents said the case is frustrating the investor and wasting time and money. Linus Gachoki, a resident of Baharini, said, “I do not know why the matter was brought to court yet the county government of Lamu issued a place for implementing the project.” Click here for the latest political news