As much as Sh480 million could have been lost in illegal and irregular payments by the city for outside legal services in the 2015-16 financial year, a report has shown. The Public Accounts Committee report on the Auditor General’s Report for the year showed procedure was not followed during payment for services by contracted law firms. The report tabled by PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo in the chamber last Thursday also shows that the payments far exceeded what was budgeted for legal services. “The county government’s actual expenditure on the legal fees of Sh580 million exceeded its approved budgetary allocation of Sh100 million, resulting in over expenditure of Sh480,”  the report reads. The report says the county finance officials at the time did not submit a supplementary budget to the assembly for approval to regularise the over-expenditure as required by law. They were identified as Gregory Mwakanongo (Finance CEC), Luke Gatimu (Finance chief officer) and Maurice Okere (head of Teasury) as well as accounting officer in the legal department Section 196 of the Public Finance Management Act requires the executive to regularise — in the form of a supplementary budget — any expenditure incurred outside the budget. This should be done within two months of the expenditure. The payments were also made outside the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS) as required by the National Treasury. This make it difficult for the committee to confirm if the payments were made. There were no relevant documents to support the expenditure and submissions by the officers who made the payments did not satisfy the committee. The payments were allegedly made to Mugoye and Associates, Koceyo and Company Advocates, Rustam Hira Advocates, Kithi and Company Advocates KTK Advocates and Kithii and Company Advocates. The report said City Hall has been losing millions of shillings in outsourcing legal services through collusion between county officers and lawyers. This is seldom necessary because the county has a legal department, headed by a director. The county also loses most of the cases despite the millions of shillings spent on outside lawyers. “Chief officer Public Service Management in conjunction with the county public service board and state agencies should subject current legal officers in the legal department to a rigorous vetting process to eliminate those who collude with external lawyers to defraud the county,” the report read. The report recommends the Director of Public Prosecutions charge against Mwakanongo, Gatimu and Okere for breaching Section 196 of the PFM Act and for “irregular payment of legal fees leading to loss of public funds”. It also wants the trio be barred from holding public office. The three former officers had admitted during their submissions in March that they “made an attempt”  to present the supplementary budget through legal affairs committee, but the committee denied receiving the document. Mwakanongo, Gatimu and Okere also had said the legal cost was part of pending bills and therefore not budgeted for under the legal department. They  said the payments were made under duress since arrest warrants were issued by courts that the money be paid. The committee dismissed the claims, saying they were not related to the cases mentioned.