The revelation last week by the Ministry of Agriculture that 18 maize merchants failed NCPB’s vetting exposed how cartels manipulate the system. Before farmers deliver maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board, they must present a letter signed by the chief, ward administrator, an officer from the Agriculture ministry and a religious leader. A depot manager is supposed to carry out tests on a sample of maize to ascertain if it is dry and if it meets the required moisture content of 13.5 per cent. Thereafter, a farmer gets a receipt to wait for cash in their accounts in two weeks. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo yesterday told the Star the officials supposed to conduct vetting lack capacity. This has opened a window for the wealthy and powerful cartels to compromise the process, he said. “Cartels manipulate the vetting process. They are able to compromise officials. They exaggerate the size of land, if one is a genuine farmer,” Menjo, a farmer in Uasin Gishu, said. “If they are not interfering with the system, why were they getting prompt payments yet farmers are suffering?“ Reports indicate that some of the influential suppliers received letters directly from the Ministry of Agriculture to take their maize to an NCPB depot of their choice. They bypassed vetting. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter said there is nothing like vetting as cartels control the sector. “Which vetting? In Uasin Gishu, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia, all farmers with large farms of more than 2,000 acres are known. Many have sold their farms,” he said. “Sub-division has been done, so no one can supply such huge amounts to the NCPB,” Keter, who has been vocal on the scandal, told the Star. Preliminary findings of an internal audit by the Agriculture ministry tabled last week on Thursday in Parliament revealed massive rot. Moiben MP Silas Tiren said, “Farmers have been making noise all along. There are problems not only on how the vetting is done, but the operations of the NCPB and the parent ministry,” he said. Tiren, who spoke to the Star on the phone, said NCPB boss Newton Terer and regional managers who been sent home may have been sacrificed. Terer resigned last week. “For maize to be received in the Kisumu depot, somebody must have given authority. Terer owes Kenyans an explanation on what really happened. That resignation is not enough,” Tiren said. He also questioned why the report did not include Bungoma, Moi’s Bridge, Nairobi and Kitale depots. The MP said, “there is more than meets the eye”. Read: DPP asks KRA, DCI, Assets Recovery Agency to join probe at NCPB Click here for the latest political news