“Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery…let any one of you, who is without sin, be the first to throw a stone at her….at this, those who heard began to go away one at a time…” In this story, the Pharisees had frogmarched the adulteress and paraded her befor the crowd Jesus was teaching. They demanded to know from Him what they should do with her, despite an existing provision of the Law of Moses. On April 27,we witnessed a similar occurrence involving a Deputy Governor and an unnamed female. And as in the Holy Book, she remained nameless. Like the Pharisees, we morphed into moral policemen and paraded them in front of a virtual crowd, where they were prosecuted unheard. The ensuing humiliation was inconceivable. Yet, there exist many other more humane ways that could have been applied to handle this ‘infraction’. Guilty was our verdict. And with that followed the new normal: The anonymous crowd violence, and the insensitive podium and online comments. Behind this veil, we abdicated our personal responsibility and human connection to the two consenting adults. And the blame game followed swiftly. Everyone who could be blamed got blamed. From the facility for having doors with single locks, to the extortion rings and even the devil himself. Despite this being a victimless crime, questions still abound. Who was the complainant? Who was violated? Who was aggressed? Who was the proxy? But we are asking the wrong questions because we have limited our perspective to that of a moral transgression. Hence, this conversation does not seek to interrogate the morality or lack thereof. It rather examines the occurrence purely as an economic transaction. A Consumer Insight survey last month shows 24 per cent or 1.2 million Kenyan adults in relationships have more than one partner. Why this appetite for paramours? The conventional household comprising of a husband, a wife and children, has remained a basic decision unit for studying and planning by various disciplines. However, there has been little or no science applied on decisions made by these household members on their transactions with other non-household members. This is because there is a presumption that the conventional household members espouse the same values. As we shall soon see, value in this discourse is not synonymous with mores. It is the hierarchical order of choice in the context of scarcity. The principle of praxeology recognises human beings as rational, we have unlimited wants, but finite means to satisfy them. This is called scarcity. It inevitably means there are things we forego in exchange for the things that give us more desirable conditions. To make that choice, we do an instinctive ordinal ranking of our needs. And the choices we make, inherently illustrate the things we value more than others. This degree of personal satisfaction can only be judged by the individual himself. No other external person or institution has the capacity to make this determination. The attempt to do so, turns us into moral cops where we project our preferences on others. Economics contemplates two kinds of value: One, value in use which denotes the utility or power of satisfaction that consuming a commodity has; and two, value in exchange, which refers to what a commodity fetches in the market. The commodities with the greatest value in use are also widely, readily available, and are often inexpensive. Consider water. It is easily obtainable, highly useful for survival, and not very costly. On the other hand, diamonds are scarce, hard to find and contribute very little to our survival, yet they are very expensive. This is known as the diamond-water paradox, according to economist Adam Smith. It is common sense that for a marriage to survive, one needs the active presence of a spouse. Ironically, this presence is also what makes the spouse readily available to spend time with. Inadvertently this drives their value down. Conversely, time spent with paramours is scarce and not essential for the survival of a marriage. Yet their acquisition and maintenance costs a lot more. The reason we questioned why a deputy governor would jeopardise his job, shame his wife and disgrace his constituents is an intellectual error. In a free market society, factors of production — labour, land, capital and entrepreneurship — are privately owned. This includes yourself as a form of labour or as an entrepreneur. On the contrary, in socialist forms of governance, factors of production are communally owned. The private owners of goods choose whether they will consume them or have them consumed by others. This choice is absent in communally owned goods. Whether to operate as a free market or a centrally planned economy cannot be an individual’s decision. It is a collective choice. In this country, we have chosen the path of private property ownership. This is why it beats all logic why individuals not involved in the deputy governor’s transaction appropriated to themselves the moral authority and unilaterally decided that the rules of private property ownership did not apply to them. They instead exerted the conduct of communally owned goods, where the rights and access to, and control of property, are held by the community. And as a result of what they determined was an infraction of communal rules, they proceeded to ‘discipline’ the two parties and capture the chastisement electronically. Was this warranted? No. I submit the case of the deputy governor and the 1.2 million Kenyans who confessed to having paramours, is a classic diamond-water paradox. From this perspective, in respect of the rules of private property ownership, it is an economic error to impute our value of choice on these Kenyans. This is because it is inconceivable for us to comprehend the subjective value they place on their paramours, because this value exists only in their mind and cannot, therefore, be externally imposed on them. So who among you is still willing to cast the first stone?  Adultery is the application of democracy to love – HL Mencken   Mugwe is a political economist