Daniel Moi’s granddaughter on Friday hit out at DP William Ruto for visiting the retired president’s Kabarak home without informing the family. “You cannot just show up at someone’s house unannounced,” Laila Denise said. Ruto flew to Moi’s home on Thursday, but failed to meet him after waiting for three hours. It was not clear if Ruto had an appointment, but sources close to the Moi family say there was none. Moi’s spokesman Lee Njiru confirmed Ruto visited but did not see Moi because the 94-year-old had a session with his doctors. On her Facebook page, Laila said, “There was a protocol fail on the DP’s side, you cannot just show up without prior arrangements. Least forgetting that Moi is still a well-respected statesman.” Quoting philosopher Machiavelli, Laila said Ruto needs to understand nothing is so self-defeating as generosity. She said, “DP, you need to understand that “a prince should guard himself, above all things, against being despised and hated, and generosity leads you to both. It is wiser to have a reputation as a miser, which brings disdain without hatred, than seek a reputation for generosity to incur a name for rapacity, which begets both disdain and hatred’.” Laila urged Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, her uncle, to resolve their differences. “Seek out a different strategy and approach and get rid of sycophancy and people who are capitalising on your rivalry,” she said. “Bear with each other and forgive if any of you has a grievance. Forgive as the Lord forgave you.” The rivalry between Ruto and the Mois intensified in 2006 when the DP backed ODM leader Raila Odinga for President and Moi supported former President Mwai Kibaki for the 2007 polls. Read:Moi's granddaughter hits out at DP Ruto over Kabarak snub Ruto’s rivalry shifted to Moi’s son Gideon. It intensified in the last election when Ruto exchanged bitter words with Gideon as he campaigned for Jubilee candidates in Baringo. Ruto fielded Water CS Simon Chelugui against Gideon. Ruto successfully pushed for Chelugui’s appointment to the Cabinet after Gideon retained his seat. On April 14, Raila visited Moi in Kabarak and was warmly welcomed. That friendly meeting was interpreted as an endorsement of the former PM’s role in the famous handshake, at the very least. A meeting with Moi, to wish him good health, could give a boost to Ruto’s presidential aspirations and his claim to lead the Kalenjins. Ruto and Gideon have trained their eyes on the presidency come the 2022 election. Also See:Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? Click here for the latest political news