Deputy President William Ruto has warned those found culpable of corruption to carry their own cross. Ruto called on all institutions responsible to play their rightful roles in the fight against corruption. “The corrupt should not run to their communities or political parties for protection. We will not sacrifice the progress of Kenya to satisfy the greed of few individuals. This time around they will not get off the hook. They will be held accountable,” the Deputy President said. Read: State official, supplier linked to Sh9bn NYS scam lose bid to block arrest He added that if laws must be changed, or strategies reviewed, it shall be done “until the menace of corruption is arrested. Ruto spoke when he attended the Sunday service at St Simon and Jude Catholic Church in Lanet, Nakuru County. He was accompanied by a section of political leaders from Nakuru County. The political leaders said there is no way abnormally large amounts of money can be deposited or withdrawn from an individual’s account without the banks asking hard questions. Senator Kihika said it was difficult for even businesses to transact in huge amounts without being asked questions. She wondered how corruption cartels managed to transact in hundreds of millions of shillings easily. "It is time serious, swift action was taken against these thieves. This time around it won’t be business as usual,” Kihika said . “These banks appear to be friends of corruption, and tough penalties must be meted against them,” David Gikaria Nakuru Town East MP said. Gikaria said commercial banks found to be embedded and aiding corruption should have their licenses cancelled. “We cannot attain the Big Four Agenda if the theft of public resources continues. Related: Gideon Moi to Uhuru: Crack the whip on NCPB scandal masterminds to save farmers Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu Mp) said there were efforts by some “cartels” and “merchants” who were hell-bent to intimidating anti-corruption MPs. “A thief is a thief. Whether in government or in opposition. Whether big or small. The National Assembly shall not be cowed by cartels and merchants of deceit. It will continue to hold those in power accountable. These thieves must be jailed,” he said The MPs said that they would not be intimidated in playing their oversight role, especially now that the country had been stained by corruption issues. Others present included Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), Charity Kathambi Chepkwony (Njoro), Lemanken Aramat (Narok East), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West) and Nakuru Woman Representative Liza Chelule. Click here for the latest political new