The volume of Ndakaini Dam has risen to 65 per cent and could hit 73 per cent in seven days, officials have said. Dam manager Job Kihamba yesterday said he was optimistic the reservoir will soon be filled. The water level remained unusually low, at 30 per cent last month, despite heavy rain. Kihamba attributed the low levels to the drying up of rivers feeding the dam. “The drought in part of 2016 and 2017 depleted the aquifers that recharge the rivers that feed the dam,” Kihamba explained. The rains had to fill the aquifers for increased river flows. “The rains have been heavy but there was no water in the rivers. It was a big dilemma,” he said. RELIEF Kihamba said a recharge of the aquifers has allowed rivers to freely flow into the dam. “We expect water levels to rise to 73 per cent if the rains continue for the next seven days,” he said. The announcement will come as relief to Nairobi residents who have had to contend with rationing. The dam supplies more than 80 per cent of Nairobi’s water consumption. The Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NCWSC) said rationing will persist until the volume of the dam rises. Last month, the Athi Water Services Board said they were worried about slow increase in volume. A task force was formed to look into what seemed like mysteriously low levels. There were conspiracy reports about cartels siphoning water but these have not been proved. The team will present its report after 60 days. Kihamba said the water quality was good because it has been purified by forests. The low volume had initially been linked to the ongoing construction of the Sh6.8 billion Northern Collector Tunnel. The tunnel is only 35 per cent complete. The tunnel has faced opposition from some Murang’a residents and opposition politicians. They said the project would deplete underground water sources, turn the region into a desert. Ndakaini Dam can store 70 million cubic metres at full capacity. It is 2,041 metres above sea level and 65 metres deep. It produces 430,000 cubic metres daily, 84 per cent Nairobi’s supply. NO RAIN IN HIGHLANDS Ndakaini has a 75-square-kilometre catchment area. It includes Kimakia and Gatare forests in the Aberdares. Thika, Githika and Kayuyu rives feed the dam. Last month, Athi Water Services Board acting CEO Michael Thuita said heavy rains were pounding lowlands and not highlands with the Ndakaini catchment areas. “The rain in Nairobi is not in the Aberdares, hence, little water in the dam. The water levels in all the rivers from Aberdare have not increased,” Thuita told the Star.