Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has defended the move to reduce number of bodyguards attached to VIPs. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's bodyguards were last week reduced from 15 to four. Matiang'i said the move was not political. “No county government official needs 26 police officers to guard them, let alone the governor. A country like ours can’t afford that. It's sheer madness to move a whole police station to your office,” Matiangi said. Sonko was left with 5 bodyguards down from 26 who used to guard them. Read: You can't have 26 police bodyguards, Matiang'i tells Sonko The ministry wants to recall 5,000 police officers attached to VIPs in a rationalisation programme. Matiang'i said most of the bodyguards were irregularly seconded to the state officers. Governors are supposed to have a maximum of four bodyguards. Most of them have more. Those targeted in the rationalization are not only county chiefs, but also senators, members of national assembly, parastatal heads and other VIPS. Senators will be left with one bodyguard and armed driver. The recalled officers are earmarked to be deployed on general duties. Matiang'i spoke in Nairobi during the handover ceremony of IPOA's inaugural commissioners who term expired yesterday. He called for partnership in helping address policing challenges. Noordin Haji the Director of Public Prosecution who spoke at the event said police execesses and extrajudicial killings had no room in democratic societies, pledging to work with the IPOA in prosecuting those culpable. Kennedy Ogeto the solicitor general on his part said extrajudicial killings, impunity, corruption and prevalent human rights abuses call for a new strategy in tackling them. He said the AG's office was open to suggestion and views on how to strengthen IPOA so as it can tackle the vices. "AG is committed to holding those culpable to account. We take the position that innocent taxpayers cannot be forced to shoulder the burden of reckless public officers," he said. Read: Sonko left with two bodyguards after 13 withdrawn Click here for the latest political news