The Senate Committee on Labour and Social Welfare has summoned the Kenya Film Classification Board shed more light on proposals to charge film makers licensing fees. In an advert carried in the local dailies, the board said the new regulations are aimed at arresting film makers who do not have licences, a move that has been viewed to make life harder for creators. Senator Johnson Sakaja, who chairs the Labour and Social Welfare Committee, said the proposal is backward hence shall be repealed. "This is such a backward law. We shall repeal it. The creative industry is a much needed economic frontier for job creation." "Such backward legislation is an unnecessary encumbrance," he told the Star on Tuesday. Under the proposal, it is illegal to create any film meant for public exhibition without a film licence from the board. The board says that any person found guilty of this offence contravenes the law and shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh100,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or both. Kenyans on Twitter opposed the charges saying the films regulator is stretching its mandate beyond the allowable limits. Jamlick Kyallo said: "KFCB cannot guide, license or ban content that appears on a platform (s) that the Communications Act and the requisite institutions do not license. YouTube/Facebook and Instagram have their own rules and policies! #DisbandKFCB." AnalyticaKE said: "Good luck securing any conviction!" PSCU director of digital Dennis Itumbi said: "KFCB does not charge for YouTube at all or social media. The only area where the Board deals with social media is about content monitoring and when there is gross content that exposes children to harmful content." This contradicted a tweet KFCB posted earlier saying: "As long as the intention public distribution/exhibition, a license is mandatory." "Where the offence is committed by a company or other corporate bodes or of persons, every person charged with, or concerned or acting in the control or management shall be guilty and liable to the penalties in the Film and Stage Plays Act." The board has issued a 14-day notice to all offenders and defaulters to comply with the provision of the Act after which action will be taken. Section 5 (1) of the Films and Stage Plays Act Chapter 222: applications for filming licences are made to the licensing officer and accompanied by a full description of the scenes in the entire film.
Dr. @EzekielMutua, @moscakenya, @ConsumersKenya, @KenyaActors, @Actors_co_ke pic.twitter.com/nY10fv403b Click here for the latest political news 