The government says it will demolish houses in Embu’s Dallas Estate, because they were built on wetlands. Water Resources Management Authority (Warma) regional manager for Tana Catchment Area Bernard Omuya on Friday said the houses are not safe for habitation. Floods have displaced tens of families in the estate. Houses were half submerged. Omuya said landlords encroached on the wetland and put up houses. “We gave them a notice to demolish the houses but they ignored it. The authority will pull the structures down,” Omuya said. “It’s illegal to build a structure on a wetland. We’re advising tenants to move to safer estates.” Omuya warned that more houses could be swamped due to heavy rain. “The ground is already saturated and the water has no exit. That is dangerous,” he said. He told landlords to keep their buildings at least 30 metres away from wetlands, or risk having them demolished at their own costs. Omuya said the authority had contacted the Interior ministry over the encroachment and would soon hold public barazas to educate residents. He also warned residents against draining the wetland. “Don’t even dump rubbish in the water,” he said. Last month, MPs blamed contradictory laws for the wanton destruction of wetlands. The MPs also said the mandate of the National Environment Management Authority (Nema) was overbroad, making it easy for private developers to circumvent the law.  TIME BOMB The Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources said food and water security has been threatened by encroachment on wetlands. “We’re sitting on a time bomb. Something must be done,” Kasipul Kabondo MP Charles Were said. He spoke during a meeting with Environment Chief Administrative Secretary Mohamed Elmi at County Hall in Nairobi. Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma asked whether there were laws protecting wetlands and riparian lands. Elmi cited the Water Act, 2002, Water Resource Management Act 2007, Environment Management and Coordination Regulations of 2006, among others. MPs pointed out contradictions among the laws. For instance, the Environment Management Coordination Regulations of 2006 puts at six metres the recommended minimum distance for construction from a river, and a maximum of 30 metres from the high water mark. The Agriculture Act puts it at a minimum of two metres. The MPs asked Nema to explain how private developers got approvals to put up apartments, some of which lie on riparian lands and wetlands.