The National Land Commission lost its powers to probe historical land injustices last year, a judge has ruled. The judgement leaves pending disputes over property worth billions of shillings in limbo. NLC is headed by Mohammad Swazuri. High Court judge Samson Okong’o ruled the lapse of NLC’s five-year window for review of grants and land transfers relating to public land not only barred the agency from receiving fresh complaints, but also blocked it from concluding pending disputes before it. Section 14 of the NLC Act allowed the agency to probe grants and dispositions (transfers) of public land either on its own motion or upon a complaint, but only limited that authority to five years from May 2, 2012. Must read : Historical land injustices blamed for chaos in region Justice Okong’o’s decision was in response to the agency’s claim Section 14 of the NLC Act allows it to proceed with determination of a dispute between a Kiambu-based farmers society and five individuals over a 900-acre piece of land worth over Sh100 billion. “I am of the view that the NLC cannot purport to review any grant or disposition of public land after the expiry of its mandate under Section 14 of the Act, whether such review is pursuant to a new complaint or a complaint that was pending as at the time its mandate expired unless Parliament extends its mandate under that section of Act,” the judge ruled.  PENDING “However, until the extension is granted by Parliament, the NLC must lay down its tools with regard to the exercise of the powers that were granted to it under the said section of the Act. For the foregoing reasons, I disagree with the advocate for the NLC that the NLC can continue to process the complaints over grants and disposition of public land that were pending before it after the lapse of its review mandate.” Justice Okong’o’s ruling followed an application by Samuel Githegi, Grace Muthegi and Margaret Nyokabi alongside the executors of the estate of Mary Gakunju (Ruth Wanjiku, Esther Njeri and Paul Ndung’u). The applicants are entangled in a dispute with Kasarini Co-operative Society and Kasarini Self-Help Group which claim to be the original owners. The two groups claim the five families kicked them out of the land after forging documents from the original Kasarini Farmers Co-operative Society which held the land. Aside from suing in 2009 and 2013, the Kasarini Farmers Co-operative Society also filed a complaing with the NLC in 2016. But the five individuals accused of grabbing the land filed an application arguing that the NLC has no authority to probe a land matter already before the High Court. Justice Okong’o ruled that the NLC had authority to probe how the five individuals acquired the land, but not to review the ownership documents while there was still a pending court case. Also read  : NLC received 111 claims of historical land injustices from 2016 - Swazuri The judge’s ruling could affect several pieces of land under investigation by the NLC. Among the many pending disputes before the NLC is a fight over a 0.8 acre piece of land in Upper Hill between the family of former Head of Civil Service Joseph Leting, and the Kenya Railways pension scheme. Click here for the latest political news