Former Sofapaka and Ugandan holding midfielder Feni Ali has expressed his hopes of returning to Kenyan football in the forthcoming June transfer window. Ali was controversially released by Sofapaka a day to the closure of December-January transfer window, rendering him club-less for six months but he has since opened up on his return to Kenyan football once the window opens. The talented tackler joined Sofapaka in June 2017 from Uganda Revenue Authority and managed to get five goals and eight assists but left the club in January after his contract with ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ was terminated under unclear circumstances. Having impressed in the six months he donned in the Sofapaka Jersey, Ali tearfully left the club after declining to be loaned to Bandari to pave way for Tanzanian Abdulaziz Makame, who caught the eyes of scouts in last year’s Cecafa Senior Challenge in December. With the Kenyan football statues providing five slots for foreigners, Ali was meant to be sacrificed in favour of Makame but the decision to oppose the loan move to Bandari ignited a disagreement with his bosses hence parted ways with the 2009 league winners. In what seemed a busy transfer window for Sofapaka, another Ugandan Jonathan Mugabi was released and his slot taken by Burundian Musa Oumar but Makame’s deal hit a snag in the final hours of the transfer period with Ali’s contract already cut. Despite leaving Kenya a bitter man, he expressed hopes of returning to Kenya to pursue his dream of lifting the Kenyan Premier League. “I am hoping to get a club in Kenya and chase my dream of winning the KPL title. I am ready to sign for any club save for Sofapaka who handled me in a very unprofessional manner in January.” Feni disclosed that he has been training with Ugandan-based Lugazi United to keep fit since he was out of competitive football. “Immediately I left Sofapaka in January, I joined Lugazi United which plays in the second tier although in their training sessions for the purposes of remaining fit. I am in good shape—both physically and mentally— and ready to return to competitive football in June.” While it was widely expected that Ali would rejoin URA, which is currently under the tutelage of former Sofapaka boss Sam Ssimbwa, the midfielder said he was not keen to ply his trade in the Ugandan league as he prefers KPL which he termed as better and more competitive. ”I have been talking to Ssimbwa since he is the one who brought me to Kenya and Sofapaka but I am not interested in playing in the Ugandan league. I have also received offers from Ugandan clubs but I prefer KPL which is more competitive and organized. I also feel playing in Kenya will boost my chances of receiving a call to the national team, Cranes.”