Former Governors Julius Malombe and Samuel Ragwa did not institute and implement projects properly during their tenure, a survey report by an NGO has said. “The survey established county governments have implemented both economic and social projects but in two counties — Kitui and Tharaka Nithi. The majority of these projects are not serving the citizens because of varied reasons,” said the survey commissioned by Kitui-based Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education. The report released yesterday was a after as study conducted in Kitui, Makueni, Tharaka Nithi and Machakos counties all in the former Eastern province with a total population of 3.6 million people. Four thousand respondents participated in the survey, which showed devolution is working in Makueni. The baseline survey’s objective was to establish the achievements made in actualising devolution as enshrined in the Constitution after the first five years of implementation by the devolved units. It was meant to assess how well residents communicate and get feedback from the county governments, establish the effectiveness of the citizen’s participation in the county and whether the counties have implemented projects or offered services which benefit the people. The study report gave Makueni whose governor Kivutha Kibwana was rewarded with a second term in the last August 8, 2017 general election as a towering success. “Over 50 per cent of the respondents in Makueni, Machakos and Kitui said they talk to their county governments. In Makueni, 70 per cent said the got satisfactory feedback from their county government. The other counties scored 50 per cent and below. "Upon probing further from Civil Society Organizations and county government officials, Makueni had developed a comprehensive model of citizen participation,” said the report. The study said almost half of the respondents in Makueni and Machakos indicated their acceptance to their county governments performance, while less than 40 per cent in Kitui and only 15 per cent in Tharaka Nithi were satisfied. Some of the common malpractices that were noted included corruption and manipulation of project implementation, from identification, misplaced priorities, overpricing, asarding of tenders and poor workmanship. Click here for the latest political news