While taking the lead from the President, DP William Ruto apologised to Kenyans on Wednesday, for divisive politics during last year's elections. Uhuru asked for forgiveness at Parliament earlier in the day while delivering his State of the Nation speech. He noted that in that troubled season, there were consequences such as "lives lost, property destroyed and unity sapped". The President set an example by reaching out to Embakasi MP Babu Owino for a hand shake. He said every leader must do the same and preach gentle speaking, constructive criticism, respect for dissent and competition as well as civilised collaboration. Read: Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino After the address, Ruto took to Twitter with his apology. "In keeping with [Uhuru's] statement, l unreservedly apologise to anyone I have offended or hurt in any way by what I have said or done at any time. Find it in your heart to forgive me. I have forgiven all those who wronged me. Let's embark on building the bridges of friendship and unity." On Twitter, activist Boniface Mwangi wrote: "You sued me, Deputy President, Withdraw the case and I shall withdraw my counter claim. I have forgiven you for calling me names." The DP sued the activist in 2016 after he suggested he had a hand in the mysterious killing of businessman Jacob Juma. Read: Boniface Mwangi yet to respond to DP Ruto’s defamation suit In that spirit of reconciliation, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang and Woman Representative Gladys Wanga publicly apologised for heckling and disrupting the President during his 2016 State of the Nation Address. "[That] was a humbling statement by [Uhuru]. My conscience can now allow me to embrace the President. I apologise for disrupting the State of the Nation address two years ago," Kajwang said. Wanga said: "This is a time to ask for forgiveness. I have forgiven my President for what offended me and drove me to do what I did. I also ask the President to find it in his heart to forgive me." Kajwang and Wanga were among nine Cord MPs who disrupted Uhuru as he delivered his speech. The nine were ejected from the House after they turned the chambers into a football pitch by blowing whistles immediately Uhuru rose to address the special joint sitting of the House. Details: [VIDEO] Nine Cord MPs blow whistles, thrown out as Uhuru speaks Babu said his 'handshake' with Uhuru showed his problems with him were not personal. "Shaking hands with the President is a good move to show that there has never been bad blood between us. It was just an ideological difference, nothing personal." He said the gesture must extend to the grassroots where the most division was preached. Also Read: We have no plan to disrupt Uhuru's State of the Nation address, says Nasa MPs After the prolonged polls season, Uhuru was finally sworn-in for this second and final term at State House on November 28, 2017. On March 9, he and Raila shocked the world with a decision to work together for the sake of national healing, reconciliation, peace, unity and development. In his speech, the President praised Raila for his statesmanship. Details: [State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news