North Korea said it may reconsider holding a summit with the United States if Washington continues to unilaterally insist on North Korea giving up its nuclear programme, the North's state media said on Wednesday. Citing first vice minister of foreign affairs Kim Kye Gwan, North Korea's central news agency also said the fate of the US-North Korea summit as well as bilateral relations "would be clear" if Washington speaks of a Libya-style denuclearisation for the North. The statement added US President Donald Trump would remain as a "failed president" if he follows in the steps of his predecessors. North Korea also denounced the US-South
Korean military exercises as a provocation and calling off
high-level talks with Seoul. A report on North Korea's official KCNA angrily attacked the
"Max Thunder" air combat drills, which it said involved US
stealth fighters and B-52 bombers, and appeared to mark a break
in months of warming ties between North and South Korea and
between Pyongyang and Washington. The "Max Thunder" drills, aimed at "boosting the capability
of pilots", would go on as planned and were not aimed at
attacking a third party, the South's defence ministry said. Any cancellation of the June 12 summit in Singapore, the
first meeting between a serving US president and a North
Korean leader, would deal a major blow to Trump’s efforts to
score the biggest diplomatic achievement of his presidency. Trump has raised expectations for a successful meeting even
as many analysts have been sceptical of the chances of bridging
the gap due to questions about North Korea's willingness to give
up a nuclear arsenal that it says can hit the United States. The KCNA report called the air drills a "provocation" that
went against the trend of warming ties. "This exercise, targeting us, which is being carried out
across South Korea, is a flagrant challenge to the Panmunjom
Declaration and an intentional military provocation running
counter to the positive political development on the Korean
Peninsula," KCNA said, referring to a joint statement from an
April 27 inter-Korea summit. "The United States will also have to undertake careful
deliberations about the fate of the planned North Korea-US
summit in light of this provocative military ruckus jointly
conducted with the South Korean authorities," KCNA said. WARMING TIES A Trump-Kim summit until recently had looked impossible
given the insults and threats the two leaders exchanged last
year over North Korea's development of nuclear missiles capable
of hitting the United States. "Kim Jong Un had said previously that he understands the
need and the utility of the United States and the Republic of
Korea continuing in its joint exercises," US State Department
spokeswoman Heather Nauert told a briefing. "We have not heard anything from that government or the
government of South Korea to indicate that we would not continue
conducting these exercises or that we would not continue
planning for our meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong Un
next month," she said. White House spokeswoman Sarah Sanders said the United States
would examine the North Korean statement "and continue to
coordinate closely with our allies". South Korea's National Security Office head Chung Eui-yong
said after meeting Kim in early March that the North Korean
leader understood that "routine" joint military exercises
between South Korea and the United States would continue in
spite of warming ties. That was widely considered to be a major North Korea
concession, although Pyongyang never publicly withdrew its
long-standing demand for an end to the drills. Kim's latest move could be aimed at testing Trump's
willingness to make concessions ahead of the summit, which is
due to be preceded by a visit to Washington next week by South
Korean President Moon Jae-in. A US government expert on North Korea said Kim may also be
trying to gauge whether Trump is willing to walk away from the
meeting that has prompted the president's supporters to suggest
he deserves to win a Nobel Peace Prize. Any acquiescence by Trump to a North Korean demand for a
halt to joint drills would likely undermine South Korean and
Japanese trust in his commitment to their security. Kim has also
shown a desire to win international approval for his diplomatic
outreach, and any sign that he is sabotaging the talks could
damage this effort. SUSPENDED NORTH-SOUTH MEETING KCNA said North Korea was suspending a ministerial-level
North-South meeting, which had been due to be held on Wednesday
to focus on plans to implement the inter-Korea summit
declaration, including promises to formally end the 1950-53
Korean War and pursue "complete denuclearisation". "The US should make efforts to create an atmosphere for
mutual respect and confidence before dialogue, not resorting to
a foolish farce that may reverse the good trend created with
much effort," it said. South Korea said the North's decision to unilaterally
postpone the talks was "regrettable". "Such action of the North is inconsistent with the
fundamental spirit and purpose of the Panmunjeom Declaration
agreed by the South and North leaders on April 27," the South's
Unification Ministry spokesman Baik Tae-hyun said. The Pentagon said the May 14-25 "Max Thunder" exercises were
routine and defensive in nature. A spokesman said the exercises
would take place at Gwangju air base and would be "at a scale
similar to that of the previous years". Last year, Max Thunder involved about 1,500 US and South
Korean personnel flying aircraft including F-16 fighter jets,
according to a US Air Force website. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Sunday the
United States would agree to lift sanctions on North Korea if it
agreed to completely dismantle its nuclear weapons programme, a
move he said would create economic prosperity that would rival
that of South Korea. North Korea said on Saturday it would dismantle its nuclear
bomb test site some time between May 23 and May 25 to uphold its
pledge to cease tests. Joshua Pollack, of the Middlebury Institute of International
Studies in California, said Pyongyang appeared irritated by the
US administration's vow to maintain sanctions in spite of
North Korean concessions. "The North Koreans want a change in tone from the US, and
at least so far, they're not hearing one," he said. A South Korean presidential adviser warned on Tuesday that
an incremental North Korean approach to denuclearisation would
not be acceptable to Trump or the South Korean public. Bonnie Glaser, of Washington's Center for Strategic and
International Studies think tank, said Kim may be being
influenced by Chinese President Xi Jinping after two recent
meetings with the Chinese leader, who has advocated a freeze in
North Korea's nuclear programme in return for a freeze in
US-South Korean drills. "The fact this issue is back on the table suggests Xi
Jinping may have raised it with Kim, and that Kim is carrying
Xi’s water," she said. Click here for the latest political news