Gideon Moi has a family name that thrusts him into
the national politics. His father having led this country for 24 years as
President, and several years as vice President, he is measured in deeds and
words. These traits and qualities that are not very welcomed in the rugged Kenyan
political terrain. His presidential candidature will eventually come but not in 2022. In his Rift Valley backyard, he has to contend with
William Ruto's political maneuvers. This duel presents a real headache he has
to circumvent before he can appeal to other regions. Seemingly none is ready to
blink or offer an olive branch to the other. Young Moi boasts of a big financial muscle which Ruto
is working around the clock to possess if all the businesses and assets being
reported in his name are anything to go by. But politics is about negotiating skills and Gideon
isn't as endowed with this as Ruto is,  even though it takes long for people to
trust his word. Gideon would be at a vantage position if he chose to
run as someone else's DP, learn the ropes for ten years, and ultimately run for
President. Sadly, the seat of DP in Kenya seems so jinxed that it has become
impossible for one to rise from it to succeed the boss. Ruto took advantage of his trial at the ICC in 2013
to rally support in his backyard out of sympathy. The narrative worked. A similar scenario can't play out again. Gideon is
out to outsmart Ruto and his scheme seems to be coalescing around President
Uhuru Kenyatta's axis. Kenyatta has since struck a working formula with Odinga. Anyone against this movement becomes public enemy. It
is believed  Uhuru and Ruto's relationship has since thawed, since the
latter seems disinterested in the new found alliance with Odinga, although he has not said so
publicly. Gideon has moved quickly to embrace this agenda,
leaving Ruto as the odd one out. The handshake has the potential to diminish Ruto's
political career and build Gideon's. This will be clearer when the country chooses
to go for the referendum and Ruto finds himself in the unpopular "No
campaign" bandwagon again. Click here for the latest political news