Despite running short in the recently concluded London Marathon, Olympic champion Eliud Kipchoge has not given up on his push to set a new world record in the 42km race. After two failed attempts in Berlin last year and recently in London, the three-time London Marathon champion, said he is hopeful of lowering the world mark soon. “I am hopeful that in the near future, I will break the record. I have come close in the recent past and I have not given up hope. I believe it’s just a matter of time,” he added. Kipchoge clocked 2:04:17 to win he London Marathon a fortnight ago and in Berlin last September, he clocked 2:03:32 to win the event. He also ran under two hours in the Nike-sponsored breaking 2 race in Monza, Italy, where he clocked 2:00:25 in May last year. Speaking during a breakfast meeting to hosted by Isuzu East Africa to celebrate his feat, Kipchoge said he was delighted to have won the London event. “I am extremely grateful to be among friends and family as we celebrate another win for our great country. It has been my goal to run the marathon in less than two hours, but due to the prevailing weather conditions, it was not possible this time around,” observed Kipchoge. He added: “However, as I stated before the race, I was in London to run a beautiful race, and indeed, it was a beautiful finish. I promise that my team and I will keep training, working hard and aiming to break the world record. Our ultimate goal is to fly the Kenyan flag to even greater heights of victory.” Kipchoge was, however, non-committal on his next marathon destination. “I have not committed myself to any at the short term and we will plan with my team where I am running next,” added Kipchoge. On whether a Kenyan can break the world record in the event, Kipchoge said: “ As a country, we have good athletes who can break the record and many a times we have risen to the occasion.” Kipchoge has won 10 out of the 11 marathons since turning to road racing in 2013 and says he is hopeful of defending his Olympic marathon crown in two years time in Tokyo. Isuzu East Africa managing director, Rita Kavashe, reiterated the company’s promise to gift Kipchoge a luxury Isuzu Dmax when he breaks the world record at any future race, still stands. Kipchoge was signed on for a partnership as it’s Isuzu Dmax brand ambassador. The Sh7 million deal saw Kipchoge receive an Isuzu Dmax luxury double cab pick-up for personal use and training purposes.