Chelsea Vs Man United, Today 7:15pm, My Prediction: Blues...1 Red Devils.....2 Haiya! There is an FA Cup final that needs to happen and it involves these two teams. What a disturbingly dull climax we had last weekend as the Premier League season came to an end. Manchester United had a lacklustre performance against Watford though they came out with a boring 1-0 victory; that really meant nothing in the scale of things; while Chelsea simply collapsed on the pitch. I’m not sure whether manager Antonio Conte was so confident that Liverpool wouldn’t slip that he didn’t even make an effort to really finish 4th. Their 3-0 loss at St James’ Park was disgusting and disappointing. I sort of knew Newcastle would win but I didn’t think they would thrash Chelsea. Winning the FA Cup for them would restore some dignity to a team and a manager, who have been sub-standard all season but I think it will be too little, too late. This side has lost any form of team work or respect in their boss and they cannot go into a final with that attitude. On the flip side, even though Jose Mourinho has had his down moments this season, he has a squad that isn’t embarrassed to fight for second best. Second in the league and the second most valuable piece of silverware in English club football. I think the Red Devils have more hunger to succeed in every game, regardless of whether it is a consolation prize or not and for now, they have much better camaraderie within the squad than Chelsea do. It’s a final so both teams have the quality to win this but the mental will power definitely sits in the ‘Red Corner’. I think this game will be an anticlimax in terms of entertainment but that’s what United are, aren’t they? A dull but effective side.  Gor Mahia Vs Sofapaka, Tomorrow 4:15pm, My Prediction: K’ogalo 1 Batoto Ba Mungu..2 Despite their packed fixture schedule, Gor Mahia are doing extremely well in the league. They are top of the Kenyan Premier League with three games in hand so it can’t get better than that for them. But I do fear that the boys will begin to suffer from fatigue and start getting injuries because their schedule has been tight. Last weekend, they managed to hold Hull City youth in a friendly and got a goal-less draw against USM Alger in the CAF Confederations Cup but they needed to win this one. They played a great open game but their finishing was a big problem. They are unbeaten in the league and if they hadn’t played mid-week, I would have given them this game hands down. But I think the number of games they’ve been involved in will begin to take it’s toll especially against a Sofapaka side that’s hanging in there. Just like Gor, they have won seven matches this term and lost five. They have won their last two matches though against Vihiga United and Zoo FC. Striker Stephen Waruru seems to be the man leading the Batoto Ba Mungu and hopefully, he will do the same against Sirkal today. I actually don’t think this will be an easy game for Gor given their fatigue. If the referee is allowed to do his job without intimidation, the Central African owned team will carry the day.