Kenyan energy firms yesterday criticised what they call discriminatory standards that lock them out of tenders for the Big Four and other development initiatives. The Kenya Energy Sector Citizen Contractors Association (Kescca) said most conditions were meant to exclude local companies and favour foreign firms. The association has written to President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and power generation and distribution companies over their concerns. In a press statement, the lobby criticised the high capital turnover requirement set for firms bidding for state tenders. The statement was signed by chairman Steven Kigera. The lobby said tender regulations require that at least 40 per cent of contracts are awarded to Kenyan companies. Kescca said they want all tenders with a value of less than Sh3 billion awarded to local contractors. The lobby represents ARM Engineering Co Ltd, Empower Installation Contractors, Powergen Technologies, Power Group Technologies, Magnate Ventures, Etrade, Histoto, Neo Electric and Ezeetec. “We have learnt that foreign companies are being awarded projects for medium and low-voltage distribution networks which Kenyan companies have the capacity to execute,” the statement said. It said the government should not award projects to foreigners, yet Kenya Power has sufficient local capacity. “The argument that they are donor-funded doesn’t hold water because Kenyans will eventually pay the loans,” the lobby said.” Kescca warned that development targets in Vision 2030 and the Big Four agenda could be missed if the trend continued. Awarding tenders to foreigners meant 95 per cent of profits was repatriated overseas,the lobby said. “We are challenging negotiators at the Treasury and the Ministry of Energy to re-look at the caveats that come with donor funding. Most of them are not benefi cial to the country because they do not promote local industries,” it said. The lobby accused foreign companies of bringing in workers under the pretext that there’s a lack of skills in Kenya. “For example, we have more than 300 foreign workers on the Turkana-Suswa line. They were even more on the SGR,” it said. Kescca said more than 1,200 graduate engineers and another 600 graduating from tertiary institutions enter the job market every year. Only a small fraction can be absorbed into formal sectors like Kenya Power, KenGen, the Rural Electrification Authority, Kenya Pipeline and Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited. The lobby wants to meet Energy CS Charles Keter and Treasury CS Henry Rotich.