Was Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko aware of a plot to humiliate
him during the National Tree Planting day at Moi Forces Academy in Nairobi on
Saturday? Well, Corridors has been told that Sonko, known to hit people below
the belt, was aware and waited eagerly to embarrass the masterminds. It is said
Sonko's lieutenants in Jubilee hinted to him that some State House operatives
have been angry with him following the exit of his deputy, Polycarp Igathe.
Sonko who is not best of friends with Environment CS Keriako Tobiko shocked
many, including plotters of his intended humiliation, when he defied the plot
and took the mic to address the meeting. President Uhuru Kenyatta and deputy
William Ruto were at some point seen whispering to each other as Sonko
undressed his nemesis. ********* All is not well with a county boss in the
Rift Valley. Word has it that the county residents are very disappointed and
wondering why the youthful governor has reneged on his promising manifesto so
soon after taking office. Corridors has been told that the county boss is
obsessed with trappings of power unlike before when he was renowned for humility.
That trait is what endeared him to the electorate and enabled him to defeat his
rival with a landslide. Locals, especially the youth, are now grumbling about
being let down by their age-mate who has not lived up to his promise to
prioritize their issues. They are yearning for 2022 to send him home. ****** Who is stealing a first-time MP's phone
almost every fortnight? The MP from western Kenya has surprised his colleagues
with the rate at which he is losing his cell phones. The MP who is yet to get the
attention of the Speaker since his election last year hardly keeps a phone for
two weeks. Corridors overheard two legislators wondering aloud how their
colleague is always explaining circumstances under which he lost the previous
phone, which they say happens almost every two weeks. Unconvinced, they are now
trying to establish where he spends his leisure time. ****** Some elevated government officials
recently surprised Parliament orderlies. A little bird whispers to Corridors
that the officials were heard lamenting about the rigorous grilling a parliamentary
committee had subjected them to. The officials who spent more than five hours
of intensive interrogation on their ministry expenditures are said to have come
out of the meeting shaking their heads. They regretted why they accepted to
support President Uhuru Kenyatta. One official was heard telling his colleague
that he never knew the committee grilling was that rigorous for top ministry
officials explaining expenditures. Click here for the latest political news 