Approximately 300-500 people are admitted every month in Kenyan hospitals due to snake bites, a survey carried out by an NGO has shown. Some 15-25 people lose their lives every day at different degrees, while over 100 are amputated, causing them permanent disabilities. This is according to research by the Snake Bite Rescue Rehabilitation and Research Centre Kenya (Snabirc). Addressing the media in Kabarnet town, Baringo county, on Tuesday, organisation founder Dr Winnie Bore said snakebites are a serious public health problem that mostly affect people in dry areas, especially in Baringo, Eastern and North Eastern parts of Kenya. Dr Bore said the organisation has worked around the five counties since 2015. "The menace of snakebites has not been taken seriously by the government, and people are really suffering on the ground, especially at the snakebite hotspots," she said. The doctor estimated that 33.3 per cent of patients lose their lives and the rest become disabled at different degrees, with approximately 5 per cent requiring amputation. A spot check by Snabirc revealed that availability of anti-venom has been a big problem in many areas, and the drugs miss out in most health facilities. In the few available facilities, Dr Bore said the drugs' potency towards the snake species found in the particular geographical area is not guaranteed. Moreover, victims struggle to reach treatment centres, having to travel 30-50km to get to a well-equipped facility. "Most bites occur at night, and getting quick transport to the health facility is not easy, bearing in mind that snake venom can cause death in 15 minutes to half an hour, if treatment is not promptly initiated," she said, adding that the government is yet to lay up structured plans to carry out prevention activities to reduce the cases of snakebites. Dr Bore said total compensation for snakebites currently stands at Sh4.5 billion in Kenya. The Kenya Wildlife Service is yet to pay the accrued amount, blaming it on lack of funds to pay the huge claims. "It is unfortunate that there is a proposed parliamentary bill to remove snakebites from the list of compensation," Dr Bore said. She said the National Assembly Committee on Environment and Natural Resources should have sought consultations before pushing for this bill, which will affect the lives of many people. Baringo KWS warden Dickson Too blamed delays in compensation on late reporting of cases. Governor Stanley Kiptis said the county is committed to fighting the disaster. He said his administration will procure more anti-snake venom drugs and supply to every health facility across the county.