Our meeting time is at 7am. I fight the Saturday morning sleep and I am within Mathare a few minutes to time. Eric Omwanda directs me on where I should wait. “I have sent someone to pick you up, he should be there in less than 15 minutes,” he says on the phone. As I patiently wait at the Depot playground, children play in pairs with homemade footballs. Ten minutes into the wait, a boy, not even in his teens yet, walks straight to me and says he has come for me. I am to follow the young man in the valleys of Mathare. He will be my security. It is worrying but I do. We walk for more than 10 minutes before getting to where Eric is. It felt like a whole day’s walk. We find him training a team of boys. “Sorry I had to send him; I couldn’t have left all of them,” he explains. When Eric Omwanda and James Ndung’u joined hands to form the Mathare Foundation five years ago, they did not know how much they could do for the slum. Eric, the brainchild of the foundation, spent a lot of time convincing Ndung’u to partner with him for the project. “I knew what I wanted but I could not get into it alone, and so many people had declined to come on board for fear of the unknown,” Eric says. Young and financially challenged, the two took the bold step and registered the foundation in 2013. “To be honest, we were very broke. We didn’t know how or where we would end up, but we had the zeal,” Eric says.  SAFETY NET The foundation has today helped more than 300 children in Mathare slum, and looking back,  the two wish they had started the initiative earlier. With the incredible risk of children and teens from Mathare getting  unplanned pregnancies, involvement in drugs and alcohol, crime, prostitution and gangs, Mathare foundation came up with different activities to reduce such occurrences. The foundation, whose office is based within the slum, provides educational programmes and mentorship for disadvantaged children and youths. “Through hands-on training and technical workshops in photography, performing arts, sports and school programmes, boys and girls from Mathare can build confidence through learning new skills, discovering opportunities for income generation, and envision and plot a course for future career opportunities in media and the arts,” Eric says.  LABOUR OF LOVE Eric, who was born and bred in Mathare, was involved in grassroots volunteering since he was 11. “I started volunteering in slum activities at a young age,” he says. He became a member of different slum organisations and rose to being the chairman of Mathare Youth and Sports Organisation (Mysa). “It was here that I got involved in sporting activities and developed a love for football,” he says. While running the day-to-day business of the foundation, Eric doubles up as the lead coach for the Mathare girl’s soccer, where he takes it upon himself to get the children from their houses. “I move door to door, knocking and explaining myself to parents and asking them to entrust me with their girls. It’s something I am now used to,” he says. He has created a strong bond with the parents, and most of them are cooperative, though a few parents get hostile. “Due to the poverty levels in the area, some parents do not understand how they can let their child go and play football, while they can be left home with the younger children or make a few coins doing a certain chore,” he says. Such parents are ignorant, he says, but they keep pressurising them and some eventually buy into the idea. Eric says the main purpose of Mathare slum soccer is not football but to help reduce the crime rate, school dropout cases, early pregnancies and raising their self-esteem. While on this cause, the foundation comes across real football talents, and they connect such children to different young football clubs and schools.  EDUCATION FUND So far, the foundation has more than 60 boys and 20 girls in the soccer teams, with the number fluctuating each day. “Our youth programmes are critical to offering a safe respite for children aged 10-16, where they can uncover their talents and realise their potential to become young leaders in their communities and beyond,” Eric says. “We strive to connect our students with opportunities to generate additional income and provide guidance towards higher education and certification programmes, where they can ultimately pursue exciting and viable employment and career opportunities.” After three successful years of youth programmes, the foundation started a Mathare Education Fund in 2016, which is funded by the British High Commission. “Last year, we supported 41 children in primary and secondary school by looking at the needs and sponsoring them either fully or partly,” Eric says.  AWARDED FOR ENDEAVOURS In 2016, Eric won the prestigious Commonwealth Youth Worker Award for Africa in recognition of his outstanding dedication to improving the lives and futures of slum children. Hesky Ndungu has been coaching the boys’ team, Catalans, since 2013. He says football has raised discipline among the children since they are committed. “When we started, we used to go round the slum, asking boys to come and play, but nowadays they just come. Many boys in the slum want to identify with football,” Hesky says. His ambition is to change the lives of slum children. “I want to see a child I nurtured from this place play internationally. That is what I look forward to, and it keeps me going,” he says. Hesky trains two boy teams, the under 14s and over 15s.  ‘GAME CHANGER’ Mary Onguso, a mother in Mathare, says the foundation has been a game changer. “When my son is not in school, he is in the field, and I love that he does not idle around,” she says. She adds that she is happy there is something good coming out of Mathare. Another mother, Jane Njeri, says since her daughter joined the football training, she has noticed a change in her behaviour. “She is more disciplined and prayerful. I am glad I let her go,” she says. Before getting to the field, the children are always taken through life lessons, where they are taught respect, discipline and prayer. “We want to instil in them more than football. We always teach them other life lessons and always pray before and after all training’s,” Eric says.