All travellers entering the country will have to be screened following an Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo. At least 17 people have died of the infectious disease in the northwestern part of Congo in what is a ninth outbreak in the central African nation since 1976. Health CS Sicily Kariuki yesterday said screening will be done at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and at Busia and Malaba border points. Kariuki said they have installed thermal guns at the entry points to detect travellers with abnormally high temperatures. The ministry has also established the National Health Emergencies Council to expedite prevention of Ebola and other diseases. "The ministry will issue a formal alert to all health providers and Kenyans to make them aware of the outbreak. We'll also outline measures to take including enhanced surveillance and preparedness," Sicily said. Read: Kenya issues Ebola alert after DR Congo outbreak, starts screening JKIA The CS urged Kenyans to remain calm, saying the ministry had the capacity to detect and swiftly respond to any emergencies. More than 11,300 people were killed in West Africa during the worst ever Ebola outbreak in 2014. Another 28,600 people were infected as the disease ravaged Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. The virus was first discovered in the DR Congo, then known as Zaire, in 1976. It was named after the Ebola River. Ebola is thought to be spread by fruit bats. The birds can host the virus without dying. The virus is often spread to human beings through infected bushmeat or contact with bodily fluids of infected persons or animals. In 2015, about 170 Kenyan health workers were sent to Sierra Leone and Liberia as part of the African Union mission to contain the outbreak in West Africa. The volunteer health workers stayed in the mission for six months. They were trained on prevention and management of the haemorrhagic fever by the World Health Organisation and other partners. Click here for the latest political news