Banning the acclaimed Kenyan film Rafiki about a lesbian friendship has ignited rivalry between the Kenya Film Classification Board and the Kenya Film Commission. The two are under the Ministry of Information. The board banned the film on grounds it promotes lesbianism. The public has critisied the ban. The film directed by Wanuri Kahiu features a silent minority suffering for fear of expressing their sexuality. Ezekiel Mutua, the board CEO, said the film violates production laws. Read: Kenya bans lesbian based film 'Rafiki' ahead of Cannes Festival But yesterday, commission chairman Christopher Foot said the board has no mandate to regulate the film industry as that is KFC’s sole mandate. He criticised the ban. “It is ridiculous to ban a movie because it contains an illegal subject. It would be different if it was pornographic. It is entirely different to do a documentary about two lesbians,” Foot said. He added that Rafiki involves acting and “freedom of expression and to tell stories”. Foot suggested that KFCB’s actions hinder the film industry’s growth through backward rules. The chairman admitted there is tension between the commission and the board. He said “even families have tensions ... it is something we can work through.” Foot said Rafiki is a classic example where the two agencies ought to have sat down, discussed and found a common position. “Who has seen a production in Kenya that does not have theft, murder, terrorism or corruption in it? What a ridiculous premise to have?” Foot said. “If you speak to international and local producers and see the comments on social media, the frustrations are clear. The industry as a whole is frustrated with barriers that brought up and costs that have been put up, it is a very difficult working environment.” KFC said it will work with other state departments to remove the barriers. Foot said there is a discussion about film licensing and regulation, which includes the Attorney General’s office. Read: What critics think of Kenya's banned lesbian film 'Rafiki' [VIDEO] We need love, not war, 'Rafiki' film-maker says after ban Click here for the
latest political news