Shareholders’ disappointment after receiving lowest dividends in seven years saw listed cigarette maker, British American Tobacco shed Sh3 billion yesterday. BAT’s share dropped Sh30 to trade at Sh600, registering 4.7 per cent drop compared to Thursday when it traded at Sh630. Yesterday’s poor performance left double bruises on the firm’s management, which had a rough morning explaining to investors why their 2017 dividends had dropped almost by a half to Sh22.50 down from Sh43 the previous year. BAT’s 2017 profits shrunk 21.2 per cent to Sh3.3 billion compared to Sh4.2 billion on account of tough operating environment due to protracted election cycle in Kenya, prolonged drought that hampered tobacco production and high tax stamp. Addressing journalists after seemingly stormy annual general meeting yesterday, BAT managing director Beverley Spencer Obatoyinbo said that the firm was pleased to have successfully navigated challenging trading environment to post solid, albeit reduced set results. She partly blamed Kenya’s high tax stamp for the firm’s financial woes, terming a 87 per cent increase on the cost of each stamp as misappropriate and unjustifiable. The Excise Act was introduced in March last year. "The effects of 50 per cent excise increase in December 2015, which led to unprecedented price increases for our affected products, continue to be felt. The Excise Act of 2017 added Sh160 million to the cost of doing business in Kenya, without clear benefit to the tobacco industry,’’ said Obatoyinbo. She added that the high tax regime has seen consumers turn to illegal market, making the government lose substantial tax revenues. The cigarette firm with operations across East Africa has appealed to Kenya to provide more stability and predictability in the excise environment by reversing disproportionate cost of excise stamps for tobacco products and address the dramatic increase in illicit trade. Specifically, we urge the government to avoid excise shocks by effecting small steady increases, reverse the decision to introduce the differential excise tier of Sh1800 on filter-less cigarettes and return to a single tier specific excise system with Sh2500 per mille. Investors went home with lowest dividends in since 2011 when they pocketed Sh30.50 per share.