A Kenyan soldier killed in a terrorist attack in Somalia earlier this month was yesterday buried at Nyakahura Village in Kangema, Murang’a County. The 28-year-old Boniface Kamau was among eight KDF
soldiers who died at Dobley in Somalia on May 6 after their vehicle ran over an
Improvised Explosive Device. He is survived by his wife Margaret
Wairimu and two children. Kamau's burial was postponed from last week Thursday to allow his father Simon Irungu, who is facing manslaughter charges for allegedly killing a relative, attend. Kamau joined the KDF in December 2014 and was
deployed to Somalia in January this year. Kenya Army Commander Robert Kibochi said Kamau served his country
with loyalty and dedication. In a speech read on his behalf by Major James Kavusu, the
commander said death has robbed the entire nation of a loyal patriot who
sacrificed his life to give Kenyans a better life. “All the agriculture we do and businesses we establish would not have succeeded were it not for the soldiers who have taken the war to the doorsteps of terrorists,” he said. Kibochi said were it not for the
sacrifice of such brave soldiers, the country would not have peace and the
economy would be compromised. Kamau’s wife said her husband called her on the
fateful day to bid her goodbye saying his troop was  facing serious attacks
and their chances of survival were minimal. Kamau told her they were escorting
some vehicles back to the country and asked her to take care of their
children if he perished. Wairimu said she operates a kiosk that might not support her two children aged two and four years and pleaded for
help from the government. The family is also facing distress over Kamau's father, a former assistant chief, who is being tried for allegedly killing a relative last year. He was detained during his case, but was given a bond to mourn his dead son. A ruling in his case was to be issued on May 18 but was postponed to allow him attend his son’s burial. After the death of Kamau and his colleagues two weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta sent a message saying eulogising the soldiers.