President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday assented to three Bills to allow 14 marginalised counties share Sh11.98 billion. Among them is the Equalisation Fund Bill. Turkana will get Sh1 billion — the largest share of the fund —, followed by Mandera with Sh967.6 million. Wajir will receive Sh929.8 million. The other counties that have been allocated comparatively huge sums of funds are Marsabit Sh886.2 million, Samburu Sh869.7 and Tana River at Sh859 million. The Equalisation Fund is aimed at improving healthcare, water services, education, roads and electricity distribution in the northern counties. The others are the Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2018, and the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2017. Through the Supplementary Appropriation Bill ( 2018 ), Uhuru allowed an expenditure of Sh87 billion for services for the current financial year, which ends on June 30. Read:Uhuru launches Sh6 billion Equalization Fund for poor counties These services include development of the blue economy, policing, population management, and correctional and devolution services. The others are foreign relations and diplomacy, technical and vocational education and youth training, among others. Agriculture, health and housing have been apportioned the highest amount, complementing the government’s Big Four agenda. The Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) makes several changes to various Bills, including the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, the Pensions and the Pharmacy and Poisons law. The amendments in the SRC law seeks to have commissioners of the entity engaged on a full time basis. Additionally, the Bill allows the President to nominate the chairperson of the commission. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Majority Leader Aden Duale witnessed the signing of the Bills at State House, Nairobi. Also present was Siaya Senator James Orengo, who is the Senate Minority Leader. Orengo was visiting State House for the first time in more than five years. This exemplified the continued spirit of the now famous ‘handshake’ between the President and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Click here for the latest political news 