A teenager yesterday emotionally recalled the last moments of nine-year-old Stephanie Moraa who was shot dead during the post-election protests. Moraa was allegedly shot by police on August 12 last year while playing with other children in Mathare North, Nairobi. Police were fighting protesters, who were unhappy after President Uhuru Kenyatta was declared winner of the August 8 General Election. Testifying before an inquest that is trying to establish circumstances that led to the girl’s death, the witness recalled how she, Moraa and three other friends were playing on the balcony of their house, when she was shot. A man whom she only identified as Mose came from the house and told them to move away from the balcony because it was not safe. Read: Mourners rebuke Matiang'i at Mathare girl Stephanie Moraa's burial INQUEST: Baby Pendo teargassed before being clobbered Asked for help She said they were playing on the balcony of the third floor of their house in Mathare North Area II when the incident happened. The 15-year-old girl told chief magistrate Francis Andayi, “I saw blood oozing from Stephanie’s back, while smoke was coming out of her stomach”. She said this was moments after police ordered them out of the balcony. “I moved a distance. But moments later I saw Stephanie lying on the floor,” the witness said. “Stephanie grabbed Mose and told him three times, help me, help me, help me and then she closed her eyes.” From the balcony, she said, she could see young men pelting police with stones on the main road. Moments later, she said three police officers moved near their house and chased away the young men. “I saw one of the police officers coming near our house. He was pointing his gun towards the social hall but he later turned towards us,” he said. She told court her friends thought Stephanie was shocked when she fell, only to realise moments later that she had been injured when they saw blood. The witness said that the incident drew a huge crowd and more police officers were sent to the area. Read: DPP forms public inquest on Baby Pendo, Stephanie Moraa killings Also Read: Shoot me if I'm the problem, not my supporters, Raila tells Jubilee Click here for
the latest political news