Lawmakers across the political divide have praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for apologising to Kenyans for the consequences of last year’s divisive politics. Jubilee and Nasa legislators have termed the State of the Nation speech Uhuru delivered on Wednesday as “excellent”. He called for unity and the strengthening of national values in a speech so compelling that DP William Ruto and several other leaders have also apologised to the public. Read: Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino Also read: Forgive me too, Ruto tells Kenyans after Uhuru's State of the Nation speech Senate Minority Leader James Orengo (Siaya) said: “The apology to Kenyans is a weighty issue especially when it comes from the President. However, a lot needs to be done as far as the country’s leadership is concerned.” Senate Majority Chief Whip Susan Kihika said the President’s speech reflected events in the country and solidified the need to achieve national unity and peace. “Seeing Jubilee and Nasa lawmakers listen to the President address shows we are becoming a mature democracy,” said Kihika, who is Nakuru Senator. The two sides resolved to work together following the March 9 handshake by the President and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. The  government's focus is now the Big Four Action Plan on affordable housing, food security, affordable housing and universal healthcare. More on this: State of the Nation: I will give Kenyans decent homes, Uhuru promises Senate Minority Whip Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni) said Uhuru should have been "emphatic” on the teething issue of corruption in his speech. He added that most public officers mentioned in the 2016 list of shame he presented in Parliament should have been prosecuted. “I expected the President to explain what he and Raila agreed on the handshake, the implementation strategy and Parliament's role in it," he said. Jessica Mbalu, who is Kibwezi East MP and Public Accounts Committee vice chair, said Uhuru’s speech was “impressive” and that his commitment to promoting national unity will steer the country’s development. Mbalu, however, raised concern that not much was achieved during Uhuru’s first five years. She, however, expressed optimism that unity with the Opposition will see him deliver the promises in his manifesto. “The contents of his speech were a continuation of what he said in the past but with the handshake, we hope next time it will be better,” she said. “The President also did not speak about measures the country has put in place to help persons displaced by the floods in parts of the country including Makueni county.” Busia Senator Amos Wako said the 12th Parliament should put in place a law to strengthen national values and Chapter Six of the Constitution, on leadership and integrity, because the last House failed. Wako backed Uhuru’s commitment to ensuring counties are adequately funded but said the allocation from the national government should be doubled. “He has tried in funding counties but the allocation is based on the audited financial accounts of 2013-14. The current budget is in trillions hence counties should get double of what they are receiving,” he said. Related: State of the Nation: Devolution no longer a baby, commitment intact, says Uhuru Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and his Narok counterpart Ladema ole Kina demanded that youth be involved in all national matters including the recently constitution of a 14-member national dialogue committee. Kina, however, differed with his ODM leader Raila over his proposed three-tier system of government through the formation of 14 regional blocs. “I don’t support the three-tier structure but we should give devolution time to grow. Counties should be allowed to form economic blocs willingly, not by law,” Kina said. The Senator added that he supports any proposal to review the Executive by creating positions such as that of Prime Minister to accommodate other people. On April 18, Jubilee Party Secretary General Raphael Tuju said the government has no intention to change the structure of the Executive. Details: Jubilee won't change Executive, law will decide IEBC's fate - Tuju Full address: [State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Click here for the latest political news