For a man used to the trappings of power, the grim reality of Ndubai's new home at the Industrial Area remand prison must be humbling. At 64, Ndubai is the most senior of the NYS inmates, both in rank and age. For a man accustomed to the high society of upmarket Runda estate, Ndubai’s first night at the remand prison came with a few surprises, such as going to bed hungry. The green prisons bus arrived past 12.30am, by which time other remandees had already taken their supper and retired for the night. Unlike in his home in Runda, there was no bed or room to retire to. He had to choose his position on the floor, his only comfort being an old, half-inch foam mattress. Read : NYS boss Richard Ndubai, three senior officials arrested over Sh9bn scandal For the next seven days, Ndubai will not enjoy the luxurious lifestyle that comes with a chauffeur, personal guard or the four-course meal that is customary for every top dog of his class and position. Breakfast at prison is served strictly at 6.30am and comprises only tea and porridge. For the next one week, he will undergo a daily roll call every morning and evening. This happens between 6am and 6.30am to keep records of remandees and track them as they leave for court and return to the cells. He will also have to stomach lunch and supper of ugali and vegetables, disappointing for a man used to fine dining at a time of his choosing. Lunch at the remand facility is strictly served at 12.30pm, while dinner is served at 5.30pm. And the cups and dinnerware are not particularly attractive — all plastic. And he'll have to eat with his fingers as there are no spoons. All remandees eat in an open room, without chairs and tables, prison staff told the Star. Ditto for other remandees, including PS Lilian Omollo, whose is supposed to be spending her days at Lang'ata Women's Remand Prison, along with businesswomen. She has since been hospitalised after fainting. The only person who has so far receive preferential treatment is 30-year-old Anne Ngirita from Naivasha, thanks to her toddler who came in handy. She received an extra mattress and blanket and extra care for the youngest guest of the state. Ngirita will have to pay for the mandazi for her child from the nearby kiosk. Ngirita, who allegedly pocketed Sh59 million for supplying nothing to the NYS, was in court with her son alongside her sister-in-law, who also had a toddler. Read: PS Lillian Omollo admitted to KNH after collapsing in Langata prison In court on Tuesday, she held on to her son but later handed him to a relative when he became cranky. Frightened by the surroundings, he had clung to her mother in the court's basement holding area. Another suspect had slung her child on her back for more than hours in court where she denied charges. COMMUNITY SERVICE Every morning, Ndubai & Co will be required to take part in prison community service — cleaning the sleeping cubicles. All remandees, irrespective of their position, must clean up. After cleaning, he will be free to mingle with fellow remandees or go back to 'bed', a warden at the Industrial Area remand prison told the Star. Individuals also clean their clothes if they are not lucky enough to have friends and relatives to bring them fresh clothes every day. Ndubai's family and friends will be allowed to see him for a maximum of 15 minutes either in the morning or afternoon. Visitors communicate with remandees through a window sealed with wire mesh to ensure no physical contact. Remandees are only allowed crucial items such as tissue paper, soap and toothpaste. There are no phones or newspapers, although some exceptions have been made. The accused will return to court on Tuesday when they will know if they will be released on bond or remain in custody until their case is heard and determined. See: NYS suspects remanded until Tuesday after DPP blocks bail Click here for the latest political news