Former International Catherine Mabwi has tipped youngster Immaculate Nekesa to take the setting mantle from regulars Jane Wacu and Janet Wanja. The Kwanthanze Secondary School player is part of the national Under-18 girls’ team currently preparing for next week’s Zonal 5 African Volleyball Confederation qualifier in Uganda. Mabwi, who is attached to the team alongside Justin Kigwari, will be seeking to qualify for the African Youth Championship scheduled for Algeria in July. She said Nekesa has all the credentials for the settling department. “The girl is good and willing to learn. She has the height which is an added advantage as far as the setting department is concerned. If she maintains the discipline, we have a perfect replacement for Wanja and Wacu in future,” observed Mabwi during the team’s training sessions at the YMCA on Thursday. She continued: “Her finger work is amazing and as coaches, we are just trying to better her.” Nekesa will, however, have to jostle to make the cut for the two setting positions alongside Linda Wasike from Bishop Sulumeti and Susan Losen from Kesogon Mixed School. Mabwi said: “We will look at the performance of every player in the last two weeks of training and select 14 players from the 16 currently in camp.” “All these players have made remarkable improvement and even those who will be dropped will feel they have learnt something when they go back to their respective schools,” noted Mabwi who doubles up as the U-23 national women’s team coach. She added: “If you look at the provisional squad, all these players are drawn from various schools across the nation and each and every one of them have something special and that proves that there is talent out there.” Provisional squad: Left attackers: Elvira Wakoli, Betty Sifuna, Pauline Itoo, Naomi Cheptoo and Gloria Nato; Middle Blockers: Lydia Iswan, Mercy Iminza, Marion Nangunda, Stacy Awour; Right attackers: Miriam Chelimo and Juliet Makokha; Setters: Emmaculate Nekesa, Linda Wasike and Susan Losen; Liberos: Delphine Nasimiyu and Eileen Nasuh