 Shops along the beachfront hung this sign because many vacationers
emerged from the ocean and walked straight into the shops, their swim suits
dripping water on the floor, and their feet dragging and spreading sand
everywhere. This had some undesirable effects. One, it left floors wet and dirty; two, it was a constant slip-and-fall hazard; and three, the near nude vacationers made
other dressed shoppers uncomfortable. Shop owners feared it would drive their
business down. That is how the N3 signs came about. In Kenya, our rendition of the N3 signs is ‘the management reserves the right of
admission’. On May 7, there was outrage on social media when a rendition of the N3 appeared to be imposed on a mother, who was
asked not to breastfeed her baby at a restaurant in Nairobi. This chronicle then
acquired a life of its own, with a lobby group calling for a protest against
this ‘discriminatory’ act. The demo was held on Tuesday. It is important to filter facts from emotion in this occurrence. Was the
aggrieved client coerced into patronizing the accused establishment? No. Was
she refused service? No. Was she told she cannot breastfeed her baby? No. Where
the facts get blurred was whether she was categorically asked not to breastfeed
her baby; or that if she chose to nourish her baby, she had two options; either
to do so in a toilet, or to cover up. Restaurants and
hotels are private producers of public goods by virtue of the services they
offer. They are motivated purely by commercial reasons to seek the patronage of
the public. Hence by design, they offer a quasi-public space for an exchange in
profit. Despite them being places of public accommodation, they do not lose
their freedom to associate or dissociate with the public. It is, therefore,
absurd to mandate them by law or public pressure to grant anyone who patronizes
their quasi-public spaces open access. Every day, we
choose to associate or dissociate in various ways such as a where to pray, who
to marry or what to read.  Intrinsically,
we discriminate against those things we don’t choose. However, others choose
the things we discriminate against, and others will have discriminated those we
chose against. The net effect is that in a free market economy, there is no
discrimination. The debate around this breastfeeding incidence has evolved into whether
lactating mothers have the right to or not to breastfeed in public. But I
choose to address another right: The right of private property. In the name of rights, the aggrieved client took to social media to
narrate her side of the story. In the name of rights, angry responses were
exchanged and a demo organised. And in the same name of rights, many public accommodation establishments
have both codified and normative rules. The prevailing one is ‘right of
admission reserved’. Being private entities, they are well within their rights
to refuse service should a client inconvenience or cause discomfort to the
other guests. However, this should not negate their responsibility to act in a
fair and equitable manner. The Kenya Hotels and Restaurants Act (2009) anticipates this and
provides a hearing to both parties. The intention is to ensure neither the
client nor the business owner are condemned unheard; or their rights violated
without recourse. However, there is a pervasive faulty reasoning that a private business
offering public goods is public property. This perception is perverted because
it implies the private owner automatically loses his or her rights to be guided
by principles in business management. Let us examine this through Cathy Miller, the owner of a bakery in
America. Miller was sued by a client for refusal of service. She refused to
bake a cake for a gay couple because she would not go against her Christian
beliefs. The couple sued her because she was supposed to offer public goods,
yet she declined their order because it was the normative rule for her
business. The judge ruled in her favour. The purpose of a business is to make profit. If clients like the
business, its goods and services, and are comfortable with its codified or
normative policies, they will continue patronizing that it. The opposite is
also true. Those that don’t, will vote with their feet and take their patronage
elsewhere. Business owners bear the economic costs of their policies. I hazard a
guess that if we were to use google maps to locate other eateries in the area
that serve mukimo and beef stew, there are plenty. So assuming that 10 per cent
of them have a ‘no breastfeeding policy’, it means the remaining 90 per cent
would cash in on mothers who would like to feed themselves, while feeding their
babies. And this is the magic of the unhampered market economy, where the
invisible hand directs clients to businesses with policies they are comfortable
with. So, the issue is not about shaming a breastfeeding mother but about
bearing the cost of lost income. And if the entrepreneur is willing to bear
this cost based on his principles, why is the public offended? We should heed Fredrick Hayek’s counsel that
freedom is not the absolute liberty to do as one pleases; rather it is the
recognition of the necessity of law and morality in order to ensure human
interaction is cooperative and orderly. So, my unsolicited advice to the aggrieved client
and the lobby group that organized the demo is: Your right to swing your fist ends where the nose of the restaurant owner
begins – O.W. Holmes.  Mugwe is a political economist 