President Uhuru Kenyatta has told individuals implicated in corruption that their tribe will not protect them from prosecution. He said that going forwards, there will no longer be room for anyone to hide behind their community name when found to have looted public funds. "Those who will continue to play with public funds should know that their days are numbered. They will see problems," Uhuru said. "We don’t want petty politics of using your community to defend yourself. If you are a thief you are a thief and you will be jailed." The president assured the public that all the funds that have been documented as stolen will be traced and recovered for purposes of being put to public use. "From today, we don’t want to hear when someone steals, he starts saying that "my community or my religion is being targeted". If you stole, you stole alone, carry your own cross," a visibly agitated Uhuru said. He spoke at Jacaranda Grounds in Embakasi East where he had gone to issue title deeds to Nairobi residents. His remarks came less than 12 hours after 33 suspects were charged in court over the loss of Sh468 million at the National Youth Service. Highly placed sources told the Star that it is the president who ignited the wave of arrests on the Sunday night by giving the orders to the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti. Among those arrested that night was NYS Directed General Richard Ndubai and several other senior officials at the agency. Public Service PS Lillian Omollo opted to surrender herself to the DCI on Monday morning. "We will make sure all that money that people have taken is recovered so that it helps us to build roads and give people water." Read: NYS suspects remanded until Tuesday after DPP blocks bail Related: You can't loot and go scot free, Duale tells NYS suspects Meanwhile, Uhuru announced that the national government was going to work together with the Nairobi county government in upgrading city roads. The President said the national government has set aside Sh4 billion for the upgrade for the project to complement funds allocated by the Nairobi county government. Governor Mike Sonko's administration recently embarked on re-carpeting city roads following public outcry. The governor announced that the road works will include building of drainage systems and bus centres. Uhuru said roads in Eastlands should be given priority in the road upgrade programme. He warned contractors that shoddy work will not be tolerated. "We don't want a scenario where a contractor works here partially, then moves there and does partial wotk and at the end no work is done." He regretted that Sh3.2 billion that were previously allocated for road construction and repair was not put to good use. "This time round, we will be watching. Those who have been given road construction contracts should know we are watching them. "And you residents, I’m giving you a task to check if the work is being done properly. If it’s not being done well, come and report," Uhuru said. Click here for the latest political news