Reports of four people who have gone missing in
Tana River county for the past two months have elicited fears of forced
disappearances. The county has had cases
of 15 people missing without a trace, with authorities not being clear of
efforts to know their whereabouts. This brings to 19 the number of disappearances
reported in the county since November last year. Families of victims suspect their loved ones are ‘taken
away’ by KDF and KWS officers. However, KWS senior warden John Wambua said the
allegations against the wildlife agency are outrageous and do not make sense. "When someone disappears, you have to report to
the Kenya Police. You cannot say someone has been taken by KWS. Where do we
take them?" Wambua asked in a telephone interview on Sunday. He said: "It is two ways. You are either in the
park or a poacher with a gun who gets shot and taken to the mortuary. Those
killed by the bullet are found in the mortuary. But there is nowhere we can
take people. We don’t have those powers." Tana River county commissioner Oningoi Ole Sosio also said the allegations against KWS and KDF officers are
not based on facts. He said some of those who are said to have
disappeared are usually discovered to have joined militant groups like al
Shabaab. "That is why the parents usually do not report
the matters to the police. We do not have any reports of missing people. They know
where their children have disappeared to." "The reports may be lies. If they think the police,
KWS or KDF soldiers have anything to do with the disappearance of their loved
ones, why don’t they report?" Ole Sosio asked. But Wardhei community chairperson Dahir Bile said the ‘killings’
started in 2013. "About 30 people have been found dead. Some we
were told are in prison but we don't know which one," he said. The families say the KWS officers have been
arresting them whenever they are found herding their animals in the national parks. "This provides them with the perfect excuse," Adam Abdi, whose son’s tortured body was found in a forest last December, said. Tana River borders Tsavo national park. The Kora
national park and the Tana River primates reserve are in the county. Ogle Abdi, Muhuri's field officer in Tana River, said: "In an instance where a body has been found and
the government does not have a proper explanation, they say the victims were
poachers." "All the torturing occurs in the forest and in the
parks. So, there is no way that these things can happen and the KWS claims they are not aware,"
said Muhuri’s rapid response officer Fahad Changi. Residents, mostly pastoralists from the Oromo
and Wardhei communities, on Saturday narrated to a team of seven human rights lawyers harrowing tales of how their loved ones
mysteriously disappeared. The lawyers from Muslims for Human Rights
(Muhuri), Public International Law and Policy Group (PILPG) and the Kenya
National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) met with the victims’
families. Click here for the latest political news 