Contrary to imagination, most of the traders named as beneficiaries of Sh1.9 billion payments by NCPB live humble lives in Eldoret and rural Uasin Gishu. Although they have been prominent within maize business circles in the region for many years, none of the traders has clear political connections or links to influential people. Among them are two sisters and a brother who took home the bulk of the controversial payments revealed in an audit report from the Ministry of Agriculture. The three were paid for maize deliveries worth Sh637 million to NCPB depots in Eldoret and Kisumu. They had already been paid Sh431 million. Celestine Chepchirchir, Caroline Chepchumba and Rodney Kimutai were paid Sh333 million, Sh96 million and Sh2.2 million, respectively, according to the audit that showed their status as traders and not farmers. Read : MPs to probe maize farmers' pay crisis Victoria Rotich — the mother of Chepchirchir, Chepchumba and Kimutai — is a well-known businesswoman in Eldoret town. She lives at Moiben, where she owns an ordinary home on about 60 acres. “I have been engaging in the maize business for long. I grow maize on my own land and lease more than 1,000 acres ,which I also use for maize farming”, she told the Star. She does not run other businesses in the region apart from farming  ABOVEBOARD Rotich says that because she is getting old, she has introduced her children to the business to carry on, as she withdraws to live a quiet life at home in her sunset years. “I started the maize business in 1982, but then I was farming. I have built our profiles for three decades and there is nothing to hide about myself or my children,” she said. Rotich says she is open for questioning about the maize scandal because she her business has always been aboveboard. Chepchirchir says they delivered maize from 1,600 acres to the NCPB but bought more from farmers who could not wait for delayed payment at the NCPB. “Many farmers who had lined up for weeks as they waited to get to the stores approached me and I started buying their maize because many needed money for school fees and other commitments,” she said. Rotich says the profile she had built allowed her to obtain loans of Sh110 million from the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) and Sh30 million from Oriental Bank, which she used to purchase maize from other farmers. Also read : Inside story of the NCPB maize scam She says she then delivered the maize to the depots through her children. Rotich’s son, Kimutai, also works mostly on the farms and in the maize purchase business. “I harvested part of the 9,000 bags I supplied to the NCPB from 500 acres of land, which I leased in Uasin Gishu county,” Kimutai said. The family drives ordinary cars and it’s not easy to identify them as the moneyed individuals behind the maize saga.  TARGETED Paul Marus, also named in the list, owns several pieces of land in Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia counties. Marus is listed as having delivered 14,735 bags to the Eldoret depot, despite having failed the vetting. He says he owns 1,400 acres. “I do farming and maize businesses openly and most residents of Uasin Gishu know me very well,” Marus said. Paul Biego and Stephen Maiyo, also listed in the scam, said they were not ‘cartels’ as claimed. “I am a genuine farmer and I have no connections with any one as claimed. I do clean farming business,” Biego said. He said he delivered 10,169 bags to the NCPB from December and was paid Sh18 million for crops harvested from his 200-acre farm. Maiyo said he supplied 104,000 bags from his farm and was yet to be paid his full dues. He questioned why he was being "targetted”. Although there have been questions as to how the traders ended up being paid most of the money, leaders in the region have defended the traders. “I am willing to offer a free ride to the media and any other person interested to see the farms where these people grow maize as farmers and also buy extra as businesses. They are not cartels as claimed,” Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said. Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo also said the traders are well-known farmers listed by the association. “The government needs to really look out for the cartels who imported maize from outside the country and filled up the NCPB stores. The list of traders they have given out does not contain cartels,” Menjo said. Read : Farmers wait until next budget to get paid for maize delivered Click here for the latest political news