Politicians lie all the time. Intellectual dishonesty and politics go hand in glove. Hypocrisy, corruption and self-aggrandisement are the grease that runs the political engine. Few would disagree with these notions and realities of political life, except Donald Trump, who has taken it to unimaginable levels. To say the man lies is an understatement. The Washington Post’s Fact-Checker blog has been keeping a strict count of Trump’s many misstatements, untruths and outright lies. And, not too long ago at a rally in Michigan, Trump hit another milestone: He topped 3,000 untrue or misleading statements in 466 days in office, according to the Washington Post blog. As one journalist has put it, “The problem with Trump’s penchant for prevarication is that it’s hard to contextualize it. We’ve never had a president with such a casual relationship to the truth. We have no count of how many lies Barack Obama or George W. Bush told per day because, well, they weren’t as committed to saying and then repeating falsehoods as Trump quite clearly is.” “It’s remarkable. The sheer rate of Trump’s untruth-telling is staggering. It is unprecedented. And, it is very, very hard to stop,” says CNN journalist Chris Cilliza. Fortunately for us, President Uhuru Kenyatta has not come even close to telling whoppers as frequently and as vexingly as Trump does. However, like all politicians, Uhuru has told his fare share of tales, not the least of which is that he won the presidency fair and square in 2013 and 2017. We know that’s not true, as did everyone except those in deep denial, but we accepted him as President and moved on. As Uhuru’s father Mzee Jomo Kenyatta used to say in the context of looking back at colonialism and the atrocities committed, we were to “forgive but not forget”. Yes, Uhuru asked for forgiveness, and we forgave him — at least those of us who put country first have. However, we cannot and will not forget the fact that vast majorities of Kenyans have been denied their right to vote for leaders of their choice by having leaders imposed on them time and again. Opposition leader and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga, a victim of perpetual electoral theft, took a deep breath and decided to have a handshake with Uhuru for the sake of the country and, more importantly, as a means to achieve that which we have not achieved — institutionalising electoral reforms that will find a lasting solution to polls theft and voter disenfranchisement. The only proven way of accomplishing this is by once more rewriting our Constitution to more firmly enshrine these rights and remove impediments in the way of all Kenyans enjoying the fruits of our Independence. You’ll think this is a noble cause all Kenyans would support but we’ve already seen people falling into their predictable camps. There are those opposed to the proposed referendum, primarily because they’re the beneficiaries and, therefore, will continue to be the beneficiaries of the flawed system we have in place. Having a debate or discussion about the merits of a referendum is healthy and desirable in any democracy. What’s not desirable and, therefore, must not be any part of this is peddling lies, distortions and innuendos intended to mislead and misinform the public about the referendum, as we already see happening by some characters, who want to enter Trump’s League of Lies. We must shun them and let the media take the lead in not only informing and educating the public, but also doing so openly and without fear.  Samuel Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator in the US        