Vendors have returned to the city centre, putting up new makeshift  structures to replace those demolished to make room for matatus. Their return is likely to frustrate Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s plans to decongest the Central Business District. The reconstructed stalls are on land meant for matatus that will be barred from the city centre. A spot check by the Star showed that traders are doing brisk business. New stalls have been put up at Ngara, Park Road, Muthurwa and Machakos County Bus termini. The county ordered that starting yesterday only two vehicles per sacco will be allowed in the CBD at any one time. The order, which will be implemented in phases, started with Tea Room Stage on Accra Road. Some whose structures were brought down said the new stalls were constructed by “strangers.” “It is clear, they wanted to bring their people here. That is why they removed us by force. The eviction was inhumane. It was not about matatus,” trader Paul Kariuki at Muthurwa said. The county denied it was creating space for ‘favoured’ traders. It said construction at some stages has delayed relocation of the matatus. “We want to move people into areas that are conducive for their survival. For instance, we have to ensure the place they are moving to has functional facilities like toilets,” director of Operations Peter Mbaya said told the Star. “Once the work is over in those areas, let me assure you, all those structures will come down. We mean business and our plans will not be jeopardised,” he said. The county has said matatus from Thika Road, Limuru Road and Kiambu Road should terminate their journeys at Murang’a Road A and B, Ngara and Desai Road service lane termini. Those from Juja Road are to end at Park Road terminus, while matatus from Langata Road, Ngong Road and Mombasa Road would end at the Railways Bus Station. Vehicles from Jogoo Road are supposed to end their journeys at Muthurwa and Hakati Bus stations. Commuters from Wayaiki Way will alight at the Westlands stage. On Sunday, construction was underway at Railways Bus Station. City Hall has attempted several times to ban matatus from the city centre but pressure and backlash from operators have always forced it to back down. The last major attempt was in May last year, when Governor Evans Kidero gazetted an order to ban matatus in the CBD. Another attempt was made in September last year.