I was listening to a CEO address her
team on their execution of the brand strategy; and what began quite reasonably
turned into a repetitive rant. I’ve seen it before, so many times. So
afterwards I asked why she felt she needed the repetition, to which she replied
‘I wasn’t sure they were getting it.” Knowing her audience to be a group of
sharp people, I had my doubts about this. I probed a bit more. “There was
nothing in their faces to tell me that they had got the point and were prepared
to address it.” I then made one of those synaptic
connections that (at my age) make me grateful. My mind went back to some
behavioural profiling we have done recently with another leadership team. During that session, it became clear
that many senior people were using impassiveness too distance themselves from
the heat of the immediate issue. It’s not that they didn’t get what was being
said; they were simply reserving their position. By contrast, more junior
people often wear their hearts on their sleeve and their opinions on their
face. They have not yet learned to dissemble. But whether your staff plays its cards
close to its chest or animates every response, you have an obligation to make
things as easy as possible for them to understand. Until 2016 the ICT giant Microsoft
identified eight competencies their leaders needed to succeed and ten behaviours
that marked inclusive diversity, whatever that is. Their employees had it a
little easier, with five behaviours they needed to flourish, but over 100
skills to master depending on role. These components “were not memorable,” says
Joe Whittinghill, GM Talent, “They were exhaustive.” As part of Microsoft’s cultural transformation Whittinghill worked with the NeuroLeadership
Institute to revisit Microsoft’s burden on employees. Together, they reduced it from well over 100
competencies to three big ideas: Create clarity, generate energy,
deliver success. They had worked out that you don’t need to be complicated
to compete. Microsoft understood that complex
concepts need to be communicated with the human brain in mind. We
often assume that human memory is like a computer, capable of right-clicking on anything important and saving it. But rather
than hardware, inside our skulls we have wetware with a finite processing
capacity. Scientists call our recall of
sounds ‘echoic memory’
and it lasts for only a handful of seconds. If a statement takes less than
three seconds to say out loud, it is significantly easier to recall and use. When
you need to sell a big idea, keep it short and the chances of adoption go up
dramatically.  Chris Harrison leads The Brand Inside in Africa www.thebrandinside.com