A senior police officer alleged to have shot dead a university student will remain in custody for seven more days as investigations continue. Kehancha police station OCS Sebastian Ambani was arrested last Thursday night in Osiepe village, Kisumu East constituency, in connection with the death of Brian Chacha. The 22-year-old KCA University student died of gunshot wounds on Thursday night at Mamboleo market in a chang’aa den. Chacha, who comes from Kuria West, was shot in the head and chest. On Monday officer Alfred Shibeka made an application in court, requesting to be granted 14 days to complete investigations. He said the suspect had mobilised a team that is threatening would-be witnesses and if released he would interfere with investigations. “We have received information the witnesses, some of whom were in the drinking den, have been threatened by the suspect’s people and setting him free will jeopardise our case," Shibeka told the court. He also said residents from Mamboleo and Kuria East are baying for the suspect’s blood and he is safer in custody. Ambani, however, opposed the investigating officer’s request. He told the court he has been in custody since May 10 and applied for bond. Ambani said the officers ought to have completed investigations before making an arrest. “There is no reason to seek more time and there is nothing like people being threatened by my people,” he said. Ambani said he was not arrested, but presented himself to the police. He appeared before Winam resident magistrate Caroline Njalale. The magistrate ordered the suspect be remanded for seven more days at the Maseno police station. The case will be mentioned on May 21. On Friday following a postmortem, family pathologist Isiaba Ndibire said the first bullet to the chest caused severe damage to the student’s heart. Another one to the head damaged the brain. Danstan Chacha, the student’s father, urged DPP Noordin Haji, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to ensure that justice is delivered. “I’m yet to receive communication from the officers investigating the matter,” he said. KCA students protested in Kisumu streets to press for action to be taken against the accused. The Kenya Universities Students Organisation condemned the shooting, saying the suspect must face justice. Click here for the latest political news