A man rented a house for his family for a year and when the lease was up, the landlord’s agent informed him rent would go up by 10 per cent. He accepted. But when he was informed of another increment after the second year in the flat, he told his wife they would have to move. His wife offered to pay the extra amount. During the third year, rent was hiked by another 10 per cent. The man asked to meet the “unreasonable” landlord to negotiate the lease terms, but the agent was reluctant. After some investigation, he was shocked to learn his landlord was in fact his wife. The anecdote is used by men to describe women who go by the mantra, “My husband’s money is ours, but my money is mine.” The Supreme Court on Friday last week declined to make a determination in an alimony case by a British couple living in Kenya, citing lack of jurisdiction. Charles Munro had said he could not maintain his former wife Pamela because she was a woman of means. The man had asked the court to interpret whether it is discriminatory for men to pay maintenance when there is no child. There was a debate on whether a former spouse should receive alimony if when married, he or she did not make financial contributions, but rather saved and invested his or her own money for him or herself. Munro argued Pamela has a house in England, which earns her Sh149,000 per month and a pension. He said Pamela can work.  ONLY GET WHAT YOU PUT In another case on Monday, Justice John Mativo ruled that upon divorce, a spouse can only walk out with what he or she contributed to the marriage. “The beneficial share of each spouse as the law on the division of matrimonial property stands in Kenya ultimately depends on the parties’ proven respective proportions of the financial contributions, either direct or indirect, towards the acquisition of the property,” the judge said. This followed a petition by Fida that sought to have spouses share matrimonial property on a 50-50 basis in the event of a divorce. Fida said it will appeal the ruling. Fida had wanted a section of the Matrimonial Property Act that requires family property to be shared according to each spouse’s contribution declared unconstitutional. The federation said spouses who take care of the home and raise children are shortchanged during divorce. In a press statement, Fida chairperson Josephine Mong’are said women’s gains made in the 2010 Constitution must be upheld. But some men say taking care of a home should not entitle a woman to 50 per cent of the couple’s assets upon divorce. The Star got people’s reactions to the 50-50 case:  Michael Waiganjo, a 35-year-old auditor in Nairobi, says: “I appreciate the work women do taking care of the home, but the person who brings home the bacon should get the lion’s share of assets upon divorce. It’s a woman’s work to take care of the household — it is godly. But if she wants to take 50 per cent of the assets, then she’d better be ready to work and put in money to acquiring assets as well. Let me refer to the Bible, Proverbs 31. The wife is not at home all day; she goes out and has a number of businesses to her name and takes care of her family, too. So long story short:  when a marriage ends, you get what you paid for.”  Alex Nyamai, a 40-year-old businessman, says he had a bad experience with his estranged wife. “I was hustling day in, day out to build a good life for my family, but I realised human beings are deceptive and hedonistic. Can you imagine after struggling and pursuing every opportunity I could get to ensure we built our family home, I found out the woman had a secret investment account, where she had accumulated Sh8 million. This is a woman who never contributed a coin to buying materials or paying contractors for our home, and she saw me being hounded by debtors to the level of getting high blood pressure and she didn’t contribute a thing. We separated after that. The trust was broken. And imagine the woman still wanted to stay in the house and I move out.”  Alice Achieng, a 30-year-old content creator, says she agrees with Mativo’s ruling that a spouse should only get what they contributed. “This is 2018. There is no reason a woman should be a stay-at-home mother. We women are superwomen. We can work and take care of our homes. It is important to have your own income as a woman because you never know when a man can get bored of you and decide to kick you to the curb. Then what? Why should you lower yourself to a beggar following him to pay for his children’s school fees, yet they are his kids. You are helpless when you depend on others. As a woman, you have to do something. Be it a small business or work or something. As long as you have a regular source of income, you will never be a slave to a man.”  But Doreen Mbugua, a 35-year-old mother of two, is of a different view. “Giving birth and nurturing children are immeasurable responsibilities that must be rewarded. How can I give a man children and then he one day decides to leave me with nothing? Childbirth takes a toll on a woman’s body and mind, and taking care of children is harder than any office job a man will do. So that effort must be rewarded with a 50 per cent share of everything if the marriage dissolves. And for those who say a woman can move on to another man who can take care of her, I want to let them know it is hard to find a good man without children. Once you have a child, there are men who will perform a disappearing act once you tell them you have a child from a previous relationship. Add another child and your chances of getting a man become slimmer and slimmer.”  Winnie Kivuva, 28, says it is wrong for anyone to compare the work a stay-at-home mother does with a nanny. “There are some who say a house help can do the duties a stay-at-home mother does, but the peace of mind you have when you know your wife is taking care of your child cannot compare to the disease you have when you are at the mercy of a house help. How many cases of house helps mistreating children do we hear about every other day? It is not unusual to hear a family changing households the way they change clothes because they are either cruel or undependable.”  Lawyer Laura Wakaba says that although one should not enter a marriage with an end-game of divorce in mind, it is wise to be cautious. “You might want to keep a record of what you contributed.”  So, is it fair to divide matrimonial assets based primarily on the financial input of each partner?