Humanity and disease are intertwined. The two share an extensive history dating back thousands of years. Theirs is always a relationship of a victor and a victim. Over the centuries, man has been forced to change tack or make adjustments in the fight against diseases. This has been the trend the world over and is bound to continue, even as diseases mutate, change face or become more aggressive. Four decades ago, doctors in Kenya were battling communicable diseases. They had to contend with malaria, tuberculosis, pneumonia and other ailments caused by multiple parasites. This is fast changing, given the gradual increase in non-communicable diseases. Two years ago, on April 8, 2016 to be precise, the Health ministry launched its first-ever report on the state of NCDs. Key findings indicated that NCDs account for the loss of 100,000 lives annually. Kenya is currently experiencing epidemiological transition in disease burden, from infectious to non-communicable conditions, which are a major health concern with significant social and economic implications. Globally, cardiovascular diseases account for most NCD deaths, or 17.5 million people annually, followed by cancers (8.2 million), respiratory diseases (four million), and diabetes (1.5 million). These four groups of diseases account for 82 per cent of all NCD deaths. In addition, tobacco use, physical inactivity, harmful use of alcohol and unhealthy diets all increase the risk of dying from an NCD significantly. The main causes of death from communicable diseases are influenza, HIV-Aids, diarrhoea, malnutrition etc, with the age adjusted death rate being 53.61/100,000 population. NCDs in Kenya amount to 27 per cent of the total deaths and more than 50 per cent of total hospital admissions. The major NCDs are cardiovascular conditions, cancer, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and their sequel. Notably, there has been an increase in coronary artery diseases. In 2014, the World Health Organization ranked Kenya 149 in the world in the census of CADs. Coronary artery disease develops when major blood vessels that supply one’s heart with blood, oxygen and nutrients become damaged or diseased. The rising cases may be attributed to adoption of unhealthy lifestyle (lack of exercise, increased intake of fast food) among others. The major risk factors are diabetes mellitus, hypertension, smoking, excessive alcohol intake and stress. As we continue grappling with the changing burden and shift in diseases, WHO estimates that NCDs will cause 73 per cent of global deaths and 60 per cent of the burden of disease by 2020. Sixteen million NCD deaths occur before the age of 70, with 82 per cent of these "premature" deaths occurring in low and middle-income countries. Given the above statistics, a comprehensive study would be necessary as it will examine the prevalence and the magnitude of common risk factors for NCDs in Kenya. This information can be useful for the Health ministry, various government sectors and county governments as it can be used to establish interventions based on local risk factor burden. The basis of chronic disease prevention is the identification of the major common risk factors and their prevention and control as the risk factors of today are the diseases of tomorrow. Additionally, information from this study will provide baseline data that will be used to assess disease trends and impact of various interventions. Mortality as a result of CAD in Kenya is between 6.1 and eight per cent. However, autopsy study suggests it is more than 13 per cent. The risk factors have increased over the last 20 years. Having said all these, we ought to bear in mind that Rheumatic Heart Disease constitutes a major cause of cardiovascular diseases both in children and adults. The annual mortality rate has however decreased from 19.8 per cent since 1990. Treatment of CADs, both medically and surgically, can save a lot of money for the Exchequer as most patients travel abroad for treatment. It is time we as a country became self-sufficient in treating these patients. At The Karen Hospital, for instance, in the last nine months more than 100 open heart surgeries have been performed with excellent outcomes. Fifty-two cases were valve replacements while 19 were coronary bypass surgery patients. A combined team approach in handling NCDs can give good outcomes and save money for the Exchequer. Besides the burden of deaths and disability, NCDs pose a greater social and economic burden to the economy. NCDs threaten progress in the post-2015 development agenda as poverty is closely associated with NCDs. The rapid rise in NCDs is predicted to impede poverty reduction initiatives in low-income countries, particularly by increasing household costs associated with healthcare. Vulnerable and socially disadvantaged people get sicker and die sooner with NCDs than people of higher social positions. Public awareness by government campaign can keep the NCDs under check.  Chief of Cardiothoracic & Vascular Surgery, The Karen Hospital, Nairobi premanand.ponoth@karenhospital.org/ pponoth@gmail.com 