Did the team behind the Nairobi regeneration project bite more than they could chew when they set their targets! The team that met President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 13 at State House promised heaven, swearing to resign if they don’t deliver on their mandate in 30 days. Among the promises, they assured Uhuru to enhance service delivery and repackage the city outlook within 30 days. They were to launch a mortgage refinancing company and clean garbage in the 85 wards within 30 days. Well, Corridors has learned that the team is now bumbling and groping around after learning that what awaited them is a tall order. The team is headed by the national and county leaders co-chaired by Governor Mike Sonko and Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala. ***** Are brokers in the Executive the cause of the corruption woes facing bosses of top parastatal and state agencies? A small bird has whispered to Corridors that the influential officials ensure their cronies are appointed to top positions in government institutions to help them influence the tendering process. The circle helps them acquire wealth by stealing from the public. They stay in office while those appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta to head the state agencies are sacked and/or face the justice system in the long run. ***** Did a top Cabinet Secretary gag State officials from sharing information with journalists after the deadly Solai incident by directing that only Rift Valley Regional Commissioner Mwongo Chimwanga speak? Those in the know said his decision has not gone down well with many, including family members, who have been struggling to trace their loved ones. Those who spoke to Corridors said the decision was ill-informed as the Constitution requires those in authority to freely share information they hold in the public interest. Be that as it may, the directive has worked well to cover whatever response State officials have offered. ***** A CEC in North Rift is a man on the spot. According to our mole in the county, the recently-appointed CEC who holds a crucial docket has become too petty. He identifies suppliers before he authorizes payments. Corridors is informed that the CEC, who was one of the county's suppliers before his appointment, demands to see every payment voucher before he authorises payment. He has also demanded the contacts of all the suppliers in order to call them before releasing payments. He also does background checks to know whether the suppliers provided funds for the governor’s campaigns during the August 2017 general election. Well, if that is accountable use of funds the the man is truly on top of things.