Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi says that Ford Kenya blundered by supporting Raila Odinga in the last General Election. He said it is good Raila lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Wamunyinyi said had he won, Raila would have run down the country. Raila would have amended the Constitution to suit his desires, he said. Wamunyinyi spoke at Ndakaru Primary School where he issued  CDF cheques. “ODM members and Raila are pushing for a three-tier government. He wants to create positions for his cronies,” Wamunyinyi said. He said while Ford Kenya is not opposed to constitutional changes, but it should be done in the interest of the country. They should prepare for the mother of all battles because we will not sit back and watch, he said. Wamunyinyi said new positions will overburden Kenyans. He said Kenyans have more important needs than a referendum. Raila should have looked at how to strengthen devolution not returning Kenyans to the divisive issues of power and positions, he said. “You have seen them assembling the Kenyatta, Moi and Odinga families. We are watching. We will bring those dynasties down,” Wamunyiyi said. He said they have learned bitter political lessons and in the future will choose their friends carefully. Wamunyinyi told Bungoma residents not to support families that have been in power for a long time. Wamunyinyi said in the next election they would have partners who would ensure they form the government. He said the people of Bungoma will never support Raila because he is a dishonest leader. Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, Wiper chief Kalonzo Musyoka and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) fell out with Raila after they skipped his swearing-in as the People’s President on January 30. There has been discontent among the NASA principals after Raila decided to bury the hatchet and work with President Uhuru Kenya. This culiminated in the handshake at Harambee House on March 9. Raila’s co-principals cried betrayal. As the new-found friendship between Raila and Uhuru blossomed, Wetang’ula was removed from the Senate Minority leader on March 20 and replaced by Siaya Senator James Orengo. The Bungoma senator cried foul and blamed Raila for his troubles. Last month, Raila scoffed at insinuations by Wetang’ula that he masterminded his ejection. He said he tried to save Wetangu’ula, but he was rejected by his colleagues who accused him of being arrogant and dictatorial. In a statement issued by his spokesman Dennis Onyango, Raila told Wetang’ula to stop using his name to shop for sympathy. “The senators accused Wetang’ula, in his presence, of being aloof, selfish, arrogant and having the tendency to impose decisions on them,” read the statement.