Six people have been confirmed dead and seven are fighting for their lives after a head-on collision a long the Meru-Mikinduri road on Monday night. The accident, which occurred near Kinyaritha River in North Imenti, Meru county, killed five passengers and a driver of a Probox, who collided with a Hilux Pick-up heading to Meru town. The Probox which was headed to Mikinduri. Witnesses said the Probox had 15 passengers on board and was over speeding. The Pick-up had only the driver. Eye witness Samson Gitonga Simba said the accident happened at around 9:40. "It was traumatizing. I can't recall how many people we managed to rescue. The first trip went with four seriously injured people, the second with two, and a private vehicle was also used to take the injured to hospital. The ambulance and fire fighters responded very quickly. I was about 50 meters away when the accident occurred, headed to Meru town to board a 10:00 bus to Nairobi. I had to postponed," Simba said. North Imenti police boss Sammy Kosgei, reluctantly confirmed to journalists the driver of Probox and six passengers perished. “Five passengers in the Probox and the driver died soon on arrival at Meru Level 5 Hospital. We have started investigations to establish what exactly happened,” Kosgei said. He said a Probox cannot carry such numbers. Kenya Redcross Society Central and Eastern region manager Gitonga Mugambi said police should enforce traffic laws to the letter. "Six people have perished and seven have been injured and rushed to hospital. The Probox was speeding and carrying excess passengers. I ask residents to stop boarding a vehicle with excess passengers. They must always observe their safety. Why do you want to be ferried in a Probox boat?" Mugambi said. Another eye witness said the driver of the Pick-up, David Kariithi, was not seriously injured, and was among those taken to Meru Level 5 Hospital. "He was not seriously injured like others. Kariithi suffered head, hand and leg injuries but he was not looking so bad. Five others who did not suffer such serious injuries were treated and discharged. We escorted them to their homes,” Mwirigi Benson said. On Tuesday residents were trickling at the Meru town Police station yard in disbelief. In October last year, three people were killed after the Probox they were travelling in collided with a lorry at Thimangiri market in Imenti North, Meru county. They perished on the spot. Four others were admitted to Meru Teaching and Referral and Kiirua mission hospital with serious injuries. Proboxes are used as matatus in Meru. Click here for the latest political news