After the controversial swearing-in of Raila Odinga as the Peoples President, and the conspicuous absence of the other three principals, many thought NASA would disintegrate. ODM is the biggest party in the coalition and has the majority MPs in Parliament among the affiliate parties. Though they betrayed him at the alter,when he needed them most, many anticipated the three absentees to leave NASA. They haven’t so far, and may not, especially if Raila will not be on the ballot in 2022. They need Raila more than he needs them. If he does not run, he will play the kingmaker role. He is charismatic and a seasoned politician and with his support, one can comfortably have a good starting point to face Deputy President William Ruto, who is Uhuru Kenyatta’s apparent heir. For Kalonzo Musyoka, he has played second fiddle to Raila twice and expects 2022 to be the payback time. But will the opposition chief keep the promise this time round? It is imperative to note the difficulty Raila may have to either convince or confuse his supporters to vote for Kalonzo or any of the other three NASA principals, who to his supporters, betrayed him. In my view, Kalonzo needs to convince Raila to back him to have any relevance in the next election. The age of the three could also be the reason for their fruitless stay in the opposition. Kalonzo and Wetang’ula are in their sixties, while Mudavadi is in late fifties. They have sacrificed and waited enough. Mudavadi and Kalonzo have already served as vice presidents, and are thus just one step away to the top office: Too near, yet too far. The other reason is the emergence of flamboyant Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. Nothing is too big to this man. He shoots from the hip. He has guts and has cash. He is on record engaging the President in a rally they shared the podium. He is a close ally of Raila and one of the ODM deputy party leaders. It is Joho who invited Raila to the podium during the mock swearing-in. Having been one of the steadfast supporters of Raila, it is not lost that the opposition leader may just endorse him. At a past press conference by the three NASA principals, Joho asked ODM delegates to remain focused on the party’s ultimate goal of ascending to power, and stop wasting time on the other coalition partners.This, in a nutshell, is a sign that ODM is flexing its muscles to go it alone in 2022. The three principals wouldn’t want such a scenario. Mudavadi cannot not also leave NASA, his brain child, just like that. This largely means NASA remains.  Mwangi comments on politics