Massive growth in construction in Kilimani area, Nairobi, has continued to contribute to global warming. Concrete absorbs a lot of heat during sunny days but takes time to cool," Kilimani Project Foundation Programme Assistant Martha Wamuyu said on Friday. "So many apartments are coming up within Kilimani. This means a lot of trees are cleared to pave way for roads and buildings," she added, noting the need to plant more for the impact of climate change to be mitigated. Wamuyu said Kilimani was once a very green neighbourhood. UNEP says that buildings are globally responsible for 40 percent of annual energy consumption and up to 30 percent of all energy-related greenhouse gas emissions. The building sector has also been shown to provide the greatest potential for delivering significant cuts in emissions at no cost. This sector is responsible for one-third of humanities resource consumption, including 12 percent of all fresh-water use, and produces up to 40 percent of annual solid waste. It employs more than 10 percent of the workforce and with urbanisation increasing in the world’s most populous countries, building sustainability is essential to development. The foundation is a not-for-profit company that endeavors to provide vibrant, meaningful and socially conscious community events and programmes. It also seeks to conserve and beautify the environment by planting trees and flowers around Kilimani. On Saturday, it partnered with Nairobi county, staff of Hurlingham's Four Points Hotel, Organic Farmers, the Kilimani chiefs office and NIC bank for the launch of a tree planting initiative at Milimani Primary School. The drive is under the 'Grey2Green' initiative that the foundation started in 2016. Under the initiative, over 2000 trees have been planted on streets and public schools within Kilimani. This year's aim is to plant more than 2000 fruit, exotic and indigenous trees in public primary and secondary schools in in the area. The beneficiaries are Kilimani, Nairobi, St George's and Milimani Primary Schools as well as St George’s and State House Girls' Secondary Schools. "We have partnered with county to maintain and protect trees along Oloitoktok Road. In the schools, we are working with teachers and students to adopt and nurture the trees," Wamuyu said. "We will also work with the schools administrations to make sure there is continuity after the students leave." Milimani head teacher Charles Kado said school children can play a critical role in tree planting and adoption. "When children adopt tree planting, forest cover will increase, guaranteeing them a good future since the clarion call is that if you become harsh to the environment, the environment will become harsh to you." More than 200 trees were planted at the school during the drive. Kilimani Assistant County commissioner Rehema Noel said everybody must help increase the country's forest cover to 10 percent by 2022. Investors are welcome to put up tall buildings but they must do so responsibly, he said. Related: 70 new water towers identified as Kenya aims for 10% forest cover by 2022 Also read: As government roars, nobody knows extent of Kenya's forest cover Click here for the latest political news