A large population of Kenyans have never heard of menstrual cups. The few women who have come across them vow not to use them. However, this boils down to cultural beliefs and ignorance. Many are afraid of using the menstrual cup because it involves insertion. For those who have never heard of menstrual cups, it is basically a feminine hygiene product that is inserted into the vagina during menstruation. The cups, unlike tampons and sanitary towels, collect the menstrual fluid rather than absorb it. The cups play the same role as sanitary towels or tampons, however they are more affordable as they can be used to up to 10 years. Once it is full, a woman only has to remove it, wash it and put it back until the end of the cycle. The cups, which are made from flexible medical grade silicone, are bell-shaped and have a stem that helps during insertion and removal.  /CHARLES MHGENYI They come in different sizes, depending on one’s menstrual flow, says Juliana Mwaega, field officer at DSW-Kenya (Deutsche Stiftung Weltbevolkerung). DSW is a German-based international NGO that deals with sexual and reproductive health and population dynamics. For those who do not know, May 28 is International Menstrual Hygiene Day, an annual awareness day to highlight the importance of good menstrual hygiene management. To address the challenges facing millions of Kenyan woman with no access to sanitary towels, DSW has started a programme to supply these to children in the coastal counties. However, there are women aged between 18 and 28 with no access to sanitary towels each month. On average, a woman spends between Sh150 and Sh250 on sanitary towels monthly. This might seem like a small amount to some people, but for those in poor urban settings, it is a lot. Mwaega says they reached out to their parent organisation in Germany and told them the challenges women in urban informal settlements go through. Niko Free, a project to improve know-how and access to appropriate menstrual management methods for girls in informal settlements in Mombasa, was initiated in September last year. "We were lucky that we got support to launch a menstrual cups project with 50 girls from Mombasa and Kilifi counties last September. Each was given a pair of the menstrual cups and trained on the appropriate usage," Mwaega says. DWS-Kenya is working with four youth groups in Mombasa; Pwani Youth Network in Mikindani, Stretchers Youth in Changamwe, Dream Achievers in Kisauni and Hands of Mercy in Maweni, Nyali, in the pilot phase of the Niko Free project. In Kilifi they are working with Safe Community in Mtwapa. According to DSW, the women who were recruited into the pilot project were taught how to handle and use the menstrual cups. Before using the cups, you have to first boil them in clean water to kill any germs to avoid the risk of contracting fungal or any other infections, Mwaega explains. When it’s ready for use, the cup is first folded or pinched and then inserted into the vagina; it will unfold automatically and fit against the vaginal walls. If correctly inserted, the cup will not leak or cause any discomfort, Mwaega says. Florence Otieno from Stretchers Youth Organisation and Keziah Omollo of Pwani Youth Network are among the 50 women picked for the pilot project. Otieno says since September last year she has saved on the money she used to spend on pads. She says the cups have served her well. "At first I was so sceptical about this cup, but I can tell you for a fact it has really sorted me out. I can do all my stuff. I can even go swimming when on my periods without any worry," Otieno says.  Florence Otieno explains to Judy Mboku how to use a menstrual cup at the DSW-Kenya office in Mombasa, May 30, 2018. /CHARLES MGHENYI She used to spend Sh200 on sanitary towels per month. One menstrual cups costs between Sh2,000 and Sh4,000, but it can be used for ten years, so in the long-run it is more economical. The price of the menstrual cups varies from brand to brand. "I have been able to save the Sh200 which I used to spend on pads every month. On top of that, the menstrual cups make me free, I can go swimming while on my periods, I can sleep or sit in whichever position without fear of staining my clothes," she says. Omollo says many women in urban settings face a challenge when they want to dispose of pads after use. "When you are in town or a new place and you want to change a pad, it becomes very challenging. "Most of the public toilets do not have pad disposal bins, you are therefore forced to wrap it and walk with it around town. You cannot flush the pad down the toilet, because obviously to will block it," she says. Omollo explains it is much easier to use the menstrual cups because you only have to empty the menstrual cup, rinse or wipe it and reinsert. "Sometimes, for women who do not have heavy flow, you cannot fill the cup in day. Therefore, you are free to do you work the whole day and change at night," she says. Mary, a woman who is not part of the Niko Free project, says she was introduced to the menstrual cups in 2013 by a friend, and since then she has become a regular user. "I normally use my cup. You see in Mombasa [it’s really hot], therefore every time, during your periods, you have to change the pad. But for the cups, you do not need to change every time until it is filled up," she says. Mary says that her flow is very minimal and she has never filled the cup in a day. Jane, a marketing executive with one of the leading companies in Mombasa, says however she cannot 'dare insert plastic in my body'. Let me stick to my pads," she says. She is supported by Anne, Aisha and Priscillah, who said they are "loyal to pads". "Eh, that is a no, no. I cannot even think about it,” Anne says. Mwaega says they expected a backlash from society, but the organisation will keep on educating the masses. "Yes, we are aware there are those who will oppose this because of either cultural or religious beliefs. There are those who might not like it, but we will keep on telling the people the benefit of using the cups as compared to pads or tampons," she explains. Mwaega urges the national government to embrace the menstrual cups and together with other stakeholders to implement the project in poor urban settlements. "We want to see this project being implemented because our women will be saving each month. They will also be able to be free and carrying on with their duties without fear of staining their clothes," she says. Mwaega says other countries, including Germany, have declared the menstrual cups safe for use. "Actually, the United States Food and Drug Administration did some research and concluded there are no health risks associated with them," she says. Click here for the latest political news