The state supports efforts by the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industries to host the World Chamber Congress in 2021, DP William Ruto said yesterday. The congress brings together global agencies, businesses and high-profile government officials, hence hosting it would boost the economy. “You have our unequivocal support. This is not an event for the chamber of commerce, but for Kenyans,” Ruto said at Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel, Nairobi, during a KNCCI golf event. Adan Mohamed (Industrialisation CS), Amina Mohamed (Education CS), MPs Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Rachel Nyamai (Kitui South) and Swarup Mishra (Kesses), and KNCCI national chairman Kiprono Kittony were present. Read; Kenya in race to host 2021 World Chamber Congress The congress is held biennially on a rotational basis and the 2021 event will be the 12th. Previously, the forum has been held in France, South Korea, Canada, South Africa, Turkey, Malaysia, Mexico, Qatar and Italy. Ruto urged the private sector to back the government’s Big Four agenda — manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security. “There is need for the private sector to partner with the government to transform the country and formalise the informal sector,” he said. “We are looking upon the private sector in the implementation of our programmes to have a win-win situation.” Ruto told investors to take advantage of the opportunities created in the market by the tripartite agreement and the East African Community. The government has laid the foundation for the transformative agenda by investing in projects that have positive impact on the lives of the people, especially in the fields of energy, infrastructure and expansion of skills to meet industrialisation needs, he said. The DP said the foundation will help establish more business opportunities for small and medium enterprises and creates jobs. He assured the private sector that Kenya and the other EAC member states will continually improve policy and business environment. Strengthening partnerships and enhancing regional trade are key to fostering industrialisation, he said. “It’s time the private sector built bridges into the EAC and exploited existing business opportunities for the people,” Ruto said. He urged the KNCCI to ensure SMEs and the Nairobi Stock Exchange get alternative sources of funding, instead of relying on banks alone to survive. Ruto said only 64 companies trade at the NSE, yet many big corporate bodies are yet to be listed. “More companies should be listed in the Nairobi Stock Exchange so no one is left behind in the prosperity of the country,” he said. Kittony thanked the government for supporting the KNCCI in its efforts to have the country host the 12th World Chamber Congress. “It’s impressive that the government is helping us deal with matters of bilateral trade, with the intention of exploring business opportunities for our people who contribute to growth,” he said. Adan praised the role played by the KNCCI in the global arena. “We’re grateful for the strides being made by the KNCCI on issues of trade in the globe — attracting investment,” he said. Click here for the latest political news