Traffic management, crime fighting, policing, city planning and population dynamics are interrelated efforts that determine overall public safety in countries around the world. After the 2017 elections, a wave of insecurity hit Nairobi’s Central Business District. Of particular concern were the broad daylight muggings. Crime within Nairobi is mostly related to congestion. The Nairobi county government shouldered the blame, despite security being a national government function. Keen interest has grown towards policy interventions to address congestion. The Nairobi government, working with the national government and partners, can review existing legislation and policy frameworks on city population, enforcement and inspectorate, geo-spatial planning and traffic management. The frameworks would have to be operationalised in coordination with the enforcing agencies. Seamless coordination between the national and county governments in policy development and implications, especially in Nairobi, is a critical element in securing citizens and their property. The increase in congestion after the 2017 elections was mainly blamed on allowing hawkers, matatus and boda bodas into the CBD. Increase in population has a bearing on public security. Unplanned city spaces make policing the public difficult and provide safe havens to gangs. The broad daylight muggings were carried out by criminals who identified, trailed and pounced on their targets in crowded places. The sudden upsurge in population within the CBD made this possible. While barring hawkers and motorbikes from the city centre is amongst the raft of solutions for congestion, the county government directive barring public service vehicles access to the CBD requires critical examination. PSVs had been restricted to the CBD’s peripheries such as Westlands, Nyayo Stadium, Parklands. What this means is that passengers would have to walk between one to three kilometres to their workplaces or to take other PSVs across the city. The constrained security agents may not be able to guarantee their safety. Opportunistic criminal gangs might just be waiting for the operationalisation of this policy to have a field day at the expense of the public. PSVs are a menace in the CBD, mainly because they disobey traffic laws, causing unnecessary traffic jams. The introduction of matatu saccos has made it easy to trace errant crews and increased collective responsibility. What is lacking is enforcing discipline among PSV operators. Systemic corruption and conflict of interest by law enforcement agents, some of whom own the vehicles, make enforcement a tall order. Keeping PSVs out of the city will neither end traffic jams nor improve security. In fact, both will increase as police officers will be overstretched covering decentralised bus termini. Entry and exit points into and out of the city where the termini will be located will be sites of traffic mayhem as PSVs scramble to pick and drop passengers. The number of private vehicles within the CBD has increased over the years. These are the vehicles causing traffic jams in the CBD. Efforts to decongest the CBD should be directed at reducing the use of private vehicles. Such efforts must be convenient and pocket-friendly and should be comparable to the SGR services. The SGR has become the number one choice for people travelling to Mombasa. The city should provide an efficient public transport system coupled with subsidies for residents who car pool. What would happen if all parking were to be moved to the verges of the city and then the county government operates free transport from the parking into the city? This will reduce pedestrian exposure to insecurity as well as reduce traffic. The parking fees will be used to bankroll the public transport system. Meanwhile, private parking spaces will still be available within the CBD for those who want to use them.  Secretary general, Association of Corporate and Industrial Security Management Professionals of Kenya, and county security adviser, Turkana