President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday took the unprecedented step of publicly apologising to Kenyans for his role in the two divisive presidential elections that pushed Kenya to the brink of chaos. "If there was anything I said last year that hurt or wounded you, if I damaged the unity of this country in any way, I ask you to forgive me and to join me in repairing that harm," the President pleaded in his State of the Nation address to Parliament — to thunderous applause. Minutes after the address, Deputy President William Ruto also apologised, though he is said to privately oppose the unity deal between Uhuru and Opposition chief Raila Odinga. "In keeping with HE's statement, I WSR unreservedly apologise to anyone offended or hurt in anyway by what I have said or done at any time. Find it in your heart to forgive me. I have forgiven all those who wronged me. Let's embark on building bridges of friendship and unity," Ruto tweeted. Raila arrived at Parliament before Uhuru and was warmly welcomed and ushered to a VIP area. The August 8 and October 26, 2017, polls were marred by serious human rights violations, including unlawful killings, especially of opposition supporters. The state-funded Kenya National Commission on Human Rights estimated at least 92 people were killed and 247 others were injured and abused during the chaos. For the first time yesterday, Uhuru admitted they failed as leaders to safeguard the unity of the country as Kenya tittered on the precipice. Read: Uhuru makes up with Babu Owino A thoughtful, remorseful Uhuru warned that if Kenyans don’t put an end to what he termed unrestrained political competition, "it will put an end to Kenya." He regretted that in the heat of the campaigns last year, anger, malice, and hatred took centre stage and politics became a clash of irreconcilable enemies. "All of us, and in particular we leaders here, will have to admit that last year, we failed in our duty to preserve the unity of this country. And we must make amends...You saw the consequences: lives lost, property destroyed, our unity sapped," Uhuru said. Opposition leaders have been pushing for compensation to victims of the mayhem after the surprise truce between Uhuru and Raila and their famous handshake on March 9. Yesterday, the President termed Raila –– his erstwhile arch-rival –– a statesman for agreeing to cooperate, a rare accolade to the opposition leader. "I am not the only leader who deeply felt the need to restore unity: the Right Hon Raila Odinga, did so too. So, let me praise the statesmanship he showed when, on March 9 this year, he and I publicly committed to reconciliation, with the Kenyan people as our witnesses," Uhuru said to prolonged applause. He admitted there was not agreement on every contentious issue and said the path ahead would be challenging. Uhuru and William Ruto were indicted by the ICC in connection with the 2007-2008 post-election violence; both cases collapsed for lack of evidence. Also read: Forgive me too, Ruto tells Kenyans after Uhuru's State of the Nation speech Although he pledged that never again should Kenyan life be lost or their property destroyed because of politics, Uhuru admitted it required hard work. He asked all leaders to spend days and weeks and months after his address repairing the bonds that frayed last year. "Let us apologise for our words and for the anger and malice that Kenyans heard," Uhuru pleaded. He went on: "From Mandera to Maseno, from Mbita to Mvita, from Lodwar to Lunga Lunga, let us shake hands and embrace our neighbours and let us celebrate the diversity that is God’s gift to us." At this point, MPs — some known to be sworn enemies — began to happily shake hands in extraordinary camaraderie. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, who was incarcerated for allegedly insulting the President in the heat of last year's campaigns, stood up and greeted Uhuru. "Let every leader in the country reach out to our sons and daughters, and remind them that they have it in them to forge a Kenya that speaks gently, that criticises constructively and that embraces and respects dissent and competition as healthy and civilised ways of collaboration," Uhuru urged. In the unity deal, Uhuru and Raila identified a nine-point agenda and this week named a 14-member team to spearhead the deal. The issues include ethnic antagonism and competition, divisive elections, lack of a national ethos, inclusivity, devolution, safety and security, corruption, shared prosperity as well as respect for human and civil rights. Uhuru yesterday did not disclose details of that deal,as many had hoped. "Kenyans reacted with a surge of optimism to our meeting, because they wanted a return to unity. Our handshake invited Kenyans to rediscover what they had known all along: when all the politics is said and done, we are each other’s keeper," Uhuru said. The surprise handshake has radically altered the country's political landscape and is threatening to split Uhuru's Jubilee Party, after it divided NASA. Last week, Uhuru and Raila scoffed at those opposed to the deal and linked it to 2022 succession politics. Their stinging rebuke appeared targeted at DP Ruto's allies who have been expressing fears that Raila is plotting to infiltrate Jubilee and disrupt their succession plan. Yesterday, Uhuru warned that the politics of ethnicity which has brought Kenya very close to ruin must now come to an end. "Too many of our leaders have manipulated our ethnicities to seize power, and then exploited it to avoid accountability," he said. "We cannot afford another 50 years of farmers struggling to make a living, families without proper sanitation, families bankrupted by healthcare costs. We need change now, in this generation, so our children grow to adulthood in a totally different Kenya." In another surprise yesterday, Uhuru who had excoriated the Judiciary as crooks who overturned his election last year — asked the Judiciary to be more independent . Uhuru had vowed to fix the Judiciary after the Supreme Court nullified his victory in August. "To the Judiciary, we ask only that your independence be joined to even greater effort on your part to ensure that your arm of government attains the highest standards of conduct and integrity, and that it never loses sight of the interdependence of all arms and levels of government," Uhuru told the nation. Read: What Nasa, Jubilee politicians think of Uhuru's State of the Nation address Click here for the latest political news  