Opposition MCAs have given Governor Mike Sonko seven days to nominate Deputy Governor or he faces legal action. The ward representatives led by Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok argued that the county is in a “mess” because the governor lacks a deputy to advise him. “We are seeing how the county is, garbage everywhere, roads are pathetic and all these blames are directed at the governor. He needs a deputy to advise him and also do some of these jobs, especially supervisory,” Imwatok told a press conference at City Hall on Monday. Sonko found himself without a deputy following dramatic resignation of Polycarp Igathe in January. On March 9, the Supreme Court gave an advisory to Sonko and his Nyeri counterpart Mutahi Kahiga to nominate deputies. Kahiga became the governor following the death of Governor Wahome Gakuru. Read: Sonko likely to name Agnes Kagure as deputy governor The court gave the county bosses 14 days to nominate deputies and forward the names to the respective county assemblies for consideration within 60 days. Unlike Sonko who is yet to nominate a deputy, Kahiga has nominated Carol Karugu, whose name was approved by the assembly. She has already been sworn in. Lawyers argue that the Court’s advisory was not an order that the governor’s had to comply with, but Imwatok argued that the governor seems to have ignored or disregarded the advisory. “I don’t believe if the mess we are seeing in Nairobi would have here if Igathe was still the deputy. We need a deputy now to help the Governor do his work,” he said. Sonko has been criticized over the deplorable state of roads, garbage menace, growing number of street families and traffic gridlocks in the city. But he has defended himself, saying he was still in his early days in office and pleaded for more time to deliver on his pledges. Recently, Sonko said he was considering appointing a Kikuyu lady as his deputy. Imwatok said, “We don’t care about the tribe. Nairobi has many people, professionals. So what we want is a deputy. Business lady Agnes Kagure and former Kiambu woman representatives are said to be the front-runners for the seat. Also read: Igathe resigns as Deputy Governor, says Sonko doesn't trust him 