Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has proposed that investigations into alleged fraudulent purchase of maize at the National Cereals Board be conducted by a multi-agency team of detectives. He said he is aware investigations are already underway by officers from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission but more officers need to come on board due to the complexity of the matter. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Haji said detectives from the Kenya Revenue Authority, Department of Criminal Investigation and the Assets Recovery Agency be incorporated into the probe. “Due to nature, gravity & complexity of the investigations, DPP has proposed the investigations be undertaken by Multi-Agency Team of investigators comprising of officers from the @EACCKenya @DCI_Kenya @KRACare & Asset Recovery Agency (A.R.A) @InfoNcpb #NCPBInvestigations_ODPP,” Haji's office tweeted. The DPP further directed the EACC to furnish him with an update of the current status of the ongoing investigations into the maize scandal. The directive came hours after he confirmed on Sunday morning that the DCI had given him ten files related to the alleged Sh9 billion scandal at the National Youth Service. Read: NYS Scandal: DPP receives 10 files as DCI nails first suspects He said he was leading a team of experienced prosecutors to review the files in what he said was only phase 1 of the investigations. At least Sh1.9 billion was reportedly paid out by NCPB to 18 traders who disguised themselves as farmers. The payments were made at the expense of genuine farmers who are yet to be paid an outstanding Sh5 billion in maize deliveries. Other farmers did not even manage to deliver their produce because they were turned away by officials at NCPB depots who told them the stores were full. Eight senior managers have since been suspended at the NCPB and investigations launched on 59 others over their involvement in the collusion. The suspensions by Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyiampe came a day after NCPB Chief Executive Officer Newton Terer resigned from his position. Read: CEO Newton Terer resigns from NCPB amid probe on illegal maize imports More: PS Lesiyampe suspends eight NCPB bosses Click here for the latest political news