It has been cold and wet in Nairobi the past couple of weeks, and I am just about over it. This past weekend, we decided to fly out to Kilifi on a girls’ trip to get some much-needed sunshine, with fingers crossed that it would not rain the entire time. On the upside, it is low season now, which means hotel rates are at their lowest, but what good is it being by the beach if it pours all day? (Thankfully, we had good weather all weekend!) We decided to check into Silver Palm Spa and Resort, a grand beachfront property that’s barely a year old. The neatly manicured lawns are dotted with towering palm trees, offset by brightly coloured flowers and a statement pool that winds around the entire middle section of the resort. The property boasts 38 rooms, and the best part about the villa we checked into is that we were able to step right from the balcony of our living room and into the pool, from which I was able to swim around much of the premises. Our neighbouring villa had its own private pool overlooking the sea, and this pool came complete with a little island marked by a palm tree. The decor in the room and the rest of the resort is Swahili, with distinct modern touches. We stopped by Forodhani Beach Bar and Restaurant for lunch, starting with a delectable plate of crispy fried calamari followed by a fresh pan fried tuna with a tropical salad and roast potatoes. As we sat back to enjoy house cocktails, such as the Kilifi sunrise and a classic margarita, we saw a couple and their wedding party posing for photos underneath a patch of palm trees overlooking the ocean. If you are looking for a place to host your wedding, the reception or simply to take pictures along the coast, perhaps this might just be it! Dinner and breakfast at the main restaurant was a lovely buffet affair, but our most memorable meal at the hotel was at the teppanyaki grill, where we got to enjoy the theatrics of watching our food get prepared by the chef. We sampled everything from barracuda to chicken and prawns, prepared in a myriad of ingredients, such as lemon, soy sauce, black pepper, white wine and onions. The resort sits on a cliff overlooking the sea, which offers activities like boat rides that we unfortunately didn’t get to try. Silver Palm is in itself a great spot to just relax with family, friends or a partner, while enjoying the luxury trappings and the staff’s hospitality, and doing absolutely nothing. If you want to truly spoil yourself, however, their spa may well be the best along the Kenyan coast.  Location: Bofa Road, Kilifi Rating: 4.5 stars Contact: 0780 745837 Website: silverpalmkilifi.co.ke