Early marriages, sexual exploitation and male chauvinism have been cited as major stumbling blocks in efforts to improve the education of the girl child in Lamu county. Lamu women rep Ruweida Obbo says the situation could completely cripple the education of girls in the region if not promptly addressed. Speaking in when she led an exercise to distribute sanitary towels to school girls in Mokowe on Sunday,Obbo urged parents to invest in the education of the girl child since it was the only surest way that the community would unhinge itself from the claws of immense poverty witnessed all over. She cautioned parents against holding onto misleading cultural beliefs including forcing or coercing their young daughters into early marriages instead of sending them to school. Obbo said it was unfortunate that some parents were turning their daughters into sexual objects instead of protecting them as naturally expected. She said her office was already working with all concerned offices and stakeholders in order to bring an end to such practices and also have culprits brought to book. “Every girl must desire to live a better life. Let them know that there is a constitution that protects them.Dont die in silence,speak up. Parents must cheer their daughters to success. Invest in them and see the society transform. What do you gain from a few coins in the name of bride price when you would have spent your entire lifetime feasting from your daughter’s successful career. You educate a girl, you have educated a community, it’s the truth,” said Obbo. Lamu county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri who was also in attendance said all parents found culpable of allowing their girls to marry early instead of going to school shall also face the law. He said chiefs and their assistants have been tasked with going around villages to ensure all girls of school going age are indeed in class and not in marriages. “Education is free.Why must we continue to live in a society that doesn’t want to recognise the worth of a woman or girls.We shall make you see the way and we shall use the force of the law while we're at it,” said Kanyiri. Click here for the latest political news