The Judiciary has announced plans to establish more courts to handle employment and labour disputes. Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu on Friday said new courts will be set up in all the 47 counties. She spoke during the Employment and Labour Relations Court open day. The theme was sustaining Judiciary transformation. Mwilu said the new courts will ease backlog and will help to address the increasing number of employment and labour relation cases. Federation of Kenya Employers executive director Jacqueline Mugo said the Employment and Labour Relation Courts plays a major role in promoting industrial harmony and regulating relations between employers and their employees. Mugo praised the labour court for expediting settlement on employment and industrial disputes and directing parties to consider alternative dispute resolution methods. “Recently, we have witnessed instances where parties disobey court orders without justifiable reasons,” she said. “The employers are concerned with the trend that is slowly taking root in the executive, legislative public service and parastatals. Our leaders don’t seem to care about the disobedience of the court.” Mugo said to sustain transformation, ELRC should establish sound judicial jurisprudence on the various common issues it handles every day such as industrial actions, redundancies, disciplinary matters, termination and terminal benefits. She also called for the restoration of vacation or holidays for judges to allow them time to prepare and deliver judgements expeditiously. Meanwhile, a lawyer has challenged the mandatory requirements for persons eligible for admission as advocates. Lawyer Adrian Kamotho has faulted the rules insisting they have arbitrary imposed admission qualification, which are unknown to the Kenyan laws. According to Kamotho, the regulations are in violation of the Advocates Act and incompatible with the supreme law. “Failure by respondents to admit duly qualified persons as advocates in line with law constitutes a severe impediment to justice,” he says. He has accused Chief Justice David Maraga and Chief Registrar of the Judiciary and another of imposing the illegal requirements. Also Read: PSC, Judiciary to partner to speed up labour cases involving civil servants Click here for the latest political news