Deputy President William Ruto has told public servants to capitalise on the conducive political environment to deliver on performance targets. He said there will be no room for lazy officers. Ruto spoke during the launch of Rapid Results Initiative for the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affair held at the School of Government in Nairobi. Kenyans expect an open, responsive, transparent and accountable government that is accessible, he said. “President Uhuru Kenyatta has closed the gap between the government and the Opposition. This provides an enabling environment for civil servants to deliver,” Ruto said. Read:Ruto warns against graft Big Four agenda Cabinet secretaries Margaret Kobia (Public Service), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Rashid Mohammed (Sports) and Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh were present. Ruto said he was confident the socio-economic goals would be implemented within strict timelines. The DP said the government’s Big Four agenda – manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security – will go a long way in improving Kenyans lives once fully implemented. Ruto said the public service is key in the implementation of the Big Four agenda. He asked public officers not to focus on processes and procedures, saying results were important. Ruto said issues of the last General Election were now behind us. The DP said it was the responsibility of civil servants to serve all Kenyans equally irrespective of how they voted. 100 days goal Kobia said her ministry has lined up 30 Rapid Results Initiative goals to be implemented in the next 100 days, which were in line with the Big Four agenda. She said the programmes, most of which would be carried out by the National Youth Service, were aimed at creating jobs for millions of Kenyans. “I am optimistic that public servants will exploit the enabling environment to implement the government’s agenda for the benefit of Kenyans,” Kobia said. Shebesh said the ministry would work closely with county governments to ensure that Jubilee’s Big Four agenda is implemented smoothly. Also Read:Uhuru, Ruto's office perceived to be most corrupt - Infotrack Click here for the latest political news