Kenya Simbas have lined up to to play South African provincial sides, Boland and Western Province as part of their build up towards the Rugby World Cup qualifiers The Simbas were due to play either Portugal. Spain or Germany but due the World cup qualifiers happening in Europe at the same time with the Africa zone the union has been forced to shift down south for the important build up matches. The matches against the duo will be played in either the first week or second week of June. The Simbas and Boland met at the 2014 Vodacom Cup with the Simbas wining 18-17 while they in their fixture against Western Province in the same competition the Simbas lost 65-29. Kenya finished seventh out of eight in the Vodacom Cup Southern section but learnt valuable lessons from the Cape Town tournament. The high altitude camp which was earmarked for Nanyuki for next month has been brought forward to next week. The team will have mental and skill session with the British Army Training Unit (Batuk) for three days before flying out to Uganda and playing in the first leg of the Elgon Cup later in the month. Team manager Wangila Simiyu said the team will have training session at Barclays Club on Saturday as the 35-man squad fine-tunes their preparations for the opening international match. Simiyu said the squad is a fine blend of experience and youth and competition for places is expected to be intense as they seek to name a formidable 23-man traveling party to Uganda for the first leg. “It’s going to be quite competitive. A lot of players put their hands up and we want to take the best to Kampala and retain the Elgon Cup and qualify for the Rugby World Cup,” added Simiyu. He said there is no room for error in the qualifiers with every team putting their best foot forward. “It going to be tough. All the five teams involved want to qualify. Some nations will bring their professional based players and play build up matches so we must be at our best to get the sole ticket for qualification.” Kenya starts the journey away to Morocco on June 23 before hosting Zimbabwe and Uganda in Nairobi on June 30 and July 7 respectively. There will be a one-month break to pave way for Sevens World Cup before the qualifiers resume for the last two rounds when Kenya will take on Tunisia on Saturday August 11 at home and head to Namibia for the final game on Saturday August 18.