 Boundary disputes between Narok and Nakuru counties have stalled settlement of land buyers in Natooli Enaibor, Naivasha. Surveyors from the two counties have been summoned to end the impasse around the vast Agricultural Development Corporation land. A section has been sold to pastoralists. Narok officials say part of the land is in their county. Allocation was under way to members of the Natooli Enaibor Ajijik Company, which had bought some acres, but stopped because of the row. On Friday, scores of armed police were called in to eject more than 2,000 squatters who had invaded the parcel. There had been perennial clashes over ownership — with some squatters staking a claim. More than 20 people have been killed in two years. Benson Karbolo, a director with the Natooli Enaibor Ajijik Company, yesterday said the 200 members of the firm were to benefit. “There is a row between Nakuru and Narok. We hope this will be addressed in due course,” he said. Karbolo thanked the government for evicting squatters. Some had stayed on the farm for more than 10 years. “We bought 1,600 acres from the ADC. Our members couldn’t access them because of the squatters. We’re happy justice has prevailed,” he said. Some squatters, however, protested. Shadrack Kamaamia, leader of a splinter group, accused police of acting against a court order and failing to allow them to harvest their crops. “We were shocked. Armed police arrived without giving us a notice. We’ll seek legal redress,” he said. Kamaamia said he owns a piece of the land and has an order that stopped their eviction, pending conclusion of a case they filed. Naivasha police boss Samuel Waweru yesterday said genuine owners have taken over the land and settlement will continue once the area of contention is resolved. He led the squatters’ removal. Waweru said the operation was “very peaceful” and the families “cooperated”. “There was no violence. All the squatters complied and moved out as directed,” he said, denying knowledge of an injunction.