I drive to Mike’s place wearing nothing but lingerie underneath an overcoat with heels. He’s on the phone when I get there. I walk around, keeping my heels and coat on. He doesn’t seem in a hurry to get off the phone. I slowly unbutton my coat and let it fall to the ground. After that he wraps up his phone call very quickly. “Wow!” he says. He tosses the device and comes towards me. He wastes no time and practically tears the little I have on as he steers me towards his bedroom. Well, so much for saying hello. “Hi baby!” I say with a large grin as I come up for air 20 minutes later. He gives me a sidelong glance as he lights up a cigarette. “Those things will kill you!” I say wrapping a bed sheet around me. He holds it out towards me. “You want a drag?” he asks. I take the stick and hesitantly take a drag of the cigarette. I immediately go into a coughing fit. He laughs and takes the stick back. “You’re not doing it right,” he says. “I don’t want to do it right,” I respond wondering why I tried it in the first place. “Have you ever smoked weed?” he asks. “Yes,” I respond. “Did you inhale directly into your lungs?” he asks. I nod. “Ok. With a cigarette, it’s different,” he continues. “You try and inhale the smoke into your lungs by taking a deep breath. So you don’t irritate your throat and trigger the cough reflex.” He takes a drag and demonstrates what he means. “Try it,” he says. I take the cigarette and try again. This time I don’t put as much smoke into my mouth. I take the cigarette out of my mouth and take a deep breath. I feel the smoke filling up in my lungs. This time I don’t cough. But whoa! I feel dizzy. I let the smoke out slowly. “Damn! It has a rush!” I say. Mike looks at me with envy. “Enjoy it babe, it won’t last,” he says. “What do you mean? I’ll just have another go,” I say putting the cigarette back into my mouth and taking a longer drag. “It won’t last after your body becomes accustomed to nicotine,” he clarifies. “Maybe your morning cigarette will come close but it will never feel like you do now.” So this is why there’s all the fuss about cigarettes? This first drag? How long does one enjoy it? A week? A month? When does it stop being enjoyable and simply becomes a habit? “I read somewhere that heroin is like that,” I tell him. “After your first hit you’re hooked and you always try to chase the dragon to get that feeling again.” “Chase the dragon?” he asks. “What’s that?” “As heroin rolls across a tin foil, the smoke moves with it and looks like a dragon,” I explain. “The user follows the smoke with their straw hence chasing the dragon.” “Why do you even know this?” he asks. “This is your first cigarette and you can’t inhale but you know how to chase the dragon???” I laugh. “I’m an editor of a magazine. You come across a lot of things when you do research,” I respond as I take another drag. “We did a story on rehab centres once.” Mike hands me his coffee cup to flicker the ash in because he can’t be bothered to go get an ashtray. I try and imitate all the super stars I’ve seen in the movies as I flick the ash into the cup. It’s funny how smoking makes you feel very sophisticated yet there’s nothing sophisticated about it. It’s downright dirty. Ash in a cup? Yuck!