After
a bumpy, six-hour ride from Nyahururu town, Laikipia county, to Suguta Marmar,
Samburu county, we set foot at a primary school on the border of the two
counties. We are ushered into a well-fenced
farm inside the compound of Suguta Consolata Primary School. Pupils in uniform
and in groups of five are tending to vegetable gardens surrounded by mango and
orange trees. School
director Albert Letaon, a Catholic priest at Suguta Marmar Catholic Church, says
he found the place unfit for agriculture nine years ago. “This is a very rocky
area, and after clearing all the rocks, we had to bring red soil from Sopili in
Laikipia to enable us introduce vegetable farming to young pastoralists,” he
said. In
most parts of Samburu county, horticulture is not widely practised, given the
nomadic and pastoral lifestyle of the residents, which also influences their
diet. Father Letaon says he is working
with the school’s teachers to change locals’ attitude towards vegetable farming.
They are also encouraging a balanced diet by getting pupils to take part in making
practical gardens, so they can be agricultural ambassadors to the community
back at home. “To achieve this, we
introduced practical farming lessons to willing pupils from class four to eight.
The pupils are grouped into five and each group allocated a garden and guided
through the vegetable planting process,” he said. Water is not a problem as
there is a borehole in the compound, which serves the church and the school. Letaon
adds that since Samburu is a semi-arid area, the water pumped from the borehole
is used for irrigation rather than depending on rains, which are unreliable. HEALTHY
DIET Pupils
in the school have adopted the agricultural activity and are excited that they
are already village role models in their backyards. Class eight’s Yvonne Safari
is proud of realising the importance of irrigation in horticultural farming. “We
were introduced to vegetable farming when we were in class four. I have learnt
every bit of it. Farming is way better than pastoralism,” she said. Safari said she transfers her knowledge from school to her
vegetable garden at home, where she teaches her parents and siblings about the
importance of eating a healthy diet. “I am encouraging my
neighbours at home to grow kales, spinach and onions for family consumption. I
teach them how best to do it and it is easy since they take only take two to
three months to mature,” she said. Nanel Lenyapian’s family lost
all their livestock due to the drought that hit the county last year. “My
father’s animals succumbed to drought, leaving us with no source of livelihood.
But if we take up farming, we will be able to put something on the table,” she
said. Teacher
Burton Wefwafwa said once the kales are ready, they are prepared during lunch
and supper and served to the pupils to improve on their diet. The surplus is
chopped and dried under the sun and stored for future consumption. “When
we harvest surplus kales, we take them to a common place and wash them, then
soak the vegetables in warm water mixed with vinegar for preservation. Then they
are grated to small pieces,” he said. The grated product is
then dried in the sun and takes three to five days to dry, depending
on the water content of the vegetable. “Dried kales have a shelf life of up to
three months. When preparing them, just soak the kales in water for five
minutes then cook, it’s that easy. You can even mix them with a few fresh
ones and you can’t tell the difference,” Wefwafwa said. SURPLUS
SOLD The
teacher said if they have enough in storage, surplus fresh kales are sold to
institutions and vegetable vendors in the nearby Suguta Marmar trading centre,
generating revenue for the school. He said they are now adding
carrots, garlic and cabbages in the school garden, and it will expose the
pupils to a wider variety of horticulture. Experts say women and children are the most affected by climate
change in many developing countries and are more vulnerable to natural
calamities, such as drought and floods. Isiah Lekesike, the project
officer for Livelihoods and Agriculture at Caritas Maralal, said the
introduction of farming in Suguta Consolata Primary School is a way of
empowering girls, since men in pastoralist communities control the main source
of income. “Livestock is the main source
of livelihood in pastoralist communities and is controlled by men,” the project
officer said. He said that after succeeding in Suguta, such projects will be
introduced to other schools in Samburu county to ensure that vegetable farming
is embraced not only for nutritional value but also for economic gains at
family level. The
school also keeps dairy cows for milk production and chicken for eggs to
supplement their school diet.