Jubilee MPs yesterday said the party is ready to face NASA chief Raila Odinga in 2022. They spoke during a fundraiser presided over by DP William Ruto in Kapsowar, Marakwet West. Siaya Senator James Orengo is reported to have said on Saturday Raila will run for President again. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said they suspected Raila was scheming to square it off with Ruto at the ballot. He said the handshake between Raila and several key leaders in the country is a calculated move for a 2022 presidential contest. “I’ve known all through Raila is ready for 2022. I want to tell him we’re also ready for that competition,” Murkomen said. President Uhuru Kenyatta has told politicians to stop 2022 politics. But Murkomen said it is not bad to talk about 2022 because they are elected to serve for five-year terms and will be reelected or voted out based on their development record. “When it walks like a duck, quacks like a duck then it is duck. Raila is ready for 2022 and it will be an easy go for Ruto. We will only wait for the last two months and start campaigning because we know all his weaknesses,” he said. “The truth is out. We’ve been asking ourselves why Raila’s handshakes have been selective.” Read:Ruto avoids Kabarak visit talk, calls for unity among Kenyans Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said the Kikuyu community will support Ruto. “We will be happy if Raila vies in 2022. He will be the easiest man to beat. We now know there is more to do with 2022 in Raila’s handshakes than uniting the country,” he said. Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba said it is time Central backs Ruto after he supported Uhuru for 10 years. Ruto insisted Jubilee will not entertain politics aimed at creating positions for a few individuals. “We will not be distracted. We are determined on the President’s Big Four agenda. Any other agenda will be set aside,” he said. Also Read:Leave my father out of politics, Gideon tells Ruto supporters over aborted Kabarak visit Other MPs at the function were William Kisang (Marakwet West), Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East), Daniel Rono (Keiyo South), Jane Chebaibai (Elgeyo Marakwet), Kipsengeret Koros (Sigoin Sigowett), Zachary Thuku (Kinangop), Lydia Aika (Taita Taveta), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi), John Kiarie (Dagorethi South) and Oscar Sudi (Kapsaret). Governors Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu) also attended. Click here for the latest political news