Towering Wazito forward Piston Mutamba netted his first goal for Harambee Stars as the national team beat Equatorial Guinea Nzalang Nacional 1-0 in a friendly match played at the Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos. Mutamba, who opened his account for the youthful U-23 side, Emerging Stars in a friendly match against Uzbekistan in Marchm, found the back of the net in the 73rd minute to hand head coach Sebastien Migne his maiden win with Stars. Stars were eying recovery following a 1-0 defeat to a lowly ranked Swaziland on Friday in match characterised by wastefulness in front of the goal. Prior to the match, Migne rested a number of players who faced Swaziland with Gor Mahia custodian Boniface Oluoch’s place being by Posta Rangers’ Patrick Matasi and Leopards fast-rising centre-half Michael Kibwage relinquishing his place to a unattached Musa Mohammed, who wore the captain’s armband. Kariobangi Sharks’ holding midfielder Patillah Omotto was replaced by FK Tirana’s Kenneth Muguna while Sharks Ovella Ochieng was benched in favour of Wazito forward Piston Mutamba. Stars struggled to string passes and never seemed a threat for the visiting team despite enjoying the home advantage and support from the sparsely seated fans who turned up to drum support. The rough playing surface partially contributed to the poor passing as players from either sides struggled to control the ball. The visitors were unlucky not be awarded a penalty in the 21st minute as Ndong Basila went down on a challenge from Joash Onyango. The Gor Mahia centre-half clearly brought down Ndong in the area but the centre referee booked him for simulation amid protests from the visiting players who protested the decision. A minute later, Francis Kahata’s long range strike went wide with the goalkeeper Felipe Ovono well beaten. The two sides remained dull in the remaining minutes of the game with both goalkeepers largely untested. On resuming the final half, Migne introduced Ovella for Muguna as he sought to beef up his striking front. The inclusion of the pacy winger breathed life into Stars’ striking department with fine dribbles and runs which troubled Guinea’s back line. Ovella finally delivered the much sought assist to Mutamba in the 72nd minute where he left his marker before unleashing a lowly cross which Mutamba easily send past the line to break the deadlock and record his first goal with the senior team. Musa Mohammed was rested with a suspected shoulder injury and his place taken by Kibwage in the final ten minutes of the game as Stars resorted to defend the slim advantage which Guinea nearly cancelled in the added minutes as an header from Fernandez Esteban hit the woodwork from a foul with an advancing Matasi beaten. Click here for the latest political news