Once upon a time, a frog fell in a vessel of hot water, which was still on a gas stove. The frog still did not try to jump out of the vessel, instead just stayed in it. As the temperature of the water started to rise, the frog managed to adjust its body temperature accordingly. As the water started to reach the boiling point, the frog was no longer able to keep up and manage its body temperature. The frog tried to jump out of the vessel but with water temperature reaching its boiling point, the frog couldn’t make it. What was the reason that a frog couldn’t make it? Will you blame the hot water for it? The frog couldn’t make it due to its own inability to decide when it had to jump out. We all need to adjust according to situations, but there are times we need to face the situation and take the appropriate action when we have the strength to do so before it’s too late. It has been a depressing two weeks reading the dailies with unending reports of alleged misappropriation of public funds. One feels frustrated as a Kenyan to read of such reports instead of development. Over the years, stealing public funds has resulted in the country losing money that could otherwise have been used to deliver services to the common man. Hospitals don’t have essentials such as drugs because someone somewhere wanted a shortcut to make easy money. Roads are bad because someone decided to take a cut, while unemployment is still high because a few individuals continue to steal funds meant for youth empowerment. Right now, we have investigations at the National Cereals and Produce Board, the National Youth Service and Kenya Power. They reveal an appetite for theft among a few individuals. One wonders how heartless one can be to steal money meant for food and youth empowerment. And it is not only at the top: A recent audit at KPLC revealed employees are at the center of corruption. They are colluding with unscrupulous businessmen to steal from the company through shady deals. Corruption has a devastating effect on the nation’s progress, especially in public service. It costs government billions of shillings every year, through loss of revenue and revolving funds that could have been spent on delivering services. As a country, we are currently in hot water like the frog and as the water continues to boil, we must make a decision on whether to jump or perish in the water. We are witnessing some level of commitment in the fight against corruption from various institutions, especially the Judiciary. The President continues to express his commitment to the fight on corruption and is getting daily updates on the investigations. His public utterances that no one will be left to steal from the public must now must bear fruit. But this will not be possible when citizens collude with public servants to reap where they did not sow. Those doing business with government must rise above greed and ensure their operations are aboveboard. Where resources are scarce, corruption is a demonic vice threatening to tear apart our nation’s economic fabric and it must be exorcised with a multi-level approach through civic education, an improved legal framework and strengthening of both public and private sector institutions. In short, corruption is not a government problem only, as the private sector is deeply rooted in it. We must, therefore, look at these institutions and see what their possible weaknesses are and how they can be overcome. We should not allow this water to continue boiling while we are immersed in it. This will only destroy our beloved nation. The writer is a political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda