As guns start going silent, signalling the end of decades of war in Somalia, debate on the exit of foreign forces that have been fighting to liberate Somalia is gaining momentum. Early this year, the Federal Government of Somalia and Amisom, the UN and the EU established a Transition Core Group to oversee the exit of foreign troops. Deputy Force Commander Major General Tai Gituai said the draft transition document has been discussed and the AU agreed on it in Brussels a few weeks ago. Discussions are ongoing on working out modalities of implementation. “The focus on future is the transition plan, which is purely driven by the Somali government because they view that there is stability and reorient us on how we can let them take care of their security. But it will involve lots of support,” Tai said. He said the transition will have to adopt a comprehensive approach to security, where they liberate an area and carry out security sector reforms before it is handed over. On gelling of the SNA and simulating it into one unit, given majority of the forces are being trained by different countries, Tai said mentoring will be key. “Those trained in places like Baidoa should most likely be deployed there,” he said, adding that officers cadres were being trained by the British, whereas the the rest have been trained by different countries, including Turkey. So far, a drawdown of 1,000 troops has been done, and in October, another 1,000 is expected to leave, as per the UN Security Council resolutions. The drawdown is seen as a move to let Somalis handle own security by transferring liberated areas and ground held by foreign troops to the Somalia National Army. But many factors stand in the way of building pillars to a stronger national army for Somalia that will take over when Amisom exit. These include clan dynamics, scarce resources, systematic issues like corruption, perceived in-country injustices, culture, competing religious and social ideologies. Mogadishu mayor Abdirahman Omar Osman (Eng Yarisow) said: “A brother can help you for a while but not forever. But the transition should be gradual and in phases so we don’t have a backlash.” He said the country is facing unique challenges and that the Amisom forces should stick around until they fully professionalise their force. He said Amisom wasn’t getting the needed logistics support, making wiping out al Shabaab take longer. Yarisow said the war against terrorists is a global phenomenon that needs global solutions. ‘DELAY TROOPS WITHDRAWAL’ Joakim Mwamburi, the fourth brigade commander of Kenyan forces in Sector 2, wants the withdrawal delayed until there are an equal number of SNA troops ready to take up areas under foreign forces, cautioning that hasty withdrawal will be detrimental. “All our efforts and the blood we have spilt in this country will go down the drain in the event of the drawdown if the specifics are not addressed,” he said. To build a Somali army that will be able to take over and hold ground even after Amisom exit, Mwamburi said first Somalia has to overcome its clan dynamics. He proposed integration of clans from regional levels, as opposed to from national level. “The integration, however, should start right from the district level then to the regions. Those units can then be merged at the top to form a national army,” he said. Amisom head Francisco Madeira said unless there is any change to the withdrawal resolution, Amisom will have no option but to implement a further drawdown by October. He said the previous drawndown of 1,000 troops in December had an effect on the operations, as forward operation bases were shut down. “Somalia is moving in that direction of taking care of own security, but they need time and our presence here, and lots of support in terms of building their security sector and governance institutions,” he said, adding that they need hardware, training on coordination of the army and control. The Amisom military component in Somalia is in six sectors, covering south and central Somalia: Ugandan troops in Sector 1 (Banadir and Lower Shabelle), Kenyan forces 2 (Lower and Middle Jubba),  Ethiopia 3 (Bay, Bakool and Gedo), Djiboutian 4 (Hiiraan and Galgaduud), and Burundia 5 (Middle Shabelle). The recently formed sector 6 has combined troops from Burundi, Ethiopia and Kenya. It is incharge of Kismayu region.