The Kenya Forest Service management and its board are to blame for rampant depletion of forest cover, a task-force has said. It has unearthed massive corruption and a system replete with deep-rooted illegal practices. The  team wants the two forestry wings held to account. Its findings are contained in a report released yesterday and a brown envelop handed to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko The envelope is said to contain high-profile names and evidence of those who have plundered forest resources. The team was headed by Green Belt Movement chairperson Marion Kamau. It was formed in March to help the country restore its depleted forest cover. Must read : Forests task force wants KFS board out, lifestyle audit on senior officials The KFS is mired in corruption and incompetence, the report says. "These have made it impossible for the KFS to tame the destruction of the environment," Kamau said yesterday when briefing DP William Ruto at his Karen office, Nairobi. Ruto unveiled the taskforce on March 5, days after the government imposed a 90-day moratorium on logging. The team has also put KFS officials on the spot for violating the law by not issuing timber licences to selected sawmillers. Some officers issue letters to the millers without clearly stipulating terms and conditions as provided in law. In some instances, the report says, the KFS abandoned open tendering to award forest materials and opted for direct allocations. On March 12, several senior KFS officers were asked to step aside to allow investigations. They included Emilio Mugo (chief conservator), Esther Keige (corporation secretary), Victor Kobia (procurement), Wasike Simiyu (head of plantation) and Patrick Nyagah (head of finance). Kobia and Keige were reinstated by a labour court. Some 26 other senior foresters have either gone on compulsory leave or been interdicted. Yesterday, Ruto commended the team for coming up with the report. He said environment issues have become a national and international concern. It calls for "coherent and punitive measures" to stop degeneration, the DP said. "I commit to you that the recommendations will be implemented. I appreciate the fact that some decisions would be pretty difficult to make, but they will have to be done," he said. Read : Tobiko orders KFS to replace officers in forest stations Ruto said the government could hire the National Youth Service and the KFS in an aggressive replanting of indigenous trees for at least three years "to help our forest cover regenerate." The implementation matrix of the taskforce report will be presented to the President in 10 days. The task-force says the Forest Service is marred by "lack of accountability, unethical behaviours and limited capacity”. Kenya is fast losing its indigenous trees because of illegal settlement of squatters in forests, the report says. This was "unfair, inadequate, inappropriate and prone to abuse." It says. The board and management have "been unable to stem [the problem] and, in some instances, have been directly involved in systematised corruption practices”. "By abetting rampant corruption and abuse of office, they have systematically executed plunder and pillaging of our water towers and bear responsibility for the bringing of our environment to the precipice." the team says. Later yesterday, the report was handed over to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko at the NHIF office. Environment PS Charles Sunkuli and Chief Administration Secretary Mohamed Elmi were present. The government plans to have at least 10 per cent forest cover by 2022 as part of the measures undertaken to mitigate climate change. Currently, forests only cover 7.24 per cent of Kenya’s land mass. The Constitution envisages at least 10 per cent by 2030. The report says some KFS officers are, however, dedicated to their work, despite operating under difficult conditions. In some instances, they bear the brunt of corruption cartels through victimisation. The team adds that illegal logging of indigenous trees is a major threat to forests and is rampant in key areas, with cedar being the most sough-after. "Destruction of indigenous forest was  observed in many critical areas due to illegal squatters, changing lifestyles of forest dwellers, abuse of the Plantation Establishment and Livelihood Improvement Scheme, unclear forests zoning, introduction of irregular settlements and large-scale public infrastructure developments." the report says. The report says the limited capacity of the enforcement and compliance division of the KFS and the lack of clear separation in the forest protection and exploitation functions have made law enforcement difficult. The report also unearthed inadequate coordination among agencies in the environment and forest sector. This results in duplication of roles and inefficient management, it says. Most counties have also not signed and put to use transition implementation plans to facilitate the transfer of functions assigned to them. Also read : Tobiko names task force on forest protection, promises support Click here for the latest political news