Some 700 families have been displaced in Nyakach subcounty, Kisumu county, after the River Sondu Miriu burst its banks. Homes were flooded on Thursday despite the rain having subsided for a few days in the subcounty. Residents suspect it might have rained heavily in the Rift Valley and the water made its way to the river. The worst-hit areas include Nyakwere, Nyawalo, Nyongonga, Nyakoda, Nyadina and Obange in Nyakach West. Deputy county commissioner Cornelius Sangura said authorities were prepared for any eventuality and no casualty has been reported.  ACCOMMODATION HEADACHE He said the river broke its banks three days before and some residents had already moved to higher ground. Sangura said some homesteads have been marooned by floodwaters but authorities are doing their best to evacuate everyone. “As we speak, already some people are being evacuated from the affected areas to safer grounds and those near rivers have also been advised to move to higher ground,” he told the Star. Residents who have been sheltering in schools after they were displaced more than two weeks ago have been asked to seek other accommodations. Schools have reopened for second term. “We are urging the affected victims to integrate amongst themselves and others to go to their relatives’ places, which is safe for them for the time being,” Sangura said.  HELPLESS He said authorities are mobilising resources to help the victims and relief food will be distributed. Area MCA George Oluoch appealed for help from well-wishers for the 700 families in six evacuation centres. He said they need food, blankets and mosquito nets. Oluoch said many families continue to lose their homes and have been left helpless and homeless. “Two weeks ago, when we had floods about 10 homestead were marooned and those people are still seeking assistance for their houses to be rebuilt. Now more are still losing more houses, which is unfortunate,” he said. More than 1,500 families in Kisumu county were displaced by flash floods last month after the River Nyando burst its banks following a downpour. Nyakach was among the four subcounties worst hit. Directorate of special programmes Ruth Odinga said the county had mapped out flood-prone areas and set up humanitarian centres. The county has at least 25 evacuation centres in the seven subcounties.