Sins of the past have finally caught up with five former public officials, who were this week jailed for crimes committed when they called the shots in high offices. That was then under the now-defunct local governments. Ex-Nairobi City Council officials John Gakuo (town clerk), Mary Ngethe (legal secretary), Alexander Musee (chairman of the tender committee) and Sammy Kirui (Local Government PS), were on Tuesday handed three-year-jail terms, a day after a former Makueni district chief accountant was also found guilty of misconduct. The Nairobi group was jailed by chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti, while the then Makueni district accountant Wycliff Mitema was found guilty by Anti-Corruption Court magistrate Lawrence Mugambi. Gakuo, who earned praise for streamlining City Hall’s revenue collection during his 2004-2009 tenure, has now become one of the biggest fish to land in jail over misconduct in public office. He also garnered the love of city residents for cleaning and beautifying the city. In February, Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko appointed Gakuo to chair the city’s Regeneration Committee, on the strength of his gains as Town Clerk. Gakuo was, however, on Wednesday found guilty of abuse of office, for his alleged laxity in stopping Sh283 million loss that arose from plans by the now-defunct Nairobi City Council to purchase land for a new cemetery. City Hall paid Sh283 million for the 119-acre piece, yet its true value was Sh30 million. Magistrate Ogoti ruled that Gakuo and Kirui knew that documents used in the procurement process were false, but failed to take any action. Their co-accused Mary Ngethe, a former city council Legal Secretary, and Alexander Musee were also found guilty of knowingly giving false information about the same. Ngethe and Musee were sentenced to three years in prison each. Ngethe was also fined Sh52 million. Their conviction, alongside Mitema’s, has raised hope in some Kenyans over the possibility of justice being served in the numerous scandals that have plagued the country and cost billions. The Nairobi four join two of their former City Hall colleagues — Former Local Government ministry procurement officer Boniface Okerosi Misera and Land surveyor Cephas Kamande Mwaura — who were in March sentenced to two years in jail, and fined Sh77 million over the cemetery land scandal.   