Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has asked city residents to be patient with him as he works to restore the city to its lost glory. The governor, who on Sunday made impromptu visits to various estates in Nairobi to evaluate road repairs, said he will not entertain critics. "I’m appealing for patience from Nairobi residents as we strive to fix the dilapidated roads in Nairobi even as we wait for the financial year in order to cover all areas that are in need of our attention," Sonko said. Read: [Speech] I'll fix Nairobi's problems, Sonko says, pledges Sh400m for wards Read also: Uhuru to Sonko: Hire youths to clean Nairobi, drop cash-hungry contractors Sonko has in recent days come under sharp criticism over the poor state of roads in the CBD. The governor has also been on the spot over poor waste management in the city that has seen several city backyards turn into dumping sites. The governor has persistently blamed his predecessor Evans Kidero over the woes that continue to bedevil the city. He said Kidero left behind a rotten system full of cartels but said that he is determined to deal with them. In a sure show of walking the talk, Sonko’s administration has started recarpeting a number of roads in the CBD with the busy Tom Mboya Street being among the first to be given a face-lift. Construction works are also ongoing on Ukwara Lane and the busy Railways Bus Terminal. Sonko said the construction at Railways termini includes fixing the drainage system that was a major cause of flooding during the rainy season. "So far, the rehabilitation of Gwasi Road, Sheikh Karume Road and Kilome Road in the CBD has been completed as we hasten our efforts to complete 20 other roads in the CBD," he said. Other roads that are earmarked for recarpeting include Redile Road, Mfangano Street, Mfangano Lane, Wakulima Road, Nkuruma Lane and Monrovia Lane. The Governor said the rehabilitation of roads has been extended beyond the Central Business District to residential estates. He said City engineers are currently reworking on the busy Matopeni Road in Kayole that is a key link road in the area. At the same time, Sonko announced that plans are at advanced stage to have new bus terminus to be operational. "Our focus is to have functional infrastructure in Nairobi. With these new centres, we will be able to reduce the chaotic traffic congestion within Nairobi," Sonko said. Meanwhile, Devolution Executive Vesca Kagongo said City Hall is consolidating efforts to clean the City through proper garbage collection. She said the County has for the last two weeks increased the frequency of garbage collection in all the Wards. "The devolution department, through the local MCAs, has identified 20 youth in each Ward who will be responsible for cleaning and collecting garbage," Kagongo said. She said the anti-dumping enforcement team has also been able to arrest, prosecute and close down hotels that have been notorious in dumping garbage within the CBD. According to the executive, garbage collection will be scaled up from the current 2,000 tonnes per day to 2,500 tonnes per day in the next three months. Read: State takes over key Nairobi county functions, KDF picks garbage More: Nema to train 100 Nairobi staff for city clean-up Click here for the latest political news