As we celebrate Africa’s Day, it is timely to say something about her leaders. Every other day, we read of African leaders attacking one another, stealing from public coffers, scrambling over country’s wealth and plunging the country and ordinary people into even greater depths of poverty and despair. When African leaders stumble, they take people to hell and block their way to green pastures, without which they lack food and starve to death. Unable to attack those who create their problems, people direct their anger at whomever they can safely attack and kill, including their parents, husbands, wives and children. When seeking an election, often through rigging, leaders become like scorpions that sting and kill masses and in the process, make the country commit progressive suicide until the day of final implosion. And because leaders are always at war and impoverishing the country, the economy is always regressing, as people get poorer, sicker, more ignorant and antagonistic with one another. Though Africa’s four key problems — bad leadership, bad system, endemic corruption and negative ethnicity — generate most poverty for people, bad leadership is the worst and most responsible for the growth of the other problems. Indeed, without progressive selfless leaders, people can forget solving the problems they face every day. Apart from blocking people’s way to pastures, like the Biblical King Herod, they trace and send their ‘soldiers’ to look for and kill any person who may threaten them by offering better leadership. Tom Mboya, JM Kariuki, Robert Ouko and young leaders such as Titus Adungosi and Karimi Nduthu were killed because, like Jesus Christ, their leadership threatened those in power and had to be eliminated. African leaders cannot eradicate corruption, the millstone that daily sinks the country into the depths of debilitating poverty. Instead of truly fighting graft, these politicians accommodate the corrupt from their communities. To them, corruption is not an intolerable evil, but a means of distributing wealth, secretly embraced but condemned publicly. Instead of prosecuting the corrupt and the rich, leaders protect and perpetuate their graft. Many wonder why persons unknown for fighting corruption are given anti-graft jobs, while good people, well-known for their public condemnation and crusade against corruption are never given a chance. Apart from cohabiting with corruption, African leaders are also terrible enemies of peace, which they violate, abuse and negate through negative ethnicity. They employ it to dehumanise and demonise persons from other communities, whose peace they hate as they fish in the troubled waters of negative ethnicity. They also use negative ethnicity to mobilise their masses for internal exploitation and oppression. And although these leaders say they are committed to unify the nation at the expense of individual interests of power, which is their secret ambition, they are inclined towards politics of negative ethnicity and ethnic mobilisation, and cannot therefore unite the country without the ideology of nationalism. These people are not driven by the desire to unite the country but by self-interest, enrichment and desire for aggrandisement. They are not patriotic, but individuals who only work for themselves. Nor are they champions of the truth, whom we can rely on to know where they are leading the country. We are always left guessing. One European diplomat told me that President Daniel Moi disowned a statement he made against them when he met the envoys privately. In the same manner, political leaders will say one thing for public consumption but pursue a different policy. Lying to people is in their nature. This is why we can never develop or progress economically and democratically. Ultimately, these leaders are lions and meat-eaters, who cannot offer justice and development to sheep and other herbivores. To eliminate the jungle society, we must eliminate carnivore-leadership that allows meat eaters to feed on herbivores.      