Religious organisations want the number of elected state officers reduced to curb the wage bill. At a joint forum in Nairobi yesterday, the clergymen said there was need to reduce constituencies from 290 to 150. They also want counties slashed from 47 to 16. "The counties should be clustered into viable economic blocs," Ufungamano-Joint Forum for Religious Organisations secretary general Charles Wambugu said. Read: New Bill to raise number of MPs In December last year, the former chairperson of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC), Sarah Serem, raised a red flag that while the wage bill stood at Sh627 billion in the 2016/2017 financial year, it was expected rise to Sh650 billion in the 2017/2018 financial year. And in the last 5 years, the country's debt increased from Sh1.8 trillion to almost Sh4.8 trillion. The Ufungamano-Joint Forum of Religious Organizations (U-JFRO) yesterday said it is imperative for the the number of constituencies be reduced from 290 down to 150 and counties from 47 to 16 if at all the government is keen on addressing the spiraling wage bill. Wambugu proposed the splitting of former provinces into two counties each. "The Rift Valley can be split into three and Nairobi retained as one county because of its small size," he said. "Currently, there are 47 counties and 290 constituencies. The counties should be reduced to 16 and the current counties become sub-counties.The counties are too many and some are not viable. The counties should be clustered into viable economic blocks," he said. The proposals by U-JFRO represent roughly a 50 percent cut in the size of government and would go a long way in helping the country manage its public wage bill and contain the current spiraling national debt. The forum, however, rejected Raila Odinga's call for a three-tier structure of governance, saying it will be unsustainable. They said the proposal is unsustainable as it will over-burden the economy. Last month, the former Prime Minister proposed that the country adopts a three-tier government that will see the formation of 14 regional blocs. Read: Aukot wants woman rep post abolished, MPs reduced to 194 His idea is that the country should retain the current Counties but establish 14 regional or provincial blocks as units of disbursement of resources and the National government. The leaders further proposed scrapping of ministries and nominations in the National Assembly. They are of the view that ministries should be reduced to 16 from the current 22. Nominations in the national assembly , senate and country assemblies should also be scrapped on grounds that the system has been abused with only relatives and political cronies. "This changes we have proposed should be made as soon as possible even if it means holding mid-term general elections under the amended constitution. this is possible with the necessary political will and appreciation that Kenyans cannot afford to wait for another 5 years beyond 2022 with the heavy burden facing it." Wambugu said they will be presenting the proposals to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission as the latter already began conducting a review process of wards and constituency boundaries that will end in August 2021. IEBC had in February this year asked Parliament to allocate them Sh8 billion to conduct a second review of the ward and constituency boundaries within four years. To comply with the one third gender rule in the National Assembly, the religious leaders proposed that up to 75 women be nominated for the assembly from among those who have contested but are the best losers. This will give a total of a maximum of 225 members National Assembly. The women nomination will be for the gender balance as enshrined in the constitutions. They also proposed that in 2022 General elections, senators should be elected in the new reduced number of counties and each county should elect one man and one woman. This will reduce the senate to 32 senators down from the current 67 and will provide a good solution for the gender balance. Similarly the leaders want elected MCA's be reduced to 750 down from the current 1450. Currently there are 347 MP's and 67 Senators with a GDP of Sh7 trillion ($70.53 billion) MPs on the other hand earn a basic salary of about Sh740,000 but with allowances, the amount goes to more than Sh1 million per month. Governors earn a monthly basic pay of Sh1.11 million. Read: Reduce legislators and ward reps to cut wage bill – CoB Click here for
the latest political news