Corruption stands in the way of the Big Four agenda and can completely destroy Kenya, President Uhuru Kenyatta said yesterday. He warned that corrupt officers will face the full force of the law. “We must address the real elephant in the room. We must say enough is enough for the country to move forward,” he spoke at the Eighth Presidential Roundtable at State House, Nairobi. Government officials and private sector players attended. Uhuru called for a multisectoral approach to fight corruption. He said the private sector, the courts and MPs all have a role to play. “Time for politicking is behind us. We must clean and move the country forward. We are all to blame,” he said. “I’ve had an opportunity to work with wonderful and dedicated men and women full of integrity. But some are not prepared to change.” Read: President Uhuru warns corrupt public servants Uhuru said it is time for Kenyans to be blunt and honest with one another, especially when things go wrong. He appointed Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musiambu to lead graft eradication efforts and the war on illicit trade, counterfeits, fake business stickers, dumping and import of fake goods. Currently, illicit trade leads to Sh200 billion revenue losses annually, Uhuru said. He said the amount lost can finance some projects under the Big Four agenda. The President said the affordable housing projects will be fast-tracked. He said the government will use the off-balance sheet financing model to remove funding burden on the National Treasury and speed up construction. Under the off-balance sheet financing, the government will not be required to pay initial cash to contractors. It will, however, assess their capacity and demand bank guarantees and performance agreement. Under this arrangement, a guarantor (bank) pays a financier if a contractor breaches the agreement. Uhuru said the government will only be required to meet its financial obligations once the contractual agreements are met and the projects completed. Details: President Uhuru Kenyatta statement on corruption Click here for the latest political news