The diabolical blatant theft of farmers’ money at the National Cereals and Produce Board has exposed the soft underbelly of Rift Valley politics. The electorate is no longer at ease. It is shocked by the betrayal served in small doses to them by those they entrusted with safeguarding their day-to-day interests. North Rift is the breadbasket or it used to be until greed overwhelmed the leaders. Greed blurred the boundaries between protecting the farmer and enriching a few chosen people. The results are all over the place. Millions meant for buying maize from farmers have vamoosed into the pockets of the well-connected, leaving the poor small-holder farmers stranded with nowhere to sell their maize. The farmers have been crying incessantly but their wails have fallen on deaf ears. This is because two groups have emerged with conflicting interests: one is bent on obliterating the truth about the alleged under-hand dealings at the NCPB in which millions were lost. One of these groups wants to frustrate reports that some undeserving cases were paid colossal amounts of money meant for the real maize farmers who break their backs and pockets in their quest to produce maize. It is unfortunate that many MPs prefer to protect individuals suspected to have looted the till while leaving to their own devices the people who woke up in the wee hours of the night to elect them. Farmers can be anything but they are not stupid. They know who is working against them and who is championing their interests. The thieving leaders with their collaborators are busy trying to block the truth but it will surely come out soon. We know why the likes of Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Soi legislator Caleb Kositany are hell-bent on protecting top leaders and their aides who have been fingered for their involvement in pilfering farmers’ money. This cohort should know that farmers are now wiser than they have been and they know who is interested in their welfare and who is not. Sudi, Murkomen, Kositany et al have failed to read the signs of the time following the problems facing farmers. They still wallow in the mistaken belief that the electorate will remain voting machines forever. Well, I’ve got news for them; time is running out for leaders like you. You are either with the people or you can as well prepare to be sent packing in 2022. This will give you a field day and free time to kowtow in your sycophantic ways. No one will blame you because you will only be serving your political masters. The people want openness and honesty not chest-thumping and brinkmanship. The Sudi-Murkomen evil axis should never be allowed to fester as farmers continue to be imperiled by the actions of a few greedy people. Their inaction and choice of words when farmers are genuinely hurting are incredibly unbelievable. These leaders have turned their backs on the people and chosen to stand with suspected looters of the future of farmers. As evidenced by the boldness of the farmers who stood and pointed accusing fingers at these wayward leaders, it is clear that the populace will no longer be used as voting machines. Kenyans witnessed how farmers told off politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto, telling them to shut up or ship out. The chickens have come home to roost. Now, it is crystal clear why outspoken Moiben MP Silas Tiren and his equally charged Nandi Hills counterpart Alfred Keter were kicked out of influential parliamentary committees. Tiren had contested and won the chairmanship of the influential Agriculture and Livestock Committee while Keter was elected the chair for Labour and Social Welfare Committee. Tiren and Keter have become the punching bags for the Lords of Impunity in Rift Valley. The executors of their exit from these committees knew that they are hawk-eyed and would never leave farmers exposed to exploitation by leaders who only care about their bank balances. But is satisfying that this duo has proven that they can still fight for the welfare of the people without occupying the helm of any committee.