Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has only managed a D+, or 44 percent, in the citizens scorecard on service delivery. The county was the last of three cities that were surveyed, the other two being Kisumu (Anyang' Nyong'o) and Mombasa (Hassan Joho). Nyong'o scored a C+ of 56 percent and Joho a C of 53 percent, following the reseach from May 1 to 14. Trends and Insights for Africa (Tifa) released the report in Nairobi on Tuesday, saying 62 percent residents felt Sonko had done well in street lighting. Fifteen percent said he had done well in education and 50 percent in education through youth polytechnics. Tifa Managing Director Maggie Ireri explained that the Governor only scored above average in these three areas. "With these scores, it is evident that Nairobians are not happy with Sonko's service delivery. For example, 61 percent of the respondents said he has failed to maintain feeder roads, some 10 percent think the same roads are too congested while nine percent say he has closed them," Ireri said. Regarding the business environment, Ireri reported that 33 percent complained about high costs of acquiring licences while 35 percent cited harassment by county officiials. Twenty one percent said they were being charged for too many licences. "Nairobians are dissatisfied with market centers because garbage is littered everywhere (43 percent). Thirty six percent feel the Governor has failed to establish planned structures for hawkers while six percent raised concerns over lack of toilets," she said. Related: No forced evictions for Nairobi markets revamp, traders told Twenty seven percent of the participants said the markets were congested while 12 percent pointed out lack of drainage systems. On cleanliness, Tifa's report stated that 87 percent of the respondents were concerned about garbage collection, 36 percent poor drainage and 13 percent about air pollution. Some 65 percent of Nairobians said the Governor had failed to unblock sewer lines, 32 percent saying there was no planning and 29 percent citing lack of maintenance The report further stated that 56 percent of the respondents werre concerned about continuous water rationing, 47 percent about dirty tap water and nine percent about interference by cartels. On devolution, the researcher found that 40 percent believed nothing had changed since its inception in 2013 while 28 percent said the situation had improved and 24 percent that it had worsened. Tifa reported that only five percent of respondents had participated in forums on county development, only one percent in gatherings on budgets and two percent in meetings on formulation of county bills. Nairobians were also concerned about food security as 49 per cent said they had cut the sizes of their meals in the last 12 months. Twenty seven percent said they went whole days without eating while 14 per cent - equivalent to 112,000 homes - said they had gone to bed hungry for seven days during the research. Data was collected from 500 people, the margin of error being +/- five percent. More on county: Will Sonko's Nairobi regeneration team resign for failing Uhuru? Also see: Grim stats: 900,000 slum dwellers starving, many kids malnourished Click here for the latest political news