Palestinians buried
the dead on Tuesday from the bloodiest day in Gaza in years,
after Israeli forces killed 60 Palestinians near the Gaza-Israel
border during demonstrations against the opening of the US
embassy in Jerusalem. Israeli forces shot dead two more Palestinians on Tuesday,
although protests were quieter than the previous day. It
appeared that many protesters had gone to mourning tents rather
than back to the scene of Monday's bloodshed. Mourners marched
through the strip, waving Palestinian flags and calling for
revenge. "With souls and blood we redeem you martyrs," they shouted. Hundreds marched in the funeral of eight-month-old Leila
al-Ghandour, whose body was wrapped in a Palestinian flag. "Let her stay with me, it is too early for her to go," her
mother cried, pressing the baby's body to her chest. The family
said she died of inhaling tear gas. At Gaza's hospitals, families crowded the halls and spilled
out of rooms as patients awaited treatment. Bassem Ibrahim, who
said he was shot in the leg by Israeli troops, said at one stage
he had feared losing the limb because of the delays. "There are not many doctors. They are unable to see
everyone, with all the injuries," said Ibrahim, 23. "The number
was unbelievable and they did not have time." On the Israeli side of the border, Israeli sharpshooters
took up positions to stop any attempted breach of the fence
should demonstrations break out again. Tanks were also deployed. But if the violence tapered off, it still had a forceful
impact internationally, with countries criticising both the
Israeli use of deadly force and the US decision to open its
new embassy at a ceremony attended by President Donald Trump's
daughter Ivanka and son-in-law Jared Kushner. More on this: Gaza violence: Fresh protests expected after deadly clashes Turkey expelled Israel's ambassador, and Israel expelled the
Turkish consul-general in Jerusalem. President Tayyip Erdogan
exchanged heated words on Twitter with Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu. The Palestinians summoned home their representative
in Washington, citing the embassy decision. Netanyahu blamed Hamas for provoking the violence. "They’re
pushing civilians – women, children – into the line of fire with
a view of getting casualties. We try to minimize casualties.
They're trying to incur casualties in order to put pressure on
Israel, which is horrible," Netanyahu told CBS News. The United States echoed that charge, with State Department
spokeswoman Heather Nauert saying the United States regretted
all loss of life but blaming "the misery that is faced by people
in Gaza" on Hamas. She said Hamas used the US embassy move "as
an excuse to rile people up and to encourage violence." "We have seen how Hamas continues to incite violence," she
told a briefing. "The activities that are taking place there ...
would certainly stop if violent protests were to stop." For six weeks, Palestinians have been holding Gaza border
demonstrations demanding access to family land or homes lost to
Israel when it was founded in the 1948 Middle East war. Israel
rejects that demand, fearing it would deprive the state of its
Jewish majority. Palestinian medical officials say 107 Gazans have now been
killed since the start of the protests and nearly 11,000 people
wounded, about 3,500 of them by live fire. Israeli officials
dispute those numbers. No Israeli casualties have been reported. Palestinian leaders have called Monday's events a massacre,
and the Israeli tactic of using live fire against the protesters
has drawn worldwide concern and condemnation. The United Nations Security Council met to discuss the
situation. Israel has said it is acting in self-defence to protect its
borders and communities. Its main ally, the United States, has
backed that stance. Hamas, which rules Gaza and opposes Israel's
existence, denies instigating violence. The Israeli military said at least 24 of those killed on
Monday were "terrorists with documented terror background" and
most of them were active operatives of Hamas. The Islamic Jihad militant group posted portraits of three
uniformed members whom it said were killed when they took part
as non-combatants in the protests, and the Hamas-led interior
ministry posted pictures of 10 of its security men killed in the
protests whom it said were unarmed and monitoring the crowds. May 15 is traditionally the day Palestinians mark the
"Nakba", or Catastrophe, when hundreds of thousands fled or were
driven from their homes in violence culminating in war between
the newly created Jewish state and its Arab neighbours in 1948. More than 2 million people are crammed into the Gaza Strip,
more than two-thirds of them refugees. Citing security concerns,
Israel and Egypt maintain tight curbs on the enclave, deepening
economic hardship and raising humanitarian concerns. A senior Israeli commander said that of the 60 Gazans killed
on Monday, 14 were carrying out attacks and 14 others were
militants. He also said Palestinians protesters were using hundreds of
pipe bombs, grenades and fire-bombs. Militants had opened fire
on Israeli troops and tried to set off explosives by the fence. Many casualties were caused by Palestinians carrying devices
that went off prematurely," he said. In Geneva, the UN human rights office condemned what it
called the "appalling deadly violence" by Israeli forces. UN human rights spokesman Rupert Colville said Israel had
a right to defend its borders according to international law,
but lethal force must only be used a last resort, and was not
justified by Palestinians approaching the Gaza fence. The UN rapporteur on human rights in the Palestinian
territories, Michael Lynk, said Israel's use of force may amount
to a war crime. YOUNG VICTIM Many shops in East Jerusalem were shut throughout the day
following a call by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas for a
general strike across the Palestinian Territories. A 70-second
siren was sounded in the occupied West Bank in commemoration of
the Nakba. Most Gaza protesters stay around tent camps but groups have
ventured closer to the border fence, rolling burning tyres and
throwing stones. Some have flown kites carrying containers of
petrol that spread fires on the Israeli side. On Tuesday the number of protesters gathered at the frontier
was estimated by the Israeli army at 4,000, well down on Monday. Monday's protests were fuelled by the opening ceremony for
the new US Embassy in Jerusalem following its relocation from
Tel Aviv. The move fulfilled a pledge by US President Donald
Trump, who in December recognised the city as Israel's capital. Palestinians envision East Jerusalem as the capital of a
state they hope to establish in the occupied West Bank and the
Gaza Strip. Israel regards all of Jerusalem, including the
eastern sector it captured in the 1967 Middle East war and which
it later annexed, as its "eternal and indivisible capital". Most countries say the status of Jerusalem - a sacred city
to Jews, Muslims and Christians - should be determined in a
final peace settlement and that moving their embassies now would
prejudge any such deal. Netanyahu on Monday praised Trump but Palestinians have said
the United States can no longer serve as an honest broker in any
peace process. Talks aimed at finding a two-state solution to
the conflict have been frozen since 2014. Trump said on Monday he remained committed to peace between
Israel and the Palestinians. His administration says it has
nearly completed a new Israeli-Palestinian peace plan. Netanyahu blamed Hamas for the Gaza violence. Hamas denied
instigating it but the White House backed Netanyahu, saying
Hamas "intentionally and cynically" provoked this response. The United States on Monday blocked a Kuwait-drafted UN
Security Council statement that would have expressed "outrage
and sorrow at the killing of Palestinian civilians" and called
for an independent investigation, UN diplomats said. In the British parliament, junior foreign office minister
Alistair Burt said the United States needed to show more
understanding about the causes of Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Hamas' role in the violence must be investigated, he added. Also read: US Jerusalem embassy move, violence negates peace bid - analysts Click here for the latest political news