Kenya’s fresh produce exporters could be affected by the European Union's ban on three chemicals blamed for the widespread decline of bees. Although the ban is only within the EU, local exporters fear they might face resistance by their customers in Europe because the chemicals are widely used in Kenya. The ban relates to the outdoor use of three chemicals - clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam - which are derived from nicotine that has insecticidal properties. The ban will come into force end year and does not affect the chemicals use inside permanent greenhouses. Gigiri-based UN Environment said the ban will be beneficial to the declining bees populations in Kenya and across the world. “Policy makers in other jurisdictions will doubtless be paying close attention,” Unep said last week after the European Court of Justice rejected requests by chemicals giants Bayer and Syngenta to overturn the ban. “Scientific studies have found that the chemicals can disorientate bees, harming their ability to pollinate and return to hives,” Unep said. The nicotine-derived chemicals were introduced in the late 1980s as a safer alternative to older insecticides that are more toxic. Yet a growing body of research has linked them to dying bees population. “Without them (bees), we could lose a variety of food such as potatoes, pepper, coffee, pumpkins, carrots, apples, almonds, tomatoes, just to name a few,” Carla Mucavi, director of the Food and Agriculture Organisation liaison Office in New York said in a statement. Some local exporters said the EU might lower the maximum residue level, the highest level of a pesticide residue to be legally tolerated on food. When the ban was first mooted in 2013, horticulture firm Finlays said they would actively engage with their customers to fully understand their position. “Outside of the EU the use of these compounds will still be legal however our ability to use them will depend on our customers’ reaction and our own position,” the company said in a statement. Kenya exported Sh115 billion worth of horticultural produce in 2017, according to the Horticulture Department. Kenya Flower Council CEO Jane Ngige said 40 per cent of Kenyan horticultural exports go to the European Union. Some of it go to USA but after being repackaged. Currently, we export our produce via Netherlands and South Africa. This makes it difficult to know how much of our produce go to USA because they loose the identity in this two countries before they go to the market," Ngige said last week while commenting on the expected Kenya-US direct flights.