Mike hands me a coffee cup to flicker the ash in because he can’t be bothered to go get an ashtray. I try and imitate all the Hollywood stars I’ve seen in the movies as I flick the ash into the cup. How posh they all look. It’s funny how smoking makes you feel very sophisticated, yet there’s absolutely nothing sophisticated about it. It’s downright dirty. “Do you know a guy got life the other day for trafficking 155 joints?” I ask Mike as I take another drag of his cigarette. “The stash was only worth 20 grand or so,” I continue. Mike displays no emotion as he takes the cigarette from me and places it on his lips to draw a breath in. “He pled guilty, who does that?” I ask. “Always say you’re innocent. If the magistrate screws you over, at least you’ll get an appeal.” Mike still doesn’t offer an opinion and seems more concerned with the butt of his cigarette than what I’m saying. “I’m just sick and tired of how the rich get away with everything in this country!” I continue. “And the poor people get royally screwed time and time again.” “And that’s not their fault?” he asks, looking slightly amused. Oh, he’s finally offering an opinion. “Rich people get away with things because they know how to work the system.” His phone rings before I can interject. “I have to go,” he says. “A friend of mine is stranded and I have his spare keys.” That’s a lie if I ever heard one. “Fine. I have to go too,” I say, glancing at my watch. The movie has just started and will be over in a couple of hours. “I’d like you to stay,” he says. “I’ll only be 15 minutes. Please, wait for me.” I reluctantly agree. I have nothing to wear except my overcoat so I slip on his vest. “I like that,” he says approvingly. “You know I love you, right?” he asks. I nod. He kisses me on the forehead and leaves. I turn on the TV and watch nothing memorable for the next one and half hours. He’s still not back. Screw this. I’m going to leave. I turn off the TV and close the door behind me. It’s not locked. I hope no one comes in to rob him. I get to the theatre in time and take my niece home. A whole three hours after he left me home, he calls. “Where are you?” he asks. “I left. You took a lot longer than 15 minutes,” I say. “I’m still here waiting for him.” This guy needs to get his lies straight. He told me he was taking someone his spare keys; how can he be waiting on him? This was the first time my gut told me something was off with this guy. I should have paid attention but it’s difficult to read the signs when you’re getting seriously good D. “I didn’t lock up. Is that ok?” I ask. “No one will go in there,” he responds. I can hear voices in the background. He’s obviously with some people. They sound male. I wonder why he finds it necessary to lie about the reason he left. Bros over hos — I get it. Do your thing. You don’t need to lie to me about it. “Ok, enjoy yourself,” I say. “Babe. You know I love you, right?” he asks, just as he did earlier. “Yes,” I say and hang up.