A British pensioner has been convicted of nine counts of child abuse in Kilifi. Retired locksmith Keith Morris, 72, was tried in a British court following an investigation by United Kingdom's National Crime Agency (NCA) and Kenyan authorities. “NCA worked in partnership with the Kenya's National Police Service to investigate 72-year-old Keith Morris, after another British national staying in Kenya reported his inappropriate behaviour with children,”  a statement by the British High Commission in Nairobi said. He will be sentenced at Leeds Crown Court on July 17 this year. “He befriended vulnerable families in Kenya, and then abused their children. He has been convicted of nine child abuse offences in the UK, demonstrating  there is no escaping justice,” the statement added. Read: Kilifi leading in child abuse, teachers common culprits - report More: Kilifi boda boda riders warned against illicit sex with minors Investigators revealed  Morris had been visiting a rural village in Kilifi county, where, under the pretext of supporting local families with household goods, clothing and education, he preyed on vulnerable children. During a three-week trial in the UK, young victims gave evidence through a live video link from Mombasa. One of the victims told the court Morris, who was known to her as Mozzy, had done “bad things” to her when they stayed at a hotel. The victim said he then told her she would be in trouble if she informed anyone about it. The jury was told how Morris tried to interfere with the case by threatening witnesses to not give evidence, and attempting to influence his Kenyan associates. Graham Ellis, NCA operations manager, said, “Morris spent many years integrating himself into the local community in Kenya, making him a trusted figure to people who lived there. He then abused this trust in the worst possible way.” “Not only did he abuse and defile vulnerable children but he also attempted to manipulate and bribe them into helping him prove his innocence.” Ellis said the Kenya’s Child Protection Unit played a significant role in bringing to justice the British sex offender.“Travelling sex offenders like Morris think that by conducting their abuse elsewhere in the world, they won’t get caught. However, borders are not a barrier,”  he said. More: Alarm as Kilifi county records over 1,400 defilement cases in 3 years Click here for the latest political news