Kenyans have been cynical whenever corruption is mentioned in conversation, and with good reason. “It’s ingrained in our culture” or “No one gets punished here” are phrases we hear every day. I have always quietly advocated that there are rays of light in the gloom and a great deal of effort and energy is expended in investigating complex cases and recovering looted assets. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, often criticised and perceived as having a lackadaisical approach to fulfilling its mandate, has over the past five years been quietly investing in human and technical resources to give its people the expertise and tools to investigate often complex matters and to do so in an increasingly fast-moving and politicised environment. They have always been firm in their stance that those efforts would bear fruit, and there are indications now that they are becoming vindicated. “No wakubwa (powerful people) will ever go to prison for corruption in Kenya.” I hear this very frequently, with knowing chuckles from those party to the conversation. The Kenyan legal system, inherited from the British, is a multipronged one in which the independence of the investigative entity is clearly demarked from that of the prosecution, and both combine to present the case before the adjudication of the courts. This system was devised to provide safeguards against the state, but in recent years it has more often than not allowed the involved institutions to shift blame to one another. Times may be changing. With a new Chief Justice, Attorney General and Director of Public Prosecutions, there have been results which have made even the world-weary cynical media of Kenya sit up and take notice. The wakubwa are going to prison: This week former Permanent Secretary for local government Sammy Kirui was sentenced to three years imprisonment which is where he currently languishes, along with John Gakuo, former Nairobi Town Clerk and [once] strong candidate to be Governor Sonko’s number two. Between these two men and their two fellow accused, their fines total 86 million shillings. This isn’t a one-off either. Last week Wycliffe Mitema, a former Mukueni district accountant, was convicted of stealing approximately 3.8 million shillings. To the surprise of the media, and probably to his surprise as well, Mitema was sentenced to pay 17.7 million shillings or spend four years in jail. Critics will comment that this is a flash in the pan, an attempt by the authorities to show will and determination, but the statistics say otherwise. Since 2013, convictions for corruption have increased between 50 and 100 per cent per year. In 2017 the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission recovered more assets than at any time in its history and these upward trends are likely to continue if this trajectory continues. Part of this is due to the emphasis on the philosophy of following the money. A focussed and concentrated effort in this area by the EACC, supported by international partners, has allowed cases to come before court that demonstrate what really happened and how the house in Runda was bought with the proceeds of crime and the brand new Land Cruiser was the direct benefit of taking a cut from a contract. There is still a long road to travel, we can all appreciate that. But let’s acknowledge and applaud positive work when we see it and give our agencies the support they need. For Kenya to fulfil its ambition of being an investor-friendly environment it needs a level playing field where corruption is not a way of life and where bribes are not the primary requirement to get a contract. What can each of us do to help? We must report corruption where we see it, and we must be willing to stand in court and say what we have seen, because to do otherwise is a betrayal of ourselves and of Kenya. Senior Investigations Expert in Kenya for International Centre for Asset Recovery (ICAR)