There was a rare show of unity in Parliament yesterday as President Uhuru Kenyatta delivered his State of the Nation Address. Unlike last year when Opposition MPs skipped the address citing Uhuru’s failure to deliver on promises, lawmakers from across the political divide yesterday praised the speech. Nasa and Jubilee MPs from Senate and the National Assembly calmly hearkened to Uhuru’s speech which kicked off at 3:16 PM. Last year, Uhuru delivered his address in Parliament despite boycott of Nasa lawmakers who claimed that he had failed to deliver on his promises. In 2016, Opposition MPs led by Ugunja's Opiyo Wandayi shouted down the President by blowing whistles and causing interruptions. The chaos led to Wandayi's expulsion from the House. Yesterday was different. “The entire speech was good. The President has reaffirmed the spirit of the handshake,” Wandayi said. The Opposition led by Raila Odinga snubbed the official opening of the 12th Parliament by Uhuru late last year. Chief Justice David Maraga did not attend the event. Read:[State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Maraga was however present during yesterday's address. Diplomats were led by outgoing US Ambassador Robert Godec. A contingent of Kenya Police and Kenya Defence Forces manned all routes leading to Parliament. It was pomp and colour as Uhuru arrived for the address at 2:40pm. He inspected a guard of honour mounted by the Kenya Air Force. He was welcomed to the Chamber by Speakers Justin Muturi (National Assembly) and Ken Lusaka (Senate) and top leadership of the two Houses. However, Nasa co-principal and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula was not present. Uhuru challenged the legislators to embrace unity by shaking hands. “We live together whatever corner of the country we call home. Never again should we lose lives and properties of our people to the account of politics. Let us all shake hands,” Uhuru said. In a rare occasion, Embakasi East MP Babu Owino caused laughter in the House when he rose and went to shake Uhuru’s hand. National Assembly Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali said: “The general mood of the House was indeed for unit. MPs from both political divide interacted freely”. “This is a clear demonstration of patriotism between the President and Raila,” said nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi. Read:Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino Also Read:Forgive me too, Ruto tells Kenyans after Uhuru's State of the Nation speech Click here for the latest political news     