After leading Homeboyz to the Enterprise Cup title over the weekend, coach Pau Murunga has now set his sights on winning the Kenya Cup trophy next season. The deejays beat Impala 21-3 to win their maiden 15s trophy over the weekend and this left Murunga confident that they are heading in the right direction. “I am delighted with this win. The boys played their hearts out and finally, we have a major silverware to show after all this years of trying in the longer version of the game,” said Murunga. “We have played in two consecutive semifinals in the Kenya Cup and we want to go all the way and win the league come next season.” Murunga said his side showed patience after a cagey first half where Homeboyz led 6-3, courtesy of two penalties by rookie Jonathan Olindi. “We settled well in the second half and we started dominating the game and got the tries which were well deserved. The forwards did a good job of laying the foundation for a great afternoon,” added Murunga. Polycarp Odhiambo and substitute William Diffu scored a try each for the deejays in the second half with Mark Kwemoi scoring the lone penalty for Impala. Impala coach Frank Ndong lamented missed opportunities. “We had chances which we did not execute especially in attack and also had turnovers which Homeboyz exploited. It’s disappointing to lose after coming all this way,” said Ndong. Elsewhere, Mean Machine beat Menengai Oilers 10-5 in extra time to win the KRU Championship trophy and promotion to the Kenya Cup in style at the Nakuru Showground. Samuel Meja gave Machine the lead with an unconverted try as the sides went into the breather with Machine leading 5-0. In the second half, Haron Anduvate pulled Oilers level with an unconverted try. With no team securing the win in regular time, the game went into extra time where Charles Kinyanjui scored a try on the stroke of full time to give Machine the win. In KRU Nationwide League, Masinde Murilo University beat Technical University of Mombasa 30-10 to qualify for the semis as Kitale RFC edged Kiambu 17-10. In another quarterfinal match, Swara narrowly edged Maseno University 14-13 while former Kenya Cup side, Eldoret RFC had a hard-fought 18-17 win over Surburbs. Eldoret will now face Masinde Murilo University while Kitale will square it out with Swara in next week’s semis where the winners of both matches will be promoted to the KRU Championship.