A fresh showdown looms between the state and fiery lawyer Miguna Miguna as he is set to return to Kenya on Wednesday next week. He is yet to be issued with a new Kenyan passport. Miguna’s woes began after he administered the controversial presidential oath to NASA leader Raila Odinga on January 30. The lawyer has twice been forcibly deported to Canada. On Monday, he said he is ready to come back. “I’m a Kenyan-born citizen. I have a right to enter and leave Kenya as I wish like everyone else. The court has affirmed my rights and I will not waive any,” he said. Read: No drama; KNCHR writes to Kihalangwa, wants facilitation of Miguna's smooth return However, signs of a fresh crisis emerged in a May 5 letter by the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, which requested the Immigration department to produce a valid passport for the self-styled NRM-Ke leader. KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori told Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa to facilitate prompt issuance of the document as ordered by the High Court. Kihalangwa, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and police boss Joseph Boinnet have been indicted for contempt in the Miguna saga. In the letter, Mbogori wants the government to purchase a flight ticket for Miguna so he can travel from Toronto to Nairobi. “Miguna has informed the commission he will return to Kenya on May 16. To enable the commission to comply with the court directive, it urges your office to comply by issuing Miguna Miguna with a valid Kenyan passport,” she said. The commission also wants to be allowed access to the immigration and customs clearance area at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to observe and monitor Miguna’s reentry as demanded by court. Read: I'll be back on May 16, Miguna says In the letter, the Immigration department had until today to respond. However, it was not clear whether Kihalangwa and his officers had complied. During Miguna’s last encounter with the Kenyan authorities on March 29, he said he was drugged and bundled onto a plane unconscious. Miguna had declined to enter Kenya using a tourist visa. The last deportation threatened the peace pact between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila. The ODM leader’s supporters questioned why the deal could not secure Miguna’s unconditional return from Canada. More: Miguna’s days in police cells were full of drama and insults, say cops Click here for the latest political news 