A Malindi court has ordered the state to compensate 4,700 Lamu fishermen Sh1.76 billion for violating their rights during construction of the Lapsset corridor. The state was also ordered to pay petitioners the basic costs of expderts and witnesses. The case was filed in 2012. The judgment was issued on Monday by justices Joel Ngugi, John Mativo, Beatrice Jaden and Pauline Nyamweya. The four-judge bench directed the government to file a report on the progress of payment within a year. Lamu fishermen, led by Mohamed Ali Baadi, said they were not consulted and compensated like landowners. This despite the project’s damage to the environment and their cultural and traditional fishing rights. The judges said the fishermen had fishing rights in the routes and zones immediately next to the waters of Lamu Island within Kenya and its exclusive economic zones. “The project proponent must pay out the full and prompt compensation to local fishermen as assessed and accepted by the project proponent and as earlier identified in this judgment,” the court ordered. Fishermen also are to have fishing gear and modern landing site. The court also ordered the government within six months to make payments identified in the document ‘Fisheries resource validation and compensation: A report for consideration by Lamu Port and Coal Plant Power Generation Company in Lamu’. “Failure or delay to compensate them is unfair, discriminatory and gross violation of their rights to their traditional fishing right and their right to earn a living,” the judges said. The Lamu Port-South Sudan-Ethiopia-Transport corridor project is estimated to cost at least Sh2.6 trillion. The court directed the state to draft a programme to consult petitioners and other residents on the project’s impact on their culture. The government is required to address how to mitigate negative effects of the project. It must draw up a plan to preserve Lamu Island as a World Unesco World Heritage site within six months. Environmental experts testified that dredging destroyed mangrove forests, seagrass and coral reefs which are fish and turtle nesting areas. Mangroves also protect shores from erosion and storm damage and fight pollution. Project proponents failed to carry out a strategic environmental assessment. Click here for the latest political news   