The government has suspended imports of gambling machines and cracked down on gaming and vice dens. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday ordered the Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Bureau of Standards not to allow gaming machines into the country. “The government has banned importation of Chinese gaming machines with immediate effect,” the CS said. He directed regional and county security teams to seize unlicensed gambling machines, popularly known as lotto machines. Matiang’i made the announcement in Nakuru after leading police in the destruction of thousands of gaming machines. Gambling, he said, has contributed to student dropouts, immorality and crime. Head teachers and parents have been complaining about increased number of gaming machines. “Some students drop out of school due to gambling addiction. It has destroyed families and security teams must take personal responsibility in eradicating this vices,” the CS said. Matiang’i said foreigners without work permits have been flocking the country to trade in the machines. “If the foreigners want to destroy children, let them try [destroying] theirs, because we cannot condone this in our country,” he said. On Monday, seven betting machines were impounded as police launched a crackdown in Keiyo North. AP officers said the Chinese betting machines were found in Kiptungo village. Keiyo North AP commander Joseph Biwott said return of the machines has increased insecurity. Biwott said residents complain that betting machines lure schoolchildren away from studies. Unscrupulous businesspeople operate the machines without licences, he said. Biwott said the machines have led to students stealing coins for betting. AP officers are pursuing owners and operators. Residents said betting machines have attracted women who now use money from the family budget to feed their habit. In January, Nyamira county commissioner Isaiah Nakoru ordered a crackdown and closure of all Chinese gaming spots. He said the machines were unlicensed and the venues were providing a safe haven for criminals. Police officers raided several gambling spots in the county, seizing at least 10 machines. The owners were arrested. “We have had instances where students drop out of school due to addiction to the betting menace,” Nakoru said. “We have also noticed with concern that the gambling machines are operated by foreigners who are in the country illegally.” The administrator said many youths have been addicted to gambling, hence, they cannot concentrate on nation-building. In December last year, police raided two gambling dens in Thika and arrested operators. They confiscated 10 machines owned by people from other counties. Minors were found at some of the dens. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina said gambling had fuelled theft and drug abuse.