Eight senior managers of the National Cereals and Produce Board were suspended yesterday. Crops Development PS Richard Lesiyampe suspended three regional managers from Lake Western, North Rift and South Rift regions to pave the way for investigations. Eldoret, Moi’s Bridge, Bungoma, Kisumu and Nakuru silo managers were also asked to step aside. “All positions being held in acting capacity will be advertised from next week,” he said. Lesiyampe said an audit would be done and those found culpable will be prosecuted if they are implicated in the investigations. Read: CEO Newton Terer resigns from NCPB amid probe on illegal maize imports The PS spoke at the NCPB headquarters. He said the state last week released Sh1 billion to pay 3,200 farmers who are owed less than Sh800,000. The Ministry of Agriculture commissioned an audit to ascertain the procedures used to buy maize and manage subsidised fertiliser. Lesiyampe said audit findings revealed laxity and negligence in the top management of the board. “All 59 staff working in the five critical silos where malpractices were reported will be investigated. Those found culpable will be dealt by human resource. There will be a review of HR manuals to ensure no employees will work in one station for more than three years,” the PS said. Lesiyampe said some officers have worked in one station for more than 10 years, resulting in complacency and inefficiency. The suspensions come a day after the managing director Newton Terer resigned from his position. Lesiyampe appointed Albin Sang, a senior deputy director of livestock production, as the acting managing director. The appointment takes effect immediately. More: Farmers protest ill treatment, no pay after NCPB stops maize intake The PS says they will review the NCPB Act Cap 338 of 1985 to separate social and commercial functions. The NCPB will be renamed Grain Corporation of Kenya. The functions of the board as in the Act are obsolete, he said. The subsector was liberalised and some regulatory powers are exercised by the other government agencies, he said. Since October last year, the government has bought maize Sh11.4 billion maize from farmers. Out of this, Sh7.8 billion has been cleared. Lesiyampe said the state would pay 700 farmers owed Sh800,000 and more after vetting to weed out middlemen. “We have a debt of Sh2.6 billion owed to the smallscale farmers. The audit shows the board may have paid Sh2 billion to middlemen and merchants at the expense of farmers,” the PS said. “The government will also be releasing Sh1 billion to pay millers who bought maize from farmers and the remaining Sh2.8 billion for millers will be paid by June.” Yesterday, farmers in the Rift Valley called for an overhaul of the NCPB. Kipkorir Menjo said Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri should carry out an in-depth probe. Also read: Disband NCPB for food security More: NCPB vets farmers to weed out 'shady' traders Click here for the latest political news