Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi on Thursday asked DCI boss George Kinoti to publish the names of politicians behind the Sh1.9 billion maize scandal at the NCPB. This came amid revelations that at least five MPs , senior government officials, and
businessmen are among 30 people being investigated over the scandal. The National Cereals and
Produce Board is on spot for paying prominent politicians a chunk of the cash for maize delivered to the national strategic reserve. Sudi told journalists in Mombasa that those implicated in the scandal should not be let to go scot free, especially with the hue and cry among maize farmers over non-payment. Press reports showed that the maize NCPB paid for are believed to be cheap imports from Uganda. Sudi said asked the DCI to hasten its investigations and ensure that the said leaders and their cronies are brought to book. "If there is any politician or any other individual who is behind this maize scandal, they could be those who pushed the manager of NCPB Eldoret to pay certain individuals." "For a long time, Rift Valley MPs have been bearing the brunt of being accused of not helping the over 4,000 maize farmers in the region to secure payment at the NCPB," he said. "However, we are not surprised that even after pushing the government to make sure farmers are paid in time, some certain individuals are said to be walking home with millions." Sudi said they want to know why some farmers get paid immediately, while others who had supplied more than five or four months ago, have not been paid. "As Uasin Gichu and by extension Rift Valley leaders, we have had challenges of how to solve the problems facing the farmers. We have now come to realise that some farmers are getting more pay than others." He said the Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri and the DCI director Kinoti must give out the names of the said farmers who are pocketing more millions at the expense of other farmers. "The DCI must look at the individuals who were paid without supplying any maize; those who are paid more than others, and if the said maize was from Kenya or outside the country," he said. "We do not want to hear stories. Let’s have the names published immediately," the legislator said. Also read: I'll expose names behind importation of maize from Mexico - Raila Click here for the latest political news 