Counties that border
Nairobi continue to take in more residents who work or do business in the
capital, but far too many workers in the city lack decent housing. This is
why the counties that border Nairobi such as
Kiambu, Kajiado and Machakos must step up
efforts to attract more residents from the overstretched capital. Kiambu and Kajiado have attracted a growing number of new homeowners since the devolved
governance structure consolidated the independence of counties. Going by burgeoning
real estate developments in the affluent suburbs of Kiambu such as Migaa,
Limuru’s Red Hill and the areas bordering Runda in the
capital, the county has positioned itself as an attractive suburb for many of
Nairobi’s well-to-do. These find themselves
unable to get large acreage properties due to supply shortfalls near the CBD. The rush for
property in Nairobi’s peri-urban regions has driven up land prices in Kiambu this year. Housing and property management firm HassConsult indicates that prices in this
county have risen by up to 14.72 per cent since 2013. For instance, a quarter
acre in Kiwanja, Ruiru, along the Northern Bypass, was retailing for Sh3.5 million in 2010, but is now Sh15 million—a 430 per cent
jump. The story is no different for land along the Eastern and Northern bypasses going
by Kenya National Bureau of Statistics estimates. This was largely expected
with the rise in population in Kiambu burgeoning to 2,032,282 residents last
year from the 1,623,282 residents recorded in the 1999 census. Although a huge
number of migrants are looking for modest homes, a discerning minority are attracted to the
large tracts of picturesque landscapes that were converted from coffee farms. The Kiambu government is
cognisant of the opportunities that the new influx of residents present and recently
launched the Electronic Development
Applications Management System — an online system where
residents can apply for construction permits. Using this system, approvals and
the award of permits for residential units will take just five days, while
those who want commercial permits will get them within 30 days. Kajiado has also cashed in on
the shortage of residential space in Nairobi, offering sanctuary to thousands
of middle class homeowners since 2010. This is when the devolved system of governance
began to be more widely felt after the promulgation of the Constitution. The KNBS estimates that Kajiado is now
home to some one million residents, up from 687,321 in 2009. This 45 per cent jump
in population has placed demands in infrastructure around the county’s
expansive fields, which were previously ranch land or small-scale farms. To cope with increased demand
for land, the growing number of satellite towns around the capital must embrace
innovation and technology to lower construction costs if the government is to
meet its target of having 200,000 housing units built each year. One of the government's Big Four agenda is providing affordable housing to Kenyans. To make this
a reality, professionals such as architects, structural
engineers, electrical engineers and contractors must be encouraged to adapt low-cost
building solutions. There
is need to move from customised housing to standardised mass production where
standardised inputs are used, making building homes fast and cheaper.