The government is concerned that charcoal production is leading to the destruction of Kenya’s environment. Charcoal is made when wood is burned in a low oxygen environment and burns off compounds like water, a process that can take days. Some tree species, like Acacias, are preferred as their charcoal burns longer. But once these preferred tree species are all used up, producers will fell any tree. When trees are cut down, and the land is left bare, rain water runs off the surface, eroding fertile topsoil. Groundwater supplies are also affected because tree or vegetation cover ensures water seeps into underground wells. There are some big misconceptions about the charcoal sector. The production and use of charcoal is not a bad thing in itself. Trees are a form of renewable energy. Secondly, charcoal receives most of the blame for the loss of trees, but other factors like the clearing of land for agriculture or pasture are also to blame. Kenya has imposed a charcoal ban before. The bans are largely based on the assumption that charcoal is acquired from government land. But most charcoal in Kenya is sourced from privately owned and managed land. This makes the bans ineffectual. The latest measures include a ban on production and restrictions on transportation and trading. These are unlikely to resolve the problem and may create new ones. It’s important to get the approach to charcoal right because so many producers and users rely on it. Wood energy has been used for millenia. Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 62 per cent of global charcoal production. In Kenya, the charcoal sector is worth about USD$427 million each year almost the same size as the country’s tea sector. And about 80 per cent of urban households depend on it for cooking. Most people who produce charcoal live in drylands and do it as a source of income. Drylands make up over 80 per cent of the land in Kenya. In some of these areas, about 50 per cent of the households depend on charcoal as their main source of income. Despite the high dependency on charcoal, existing regulations for a sustainable charcoal sector production are not being applied in a sustainable manner. Most producers don’t have tree replanting schemes. They also use wet wood in earth mould kilns to convert wood to charcoal. This produces a low conversion of wood to charcoal, meaning wood is wasted, land is degraded and air polluted.  POOR HURT MOST The charcoal ban mostly affects the users, who are middle and low-income households, mostly in urban centres. Charcoal prices have gone up by 27 per cent in the past month. It now averages Sh107 for less than 2kg of charcoal. One person uses about 1.9kg of charcoal a day. When earning less than Sh200 a day, this means sacrifices have to be made. If people can’t afford charcoal, they turn to unsafe cooking methods, like burning plastic. This can have a huge negative impact on health. Far too many people rely on the charcoal industry to rule it out, so it must be made sustainable. A number of reputable organisations in Kenya, such as the World Agroforestry Centre, FAO and Kenya Forestry Research Institute, have demonstrated how charcoal can be produced efficiently. The first stage is sustainable wood production, including tree plantations and community managed woodlands. There is also tree inter-cropping, where farmers grow trees alongside crops or in a separate woodlot. A rotation system can be used, where trees are cut in a specific order or mature branches harvested, ensuring constant standing biomass. Farmers could also harvest some trees then let the area naturally regenerate, protecting young shoots from being eaten by livestock. If dryland communities sustainably managed woodlands, charcoal that currently threatens these ecosystems would turn into a livelihood strategy. Unfortunately, these options have not been widely adopted, partly because of low government budgets for charcoal and firewood programmes. The next stage is to use efficient kilns to convert wood to charcoal. In most places, people use kilns that convert just 15 per cent of the original wood weight into charcoal. Yet there’s a lot of research and development in kiln technologies, with some achieving over 30 per cent conversion efficiency. And then there are markets. Central areas for collection and transport of larger quantities would reduce costs and emissions. This should be put into place by county governments. Finally, it’s important to address the end-use of charcoal. Households often use more charcoal than necessary, due to stoves that have low energy conversion efficiency sometimes less than 15 per cent. They need to use improved stoves, with over 35 per cent energy conversion, to reduce household charcoal demand. Commercial enterprises that use charcoal should also follow suit. The reasons these technologies haven’t been implemented is that Kenya, like other African countries, needs a perception shift. Government, researchers and the public need to understand that charcoal can be made sustainable. A pro-firewood and charcoal shift will see the development of technologies for sustainable wood-based energy in the country. Once we have that, the budgets will come through and it’ll be properly rolled out. Mary Njenga is a research scientist at the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF)