Is the collection of a million signatures in support of Nairobi governor Mike Sonko driven by his followers or just another blackmail stunt to shield himself? Nairobians woke up to several posters around the city yesterday claiming that Sonko’s recent woes are because “irrelevant bureaucrats led by irrelevant people have ganged up with City Hall cartels to besmirch governor Sonko”. The posters claimed that a group called Uzalendo will collect the signatures and submit them to City Hall every Monday in peaceful processions. A mole whispers to Corridors that the crusade is designed to show Sonko’s popularity. Well, well, well. ***** A police officer attached to a second term MP has fallen out with his boss after refusing to accompany the legislator to a neighboring country to seek services of a witchdoctor. The officer – a staunch Christian- reportedly told off his boss over the expedition that he maintained was in sharp conflict with his faith. The officer also whispered to Corridors how the MP now has resorted to assigning him domestic chores at his home both in the city and in the village in apparent retaliation. The officer's day is said to start from dropping the kids to school, running market errands for the MP's wife to work on the MP's village farm. The officer in his early 30s is said to be fully fed up with his boss and is now pushing to be reassigned because he cannot continue with his boss a day longer. ***** Did Homa Bay senator Moses Kajwang' take his beef with a section of Homabay MCAs too far when he prescribed English classes for the ward representatives? Some MCAs speaking in low tones on the sidelines of the Legislative Summit which ended yesterday claimed that the Senator was targeting five MCAs from his county who interestingly cannot communicate in English or write their names unassisted. The MCAs were heard plotting how they will 'discipline' the second term senator for maliciously stretching 'domestic' issues to a national forum exposing them to ridicule and embarrassment from their colleagues from other counties. ***** Some people are unhappy with an MP from Nyanza who is taking credit for a major road cutting through his constituency. The government is said to have varied by 15 per cent the contract for the expansion of the Kisii-Migori highway to finance the road in his turf. However, senior government officials are unhappy with the MP’s remarks at a public gathering recently to the effect that he personally lobbied international partners to finance the crucial road. They argue that the opposition MP doesnt appreciate the government’s ‘good gesture’ to woo the constituents. Click here for
the latest political news