Kiambu residents on Friday called for the resignation  of Chief Justice David Maraga following the acquittal of Pastor James Ng’ang’a of Neno Evangelism Centre. The placard waving residents marched to the Supreme Court where they filed a petition. There was a public outcry over the acquittal. Interior CS Fred Matgiang’i ordered a fresh investigation. The family plans to appeal. On Friday the petitioners said public confidence in the Judiciary had been eroded by such cases and asked CJ Maraga to take responsibility for “the outright corruption and intentional incompetence” manifested by his officers. The flamboyant televangelist was acquitted on Monday of death caused by reckless driving. The pastor was said to be at the wheel of his vehicle that struck Mercy Njeri in July 2015. While acquitting him, Limuru  chief magistrate Godfrey Oduor the prosecution failed to produce sufficient evidence to sustain a charge against Ng’ang’a,  his co-accused driver Simon Kuria and police officers Christopher Nzioka and Patrick Mbaya. The magistrate said witnesses failed to place Ng’ang’a at the scene of the crash and  thus it could not be proved that he was driving the Range Rover when the collision happened. The pastor had been accused of driving dangerously leading to the death of Njeri on the Limuru-Naivasha highway. He had denied the charges. Police officers were charged with attempting to defeat justice by protecting the pastor. His acquittal has led to a public outcry. Questions have been asked about the integrity of the police investigation and the manner in which the prosecution handled the matter. The residents asked why the pastor was let off the hook, yet witnesses placed him at the scene. “We wish to reiterate that we the taxpayers cannot continue to pay judges to commit injustices against Kenyans and peg a price for justice,” the residents said on Friday in their petition. They said Kenyans have recently observed several incidents relating to outright corruption in the judiciary, but nothing ha\ happened do far. “The corruption and intentional incompetence in the judiciary are all concerted to defeat justice, leaving families of victims in unbearable pain and anguish,” they wrote in the statement to the court. Early in the week, Interior CS Matiang’i ordered a new investigation. He said the Interior ministry was surprised that the pastor was acquitted “yet a brazen crime was committed by the accused person”. He tasked the DCI with conducting comprehensive investigations with a view to guiding the Judicial Service Commission on what to do with those involved in the decision.