The Africa Road Builders 2018 named President Kenyatta winner of Trophée Babacar Ndiaye for his personal leadership in the transformation of the road network in Kenya. Annual nomination meeting of the Selection Committee of The Africa Road Builders – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE was held on May 2, 2018, in Dakar, Senegal. It worked on the basis of the report made by media for Infrastructure and Finance in Africa (MIFA). The Selection Committee also took into account the public reports of international institutions and organizations in the field of road and transport in Africa, as well as all relevant publications available and searchable in the relevant fields. Read:Ports and railways given 48 hours to make sure SGR handles freight The Committee also noted with great satisfaction the development of the railways and the simplification of air transport. Finally, the Selection Committee welcomes the particular efforts made by Kenya in public lighting. The debates were open and frank. The decisions were submitted to three main criteria which are: the social impact of the projects, their environmental aspect and the quality of the financial arrangement,” the statement read. “Thus is designated The Africa Road Builders Super Prize Great Builder – Trophée Babacar NDIAYE 2018, HE. Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya, for his personal leadership and for the transformation of the road network,”it stated. Through a statement, the Selection Committee congratulated the laureate Uhuru and hope to make the presentation of his trophy on 23 May 2018 in Busan, the Republic of Korea on the occasion of the AfDB Annual Meetings, at a solemn ceremony sponsored by the President of the AfDB, Dr Akinwumi ADESINA. Read:State of the Nation: I will give Kenyans decent homes, Uhuru promises The meeting was attended by representatives of several media from different sub-regions of Africa. Read:Don't force us to use SGR, cargo handlers tell government  Click here for the latest political news