Israel launched celebrations
on Sunday for the US Embassy's relocation to Jerusalem, a move
whose break with world consensus was underscored by the absence
of most envoys to the country from a reception hosted by Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Monday's slated opening of the new embassy follows US
President Donald Trump's recognition in December of Jerusalem as
Israel's capital, a decision he said fulfilled decades of policy
pledges in Washington and formalised realities on the ground. The Palestinians, who want their own future state with its
capital in east Jerusalem, have been outraged by Trump's shift
from previous administrations' preference for keeping the US
Embassy in Tel Aviv pending progress in peace efforts. Those talks have been frozen since 2014. Other major powers
worry that the US move could inflame Palestinian unrest in the
occupied West Bank and on the Gaza Strip border, where Israel
reinforced troops in anticipation of the embassy opening. Most countries say Jerusalem's status should be determined
in a final peace settlement, and say moving their embassies now
would prejudge any such deal. Addressing dignitaries at the Foreign Ministry, including
US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and the president's
daughter and son-in-law, Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner, the
Israeli prime minister urged others to follow Washington's lead. "Move your embassies to Jerusalem because it's the right
thing to do," Netanyahu said. "Move your embassies to Jerusalem
because it advances peace, and that's because you can't base
peace on a foundation of lies." Netanyahu said that "under any peace agreement you could
possibly imagine, Jerusalem will remain Israel's capital". Jerusalem, which is sacred to Jews, Muslims and Christians,
was decorated with roadside flowerbeds in the design of the US
flag and posters reading "Trump make Israel great again". "Tragically, the US administration has chosen to side with
Israel's exclusivist claims over a city that has for centuries
been sacred to all faiths," the general delegation of the
Palestine Liberation Organisation to the United States said. The US Embassy move "gives life to a religious conflict
instead of a dignified peace," it said in a statement. Israel said all 86 countries with diplomatic missions in
Israel were invited to the event, and 33 confirmed attendance.
Among those present were delegates from Guatemala and Paraguay,
which will open their own Jerusalem embassies later this month. EUROPEAN RIFT Attending the Foreign Ministry gathering were
representatives from Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic,
but none from western European Union states - suggesting a rift
within the bloc over Trump's Jerusalem move. No-show nations withheld comment on Sunday. The EU mission in Israel tweeted on Friday that the bloc
would "respect the international consensus on Jerusalem ...
including on the location of their diplomatic representations
until the final status of Jerusalem is resolved". Outside Jerusalem's ancient Damascus Gate, Israelis danced
in another celebration on Sunday, marking the capture of the Old
City from Arab forces in the 1967 Middle East War. Hundreds of Israeli rightists entered Al Aqsa mosque
compound, an icon of Palestinian nationalism and a vestige of
ancient Jewish temples. Witnesses said some prostrated
themselves in Jewish prayer, violating religious restrictions at
the site and sparking scuffles with Muslim worshippers. Israeli police said several people were forcibly removed and
questioned. The US Treasury secretary called the embassy relocation "a
sign of the enduring friendship and partnership between our two
countries" and also referred to the US withdrawal last week
from the Iran nuclear deal, a move welcomed by Israel and some
US Arab allies in the Gulf but lamented by other world powers. The Palestinians plan to demonstrate against Monday's
inauguration from Arab districts abutting the Jerusalem site. On the border with Gaza, Palestinians have also held
protests as Israel prepares to mark 70 years since its creation,
an event Palestinians call the Nakba, or Catastrophe, when
hundreds of thousands of them were displaced from their homes. More than 40 Palestinians have been killed in the latest
violence. In a recorded speech released on Sunday, al Qaeda leader
Ayman al-Zawahri criticized Trump's decision on the embassy, as
well as the leaders of Muslim countries he said had sold out the
Palestinians. He also said Israel's Tel Aviv was Muslim land. The Trump administration has sought to keep the door open to
Israeli-Palestinian diplomacy by saying the embassy move did not
aim to prejudge Jerusalem's final borders. The US consulate in
the city, tasked with handling Palestinian ties, will remain. Washington has not asked Israel to initiate peace moves in
exchange for the embassy relocation, US Ambassador David
Friedman told reporters on Friday: "There was no give and take
with Israel with regard to this decision." Click here for the latest political news  