Suba Churchill: I do not think there is political will to fight corruption. President Uhuru Kenyatta is a beneficiary of corruption through the alliances he got into that have ensnared him. It will be difficult for him to turn against his associates who helped him come to power. As we talk about NYS and NCPB scandals, let us also not forget corruption that has resulted in depletion of our forests. Failure by the government to deal decisively with the first NYS scandal is the reason we have the second. No meaningful action on corruption has been taken during Uhuru's administration. Read: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal Suba is presiding convener of Civil Society Reference Group & Coordinator, National Civil Society Congress Bishop Alfred  Rotich: Whoever has been asked to step aside for proper investigation should do so. Usually, this will take a political dimension and you will see protection of individuals who have been named. Those who have been named have their people, given Kenyan politics. There is that protection syndrome and nobody would like to be mentioned as being an accessory. Therefore you will see politicians of different shades issuing statements saying they are aligning themselves to the targeted person. Rotich is retired bishop of the Military Ordinariate of the Catholic Church Gideon Moi, Baringo senator I am calling on President Uhuru  to crack the whip on all those who are culpable. This is the only way that can restore faith to the common Kenyan that the President is serious in the fight against corruption, which threatens to derail his Big Four agenda and leave a lasting legacy at the end of his term. Ekuru Aukot The truth of the matter is that the Executive has failed. I think the buck must stop with President Uhuru Kenyatta on one hand. He is the CEO. He appoints all these people. He sits with Cabinet secretaries whose departments cannot prove how the money was stolen. On the other hand, President Uhuru can be blamed because he is the principal but there are also people who have been given this money to manage and spend. I am talking about the procurement officers, the accounting officers. Aukot is leader of the Thirdway Alliance, he ran for President last year Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Click here for the
latest political news