  Referendums are held for many
reasons. One of the main unspoken ones is that they are an avenue for the
political class — unsure of their grip — to assess their own support bases. It
is from the 2005 referendum that ODM was born. Coupled with the need to develop
alliances that later develop into political outfits, it is quite easy to see
why any politician worth their salt would die to have two referendums in less
than a decade! Another reason politicians love
referendums is to get an opportunity to whip the emotions of their followers. Given
the process involves explaining to the masses — with a large percentage being illiterate
and indifferent voters — the complex referendum options, the campaign period is
littered with half-truths, distorted realities and plain lies by politicians
with a sole aim of whipping their emotions. In the end, even when these leaders
lose the plebiscite vote, they are sure to earn a huge following from their own
backyards. Deputy President William Ruto is a perfect example that comes to
mind in regard to the 2010 referendum. Constitutions are living
documents, we are always told. That citizens can, and should change them at the
earliest available opportunity to improve their own livelihoods. Unfortunately,
this narrative may not sell this time round, as our political class will need
to thoroughly convince us that the referendum debate is not solely about them,
especially coming under the backdrop of a bipartisan motion by MPs to increase
their pensions by 700 per cent! By their very nature,
plebiscites are mostly about bipartite choices with no grey areas. But if
Kenyans would be abit more critical, they would realise that this specific
referendum call, more than anything else, will be a proxy war between two main
political factions, with the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession squarely at
the center of it. Not the ballooning wage bill caused by over-representation,
neither is it about the much needed electoral reforms. As it currently stands, the
push for a referendum is not only mischievous but mean, because it will cost us
time, resources and will most likely leave us more polarised. If we must have a referendum,
then it must be about the kind of country we will leave behind when we are all long
gone. It must not be about personal or short term interests that will need
amending again before 2027.  It must be about the lives of millions of
ordinary Kenyans struggling to remain alive today. Because while some are
struggling to add another tier of governance, millions of Kenyans are out there
constantly running away from poverty, disease and death. And many of them have
already succumbed. We can do better than this.  The writer comments on
topical issues