The government intends to borrow Sh276.1 billion from local institutions to finance its expenditure for the 2018/2019 financial year. Budget expenditure documents presented to parliament last week by Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich shows that the expenditure for the next financial year stands at sh2.53 trillion. Projected ordinary revenue to be collected by the Kenya Revenue Authority stands at Sh1.74 trillion. This, as indicated in the documents should be collected by June 30. “ Reflecting the projected expenditures and revenues, the fiscal deficit in the FY 2018/2019 excluding grants amounts to Sh609.8 billion compared to the estimated overall fiscal deficit balance of Sh626.7 billion.” Rotich said. He added that the borrowing plan will be anchored in the medium term debt management strategy to ensure public debt sustainability without crowding out the public sector. EXTERNAL BORROWING Apart from domestic borrowing, the deficit will also be financed by external institutions upto a tune Sh282.5 billion and other net domestic receipts of Sh4.2 billion. Treasury noted that it will utilise the official external sources for loans on concessional terms. “ Non-concessional and commercial external borrowing will be limited to development projects with high financial and economic returns”. Ironically, external financing has been cited as one of the options to meet the expenditure targets despite the documents showing that taxpayers will spend more than half of the expected revenue collection to repay debts in the next financial year. That is Sh 870.52 billion. This spend is about half what has been set aside for the realisation of the big four agenda which amounts to Sh460.2 billion. REVIEW OF INCOME TAX ACT Other sources of financing the budget as signaled by treasury is a complete review of the Income Tax Act with a view of enhancing revenue collection. Rotich said that they expect ordinary revenue to gone up by Sh253.8 billion in the coming financial year. “ This performance will be underpinned by ongoing reforms in tax policy and revenue administration. Going forward, the government will implement various measures to boost revenue mobilisation,” Rotich said, noting that, “ These measures will include a complete overhaul of the current income tax act, strengthening tax administration and expansion of the tax base”. By 2022, the government intends to bring down the fiscal deficit to below three per cent of the total value of goods produced and services provided in a country from the current 7.2 per cent and the projected 5.7 per cent in financial year 2018/2019.    