Bungoma County First Lady Caroline Wangamati has stepped up efforts to enlist mothers under NHIF’s Linda Mama Initiative. In partnership with Mani Project and NHIF, Mrs Wangamati hosted wives to MCAs and sub-county and ward administrators to a workshop last week at St Patrcik’s Pastoral Centre, in Bumula Sub-County. She also brought on board Chiefs, sub Chiefs and women from the Catholic Church. The workshop was meant to orient and incorporate them in the campaign for purposes of ensuring more mothers enroll under the health insurance plan. Wangamati enlightened the participants on how they can use their offices influence more expectant mothers to register to receive free maternal services under the plan. “Currently, only about 46 per cent of our women receive treatment in recognized healthcare centres. This means 54 per cent of our mothers deliver in unknown circumstances,” Mrs Wangamati said. “As leaders in our various capacities, it is our responsibility to ensure that we change the statistics,” she implored the participants at the workshop that ended on Friday. The First Lady has employed a two-pronged approach to safe motherhood which includes leading a robust blood donation campaign across the county. The campaign was informed by the growing blood shortage in Bungoma County and the minimal involvement of the community in blood donation efforts. According to her, Bungoma County needs a monthly supply of 600 units of blood. The blood donation campaign has seen units per month rise to 450 leaving a deficit of 150 units. The First lady hopes to raise monthly blood units to 800 and possibly elevate Bungoma County to regional Blood Bank status. Besides using the programme to help reduce maternal and infant mortality rate in the county, Mrs Wangamati said the Linda Mama initiative will financially benefit county health facilities. “Through this programme, every time a registered mother gives birth in our health facilities, the facility receives a minimum of Sh2,500 which will go a long way to ease the cash flow crisis in hospitals,” she said. “Imagine how much money our facilities would receive if we were able to meet the target of 60,000 registered women by the end of the year” she quipped. “This would mean a whopping Sh150 million will be injected into our healthcare system and in the process enable our facilities to meet some of their bills and relieve the county of some of its financial constraints,” she added. “I hope that after this session, we will all be champions in our respective wards in the drive to register all our mothers on the Linda Mama Initiative,” she told the participants. The workshop came a day after First Lady Margaret Kenyatta toured Bungoma County and called on residents to register with the National Hospital Insurance Fund for better healthcare. The First Lady said registering with the scheme will reduce the burden of hospital care on families. She spoke as she donated equipment to Bungoma County Referral Hospital under the Cure Project. The donation included ICU beds, anaesthesia machines, biopsy instruments, ECG machines, patient monitors, endoscopy machines and an assortment of pharmaceutical and medical supplies. “I hope that the medical supplies and equipment we will enhance the hospital’s efforts to handle more deliveries of babies, as well as surgeries and the many emergencies it encounters daily,” she said. First Lady said she was impressed by the fact that on average, the Bungoma Referral Hospital conducts over 250 major operations and 600 deliveries every month, and that there are plans to expand the services. The facility was elevated to Level 5 status in April last year and currently plans to expand its medical infrastructure to include a maternity and child wing, a theatre for emergency surgeries and critical care services to ease congestion. The two new areas are part of government's agenda on provision of universal health care under the Big Four agenda as well as part of the scope of the First Lady’s Beyond Zero initiative. Click here for the latest political news