Rick Ross' concert of Saturday was all the rage. Everyone wanted a piece of the action and very few got to experience it with the boss. Unfortunately, some members of the first family did not get to hang out with Rick Ross, even after buying out the VVIP tent that was located next to the backstage area at the Carnivore, where the concert was taking place. The tent was surrounded with uniformed and plainclothes police to guard President Uhuru Kenyatta's daughter, Ngina, niece Nana Gecaga and PA Jomo. The plan was, before Rick Ross walked on stage for his performance at 1am, they would each have a photo opportunity with the Hustlin' hitmaker, but that was thwarted. Because his security whisked him straight to stage the minute he walked out of his limo. Not ones to be thwarted, the royal family then sent word via their security detail to the stage manager during Rick Ross' performance, asking him to "make it happen". The stage manager was visibly confused about the command because the request had not been factored into Rick Ross' stage itinerary or plans after his performance. He just kept quiet and let the show continue. After two hours or so of Rick Ross' performance the show was over and the American star was whisked away to his hotel room. A source close to the organisers said Rick Ross had earlier that night suffered "seizures" and had "breathing problems". "His team had to get a masseuse to massage him for an hour before he went on stage. During his whole visit to Kenya, the star did not touch any alcohol." Adding, "That is why when he got on stage he took the seat and was on it for a while." That explains why he was whisked in and out of the concert venue with little ceremony. However, it is commendable to note that despite Rick Ross' health scare, that did not stop the boss from getting on stage and giving a two-hour performance. His fans loved his performance and were that much more grateful for the effort he put in to make sure they were not disappointed. In March, Rick Ross was found unresponsive at his home and was hospitalised for four days.