The Parliamentary Investment Committee has instructed the Auditor-General Edward Ouko to conduct a special audit on unaccounted 4,202 containers destined for Uganda and Rwanda. Members said Kenya Revenue Authority needs to explain the movement of containers form the port to their destination. Commissioner-General John Njiraini who appeared before the committee yesterday could not satisfactorily explain how the containers let the pot prompting the chairman Abdulswamad Nassir to cal for a special audit. This, he said, would help establish the exact amount of the containers that may have been diverted to the Kenyan market. Nassir said the Uganda bound containers comprised 1,052, 20 foot containers and 792, 40 foot containers. "There is such a big loophole in your organisation. This is a very serious case the contents may have been released to the local market and therefore we will write to the office of the Auditor to carry out special audit on this matter," Nassir ruled. Kimini MP Chris Wamalwa said the missing containers could prove to be worse than the current NYS scandal and called for a speedy audit. "If the goods were for transit and there is no evidence to show that they left the country then how do we know they left? There is clear indication of negligence on the part of KRA and the person concerned should be held responsible," he said. Committee vice chairman Ahmed Ibrahim said the special audit will expose any possible conspiracy between KRA and Kenya Ports Auhority officials. Njiraini assured the MPs that all is well and KRA will account for all the containers. He said while initially the containers were said to be missing, the true position is that Uganda had actually not paid the necessary clearance fees. "The claim that the containers were lost was false, there were no Uganda containers that were stolen. It was because they had not paid," he told the committee. Njiraini said there is a task-force already in place to look into the issue. He said during the Northern Corridor Integration Projects Summit meeting  held at Safari Park Nairobi in December 2014, the EAC heads of State raised concern on the need to fast track the release of cargo that had overstayed at the port to free up space . "The main task of the committee was to work on the modalities of implementing the directive. The meeting took place on January 2015 and agreed to waive storage charges an all cargo discharged at the port of Mombasa by November 30,  2014 within 60 days from the date of the notice," he said  