Lawyers in Eldoret locked the High Court on Monday in a protest against a shortage of judges that has stalled hearings. The demonstrators, who numbered at least 300, said they had tried all other means of getting the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) and Chief JUstice David Maraga to solve the crisis. “We had no option but to lock the courts and stage a boycott because it’s Kenyans who suffer when courts cannot operate because of lack of judges," said Zephania Yego, Chairman of the Law Society of Kenya (LSK) in the North Rift. "The three judges who worked here were transferred two months ago. More than 4,000 cases are pending in courts in the town." Yego led the lawyers in locking the gates of the High Court and demanding that Maraga post new judges to the area immediately. The lawyers pinned a banner at the gate and they prevented police from accessing the courts with prisoners whose cases were to be heard. They also set up a makeshift structure at the Environment court, which they said lacks infrastructure for proper operations.  Lawyers in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county, during their protest against a shortage of judges, May 14, 2018. /MATHEWS NDANYI Presiding judge Kanyi Kimondo was transferred two month ago and replaced with Justice Hellen Omondi who was based in Homa Bay. She reported to work in Eldoret today because she was yet to clear her files in Homa Bay. “We met her ... she has requested another two weeks to go back to Homa Bay and clear her cases but that means we will have no judges in Eldoret," Yego said. He said a shortage of magistrates made matters worse: courts in the town had 12 magistrates but half of them were transferred. "There is the tendency to transfer judges and magistrates from this region without replacements. We are tired of having our cases moved by the courts," the Chairman said. He noted that the area needs more than five judges and 15 magistrates. Lawyer Waziri Omollo noted Eldoret had the highest number of pending cases after Nairobi so the CJ should act immediately. Yego and other LSK officials later met Justice Omondi to discuss the crisis for Maraga to be briefed. Related: Justice Odunga transferred to Machakos as Maraga reshuffles judges Click here for the latest political news