Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has urged Kitui leaders to respect each other and avoid wrangles that paint a bad image of the county. He told Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu to cool their tempers as well as traditional singer commonly known as Musyoka Maiyu. Kalonzo urged them to avoid conflicts and instead build Kitui. “I am calling upon Mwingi Wiper chairman Jones Nzomo to ensure Mulyungi and Musyoka have a cup of tea together. You know where we came from. I cannot allow that. Musyoka you should stop attacking leaders in your songs. Respect your leaders,” Kalonzo said. FEARS OF SPLIT At the same time, he urged Mulyungi to respect Ngilu and vice versa since respect is two way. Kalonzo said if the three continue squabbling, they paint a bad picture. They should help Wiper grow stronger rather than fighting among themselves, which might end up in splitting members, he said. Kalonzo said it is public knowledge former Kitui Senator David Musila left Wiper and joined Jubilee. However, he said he can never disrespect Musila or even abuse him since he knows where they came from. Kalonzo told leaders to uphold peace. Attacking each other will not help at all, he said. TEARGAS Musyoka had accused Mulyungi of threatening him last month and the MP said Musyoka defamed him in a song. Mulyungi told Ngilu not to visit his constituency without informing him. He warned her not to set foot there without inviting him. Ngilu’s supporters and members of the county executive accused Mulyungi of disrespect Scores of people were detained at the Mwingi police station last month following chaotic demonstrations in Kitui after Ngilu and Mulyungi’s supporters clashed. Police had to lob teargas to disperse the demonstrators. The MP warned the governor against going to his constituency without infoming him. This infuriated Ngilu’s supporters. Earlier, Ngilu had been forced to postpone her meeting in Mwingi after it was interrupted by some youth believed to be supporters of Mulyungi. Click here for the latest political news