Many women suffer pain during intercourse, which can make sex unenjoyable. It's often a complicated and difficult topic for couples to discuss and address because there are many reasons that could be causing the issue. FEMAIL spoke to Sydney physiotherapist and The Pelvic Expert's Heba Shaheed about the top five reasons women don't find sex pleasurable and what you can do to help. Pain due to endometriosis or inflammation "There are a number of reasons why women do not enjoy sex, with one of the biggest reasons being pain with sex," Heba said. "We often hear about weak pelvic floor muscles and consequent bladder control problems but in the case of painful sex, the pelvic floor muscles become too tight "This is the case in many women who have endometriosis as the chronic inflammation, stress and pain can cause them to tense their pelvic floor muscles," she adds. "Beyond this, the presence of endometriosis behind the uterus in a spot known as the Pouch of Douglas can also cause deep pain with sex." Hormonal changes According to Heba, intercourse can also be painful if the body is struggling with hormonal changes. She said this can commonly occur in the early postpartum period or in the lead up to and during menopause. "In these times, estrogen drops which can cause the walls of the vagina to become thinner and drier, leading to more discomfort during sex," she said. Traumatic birth Although most new mothers are advised to wait at least six weeks before having sex, many may not be able to enjoy intercourse for months. "If a new mother has had a traumatic birth, particularly if she has experienced perineal tearing or vaginal tearing, the presence of scar tissue can cause more pain," Heba explained. "This can lead to women tensing their pelvic floor muscles further, which can lead to more pain." Pelvic organ prolapse "Women may also experience pain with sexual intercourse if they have a pelvic organ prolapse," Heba said. If the uterus and cervix is sagging low, then the act of penetrative sex can be sensitive and painful. Heba said women with tight pelvic floor muscles need to stretch and relax these muscles, and usually require pelvic floor massage from a trained women's health physiotherapist. "If the woman has a pelvic organ prolapse, having a pessary support device fitted by the women's health physiotherapist or a gynaecologist can improve symptoms," she added. "If her walls are thin and dry, the use of estrogen cream in the vagina prescribed by her doctor can help. The use of copious amounts of lubricant during sex can also be helpful." Lack of sexual stimulation Lastly, a lack of sexual stimulation can result in painful sex. "The female arousal system requires about 45 minutes to reach full arousal," Heba said. "At this point the pelvic floor muscles have relaxed, the uterus and cervix have moved up, there is increased lubrication at the entrance of the vagina and higher up near the cervix, and the vagina has lengthened and widened." "In most cases, attempting sexual intercourse with less than 20 minutes of foreplay is a recipe for pain and discomfort. The take-home message for women - foreplay is essential."