The problems facing chairman Wafula Chebukati at the IEBC appear to be self inflicted and politically instigated. Four out of seven commissioners have resigned. The three remaining ones, including the chairman, cannot form the quorum of five required by law to conduct business. The government seems not to be in a hurry to fill the vacancies. Instead, there is pressure from the political class for the remaining commissioners to resign too. The IEBC's ineffectiveness and inefficiency seem to be perpetuated by bad governance and a non-responsive political class. Bob Garratt, author of The fish rots from the head, states that a civil society cannot exist without effective corporate governance necessary to best deploy its economic and social capital. He observes further that all nations have levels of corruption within them that benefit a small group of increasingly powerful people who often stand outside the rule of law. The observation is consistent with the greed and fear seen in Kenya during elections. Therefore, most nations, Kenya included, cannot make changes to the political power balance to encourage corporate accountability and counter national corruption. Kenya is still stuck in a compliance-only time warp. The situation is getting worse because of electoral injustices, slow implementation of the Constitution, weak rule of law and an ineffective selection system for commissioners of independent institutions. From corporate accountability point of view, political interference in the IEBC affairs must be resolved before recruitment of new commissioners. The fear is that commissioners will always lean in or out depending on the government in power. In an ideal situation, all commissioners should have an equal vote in the boardroom, as they are a collegial team. The appointment of commissioners should not be influenced by political parties as they should be independent. The commissioners are public officers and their allegiance should be to the Constitution and the people of Kenya. The commissioners are to exercise individual and corporate judgement. It therefore, beats logic how three commissioners can collectively make a decision to resign outside the boardroom, and before engaging the chairman, who takes ultimate responsibility for the performance and behaviour of the IEBC. The three should individually be held to account and if found culpable be surcharged and barred from holding public office. Good corporate governance demands that the commissioners should understand their responsibilities, and uphold national values. These include integrity, honesty, objectivity and propriety in the stewardship of public resources, respect for control framework, personal standards and professionalism. Paying the commissioners who served under chairman Issack Hassan for the days they were out of office, in my view, was a bad precedence that should not be repeated. For the IEBC to be effective and efficient in conducting credible elections: Sort out reporting structures between full-time commissioners and the CEO of the secretariat; initiate mindset change among political elite to abhor interference and corruption and strengthen corporate governance. Commissioners should not be recruited on the basis of political expediency but strong character and qualifications. Avoid appointing commissioners on full-time basis and paying them exorbitant salaries and benefits. Commissioners should be senior citizens who are not concerned about building careers. The overarching concern of commissioners should be to safeguard their reputation, deliver true justice and be true servants of the people. Finally, Kenyans must ensure that all constitutional independent commissions and institutions perform and are competent measures. Commissioners and directors should be accorded proper capacity building, training and induction to equip them with reflective and intellectual competence.   