Yesterday, TV personality Tony Timase went to record a statement at the Kilimani police station about a college student he allegedly date-raped over the weekend. According to our sources, he reported it as an extortion attempt. The young woman told Word Is, "I was introduced to Tony by a client identified as Jenny. She told me he would help me flourish. I work at a beauty shop along Kiambu Road, and I wanted someone to help me push my business. Tony picked me at Jacaranda along Thika Road on Saturday evening at around 8pm and told me where he was taking me was a surprise. We got to a hotel at around 9pm, and I don't know what happened thereafter. I found myself at a stage full of boda bodas. I called another friend of mine, who later helped me. According to the screenshots we're in possession of, Tony and the woman had a conversation a day later and he admitted to having been with her. In the conversation, the lady asks: "Jana who took me home. And did we do anything odd? haha." The veteran journalist responds: "Sweets si you took a cab. Sina gari saa hii. When it's fixed I will be dropping you always. I actually wanted to keep you till morning." When called for comment, Tony denied the claims, saying: "This is the craziest allegation I've ever heard. It's not true. I don't know a person by that name. On Saturday night, I was watching UCL finals pitting Liverpool against Real Madrid with my friend. After that, I went to Kengeles pub near Nyayo Stadium with my friend and my girlfriend." The accuser's boyfriend blew the lid off the whole issue, and in his chats with Timase, he confronted him for allegedly date-raping his girlfriend. "Stop trying to deny. You have admitted you were with her yesterday," read his message to Timase. Timase replied: "I was not with your wife or any other day. I don't know who Jenny is, and when I was in the game, never did I ask for help to hit on a chick. I always did it myself." The boyfriend said: "You know man I used to respect you sana ukiwa kwa TV but this is how you are? Taking advantage of others just because you're popular? I'm sure you wouldn't let it slide if I slept with your woman, that's if you have one. And so you had to drug her too to sleep with her or what? Because she was pretty much drugged when she came home." The 'lovebirds' claim they've since gone to hospital and are awaiting the doctor's report and will go ahead and report the matter to the police. By the time of going to press, Tony Timase had not yet provided the OB number of the statement with his extortion claims.