Activist Okiya Omtatah has moved to court in a bid to compel
the Judicial Service Commission to re-constitute all tribunals controlled by the Executive. He also wants the court to annul all appointments to the judicial tribunals, which were not made by the JSC through a competitive process. It is unconstitutional for the Executive and other parties to appoint and remove members of the tribunal, he said. Omtatah said the JSC and the Attorney General have failed to transition
Kenya’s tribunal system from the Executive into the ambit of the Judiciary. Read: Consumer lobby lashes out at rent tribunal for ineffectiveness He said the Executive continues to treat tribunals as
an integral part of itself, and by doing so it undermines the independence of the
Judiciary since in the law, tribunals are subordinate courts and integral part
of Judiciary. He says that when the executive litigates before a tribunal
that it has constituted, there is a major violation of the principle of natural
justice that cannot be a judge in its own cause. "When the Executive handpicks and appoints members of
the tribunals, they become agents of the Executive and cannot be considered to
be the independent and impartial tribunals anticipated in Article 50(1) of the
Constitution, or to be part of the independent Judiciary anticipated by Article
160(1),"reads the papers. He argues that there
is no equal justice before the tribunals, when some tribunals operate as part
of Government ministries, department and agencies while others operate as
independent quasi-judicial bodies. The activist further states that the Current tribunal system
is mired with confusion and uncertainty because many of them exist independent
of each other, are appointed and constituted differently and are also called by
different names including tribunal, board, commission committee authority bureau
or council. In his view, because the tribunals are an important
alternative forum to the regular courts for remedying citizen’s grievances,
there is need for consistency and certainty in their legal framework. He further claims that there are over 100 tribunals in Kenya
today that are established under different pieces of legislators that are all
discharging judicial functions in another form or the other and operating under
various administrative structures. “some members of the same tribunal are appointed by the President
and rest by the Cabinet Secretary while in others all members are appointed by
the CS yet in other tribunals the appointment is by different authority such as
the Chief Justice” The petition reads. Omtatah says that he is aggrieved that contrary to Article
24,48,165(3) and 164(3) of the constitution, some of these tribunals deny or
limit the right of litigants to appeal, including to the Superior Courts. More: Insurance tribunal idle as cases pile in courts Click here for the latest political news