If Kenya is serious about the new 2-6-6-3 Curriculum, it needs to start investing in school libraries. As all parents of primary school children are aware, Kenya is currently transitioning from the 8- 4-4 system of education delivery to the new 2-6-6-3 system. With this transition will be the introduction of a new syllabus for ECD, primary, and secondary schools. The complete transition is projected to take seven years, with the rollout for primary schools due to be complete in 2020, and the rollout for secondary schools due to be complete in 2025. This overhaul of the curriculum was long overdue, as it was clear the education system was failing the majority of Kenyan students. A 2013 study found that only 45 per cent of teachers understood the content of the subjects they teach, with 30 per cent failing the same tests they administered to students. The 2015 Uwezo study, which assessed 130,653 students, found that only four in 10 grade-three students could read at a grade-two level. Even more concerning was the fact that this figure had not improved since Uwezo started doing assessments in 2009. One of the reasons cited for poor performance was the lack of access to reading materials. This drew the attention of the national government. In December last year, the Ministry of Education took back control of book procurement, which had been previously assigned to the counties, due to rampant corruption at the sub-national level. The lack of adequate access to reading materials in schools was often attributed to this issue, and there are high hopes schools will soon begin to receive enough textbooks so that students can access the information required for curriculum delivery. This is critical for academic success, as it has been clear that students are not reading widely enough. Last year, after a government crackdown on exam cheating, 90 per cent of the 600,000 students who sat the KCSE exam scored too low to qualify for university, with over 50 per cent failing altogether. Reasons for the poor performance were outlined in a report by the Education ministry and included inadequate language skills, the use of slang, and an overreliance on revision books and past exam papers, which contain too little detail. With the implementation of the new curriculum, there is an expectation these learning outcomes should improve. Currently, the new syllabus has been implemented in ECD and is now rolling out for grades one to three. They are undoubtedly positive. A key example of this is the pedagogical shift that emphasizes learning by doing instead of learning by instruction and memorisation (also known as rote learning), which was so common in the 8-4-4 system. Rote learning is often the chosen method of teaching in African countries, where small budgets necessitate large classes. This is due to the fact that, being readily testable against clear assessment standards, it is a manageable way of delivering content to a big group. In cases where there are insufficient learning materials or no library for students to engage in extended reading or exploratory research, rote learning is often the only way to learn. It is a positive development that Kenya will be moving away from this method of instruction. As it rolls out, learners will be evaluated through Continuous Assessment Tests (CATs) instead of sitting exams. In short, the emphasis will move away from memorisation, and instead towards understanding and application. In this new curriculum, one of the guiding principles is for pertinent and contemporary issues to be mainstreamed in all subjects. In upper primary, learners should explore and experiment. Similarly, the lower secondary curriculum is designed to enable learners to explore their own interests and potential as a basis for choosing subjects according to career paths of interest at senior level. By senior school, learners are expected to be ‘empowered, engaged, and ethical citizens’. A primary aim of this new curriculum is to focus on teaching students skills, as opposed to simply download knowledge. This is an important pivot when considering the 2018 Next Generation Kenya Report, which found that youth who dropped out of primary school or only finished primary school are more likely to be employed or self-employed than those who completed secondary school. Clearly, this reflects a failure in the old model of Basic Education. With its focus on Life Skills Education, and Education for Sustainable Development, the 2-6-6-3 curriculum should help address this troubling statistic. These changes cannot be fully realised unless an adequately funded policy is put in place to provide students with access to a wide variety of information. For students to explore and experiment new ideas, they need to be able to read widely. School libraries are essential partners to seeing the positive outcomes expected from the new curriculum materialise, and a necessity if schools are to produce empowered, engaged, and ethical citizens. We talk about the importance of freedom of speech, but is this right truly exercised when youth cannot articulate their ideas properly, or navigate the complexities of legal, administrative, or business language? We talk about the importance of access to information, but is there really equitable access to information when youth don’t have well-stocked school libraries, and the cost of buying books for private use is prohibitive? If the government is serious about succeeding in the implementation of this curriculum, and realising its ambitious learning outcomes, it must start investing in school libraries.   Senior Education consultant, Knowledge Empowering Youth Trust   