Trade and regional security yesterday dominated bilateral talks between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ethiopian Prime Minister Abi Ahmed Ali. The leaders, who met at State House Nairobi, emphasised the importance of strengthening cooperation to spur prosperity. Ministers from both countries attended the meeting. Uhuru and Ali agreed to have the Ethiopia-Kenya interconnection transmission line finalised. The Ethiopian PM is on a two-day state visit. Read: Uhuru, Ethiopian Premier Abiye Ahmed agree to foster trade, regional security “They committed to the development of Lapsset, the Northern Corridor including road network between Isiolo, Moyale through Addis Ababa and the railway from Addis Ababa to Nairobi,” the leaders said in a joint communique. “Kenya will facilitate the formal acquisition of land in Lamu Port given to the Ethiopian government and the Ethiopian side reiterated its commitment to develop the land for logistical facilitation.” To boost trade ties, the leaders pledged to strengthen cooperation between Kenya Airways and Ethiopian Airlines. Uhuru showed willingness to grant the Ethiopian national carrier a second frequency flight to Mombasa. The leaders said a one stop border shop will be up and running by June. They encouraged the private sectors to identify potential areas of engagement. The leaders decried dwindling support for the war against terror in Somali and the slow pace of efforts to restore peace in the troubled South Sudan. They accused the international community of giving lip service to Amisom. They warned this  threatens the gains made in battling terrorists in the region. “They are concerned about the lukewarm international support for Somalia, particularly the inadequate and unpredictable funding for Amisom,” the leaders said. “The leaders expressed concern over the effects of external interests that are aimed at further destabalising Somalia,” they added. Read: Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiye Ahmed arrives Kenya for two day visit Click here for the latest political news