The National Treasury has drafted a bill to regulate financial institutions in Kenya in what seems as 'soft massage'
to lawmakers to drop their hand stance on the contentious interest cap. Members of Parliament are opposed to
government’s effort to scrap the law that came into force in 2016. The draft regulation, dubbed Financial Market
Conduct Bill, 2018, seeks to protect borrowers from predatory nature of lenders
and is proposing three regulatory bodies to supervise, license and adjudicate cases
within the sector. "National
Treasury has reviewed the challenges in the consumer credit and market conduct
and has developed a draft Financial Markets Conduct Bill, 2018," Treasury PS Kamau Thugge said on Wednesday. "The draft Bill
aims at creating an effective financial consumer protection makes credit more
accessible and at the same time supports financial innovation and competition." The bodies to be formed under the proposed law are Financial
Market Conduct Authority, Financial Sector Ombudsman, and Financial Sector
Tribunal. If the proposal sails through, all
financial institutions, including non-deposit taking ones, will have to acquire financial
conduct licenses from Financial Market Conduct Authority. The certificate is an
equivalent of that of good conduct. The proposed law states that a person shall not provide, as a business or part of a
business, a financial product or a financial service to a retail financial
customer unless they have a financial conduct license. "Whoever contravenes a provision of this
section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of up to Sh10
million or five years in jail," the Bill states in part. The Authority will also establish specific hours within which
financial service firms will be allowed to trade loans. "Looking for customers outside this period could see one fined
Sh5 million or two-year imprisonment for first offence. A repeat offence will
attract Sh10 million or five years in jail." The Bill is also envisioned to guard against loan hawking as lenders
will be barred from entering into a regulated credit contract with a borrower
if that credit is likely to expose the borrower to hardships. Doing so could attract a penalty of Sh10 million for first
offence and Sh20 million in subsequent case. Click here for the latest political news 