A man shot during a clash between police and squatters at Mwea Settlement Scheme three weeks ago has died. Kennedy Mutua from Kamwea was shot in the stomach on April 18. He died at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital on Sunday. Mwea MCA Harrison Mwaluko said a medical report shows the bullet tore through Mutua’s intestines. The family plans to bury him on the disputed Mwea Settlement Scheme. Eight people were injured during the confrontation. Mwaluko said another victim, Kibe Ngau, who was admitted at Embu Level 5 Teaching and Referral Hospital, suffered spinal injuries and needs specialised treatment. He said they are raising funds to offset Ngau’s Sh200,000 medical bill so he can be transferred to Nairobi. Police shot at the settlers, as they allegedly prevented beneficiaries of the disputed Mwea Settlement Scheme subdivision from being shown their land. The heavily armed security officers had escorted some of the 9,232 beneficiaries to the land. The property is in Mbeere South, Embu county. Mwaluko said the squatters were against being displaced from land they have occupied for years. He said calm has returned since Interior CS Fred Matiang’i and his Lands counterpart Faridah Karoney stopped the beneficiaries from being shown around. Elders left out Embu Lands executive Josphat Kithumbu said the demarcation was done according to the law. He said notices were published in the media and all the stakeholders informed. Kithumbu said all those who deserved the land have been considered and the people complaining are not residents of the scheme. He accused politicians of fanning violence for selfish interests. Before the confrontation, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru had opposed the resettlement of squatters on the scheme in Mbeere South. She had warned that the move would “certainly explode” and result in “bloodshed” because Kikuyu elders from Kirinyaga county were not involved. Waiguru said the boundary between the two counties was not clear and elders from the nine Kikuyu clans must be involved. The governor had recommended that officials from Kirinyaga and Embu counties meet to resolve the issue.