The Solai dam tragedy happened last Wednesday when an illegally built
dam owned by Mansukh Patel burst it wall at night, destroying nearly 400 homes
and killing 47 people. As a result, investigations to establish guilt and
responsibility have been demanded. But will they happen? On November 12, 1980, I raised a question in Parliament, asking why the
government had allowed the owner of the Patel farm to divert three rivers into
a private dam for irrigation of coffee, when thousands of people in the neighbourhood
and near vicinity in Marigu, Bommet, Nyakinyua, Ndabibi and other farms had no
water to drink or cook with. Ngengi Muigai, who was then assistant minister for Water Development
told Parliament a situation like that would be illegal since Patel was required
to share the dam water with the people in Solai. He promised to investigate and
take action against anything that was irregular or illegal. Obviously, the government did not keep its promise because 38 years
later, the National Environment
Management Authority has stated Patel dams were illegally built. And
without government investigations, it is also true that with the establishment
of more dams, people around Solai continued to lack water up to the point when
the dam burst and killed many. Surprisingly, the Patel Solai Group is talking about investigating the
Solai tragedy. Yet the whole tragedy happened when they were in charge. How can
they suggest self-investigation, intended as an alternative to government
investigation? Will the government establish who was responsible for the Solai tragedy and
also why Patel enjoys protection with the dams, and in denying neighbours water?
Will it matter that lives have been lost? Surprisingly, Patel has not been arrested or requested to write a
statement with the police, as yet. Instead, President Uhuru Kenyatta has
promised that the collapsed dam will be reconstructed, presumably with taxpayers’
money in order to give people water, possibly under the continued ownership by
Patel. That Patel has also not even found it necessary to go to any public
meeting to share in any discussions about the tragedy proves the incredible
impunity that he enjoys, and will most likely stand in the way of any attempted
investigations.  Leaders do not also mention
his name in these meetings. Could it be true that Patel and his connections are
so powerful that some people call him “the God of Solai”? Victims of Solai tragedy complain that the leadership does not feel
their pain. Compared to the rich, who have suffered similar tragedies, they
don’t feel treated with equal respect and dignity: They feel treated as
children of lesser gods. Yes, they have heard Patel being praised for his philanthropy. That he
has built schools, roads and a maternity ward at Bahati Sub-District Hospital.
But still, they complain of being denied water, without which there can be no
life. They complain of being paid too little to save anything. Many question
the genuineness of Patel’s philanthropy, and compare it with that of colonial
settlers. Colonialists made Africans too poor to build themselves anything —
not schools, not hospitals, not roads, not anything. After enriching themselves
with the sweat and blood of Africans, they built them roads, hospitals and
schools and for it, they called themselves philanthropists. Whom shall we blame for the Solai tragedy? As one old man of Solai said,
the first culprit for this tragedy is corruption. The people of Solai remember
how they were told by the Patel Farm management to take their complaints where
they wanted because he was sure of protection from government officers, whom he
had already bribed. The second person to blame is Patel, without whose
arrogance and negligence the people could have been evacuated and saved. The government
is also guilty of its failure to investigate complaints residents made. When
government fails to solve people’s complaints, when it can, it is guilty of
criminal negligence. To put things right, we must not just admit our failures in regard to this
tragedy. We must do everything possible to avoid future tragic events like the one
waiting to happen at Kagoto, Heshima area in Nakuru, where Amolak Singh and
Karsan Ramji companies have dug a deep hole into the side of Menengai Hill. Dynamites
cause earthquake tremors that make cracks on house walls and will sooner rather
than later induce landslides that will kill many, unless use of dynamites is
stopped now when Tsunami-like rains are falling. Ultimately, the best justice Patel can give Solai victims is to take
part of his land to settle them. 