Education Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has defended the deployment of heads of secondary schools to regions other than their place of birth. She says this was done in the best interest of the students and the educational sector as a whole. Amina said the delocalisation policy adopted by the Teachers Service Commission aims at creating a national outlook in the mindset of the school heads by appreciating the cultural diversities of Kenya. The CS said the policy will enable school heads to effectively nurture learners who hail from different cultural environments into patriotic members of our society. She made the remarks at her Jogoo House office last Friday when he she received over 80 students who topped in last year’s KCPE examinations in their respective counties. The students had toured the Ministry of Education offices under the Pupils Reward Scheme (PURES Village) — Program for Top Students which enables them to stay in State House for an entire week and learn about government operations. Read: Visiting Ethiopian PM Abiy hails Uhuru’s student mentorship programme Earlier, a student had asked why the government had decided to deploy school heads far away from the places they were born and bred, alleging that it was a punishment to heads. She advised the students to make the right choices in their lives. "If you don’t choose well, you will hate waking up every morning to work," Amina said. She advised them to develop their own individuality saying they should not anybody else standards do what they do. Basic Education principal secretary Belio Kipsang assured the students that the curriculum reform the ministry was undertaking was in the best interest of the children of Kenya. Vocational and Technical and Training (VTT) PS Kevit Desai said there were no failures in our educational system. He said the government provided room for all learners to follow up on their interests and inclinations saying the Technical Vocational Education and Training system provided huge opportunities to think about failure in a national educational system. Micheni Ntiba, PS University Education and Research,  said the students should see themselves as potential leaders. He said each of them should have the ambition and the drive to take advantage of the educational opportunities their parents and the government had afforded them. The students were accompanied by the Director of the Scheme Florence Awori. Click here for the latest political news 