President Uhuru Kenyatta should declare polio virus eradication a national public health emergency in Kenya, the World Health Organisation has advised. The WHO said this emergency status should be maintained for one year until there is evidence the transmission has been stopped. The vaccine derived wild polio virus was detected in a sewage in Eastleigh in March. Similar viruses have been found in Somalia, Nigeria, and DR Congo, which have already declared it a public health emergency. “These countries should officially declare, if not already done, at the level of head of state or government, that the interruption of poliovirus transmission is a national public health emergency and implement all required measures to support polio eradication,” the WHO said in a statement. Read: No Ebola in Kenya, travellers to be screened at JKIA - Health ministry The recommendation was made by the WHO's emergency committee under the International Health Regulations, convened to discuss the polio outbreak. The committee noted the virus in Kenya and Somalia appears to have circulated undetected for up to four years. “The new outbreak of cVDPV2 with international spread affecting Somalia and Kenya is a major concern,” said the team. “While the robust response to date was commendable, the lack of clarity about where the virus emerged and circulated for a prolonged period prior to detection means that it remains unsure whether the population currently being targeted is sufficient.” Kenya's efforts to eradicate polio are complicated by the constant movement of undocumented migrants from Somalia. Last week, the government said it spent Sh100 million on the five-day oral polio vaccination of children under five years in Nairobi, which ended yesterday. Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko said in June and July, nearly 2.4 million children under five years in Nairobi and other 11 high-risk counties will also be vaccinated against the disease. He said isolation of polio viruses from environmental samples in March shows Kenya's surveillance system is sensitive and functional. However, Kioko said, it’s necessary to strengthen surveillance of acute flaccid paralysis indicators as well as routine immunisation. “To eradicate polio, we need to stop all strains of the virus, including vaccine-derived polio viruses,” Dr Kioko said. The vaccine-derived virus was found in sewage samples in Eastleigh on March 21 this year during routine surveillance. It comes from the oral polio vaccine given mostly to children, which contains a live, but weakened virus. If the children were not adequately immunised, the weakened vaccine virus mutates in their intestines and is excreted as a wild or naturally occurring virus. The US Centres for Disease Control has linked the strain to Somalia, which means it may have been brought into Kenya. Read: Kenya on alert as DRC Ebola outbreak kills 17 Click here for the latest political news