A section of Ford Kenya youth leaders from Bungoma are bitter with ANC
leader Musalia Mudavadi. Reason? Our mole has told Corridors that Mudavadi’s
secret night meeting with ODM leader Raila Odinga in a Kisumu hotel a fortnight
ago without the knowledge of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula has not gone
well with the youth leaders. It is said they are contemplating asking
Wetang’ula to abandon the Ford Kenya–ANC merger plan unless Mudavadi clears the
air on the meeting. The youth leaders believe Mudavadi is not sincere or
committed to the Luhya unity and merger. **** Word has it that an organized criminal group known as ‘Othaya Mafia’ or ‘Othaya
Triple ‘K’ has ganged up to hunt down targeted ‘enemies’ in government blocking
their ‘eating’ mission. The trio has now recruited a senior officer from the office
of the Director of Public Prosecutions to humiliate their targets in their vicious
hunting spree. It’s said a serial offender who is a bosom buddy of one of the
Othaya Ks has vowed that he will ‘finish’ a PS and a head of a critical state
department. Corridors has been told that the most influential mastermind of the
Trio plotting against the two innocent public officers to scoop his booty from
assorted suppliers is unhappy for frustrating his deals since they assumed
office. **** Intimidated lecturers who have resumed teaching seem to be giving students a
raw deal. Our mole heard a number of students in one of universities in Nairobi
lamenting that they are not gaining anything at all. It is said the dons who
have been threatened with the sack if they continue striking are signing the
attendance register without teaching. The students were heard saying lecturers
are bombarding them with assignments and leaving class early. This has made
learners wonder if they are getting value for their fees. ***** The ongoing leadership wrangles in the Kenya National Union of Teachers seem
to have angered many teachers. Word has it that some teachers are fearing that
their giant union is headed in the wrong direction that the once powerful
nurses' union found itself due to the unending fighting between its secretary
general Seth Panyako and expelled chairman John Bii. The teachers, especially
from western, Nyanza, coast and part of Rift Valley, have sworn to stand by secretary
general Wilson Sossion by hook or crook and ensure the union does not sink. It
is said that they still have unwavering trust in Sossion to fight for the
teachers' welfare in Parliament unlike in the past when he led teachers in
protests to petition Parliament. Click here for the latest political news