Nairobi Woman Rep Esther Passaris has hit back at 'team mafisi' for trolling at her daughter. Passaris on her twitter handle warned the group saying her daughter Kenna though a beautiful soul awaiting a soul mate, she was not a lottery ticket. "In my daughter's eyes, I see a mature girl ready to take on the world, one who can think deeply and dare to find solutions. I love you Kenna and I know you will bloom in your own time. Don't rush through life's mysteries, but enjoy every stage. Happy, Happy 22nd Birthday," Passaris had written in praise of her daughter. Her male followers took advantage to seek more details about Kenna. Read: Adopt-a- light's Esther Passaris into modelling Bernard Kimutai in his response said, "I need coordinates to your compound. Who knows, luck may make me your son-in-law". But Passaris hit back saying, "Hard work. Good Values and Character. Never Luck. She isn't a lottery ticket. A beautiful soul waiting for her soul mate. Mummy has nothing to do with it. This is where #DreamsNotValid The Science and Statistics of life are harder and tougher in real life than in the classroom". Elias Mwanja in support said Passaris should ensure that 'Mafisi Sacco' are kept off from her. Another user by name Aris twitted, "I see Mafisi Sacco members have already reported for duty... A mum's biggest nightmare". But Passaris in a quick rejoinder responded saying "Thank God am awake". This later turned into a joke with her followers hitting back. Eng Ephraim said,"Mhesh av been loitering looking for a gal aged between 22-24. Kumbe una tuirio twega hivi. Iyo link ukam through. Happy birthday wife to be". While another user said, "Hi kenna , ever heard of love at first sight. I believe I found my soulmate", Muchiri wa Njoroge said, "Thanx so much for bringing up such a beautiful woman. We team Mafisi will take good care of her". Another user hit back at Passaris asking why she had not tagged her daughter on her tweet. "Is she on Twitter? You didn't even @ her. So let me guess, this is more of you showing off to the world than wishing her a happy bday. But she cute though. You are justified to show her off," he said. Passaris in her defense said, "I am protecting my baby girl from our 'peculiar habits". While some of her followers cracked joke saying Kenna holds the key to their future and in her they see a wife, others demanded the MP to post the conditions of getting to her daughter's inner circles.Click here for the latest political news