Infrastructure PS Julius Korir has attributed the deplorable state of Nairobi roads to the assignment of work to incompetent contractors. He said Nairobi county must weed out those who do shoddy work and have them delisted by road agencies. "Most of the roads within Nairobi are in the hands of careless contractors who have failed to ensure standards are met," the PS noted at Traffic Management Centre (TMC) in Nairobi on Wednesday. The TMC is home to the Intelligent Traffic System (ITS) for controlling traffic at seven junctions along Nairobi Western ring roads. To county officials, Korir said: "I urge you to entrench performance-based systems of contracts and move towards weeding out contractors who do shoddy work." Kenyans have raised concern over the deplorable state of Nairobi roads in the wake of heavy rains that make matters worse. Governor Mike Sonko, however, explained that some of the roads are managed by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority so the county should not shoulder the burden. More on this: [Photos] Nairobians cry foul after rains leave roads potholed, filthy Also read: KURA completes Kasarani-Mwiki road after residents outcry Citing the just completed section of Kasarani-Mwiki Road, Korir lauded Kura's efforts in mitigating the effects of the heavy rains and floods He also hailed the efficiency and professionalism exhibited in work on Outering Road, which is currently in its last phase of completion. "I am glad the road has drastically reduced congestion from [a time equivalent of] two hours to about 15 minutes. It will be a model for many other projects in the country." Korir pledged to assist road agencies in protecting road reserves and ending illegal encroachment for efficient implementation of projects. Read: KURA erects first footbridge along Outering Road in Baba Dogo after public outcry The PS said the Nairobi Regeneration Team formed by President Uhuru Kenyatta will unlock challenges in urban infrastructure. Kura Director general Silas Kinoti called for the quick design of Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) routes for implementation in good time. Click here for the latest political news