Deputy President William Ruto's Mt Kenya allies have withdrawn from his inner circle as signs emerged that power brokers from the region were plotting against his 2022 presidential bid. Details of the latest Mt Kenya machinations emerged as the succession battle took a new turn—President Uhuru Kenyatta publicly denounced the referendum crusade spearheaded by his handshake partner Opposition chief Raila Odinga. The Star has established that Mount Kenya MPs, who have been at the forefront of championing the DP's presidential bid, have beaten a strategic retreat and adopted a wait-and-see attitude. Aware of discreet planning by powerful individuals –– both in government and outside –– the lawmakers have taken a backseat, fearing they could be swept aside by fluid political dynamics. Matters have been made worse for the DP after Uhuru issued a stern warning against premature succession campaigns, insisting on services before all else. Read : Rudderless DP Ruto is at sea However, Uhuru's statement on Friday about the referendum came as a shocker. There have been claims that influential individuals with State House connections were quietly backing Raila's referendum push to radically change the structure of the executive. A top civil servant, a senior Jubilee Party official, a political strategist and a member of the First Family are said to be among an informal group said to have been clandestinely supporting the law change. There are claims that the group has been asking DP allies from the Mt Kenya region to 'go slow' in their support for Ruto. A senior Jubilee leader and close Ruto ally is said to have been slapped with a Sh1.2 billion tax evasion bill, as part of the manouevring to silence the DP's brigade. As first publicly stated by Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli, the clique was championing the constitutional change to grant Uhuru a plum position in the executive after his retirement in 2022. “They want the President to become the Executive Prime Minister in 2022 because they say he is too young to retire,” a source familiar with the behind-the-scene intrigues told the Star. During Labour Day Celebrations on May 1, Atwoli surprised Kenyans when he supported a referendum to insulate Uhuru when he completes his two constitutional terms. “Let us amend this Constitution and adopt the Bomas Draft to fight exclusion, realising that not all of us can be President. This will allow us to accommodate President Uhuru Kenyatta, who is very young. Otherwise, where are we going to take him?” the vocal trade unionist asked. Missing in action from Ruto's whirlwind countrywide tours are his main point men from Central Kenya, who previously accompanied him on his charm offensive. Yesterday, however, Central Kenya MPs who spoke to the Star strenuously denied that they had developed cold feet about supporting Ruto. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said the Ruto's countrywide visits have logistical challenges and MPs also have to serve their constituents. “Mount Kenya MPs are mostly within their region, rarely do they go out. And he [Ruto] has not been in the region for some time. But when he comes, we are always there just a when the President visits. Show me one time when he was in the region and he was without MPs?” Kuria asked. Also read : IPSOS: Ruto preferred president in 2022, Gideon, Raila and Joho tie Murang'a Senator Irungu Khang'ata said Ruto still enjoys enjoys the backing of Central Kenya and leaders may only miss his events if they are not invited. “First and foremost, I see several members accompanying the Deputy President. I was at the burial of [Baringo South MP] Grace Kipchoim and there were so many of us there," Khang'ata said. “Although I am also aware there are instances he may go somewhere and his handlers fail to notify people. You see, if that happens, no one will then know his itinerary.” Khang'ata, who is also the Senate Majority Whip was adamant. “The handshake had no impact at all. You know, Raila is not popular in our region." There have been fears in the DP's camp that powerful forces could team up and crush Ruto at the referendum too close to the 2022 General Election. The potent formation would then be likely replicated in the polls to the disadvantage of the DP. “There is a silent push for a Jubilee delegates' conference to take a position on the referendum and to affirm that Ruto is still the party's presidential candidate,” a source within the ruling party disclosed. However, the going is tough not only for the former Eldoret North MP but for also for Raila, after Uhuru’s anti-referendum remarks appeared to throw the opposition camp into disarray. Raila’s lieutenants yesterday moved to allay fears the handshake deal could be jolted by Uhuru’s new declaration, saying like any Kenyan, the President was entitled to his personal opinion. “In a democracy, even the President, as an individual, can make his views known. Anybody who thinks the President erred is wrong, as the President is entitled to his opinion. I, however, don’t think that is the official government position,” ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire said. The former Kitutu Masaba MP faulted the President, however, for making his position known too early, even as he said Kenyans will have the final say. “The Constitution doesn’t belong to an individual. Kenyans will have their say. The President jumped onto the bandwagon too early, though,” he said. National Assembly Public Accounts Committee Chairman Opiyo Wandayi told the Star there was no cause for alarm as the President was giving his personal views regarding the debate on Constitutional changes. “Like any other Kenyan, the President has his own views, and so do others. It is a healthy to have a diversity of views to debate. These are the views that need to be brought to the table for Kenyans to agree,” the Ugunja MP said. The lawmaker said it would be foolhardy to expect unanimity in views across the political divide on a weighty matter such as the push for a referendum. “There shouldn’t be reason to read too much into them [views],” the MP said. He warned against linking the referendum to the 2022 presidential election, saying sweeping reforms of national importance cannot be 'tied' to elections. Click here for the latest political news