Some Sh35 billion set aside for the County Pension Scheme is at risk of being diverted to another programme due to lack of legal framework to disburse it, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Ruto yesterday called on the National Assembly and the Senate to hasten the enactment of the County Pension Scheme Bill, 2017, which is sponsored by Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua. If the bill, which was introduced in the National Assembly last year, sails through, the County Pension Scheme will be created to replace LapFund, which currently manages the retirement contributions for county government staff . “This matter should be brought to conclusion in weeks, not months,” Ruto said. Read: Faulty schedule delaying release of county funds – CS Henry Rotich He spoke at the Third Annual Legislative Summit at Pride Inn Paradise Beach Hotel in Mombasa, after opening it. This came amid calls by MCAs to have the bill in place to allow those who have served for at least two consecutive terms to be eligible for pension. “We want the County Pensions Bill passed,” County Assemblies Forum secretary general Eric Mwangi said. Ruto urged all the agencies involved in the matter to work together to ensure “the MCAs are well taken care of”. He decried the wastage of public money in “unnecessary” inter and intra-governmental litigation and asked MPs and senators to develop a legislation that will stop unnecessary cases. He said the situation has reached “crisis level”, as 13 counties lost Sh560 million to lawyers in the last one year alone in cases where Alternative Dispute Resolution Mechanism would have been used. “There is a case where one county has paid Sh100 million to one lawyer. It is a challenge we must deal with as leaders,” the DP said. The DP also asked counties to improve on their revenue collection streams to avoid pending bills. All the 47 counties have a combined Sh99 billion in pending bills because counties issued contracts and LPOs based on approximation of revenues to be collected, which were, however, never collected. Also read: Dismiss Rotich's proposal to slash county cash by Sh18b, governors ask Senate Click here for the latest political news