The departments of health across all counties have been cited as the most corrupt according to the latest statistics from the EACC. In the findings dubbed ‘National ethics and corruption survey report’ the level of corruption in county health services stood at 37.4 percent followed by that of public works and services at 22.5 percent. Departments of Education and child care came third at 15 percent followed by finance and economic planning which stood at 8.6 percent in the indices. According to EACC commissioner Dr. Dabar Maalim, departments of water and lands were least corrupt at 7.8 percent and 7.5 percent respectively. Read:Matiang'i's interior ministry is the most corrupt - EACC Maalim said the figures sampled from residents across all counties who expressed dismay in the manner in which the sectors listed were carrying out their duties. “While we admit that a lot has been realized in the first cycle of devolution much more remains undone as a consequence of the corruption and mismanagement of public resources in the counties,” he said. He said the Commission had also witnessed an upsurge of reports on corruption and unethical conduct from the county governments. Maalim said by the end of 2017 at least 100 county officials were charged in court with various corruption and unethical conduct offences. During the same period, Maalim said the commission had received a total of 4,242 reports on corruption and unethical conduct involving counties with 3,243 cases taken up for investigations. “These reports range from embezzlement of public funds, conflict of interest, tribalism, nepotism and cronyism's in the appointment of staff in key sections,” he said. Maalim was speaking to the press when he opened a two-day Capacity Building workshop on Leadership and Integrity for County Executive Committee members of Narok County at Enashipai Resort in Naivasha. He said the commission was carrying out training to the county executives as one way of dealing with corruption at the county level. “The aim should be to create a culture of integrity within the county public service and at all levels of the organization by continuously auditing and improving on the systems,” he said. Narok Deputy Governor Evelyn Aruasa said the county had been ranked the least in corruption indexes saying they were making efforts to ensure the vice is wiped out completely. “As a result, we have established a fully fledged directorate of ethics and anti-corruption affairs and we are in the process of equipping it to be able to perform its duties as required by law,”. Also read:Ex-KFS chair faces EACC probe, public office ban over corruption Click here for the latest political news 