The law should be changed to provide for execution of persons involved in mega-corruption to end the vice, Lugari MP Ayub Savula has said. Savula said provisions of the penal code are too lenient for suspects of grand corruption. Strengthening the law would deter people from engaging in graft. He said chapter four of the Constitution on the bill of rights should be amended to provide for people found culpable of corruption involving Sh1 billion and above to be executed publicly.] "Someone who steals Sh1 billion is equivalent to a murderer. How many people would die in hospitals for lack of medicine as a result of the theft?" he said. Savula spoke at a memorial service for the late housing minister Soita Shitanda at Butali village on Saturday. He said that EACC should be given prosecutorial powers. The legislator said there were many “big thieves” living in their homes while petty thieves rot in the jails. His proposal is likely to stir a heated debate particularly by human right defenders as the Constitution expressly guarantees every Kenyan the right to life. Article 26 (1) says every person has the right to life. Article 26 ( 3 ) says that a person shall not be deprived of life intentionally, except to the extent authorised by the Constitution or any other law. Savula said corruption had reached alarming levels and leaders from across the political divide should unite and amend the constitution to strengthen institutions fighting the vice. "Blaming President Uhuru Kenyatta will not solve the problem because it is the police, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the courts that are charged with dealing with corruption. They cannot succeed while working under weak systems," he said. ODM leader Raila Odinga said on Saturday he and President Kenyatta would form a task force to end corruption in Kenya. Speaking at a funeral at Mungatsi in Nambale sub-county, Raila said the fight against corruption was part of the MoU he signed with the President for their handshake on March 9. The Jubilee administration has been rocked by mega-corruption since coming to power in 2013. Current scandals are at the National Youth Service and the NCPB. On Thursday, DPP Noordin Haji and DCI George Kinoti began reviewing evidence gathered by detectives in the Sh9 billion NYS scandal. Click here for the latest political news 