City Hall wants to evict 68 teachers employed by the Teachers Service Commission from its houses over unpaid rent amounting to Sh14 million. According to a document titled 'Institutional Duty Houses – Education Department,' only two out of 70 TSC teachers residing in county-owned houses in school compounds, do not have rent arrears. Education executive Janet Muthoni has already prepared a memo that she will next week table before county executive committee [CEC] for adoption to evict the defaulters. “There is no justification at all why teachers, who get house allowance from TSC, should not pay rent. I have drafted this memo that I will table in the cabinet to evict all the defaulters and regularize the allocation of the houses,” she said. The teachers are among the tenants of the 197 houses built within compounds of public primary schools in the county. Other tenants include drivers, security officers, PTA (Parents and Teachers Association) teachers, parking attendants, messengers and clerks in the education department. This category of tenants do not have arrears as their rent is deducted by their employer (City Hall) from their payroll. The houses, comprising of 92 single rooms, 51 one-bed rooms, 35 two-bedrooms and 19 three - bedrooms were built by the now defunct Nairobi City Council. Muthoni said the county is supposed to generate Sh920,000 in rent from the houses every month or Sh11 million per year, but it has never realised its full potential because of defaulters. The rent ranges between Sh2500 and Sh12,000 depending on the size of the room and the location. P1 teachers in Nairobi get Sh6,400 in house allowance – the least a teacher in the city gets. The CEC said the county has already written to TSC seeking to recover the money and is also considering legal action against the defaulters. “I want us to regularize the way we allocate these houses so that we be careful with the people we allocate because some people think that if they are working for the government, then they should not pay rent,” Muthoni said. According to the document seen by the Star, a teacher at Milimani Primary School owes the county Sh919,500 for a three bed room house whose rent is Sh10,000 per month. Another one in the same institution owes Sh238, 000 for two bed room house whose rent per month is Sh8,500. Sixteen teachers residing in houses at Nairobi Primary owes City Hall at a total of Sh2 million. Three teachers at Bahati Primary are yet to pay Sh424, 500 while in Baba Dogo Primary school, one teacher is yet to clear Sh105,000 for the two bedroom house she lives in. Some four teachers at Cannon Apollo Primary School are yet to clear Sh629, 500 and three tutors at Karura Forest Primary School owe Sh371, 000. Several stakeholders have in the past raised concerns about 'outsiders' occupying houses meant for teachers. In March, Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati said during an education stakeholders forum at St. Gorges Girls' High School that teachers in his constituency were suffering as former city staffers had declined to vacate the houses. In 2016, former Governor Evans Kidero gave “outsiders” occupying residential houses in school compounds 30 days to vacate and hand them over to the institutions’ administration. The directive was not obeyed.