Rampant and unsustainable logging in rural areas is worsening environmental hardship and degradation, leading to a cycle of droughts and floods. The logging is not only ruining soil but also causing permanent damage to forests, which most communities depend on for water, subsistence food, building materials and natural medicines. Cutting down of trees has increased in most rural areas due to demand for charcoal as a source of energy for cooking and its production as a source of employment. Although the government has put more emphasis on protecting forests, areas that are not classified as forests have experienced cutting down of trees, which has led to environmental devastation. Ordinarily, rural homesteads have been cutting trees for firewood before the increase in demand for charcoal in urban areas. This clearing of trees is dangerous as it is not followed by replanting of new ones. Planning PS Julius Muia says stopping tree destruction should begin with finding out its cause. He said to deal with the problem of deforestation in rural areas, the problem of cooking energy must be addressed. He says trees besides logging for timber, trees are cut to feed the need for charcoal and firewood, because they are the major source of cooking fuel in rural areas. Muia says technologies should be adopted, for instance, use of bricketes. This is dry matter like leaves and fallen branches or dry grass compacted with little soil, which burns and generates more heat than the typical wood. This would substitute the use of charcoal or firewood that causes cutting trees and using the wood for generating cooking energy. He says developed countries don't use charcoal and firewood as a source of cooking energy. Instead, most use electricity, Liquefied Petroleum Gas [LPG], and, in some countries, coal. As Kenya develops and grows its economy, the source of cooking energy is going to shift to slightly more advanced ones, and that is where more people will be using LPG gas, biogas and bricketes. "The adoption and acceptability of the alternative source of energy is a question of time or developmental issues because as you earn higher incomes, then you will be comfortable to afford slightly more expensive but better sources of energy for cooking," Muia says. QUESTION OF INCOME The PS says acceptability of new forms of energy is a question of income levels. If there is an increase in the income levels of Kenyans, they are going to be raised from using the primary and traditional sources of cooking energy - firewood and charcoal, to using other intermediate sources of energy for cooking: LPG and electricity. "That is what the Vision 2030 is trying to do because when we say we want to be a prosperous country, we want people to be living in a decent and good environment, which is secure and clean. Then you have to migrate people from poverty because prosperity will migrate people from using fuel from wood and that is not a case for Kenya, but a proven metric the world over," Muia says. The PS says interventions by government in terms of subsidy help people at the bottom of the pyramid to upgrade their fuel sources. However, one has to balance that with market forces in terms of sustainability, with considerations like how long a subsidy can be sustained and how many people will be included in that subsidy programme as it is being introduced. The PS says the subsidy can be a short-term measure, but in the long term, it is likely to become expensive. "What is important for us is to ask ourselves what is needed for Kenya to be competitive. Because we say by 2030 we want to be a globally competitive economy, then it means that we will have to address the value-chain process of the services that we render and of the goods that we produce. That therefore means that to be able to achieve a unit cost of production of energy that is comparable to other countries," he said. "Those are the things that as we develop as a country we should look at. Technology is going to give us a lower limit cost of production of electricity and its transmission and distribution. Those are the aspects in our development framework that we are addressing as we develop to make sure that we address the unit cost of production of electricity, so that we can be globally competitive." Click here for the latest political news 