At the World Malaria Summit held mid-April in London, alongside the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, world leading companies in agriculture – BASF, Mitsui Chemicals, Sumitomo Chemical Company, Syngenta and Bayer, represented by myself – united under the banner “Zero by 40” and pledged our support to eradicate malaria by 2040. We believe it is both our corporate and civic responsibility to now join in reaffirming our commitment to the research, development and supply of innovative vector control solutions, such as long-lasting insecticide treated bed-nets (LLINs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS), which remain the most effective and cost efficient means to prevent malaria, and thus save lives, today. In line with the theme of this year’s World Malaria Day, 'Ready to beat malaria', this unprecedented alliance of industry competitors also reminds us of the urgency for continued investment for malaria prevention, control and eventually eradication. Nearly half of the world’s population is still at risk and every two minutes a child in Africa dies of the disease. Much progress has been made since 2000 thanks to the effective collaboration between private and public actors as the global malaria mortality rate was reduced by 60 percent between 2000 and 2015. Today, however, progress has stalled for the first time in fifteen years and we are currently facing a deadly resurgence: there were 5 million more cases of malaria in 2016 compared to the previous year, 91 countries remain endemic, primarily in Africa, where 91 per cent of deaths occur. A combination of several factors are thought to have led to this resurgence, be it the reliance on global funding which has plateaued in recent years, growing resistance of mosquitoes to the limited number of insecticides available for use in vector control, climate change creating weather patterns more favourable to the disease and acute malaria outbreaks in areas of war and conflict. Hence there is no further evidence needed to say that malaria remains a fundamental humanitarian challenge. A challenge that is far too complex and widespread to be handled by single actors. It needs the renewed and reaffirmed commitment and investments from all stakeholders to make the decisive step and help end malaria for good. As a leading company in agriculture Bayer has decided to highlight the role we have to play. The 'Zero by 40' initiative, supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and coordinated by the Liverpool based IVCC (Innovative Vector Control Consortium), focuses - although not exclusively - on mobilising diverse expert knowledge and resources to deliver a pipeline of innovative vector control tools which respond to the emerging challenge of mosquito resistance. Malaria, a predominantly rural disease, is a major cause of poverty and a major threat to agricultural systems in many areas of Africa where the small farming communities, which produce most of the local food resources, are severely affected. Thus fighting against the disease is inherently linked to Bayer’s mission as a leading company in the agriculture sector to create sustainable agricultural systems and ensure food supply for growing populations. It is also in full alignment with Bayer’s “Science for a Better Life” purpose. We are convinced that in using our research, resources, expertise and data we can fight the vector, reduce the disease burden, contribute to a stable food supply, and thus help breaking the poverty cycle. As mentioned earlier, however, the complexity of the challenge urgently calls for the collective energy and commitment of the global malaria community. Alongside our pledge in London, philanthropists, business leaders and ministers from donor and malaria-affected countries and international organisations additionally committed to invest over $4.1 billion to wipe out the deadly disease. They sent a clear signal: there is no standing still, we need to act now. And while the mission to eradicate malaria by 2040 is certainly bold and ambitious, I am a firm believer that great things can be accomplished when leaders, and even industry competitors, unite in the name of a common goal. Until eradication is achieved, we will need to maintain the level of renewed energy created in London and keep up the momentum, and I ask myself “Who are going to be the next actors to join our common efforts?” Lifting the estimated annual US$12 billion economic burden that malaria represents for Africa alone is one of these great things eradication would accomplish; it would enable children, who are the ones mainly affected by the disease, to grow up with purpose and fulfil their potential to imagine new solutions for the next generation. Jacqueline M Applegate, Member of the Crop Science Executive Committee & President of Environmental Science of Bayer 