At least 30 suspects in the NYS scandal risk a fine of up to Sh58 million each if convicted of committing economic crimes relating to the loss of Sh468 million from NYS. Each of the suspects also risks a one-year jail term or both the jail term and the fine. Apart from the above charge, Youth and Gender PS Lillian Omollo, who was among the 24 people arraigned in court on Tuesday, also faced a different charge of abuse of office. Read; How NYS suspects tried to block arrest Related: NYS boss Richard Ndubai, three senior officials arrested over Sh9bn scandal The court was told that the PS used her office to improperly approve the payment of Sh28,766,700 million to Ameri Trade Limited for goods that were never delivered. According to the charge sheet, Omollo committed the offence between January 1, 2015, and March 21, 2017. “As the Permanent Secretary and the accounting officer of the said ministry, used the said office to improperly confer a benefit of 28,766,700 to Ameri Trade Limited by unlawfully authorizing payment to the Head of accounting in the said ministry for goods not delivered,” the prosecution side told the court. Omollo denied the charges. The suspects were represented in court by a bevy of lawyers. They include Cliff Ombeta, Gachie Mwanza, Kihanga Mwangi, Getange Tom, Sam Ogutu and Miguos Ogamba. According to Section 48(1) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, each of the offences carries a fine not exceeding Sh1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, or to both. Additionally, the offences carry a mandatory fine equal to two times the amount of the amount of money lost. This means, Omollo and her co-accused face up to Sh58,533,400 in fines. This includes NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai who also faced the same charges in the first account before Anti Corruption Court Chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti. Ndubai denied the third account of illegally paying Sh28.76million to a private company. According to the charge sheet read in Milimani, Ndubai is said to have paid Ameri Trade Limited for goods not supplied. “In diverse dates between May 18,2015 and April 4, 2018 at the Ministry of Public Service Youth and Gender affairs formerly Ministry of Devolution and Planning offices within Nairobi County, in the Republic of Kenya being the accounting officer for National Youth service under the said Ministry failed to comply with sections 68 (1)a and b of the public financial managements Act 2102 by unlawfully applying public funds entrusted under your care,” the charge sheet read. Also read: List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal In line with the Public Management Act 2012, an accounting officer found guilty of having committed any indiscipline act, the Cabinet Secretary in charge of the ministry under which the officer operates will take various measures including revoking his position as the accounting officer. The CS can refer the matter to the relevant office or body in terms of the statutory and other conditions of appointment or employment applicable to that accounting officer. The prosecution asked the court to determine bail options for the suspects based on the individual charges they were facing. It informed the court that the suspects face ten different charges based on the files submitted to the Director of Public Prosecution s Noordin Haji on Monday by the Director of Criminal Investigations. The prosecution also sought a warrant of arrest for the suspects who failed to turn up in court but and opted to send their lawyers. "The fact that they could send their lawyers to represent them in court means they knew they were supposed to be in court but choose not to come," the prosecutor said. Click here for the latest political news