The Supreme Court has barred KRA from demanding tax or seizing a consignment of 40,000 tonnes of Brazilian sugar imported duty-free. Chief Justice David Maraga restrained the taxman, its agents, servants or anyone acting on their behalf from impounding the consignment pending the hearing and determination of an appeal. “We hereby issue orders in order to preserve the subject matter of the appeal, and safeguard integrity of such orders,” Maraga said. The CJ spoke on behalf of justices Philomena Mwilu, Mohamed Ibrahim, Smoking Wanjala and Isaac Lenaola. The five judge bench will hear the appeal. Two weeks ago, the Court of Appeal allowed KRA to demand Sh2.5 billion from Darasa Investment Ltd. Related: KRA seizes 16 containers of Sh28 million contraband sugar at Kilindini Port Appellate Judges Alnashir Visram, Wanjiru Karanja and Martha Koome set aside a High Court decision which ruled that Darasa was entitled to be cleared duty-free. The firm moved to the Supreme Court, saying the appellate judges erred in their interpretation and application of the Constitution. The dispute before court is whether the sugar was loaded during the exemption period and whether the firm was entitled to tax exemption. Darasa’s consignment was shipped from Dubai to Mombasa aboard MV Iron Lady on July 15, last year, but remained at the Port of Mombasa until August following the dispute. KRA says the firm did not meet the conditions recommended for tax exemption. Visram, Karanja and Koome said there was no evidence that KRA subjected Darasa Investments Ltd to discrimination since there was nothing to show that documents by other importers had inconsistencies. “It is clear that the respondent examined shipping documents by Darasa Investments Ltd, inconsistencies were discovered, they were asked to shed light by respondent, whether the decision by KRA was right or wrong, it was not to be discussed by the court,” the judges said. The court also rejected a contention by Darasa that KRA condemned them without an opportunity to be heard. In its appeal at the Supreme Court, the company says its right to a fair trial was violated. It wants the judges to reinstate the orders of the High Court.  The firm faults the Court of Appeal for finding that there were two sets of bills of lading contrary to evidence. [VIDEO] KRA dumps contraband from Joho godown at sea Click here for the latest political news