Plans to build a road inside Nairobi National Park, along its boundary, has drawn fire. Kenya Railways plans to build an access road linking the Nairobi Inland Container Depot to the Southern Bypass. The proposed road would pass inside the park. Ole-Sereni Hotel Group General Manager Karl Hala said allowing the project to go on spells the doom to the park. He wrote a letter to Nema director general Prof Geoffrey Wahungu, "The particular area of the park that the Kenya Railways plans on utilizing is filled with game, particularly dik-diks, ostriches, antelope and gazelle, among others, is highly popular with individuals and groups visiting to enjoy the abundance and diversity of game and bird life," Hala said. His objection letter is one of many that Nema said it was compiling. It has yet to release the names of those opposed. The objection letter is copied to Tourism CS Najib Balala, the Kenya Tourism Board, East African Wildlife Society, Nature Kenya, Friends of the Nairobi National Park and the Kenya Association of Hotel keepers and Caterers. In March, Nema sent a 30 day- notice for submission of public comments about the proposed project. The deadline was April 28. The 4.153 km access road will run from Nairobi Inland Container Deport, altering the park boundaries on the east and join the Southern Bypass near Wilson airport. A stakeholders’ forum called on behalf of Kenya Railways by Environment Management Consultancy on Friday at KWS however received disapproval. Hala said they are not against public infrastructural development. "We are however passionate about protecting every inch of the Nairobi National park,"he said. Hala said Kenya Railway’s rationale that the project will ease traffic and increasing efficiency is "certainly not in keeping with true sustainable practices." He wondered why the park is being targeted yet the Mombasa corridor has many undeveloped regions. "Construction of such a large project through the park runs counter to the Park’s service vision to save the last great species and places on earth for humanity," he said. 