The war against the armyworm has got a Sh450 million boost. MPs on Thursday approved the cash in the 2017-2018 supplementary budget. The war chest was created from a Sh3.4 billion budget for the department of irrigation. Armyworms have invaded farms in several counties with farmers desperate to rid their farms of pests. Lawmakers agreed the armyworm invasion required a quick and robust response. “The funds will be used to buy chemicals, sprayers, personnel protection equipment and enhance sensitisation and publicity,” a report by the Budget and Appropriations Committee said. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur praised the move, saying it will motivate farmers. Farmers have spent millions on pesticides since the start of April. Read:Panic as armyworms invade farms again The MPs also reduced the Galana-Kulalu irrigation scheme’s Sh7 billion budget by Sh416 million. They reasoned that the end of June is near and they did not see the prospect of the scheme spending the cash in a month. Budget procedure dictates that unspent development cash is surrendered back to the Treasury. They also proposed that Sh1.8 billion be slashed from the Sh2.9 billion allocated to the National Expanded Irrigation Programme and another Sh1 billion from the Sh3.2 billion allocated for the construction of Thwake Dam. The MPs said the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project was a flop an there was need to look into the viability of the scheme. “There is need for a through audit of the Galana-Kulalu irrigation project before any additional funds are allocated,” the MPs said. The committee also recommended the allocation of Sh2.5 billion to the Strategic Food Reserve to pay maize farmers through the National Cereals and Produce Board. In October, the government set aside Sh6.8 billion to buy maize from farmers. The farmers have since delivered maize worth Sh12.4 billion. The ministry requested Sh3.6 billion to clear the deficit. In March, a technical team went to Brazil for a first hand experience of how top control armyworms. Brazil has managed to control armyworms for two decades now. Click here for the latest political news  