The government has said it will win the war on
contraband goods which have been denying them millions of shillings in taxes. Trade CS Adan Mohamed and his Tourism counterpart
Najib Balala on Saturday led the destruction of 400 tons of contraband sugar
worth Sh38 million. Mohamed said importers of illegal goods have been
using the courts to shield themselves from prosecution by delaying action against
them. “Your days are numbered,” he warned importers of
illegal goods. “We will be destroying (counterfeited and
contraband goods) on site here at the port. Anybody who wants to go and
challenge that decision is free to do that. [VIDEO] Government destroys Sh38m contraband sugar at Mombasa port He said the legal processes that the illegal
importers institute usually delays the destruction of their illegal ware and in
the process lead to congestion at the port. “But we are working we are working on how to
fast-track those processes because that is something that we should not allow
to congest the port,” said Mohamed. The sugar was imported from Brazil in February 2016
and declared as ‘machine parts’. Industrialization PS Chris Kiptoo said machine
parts are zero rated and don’t attract any duty. “They only pay VAT. But when you import sugar, you
pay 100 per cent duty. So in this case, government has lost duty of 100 per
cent,” said Kiptoo. This translates to Sh38 million lost, according to
Kiptoo’s explanation. Sugar is a sensitive commodity in Kenya. The PS said the sugar would have been sold cheaply
in Kenya thus hurting sugar companies in the country. Read: Police net contraband alcoholic drinks worth Sh15 million in Embakasi The 8,000 bags of sugar were packed in Uganda-based
Kakira Sugar Limited branded bags to look like the sugar was from the
neighbouring country. “The implication of bringing sugar like this without
paying the necessary duties is to deny revenue to government and also destroy our
existing business who are working in the sugar sector,” said Mohamed. Mohamed and Balala said Kenyans should prepare to
see more destruction of more contraband goods as the government tightens the
noose on illegal imports and counterfeit goods. “If you bring in goods, declare the as what they
are. Pay the necessary taxes and duties to the government so that we create a
level playing field,” said Mohamed. Kenya Ports Authority has improved its security features
and all containers now go through scanners before they leave the port. said
another 160 containers of contraband goods confiscated by the government will
be destroyed on Wednesday. Balala said joint action by the government will
almost always succeed. “We are going to work as one coordinated
government when it is to stand to build our economy,” said Balala. “Our main objective of destruction of illicit
goods is to build a country with a manufacturing economy and create jobs for
our people. “The more we bring goods like this, we destroy our
economy, our manufacturing industry and jobs for our people,” Balala said. Click here for the latest political news