Incompetence was yesterday cited as the biggest contributors to complaints against police. The Independent Police Oversight Authority said nearly half of cases it received were a result of poor management. Outgoing IPOA chairman Macharia Njeru said their analysis showed there was a management problem at the National Police Service. Njeru's team whose term ended yesterday said they received 9,878 cases during their six-year term. Abuse of office accounted for 45.1 per cent with harsaament at 18.1 per cent and issues of police welfare accounting for 7.6 per cent. Assault accounted for 6.5 per cent with deaths linked to police contributing 3.3 per cent. Serious injuries were 3.8 per cent and sexual offences stood at 0.4 per cent. Other misconducts accounted for 13.8 per cent. “This effectively shows that the biggest problem in the National Police Service is management,” Njeru said. He said majority of police commanders lack management and leadership skills. Also read: Police Service and Traffic the most corrupt– EACC survey Njeru said there was no effective coordination, coherent and strategic direction and elaborate accountability mechanism within the service. “If there is better corporate reorganisation, majority of complaints would substantially reduce. The public confidence in the police would increase and with it communities engagement with police in day-to-day policing,” Njeru said. The commissioners referred 5,085 complaints for investigations. “The balance of the cases were referred to the Internal Affairs Unit of the police (748), to authority’s inspections and monitoring directorate for further action (364) and 249 to National Police Service. Another 319 were referred to the National Police Service Commission. “Forty one cases were referred to the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and another 289 to the DCI," Njeru said. Police station bosses received 370 referrals while 312 cases were referred to other agencies like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Ombudsman and National Land Commission. Commissioner Tom Kagwe said they concluded 752 investigations, inspected 885 police premises, monitored 151 police operations and submitted 164 recommendations. “Cumulatively 103 files have been forwarded to the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and 64 cases are in various stages of hearings in court. Three convictions of police officers accused of human rights abuses have been successfully achieved, a first in Kenya,” Kagwe said. Click here for the latest political news