The government did not follow due process in the compulsory acquisition of the controversial Ruaraka land, Lands CS Farida Karoney has told a parliamentary watchdog committee. Karoney said NLC chairman Muhammad Swazuri and former Education CS Fred Matiang'i are responsible for the improper acquisition in which Sh1.5 billion was paid to landowners. The two state agencies paid the sum to Huelands and Afrison Export company to acquire the land that Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary Schools sit on. "We could have done better as a government on the process of purchasing the land," Karoney told the Senate Public Accounts Committee chaired by Moses Kajwang' on Monday. She confirmed that Hueland and Affrison are the real owners of the 96-acre parcel of land. The entities acquired the property in 1981. "The government cannot claim advance possession of private land before purchasing it. This should not be allowed to happen. You either own it or not," Karoney said. This was in response to the government's move to invade the land and construct the two public schools which have been sitting on it for the last 30 years. Related: Two Ruaraka schools say they own city land Lands PS Nicholas Muraguri said there should be legislative actions in the current land policies to fill gaps in the government's acquisition of private land for public use. The committee has asked Karoney to give it documents on the 1981 subdivision plan, transaction records by GSU and Kura and the letter of allotment by Friday. The Sh1.5 billion payment is part of Sh3 billion budgeted for the purchase of a
13.7-acre property, which is occupied by the two schools. The land is at the centre of an ownership dispute between the schools
and Whispering Palms Estate Limited. This is the company that was paid part of
the Sh3.3 billion as compensation in suspicious circumstances. Read: MPs probe Sh3b payment for Ruaraka school land] Also read: CS Matiang’i summoned to explain land payout Click here for the latest political news   