Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has reiterated that he does not hate Kikuyus as all his "side dishes" are from that tribe. “People say Sonko hates Kikuyu, it's untrue. I have nominated over 10 Kikuyu MCAs, my wife is a Kikuyu, all my side dishes and inlaws are Kikuyu. Even the incoming deputy governor is a Kikuyu,” Sonko said during the swearing in of Caroline Karugu as Deputy Governor of Nyeri.  The governor has in the recent past been at pains to redeem himself from utterances he made in March that several Mt Kenya leaders have been meeting at night to scuttle Deputy President William Ruto’s presidential ambitions in 2022. Read:I don't have beef with Kikuyus, says Sonko “We are aware that some politicians from Mount Kenya have been holding night meetings in Nairobi to craft plans on how to support one of their own in 2022,” Sonko said during a service at Presbyterian Church of East Africa in Runda, Nairobi, presided over by Ruto. But to silence the critics, Sonko added that his cabinet has four Kikuyus while the chief of staff and the county secretary is also from the region. Read; Interior PS Kibicho, Sonko clash over Ruto's 2022 bid He added that since its a season of forgiveness its time people moved on and shunned bad politics. On April 16, Sonko said he will not allow senior government officials to fan tribal wars between him and members of the Kikuyu community. A furious Sonko, who took a swipe at the media at a public event outside City Hall, condemned an article published in one of the dailies which appeared to focus on his leadership style. Sonko claimed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho is working with unidentified leaders from the Kikuyu community to try and label him as a hurdle to the well-being of Kikuyus in the city. He further claimed Kibicho is working with a few individuals in the media to tarnish his record and label him as unfit to lead Nairobi. The governor also accused former Starehe MP Maina Kamanda of engaging in secret plans to sabotage his work.  Click here for the latest political news 