The National Youth Service is in the news again and for all the wrong reasons. Allegations of the theft of an obscene sum estimated at Sh9 billion abound and are currently under investigation. Public Service and Youth PS Lillian Mbogo Omollo and director general Richard Ndubai have stepped aside to facilitate investigations. It is a monumental scandal by any standards; it is impunity at its zenith. The opposition has rubbished the stepping aside of the two officials as a cosmetic public relations exercise intended to hoodwink the public. In their view the scandal is not new but a continuation of an old scheme that was hatched in 2013 at the institution to siphon public funds. It is the worst form of impunity. Their allegations are borne out by the fact that some of the companies involved in siphoning funds from NYS were instrumental in the scandal that saw Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru and former NYS director general Nelson Githinji exit office. Consequently NASA principal Musalia Mudavadi has called for the resignation, apprehension and swift prosecution of the culprits. Initial investigation reports indicate that the current scandal was well planned and coordinated. The payment process would originate from the NYS head office whereupon the Ministry of Youth headquarters would instruct Treasury to allow the money to leave government coffers en route to banks, where it would be withdrawn within hours of reaching the specified accounts. In every step there were key people to ensure that there were no actions or decisions that would delay remittances. The whole transaction was clinically efficient and bank managers would be given 24-hour- notice prior to the funds reaching the accounts. They would be instructed to make payment in United States dollars within hours ,as they were less bulky than Kenya shillings. The person(s) making withdrawals were well known to NYS and ministry officials and the deals involved five banks, the most popular being on Kiambu Road. The loot would then be shared between senior officials who sent representatives to collect their share. The evidence points to a grand heist instigated and coordinated by senior government officials in collusion with the Treasury, Youth ministry, Central Bank and commercial banks. The officials in all these organisations must have been given certain assurances, guarantees and or incentives (including immunity from prosecution) for their cooperation. The perpetrators of the last NYS scandal walked away scot-free. It is doubtful that they would have risked their necks for anything less. It is in the public domain that the former NYS scandal claimed the scalps of senior managers at local banks, including the CEO of Family Bank Limited. The Central Bank of Kenya also levied a hefty fine on Family Bank. The fact or truth of the matter is that the massive sums being bandied about in the current NYS scandal could not have been moved without the express knowledge or consent of the Finance Cabinet Secretary, the Youth CS, the governor of Central Bank of Kenya, the director general of NYS, intelligence and the CEOs of the banks involved. Even simple business people get questioned when sums of more than Sh1 million are credited into their accounts! The question then is: why this group of highly educated and experienced career person(s) would risk all that they have worked for over the years? Your guess is as good as mine. Kenya is known to hold certain hallowed traditions. One of these is for every successive government to reward itself with a mega-corruption scandal after presidential and general elections. This is ostensibly designed to offset the high cost of the previous election. If in doubt, check out the timing of Goldenberg, Anglo Leasing, NYS1, Mafia-Gate and the current NYS2 scandals. If the current scandal is part of this tradition, then it lacked basic intelligence and is a copycat of a former scandal. It disrespects the intelligence of all Kenyans. The country is at its lowest ebb.