Makueni county government requires Sh1 billion to recover from the effects of floods which left 17 dead in the county. Governor Kivutha Kibwana said this during a meeting with Makueni leaders to strategise how to handle emergency responses. Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr was part of the consultations held with a view to ending further loss of lives and destruction of properties. The county report on the flooding menace reveals that 26 dams were breached, tens of houses collapsed and several acres of crops destroyed. Read: Declare floods a national disaster, state told as KDF troops lead rescue operations The report further indicates that Sh205 million is required to repair the water pans while Sh282 million is required to repair damaged roads. "We estimate the cost of complete repairs and restoration of people’s livelihoods will be over Sh2 billion," Kibwana said. He added that Sh500 million is required to facilitate immediate repair works in order to restore normalcy. The county government will also be forced to review its 2018-2019 budget in order to focus on addressing the damages and losses caused by the rains. "We will, where possible, suspend some of the development projects earlier included in our 2018-2019 budget so as to enable us facilitate a recovery plan." Kibwana said: "The decision to divert the budget plan is painful but one that is a necessary sacrifice." The governor and the Senator together with MPs, MCAs, and CECs agreed to form a committee to coordinate emergency responses. Read: Makueni success story tops devolution conference talk The committee will among other tasks define priority areas for response, define flood zones along rivers and evacuate where possible. They will also mobilise the general public to contribute to support the emergency responses as well as lobby other partners to support response initiatives. The committee comprises of the Governor, County Secretary, and CECs (Lands, Finance, Roads, Health, Devolution and Water). The Senator, Kerra, Red Cross, County Commissioner, security, Clerk of County Assembly, NDMA, all MPs and MCAs are also incorporated. The governor said the county government has already developed a disaster communication structure. This includes a toll free line manned by Kenya Red Cross, short code (40014) for two-way messaging as well as establishment of a disaster command centre. Mutula asked local leaders to unite in order to jointly tackle the flood crisis adding that mobilisation of relief support from all quarters was necessary. "We must work together on this one so that we mobilise as much resources as possible for us to succeed," Mutula said. The Makueni Senator urged the county assembly to allow passage of an emergency fund in order to make government response to special programs much easier. "These emergency funds we are talking about must be passed now. MCAs have been resistant but I think it is important and must be considered," he said. Click here for the latest political news  