Energy Regulatory Commission has called on the Government to raise tax for the commodity in order to save export markets. ERC Director General Pavel Oimeke said that Kenya consumes about 33 million litres of kerosene per month which is much higher than the expected not more than 5 million litres of kerosene per month. “Currently the country consumes about 33 million litres of kerosene per month which is much higher than the expected not more than 5 million litres of kerosene per month,” he said. He raised concern over the high rate of consumption of kerosene and is now calling on the government to raise tax for the commodity in order to save export markets. He said that the issue can only be addressed if the cartels are dealt with by increasing the tax imposed on kerosene in order to save the export market. “Several unscrupulous cartels in the market mix kerosene with diesel resulting to 27 million liters of kerosene going into vehicles damaging them besides affecting the export market,” said the Director. He spoke in Nakuru on Friday during Consumers Federation of Kenya Dialogue Forum. “Our appeal to the government is to consider increasing the taxes of kerosene to be at the high level with diesel” he said. On the current issue of electricity tokens where consumers have raised concerns, the ERC Director General states that they are currently in the process of reviewing tariffs structure. According to him, by July there will be harmonized tariff that will see no more variables in the prices of the tokens purchased by consumers. “We are in the process of harmonizing to have a tariff that every consumer enjoys without variables in prices” he said. This even as Consumers Federation of Kenya Secretary General Stephen Mutoro called on the Government to work closely with other stakeholders in the sector to ensure that consumers are not affected. COFEK is of opinion that the Senate needs to intercept some sections of the Energy Bill 2016 that sailed through the National Assembly. COFEC also called on ERC to ensure proportional transition on the issue of facing out kerosene to ensure that there is alternative to avert adverse effects on the consumers. “While we agree with the regulator on the issue of kerosene but again it should be faced off proportionally so that we have an alternative to avoid hurting consumers. On the issue of electricity tariffs we call on government to speed up harmonisation,” he said.   