Susan Kaittany was the brains behind luxury salon brand Posh Palace. She was thrust into the limelight after her business partner, Betty Kyallo, called the police on her. The business relationship was over. Now, Susan takes us through the roller coaster that has been her life since the incident.  So, who is Susan Kaittany?  I’m a mother of two, a former model, an entrepreneur, a lawyer, I'm a lover of life, God-fearing, sassy, we could keep going…  What was law school like?  Law school was really awesome. I was an absentee student. I’m not happy to say that. I worked and studied at the same time. I worked in the family business, which was eight years old at the time. I travelled the world and I still made it in time to do my exams and cram and make sure I didn’t get a supplementary. I had a really good roommate who helped me a lot with schoolwork. Part of me wanted to be a lawyer but I was soon to find out that it is not about arguing out cases very well in court, the paperwork, the research, the dressing drab, the formal stuff, the structure…as a creative we function better without structures, as and when needed. As creatives go with our gut. With time I realised law was never going to work for me. But I was happy to have done it because it gave me confidence, a good backbone and oomph to be the woman I have become today.  What was the courtroom experience like?  When I was in third year, I started out at the Kibera law courts. It was very, very tragic, because the stories are heart wrenching, there were kids who were defiled. Nothing quite ever prepared me for that. In the criminal system, you meet real criminals. and such sad stories, you realise how broken the society is. By the time I was done, I decided if I truly was to become a lawyer, I was to become a family lawyer. So I could help the mothers struggling to get child support and the children who have been hurt and defiled. I would do it more to help than to make money. After that I went to the High Court. It was better than the lower courts, which handle a lot. I was under judge Aggrey Muchelule at the time. It was a pretty awesome experience. But, court is real. Those who have been there know this, when they open the doors, it stinks, prison is one horrible place. I understand the system and I’m happy to have done that. And now I do have friends there, some are magistrates and judges.  How do you deal with social media trolls who have posted libellous statements about you and passed judgement on you? Given your law background, how do you intend to deal with that?  I feel like social media is social media. The minute your life is out there, there is little you can do. News lasts 24 hours, everything is short-lived. Kenyans have a short attention span; one second it is about you, the next it is about someone else. So, you are in a crisis for one second, the next second people have forgotten and moved on. The truth is, it can be hurtful at times but you cannot let it sink in. It is not real. These people don’t know you. They feel like they know you but they actually don’t. They have no idea who I actually am. Because of that, I let it slide. And also because you cannot allow other people to define you.  You were a Miss Kenya. How was the journey into pageantry given your study schedules and working in the family business.  Putting myself together the right way helped me win the pageant. Everyone was very well prepared and would walk into the room, greet the judges and wait to be asked questions, But I decided to flip it. I walked in and said, ‘Shalom!’. I could see the judges' expressions change and they were like, ‘Mmmmh, that was different. She is different’. It was excessive, but different. So I have also learnt that ‘being extra’ does not hurt. With time I have also learnt that being extra is actually who Susan is. And I would have no apologies about it. The leaders of Africa and this world are fearless people.  Then comes Posh Palace. What is the backstory?  From my background of modelling, dressing up, getting your make-up done over and over again. This never really leaves you. Even when I was in campus when we would go out, my friends would come and I would flat iron their hair, do their make-up, so yeah, I have done it with my own hands. I felt the need to make people beautiful and happy. So, Posh Palace for me was, I wanted to do a business that everyone else has done, but I wanted to do it differently.  Then you got a business partner, Betty Kyallo. How did that go?  I met Betty Kyallo when she was getting married. It was a celebrity wedding. Thereafter we sponsored the wedding, we sponsored the honeymoon to Dubai and Mauritius and after that, we became friends. And of course having done the influencer marketing with her for our events and travel company, I really wanted them to be happy. I knew that if Kenyans saw them happy then definitely it would reflect very well on our company. And that is exactly what happened. So I thought the same kind of marketing would work for Posh Palace. And that is why I brought her on board. Along the way, it did not work out, unfortunately.  Why?  I think influencer marketing should remain influencer marketing. It is one thing to do influencer marketing and it is another to actually give somebody shares and then bring them in as a partner.  So, in essence there was no conversion into sales?  No.  Did you then plan to tell her to pull her weight and match your investment?  I did. I gave her that opportunity but of course, the thing about influencers is they are not used to having to give capital for anything. Or pay for anything. When you sink Sh40 million into a business, really, it cannot amount to influencer marketing. Then in that case, I can afford to pay an influencer marketer Sh200,000 per month for that service, if you compare it to the value of the business. So, that is why in the long run it just could not work.  When did you realise this?  The cracks started showing when it became more about her than the business. Yet, I was the one doing all the hard work, putting in the capital. Over the long run the cracks would definitely show. When they did show, I said, I have to be practical, we may have had a friendship but it is business. We have to be real; we cannot hide it or pretend. That would have gone only so far.  What are the lessons you have learnt as a businesswoman from this?  Be patient with your business. Believe in it. Influencer marketing is just one form of marketing. In this industry everyone has their hair done, you don’t have to be a celebrity to go to the salon. Everyone has their hair done, from your mother down to the nanny. So there is enough for everybody. We need to employ our marketing strategies across the board. Also, possibly, people will walk into your store, not because of somebody, but because of the services you offer. In the long run you realise that people don’t even know who this influencer is. It is true, because the kind of clientele I attract don’t even know [her]. I did not know who she was when my husband was introducing me to her. I don’t watch TV. And who I am is my target audience. You could be popular in Kenya but you are not relevant to my target audience unless I am selling airtime or milk to the masses. Right?  Did you butt heads after asking for actual capital to back up the share agreement?  I have run other businesses from age 19, so that is 15 years plus in business. For her it was her first venture, so it was harder to comprehend this coming from an influencer marketing background. A businessperson would understand what I’m saying. It boils down to the numbers. Then I said I would caller a valuer to value the business and your influencer contribution, and then we can settle it from that perspective. Of course she did not take it well. I did not expect her to take it well.  What did the valuer say?  We did not get to that point. Before I knew it, there were police here. She might not have taken it well. The thing is, if I have made a decision, I have made a decision and if you are going to punish me for that decision then so be it.  What was the issue with the passport and Betty calling cops on you?  If you are going to walk into Posh Palace with four police officers, just to show guys…I don’t even think the issue was the passport. I don’t even know. I would just say it was a reaction. I did not even get arrested because when we got to the police station, even the OCS was like, ‘I’m very sorry, this is not a police case’. I’ve been very mature about this situation, so much has been said and done, all this drama and theatrics. I will not retaliate or be angry. Do what you have to do to move on.  Is there hope of there ever being a reconciliation?  I doubt it. But I wish everyone’s business flourishes. I did not think it would end up like this. I’m just a businessperson who got into this situation and now I just want to live my life the way it was before all this drama.