A man who separated with his wife 16 years ago has won the legal fight to bury her despite a spirited fight, put up by their children. The children wanted to bury their mother at their maternal home at Naitiri, Bungoma county, but a court ruled that their father has the rights to decide where she will be buried. In a ruling, Milimani senior resident magistrate Agnes Makau gave James Mutele, a former finance manager at KARI the greenlight to bury his estranged wife. The magistrate held that despite not living together, the two were still husband and wife - and he has the rights to determine her burial place. The two stayed together for a period of 8 years during which they bore five children but separated later following a disagreements. Mutele, the children and his in-laws have been fighting for the last two months following her death on March 15. While Mutele accused his in laws of denying rights to bury his wife at Lugari, Kakamega county, or even participate in burial preparations, the children on the other hand told court that their mothers wish was to be buried at Bungoma. It was his contention that despite the separation, he was still legally married to Wabusya - a former lecturer at Kisii Technical University, having paid dowry according to Luhya customary laws. He told the court that during their stay together, he took 'animals', money and other food stuffs as part of the dowry price just as the Luhya culture demands. Although his mother in –law  disputed the claims saying she never 'saw animals at her house from Mutele', the court observed that in Luhya culture, women do not participate in dowry negotiations. The magistrate was of the view that Mutele and his estranged wife Beatrice Wabusya were still legally married since there was no prove of divorce tendered before the court. "After considering the evidence in court, I am of the view that a valid customary Luhya marriage existed between the two," the magistrate ruled. She said evidence before court was clear that some money and animals were received by the parents, and therefore, not convinced by the mother’s testimony. The magistrate said the fact that there was prove that part of the dowry was paid, the two remains husband and wife whether they lived together or  not, since the same was not dissolved customarily. In the absence of the deceased written will, the court gave Mutele the go ahead to continue with the burial plans. Attempts to temporary stop the decision to pursue an appeal failed. Click here for the latest political news