The Skal International President Susanna Saari has said Mombasa is the safest destination for its 79th World Congress. Mombasa will host the first-ever Congress in Kenya from October 17-21. The Congress is world's most important event in the tourism sector. Members will have the opportunity to meet with experts who will offer insights into trends and emerging technologies in the travel and tourism market. Read: [VIDEO] Tourism boon as fifth cruise ship with 890 tourists docks in Mombasa Skal is a professional organization of tourism leaders around the world that promotes global tourism and friendship. It has 14,000 membership from 80 countries and a majority are expected to attend. This will be one of the largest conferences in the region and security will remain a priority. "When we as the global community look at terrorism globally, give up, turn down and say 'okay, we don't do anything', they (terrorist) will win. The only way we will fight this type of phenomenon is not to let it disturb our daily lives," the President said on Wednesday at a press conference held at Governor Hassan Joho's office. "And if we as professionals say we are not coming here because of security issues, then who will come here? So we have to be the one coming first and hold our heads up and say this is a place we want to be and you should you be." Joho said the level of tranquillity in the county "cannot be compared with the rest of the places". He said: "We are secure and safe. The choice of Mombasa is timely and changes the conversation. The narrative of insecurity is not real. In fact, you               are safer in Mombasa than any city in the world." See: [VIDEO] Tourism sector rosy as fourth cruise ship docks Joho said when it comes to global threats, Mombasa is susceptible as any other city. "But today Mombasa enjoys a peaceful environment. That is why it was easy for the Skal to settle for is as a host," Joho said. The head of local organising committee Mehboob Harunani said 75-80 per cent of the countries will be in Mombasa. "Over 500 delegates will take part in the General Assembly," Harunani said. Tourism CS Najib Balala has been on the front line marketing Mombasa for the event. With the Congress, organizers said a positive long-term economic effect will be felt. Click here for the latest political news 