Cotu boss Francis Atwoli now claims his life is in danger. Atwoli on Saturday said he has reliable information that four hit men have been hired to eliminate him within a week. Speaking to journalists at the Tom Mboya Labour College in Kisumu, Atwoli said the four hit men are suspected to be hired by some key politicians. He said efforts to record a statement with the police have not been helpful as he has been ignored. "This press conference is about my life. There is a threat from a clique of few individuals or a group of people either in leadership or politicians who are organising to hire four men to eliminate me within a week. I have already recorded a statement with the police and I thank them for their commitment to protect me," he said. He said the threats are in relation of what he says for the good of the country. "My statements have not gone with some politicians whom I have been informed met somewhere and agreed to hire the hit men to eliminate me," Atwoli added. He said, "Eliminating me is a waste of time because I have had my good life, own life has been everywhere in the world, I have had anything a human being can have, I want to thank God for that but am not afraid of anything". Atwoli has recently been in the news accusing government of a plot to remove him alongside Federation of Kenya Employers Executive Director Jacqueline Mugo from the NHIF and NSSF boards. While linking his ouster to 'a highly ranked jubilee politician'- whom he did not name the plot to eject them is to pave way for workers money to be looted. He said COTU will not allow the plot and would do anything to crush it. Read:Atwoli threat to pull workers out of NSSF The government has hatched a plot to kick out workers’ and employers’ representatives from the board of the two institutions to be executed through proposed amendments to the NSFF Act 2013. The proposed changes are contained in the Statute Law (Miscellaneous) Amendment Bill 2018 sponsored by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. The Bill seeks to give powers to the Cabinet Secretary for Labour to appoint five people outside government to the board of trustees. According to the proposed law, the five would be appointed courtesy of their knowledge and experience in matters relating to administration of pension funds, actuarial science, insurance, auditing, accounting or law. Read:State seeks to kick out Atwoli and Mugo from NSSF board Also Read:You can't kick me out of NSSF board, Atwoli tells CS nominee Yattani 