A
report accusing Base Titanium mining company of disregard of rights and skewed benefits sharing with mine operations host communities in
Kwale, has been dismissed by the company as "mostly incorrect". The report was based on a survey carried out by Haki Jamii, an NGO. The
survey was carried out in 39 households in Nguluku and Bwiti villages of Kwale county. In
the report, Haki Jamii accused Base Titanium of failing to effectively
mitigate the adverse environmental, social and economic consequences of mining,
but the company has termed this “a broad sweeping accusation not backed up by
facts”. Joe Schwarz, the
company’s general manager for external affairs and development, said the report contains non-factual statements. Schwarz said
the suggestion that Base is polluting rivers in the area is not true, as
analysis carried out by government institutions testify to the contrary. “We
draw water from our dam, where the local rivers drain. So how can we pollute the
same water we are using?” The
company said the EIA license issued by Nema is revalidated annually
through an independent environmental audit and routine monitoring programmes. “Base’s commitment to sound environment management and good
practices was recognised by winning the Pwani Mazingira Award in the production
category for implementing the best environmental practice, conservation and
environmental management”. He
said the Haki Jamii report erroneously indicated that the company is
depriving people and livestock of water. “We release water downstream from our
dam and have further constructed 13 boreholes for the communities surrounding
the mine,” he said. NO DISEASE OUTBREAK Schwarz
also dismissed Haki Jamii’s claim that communities around the mine are being
afflicted by various pollution-related diseases, saying if that was the case, even those who work for Base would also be sickly. “There is absolutely no
evidence to that effect,” he said. On the accusation that the company is degrading the
environment, the manager said the company has spent a lot of money on the
conservation of the environment. “We have restored wetlands and planted forest
corridors.” On
the accusation that the mining host communities are raising concerns in
relation to the loss of land and displacement, the company said contrary to
this, “many locals have continued looking to get on the resettlement
bandwagon”, because they see it as financially advantageous. An example is the
squatters in Nguluku village, who now want Base to compensate and relocate them.
However, the land this community is occupying is leased by the government to the
Kwale International Sugar Company (KISCOL). These
issues were raised when Schwarz met a delegation of four NGOs, including Ford
Foundation, Kenya Land Alliance (KLA), the Institute for Law and Environmental
Governance (ILEG) and Haki Jamii. The latter three are funded by the Ford
Foundation to create awareness and advocate for the rights of the mining
communities. During
the meeting, a representative of the Ford Foundation queried the enhanced role
played by the company on infrastructural development. Margaret Lugadia
expressed concern that the company is taking over the role of the county
government in the provision of infrastructural development, which she said was
not sustainable, given the short lifespan of the mining. In
response, Schwarz said, “Our infrastructural investments are aligned to the
Kwale Integrated Development Programme, so there is no duplication, and the same
goes for the scholarship programme. We just work together (with the county
government) to ensure its resources are stretched further.”