Millers are yet to be paid Sh2.6 billion by the government for the maize subsidy programme that ended in December.In February last year, the government started a Sh9 billion maize subsidy programme to cushion Kenyans against the high cost of maize flour after prices shot to a record Sh150 for a 2kg packet.The programme ended in December after farmers in the main breadbasket areas started harvesting and selling maize.On Monday, Crops Development Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe announced that the government paid Sh1 billion last Friday to clear part of the Sh3.6 billion debt. He said the government will look for a plan to clear the remaining balance of Sh2.6 billion.  The money was paid after millers complained of delays, despite government promises to clear the debt. Read: CEO Newton Terer resigns from NCPB amid probe on illegal maize importsNick Hutchinson, the Cereal Millers Association chairman, said they are optimistic the government will honour its promise and pay the balance by the end of the financial year.He said Kenya has enough maize, which has led to the price of a 2kg packet of maize flour to reduce to between Sh90 and Sh100.Lesiyampe said the government has 3.8 million 90kg bags of maize in the Strategic Food Reserve, which is more than it has ever received in the last five years. But even as the country enjoys a surplus of maize, following a good harvest last year, the government is yet to pay farmers all their dues.Lesiyampe said since October last year, the government has bought close to four million bags worth Sh11.4 billion from farmers. Of this, Sh7.8 billion has been paid but the government still owes small-scale farmers who delivered maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board depots Sh2.6 billion. “We have also released Sh1 billion to pay farmers this week to help them repay their Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) loan payments, which they had borrowed to buy fertiliser and pay school fees,” he said.“We will be looking for the remaining Sh1 billion to clear the balance. We are, however, not buying any more maize from farmers as we have reached capacity in our Strategic Food Reserve.” Last week maize growers in Rift Valley asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to order their money released. The farmers said they  had been promised payment but it was taking too long. Read also: PS Lesiyampe suspends eight NCPB bosses Click here for the latest political news