Kenya continues to make significant progress towards improving her people’s health. Our efforts have resulted in a significant reduction of maternal and child mortality rates. Kenya is however now faced with the double burden of communicable and non-communicable diseases. But the government is committed to achieving health for all. Consequently, Universal Health Coverage is now one of the Big Four agenda for socioeconomic transformation. We will re-look at measures aimed at strengthening health systems and shift focus from the costly, and often inaccessible, curative services to preventive services. Prevention is better than cure. Primary Health Care is where people engage with the health system for the first time, yet it has not been fully developed. Kenya is constrained by shortages of health workers coupled with lack of skills and competencies towards preventive health. Lack of adequate and sustained funding to support PHC services has been a challenge. Long-term solutions are required in order to provide the best care. The NHIF is already working on a PHC benefit package. It is our hope that development partners in the health sector will direct their investments to PHC interventions for adequate and sustained funding. To realise UHC, we shall address issues of staff shortages, their skills and competencies to manage PHC. We shall ensure availability of essential medicines and improve the referral system, provide equipment and improve infrastructure. We shall engage in cross-sectoral collaborations to improve access to safe water and address sanitation and other social determinants of health. Already, through the Medical Equipment Leasing programme, we are providing diagnostic and treatment equipment in 98 hospitals. To bridge the HRH gap and aid in skills transfer and services, the government in the short-term will bring in 100 medical specialists through the recently signed Kenya-Cuba cooperative agreement. Of these, 53 are family physicians, who are expert general practitioners in primary care and work at county hospitals. Their orientation is towards preventive and promotive health services. They will be deployed in all the 47 counties. The aim of this collaboration is knowledge and skills transfer while capacity building our health workers. As part of the agreement, 50 of our medical doctors will be trained in Cuba as family physicians. On return, they will be at the forefront in strengthening PHC by working very closely with the communities. In addition, Cuba is offering technical support to Kenya Medical Training College for the training of clinical officers, nurses and community health workers in the field of family medicine. As Kenya roles out UHC, Primary Health Care is now more crucial than ever before to tackle the double burden of disease and lay a foundation for sustainable health programmes. PHC is not just about tackling disease and caring for sick people. It focuses on promoting health, wellness, preventing disease and the underlying social determinants of ill-health. Countries with well-functioning PHC programmes
like Cuba, Thailand and Brazil have better health outcomes at low cost. With the current political commitment through the
inclusion of UHC in the Big Four, and equitable
distribution of resources
through the devolution of health services, the country now has what it takes to show that PHC
is the best path towards achieving the goal of Health for All. Developed and developing countries such as Cuba have
included a family physician in their primary health care model. Kenya needs
family medicine and commits to training her health workers in this field through
a model appropriate to our context. Kenyans have great
optimism and high expectations as we roll out UHC. They expect to see better
access to high quality health services and improved health outcomes. The best
path to this is in investing and focusing on PHC as the foundation stone of our
UHC initiative. A commitment to PHC in practical terms, is that we must now
shift our emphasis towards preventive and promotive health services. We shall, however, not
lose focus of the need to continue strengthening curative services, which
will benefit from a strong PHC programme. In ethical terms, no one,
regardless of their socioeconomic status, should die from preventable diseases. No one should face financial ruin when they fall sick. Our aim is to improve people’s experience with
the healthcare system, improve the health of the general population and equity,
reduce cost of care and restore joy and satisfaction in the practice of primary
care.