Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and ANC's Musalia Mudavadi are only being cry-babies following their complaint of being locked out of the handshake, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa has said. He asked the two leaders to work towards reaping from the good tidings that have come with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga's unity pact instead of whining about being excluded. More on this: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila More on this: Nasa affiliates threaten to divorce Raila's party for 'marrying' Jubilee "When a father has gone out to look for food, why must the children complain that they are not informed about the missing...it is for them to wait for food at home," Wamalwa said. He said the handshake between the President and the ODM leader has already started proving to be beneficial as the country has started healing from the differences created by the 2017 election. Wamalwa, speaking in Karachuonyo on Saturday, said he is happy Mudavadi has started realising the essence of the meeting between two leaders and told Wetang'ula to follow suit. "We must ensure that we devolve that handshake. When I go to western, I will talk to my brother Wetang'ula to see the meeting as a sign beyond 2022 politics but as a sign of a better future for our country," he said. "When Jaramogi Oginga Odinga were working together with the late Michael Wamalwa, who was complaining? And when we brought Ford Kenya to Nyanza region, were we not united?" the CS asked. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Governor Cyprian Awiti, Karachuonyo MP Adipo Okwome and Kanini Kega of Kieni all promised to support the government to ensure it achieves its agenda. Wanga said the handshake was beyond the 2022 politics but is to bring unity and development to all Kenyans and that is why they are embracing one another. "The time for politics ended long time ago and at the moment, we are focused on developing our country. The handshake between our two leaders is way far beyond 2022 politics," Wanga said. Kega said development cannot be achieved without peace adding that as Jubilee politicians, they are proud of the meeting which ended the animosity which followed after the disputed elections. "Kenyatta and Raila thought it wise to hold the meeting just between two of them. Could it be that some of us were involved, maybe what we are currently experiencing could not have been achieved," Kega said. "I am happy that today I can just walk freely without even a bodyguard. I can interact with leaders from NASA whom we were not seeing eye to eye in the past, We must devolve the handshake," he added. Awiti and Okuome promised to support the unity the leaders have brought to the country saying it has already started bearing fruits. The leaders presided over the distribution of relief food to over 2,000 people displaced by floods from Osodo village within Karachuonyo, Homa Bay county. Click here for the latest political news