Nairobi parents with children aged five years and below have been urged to get them vaccinated against polio next week. The Health ministry aims to immunise at least 817,000 children. The vaccination drive is a response to a live polio virus found in sewage in Eastleigh one month ago. Director of Medical Services Dr Jackson Kioko yesterday said the immunisation will run from Wednesday to Sunday next week. The children will again be vaccinated in June and July to completely eliminate the threat. “Following isolation of circulating Vaccine-Derived Polio Virus Type 2 ...from Eastleigh, the ministry and partners will conduct three high-quality supplemental immunisation activities targetting high-risk counties,” he said. Kioko said there is no polio outbreak and any threat will be eliminated once all children are vaccinated. He addressed a meeting of technical advisers of the World Health Organization. “In June and July we will cover 2.4 million children under five years in Nairobi and other 11 high-risk counties,” Kioko said. He said isolation of polio viruses from environmental samples shows the surveillance system is sensitive and functional. However, Kioko said, it’s necessary to strengthen surveillance of acute flaccid paralysis indicators as well as routine immunisation. “To eradicate polio, we need to stop all strains of the virus, including vaccine-derived polio viruses,” Dr Kioko said. The vaccine-derived virus was found in sewage samples in Eastleigh on March 21 this year during routine surveillance. It comes from the oral polio vaccine given mostly to children, which contains a live, but weakened virus. If the children were not adequately immunised, the weakened vaccine virus mutates in their intestines and is excreted as a wild or naturally occurring virus. The US Centres for Disease Control has linked the strain to Somalia, which means it may have been brought into Kenya. WHO said it was too early to reach a conclusion. “Investigations are currently ongoing to determine the source and origin of this virus, where it initially emerged and where it moved to,” it said in a statement “However, it is clear that two countries in the Horn of Africa are currently affected and the overriding priority is to stop this virus in the known affected areas and prevent it from spreading further.” Unicef is supporting Kenya’s mop-up campaigns. “I appeal to leaders, communities and families to avail children aged below five years for vaccination during the drive,” Patrizia Di Giovanni, deputy representative, Unicef Kenya, said. Polio can cause paralysis that leads to muscles withering away and children being permanently disabled. In some cases paralytic polio kills.