Several leaders have differed over early campaigns for 2022 general elections. This came out on Sunday during a fundraising ceremony for construction of ACK church Kitale diocese that took place at ASK show ground in Trans Nzoia. Several leaders across the country attended the ceremony that had Deputy President William Ruto as the chief guest. There was exchange of words in a show of might after Trans Nzoia senator Michael Mbito slammed Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa for crisscrossing the county and declaring that he is the incoming Governor in 2022. “I want to tell my brother Chris that 2022 is very far he should instead focus on service delivery to the people of Kiminini who elected him.” He went ahead to ask the MP to tell the people how the state of hospitals is in his constituency. “I am also going to declare my interest for governorship for 2022 but not at this time, this is a time to work and serve the people who elected us,” he said. Mbito asked the Bishop of ACK Kitale diocese John Kewasis to pray for the county as it is divided. Wamalwa who was the master of ceremony took over the microphone and hit back at the senator. “I want to remind our senator that health is one of the ministries that was devolved and so I don’t know what he is trying to tell us,” he said. He told him that he should go to people and introduce himself as he is not known. “As I do my campaigns people are asking me that they don’t know their senator. I advice my brother to first go and introduce himself to people on ground if he wants to compete with me in 2022,” he said. Several leaders across the country have pledged to support Ruto's 2022 presidential bid. Read: Why William Ruto must become President before 2022 election Speaking at the same function, Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said that the political journey for 2022 has started and that this time the child of a peasant must lead this country. “I want to differ with those who are saying we should stop 2022 politics - safari ya Kesho hupangwa mapema [Tomorrow's journey is planned in advance] and this time we are going to overwhelmingly vote for the child of a poor woman,” he said. He pointed out that if Ruto is voted in it will be a great inspiration to any child who comes from a poor family. Silvanus Osaro, MP South Mugirango and Kanini Kega (Kieni) also said that their respective communities will vote for Ruto. Cheranganyi MP and former President Uhuru Kenyatta’s political adviser Joshua Kutunny said that with the experience he has had in politics, he is sure Ruto will be the president in 2022. “In 2017 I said Uhuru will be the president and it happened so watch this out,” he said. Kuttuny said that the deputy president does not need to campaign as his work speaks for him. “When Ruto was at the ministry of Agriculture we saw his work and he really fought for farmers," he said. Also present were Trans Nzoia woman rep Janet Nangabo, Endebes MP Robert Pukose, Caleb Kositale (Soi) Didmas Barasa (Kiminini) among others. Ruto said that it is now time to unite all Kenyans and to address issues affecting them. “The national narrative should be on empowerment of the millions of unemployed youths, the debate should be diverted to the people,” he said. Ruto also discouraged the debate on referendum and power sharing urging that Kenya is not for leaders alone. Click here for the latest political news