Kenyans' monthly expenditure has been on a decline since May last year, a new consumer survey shows. The research by mSurvey, a global consumer research firm that studies consumers daily spending habits, indicates that Kenyans on average spent less and less every month from a high monthly spend of Sh22,458 in May last year, with the lowest average spend recorded in March at Sh11,629. Indeed consumers were forced to tighten their belts last year as the long political season stretched their finances and inflation kept on the upward climb. With the exception of December when spending rose to Sh19,033, the general spending habits continued on a decline, but picked up in April at Sh13,319. Last year the country’s overall inflation was 7.99 per cent, the highest since 2012 when it hit 9.38 per cent. In contrast, there was a significant change in their spending habits during the recent Easter holidays with a higher expenditure going towards food, personal care, entertainment and transport. This saw a trade-off with medical expenses, airtime and bills that took a dip during the Easter period. Consumers spent 2.2 per cent more on foodstuff, owing to the school holidays. This was reflected in entertainment, which took 2.2 per cent more. Transport costs during April also rose 2.2 per cent and 1.6 per cent more was spent on personal care. There was a 3.8 per cent decrease in allocation for airtime, same as for medical expenses while money to pay bills went down by 2.8 per cent. The survey firm said that spending is expected to get back to normal as national inflation continues to drop. In April, inflation dropped to 3.73 per cent, down from 4.18 in March. The cost of foodstuff kept rising despite the dipping inflation, with the price of tomatoes soaring to retail a single piece at Sh15, as opposed to five shillings two months ago. The research captures the average amount of cash used in travel, food, airtime, entertainment and rent, noting that if a consumer’s income does not increase at the rate of the cost of their daily bread, the consumer will have to forego what they consider non-essential expenses.