More than 600 Nairobi River pollution points have been identified and the gravity of its clean-up noted by the Intergovernmental Committee. These and other efforts are being taken to revamp the city following a directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 13. Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musiambo said the committee is not gropping in the dark as polluters have been mapped out. Musiambo noted that due to the enormity of the work to be done, the exercise may take long. He promised, however, that the capital will be restored to its state as the city in the sun. "We will get it right this time round as we must bring Nairobi back to its glory. There are no two ways about it," he said on Thursday. He gave highlights of achievements so far at the KICC in Nairobi. The official was with Environment PS Charles Sunkuli, County Secretary Peter Kariuki and Environment CEC Larry Wambua. Musiambo said the Kenya Alliance of Residents, which has at least 300 associations, was roped in and will adopt some of the sections that have been cleaned to ensure sustainability. He warned those who have polluted the river, saying no one will be spared. "Culprits will be charged in line with laws such as those on public health and even the penal code," he said, adding that all Acts will be explored while charging those culpable. The project includes manual removal of waste and encroachments in riparian areas, meeting public health standards and landscape management. Fifteen slaughter houses that discharged raw waste into the river have been closed. Read: Nema closes Kiamaiko slaughterhouses, cites pollution of Nairobi River Sunkuli noted the serious challenge of historical illegal settlements near riparian areas. "Regulations by the National Environment Management Authority have been violated. We are dealing with issues around ownership and abuse," he said, adding that Nema's human resource and technical capacity will be expanded. Regarding solid waste, the Principal Secretary said 100 young people were employed to physically remove it from Globe Cinema up stream. The PS further said the committee will work with surrounding counties such as Kajiado and Kiambu as some of the Nairobi River tributaries traverse them. Kariuki said 6,000 automobile repair shops in the Grogan area will be rehabilitated in a sustainable way to keep them from polluting the river. He said a programme that is being rolled out in informal settlements will see sanitation improve and reduce pollution. Kariuki told those who have encroached on riparian areas that the regeneration team is organised and will intervene differently this time round. He said rainwater and sewer lines have also been mapped out. Noting that waste management remains a serious challenge, he said the country's monitoring, compliance and enforcement will be expanded by the employment of more officers. In 2009, former environment Minister John Michuki revived the river that had been ‘killed’ by the dumping of human and industrial waste. Years after Michuki died, the river is once again foul and garbage is strewn in the city centre. After the briefing, the committee took its exercise to Waithaka market. It is targetting the Nairobi River catchment area, including Ngong River and Kirichwa Kubwa as well as Kirichwa Ndogo tributaries. More on this: Talks on restoring Nairobi River kick off, polluters to be charged Click here for the latest political news