The state will start registering all farmers in Kenya starting from today. Agriculture CS Mwango Kiunjuri and his ICT counterpart Joe Mucheru on Saturday met the governors from 15 counties at Enashipai Spa in Naivasha to launch the drive. The plan to list farmers was mooted two years ago. There was a previous attempt in 2009 which did not take off. Kiunjuri said the government lacks data on farmers. He said registration is part of state modernisation plan for farming. It will ease access to farm inputs, he said. “We want to automate the agriculture
sector so that farmers can get inputs at the touch
of a button,” he said. Kiunjuri said torrential rains countrywide have flooded farms and damaged crops. The is a big blow to food security because some farmers list their harvest, he said. Read: Registration of farmers to cut out brokers ripping off NCPB “Plans are underway to harvest water
which will come in handy during the dry season,” he said. Kiunjuri said a consultative meeting has been called to chart the way forward on the
destructive caused the the Fall armyworm. “We have not found a solution for the pest which was first reported in Brazil and America. Armyworms have destroyed crops worth millions of shillings,” he said. On his part, Mucheru expressed said he is confident the registration would be completed in 120 days. He urged farmers to co-operate. The CS told farmers not to fear as their data would be stored safely. After the registration drive, Mucheru said farmers will be educated on the best farming methods. “The registration is important for farmers. Food security is part of the government's Big Four agenda,” he said. Chair of
Council of Governors Joseph Nanok said the county chiefs fully support the drive. This will improve farming and boost food production, he said. However, he urged the national government to subsidise agricultural inputs and equipment by 50 per cent. “We will work with the national government on this noble drive. We
applaud President Uhuru Kenyatta for picking agriculture and security as part of his Big Four
agenda,” he said. Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria said that his government has already registered 300,000 farmers. They were given seeds, fertiliser and
pesticides, he said. “Although heavy rain has cause death and destruction, in Murang'a
we are expecting a bumper maize harvest,” he said. Click here for the latest political news