Nairobi governor Mike Sonko says he will not be distracted by naysayers and cartels who are determined to see him fail. He said he will not give room to those who want to derail his vision but will focus on service delivery. "I would like to first of all like to apologise because development has delayed. But I could not advertise tenders for development projects before the County Assembly passed the supplementary budget. But now they have passed it. We are going to give you roads, water and hospitals," Sonko said. Read: Be patient with me, I will fix Nairobi - Sonko He said he is in good working relations with all Nairobi MCAs despite claims that they have strained relations. Sonko spoke during a Sunday church service at A.I.P.C.A in Njiru Ward. He said he and the MCAs are united and working as team. The Governor was accompanied by over 100 MCAs among them majority leader Abdi Guyo and Chief Whip Chege Mwaura. Guyo said Sonko is a leader who was overwhelmingly voted for by the Nairobians, therefore deserves respect. He said the Nairobi Governor should be given time to deliver. "We will never ever impeach Sonko, take it to the bank. Cartels have no role in Sonko’s leadership," Guyo said. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and deal with the cartels frustrating Sonko. “Let the governor be respected and be given enough security. President Uhuru should move in and ensure that this issue is solved," he said. Read: Sonko left with two bodyguards after 13 withdrawn Sonko, however, said he no longer needs his security to be restored. "When Raila Odinga's security was withdrawn, life went on, when [Mombasa Governor Hassan] Joho's security was withdrawn life went on, when the security of the other Nasa principals was withdrawn life went on. Even me, life will go on," he said. He said the circus revolving around the nomination of deportee lawyer Miguna Miguna should not be a reason for friction between him and the County Assembly. Sonko dismissed those banking on the alleged bad blood between him and the County Assembly to push for his impeachment to forget it since it will never happen. "As a parliament, I respect them. They are the ones with the powers to tell me to bring another name, but that will not make us fight. We are playing modern politics in Nairobi," he said. Sonko nominated lawyer Miguna Miguna as his deputy and is waiting for vetting and approval from the County Assembly. "I have chosen Miguna as my deputy and it is the assembly which will decide," he said. On the corruption that has plagued the Country, the governor challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to continue pressing hard. He said those behind maize scandal and National Youth Service should face the full force of the law. “President Uhuru is dealing with corruption so firmly.The same should also be applied in all sectors including the saga in Kenya's Uganda Embassy where huge amount of money was swindled,” he said. Read: Nairobi MCAs split over Miguna choice for DG job Click here for the latest political news