The IEBC has found
itself in the eye of another storm after it emerged that staff within
its ICT department illegally sold private voter data to politicians
in the 2017 General Election. Strathmore
University's Centre for Intellectual Property and Information
Technology has revealed in a report that some IEBC employees shared private voter data with politicians, who then used it
to send campaign messages to several citizens. Two individuals that
vied for Member of County Assembly positions yesterday confirmed to
the Star that voter data was up for sale in the run up to the
elections. “As long as you
had money you could buy anything. A voter's detail with their phone
number, ID number, photo, age and polling station was being sold at
Sh3,” one of the aspirants said in an interview. Read: Akombe exposes the rot inside IEBC The staff minted millions by trading in
private data they were supposed to protect. Some of the campaign
messages CIPIT collected were from aspirants for MCA, senator,
women representative and MP positions. Nairobi for instance
has 2,250,853 registered voters. If an IEBC employee sold data for
just a quarter of those voters to a senator or women representative
aspirant, he or she would have earned Sh1.6 million from each buyer. With hundreds of
contestants in the polls, the crooks could have earned
millions from the election. The Centre for
Intellectual Property and Information Technology (CIPIT) on Monday
released a report citing privacy violations with the sharing of voter
data. The research centre
holds that Kenya's lack of stringent data protection laws have
hindered protection of sensitive data, such as personal details of
voters. That, the report
indicates, provided a loophole for the private data business during
the campaign period. A copy of the voter
register can be availed to any citizen at the IEBC offices upon
request and with justification for the document, but the polls body
is required to redact private information such as phone numbers, ID
numbers and polling stations. CIPIT adds that
interviews with content service providers (firms that send bulk
messages at a cost) revealed that politicians would obtain voter data
from the IEBC then pay them to direct targeted campaign messages to
potential voters. “Only the IEBC has
voter registration data, which was
included in the messages that we
collected in the survey. It is possible that political aspirants were
able to obtain this data from the rogue officials at the
Commission. “Moreover, the CSP
suggests that voters’ information,
including their personal data,
can be obtained from the IEBC,” the report further reads. [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader But the IEBC insists
that its systems are secure, and that it did not receive any
complaints in regard to sharing of private voter details. The polls body says
it can only act once a complaint has been made. “The voter
register is a public document. What we do not avail is the personally
identifiable information (PII) such as date of birth or ID numbers
and phone numbers. We remove such personal details or truncate them
when shared with political parties and the public.” “Our data is
sufficiently secured. We have not received complaints that the data
in our custody has been breached or compromised to warrant
investigation and retribution,” IEBC communications manager Andrew
Limo told the Star. Efforts to reach
IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati hit a dead end as he did not pick our
calls or respond to text messages. CIPIT says that of
the 228 people it interviewed, only four per cent had shared their
phone numbers with politicians or their associates. Only three per cent of the people interviewed reported
unsolicited campaign text messages to relevant authorities such as
the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA). CA director Francis
did not respond to our calls or texts. But a CA insider who is not
authorised to speak to the press without the director's permission
told the Star that the regulator did not receive any complaints on
privacy violations. CIPIT adds that its
research found that the CA lacks a centralised complaints system and
an anonymous reporting avenue. “A significant
number of surveyed respondents said that they were opposed to
receiving targeted political text messages but they do not seem
to
have adequate channels to report infringements of their privacy. Click here for the latest political news 