Mombasa governor Hassan Joho's bid to ban the registration of tuk-tuk has suffered a major setback after a High court suspended the ban. Judge Dora Chepkwony ordered that the registration of the three-wheeler vehicles proceed until the determination of the petition. After the ban by the governor through a letter to the transport department, tuk-tuk owners through the commission for human rights and justice moved to court seeking to stop the ban from being affected. In their application under the certificate of urgency, they said they were set to suffer losses if the ban is effected without further interrogation. They had sued the clerk and the Mombasa county government of Mombasa. Read:[VIDEO] Lift ban on new tuk-tuks in Mombasa, owners tell Joho The business people were ordered to serve the application to the other parties and the matter was scheduled to be heard on Thursday. However, tuk-tuk owners through their lawyer Maurice Mkan said they had served the respondents but they failed to respond to the application. The respondents were also not represented at the court prompting judge Chepkwony to temporarily lift the ban. Chepkwony further ordered both parties to file and serve the main petition within 21 days. Joho's ban was caused by the ever-increasing number of tuk-tuk within Mombasa. Currently,8,000 tuk-tuks have been registered. Read:Taxify launches Tuk Tuk app for Mombasa riders In his letter to the transport department, Joho said the tuk-tuks have turned to nuisance thus the call for the banning. But the owners said the ban is against their rights. They said the wheelers have proved to be a source of income to thousands of youths employed to operate them. They further said the youths are set to indulge themselves in criminal activities if the ban is effected. They further claimed the ban was imposed without their consultation. The owners also noted they were set to suffer loses for thousands of tuk-tuks they had bought and awaited registration.  Click here for the latest political news Mombasa governor Hassan Joho's bid to ban the registration of tuktuk has suffered a major setback after a Highcourt suspended the ban. Judge Dora Chepkwony ordered that the registration of the three wheeler vehicles proceed until determination of the petition. After the ban by the governor through a letter to the transport department,tuktuk owners through the commission for human rights and justice moved to court seeking to stop the ban from being effected. In their application under the certificate of urgency they said they were set to suffer losses if the ban is effected without further interrogation. Thry had sued the clerk and the Mombasa county government of Mombasa. Read:[VIDEO] Lift ban on new tuk-tuks in Mombasa, owners tell Joho The business people were ordered to serve the application to the other parties and the matter was scheduled to be heard on Thursday. However tuktuk owners through their lawyer Maurice Mkan said they had served the respondents but they failed to respond to the application. The respondents were also not represented at the court prompting judge Chepkwony to temporarily lift the ban. Chepkwony further ordered both parties to file and serve the main petition within 21 days. Joho's ban was caused by the ever increasing number of tuktuk within Mombasa. Currently,8,000 tuktuks have been registered. Read:Taxify launches Tuk Tuk app for Mombasa riders In his letter to the transport department,Joho said the tuktuks have turned to nuisance thus the call for the banning. But the owners said the ban is against their rights. They said the wheelers have proved to be source of income to thousands of youths employed to operate them. They further said the youths are set to indulge themselves in crime activities if the ban is effected. They further claimed the ban was imposed without their consultation. The owners also noted they were set to suffer loses for thousands of tuktuks they had bought and awaited registration. 