Two Rift Valley politicians have dared NASA leader Raila Odinga to vie for President in 2022 against DP William Ruto. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi and Senator Samson Cherargei claimed Raila “joined the government to sabotage Ruto”. They accused Raila of seeking power through the back door. Sudi said Nyanza MPs should stop commenting on Rift Valley politics because “the region supports Ruto”. He criticised Kisumu Central MP Fred Outa over his remarks the Kalenjin community should decide on who between Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi should vie for the presidency. “We want to tell leaders from Nyanza like Outa that they should keep off Rift Valley politics. We have been defeating their father Raila Odinga for decades and he should be prepared to face Ruto and be defeated again,” Sudi said. NO MATCH FOR RUTO The MPs spoke in Mosop constituency, Nandi. MP Julius Melly of Tinderet and Cornelius Serem of Chesumei were present. Sudi said Raila should stop pushing for a referendum to gain power. “As the people of Rift Valley, we have said we don’t want a referendum and we will not allow it. We know our candidate for 2022 will be DP Ruto and he is ready to face off with Odinga and Kenyans can decide,” he said. Cherargei said although politicians welcome Raila’s handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta, they will not allow the NASA leader to interfere with Jubilee and sabotage Ruto. Serem and Melly said Gideon is no match for Ruto and the Kalenjin community would ignore him. “He should stop imagining that he is equal to his father retired President Moi. Even if he puts on the elder Moi’s shoes, he would remain Gideon Moi with no impact on Rift Valley politics,” Serem said. A group of Kalenjin elders and youths met in Eldoret last week and endorsed Gideon to vie for President. The elders said he has the right to vie for the top seat. “Those who are doubting should be aware we have given Gideon Moi our blessings,” elder Yusuf Keittany said. Click here for the latest political news