President Uhuru Kenyatta surprised Kenyans with a public apology during the State of the Nation address last week. Apologies by leaders in Africa are as rare as tortoise teeth. Leadership here is on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis — and may the devil take the hindmost. On a personal level it was perhaps an acknowledgement certain things had gone wrong during the campaign and election period, which were regrettable and for which he sought forgiveness. Not to be left out, Deputy President William Ruto issued a similar apology also couched in general terms and avoiding specifics. Whilst some purists feel it falls short of a genuine or sincere apology, many feel it is a courageous starting point that could lead to a change in the way we conduct our politics. The puritans feel that a sincere apology consists of three distinct parts. The first is a concession or confession that they have erred and done wrong or committed an offence. The second is that they sincerely regret their action(s). The third is that they seek forgiveness and undertake never to repeat the action(s) ever again. Viewed from this perspective, the apologies of the President and DP certainly fell short. The Chinese however say “a journey of a thousand miles begins with the first step,” and perhaps this is the context in which we should view the apology. The older citizens amongst us cannot imagine former Presidents Jomo Kenyatta or Daniel arap Moi issuing an apology. The President and DP would be well advised to take a step further by accompanying it with acts and gestures of reparation and reconciliation to clear any doubts that this is just a public relations exercise. In the wise words of Father Gabriel Dolan, “There can be no reconciliation without truth, disclosure, lustration, reparations and justice.” Many lives were lost during the campaign and election period and although money cannot adequately compensate life, their families ought to be compensated. Now that there appears to be a cessation of hostilities between the ruling party and the opposition, a window of opportunity has opened up to re-examine our electoral policies and laws. Endemic corruption continues to pull this country backwards. The IEBC as currently constituted cannot be trusted to conduct a free and fair election. The March 9 handshake between Uhuru and Raila Odinga has only served to suspend hostilities and ethnic tension. It is a temporary balm and the committee that was recently appointed must burn the midnight oil to come up with a nationally acceptable framework to put our electoral demons to rest permanently. As matters currently stand the DP’s infantrymen are criss-crossing the country, warning all and sundry that they will not accept their man to be upstaged in the 2022 presidential succession race. All eyes are on Raila, whom they consider to be a spoiler. Veiled threats are being issued on a daily basis. The sense of entitlement in the DP’s camp is frightening and one can only shudder at the consequences of their failure to clinch the ultimate prize. In a strange twist the Deputy President landed at former President Moi’s Kabarak home uninvited and in total breach of protocol. Moi, tongue in cheek, had his people offer them lunch and politely declined to give them audience. One wonders what would have been the consequences had Moi’s security detail decided to blow the uninvited intrusive helicopter out of the sky! The office and person of the Deputy President must not pretend to be ignorant of protocol. The stunts they are pulling are potentially life-threatening. Kenya has been thrown into permanent campaign mode once again and it will undoubtedly harm the economy. Just when the business community was preparing to make hay while the sun shines, politics has claimed centre stage. How Uhuru will deliver on his four promised pillars in the current environment is anybody’s guess.