The county has heard residents’ cries over deplorable roads, uncollected garbage, overflowing drains, lack of water and the sorry state of health facilities. Roads, environment, health and housing have been allocated the biggest share of the proposed Sh34.2 billion budget for 2018-19. It was presented by the county treasury to the assembly last week. The budget is Sh1.5 billion less than the Sh35.9 billion 2017-18 budget approved during former Governor Evans Kidero’s time. This was before Sonko revised it to Sh33.6 billion in a supplementary in March. The budget has, however, a Sh300 million deficit. The budget document does not say how the county plans to fill the deficit. The county has allocated Sh24 billion, or 70 per cent, to recurrent expenditure and Sh0.2 billion has been set aside for development. The county assembly will receive Sh2.1 billion of recurrent allocation. About Sh4.9 billion has been allocated to transport, roads and the public works sector. It will finance carpeting of roads and installation of streetlights. About Sh1.1 billion has been dedicated to solid waste management, cleaning up the garbage choking the city. The county has allocated Sh601 million to refurbish, equip and supply hospitals that have been operating for more than a year without medicines and supplies. "The government seeks to stem the rising infant mortality rates, halt and reverse declining child nutrition indicators, enhance immunisation coverage and eradicate preventable causes of morbidity," the document reads. FAILS TO MEET TARGETS To finance the budget, the county expects to receive Sh15.7 billion from the national government, an increase from the current Sh15.4 billion. It expects Sh719 million in conditional grants. From internal sources, the county hopes to pump in Sh17.4 billion. Since 2013, the county has failed to meet its internal revenue collection targets. The budget statement says revenue has increased with the automation of collections. This is expected to help reduce the deficit. About Sh358 million has been allocated to the expansion and rehabilitation of markets and setting up a tourism information centre The budget allocates Sh500 million to education and gender affairs. About Sh100 million of that amount will fund construction of 34 new ECD centres and the rehabilitation of 10 other centres. Some Sh83 million will also go finance the free ECD policy. On housing, the county has allocated Sh417 million to rehabilitate housing and improving living conditions in informal settlement. This includes better sanitation and street lighting. The treasury seems to have ignored Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo’s circular on the Ward Development Fund. It agreed to MCAs’ demands and allocated Sh1.2 billion for the ward development fund. The money will be used to repair roads in all the 85 wards. The County Wards Development Equalisation Bill 2018 sought to establish a Sh21.8 billion development kitty for all wards in the country, with each wards receiving Sh15 million annually. Click here for the latest political news