DPP Noordin Haji has exuded the confidence that the country's 'big fish' will be prosecuted in the ongoing corruption investigations. He said the agency has changed tact by deviating from relying on charges spelled in the Penal Code but those embedded in various Acts of Parliament. Haji told Citizen TV in an interview that they have developed a new approach in handling the cases in line with Constitutional guarantees. The DPP said he does not see any obstacles stopping them from prosecuting the big fish as the office of the DPP has lined up senior counsels to help handle the cases. Citing that they are banking on President Uhuru Kenyatta's goodwill, the DPP promised Kenyans that the cases will be dispensed to their satisfaction. "We have learned from past mistakes and are applying a new approach to collaborating and coordinating with agencies to handle the scandals." The President on Wednesday promised to ensure that those found culpable, no matter their rank and position in the country, will be prosecuted. "If you are found to have stolen from Kenyans, be rest assured that you will be jailed...and your community will not defend you," Uhuru said in Eastlands. More on this: Uhuru to corruption suspects: 'Your tribe won’t protect you' And in reiteration, Haji said Kenyans will see a big difference as the investigative agencies have now recognised that crime and corruption are more complex. He added that the EACC is also playing a vital role but they have allocated different cases to various bodies to reduce the workload so as to expedite the cases. "The police is a bigger force to help in the cases," he said. The DPP said the agency is in the process of recovering and freezing assets of those involved in graft "so that people will not enjoy stolen property". The Assets and Recovery Agency, which was part of the multi-agency team pursuing the cases, had been profiling some of the recovered property. On the security of the prosecutors and the officers, he admitted that corruption was a threat to them "but somebody has to take the risk for the country". "In my opinion, corruption is more dangerous than terrorism," Haji said. Click here for the latest political news