Bungoma Governor Wycliffe
Wangamati wants Public Service Board members to serve for five years as officers in elective offices. Their terms are currently six years long. Wangamati also proposed on Friday that the mandates of PSBs be differentiated from those of county human resource departments. He said HR should hire low cadre staff and that the boards should be allowed to handle higher positions. "The board's hiring of all county staff, including casuals, renders the human resource department redundant," he said in Bungoma during a meeting with the Senate Committee on Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations. Related: Court reinstates six Bungoma Public Service Board members Wangamati also discussed county financing; he decried delays in the disbursement of funds by the government saying counties have been unable to offer services and implement
projects. “We are yet to
receive our allocations of April, March and February,” the Governor told the committee, and asked Treasury to adhere to constitutional timelines of releasing funds to the 47 counties. Wamatangi, however, asked counties to manage their recurrent expenditure. He pointed out that the major challenges they are facing include a bloated workforce. “As presently constituted, the recurrent expenditure gobbles up more than 70 per cent of the allocation with only 30 per cent left to development,” he said. Read: Nairobi to get lion’s share of county cash BILL ON TREASURY PENALTIES The committee chaired by Senator John Nderitu (Laikipia) was on a fact-finding tour in the county on the successes and shortcomings of devolution. While noting the importance of reviewing how money is disbursed, the legislators said they will propose a Bill to penalise Treasury when timelines are not met. They added that there is need for MCAs and county officials to undergo more training to enable cooperation and accountability. The Senators committed to supporting the idea of shortening the term of the PSB and working towards development of a County Pension Scheme. Among those present were Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi, Kabaka Mutinda of Machakos, Wario Golich of Tana River and members of the Secretariat. Wamatangi said devolution has created new economic hubs away from the political and
administrative capital as was the case from independence up to 2013. “Through devolution, we are
getting more funding in health, agriculture, food security and infrastructure." Wamatangi spoke of challenged such as the unending wrangles
between MCAs and the Executive, which he pointed out are unhelpful to counties' development agenda. “There is yet another challenge
of our people failing to differentiate between national and county government
functions,” he added. Read: State of the Nation: Devolution no longer a baby, commitment intact, says Uhuru Click here for the latest political news