President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee yesterday appeared to test the waters, for an expansion of the Cabinet, with a proposal to create a Chief Minister post. A leaked draft Bill — The Constitution of Kenya, 2010 (Amendment) Bill, 2018 — proposes the creation of the position of Chief Minister. It is authored by a Jubilee strategist. It emphasises ethnic inclusion and declares that it is not sustainable to continue to have the perception the country’s leadership is controlled by only two communities. The Bill’s memorandum says it intends to help end Kenya’s long history of ethnic grambling. It says, for example, no more than three Cabinet members shall come from one ethnic community. Several Jubilee insiders shared the document on several WhatsApp groups in what appeared to be an effort to gauge public reaction. The issue of amending the Constitution in any way to expand the Executive and make governance more inclusive is highly emotive, with forces pushing for and against any modification of the document. “The objective of this Bill is, therefore, to amend the Constitution to expand the Executive and ensure that as many communities as possible are incorporated into government without necessarily changing the system of Government,” the draft Bill says. The document pops up during a raging debate whether Kenya should review the 2010 Constitution to change the structure of the Executive. The leaked bill says amending the Constitution is better than a total rewrite and referendum on a new document. There are proposals to change the governance system to a Parliamentary democracy or a hybrid, which could expand the Executive to enhance inclusion of more political parties and communities that feel excluded in the Presidential system. BID OPPOSED, SUPPORTED ODM leader Raila Odinga and his party have supported the proposal to amend the Constitution while Deputy President William Ruto has publicly and vehemently opposed the suggestion. President Uhuru Kenyatta also subtly opposed the proposal to amend the Constitution in a way that would send the country to a referendum before the next election. The Bill is drafted by Washington Makodingo who describes himself as a Kenyan voter. Makodingo is a Jubilee strategist, recently vetted for the position of Chief Officer in the Nairobi county government. The Bill says Article 152 is to be deleted and a new Article 151 ( 1 ) adopted to expand the Cabinet to introduce the position of Chief Minister. Currently, the Cabinet consists of the President, the Deputy President, the Attorney General and not fewer than 14 nor more than 21 cabinet secretaries. “The President shall nominate and, with the approval of the National Assembly, appoint the Chief Minister and cabinet secretaries,” the document in circulation states. The proposed amendment also says “no more than three members of the Cabinet shall come from the same ethnic community.” To cater for gender balance, it states “no more than two-thirds of the Cabinet shall be of the same gender.” The Constitution would also be amended by inserting a new Article 153B immediately after Article 153 to define the office of the Chief Minister. According to the document, the Chief Minister shall have two deputies appointed from among the cabinet secretaries. The office holder shall have authority to coordinate and supervise the execution of the functions and affairs of the government, including those of ministries. “The Chief Minister may assign any of the coordination responsibilities of his office to any of the Deputy Chief Ministers,” the document reads. It says the Chief Minister shall appear before Parliament or any of its committees to respond to any issue cutting across several departments, or when called upon to do so. The draft Bill also says the Chief Minister or any of his or her deputies shall not be from the President or Deputy President’s ethnic group. ENDING ETHNIC STRIFE Drafter Makodingo explains in its memorandum the Bill seeks to help end Kenya’s long history of “ethnic-related strife”. “This has majorly been as a result of certain communities feeling left out of government. Historically, Kenya has been most peaceful when as many of the major ethnic groups as possible have been substantially represented in government,” the document reads. It says the best example of this is found in the Grand Coalition Government of 2008 to 2013, a compromise government after the bungled 2007 elections and violent aftermath. “Whereas substantial debate has gone on about the possibility of changing the system of government, I do not believe we have given the current system of government sufficient time to properly evaluate its viability,” the Memorandum of Objects and Reasons in the draft Bill reads. The drafter also argues that for a Constitution approved by a super-majority barely eight years ago, Kenyans owe it to themselves and future generations to make every effort to try and make it work. “Otherwise we will be changing systems of Government every 10 or so years, whenever it does not suit one side of the political divide,” the document says. The author argues that using the Bill would be better than going to a referendum, which he argues Kenya cannot afford at this time. “As a country, we have neither the resources nor the energy to go through another protracted electioneering period in the name of a referendum so as to change the system of Government when we have barely given the current system time for full implementation,” Makodingo says. “Sooner or than later, the rest of the country will not see the need to participate in the affairs of this country — and we have seen elements of this in the repeat Presidential elections of 2017,” the Bill states. Also read: Jubilee in new bid to create powerful PM Click here for the latest political news