Pastor James Ng'ang'a of Neno Evangelism Centre has been cleared of the charge of causing death by dangerous driving. Ng'ang's was acquitted at a Limuru court on Friday alongside driver Simon Kuria and police officers Christopher Nzioka and Patrick Baya. Security was right when the four arrived. Chief Magistrate Godfrey Oduor said the prosecution did not produce evidence enough for their conviction. "The four don't have a case to answer," he said, adding the full ruling will be delivered on Monday. It was alleged that the pastor drove Range Rover Sport KCD 060Q carelessly on August 26, 2015, resulting in the death of a woman named Mercy Njeri. The driver of the car collided head-on with a Nissan March, registration KBZ 709W, at Manguo area in Limuru. Kuria and Nzioka had been accused of giving false information to police while Baya, who was Tigoni police station base commander, faced a charge of neglecting his duties. The accused denied the charges.  Neno Evangelism Ministries Pastor James Ng'ang'a and driver Simon Kuria, at Limuru Law Courts, for a ruling in the case of the death of a woman in a road accident, May 4, 2018. /GEORGE MUGO Ng'ang'a's lawyer Assa Nyakundi held brief for three others during the ruling - they sent apologies saying they were attending to cases in other courts. Outside the courtroom after the judgment, Njeri's relatives said they will appeal the ruling as they were dissatisfied. Family lawyer Kariuki Wanjiri said: “The ruling took a long time. The case was adjourned several times as we waited for it. We were so shocked to hear that they don't have a case to answer. We will appeal after the full ruling." Read: Neno pastor case moved for sixth time Widower Martin Mbugua said he could not comment as he needed time to come to terms with the ruling on his wife's death. Mbugua's father Peter Ndung'u said his children had been denied justice. He asked: “Does acquitting all the accused persons mean my children faked the accident in which my daughter-in-law died?”  Widower Martin Mbugua outside Limuru Law Courts, where Pastor James Ng'ang'a was acquitted of charges cocnerning the death of his wife Mercy Njeri, May 4, 2018. /GEORGE MUGO Ng'ang'a distanced himself from the accident that year and accused police and the media of tarnishing his name by linking him to it. He said he is "not like [Salvation Healing Ministry Pastor Victor] Kanyari". "Mine is a legitimate ministry and you cannot pull me down," he said. More on this: Media, cops want to finish me - Ng'ang'a Click here for the latest political news