Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo is in stable condition and is expected to be released from Kisumu's Aga Khan hospital anytime soon. The legislator was rushed to the hospital on Saturday afternoon after he collapsed at a funeral in Alego Usonga. He was transferred to the facility from the Bondo Medical Centre where he had been treated for first aid. Julius Okel, a physician at Aga Khan, said the lawyer was out of danger, awake and speaking to his visitors. Amollo collapsed after he finished reading his speech at the funeral of a son of the late former MP Oloo Aringo. Okel said they had performed several tests on the MP and were awaiting some results. Read: Otiende Amollo collapses at a function in Siaya, rushed to hospital His wife Linet confirmed that her husband was doing well. She said the lawyer might have overworked himself following the activities he has been undertaking. “We just want to dispel the rumors that have been going around and we want to put people at peace. Let them be at peace knowing that daktari [doctor] is fine. He just probably overworked himself," Linet said. The MP was at Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti's appeal hearing all day on Thursday. Linet said prior to that, he played a game at his home at around 6am, at around 10am he took a flight to Kisumu and spent more than seven hours in court. On Friday, she said Amollo was in the constituency building houses and was on Saturday scheduled to attend three funerals in the constituency. "However, he collapsed when we were at the first funeral," Linet told journalists outside the Aga Khan Hospital. Also at the hospital to see the MP was Siaya Senator James Orengo, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, Kieni MP Kanini Kega, Elizabeth Ongoro amongst other leaders. Orengo echoed Linet's sentiments that Amollo has been running a busy schedule of late. "For the last two weeks, he has been in court, he has been in parliament and he has been in the constituency. It's a question of exhaustion and dehydration but as we were in the hospital, he is stable and I think there is no cause for alarm," Orengo said. Wamalwa, who was in Homabay and Siaya Counties for tree planting activities said when he received the information about the MP, he rushed to Kisumu to see him. “We have seen him, he is in very good spirits, the doctors say he is okay and by tomorrow he will be able to get back on his feet," Wamalwa said. Click here for the latest political news 