Two firms at the centre of the controversial Ruaraka land have defended payment made to them by the government and accused some unnamed individuals of trying to blackmail them. Afrison Export-Import Limited and Huelands Limited said they are the genuine owners of the parcel. Ruaraka Secondary School, Drive Inn Primary School, a subcounty office and a chief’s office are on the land. In a statement yesterday, the firms said they bought the 97 acres in 1981 from Joreth Limited whose directors at the time were Duncan Ndegwa, a former CBK governor, the late politicians Njenga Karume and Arthur Magugu. After the purchase, the government expressed interest in the entire parcel and cordoned it off, but did not compensate the owners, they said. The government however paid for 198 maisonettes, which occupied 7.3 acres. The directors later sold 30 acres to the General Service Unit housing project. The companies said that in 1986, the state built two schools on a portion of the land without compensating the firms. DO and chief’s offices followed, the directors said. Read:Estranged fraudster exposes land racket “Frustrated and left with no option, we decided to move to court,” the companies said. They said the court awarded them Sh4.1 billion, which the Attorney General’s office negotiated to Sh2.4 billion. “So far, out of the Sh2.4 billion, six years later, the government has paid Sh1.8 billion, which was meant to be paid within 90 days,” the directors said. They claimed “grabbers” have been frustrating full compensation as ordered by the court. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority under the Transport ministry has acquired 12 acres for construction of the Outering Road and access roads to Mathare North Estate, they said. The Education ministry has acquired 13.5 acres for the two schools, while the Interior ministry occupies 37.5 acres for GSU houses. The firms said the Education ministry wrote to the National Land Commission, which, after investigations, confirmed the land belonged to the two companies. “The land is worth Sh400 million per acre. The 13.5-acre school land is valued at approximately Sh5.4 billion, but we have sold the same land to the government for Sh3.2 billion, of which they have paid Sh1.5 billion,” the directors said. They added that some of those frustrating the compensation have been salivating for the cash. Also Read:MPs probe Sh3b payment for Ruaraka school land Click here for the latest political news