President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked for Kenyans' forgiveness for not uniting the country during last years’ elections period. In his State of the Nation Address on Wednesday, he said all politicians must admit that they failed in their duty to preserve unity and make amends. Uhuru noted that the primary lesson last year was that Kenya will come to its end if politicians compete unrestrained. Uhuru, who ended up signing an agreement for reconciliation and development with Opposition leader Raila Odinga, said he learned that peace and unity are not guaranteed but that Kenyans must work together. “You saw what happened. In the heat of campaigns, words of anger, malice and hatred were spoken. Politics was no longer a debate between opponents on issues; it was a clash of irreconcilable enemies,” he said. “You saw the consequences: lives lost, property destroyed, our unity sapped ... I want to be clear here: never again should Kenyan lives be lost for politics’ sake. Never again should Kenyans’ property be destroyed on account of politics but that will not just happen on its own." Read:New dawn: Uhuru and Raila resolve to work together to heal Kenya More on deal: Uhuru tells world why he decided to work with Raila Uhuru's hope is that the public will take time to repair the bonds that frayed last year and that leaders should apologise for the anger and malice Kenyans heard from them. “From Mandera to Maseno, Mbita to Mvita, Lodwar to Lunga Lunga, let us shake hands and embrace our neighbors, and let us celebrate the diversity that is God’s gift to us." While reaching out to Embakasi MP Babu Owino for a hand shake, the President said every leader in the country must do the same and preach gentle speaking, constructive criticism, respect for dissent and competition as well as civilised collaboration. “And since leadership is best done, not by exhortation but by example, let me do as I have asked you to do. If there was anything I said last year that hurt or wounded you, if I damaged the unity of this country in any way, I ask you to forgive me and join me in repairing that harm,” Uhuru said as Babu approached him. "ETHNIC IDENTITY NOT POLITICAL IDENTITY" The President went on: “I am not the only leader who deeply felt the need to restore unity: the Right Honpourable Raila Odinga did so too. So let me praise the statesmanship he showed when, on March 9, this year, he and I publicly committed to reconciliation, with the Kenyan people as our witnesses”. Uhuru said he and Raila reached an agreement to emphasise that collaboration comprises both competition and disagreement. “We did not immediately solve all of Kenya’s most pressing problems, nor did we see eye to eye on every proposed answer; it is important to emphasise that unity doesn’t mean unanimity," he said. Uhuru said he and Raila stood together because they agreed that Kenya belongs to every citizen. “None of us is less or, for that matter, more Kenyan than his brother or sister. All of us are entitled to be heard; all of us are entitled to our fair share of Kenya’s resources; and all of us are entitled to a government that honors these commitments,” he said. Read: Uhuru tells off handshake critics, says will continue working with Raila Uhuru noted that Kenyans reacted with a surge of optimism to their meeting because they wanted a return to unity. “Our handshake invited Kenyans to rediscover what they had known all along, when all the politics is said and done, we are each other’s keepers." Uhuru however said if Kenya is to remain strong, there is need to change the approach to political competition. “We are proud, and rightly so, of our cultural heritage, but it does not follow that our ethnic identity is our political identity,” he said. “We have done that for half a century and it has brought us very close to complete ruin. Too many of our leaders have manipulated our ethnicity to seize power and then exploited it to avoid accountabilit." Regarding development, he said Kenya cannot afford another 50 years of farmers struggling to make a living and families without proper sanitation and bankrupted by healthcare costs. He said leaders must demonstrate true patriotism by teaching the future generations how to criticise constructively, adore hard work, reject the easy shilling and always preserve unity. More on this: [State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Also read: Uhuru warns lords of corruption, wants proper legal tools Click here for the latest political news