Until the recent construction of dykes in Budalang’i, the Busia constituency was often flooded and residents forced to rely on relief food from well-wishers. This would not be the case if they made the most of rice farming, whose potential of creating jobs and changing lives is under-exploited. With a population of 66,723 people as of the 2009 census, Budalang’i
has a mean annual rainfall of 1,020-1,270mm. This is suitable for growing rice,
which is the area’s main cash crop. Magombe and Ruambwa-Mudembi irrigation
schemes form the main rice-growing zones, covering some 2,000 acres, with Sisenye
being the other major irrigation scheme. Bunyala
subcounty has 4,500 active rice farmers. Of these, 2,000 are from Magombe,
1,000 from Sisenye and 1,500 rice from Ruambwa/Mudembi. Agricultural
Finance Corporation MD Lucas Meso recently urged rice farmers to ensure Budalang’i
has properly branded rice in two years. He spoke at a farmers’ education forum
in St Benedict Budalang’i High School, Bunyala subcounty. Meso said officers from the AFC will visit the rice schemes in
Bunyala subcounty to assess farmers’ needs. Select farmers will be taken to
other regions in an exchange programme to learn more from successful farmers countrywide. “Budalang’i, as a major rice-growing zone, has the potential to
feed the entire western region,” the MD said. He said Kenya
has received a loan from India to help buy equipment that will improve rice
farming. A rice milling plant will be given priority.
Moreover, the AFC will train poultry keepers, dairy and horticultural farmers
in Bunyala to equip them with modern agricultural
techniques. BIRD
RAIDS, LOW MARKET Although
large-scale rice growing in Bunyala has helped residents prosper, rice farmers
have lost millions of shillings due to birds that invade their cereals. More
than 400 acres of rice ready for harvesting were recently destroyed by the
birds, says Christopher Gunyi, chairman of the Magombe Multi-Purpose
Cooperative Society. Gunyi
says rice farmers previously repulsed the birds with the help of a farmer from
Dominion Farms in Siaya. However, the birds have trebled since the farmer
decided to replace rice with sugarcane. Magombe rice scheme covers 1,700 acres, with one acre producing 25
bags of rice per harvest. Lately, farmers have struggled to market of the crop.
The Co-operatives department will fund the society to help it buy rice from
farmers and repackage it before being sold in supermarkets. “We
cannot be growers yet we sell our rice to people from other counties at
throwaway prices, who later repackage it and resell it to us at exorbitant
prices,” Co-operatives executive Judith Maketso said, adding that the county also
plans to build a value addition factory for the Magombe Rice Scheme. Another
major problem is when the farmer wants cash for use and the society does not
have it. This compels farmers to sell the rice at a throwaway price, despite
the high production cost they incur. Other
problems faced include low prices at harvesting time, cheating in weighing
scales by traders, poor quality produce and lack of storage facilities. Maketso
said for Magombe to shell the rice from the husks in large quantities, it
urgently needs a bigger machine. The husks produced can also be used for animal
and fish feeds, with a bag of husk going for Sh1,000. Due to lack of funds,
farmers have not been able to package the rice in various kilo quantities. So
far, the Busia government has provided Magombe with 11 tractors for tilling,
but the scheme still requires more tractors and rippers to make work easier for
rice growers. Meanwhile, the national government is planning to expand the
rice-growing project through the Lower Nzoia Project. EXPANSION
PLANS The Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has
pledged to support Busia in value addition. National chairman Kiprono
Kittony met the county’s Cooperatives chief officer Nelson Kwamini at the chamber’s
Kitale offices. Kwamini
said lack of value addition has forced most rice farmers to sell their harvest
at a cheaper price, incurring huge losses. He said they also discussed cotton
and milk production. “The
chairman is keen to get donor funding for the three projects in
Busia county, which he said will go a long way in creating jobs for residents
and earning revenue for the county. Once the Mulwanda ginnery in Samia
and Jairos in Teso North are brought back to life and fully operational,
animal feeds and textiles products will be generated from the two
factories,” Kwamini said. He
said value addition would greatly benefit the rice scheme in Magombe, as
well as the milk processing plants in Butula and Nambale subcounties. As for
Ruambwa/Mudembi rice irrigation scheme, the farmers are in dire need of a rice
dryer closer to the rice farms, just like Magombe’s. The
rice farmers say a rice depot former MP Ababu Namwamba constructed at Nadero is
too far, and during the rains, they incur huge losses as the rice is damaged. TRAINING TIPS During a financial literacy training held at Maseno Agricultural
Training Centre in June 2016, farmers were urged to form groups to carry out
marketing, encourage value addition and push for branding. The rice farmers were also encouraged to follow good agronomic
practices that lead to high quality produce, reduce production costs by
adopting efficient and effective cultivation practices, inspect weighing scales
by Weights and Measures Authority to avoid cheating, and introduce
high-yielding rice varieties and a warehouse receipting system. Ruambwa/Mudembi scheme farmer Joachim Abungu said the training was
an eye opener. Abungu said although rice farming has a lot of problems, it has
helped him earn a living. He has taken his children to school, built a house, bought
a cow and a motorbike that he hires out for Sh300 daily. The
rice farmer criticised Kenya Power and Lighting Company for persistent power
failures. He said blackouts hamper pumping of water into the rice fields, leading
to low yield, as rice requires a lot of water.