The city could have lost millions of shillings because it failed to engage independent professionals to value the Mariakani estate when it was transferred to a pension scheme in 2013. A report by the Public Accounts Committee says the former City Council and its successor county government relied on its own valuers. They could have colluded to undervalue the multi-billion property during its transfer to Local Authorities Provident Fund, the report said. The county transferred the estate to Lapfund through a debt swap to clear Sh2.2 billion the city owed the scheme. Lapfund waived 50 per cent of the total debt as part of the deal. “Documents adduced to the committee did not show any independent and professional valuation of the property, thus casting aspersions on the disclosed value of the property,” the report says. The report was tabled on Thursday last week by PAC chairman Wilfred Odalo. ‘glaring gaps’ in minutes’ Transfer of the estate has been controversial since 2014 when Auditor General Edward Ouko raised questions about the process leading to its transfer.zThe estate has 30 blocks of eight apartments each, with a total of 240 three-bed room units. Each tenant pays Sh10,000 per month. In his 2015-16 report, the auditor cited “glaring gaps” in the minutes of the meeting that authorised the transfers. “Due diligence on transfer of the property requires both the Ministry of Lands and at least two independent valuers undertake valuations prior to transfer. However, it is not clear how the valuation for Mariakani was undertaken,”it reads. The auditor says the memorandum of the transfer of the estate dated March 18, 2013, indicates the transfer of the property by the Nairobi City Council but by that date, the council was non-existent in law. In February 2012, the estate was valued at Sh1.4 billion but this was revised to Sh1.95 billion in 2013 following revaluation ordered by Governor Evans Kidero. Though the estate was transferred to Lapfund in 2013, the county was still collecting rent from tenants. STOP COLLECTING RENT However, the PAC report said the transfer process was not flawed since the deal was signed by all authorised officers. They included the mayor, town clerk and chairperson of the finance committee. The report asked the county not to lay any claim to the estate and said it should stop collecting rent since the estate was legally transferred to Lapfund. DON’T EVICT TENANTS “The officials of the defunct City Council did not commit any offense by transferring the estate to Lapfund since the swap, which is an acceptable form of settling debt, was approved by the Ministry of Local Government as required,”the report read. The report warned new landlords against evicting the tenants and asked Lapfund to enter into a tenancy agreement with them. On February 8, Lapfund through Gikera and Vadagama Advocates, notified tenants to clear Sh490,000 in rent, which has been accumulating since 2013. The tenants said they have been paying rent to City Hall as they had not received the communication from the county government about the transfer of the estate.