Five people have been killed and more than 10,000 displaced after Lake Baringo and four other pan dams burst on Saturday following heavy rains. The pan dams are; Chepelow, Kapnus, Kacheptuya and Lokidich in Churo-Amaya ward in Tiaty Sub-county. Two women died on spot. “The dams broke their banks following the ongoing heavy rains that continue to wreak havoc in the county since last week,” Tiaty East deputy sub-county commissioner Reuben Ratemo said. Some 50 goats were also swept by the waters during the 6 pm incident. Most of the displaced are currently camping at AIC Church Amaya. Among the primary schools affected by the flooding are Chepelow, Tepelekwo, Kaptuya and Kacheptuya. Read; NEMA, WARMA failed to prevent Solai dam tragedy - KHRC says Elsewhere in Kolowa, one person alongside two camels was swept away in Kolowa ward. Lake Baringo overflows Two more people reportedly drowned while over 6,000 including school children were displaced after Lake Baringo broke its banks on Friday. Five schools; Sintaan, Lorobil, Leswa, Ng’ambo primary and Ng’ambo secondary were flooded. Resident Benson Sauroki said their farms and houses were flooded, but no one was injured during the Friday morning incident. The Kenya Red Cross Society has pitched tents at Sintaan Health Centre. At least 300 displaced families are sheltering at the clinic. Lake Baringo, without a single outlet, is the second largest lake in the Rift Valley after Lake Turkana. Others on the spot are Lake 94, Kamnarok and Lake Bogoria. Water levels are rising. Also read; Death toll in Solai dam tragedy rises to 44, missing 40 Olempaka said 800 Ilchamus displaced at Mukutani by bandit attacks in March last year are also suffering. The IDPs are staying at a camp in Eldume, Marigat, in worn-out tents. “We expect Devolution Cabinet Secretary (CS) Eugene Wamalwa to land in the area today to give way forward about the killer dams,” Ratemo told the Star via phone on Sunday. The Deputy Commissioner also urged the residents to move to safer higher grounds to avoid more fatalities saying several other dams were at risk of collapsing if the rains persist. Click here for the latest political news