ODM leader Raila Odinga will initiate unity talks between Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his archrival Ochillo Ayacko. This emerged on Saturday, after differences between the two played out at the homecoming party for Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo. The two leaders did not attend, but their supporters engaged in heated exchanges. Raila calmed the warring sides and said he will help the leaders sort out their differences. “Governor Obado and Ochilo should greet each other. I also greeted [President] Uhuru [Kenyatta]. That’s the spirit we need in Migori. I will call them to have them shake hands,” Raila said. Rongo MP Paul Abuor, the Migori Parliamentary Group chairman, and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, an Ayacko ally, backed Raila. Obado and Ayacko later told the Star separately on the phone that they are ready to resolve their differences. “I’m ready. It will ensure peace just like the Uhuru-Raila handshake,” Obado said. Ayacko said both sides must be willing to talk before the handshake. “Handshakes don’t just happen. They require utmost goodwill and so many things,” he said. Their rivalry intensified in the run-up to last year’s polls. They were locked in a fierce contest for the ODM ticket, which Obado won. Ayacko challenged the nomination outcome, citing malpractices, violence, intimidation and deaths. Obado eventually prevailed and won reelection. Ayacko ran as an independent and petitioned the outcome of the August 8 election in court. On Saturday, Raila urged nine voters who want the court to throw out 12 nominated Migori MCAs to drop the case. He told the petitioners their move is “not against the MCAs, but ODM and its decisions. “Those who are not satisfied with the list will still get positions later. I want that case dropped to help the county move forward,” Raila said. “They were nominated by the party, those in court should not go against the party decision.” The list has created rift in the county assembly — the Obado and Ayacko camps. Some of those nominated campaigned for Ayacko. Obado’s supporters want them out of the assembly. They went to court to have their nominations quashed. On January 4, Rongo resident magistrate Raymond Langat nullified the list of 12 nominated members. They are Milicent Akinyi, Agnes Mogesi, Florence Adongo, Lilian Anyango, Asenta Adhiambo, Roseline Adhiambo, Florence Oile, Hellen Halima Omar, Hellen Moraa, Hellen Atieno, Chris Atieno and Maurine Dande. The MCAs appealed to have the decision reversed.