The Treasury plans to prevent lenders from loaning borrowers beyond their ability to pay. The Financial Market Conduct Bill, 2018 will hold lenders responsible for enticing borrowers with increased credit limits. It wants lenders to consult borrowers before increasing the limit. Currently, mobile phone lending applications including Branch, Tala and M-shwari increase credit limits for borrowers without consent. If the bill becomes law, lenders will have to determine that it will not result in substantial hardship to the borrower. Lenders will be barred from entering into a regulated credit contract with a borrower if that credit is likely to expose the borrower to hardship. Doing so could attract a penalty of Sh10 million for first offence and Sh20 million in a subsequent case. Additionally, lenders will be prohibited from having clauses in the loan contract that purport to increase the credit limit under a contract without the consent of the borrower. BORROW MORE THAN INCOME Treasury also wants to establish specific hours within which financial service firms will be allowed to trade loans. Looking for customers outside this period could lead to a Sh5 million or two years in prison for a first offence. A repeat offence will attract Sh10 million or five years in jail. This is expected to cultivate responsible borrowing among Kenyans with experts raising concerns over poor borrowing habits. Many Kenyans have several mobile loans to service forcing them to jump from one service provider to another, according to Financial Sector Deepening Kenya. It noted that most youth are taking advantage of mobile lending to take loans mostly at night to satisfy their lifestyles. “Better tools need to be developed to track over-indebtedness and multiple borrowing. Many borrowers report cutting on consumption to repay loans and many report dipping into their savings,” FSD recommended in their recent survey that shows most young employees borrow more than their income. The Bill seeks to protect borrowers from the predatory nature of lenders and proposes three regulatory bodies to supervise, license and adjudicate cases within the sector. “National Treasury has reviewed the challenges in the consumer credit and market conduct and has developed a draft Financial Markets Conduct Bill,” Treasury PS Kamau Thugge said. BILL PROPOSES LICENCES FOR FIRMS If the Financial Market Conduct Bill is enacted, all financial institutions including non-deposit taking ones will have to acquire financial conduct licences from the Financial Market Conduct Authority. The certificate is an equivalent to a certificate of good conduct. A person will not provide as a business or part of a business, a financial product or a financial service to a retail financial customer unless that person has a financial conduct licence.