Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has told off an MCA who accused him of skipping devolution conference saying the legislator is advancing certain politicians' interests. The governor slammed Lawi Kibire (Nominated) saying he (the MCA) is serving a ‘master’ who is undermining his leadership. The MCA had on Monday accused Governor Tolgos of failing to pay participation fee to enable CECs to attend the devolution conference which ended on Thursday in Kakamega. But Tolgos said the county representative is using the devolution conference issue to advance an ulterior motive. The county chief said he explained to the county assembly why he could not pay the Sh2 million required of them to take part in the conference. He said funds for the conference were not factored in a supplementary budget passed by the county assembly in February. "I don’t know where he [Kibire] was when the assembly passed a supplementary budget," he said. Tolgos continued: "Kibire is serving a master. He should know that in Elgeyo Marakwet, we serve the residents but not individuals with selfish interests." He said payment of the Sh2 million would have paralysed some projects in the county. The Governor said elected MCAs have not complained about his absence in Kakamega because they understood his reasons. "The conference was important for us to market our county but we had to weigh between attending it and killing a project," Tolgos said. In a quick rejoinder, Kibire dismissed Tolgos' remarks saying in questioning the county’s decision to skip the conference, he performing his oversight role as an MCA. Kibire denied the claims that he was serving a ‘master’ and told Tolgos to stop crying foul and explain the specific projects that the conference money have gone to. He claimed the county has no tangible projects to show for the at least Sh20 billion the county has received since 2013. "The governor should be telling us what he has done with the little funds in the past five years and stop crying about an unfair allocation of funds by CRA." He added: "The county has received approximately Sh20 billion, yet 95 per cent of our rural roads are in a pathetic state." On Tuesday, Tolgos said Elgeyo Marakwet is broke and accused CRA of marginalising the county through an unfair revenue allocation formula. He said the county pays salaries and can’t implement meaningful projects since it inherited many workers from the national government. Read: Elgeyo Marakwet county is broke – governor Tolgos Click here for the latest political news