President Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy and his Big Four agenda could be shattered by runaway corruption, leaders said on Friday as pressure mounted on the Executive to right the ship. They warned that his ambitious plans will be a pipe dream if he does not mercilessly punish rogue officials in his administration. The Big Four are universal healthcare, affordable housing, food security and manufacturing. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale and Mvita MP Abdulswammad Nassir said Uhuru’s plans are at risk if he does not deal decisively with corruption. Read: Jail state officers found guilty of corruption, Ruto tells investigative agencies Khalwale said all state institutions charged with combating corruption have failed. “The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and oversight institutions such as Parliament are sleeping on the job,” he told the Star on the phone. “The only person who can answer Kenyans’ questions is the President. He should not sit pretty, his legacy is at stake. He should take up this matter personally.” Khalwale said vast corruption scandals in the National Youth Service and the National Cereals and Produce Board are benefiting a few individuals. He urged Uhuru to stamp out impunity and tribalism. Nassir, who chairs the National Assembly’s Public InvestmentCommittee said, “The looting has reached unprecedented levels. Suspects implicated should be charged with treason. “Looting in government agencies is happening as if there is no tomorrow. If no action is taken to tame this cancer of corruption, our country will be ruined. The President should lead the way,” he said. Related: Gideon Moi to Uhuru: Crack the whip on NCPB scandal masterminds to save farmers Busia Woman Representaive Florence Mutua, a member of the Agriculture committee, wants Uhuru to finally get tough. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter said corruption was out of control. He urged Uhuru to deal with corrupt officials without fear or favour. “We want the real culprits brought to book. It’s immoral that farmers are languishing in poverty while criminals and cartels are benefiting,” he said. The vocal MP said cartels are running the country. He said they ejected Jubilee rebels from House committee posts. Keter, elected chairman of the Labour committee, and Silas Tiren who chaired the Agriculture panel, were removed. Keter said Parliament can’t carry out oversight as it has been captured by the Executive. He wants state officials including Cabinet secretaries to resign over looting of the NYS and the NCPB. He said farmers in the grain baskets of Rift Valley, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia are demoralised. Tiren said the list tabled before Public Accounts Committee does not contain the names of the “Big Fish”. He questioned where the maize in NCPB stores came, the vetting process of the farmers who supplied maize to NCPB. More on NCPB: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Also read: CBK probes 6 banks over NYS payments Click here for the
latest political news