Kericho Gold teas were early this month served at the House of Commons in United Kingdom during a visit by ministers from Africa and India, rubber-stamping the quality of Kenya’s teas globally. Photos doing rounds on the web show a long queue of guests at Kericho Gold display desk, ready to test various flavours produced by Gold Crown Beverages, the biggest tea buyer at the Mombasa Tea Auction. This is a reprieve to Kenyan tea whose volumes to UK in the first quarter of the year dropped to 3.1 million kilogrammes in March this year compared to 5.4 million reported in the same period last year. Kenya Tea Directorate is attributing the decline to Brexit fever that continues to sweep across Europe market even as Britain prepares to exit the bloc. According to the directorate, Britain is no longer buying same amount of tea from Kenya due to a reduced re-exportation market to other European countries who have been securing the commodity from the UK. "We can comfortably attribute this decline to Brexit, Britain has been a major buyer of our tea in Europe and it was buying for both local consumption and re-export to other European countries," Samuel Ogola, head of the directorate, said. Kenya’s tea earnings rose Sh129 billion last years, buoyed by higher prices at the Mombasa auction, making the green leaves the second highest earner of Forex for the East African nation. The value of tea exports increased from the Sh120 billion recorded in 2016 to Sh129 billion last year, despite a seven percent decline on yields caused by prolonged dry weather. The outcome has positioned tea as Kenya’s second forex earner after diaspora remittances, which stood at Sh178 billion in 11 months to November 2017. Horticulture was third at Sh85 billion. Kericho Gold is a special blend of teas from best tea estates in Kenya; carefully selected by expert Tea Tasters for richness of their taste, flavour and aroma. Some of its teas include: Attitude, Specialty, Black and Health and Wellness. Read: Tea prices grow slightly at Mombasa auction Click here for the latest political news  