As the world marks yet another Menstrual Hygiene Day all around the globe, many efforts are centred around promoting the menstrual hygiene management of girls and women to make those days of the month dignified and bearable. Lamu joins the list of regions marking the day and specifically to raise awareness of the problems women but more especially school girls from disadvantaged backgrounds have to endure during their menstruation. Lamu woman representative Ruweida Obbo has been soliciting for sanitary towels and tampons, which she distributes to less privileged girls across schools in Lamu county. Obbo says she has learnt to balance her political duties and the new venture, which she says is the only way to ensure the girls can stay put in school and do something for their future. In a community where issues to do with menstruation are spoken off in hushed tones due to the religious and cultural inclinations, many young girls have had to drop out of school whenever their menses become unbearable. “Some of the girls couldn’t simply stand the situation. They drop out of school once their menses kick in. It's such an unfortunate situation," she says. Last month, Obbo rolled out a pads and tampons donations programme, which aims to distribute the sanitary material to schools. “I am especially more worried and concerned for that disabled or mentally challenged girl out there who doesn’t even know where to start once the menses kick in. The one who can easily walk out of a learning institution never to return because they don’t understand how to deal with what’s happening to their bodies," she says. MENSTRUAL DIGNITY Obbo says the major objective is to promote menstrual dignity and as such, she has partnered with many other well-wishers to ensure the venture remains standing. On May 27, Obbo led other partners in distributing over 46,000 pieces of pads and tampons worth Sh.1.2 million to needy primary and secondary school girls in Lamu county at Mokowe Primary School. Over 2,000 schoolgirls from schools across Lamu county were lucky enough to benefit from the venture. Obbo has christened her campaign ‘Keeping girls in school’, and she says her mission is to support the education of the Lamu girl child in every way she can. She says there is need for girls to realise that there is so much more they can achieve to become successful individuals by learning how to deal with their menses effectively. “Apart from those who drop out of school,we have others who don’t attend school for the days they have their menses simply because they have no pads. They lock themselves in their homes and only resume normal lives when their menses are over. It's uncomfortable to lead such a life. My campaign, therefore, is to make that period as normal as can be." Obbo says the campaign also seeks to empower girls to realise their worth and not fall into the early marriage pit simply because of their menses. She says it was time to break the silence and build awareness about the fundamental role that good menstrual hygiene management plays in enabling women and girls to reach their potential. The woman rep says sanitary towels should no longer be a luxury for any girl. Obbo says its sad that in this day and age, girls and women in the county are forced to turn to the use of pieces of cloths and old newspapers, as they lack the means to afford a pack of sanitary towels. “We hope to reach over 1,000 school girls and another 1,000 young women in the county, especially those from the pastoralist community. Anyone willing to donate the sanitary pads can do so through the woman representative county offices from across the 10 wards in Lamu. We want to ensure our girls attend classes and remain in class. This can only be achieved through ensuring they manage their menstruation with dignity,” Obbo says.