Manufactures have warned of a likely exodus of their businesses to cheap labour markets due to an increased high cost of labour in the country. This comes a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced a five per cent rise in the minimum wage during this years labour day. Through their lobby group, Kenya Association of Manufactures, the factory owners said that the wage increase is a huge blow to industry and will negatively impact the livelihood of workers. Further, it said that most businesses are likely to end up reducing the number of jobs in order to meet their overhead costs while export of local jobs is likely to head to Ethiopia and Bangladesh. KAM Chief executive hailed the two countries for having a thriving economy while at the same time maintaining fare wages. Under President Uhuru's Big four Agenda, manufacturing is among them and his government intends to drive manufacturing contribution to GDP to 15 per cent by the year 2022 from the current 9 per cent. This means growing at a 36 per cent rate annually. He also intends to create atleast 1.2 million jobs within the said period by investing in labour intensive areas such as textile and apparel and leather production. However,Wakiaga said in her statement to the Star that that the goal seems far out of reach and nearly impossible to achieve due to a high cost of labour in the country. “The effects of a drastic minimum wage increase will mean restructuring and downsizing in many business operations...a ceremonial wage increase will not help us as a country to tackle the subject of poverty eradication in a sustainable way,” Wakiaga said. The recently released Economic Survey by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics shows that the manufacturing sector grew at a dismal 0.2 per cent in 2017 compared to 2.7 per cent in the previous year. Yet the sector is one of the leading employers in the country. While at that, data from the 2015/16 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey shows that atleast 1.4 million Kenyans who make up the country's labour force are unemployed. To create jobs and sustainably grow the sector, the lobby is calling on the government to look at reducing the overall cost of living for citizens. Also, they want an increase in the tax bracket and an an exemption of overtime and bonus for low income earners. “We can continually increase wages, but as long as the purchasing power of citizens is constantly eroded by the high cost of living, increased wages will not improve their lives.” Wakiaga said.    