HIV-Aids is a thorn in the side of Homa
Bay county. It is among the leading counties nationally in HIV prevalence, with
26 per cent of its 1.1 million people affected, according to the National Aids
Control Council. County NACC coordinator Kenneth Okeyo says
the prevalence is four times that of Kenya. Moreover, it has increased from
25.4 per cent in 2013 to 26.0 per cent as of last year. The HIV-Aids estimates prompted the Star
to research on the high indicator. HIV expert George Orwel, who worked with
Egpaf and Maisha Trust, says they did a lot of research on the spread of
disease in the county. He points out unique behaviours which he says contribute
to the high prevalence. DRUG DEFAULTING Many residents living with HIV enrol and
collect ARVs, but they do not take the drugs. They throw them away instead because
they are living in denial and do not want friends or family to know they are
positive. The behaviour is so rampant in Homa Bay
town, there is a place nicknamed ARV Corner.
This corner is about 250m from Homa Bay County Referral Hospital. It has
several disposed containers with drugs. Other patients dump the drugs in
toilets, dust bins, rivers and sometimes Lake Victoria. “We observed that most people who throw
away the drugs are youths who are also sexually active,” Orwel says. He says adolescent
youths are key drivers in transmitting HIV because they fear going for testing
but engage in sex. “In fact, if they are tested positive,
they fear or don’t register for ARVs, because of stigma from their colleagues,”
Orwel says. SEX FOR FISH Homa Bay has more than 70 per cent Lake
Victoria water cover, compared to other counties around the lake. Many
residents fish for a living. County Beach Management Unit chairman Edward Oremo
says they have 134 beaches. Most of the time, the beaches are full of
fishers. However, Orwel says, the high HIV prevalence among fisher folk is due
to social interactions. Shortage of fish forces businesswomen to have sex with
fishermen to acquire them. “Most of these women become desperate when
they fail to get fish. Fishermen take advantage and lure them into sex,” Orwel
says. The women enter into sexual deals with
particular fishermen for assurance of regular fish supply. A fisherman who
engages women in sex for fish is called Jaboya.
“Some women confess they have a Jaboya who provides them with fish at their
time of need,” Orwel says. He says the prevalence increases in
beaches when an infected Jaboya has sex with several women. A Jaboya who catches
a lot of fish may end up having sex with more than five women in a day because
they scramble and fear returning home without fish,” he says. Most sex for fish is done in bushes near
the lake, after which they take a bath. “The prevalence is promoted because
they engage in unprotected sex and do it in hurry,” Orwel says. UNTRAINED MIDWIVES Many expectant women give birth with the
help of traditional birth attendants. More than 60 per cent of women in Shauri Yako,
Misita and Sofia estates in Homa Bay town deliver children at the homes of TBAs
instead of hospitals. The women say TBAs are accessible and
handle them with respect. They call TBA women as min Jossy (mama Jossy). “They say they better seek prenatal
services and deliver at TBAs than hospital, where they are quarrelled by
arrogant nurses and clinicians,” Orwel says. Two of five women you meet in Shauri Yako
estate confess they have delivered twice at the homes of min Jossy. The women
have trust and believe min Jossy is capable of handling all prenatal services
and complications. “They believe the herbal medicine used by
min Jossy is better and God-given,” Orwel adds. However, the women are at high
risk of contracting HIV at min Jossy’s homes because the TBAs are untrained. For
instance, they commonly use unsterilised tools. A single razor blade can be
used to cut more than two umbilical cords of different babies. “TBAs handle things manually, hence high
risk of HIV transmission from mother to child when they mishandle placenta and
umbilical cord,” Orwel says. BODA BODA RIDERS Other key drivers of high HIV prevalence,
according to the Homa Bay Multisectoral Aids Strategic Plan, are boda boda
riders and single mothers. Orwel says boda boda riders sleep with
women whose husbands have left home for work. “The women assign motorcyclists
some household duties, and they develop friendship that eventually ends in bed,”
he says. Cases of marriage break-ups that involve
boda boda riders are common, Orwel says. Some women have sex with the riders
for family conflict vengeance. “Most riders brag at their parking yards
about the large number of ‘trucks’ they drive in the absence of their owners,”
Orwel says. He says the riders have baptised such women as Lori (lorry). “The
riders are stress doctors to most working class women,” he says. The prevalence will continue to rise
should residents fail to change their habits. COUNTY INTERVENTIONS County deputy AIDs and STIs coordinator
Philip Bondo agrees that the social behaviours contribute to the high
prevalence. He says they have identified about 70 famous TBAs who assist
expectant women in delivery. “The worry is that TBAs are celebrated by
most women in Homa Bay. Several women visit them but we appeal they refer them
to hospitals for safe delivery,” Bondo says. County director of health Gordon Okomo
says poverty also contributes to the high prevalence. “High poverty index,
especially among adolescent youths, makes them vulnerable,” he says. Okomo says the county, together with
partners, is fighting the prevalence. “We’re fighting stigma, urging people to
go for testing and enrol for ARVs to reduce HIV-Aids and other related deaths,”
he says. In 2015, Governor Cyprian Awiti declared
HIV-Aids a county disaster due to its high burden and scourge. Awiti said the
decision was taken to enable them have a generalised and standardised approach
of managing the disease. In his Multisectoral Aids Strategic Plan,
Awiti says they have rolled out a number of plans that will help them deliver
on devolved, integrated and cost-effective HIV services. Elders in the county
advise youths on the community cultural and moral values. “We have a huge task in achieving zero new HIV
infections, zero AIDs-related deaths and zero HIV stigma. But I urge residents,
stakeholders and partners to double their efforts in prevention,” Awiti says. The Turkish government donated 15 fishing
boats to women at Rambira beach in Karachuonyo in an effort to combat sex trade
among the fisher folk. “These are efforts to eradicate the
culture of ‘sex for fish’, so women can have the dignity they deserve in the
society,” Awiti said. On May 7, Homa Bay received six Viral Load
machines donated by the Medicine Sans Frontiers. Awiti says the machines are used
for testing HIV concentration in blood. “Nobody should die of HIV and related
diseases. Let our people make good use of the machines,” he said. Infographic GROWING SCOURGE HIV
prevalence in Homa Bay 2013: 25.4% 2015: 25.7% 2017: 26.0%  Births
data 583: Maternal deaths per 100k live births 70: Traditional Birth Attendants 2/5: Women have given birth at TBA  Habits
raising rate Throwing of ARVs Sex-for-fish trade Delivering at TBAs Affairs with boda boda riders  Interventions Launch of Homa Bay Multisectoral Strategic
Plan Turkish donation of 15 boats to help women
fish Six Viral Load machines donated to county Elders involved the fight against HIV  “Nobody should die of HIV and other related
diseases.” Governor Cyprian Awiti