Police have dismissed Nairobi governor Mike Sonko's claims that his life is in danger after the withdrawal of some of his bodyguards. Sonko has been operating from his Mau Hill home in Machakos since last Wednesday, after his bodyguards were whittled down from 26 to five set for all governors. He has been conducting the county business, including cabinet meetings, at his home. “We are in
Machakos where we have been holding our meetings. The
issue here is about safety. The governor fears for his life,” one
of the County Executive Committee members said. Read: Sonko claims life in danger days after bodyguard killed Pictures of the governor with CECs and MCAs at his home emerged on Monday and yesterday. The government last
week reduced Sonko's guards in what it said is a policy to
rationalise police officers attached to all VIPs. Yesterday, Sonko did not respond to inquiries on his relocation. Police
spokesman Charles Owino said IG Joseph Boinnet was implementing the
government policy of freeing 5,000 police officers attached to VIPs. Owino said they have not received any complaints from the governor regarding the scaling down of his bodyguards, which he reiterated has affected all the 47 county
governors. “Is Machakos now
safer? I don't think the governor would have any grounds to complain
about his security because all the governors are entitled to five
body guards and that is the number he has,” Owino said. “If he feels they
are not enough then it will be up to him to convince the IG and the
National Security Committee that he needs more. And this will be an
uphill task,” he added. His statement echoed Interior and Coordination CS Fred Matiangi's statement on Monday that no governor needed to be guarded by 26 policemen. "It's sheer madness to move a whole police station to your office," he said. Yesterday, his spokesman Mwenda Njoka described as "theatrics” the
governor's claim that his life was in danger. “Has Kiraitu
Murungi (Meru)) come to Nairobi or Hassan Joho (Mombasa) gone to
Kilifi because their bodyguards were reduced? It is the government
policy that we are going to reduce VIP protection by 50 per cent,”
he said. Last Friday, Sonko linked the scaling down of his security personnel to a senior
government official who he claimed had threatened his life. "There is no way he can threaten the life of a Governor elected by
the people," he said.  "Wacha achukue security ... hakuna mtu
atakufa ..." he said in an interview with Citizen TV on Friday. Then, he said he had no problem with the withdrawal of his security and that he will not question anyone as the goal is to serve Kenyans. Also read: 'Miguna will help me fight cartels': Sonko defends nomination Click here for the latest political news