Human trafficking between Africa and Europe affects thousands of young girls and women each year. In her fictional novel, On Black Sister’s Street, Nigerian writer Chika Unigwe creates a poignant account of four such women. Ama, Joyce, Efe and Sisi are African prostitutes from very different backgrounds working in the Belgian city of Antwerp to support families in their homeland. The women pose seductively inside windows in the red-light district to attract male customers. They share a flat with Madam, their employer, a savvy but heartless businesswoman who confiscates their passports as security. Their house is on a road called Zwartezusterstraat, which translates as ‘black sister street’. Then one of the women is murdered. This tragic incident draws together the other three as they seek solace and friendship. They begin to tell the harrowing stories of their past and the circumstances that landed them in this unsavoury profession. Sisi, the main character in the novel, graduated from university with high expectations of a good life. Young Efe left a child at home and harbours a dogged drive to succeed. Beautiful Joyce grew up in a war-torn region and will not say her real name. Ama was raised in an abusive home, is always angry and longs to know who her father is. The women came to Belgium through the machinations of the same ruthless Nigerian pimp called Dele, a man they owe a lot of money so they cannot escape their situation any time soon.  On Black Sister’s Street gives insight into the lives of hapless African women. They end up in Europe on the promise of jobs and better lives, fuelled on by desperate conditions at home. I liked Unigwe’s undiluted way of telling the sordid story of sex workers while managing to inject humorous anecdotes. It makes us questions the lengths to which we will go for freedom and survival. The conclusion of the book was a bit predictable and rushed, but still I found myself rooting for these desperate women. Unigwe’s characters are people of courage and resilience, they feel real and relatable. This is probably because she spent many hours on the streets of Belgium convincing prostitutes to tell her their story and using this as the basis of her narrative. There is hardly a decent man in the book. They are stereotypically portrayed as callous, incompetent and out to exploit unfortunate women in their egocentric ways. In this respect, the cast of characters is imbalanced. Sprinkled throughout the book are pidgin and Igbo words that bring some authenticity to the dialogue but can be interruptive for non-native speakers. The story moves quite quickly. The issue of global sex trafficking could have been explored more but nevertheless, it is an inspiring narrative. This is a debut novel for Unigwe. The book won the 2012 Nigeria Prize for Literature, valued at USD$100,000, and she has been called one of Africa’s top writers.  Star Rating: 4/5 