Former Transport Cabinet Secretary Michael Kamau has been summoned before an anti-corruption court to answer to abuse of office charges. Milimani chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti order Kamau to appear in court on Wednesday next week after failed to show up yesterday. Kamau was expected in court alongside two co-accused to face fraud charges. The charges are related to the Sh33 million tender for the construction of the Kamukuywa-Kaptama–Kapsokwony road The two co-accused Mwangi Maingi and Nicholas Ndung'u denied two counts of abuse of office and flouting tender rules. They were released on a Sh500,000 bail each pending trial. Read: EACC raids ex-CS Michael Kamau's home over Sh33 million tender Kamau was suspended from the Cabinet on March 28, 2015 being being charged with abuse of office on June 4, the same year. Kamau appealed his prosecution, saying the Ethiocs and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) was not properly constituted when it recommended charges against him. He got a reprieve in July last year after the Court of Appeal terminated criminal proceedings against him. The court said the decision to charge Kamau was illegal and quashed his trial over allegations of abuse of office. Judges Milton Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M'inoti ordered that criminal proceedings against Kamau be stopped. The judges said the EACC was not properly constituted when it investigated the former CS and recommended his prosecution. "The appeal succeeded following this technicality," the judges said. However, the court did not stop the Director of Public prosecutions from charging Kamau afresh. DPP Noordin Haji has since directed the former CS be charged again. “We are applying for summons against Michael Kamau so that he can appear in court to answer to the charges he is facing,” senior assistant DPP Alloys Kemo told the court yesterday. Ogoti directed Kamau to present himself without fail on May 30. On Monday, EACC detectives raided his home in Karen but failed to arrest him. Kamau is accused of arbitrary authorisation of redesign of the road. The offence was committed betwen July 2007 and March 2008 when he served as Transport PS. The ex-minister will now defend himself against allegations that he, while he served as a PS in the same ministry arbitrary authorized the re design of the road. He faces another count, where the prosecution alleges that he failing to comply with chapter 5 of the government Financial Regulations and procedure by ignoring the design that had been approved. They each denied abusing their office by authorizing the re designing of the road which had been designed by Engiconsult Consulting Engineers at a cost of Sh 33,303, 600 without involving the firm resulting to the loss of public funds. The offences were committed between July 15 2007 and march 2008 More on this: Former CS Kamau loses bid to terminate corruption case Mwangi also denied tabling a misleading document to the ministerial committee. The prosecution was not opposed to their release on bail but asked the court to consider the seriousness of the offence committed. Kamau had previously been charged together with five others but he successfully fought his prosecution on a technical issue, by arguing that the EACC was not properly constituted when his prosecution was recommended. A three-judge bench, comprising of justices Milton Makhandia, William Ouko and Kathurima M’Inoti agreed with him that commission was not properly constituted at the time it forwarded his name to the DPP . The judges however did not stop EACC from reviving the case, an opportunity they have taken to drag him back to court. The ex-minister will now defend himself against allegations that he, while he served as a PS in the same ministry arbitrary authorized the re design of the road. He faces another count, where the prosecution alleges that he failing to comply with chapter 5 of the government Financial Regulations and procedure by ignoring the design that had been approved. Click here for the latest political news