Ask any Democrat and many independents what they think about US President Donald J Trump and you’ll invariably get a response to the effect that he is unfit for office. Some will also say he should be impeached going by the drip, drip of revelations of criminality that’s already snarled a number of his cronies and now inching closer to him. However, ask any astute Democrat what should happen to Trump, even if criminal wrongdoing is found by the Special Counsel Robert Mueller looking into his conduct: Every one of them would tell you it’s better for Democrats — and therefore the country — to simply have Democrats takeover either the House or Senate or both, and render impotent Trump’s last two years in office than trying to impeach him. There are two primary reasons for this: First, if all the wrongdoing Mueller finds out is Trump is sex-related, then it’s unlikely, even if the Democrats takeover the House, to remove him from office on that ground alone. In other words, the saints in the House would vote to impeach Trump essentially on the conduct that’s not in by itself criminal (paying off his numerous mistresses to shut-up about the affairs and flings) but the players in the US Senate will say not so fast as they did in the Clinton impeachment trial. Second, many don’t think impeaching Trump is a good idea. If Trump is impeached, Vice-President Mike Pence will automatically take-over for the remainder of the term. He will also be entitled to vie and serve as President for eight years, if he’s elected and re-elected. There are two frightening things about this prospect to those who can’t stand Trump. One, having a Republican serving as President for more than eight years after the Trump mess and, two, having Pence as that Republican. Trump may be the flawed person and clueless leader he is but he’s nothing compared to Pence. While Trump is fumbling left and right, and taking the country and the world in a dizzying ride with his unpredictable antics and narcissistic freelancing at the White House, if he were to be impeached and Pence were to succeed him, the VP will be very effective in both enacting legislation favoured by the right wing and undoing Barack Obama’s legacy, twice as effectively as Trump and as fast. For these two reasons, Democrats don’t want to see Trump impeached and would rather have him serving as wounded President than have Pence as his replacement. The same way Democrats don’t want Pence as President, so too does a significant portion of Kenyans who do not want William Ruto as the head of state. To be sure, there’s no reason we know of that would lead to Uhuru leaving office prematurely leading to Ruto’s automatic ascendancy to the presidency. Rather, the only way Ruto succeeds Uhuru as President, we know for sure, is if the Vifaranga Vya Komputa of 2022 do their wicked deed and make that possible. Otherwise, if the election of 2022 is to be strictly determined by the free, open and transparent expression of the will of the people, Ruto will have a hard time coming third. There are many reasons that would be the case but two that stand out the most are, one Ruto does not have even half of the popular support Raila Odinga has across the country, yet Agwambo has note made it to be President. Two, Ruto’s vast accumulation of wealth and so fast leaves bad taste in many voters even among those who may otherwise support him with their attitude being, you’ve bilked the public till, now go enjoy it. It would be a monumental task to overcome these two factors and, of course, there are always the aforementioned vifarangas, which the handshake is intended to neuter.  Omwenga is a legal analyst and political commentator based in the United States 