There was drama at KNUT headquarters in Nairobi after a group of union members forcibly swore in Hesbon Otieno as the Secretary-General. The group, who are members of the union's National Executive Council, dramatically swore in Otieno in full glare of journalist and cameras. The "mock swearing-in" saw the one member leading the ceremony while the rest chanted after him happily. Otieno held a Bible in one hand with a male teacher aiding him to lift his hand while they all narrated the oath in unison. Read:Sossion obtains court orders stopping his removal as Knut SG The NEC had convened a meeting today and alerted members that security had been enhanced. The members maintained that Sossion, who was nominated to Parliament by ODM, should relinquish his post and focus on politics. "We are here to officially take office," said Otieno. The group said teachers' issues cannot be mixed with politics, therefore, Otieno should take over and serve teachers without divided attention. Read:Stop plans to oust Sossion, Atwoli asks State On Thursday, Sossion stated that for an elected member of the union to be suspended, the body has to receive a written notification stating clearly the agenda. “I wish to state that I am still devoted to continuing with my work as the Secretary general of KNUT and I will do it without fear or favour. As the Chief Executive of this union, the custodian of administrative documents including the constitution, the procedures, all the resolutions of the ADC are under my custody and I am prepared to differ with anybody and stand alone to defend resolutions of our members,” Sossion said. Read:Sossion stays put amid calls to leave SG office On Wednesday, The High court issued orders temporarily barring the registrar of trade unions and TSC from removing or de-registering Wilson Sossion as Knut secretary general. Judge Maureen Onyango of the Employment and Labour Relations court certified the matter urgent. She ordered the registrar of trade unions, TSC and Knut deputy SG Hesbon Otieno to file their responses before May 9 and appear for hearing on May 10. "A temporary prohibition order is hereby issued barring the respondents from registering, appointing, recognising, putting or placing any person as Knut secretary general in place of Sossion pending the hearing of the application," the judge said. She also ordered an injunction restraining Otieno or any other person from purporting to act in place of Sossion as Knut secretary general. This is with respect to carrying out or performing any acts or function conducted or decided by the secretary general of KNUT.  Click here for the latest political news