The probe into the controversial Sh3.3 billion compensation for land occupied by two public schools in Nairobi took a new twist after relevant state institutions refused to take responsibility. The Education ministry yesterday denied writing to the National Land Commission to initiate compulsory acquisition of 13.8 acres Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School have been sitting on for over 30 years. Education PS Belio Kipsang told the Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee probing the matter the NLC chaired by Mohamad Swazuri initiated the process by writing to the ministry in 2016 regarding the landowners’ complaints. Must read: Schools don’t own Ruaraka land, says NLC Kipsang told the committee chaired by Senator Moses Kajwang (Homa Bay) Swazuri informed them landowners wanted to be compensated for the two public schools occupying their land. “We got the complaint from NLC in September 13, 2016. The request for the payment of Sh3.2 billion compensation was initiated by NLC after finding that it was private land,” Kipsang said. Already Sh1.5 billion was paid to Afrison Export Import Ltd and Huelands Ltd. Kipsang’s position contradicts Swazuri’s who told the same committee last month that NLC commenced the acquisition process following a directive by former Education CS Fred Matiang’i in March 17, 2017. Kipsang confirmed the exchange of letters with NLC but insisted that the ministry’s concern was for all public schools to have title deeds. “We did not request any ownership prior to Ruaraka land acquisition. When NLC presented a bill of Sh3.2 billion we could not instruct National Treasury to initiate the payment but we wrote to the Attorney General informing him of the documentation we had and his opinion,” he said. “We have done a number of similar cases with NLC even today to assist in assessing the status of public school lands to be titled.” Lands CS Faridah Karoney who earlier appeared before the committee confirmed that the government did not follow due process in acquiring the land. Karoney also said Swazuri and Education ministry officials are responsible for allowing improper payment of Sh1.5 billion in compensation. The government could have done better on the process of purchasing the land, the CS said. Also read  : State flouted procedures in Ruaraka land purchase - CS Karoney Click here for the latest political news