Four North Rift governors have resolved to work together to sustain peace in Kerio Valley where banditry has declined in the past one month. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc, said investors are interested in setting up new projects. He said last week he met his counterparts from Baringo, West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet’s Alex Tolgos. They agreed to ensure communities live in harmony. They also want negative cultural practices such as cattle rustling discarded. Last week, the governors participated in the Baringo First Lady Peace Run - their first joint activity aimed at campaigning for peace and unity. Mandago, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo and Stanley Kiptis (Baringo ) were present. Mandago asked officers in the areas facing insecurity to work closely with locals. He appealed to residents to share information if the war on crime is to be won. “Security personnel need to create good relations with communiites for swift updates and intelligence. It will be easier to deal with crime, including banditry,” he said. Mandago also asked leaders to inform residents on the importance of adopting development and technology so as to eradicate outdated cultural practices. The peace run was initiated by Kiptis’ wife Ivy. She came up with the peace run and other activities that would help sensitise communities on peace and unity. “Banditry has affected development in our region and we will do everything possible to contribute to sustainability of peace programmes,” Mandago said. Governor Kiptis asked leaders in cattle rustling prone areas to play a key role in finding a lasting solution. “The inter-agencies security team should also work in tandem and coordinate to ensure we end the vice,” he said. Kiptis also supported better relations between security agencies and the public to fight crime. “We will work with all leaders in Baringo to build and equip schools in volatile areas to make sure children get education,” he said. Lonyangapuo echoed the sentiments. He termed cattle rustling a stone-age practice that has no place in modern times. “Let’s deal with this problem once and for all, and avoid pointing fingers at each other. We should make banditry our common problem and deal with it jointly,” he said. In February, hundreds of pupils in Kerio Valley held demonstrations over escalating insecurity that led to the closure of 20 schools. The children, with their teachers, converged at Tot primary school to seek audience with government officials over the insecurity problem. The affected primary schools are Chesegon, Cheptulel, Arpolo, Kokwo Meses, Anet, Tilingwo, Cheratak and Chemale. Also hit are Cheptulel Girls, Cheptulel Boys School and Chesumbur Mixed Secondary. Click here for the latest political news