An old friend happened upon this column and asked me about it. ‘What’s this ‘Reflections’ about?’ he asked. To which I responded, ‘The column reflections is basically musings on everything, from politics to why roses are red and violets are blue.’ ‘Hmm!’ said my friend. ‘You always were thinking all the time.’ Quickly getting over my surprise that my friend knew what the word musing means, I agreed. I do think a lot. Always have, always will. In fact, growing up, I was considered a problem child because whenever anyone told me something, I had to know the why and the how before I moved that information to my brain’s inbox. And if you couldn’t explain what you were telling me well enough and to my satisfaction, I’d file that information under bollocks, where it would stay filed until such a time I would know the why and the how of it. What can I say? I was a kid. My filing system has changed somewhat since then, but I am still averse to accepting without understanding and allowing other people’s thinking to become my own thinking. There’s nothing off about musing, or seeking the why and the how. I’d even go as far to say if we, as a people, mused more, put things we’re told through the why and how test, we would have far less problems as a country. Here’s an easy why and how. Why are the new bus lanes, the red-marked lanes, situated on the innermost lane? And, how will taking out a lane, leaving fewer lanes, on a busy highway ease traffic? I’d like you to forget for a moment the explanations given for this bus lanes and think. Now, by a show of hands, and if you’ve actually driven in Nairobi traffic, how many ‘think’ a bus lane on lane 4 is a brilliant idea? Another topic we should put through the why and how test is this talk by politicians, and people in the politics industry, about changing the constitution. Why amend it? Well, according to politicians, a change in constitution will ensure inclusivity by broadening the executive (and I suspect other offices) so that every tribe feels represented. How? Or let me put that another way. Imagine me and you, the reader, travelling in a matatu one evening. Suddenly, three young men with pistols stand up and the matatu takes a detour into a dark narrow lane. Once the matatu stops, I suspect the insecurity that will be meted out to me, you and all the other passengers irrespective of tribe or how politically represented we feel will be pretty inclusive. And after the ordeal, when we go to a public hospital seeking medical attention after the pistol whipping, my feeling is we would much rather a broadened medical staff than a broadened political class. This inclusivity word being lobbed at us means politicians’ inclusivity. They’re not talking about everyday people, you and me. We won’t be getting bodyguards too, or access to international medical care. Nor will we be included in the ‘million shillings per month plus car’ grant package. Maybe we do need to amend the constitution (less politicians is a good place start). My only ask is that we, the people, muse on our own, debate amongst ourselves using our own words, and be averse to politicians’ thinking becoming our own thinking.