War. It opens the floodgates of violence
and unlimited brutality. The aftermath is death, displacement, shattered social
fabric and collapse of governance. Somalia in Africa is one of the countries
that know too well the cost of war. A booming Somalia descended into anarchy
after strongman Siad Barre was overthrown in the 1990s. The armed conflicts
pitted warlords and clan militia that led to the collapse of the official
state. All institutions shut down, rendering the once-vibrant country a failed
state. It defied UN and US intervention. For about 10 years from 2006, the Union
of Islamic Courts had control over Mogadishu until it was ousted by Ethiopian
forces with US support. Ethiopia, however, was unable to exert full control,
leaving the country and capital a battleground for the then UN-backed
government and al Shabaab militants. The preceding years saw al Shabaab gain
control of large swathes of Somalia, including its capital Mogadishu and major
sea ports. Piracy bloomed in Gulf of Aden, with the International Maritime
Bureau recording over 200 hijackings annually. The pirates operating in the sea lanes
of the horn of Africa hijacked ships, stole cargo and extorted billions in
ransoms, which in turn financed anarchy, exploiting the collapsed judicial, law
enforcement system and the black market. But the armed conflict and its effects
wasn’t confined to Somalia territory. It was exported to neighbouring countries,
with refugees fleeing the war and al Shabaab militia carrying out attacks in
Kenya and Uganda. International trade and security also suffered a major blow. OPERATION LINDA NCHI Al Shabaab’s frequent abduction of
several foreign tourists and aid workers on Kenyan soil triggered the country
to deploy its troops to Somalia in October 2011, under Operation Linda
Nchi. At the time, only Uganda People's
Defence Forces was in Somalia, controlling less than 10 per cent of Mogadishu.
After Kenya's entry, other neigbouring countries sent in their contingents,
which were later merged to operate under the African Union Mission for Somalia
(Amisom). It is now 10 years since the
operation began, but what used to be a war-torn country is seeing slow but sure
silencing of its guns, with zero incidence of piracy since 2012 after pirates
were vanquished. “This is the first time we are seeing some semblance of development
and institutions forming, and now are even we talking about transition,” said
Major General Tai Gitaui, Amisom’s deputy force commander for
operations and plans. “Improvised Explosive Devices (IED) war is a war of cowards, which we
are seeing much often used by al Shabaab, which means they are losing ground.” Amisom head Francisco Madeira said the
country is moving forward with the help of Amisom forces. “The government that
used to operate from Nairobi and later Baidoa now operates not in secrecy or at
night but openly in Mogadishu today,” he said, adding that even though al
Shabaab sometimes still launches attacks, they were ejected from the city. He said all regional governments are in operation
and in the hands of civilians. Seated in an ancient building where the
Italian governor used to rule Mogadishu is Abdirahman Omar, commonly known as
Eng Yarisow, the Benadir Governor and mayor of Mogadishu. After independence in 1960, Yarisow
recalls, his country was among the greatest on the continent and always
helped in peacekeeping under then Organisation of Africa Unity, now African
Union. But he was forced to flee at the height
of the civil war in 1991. He settled in the UK and built a family and a career.
But in 2008, he returned. He says on his return to Somalia, his
family was hesitant and reluctantly wished him good-luck! “At the moment, no one wanted to work for the government. Looking
back 10 years later, though I miss my family and good job I had, I have no
regrets,” he said. “The country is making huge progress thanks to African forces that
came to help Somalia in this recovery path. It is a show of PanAfricanism.
Without Amisom, we wouldn’t have achieved this progress.” DODGING BULLETS When Yarisow used to work at the Office
of the President, he remembers they would drive through Makkah Mukarram
junction very fast to dodge bullets from al Shabaab’s base a hundred metres
away. “Citizens rejected our invites to the villa
or any government office. Thinking of working for the government was suicidal,
too. Today we are getting many people visiting government offices and
every day many are sending their interests to work for government,” he said. “Over 50 per cent of those who had fled the city to the outskirts are
back and have rebuilt their lives. With the help of Amisom, 80 per cent of
Somalia is now under the government, and now we can even afford to speak about
elections in 2020. This was not possible 10 years ago. Even though we are not
yet there, we are on the right track.” Yarisow said there have been incremental
changes in transparency, accountability and governance system, and for the
first time, Somali's public financial management system has been accepted by
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. This will help it apply for debt relief
and in turn attract investments, Yarisow said. He said despite inability to
collect taxes, there is considerable growth in all sectors of the economy, as
seen in upcoming real estates and the hotel industry. “This is because our people are entrepreneurial and resilient. That’s
why a place al Shabaab has bombed, within a week, a shop will be up and
business going on. This is the strength we are banking on to rebuild Somalia,
as the public continues to denounce al Shabaab and its ideology in entirety,”
he said. Another sector that has seen exponential
growth is education. Before the civil war, there was only one university. It closed
and reopened 20 years later. But today, there are over 100 universities, with
50 located in Mogadishu. The aviation sector has also returned to
government control this year, after being under UN control and run from Nairobi
since the start of the civil war. “Our public beaches are also now operational and we are slowly taking
back the country to its African riviera status it used to be. Our criminal
system is developing but terrorists continue to undermine us, thus lack of
witnesses in courts to help in prosecution, leading to collapse of cases,”
Yarisow said. “Terrorists are desperate and are engaging in insurgencies, trying to
shutter the people's hope. They have resorted to attacking innocent civilians
to earn headlines to show their associates that they still have a foothold here.
But these are their end days.” The mayor said liberalisation of Somalia
and its subsequent reconstruction could have been much faster if Amisom was
given all the needed logistical support from the UN and the international
community. “If resources similar to those that are being pumped into Iraq and
Afghanistan were brought here, the war could have been won long ago. We need
logistical enablers,” Yarisow said. In Dhobley, a football tournament is
organised frequently by the Kenya Defence Forces, aimed at promoting the
military civilian relations. “To us this sports is recreation and opportunity to nurture our
talents, interact and unite to confront the common enemy. This was not possible
when al Shabaab used to control these areas,” Rangers Club team captain
Abdirazak Mohamed said. “Life is back here. We now have formal education ongoing and
development, which the KDF is playing a key part in,” Dhobley DC Siyat Hassan
said.