President Uhuru Kenyatta is finally set to flag off the Early Oil Pilot Scheme (EOPS) on June 3, following a deal on revenue allocation that has stalled Kenya’s plans for close to a year. The national government will take 75 per cent of the proceeds, Turkana county 20 per cent and the local community will get five per cent of the proceeds. The deal has paved the way for Parliament to pass the Petroleum Bill, which has been the only impediment to the EOPS. Turkana elders had vowed no oil would leave the county until favourable terms are agreed. Residents held protests against the Bill that gave the county 15 per cent and the national government 80 per cent.The new deal has been accepted by all the three stakeholders. “We now have an understanding that can put Kenya on the map of oil exporting countries. We will intensify our exploration, efforts not just in Turkana, but in the rest of the country now that we have a legal instrument that can help guide how oil and gas will be handled in our republic,” Uhuru said last week. The EOPS is meant to test the export process, and will see 70,000 barrels of oil transported to Mombasa by road before being exported for sale on the international market. Tullow Oil is storing the 70,000 barrels in its rented facilities in Lokichar. It will set up a permanent facility once a pipeline linking Lokichar to Mombasa is completed in 2021. The firm recently confirmed that it will take 60 days to transport the 70,000 barrels to Mombasa. Seven trucks will be used to transport 2,000 barrels daily. The oil will be stored in tanks at the state-owned Kenya Petroleum Refinery Limited as it awaits export to the world market. The Kenya Pipeline Company has leased the KPRL facility which has been dormant since 2013. The EOPS will not be expected to earn profit for Kenya, as its main aim is to get the government acquainted with the oil trading systems and processes. Kenya expects to get Sh148 billion annually from oil exports once commercial extraction and export kick off, at the current price of $78 per barrel. French oil giant Total is constructing the Sh210 billion pipeline. Kenya was forced to build its own pipeline after neighbouring Uganda opted to route its oil through a pipeline to Tanzania instead of Mombasa. Mining CS John Munyes in March ruled out revival of the KPRL refinery. Hence, despite mining its own oil, Kenya will continue to import its petroleum for domestic consumption. The prices of petroleum products are unlikely to come down. Tullow’s projects that it will be able to drill enough oil to allow Kenya export between 60,000 and 80,000 barrels per day once its permanent equipment is installed on site. The output could however be increased to 100,000 barrels per day.