North Korea has
scheduled the dismantlement of its nuclear bomb test site for
sometime between May 23 and 25 in order to uphold its pledge to
discontinue nuclear tests, the country's state media reported on
Saturday a month ahead of a historic summit. The official Korean Central New Agency said dismantlement of
the Punggye-ri nuclear test ground would involve collapsing all
of its tunnels with explosions, blocking its entrances, and
removing all observation facilities, research buildings and
security posts. "The Nuclear Weapon Institute and other concerned
institutions are taking technical measures for dismantling the
northern nuclear test ground ... in order to ensure transparency
of discontinuance of the nuclear test," KCNA said. US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong
Un will hold talks in Singapore on June 12, the first-ever
meeting between a sitting US president and a North Korean
leader. Trump's Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Friday that
North Korea can look forward to "a future brimming with peace
and prosperity" if it agrees to quickly give up its nuclear
weapons. Trump welcomed the North Korean announcement. "North Korea has announced that they will dismantle Nuclear
Test Site this month, ahead of the big Summit Meeting on June
12th," he tweeted. "Thank you, a very smart and gracious
gesture! Thank you, a very smart and gracious gesture!" South Korea's presidential office echoed the sentiment on
Sunday, saying it shows Pyongyang's willingness to denuclearise
through actions beyond words. However, in spite of its pledge to stop testing, North Korea
has given no indication it is willing to go beyond statements of
broad conceptual support for denuclearisation by unilaterally
abandoning a nuclear weapons program its ruling family has seen
as crucial to its survival. In announcing the plan to shut Punggye-ri last month, Kim
said North Korea no longer needed to conduct tests because it
had completed its goal of developing nuclear weapons. KCNA said journalists, including from the United States and
South Korea, would be invited to cover the event, to "show in a
transparent manner the dismantlement of the northern nuclear
test ground to be carried out". The exact date of the closure
will depend on weather conditions, the agency said. To accommodate the travelling journalists, North Korea said
various measures would be taken including "opening territorial
air space". NO MENTION OF EXPERTS South Korean officials said in April that North Korea also
planned to invite experts from the United States and South Korea
for the Punggye-ri shutdown, but KCNA made no mention of this. Last month, South Korean President Moon Jae-in had asked the
United Nations to help verify the shutdown. South Korea's deputy nuclear envoy Jeong Yeon-doo will visit
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in Vienna this
week to discuss the "complete denuclearisation of North Korea"
the foreign ministry said on Sunday. All of North Korea's six known nuclear bomb tests have taken
place at Punggye-ri, in the northeastern of North Korea where a
system of tunnels have been dug under Mount Mantap. North Korea has a total of four tunnels and while two were
shut down following previous nuclear tests, one remained usable
and the other was under construction until recently, a South
Korean presidential official told reporters on Sunday under
condition of anonymity. According to Chinese academic reports, North Korea's most
recent nuclear test in September of what Pyongyang said was a
hydrogen bomb, was so large it triggered a collapse inside the
mountain, rendering the entire site unusable for future tests. But US intelligence officials have said it remains usable
and could be reactivated "in a relatively short period of time"
if it was closed. "I think they’re done testing. They have what they need so
the way in which they collapse the tunnels is just show," said
Melissa Hanham, senior research associate at the James Martin
Center for Nonproliferation Studies. Jeffrey Lewis, director of the East Asia Nonproliferation
Program at California's Middlebury Institute of International
Studies, said in a blog post this week that recent satellite
images had shown the removal of some buildings from the site. On Saturday, he told Reuters that closure of Punggye-ri did
not mean much in terms of disarmament, given that the United
States, for example, stopped nuclear testing in 1992. "It would, however, require North Korea to clear out the
test tunnels and rebuild any infrastructure that might be
removed — or dig new tunnels at the site or elsewhere. So, it’s
a good confidence building measure, but not necessarily a sign
of irreversible disarmament." Siegfried Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos
National Laboratory in the United States and a leading expert on
North Korea's nuclear program, said collapsing the Punggye-ri
tunnels would be "a big and positive step," given his belief
that North Korea still required more nuclear and missile tests
to reach the US mainland with a nuclear-tipped missile. However, he said the other crucial steps North Korea needed
to take to demilitarise its nuclear program were to shut its
plutonium production reactor, and open its uranium processing to
inspection. Also read: US offers to help rebuild N Korea economy if it denuclearises Click here for the latest local political news 