Majority leader Aden Duale has said that no NYS scandal suspect will go unpunished. Duale on Tuesday said investigative agencies must move swiftly and have those implicated in the fraud brought to book. "The war against corruption must continue relentlessly and culprits held to account. We cannot have a country where few individuals deliberately squander public money and go scot-free," he said. Duale was speaking at Parliament buildings. “The investigative authorities established under the constitution have the mandate to have those implicated in the graft face justice in court. I can confidently say parliament will always support this cause,” he said. Duale said it was unfortunate that before Kenyans were informed of what really happened in the first scam, another looting had happened at the same institution. He said it is a clear indication that the individuals implicated have no regards for taxpayers money or they deliberately did it because they know at the end of it they will have their way. "What we are simply saying as parliamentarians is that someone has to be accountable for their actions. If we do not seriously crack on this fraud, another major will explode somewhere and thus these individuals must serve as an example,' he said. Duale's sentiments came in as more than 20 of the more than 50 suspects arrested over the saga were arraigned in a Nairobi court. The suspects were brought to Milimani Law Courts in eight vehicles— three Land Rovers and five Subarus. Key suspects include Youth and Gender Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo and NYS Director General Richard Ndubai. Read:List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal Omollo is to be charged with abuse of office for receiving and forwarding fake LPOs for the National Youth Service. NYS Director General Richard Ndubai is accused of preparing and forwarding fake LPOs that were later used to pay fictitious suppliers. See:PS Omollo, NYS boss accused of handling fake LPOs Central Bank boss Patrick Njoroge has also said banks implicated in the scandal violated the law and will not go unpunished. He said CBK is working with the Department of Criminal Investigations to probe the banks that may be complicit in transacting the looted funds. "It is unconscionable that such losses of public funds would take place at this moment and age," Njoroge said. Read:Banks in NYS scandal violated procedures, face DCI probe - CBK boss Also read:How NYS suspects tried to block arrest Click here for the latest political news 