Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula has praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for refusing to support major changes to the Constitution. A constitutional referendum is being championed by NASA leader Raila Odinga. On Friday Uhuru said there’s no need to change the Constitution if it will only benefit a few individuals. “The President has done well to refuse to be dragged into 2022 power politics,” Wetang’ula said on Saturday in Tongaren. “The speed at which some leaders have started pushing for the change of law after the handshake shows they have ulterior motives.” Uhuru and Raila agreed to work together on March 9 and formed a team to decide how to heal the nation and solve many problems. Uhuru said his main focus is to drive the Big Four agenda in order to better lives of Kenyans. “I have no time running around telling people to change the Constitution. It won’t solve their problems, we’d do better to engage them in development issues,” he said. Raila is agitating to change the Constitution, instituting a parliamentary system of government and introducing a third tier of devolution Wetang’ula said Uhuru has realised he was being manipulated by an individual, who wants to remain relevant politically, despite “his star dwindling every day”. “We don’t have to rush to amend the Constitution because of absorbing somebody in the government. We have to critically analyse various issues before we think of a referendum,” he said. Wetang’ula said even if Kenyans agree to change the Constitution, it can’t take place soon because there is no quorum at the IEBC. “A majority of commissioners have resigned from the IEBC leaving its services paralysed. The law states they should be five to pass their own budget but currently they are only four,” he said. Last month, three IEBC commissioners resigned, saying chairman Wafula Chebukati had failed to give proper leadership.They are vice chairperson Consolata Maina, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya. Mwachanya, reading a statement on behalf of her colleagues, said, “With the mistrust at the commission, we feel that our positions as commissioners are no longer tenable. We regret to tender our resignations with immediate effect.” In October last year, commissioner Roselyn Akombe resigned from the IEBC, saying she had received death threats.