Maize farmers are staring at annual post harvest losses valued at between Sh10 to Sh20 within the next 32 years, research shows. This is equivalent to a loss of 7.69 million bags of maize every year going by the current average price of Sh2,600 per 90 kg bag. Climate Smart Agriculture, a study by the World Bank and International Centre for Tropical Agriculture attributes the expected losses to change in temperature levels that will lead to increased rainfalls. Temperatures are expected to increase by 1.5 to two degrees while the rains will go up by 89 Millimeters. This is more than the current heavy rainfall of more than 50mm being experienced in parts of the country including Western, Central and North Rift Valley, Northern and Central regions. The post harvest loses are expected to see maize production decrease by 12 per cent to 23 per cent. This is set to trigger high food prices that will rise by 75 to 90 per cent by 2055. “Maize, which is the preferred crop in many farming systems in Kenya, is not well adapted for current climatic conditions, nor is it well-suited under the predicted future climate conditions,” the study states. As at December last year, maize imports had increased eight fold from 149 thousand tonnes in 2016 to 1,328 thousand tonnes, as reported by the 2018 Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. This was due to a dip in production to 35.4 million bags from 37.8 million bags caused by drought, the fall army worm and crop diseases. According to Tegemeo Insitute of Agriculture Policy and Development, atleast Sh12.28 billion was incurred as post harvest losses last year. This was attributed to pests, handling methods and use of below standards storage facilities. To mitigate the losses, International Centre for Tropical Agriculture said that the government needs to make significant investments in water management techniques (irrigation and water storage structures). Further, the centre says that the climatic conditions open up opportunities for crop diversification and options for expanding agricultural activities to places where cultivation is not currently possible. Answering questions on Food security and the Big Four Agenda, Planning Principal secretary Julius Muia said that the government intends to set aside 700,000 acres of land in the next four years that will be used for large scale production. The land will be used for water harvesting and farming of maize, rice and potatoes. “We will deal with the harvest and post harvest losses through appropriate technologies,” he said. The plan is part of the governments Big four Agenda which includes providing food and nutrition security by 2022. Speaking to the Star on Phone, Director of Crops under the State department of Agriculture Johnstone Irungu said the government intends to use existing warehouses to curb the losses from increasing. “We will use dry facilities, encourage crop diversification and train farmers on effective post harvest handling to reduce the losses,” Irungu said. Some of the crops fronted for diversification include Maize, Rice, Potatoes, Sorghum, Millet and Cassava among others.