The family of an 11-year-old girl swept away by floods in Nakuru on Saturday was crestfallen after the body was not found on the third day. Hellen Kanini's relatives have been spending sleepless nights. They are determined to find the body and give her their daughter a decent send-off in Mau Narok. The search began at Geoffrey Kamau way bridge on Sunday. Only the body of the missing girl's cousin, Eunice Wairimu, 13, was found. Wairimu was swept away by floods on the same night. The body was found in a storm water tunnel about 4km from the bridge at Bondeni. Efforts by a Kenya Wildlife Service search team to find the body on the shores of Lake Nakuru proved futile. “A team of 10 has been looking for the girl. They suspected the body may have carried by floodwaters down to the shores of the lake. But they did not find it,” Michael Sigei, the park's senior sergeant, said. The family was traveling from Elementaita for dowry payment. The missing girl's father, Joseph Matoima, said the family had gone to pay dowry at his wife's home. “As we were travelling back, there was a heavy traffic jam. There was a traffic snarl up on the footbridge before entering Nakuru town. Vehicles started hooting. We realised there were flash floods. Water started entering the vehicle," he said. "I was with a neighbour, my father Isaac Omwenga, my two children and another belonging to my sister. It was difficult to open the door because of the water's pressure. When we finally did, we got out. We wanted to carry the children to safety. But the water pushed the kids through the window and into a tunnel,” a sobbing Matoima said. His neighbour Nderitu Kamotho saved his six year old daughter. Matoima tried to rescue the other two kids, but the waves were too strong. “Kamotho has held the hands of the little angles, but he too was almost swept away. He let go of them and raised his hands as he sunk. People rushed to save him thinking they were kids. He had swallowed a lot of water and was taken to a nearby hospital for first aid,” Matoima said. “It's unfortunate we have lost such young children. They were the firstborns in our families,” Salome Gesare, Wairimu's mum, said. The families have been camping at the tunnel. They have been trying to unclogging a tunnel they suspect could be trapping the body. They are disappointed in the manner in which the issue is being handled. The family said county executive for Infrastructure had promised to send a team to assist in the search mission. They are now searching alone. They also took issue with failure to unclog blocked storm water drains leaded to the Saturday night flooding underneath Geoffrey Kamau Way Bridge – the gateway to Nakuru town. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui promised to send a team of engineers to unclog the tunnel. He toured the areas affected by floods in Kivumbini Ward and Nakuru East subcounty on Monday.. By the time of going to the press, the tunnel had not been clogged. The families and friends were racing against time to get the job done. They called the governor to ensure the county disaster management team is involved. Family members said they are traumatised since tragedy happened. The political director in the governor’s office, Beatrice Nyawira, said they have been liaising with the affected family since Saturday. She said the county government was doing everything it can to ensure the boy is found. Related : Five families stranded after floods submerge Limuru underpass Click here for the latest political news