Knut Secretary General Wilson Sossion was on Monday locked out of his Nairobi office by people he said were goons hired by his colleagues. The Nominated MP met about 10 bouncers when he arrived and was told there were strict instructions against his access to the office. Sossion pleaded with the men in front of journalists but none of the them spoke to him. He told the reporters that he had complied with a court order that lifted his suspension ahead of an inter-parties hearing on May 10. Read: Sossion obtains court orders stopping his removal as Knut SG Sossion noted that he can only be blocked from the headquarters by people who obtain fresh orders from the Employment and Labour Relations Court. "I want Kenyan teachers to see the goons hired by my colleagues whom I have, over the years, helped get the positions they have now. They are not attached to any security firm and do not look like security personnel," he said. Sossion pointed the finger at acting Chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi and acting SG Hesbon Otieno. "This is a slap on the Judiciary," he said. "It is evident that the labour movement in this country is under attack  through such conspiracies. I am not surprised by this ... it is betrayal from within but I will not leave because only the teachers who voted for me have the powers to remove me." He added: "Teachers across the country are suffering because of the money policies that have been introduced through contracts and appraisals. Kenyan teachers are the lowest paid public servants." More on this: [VIDEO] Standoff as teachers stage sit-in at Knut headquarters to eject Sossion The SG, however, dismissed claims that he has been at logger heads with the union's National Executive Council. "Over 140 delegates endorsed my service until 2021.Only a few individuals within the NEC are being used by the government, through the Teachers Service Commission, to fight me." Sossion said he will, therefore, seek court redress on the contempt. Regarding mass transfer of teachers, he said the position he took against delocalisation is what attracted wars for his ouster. Also read: Sossion stays put, extends olive branch to 'enemies' within and outside Knut "JUBILEE TO BLAME" On Sunday night, Sossion reiterated that he will not resign and blamed the government for his woes. "I know the government is very much involved in this and they are very open about it ... 'that we do not want Sossion at Knut, he must leave. But he added: "I am not leaving. Only teachers can make me leave." The Nominated MP went on to say: "Stephen Kioni lost the out of betrayal from within and so history repeats itself. This doesn't surprise me." Sossion was voted out last week and Otieno appointed in acting capacity. Officials say the process was proper but in his interview with NTV, the SG noted that 440 delegates, who attended their meeting at the KICD on April 30, could have recommended his removal by the NEC but instead overruled the "attempted coup". He noted the minutes for this gathering were presented in court. Last Wednesday, the High Court temporarily barred the registrar of trade unions and the Teachers Service Commission from removing or de-registering Sossion. Judge Maureen Onyango of the Employment and Labour Relations court certified the matter as urgent. She ordered the registrar of trade unions, the TSC and Otieno to file their responses before May 9 and appear for a hearing the next day. On Friday, union Chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi denied claims of a witch-hunt against Sossion. "We want to make it clear that we did not suspend Sossion because he is a MP. There were proper reasons," he said. Read: Sossion to stay on as Knut boss for now, court rules Also read: Drama as section of KNUT members swear in Hesbon Otieno as Secretary-General Click here for the latest political news