The court has temporarily barred Energy Regulatory Commission from conducting a crackdown on building owners who have not installed solar water heaters on their properties. Nakuru high court issued a conservative order sort by a property owner pending the hearing of the suit. "pending the hearing and determination of the application herein and the petition, the honourable court thus grants conservatory orders staying the implementation of the regulation in pursuant to legal notice no 43/12," ruled Justice Antony Ndungu. Read: ERC begins crackdown on buildings without solar water heaters The court also ruled that the respondents be duly served with the petition before the hearing that was slated for June 7. Nalinkumar Shah, a property owner within Nakuru town through his advocate Yoni Aim moved to court under a certificate of urgency urging the court to stop the ERC from cracking down landlords who have not installed solar heaters in their houses. He sued the CS energy Charles Keter, Energy Regulation Commission, the Kenya power and the AG alleging that the regulations were formulated in bad faith and were not made in accordance with the provisions of the constitution. The aim in his affidavit said that the commission violated various rights and fundamental freedoms of the property owners. "The energy (Solar and heating bill) regulations bill will infringe on equal enjoyment and equal protection, right to human dignity, right to own and enjoy the property," he said He further said that the owners were not involved in the formulation of the regulation which is contrary to the law. "The ministry through the CS of energy did not present a memorandum for the justification of the regulations before drafting as the regulations carry with them a heavy economic burden to the public," he said. The property owners were to install heaters before November 25 last year but it was extended after they prayed for more time. Landlords had been asked to install water heaters on commercial and residential buildings whose occupants use more than 100 litres of hot water a day. The compliance deadline for the Energy (Solar Water Heating) Regulations 2012 lapsed on May 25, 2017, before it was extended for another six months. Five years ago, Kenya came up with the Energy (Solar Water Heating) Regulations to encourage the use of renewable sources of energy and ease the pressure on the national grid. The solar water heating rules prohibit Kenya Power from approving electricity connections to premises without panels. The guidelines target residential premises, educational institutions, health institutions, eateries and laundromats. The case was slated for hearing on June 7. Also read; ERC decries low uptake of solar heating systems Click here for the latest political news