Western Stima’s lead at the top of the Football Kenya Federation National Super League was reduced to five points after losing 1-0 to Nairobi Stima at Moi Stadium, Kisumu on Sunday. Eugene Wethuli’s lone strike was the difference in the hotly contested match. It was the second loss in the campaign for Stima and their first at home. Last weekend, the former Kenyan Premier League side drew 2-2 away to Coast Stima in Mombasa. Western Stima, coached by Ugandan Richard Makumbi, lead the log with 35 points. KCB moved to second on 30 points after a 2-0 win over Coast Stima while Ushuru dropped to third on 29 points after a barren draw against visiting GFE 105. Nairobi Stima is now fourth after their win over fellow power men. However, Stima has played one more game than their rivals. It was a bad weekend for Kisumu-based sides as Kisumu All Stars lost 2-0 to Nairobi City Stars while the game between Isibania and St Joseph’s Youth was rained off at Sony Green Stadium in Awendo, Migori County. However, law enforcers Administration Police and Kenya Police were triumphant. Alfred Chole’s strike was enough to send AP out of the drop zone while Kenya Police piled more misery on Kakamega High School’s Green Commandos with a 4-1 thumping. Modern Coast Rangers edged Bidco 2-1 at Mbaraki while Kibera Black Stars beat Kangemi All Stars 2-1 at Ruaraka. In the National Division One Zone B, Eldoret Youth extended their lead at the top of the table to five points after a 3-0 win over Trans Mara Sugar at Enoosaen Secondary School grounds. Abraham Kogei struck twice for Eldoret Youth before Kevin Cheti wrapped up the scores. Second-placed Shabana were held to a 1-1 draw by Raiply while Poror Mote upset third-placed Kisumu Hot Stars 3-1 at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Walter Omondi and Syamba Austine were on target as Bondo United beat Silibwet 2-1. Micah Kipyegon scored the consolation goal for Silibwet. In another clash Timsales defeated Bungoma Superstars 2-1while St Joseph’s Youth Academy played to a barren draw against Transfoc. The game between Griffin and Nyakach United was postponed.