The state wants banks to charge
borrowers based on their risk profiles in a proposed amendment to the law capping
interest rates. National Treasury Chief Administrative Secretary Nelson Gaichuhie yesterday said the proposal includes introduction of a flat rate. "Treasury is proposing a risk-based interest to replace the existing
law capping interests at four per cent above CBK rate of 10 per cent. This is
expected to bring fairness in the market, both to lenders and borrowers," he said. Although he did not reveal more information on the bill expected
in Parliament next month, the CAS becomes is the first high-ranking state official to hint at the contents of the much-awaited amendment. Read: Kenya could scrap or modify interest rate cap law - Uhuru Read Also: CBK regrets interest rates cap due to negative effects on economy However, a banker who sought anonymity, told the Star the
proposed amendment will be punitive to borrowers and not much different from
a previous one that gave banks freedom to set interest on loans. "What the CAS is saying will take us back to old days when
banks raised interests on credit at will. Although the proposal is objective
compared to the Banking Amendment Act 2016 which is subjective, it will still hurt
borrowers.’’ Treasury CS Henry Rotich while unveiling economic survey 2018
last month indicated that the government a new bill was in offing to replace
the existing one and provide legal base to safeguards consumers. “That process is ongoing and
we’ll be submitting legislation in Parliament in June to address the issue when
presenting the 2018/19 budget,”  Rotich told stakeholders in the banking sector yesterday. He was speaking during the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation's announcement that it will replace
the current fixed premium on bank deposits with a risk based premiums in the
next two years. The deposit insurer is currently charging banks a flat rate
of 0.15 per cent of total deposits as a cover for depositors in case the lender
goes under. KDIC chief officer Mohamud
Ahmed Mohamud said the "new model
will be fairer and encourage banks to streamline their operations in order to
minimise their risk exposure." More: Commercial interest rate caps unsustainable, says Rotich Click here for the latest political news