Opposition leader Raila Odinga has broken his silence over the NYS scandal, saying he and President Uhuru Kenyatta are committed to ending graft in Kenya. Raila said corruption is ailing the country and part of their pact after the handshake was on how to eradicate it. "What has remained is to perform what we agreed. I'm sure that the handshake will work and Kenyans should be prepared for a positive outcome," he said. The Nasa leader called on Kenyans to be patient saying he will stand firm against the vice. "Let us be patient and live together as Kenyans regardless of our political affiliations," Raila said. The former Prime Minister was speaking during the burial of Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya's mother in-law in Mungatsi, Busia County. Siaya Senator James Orengo said there is a 'criminal gang', especially at the Treasury, that Raila foresaw and spoke about previously. While supporting the handshake, Orengo reiterated that Kenyans should live as brothers and emulate the leaders. "It is only Raila who can bring reforms and democracy in this nation, let us continue building bridges," he said. Orengo stated that for Uhuru's Big Four agenda to be achieved, the NYS scandal suspects should be prosecuted immediately. "If Uhuru cannot bring to book the corrupt culprits, he should leave it to the People's President (Raila) as he is also equal to the task since he took an oath, " Orengo said. He added, "We must fight this monster called corruption for us to live in peace and harmony." Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga said that as much as he supports the handshake, Raila should be very careful. "We caution Raila to be very careful with the handshake, know what kind of people you are dealing with. They are not straightforward," he said. Senate speaker Kenneth Lusaka said that immediately after the reconciliation, temperatures cooled down at the Senate. He assured Kenyans that they shall see to it that devolution succeeds. "It does not matter who the president is but the resources will be made available at the counties," Lusaka said. Former Kakamega senator Bonnie Khalwale noted that it is only the truth that will stabilize the Republic of Kenya. "I caution the two leaders, if you are not going to fix the culture of impunity, tribalism and corruption in the country, we shall become a failed state. "I have looked at the list of firms that benefited from the Sh 9 billion NYS scandal and it is unfortunate that both the government and opposition MPs are involved," Khalwale said. "If MPs are stealing from the public who is going to catch the thief? he posed. Former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma urged Raila and Uhuru to provide the leadership that is required through the reconciliation process. Click here for the latest political news