The Commissioner for Co-operative Development in the State Department for Co-operatives, Ministry of Industry, Trade and Co-operative Mary Mungai has said the proposed amendments to the Cooperatives and Sacco Societies Acts is uncalled for. Speaking on Friday during the Kenya Union of Savings and Credit Co-operatives 31st Annual Delegates meeting in Nairobi, Mungai said saccos in the country have principles and guidelines on which they operate and would not allow someone else to ride on the existing sacco movement for their own selfish interests. "We have already made our stand on this. We don't need the Bill. We do not know the person behind it and we were not consulted before they could arrive at their decision. We need to have a critical analysis and interaction and input our effort. We are working on finding out the person behind it and their intention," Mungai said. The Cooperatives Alliance of Kenya chairman Daniel Marube who was also present during the meeting called on the sacco members to stand firm and resist any people giving them wrong advice so as to confuse them into accepting the amendments. He said the amendments are not miscellaneous but major changes that are touching directly on their lives and operations as a union. "We are saccos and have no intentions of becoming banks, neither are we profit making organisations. Cooperatives should have their space. We don't want these amendments because neither the CAK nor SASRA was consulted. I call on all our members to stand firm and have one voice . Talk to our brothers and sisters in Parliament and make them understand that we have put so much effort into being where we are today as a movement," Marube said. According to Marube, the bill seeks to introduce members refered to as "Social Impact Members" who will join the saccos without being registered, will not be making personal contributions to the saccos and will not be attending annual general meetings but they will come with their own fund. "The movement is under a serious attack. These men and women will then have the liberty to manage their own fund without involving other members, use the members' contributions to make investments and as security and then share the profit realised among their own cartels. In case of losses, the risks are transferred to the members and this is what we cannot allow," he said. He said the strangers trying to ride on the umbrella of an existing movement should form their own sacco and call it 'Social Impact Members Sacco' if they so wish. The controversial bill known as the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments)Bill, 2018.(National Assembly Bill No 12 of 2018), is believed to have been sponsored by National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale. It was introduced in Parliament on April 10, 2018 and is at the public hearing stage before it is debated in the House. 