  Introduction by Katiba Institute  The Star reported about a decision by Justice Chacha Mwita on an Air Force corporal’s case, who
got damages for cruel treatment under President Daniel Moi earlier this month. But we were delighted to find
on-line this simple but engaging account of this case, showing how people
outside Kenya are paying attention to the ways in which our Constitution has
empowered people. It is the latest in a series of legal actions brought for dreadful
treatment under the Daniel Moi regime, whether in Nyayo House (like Koigi wa
Wamwere who was awarded Sh2, 500,000 in 2015) or in prison after the attempted
coup of 1982. A legal issue that may be unfamiliar
to readers is the idea that after a time it may become impossible to pursue a
case. Because memories fade, and in order to encourage people to seek justice
quickly, the law often gives time limits, even as short as one or three years,
after the harm took place, for the injured person to go to court. You may
realise from cases such as that of an Australian bishop, recently convicted of
covering up clerical abuse of young people, which often in criminal cases there
is no time limit. But the case of the Air Force corporal was not a criminal
case: It was to get compensation not to punish anyone guilty of the mistreatment.
Kenyan courts have realised how people were afraid to try to seek justice
through the courts, so long as the head of state under, whom they were abused was
still in power. That they are now prepared to do so is a tribute to the
constitution and our revitalized judiciary. Carmel Rickard has written about the
law, human rights, justice, judgments and judicial matters for many years. A
former legal editor of The Sunday Times, South Africa's biggest newspaper,
she is now a columnist on legal issues. She has an LLM cum laude, was a Harvard
Nieman Fellow and currently is working on a PhD in legal writing. This piece was originally published
in the “A Matter of Justice” column produced by Carmel Rickard for Legalbrief. We
are grateful to the author for permission to reproduce this, and also to the South
African law publishers, Juta.  Introduction A long, long time ago, in 1976 to be
exact, John Muruge Mbogo joined the Kenya Armed Forces and was detailed to
serve with the Air Force. In the next six years, before his life changed
forever, he rose to the position of corporal. Then, in 1982, he was detained
and handed over to the army on suspicion he was part of an aborted coup. That was the start of a detention
that lasted well over four years. He says he was never tried and during his
detention, he was tortured to extract a confession, stripped naked, kept in
solitary confinement and otherwise treated in a way that infringed his
fundamental rights. Finally, he was released in December 1986 and immediately
sacked from the army. Now, decades later, he has filed a
petition asking for a court declaration that the entire period of his four year
and five-month detention was unlawful and unconstitutional and breached his
right to dignity.  CAN YOU CLAIM SO LONG AFTER THE EVENT? Most readers of the man’s petition
will immediately wonder about the obvious obstacles to his success: Would the
court agree to hear a matter involving events from so long ago, and how could
he prove, so many years later, that he was tortured and treated in the way he
claimed? Not surprisingly, the defence force
response was to deny all Mbogo’s allegations and to say the court should not
even consider the case because of the delay. To that particular criticism –
that he had taken so long to bring a case – Mbogo had this answer: “He had
taken so long to file the petition because the political environment was
hostile; he was traumatised; he had no money and was terrified by the regime.
He also stated that he did not believe that if he filed the case he would get
justice.” But with a new Constitution in 2010, followed by judicial reforms, he
gained enough confidence to file a petition. Despite all denial of wrong-doing,
the defence force conceded that Mbogo had indeed been arrested and held in
custody. But that arrest was lawful, they claimed. He was never ill-treated but
he was held as part of the army’s obligations to keep the country safe. Contrary
to Kenya’s recently repealed Constitution, however, Mbogo’s detention was not
‘periodically reviewed’, and other safeguards were ignored. There were also letters written to
and from his family during his incarceration, and other letters signed by the
official in charge of ‘restricted and detained persons’, all of which showed
that indeed, Mbogo had been held, without trial and without access, during the
period he claimed. The fact that none of the
safeguards that should have been in place to ensure people such as Mbogo were
assured of their rights, were in fact observed, meant he was held ‘in violation
of his human rights and fundamental freedoms’, the judge found. What about his claim of torture?
There was no evidence that he could produce to prove the claim, but the judge
found a way around the problem by distinguishing between ‘torture’ – often
difficult to prove years later – and ‘other treatment’ which was outlawed by
the constitution. In the view of the judge the ‘other treatment’ that was
prohibited would cover Mbogo’s claim. ‘It should be given a broad and flexible
interpretation to include any treatment unusual to human beings, intended to
humiliate for sadistic pleasure. His claim that he was stripped naked in
public, forced to walk on his knees across concrete floors and held in
waterlogged cells, would all fit under that heading, as would the fact that he
was held so long without trial. One of the hallmarks of Justice Mwita’s
decision is its reference to significant judgments from other jurisdictions on
torture, infringement of rights and bringing delayed court action in matters
like this. They included a decision by South Africa’s Constitutional Court in
which the judges noted how difficult it was to prove ‘acts of brutality and
torture’ that took place long before in an era when much that happened was
‘shrouded in secrecy’. ‘Records are not easily accessible;
witnesses are often unknown, dead, unavailable or unwilling,’ and it was
difficult to produce ‘corroborative evidence that could survive the rigours of
the law’.  THE JUDGE’S RESPONSE Mwita accepted the reasons given by
Mbogo for the delay in bringing his petition and held that there was in any
case ‘no limitation period within which to file claims challenging violation of
human rights and fundamental freedoms’. It is true that very few people
dared file claims against the then government for violation of their
fundamental rights. A few tried after President Moi left office but there was
still hesitation because not much had changed, said the judge. This began to change with the 2010 Constitution,
and Mbogo had brought his case three years later. “It is not in doubt that
there is no law in this country limiting the period within which one should
file a constitutional petition for violation of constitutional and human
rights,” the judge concluded. To ignore the violations suffered by
Mbogo would be “to run away from the fact” that the courts had a duty to
protect the human rights enshrined in the bill of rights. He was aware of the prejudice that
could be suffered by the other side in such a case, but since there was no
limitation clause in the constitution, or even clear pronouncements on the
subject by the highest court, it would be ‘difficult’ for him (the judge) to
hold that Mbogo had lost his right to ask for help. Considering the level of damages
awarded by other courts in comparable matters, he ordered Mbogo be paid Sh7
million plus costs and interest.