Kenya and Djibouti on Wednesday signed four agreements aimed at boosting trade and deepening bilateral links. The agreements were signed at State House, Nairobi where President
Uhuru Kenyatta hosted Djibouti President Ismail Omar Guelleh. The latter is on a
three-day state visit to Kenya. The agreements are Trade Agreement, MoU on Bilateral
Cooperation in the Livestock Sector, Agreement on Reciprocal Promotion
and Protection of Investments. An agreement on visa exemption for
holders of diplomatic passports was also signed shortly after Uhuru and Guelleh held bilateral talks focusing on trade and security. President Kenyatta said the partnership that has existed between
Kenya and Djibouti has been strong and efforts were being made to make
the cooperation more fruitful. The Head of State, who spoke after holding a private meeting with his
guest, said the two nations face the same kind of challenges since they
are in a region that has for decades been ravaged by conflicts and
modern forms of organised crime like terrorism. "We have talked about how to strengthen our cooperation and to secure
our nations. Both our nations are in a very troubled region and we
talked on how to secure the safety and prosperity of our people," he said. President Guelleh said Djibouti desires to strengthen its partnership
with Kenya in developing the region and making it peaceful. He said Djibouti and Kenya are working together to make Somalia
peaceful to ensure that the security risk that its continued instability
poses to the region is eliminated. "We are in a troubled region where we are confronted by extremism and
violence. That is why our militaries are in Somalia to help it regain
stability because what happens in Somalia has an immediate impact on all
of us." President Guelleh added that Djibouti, like Kenya, is
sincere in its desire to make Somalia peaceful. The trade agreement is expected to open the door for more business between Kenya and Djibouti as it will act as a facilitation mechanism. "The parties, for enhancing and facilitating trade between the two
countries, shall grant each other the Most Favored Nation Treatment in
all matters relating to trade," says part of the agreement signed on
Kenya’s behalf by Industrialisation CS Adan Mohamed. In the bilateral cooperation in the livestock sector, Kenya will work
together with Djibouti in expanding livestock business. Kenya will tap the experience of Djibouti in unlocking the potential in
business in the livestock sector especially in exports to the Middle
East. The two nations will increase trade in livestock and livestock
products. The agreement was signed on Kenya’s behalf by Cabinet
Secretary for Agriculture Mwangi Kiunjuri. Cabinet Secretaries Monica Juma (Foreign Affairs) and Fred Matiangi
(Interior and Coordination of National Government) signed the other two
agreements. Deputy President William Ruto and Cabinet Secretaries attended the bilateral meeting with President Guelleh and his delegation. President Guelleh’s visit comes hot on the heels of the two day State Visit by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali. The Djibouti President  was welcomed with an elaborate state reception complete with a 21-gun
salute shortly after his arrival. He then inspected a guard of honour mounted by a detachment of the
Kenya Airforce. After the
arrival ceremonies, the Djibouti leader signed the distinguished visitors book
before holding a tete-a-tete with his host. First Lady
Margaret Kenyatta, Chief of Defence Forces Gen Samson Mwathethe and other senior government
officials were also at hand to receive the visiting president. Click here for the latest political news