DPP Noordin Haji and DCI boss George Kinoti yesterday met to review statements recorded by 40 individuals suspected to have been involved in the latest NYS scandal. The two officers met at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters along Kiambu Road where they scrutinised evidence gathered by detectives. Sources said arrests could be made as soon as next week. The scrutiny of statements and evidence is expected to continue today. Also present was state prosecutor Duncan Ondimu. Read: Police to quiz 40 in two days in NYS scam probe Sources told the Star the scrutiny was aimed at identifying strong leads for detectives to put up a strong case. “We have decided to do a prosecution-led investigation where all loopholes are detected and sealed in good time,” said a source who requested anonymity. Among the suspects under probe are PS Lilian Mbogo and NYS director general Richard Ndumbai. Both Mbogo and Ndubai have since stepped aside to pay way for the probe. The decision to change strategy was prompted by release of 23 suspects in the Sh791 million NYS scandal of 2015. The court said there was inadequate evidence. The suspects were charged with economic crimes in which the government lost Sh47 million at the National Youth Service. The DPP has appealed the release of the suspects following a public outcry. Among the suspects is former Planning PS Peter Mangiti and former NYS senior deputy director general Adan Harakhe. The duo were jointly charged with conspiracy to swindle the government of the cash. They were also accused of failing to comply with procurement laws. Also read: CBK probes 6 banks over NYS payments Haji and Kinoti want to avoid the mistakes made by their predecessors. The probe is the fi rst major assignment for the pair since their appointment this year. Haji took over from Keriako Tobiko who was appointed Environment Cabinet Secretary, while Kinoti replaced Ndegwa Muhoro. Meanwhile, Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi yesterday asked Kinoti to publish the names of politicians behind the Sh1.9 billion maize scandal at the National Cereals and Produce Board. He made the call after revelations that at least fi ve MPs, senior government offi cials and businessmen are among 30 people being investigated over the scandal. Sudi told journalists in Mombasa those implicated in the scandal should not be allowed to go scotfree, especially with the hue and cry among maize farmers over delayed payment. Details: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal Click here for the latest political news