After high school, my father encouraged me to study engineering in the US, which was a five-year programme. I got a culture shock at how different things were, and how efficiently the country was run. One day as I was walking on campus with my engineering classmates I threw the wrapper of what I was eating on the ground, as we are so accustomed to doing in Kenya. My classmates looked at me in disbelief and one picked up the piece of paper and gave it back to me, informing me that the paper must be disposed of properly in the trash bin. This experience was an eye-opener about the values that they held as a community, and I realised that the campus was clean not because of the policing by authorities but rather by the citizens themselves. When you walk around Nairobi, Mombasa and other major cities, you will notice trash everywhere. We have become a society that seems to be okay having garbage around us, as if it is part of us. Granted, most of the county governments have not delivered on their garbage collection and recycling mandate, and yes, they must shoulder their responsibility and deliver. Most county governments, if not all, do not have proper garbage disposal systems, despite allocating funds for them. However, it is not entirely their fault because for this garbage to exist, it means someone created it and dumped it. Driving around Kenya, one sees people throwing all manner of trash out of their vehicles on the side of the roads. Some of it ends up in the drainage systems and this is one major reason why when it rains, our roads end up flooded. Once it rains, we see the consequences of our bad behaviour on the drainage systems, as plastic bottles, papers and other items get washed to one part of the system. The time has come for all Kenyans to stop looking at the government to clean up the environment and to take up the role themselves. How wonderful would you feel walking or driving around a city that has little to zero trash on the streets? Charity begins at home and we must respect our environment. We need a paradigm shift. We must change the way we think and modify our values so that anyone throwing trash is condemned. It’s only through our collective effort that we will have a clean environment. The buck stops with us Kenyans. Rwanda has a very successful ‘Umuganda’ (which means coming together) cleanup campaign that compels residents to take up the responsibility of cleaning their immediate environment. This is done once every month, bringing together all Rwandese to clean up their home areas, including the towns. We can replicate this model in Kenya. This, coupled with county governments that are able to collect the trash effectively and modern recycling plants would give us one of the cleanest countries in the world. Ethiopia has recently finalised the construction of a plant that will recycle waste in the capital city to produce energy. The Reppie waste-to-energy plant, a first in Africa, is set to revolutionise the entire city’s approach to dealing with waste. The plant will incinerate 1,400 tonnes of waste every day — that’s roughly 80 per cent of the city’s rubbish — all the while supplying Addis with 30 per cent of its household electricity needs and meeting European standards on air emissions. Additionally, Sweden has become so efficient in recycling waste that they have to bring in waste from other countries. President Uhuru Kenyatta should lead from the front and start a National Environment Day, on the first or last Saturday of the month, and to last a couple of hours in the morning. This will force us to change our values, respect the environment and in turn have a clean country that we can all be proud of. Political and
communications consultant @MachelWaikenda)