Savala primary and secondary school in Lugari subcounty, Kakamega, could be closed after toilets collapsed due to torrential rain. The primary school head teacher, Moses Magodi, said the downpour brought down four of the seven ablution blocks on Monday afternoon. The collapsed toilets are used by 500 girls. There were no casualties as students were in class when the toilets collapsed. Boys and girls have been forced to share the remaining toilets, creating an awkward situations. Magodi said students fear the remaining blocks may collapse. “Some are using neighbours’ toilets, while others just go to maize and sugarcane plantations to answer calls of nature. This poses a major health risk,” he said. Public health officers visited the school on Wednesday and gave the management 14 days to construct new toilets, otherwise, the school will be closed. Secondary school principal George Nabibia yesterday appealed for donations and swift assistance by well-wishers and the government to avoid disrupting studies. Area MP Ayub Savula said the toilets will be reconstructed by the National Government Constituency Development Fund (NG-CDF). “The head teacher should write a proposal and give it to Lumakanda NG-CDF office and we’ll rebuild the toilets using the emergency fund to ensure learning isn’t interrupted,” he said. possible health crisis Savula also urged the national government to use the emergency fund to support schools damaged by the rain. He said collapse of the toilets was largely due to the high water table. The situation could lead to a crisis as public health officials say one ablution block should be used by fewer than 100 students. County public health officer Zablon Onyango said most people in the sugar belt defaecate in bushes and cane plantations. In 2016 the Lugari public health department said that 21 per cent of residents do not have toilets. Its report said Matete area was the worst-hit by lack of latrines in the subcounty. The report said defaecation in open fields was a problem. The Kakamega government in March announced it will spend Sh4 million to educate residents on dangers of open defaecation. In September last year, two schools and three hotels in Mumias were closed due to poor sanitation and fears of a cholera outbreak. Shibale Primary and Secondary schools were closed by the public health ministry due to lack of proper toilets for 1,000 students. A Mumias West subcounty official had said the closure was a precautionary move. The secondary school has no toilets at all, the official said. The 75 girls at Shibale Secondary shared only two toilets that the teachers also used, the official said. In Shibale primary, the official said, 500 girls had only two old pit latrines that were almost collapsing. Only eight latrine toilets were available for the 420 boys. The official said the girls needed 42 well-fitted toilets and asked the school to put up eight more toilets for boys and a urinal. The ministry also closed three hotels in the town because of poor drainage and waste disposal. Officials said waterborne diseases can be prevented through proper waste disposal. 