Leaders opposing mineral mining in Kitui lack vision, Governor Charity Ngilu has said. She said mining would create wealth and help fight poverty. The governor spoke on Sunday during a consultative meeting with livestock keepers and traders at the Agricultural Training Centre in Kitui town. Although the governor did not drop names, leaders in Mwingi Central where blocks C and D of the Mui Coal Casin are found, have opposed plans to revive stalled coal mining. They said unless they are actively involved and proper consultations are done, they won't allow mining in the area. "The leaders against mining are full of the themselves. They have no feeling for the lowly and poor Kitui people who will  benefit from mineral exploitation," she  said. Ngilu said with support from residents, minerals in Kitui would be mined. She said the county is endowed with abundant minerals and there is no reason why people should continue suffering. The naysayers have no control over residents who own the land with minerals, she said. Participants including former Wiper Nominated MP Robert Mutemi condemned politicians who are against mining. They backed Ngilu's plans for copper, limestone, iron ore and coal mining. At the same time, Ngilu said the county government would  provide  Artificial  Insemination  services for cattle. "Farmers will only pay a token of Sh1,000 once they get calves," she  said. Ngilu said a modern slaughterhouse will be built in Kitui town. Mwingi and Kabati trading centres will also have their own. "We want out people  to benefit from all livestock products. We want to produce surplus meat for in other counties," she said. The meeting  also endorsed  a plan by the county governmen to set  up a kitty  to offer soft loans to livestock traders in Kitui. "You will access loans  to buy livestock from that account and once you sell, you will payback the principal amount and keep the profit," said Ngilu. She added that  her administration has acquired  five lorries  to  ferry cattle  from one market centre to the other  and  ensure  that  they do not lose weight and valued by trekking long distances. She said more lorries would  be purchased  to ensure  that all areas of Kitui were covered.