Moses Wetang'ula's warning to Opposition leader Raila Odinga, about a "noisy and messy divorce" will manifest soon, Didimus Barasa has said. The Kimilili MP said on Monday that Raila will henceforth be treated as an enemy of the Mulembe community that has "completely lost faith in him". "He should not set foot in Bungoma," the Jubilee Party politician said, adding unity will not be achieved in the region while some leaders follow Raila blindly in every election period. He accused the ODM leader of using the community to gain political mileage. Barasa scolded Raila for "orchestrating" Wetang'ula's removal from the Senate Minority Leader post. The Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Senator was removed following a vote - Nasa coalition's Parliamentary Group meeting unanimously voted to replace Wetang'ula with Siaya's James Orengo. After it was reported that ODM had planned to kick out the Senator, he warned Raila that the Nasa "divorce will be noisy and messy". "If anyone wants a divorce it will be noisy, messy and unhelpful, and it will have causalities. I'm not going anywhere. I was not invited to Nasa - I'm a founder," he said on March 15. More on this: Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Also read: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Barasa told the ODM boss that he cannot purport to fight for inclusivity "yet he is exhibiting high tendons of exclusivity". On March 9, Raila announced his decision to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta for the sake of peace and development for all. The lawmaker said: "We have been advocating for the unity of our people. It will not be attained while some of our leaders are slaves to Raila. We must chase him away ... he should not operate past Maseno and should leave western alone as we strategise. "His handshake was meant to bring unity so it should not be the same handshake that makes him punish our son Weta. We as luhays won’t forgive him." Barasa further told Raila: "You cannot say Uhuru’s government is for all yet you sack our son Weta, who shelved his presidential ambitions for you, and employ your fellow Luo Orengo and expect Luhyas to continue smiling at you." He spoke at Katiba grounds while unveiling an ambulance and a bus for Bahai Secondary School. At the homecoming ceremony for Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa on Saturday, majority of the speakers touched on the elusive unity ahead of the 2022 general election. Wetang'ula and ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi have hinted at a merger, Mudavadi saying the union is meant to solidify their support base. He says it will also strengthen the Opposition with a view to forming a strong party that can field a single candidate in future polls. More on this: [VIDEO] Mudavadi trashes Uhuru-Raila pact, says not reflecting the will of Kenyans Also read: Teaming with Wetangula part of plot to eject Raila and Uhuru, says Mudavadi IN relation to this, Barasa noted that Luhyas are peace-loving and loyal. "Your brother is your brother. We know Senate Speaker] Kenneth Lusaka is our son, [Devolution Cabinet Secretary] Eugene Wamalwa is our son and Weta is our son. We cannot allow anyone to play around with them." The MP added that the Raila got many votes in western because of the Ford Kenya leader's campaigns "that gave Jubilee sleepless nights". "We elected leaders in Jubilee from Western because we thought the few votes we gave Raila would mean no rewards. But we have the Senate Speaker, Devolution and Sports seats (CS Rashid Achesa) yet the small seat that ODM gave Weta was taken away," he said. He further criticised Raila "for all his wrongs against the community since Kijana Wamalwa’s time". Meanwhile, reports indicate Wetang'ula and Deputy President William Ruto have been reaching out to each other privately. A group of Ford Kenya MPs, led by Barasa and Ford Kenya Secretary General Eseli Simiyu, recently visited Ruto at his home in Karen and had a closed-door meeting with him. Related: Raila to Wetangula: I did not plot your downfall Also read: Wetang'ula a casualty of Uhuru-Raila deal, Ruto safe, says Murkomen Click here for the latest political news