Deputy president William Ruto on Saturday maintained the time for politics is over and Jubilee government is focusing on service delivery to the people Ruto while addressing mourners at the burial of the late Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim in Mochongoi said he remains focused to his 2022 ambition and he will not look back nor sideways. Many expected the DP to hit back at Baringo Senator Gideon Moi for blocking him from meeting the retired president Daniel Moi at his Kabarak home on Thursday. Ruto had flown from Nairobi with agenda of meeting Moi but was denied access after waiting for three hours with his aides accusing senator Moi of being behind the embarrassment and humiliation. Communication from president Moi's handlers however dismissed the claims that Ruto had been block saying the meeting did not take place as Mzee Moi had an appointment with his doctors at the same time. Read:Exercises with doctors keep Moi from meeting Ruto in Kabarak Also See: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? DP Ruto in his sentiments however chose to keep of the debate despite Jubilee leaning politicians bashing Gideon. Senator Moi received a showdown as the leaders assured Ruto of their support in his 2022 presidential bid. "You are fake because you allowed an outsider Raila Odinga who opposed Jubilee during the previous election to greet your father yet you turned to lock outside your own brother," Kapseret MP Oscah Sudi said. Read:MPs bash Gideon Moi over thwarted DP Ruto Kabarak mission But Moi in his response hit back at the legislators telling them to keep his father out of dirty politics. Gideon said he is ready to carry all the insults on himself if it is the gateway to 2022 succession politics. "But I beg of you fellow leaders, keep my father away from insults and dirty politics. I am ready myself to stand for all abusive utterances," he said. Read:Leave my father out of politics, Gideon tells Ruto supporters over aborted Kabarak visit Ruto hover doged the subject saying, "We have closed politics and now we focus on developing the country. We shall not look back or sideways in service delivery". Ruto rather eulogised Kipchoim terming her a blessed and dedicated peace maker. Ruto said in honor of Kipchoim, the government will in a months time supply equipment worth Sh 50 million to the Baringo TTC as she had wished The DP said some Sh 4 million have already been issued out to allow some secondary schools collect the log books to their school buses as the late had made the request that her will be accomplished to help the schools. "Personally I vowed to pay another Sh 7.5 million to help some three schools within her constitution to repair their buses. This as the acting Area MP will have to honor. We shall also ensure that title deeds have been issued to the Mochongoi settlement scheme, all we are waiting for is the bill to come to the cabinet," Ruto said. Ruto insisted due to Kipchoim's patience and strong commitment for over five years battling with Cancer that finally robbed her life, the government has resolved to equip all county health facilities with cancer testing kits despite having a cancer centre in every county.       