President Uhuru Kenyatta has assented to the Equalization Fund Bill that will see 14 marginalised counties share Sh11.98 billion. At State House in Nairobi on Friday, Uhuru also signed Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2018 and Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill, 2017. Of the 14 counties categorised as marginalised, Turkana will get Sh1.05 billion – the largest share of the fund – followed by Mandera at Sh967.6 million and Wajir at Sh929.8 million. Other counties that were allocated comparatively huge sums include Marsabit (Sh886.2 million), Samburu (Sh869.7 million) and Tana River (Sh859 million). Related: Treasury hoards counties’ cash The Equalization Fund is aimed at improving healthcare, water services, education, roads and electricity distribution in the northern Kenya counties. Through the  Supplementary Appropriation Bill, 2018, the President allowed an expenditure of Sh87 billion for various services for the financial year ending June 30. These services include the development of the blue economy, policing, population management, correctional and devolution services and development in ASAL regions. Others are foreign relations and diplomacy, quality assurance in education, technical vocational and youth training as well as development. Agriculture, health and housing were assigned the highest amounts, complementing the government’s Big Four Agenda. Read: Involve us in Uhuru’s Big Four agenda - governors The Statute Law (Miscellaneous Amendments) makes several amendments to laws including those of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, pensions and those concerning pharmacy and poisons. Changes in the SRC law are for its commissioners to be engaged on a full time basis. They also allow the President to nominate the chairperson of the commission. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Majority Leader Aden Duale and Siaya Senator James Orengo, who is the Senate Minority Leader, were among those who witnessed the signing. Click here for the latest political news