Bungoma Governor
Wycliffe Wangamati has banned cane tractors from operating past 6 pm in a bid to tame continued loss of lives in accidents involving the cane hauling vehicles. The move follows the
loss of 21 lives over the past one week that resulted from accidents involving
the tractors on the Kitale-Webuye  Highway. The latest accident
happened on Friday night where seven people died on the spot at Maliki market,
a short distance from the infamous Kamukuywa bridge that claimed 14 lives on
May 18. Read: Seven killed after matatu collides with tractor near Kamukuywa bridge Also read: Don among those killed in Friday crash The accident, which
occurred at around 9 pm, involved a 14-seater matatu and a cane tractor
belonging to West Kenya Sugar Company. "I am from
holding a meeting with the Managing Director of West Kenya Sugar factory over
the weighty issue of road carnage involving their cane trailers in our county,’
Wangamati told mourners at a burial ceremony in Webuye town on Saturday. “From today, Saturday May 26, and until the new Transport Bill by
the County Assembly on Road Safety is passed, no cane trailers will be allowed
on Bungoma roads past 6 pm, whether moving or parked," the governor said. He added:
"The County Government of Bungoma is
going to deploy enforcement officers who will patrol and make sure this is
adhered to strictly.” The factory management also agreed to engage the County Assembly
Committee on Transport during public participation on the Bill. The sugar
firm pledged to retrain its drivers on road safety and put out a hotline and a
reward system for members of the public who will report any of their drivers
for drunk or careless driving. The
Kitale-Webuye highway has become notorious for fatal road accidents involving
cane trailers over the recent months. On December
11, 14 members from the same family died on the spot at the Kamukuywa bridge
after the matatu they were travelling in collided with a cane tractor from the
same factory. The matatu rammed the
stationary trailer that had stalled on the bridge but had no reflectors to warn
oncoming motorists. The death toll from
the accident later rose to 19 after five of the seven people who were injured died
in hospital while undergoing treatment. Following
Friday's accident, Bungoma senator
Moses Wetangula sent his message of condolences to the affected families. He asked
the relevant authorities to ensure they tame rogue drivers who are taking the
lives of innocent Kenyans. Read: Matatu crashes on tractor at Kamukuywa bridge, 14 feared dead Click here for the latest political news