Professor Adebayo Adedeji will long be remembered for the prominent role he played in shaping the UN Economic Commission for Africa (better known as the ECA) as a powerful intellectual think tank in the 1970s and 1980s. This was a period Africa faced an onslaught from the Breton Woods institutions with development paradigms that were largely oblivious to Africa’s real developmental predicaments. Bayo, as we fondly called him, would brook no nonsense. He spoke with the disarming confidence of knowing what he talked about, backed by a wealth of data and acquaintance, with comparative development paradigms few would find fault with. When he finally rallied the African political and intellectual leadership around the Lagos Plan of Action ( 1980 ) and the Final Act of Lagos, which followed in its wake, we knew we had found a homegrown refutation of the fallacies behind the Structural Adjustment Programmes (SAPs). But on that, I will delve a little letter in this tribute to my friend and colleague. This icon, this indomitable son of Nigeria, who became a professor at 36, proving himself an economist who was at home with his peers, finally bowed out of this life on April 25 in Lagos, Nigeria aged 87. I got to know about this several weeks after Bayo passed on from my friend Otieno Aluoka. When I called Bayo’s long-time friend, Dr Jeggan Senghor, who now lives in Sheffield, UK, he confirmed the sad news. Jeggan served as Bayo’s personal assistant in the eighties. Bayo had worn many hats. A bureaucrat and public policy expert, he served as Nigeria’s Federal Commissioner for Economic Development and Reconstruction in 1971-75 after the end of the Biafra Civil War, which substantially destabilised the political economy of that young nation. He was responsible for the economic development and reconstruction of post-civil war Nigeria, part of his CV that no doubt catapulted him to the UN position he eventually captured in Addis Ababa in June 1975 as the executive secretary of the ECA. On his return to Nigeria after retiring from the UN in July 1991, Bayo founded the African Centre for Development and Strategic Studies (ACDESS), a non- governmental independent non-profit think tank dedicated to multi-disciplinary research and strategic studies. Situated in his home town Ijebu-Ode in Ogun state, ACDESS has had various fellows from Africa and outside leading research and seminars in social conflicts, democratisation processes in Africa, economic development and kindred issues. From such works have ensued publications in terms of books, journal articles and newspaper opinion pieces. Bayo, as the executive director, had always been the force behind this institution. His major publication from the research at ACDESS is the book he edited in 1993 entitled Africa Within the World: Beyond Dispossession and Dependence, (London: Zed Books). I remember the day ACDESS was officially opened in July 1991 in the quiet town of Ijebu-Ode. Bayo had invited a number of African intellectuals and myself to join him in the ceremony. We stayed at a modest hotel in the town, joined Bayo and his family for dinner at home on our first night and woke up the next morning to sounds of drum beats that came from afar. When I asked my Nigerian colleague what was happening as we took breakfast, he told me the town people were preparing for the big day at ACDESS to celebrate their son. That Bayo had retired to his village and took intellectual life back home was a big thing. At about 11 o’clock, we moved to ACDESS to be shown around. Built very much in the fashion of the African Institute for Economic Development and Planning (IDEP), an ECA outfit in Dakar, ACDESS was definitely more grandiose with some touch of splendour, befitting Bayo’s love for excellence. At least that is what I thought then. By midday, the ceremony had started at a well-decorated outdoor pavilion bedecked with Nigerian flags and traditional accoutrements. Then the MC stepped in and gave the order of the day. Scholars, chiefs and dignitaries were to arrive professionally, with each being properly introduced and presented as he or she proceeded to their designated seat. I had never seen such a ceremony elsewhere in my life. It was a day worth living. Passing by one by one, were men and women who had received their PhDs in astronomy, pharmacology, physics, mathematics, internal medicine, international relations, chemistry and so on: All from this little town of Ijebu-Ode. They were dressed in colourful robs befitting royalties in the flamboyance only associated with Nigerians. Some had fathers who had received their PhDs from the University of Glasgow as early as 1910! For the first time, I now understood why Nigerians always behave with so much confidence, notwithstanding the chaos and social pandemonium we associate with the City of Lagos! Back to the Lagos Plan of Action and that era. What was Bayo’s real contribution and did he really change the discourse on Africa’s political economy and development paradigms? I think he did. First, the LPA focussed on Africa’s “collective self reliance” in a political atmosphere where the emancipation of the African people — where the state serving their basic needs — was paramount. Second, the World Bank initiated a report by Elliot Berg, while validly focussing on the “failed” state-led development projects such as import substitution industrialisation, went over board in putting faith in the “economic salvation” by market forces, trashing state-led social development programmes to the dustbin of unworthy economic theory. Bayo rallied intellectuals in Africa to a detailed critique of this gospel with detailed studies and unflinching arguments. What struck me about Accelerated Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: An Agenda for Action book is that it did not pay attention to, nor mention, the word “democracy” or the concept of “democratisation”, two concerns in any agenda that could possibly be conceived in thinking about Africa’s development then. Without the precedence set by SAP, the political side of people’s emancipation evidenced by yet another Adedeji initiative to establish the African Charter on Human and People’s Rights (the Banjul Charter) would not have seen the light of day in the early 1990s. An appeal to the community of African intellectuals and academics who worked with Bayo: Let us hold a memorial conference in ACDESS and publish a book thereafter dedicated to what Bayo did and stood for.   