“For my part the deeper I enter into the cultures and the political circles, the surer I am that the great danger that threatens Africa is the absence of ideology.” Frantz Fanon in Towards the African Revolution. Why do they still hold those tedious Labour Day parades? What is the purpose? You are seated at home on the public holiday and all on TV are those worker parades, dances, long prayers for all problems in Kenya, bland skits, speeches... And you have that immortal clown ‘brother’ Francis Atwoli swooshing around in a glitzy fuel-guzzler, pretending to be the face of the long-suffering Kenyan ‘wakas. State topdogs lie through their teeth how they care about the plight of labourers. TV reporters, presenters and their guests talk endlessly about nothing else but better pay, minimum wages. Next day the ‘meat wrappers’ are awash with pictures under headlines like, ‘Pomp, colour at Uhuru Park as Kenyans mark Labour Day’. Pomp and colour, indeed, yet it turns out the lowest paid wakas got an increase of just five per cent. Employers won’t even bother to pay the measly raise. Pomp and colour where wakas are understood to comprise only those who earn a salary. Yet all of us — except capitalists and politicians — are workers! Can’t the media report intelligently about Workers’ Day? But how can they when, obviously, they are hardly concerned about the ideological underpinnings of the labour movement? As far as everyone is concerned, labour activism is about agitating for better work conditions for people in formal employment. Strikes. Collective bargaining agreements. Wilson Sossion breathing fire. Atwoli’s pedantic poetry and politics in praise of the high and mighty. Whatnot. Lest we forget, labour self-organising is primarily about the right to work. That means far more than merely having a job in the capitalist sense. Market women are workers. Matatu people are workers. Herders are workers. Sex workers. Peasants on their shambas are workers. Fisherfolk too. The current narrative of workers that privileges formal employment over other forms of labour is a capitalist distortion. Workers place human beings above money. Labour is more important than capital. Worker self-organising is founded on the truth that workers create society’s wealth. It is workers, therefore, who must own and manage the forces of production. By building solidarity and popular power, workers are not looking for better employment conditions under an exploitative system that commoditises skills. Ultimately, workers seek to overthrow the system to liberate themselves and create a society where everyone enjoys the full value of their work. Under capitalism, there are in fact no workers but robbers and their victims. Your pay is only a tiny portion of the actual value of your work, which is why capitalists make super-profits to secure the obscene luxuries of the top one per cent and not for the overall good of society. It is why you have economic growth in a country with millions of dirt-poor people. That is the reason comedian Atwoli wears gold bling and lives large while the poor women he purports to fight for die of chemical poisoning in flower farms in Naivasha. Pre-occupation with salaries, jobs, is based on the notion that an economy could be so developed until everyone has a good job. The myth of limitless growth. It will always be too many people chasing too few jobs, as long as capitalism persists. A well-managed society does not aim at limitless growth or merely creating more jobs. Its goal is to make everyone a creator of wealth, not just for personal use but also for the good of all. Capitalism makes a few people rich with the empty rhetoric that their riches would one day trickle down to the rest of us. Hogwash. The rich would rather die of too much food than share with the hungry. A good society, however endowed and hardworking, does not just produce. It regulates consumption too. People should live simply so that others might simply live. So, Labour Day has come and gone like many others before. An empty celebration. Its entire point is lost.