One hundred thousand residents in  Murang’a town and its environs do not have water after landslides destroyed pipes. Supply was disrupted on Wednesday evening after a landslide in Gachocho, where the Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company has its main intake along Irati river. Managing director Daniel Ng’ang’a on Saturday said rocks weighing more than 2,000 cubic metres slid and crashed the pipe at the intake, cutting short supply to the town. He said the company is now using explosives to blast the rock and make it easier to clear the boulders to repair the 14-inch pipe. The company revived the Kahaywe intake that was not being used to supply water as efforts are made to restore the main line. The intake provides 4,000 cubic metres of water every day, while the destroyed Gachocho intake provides 10,000 cubic metres. “The Kayahwe intake is only able to supply 40 per cent of our water demand, but we are supplying it in rations and we ask people to ensure they conserve it as much as possible for more homes to get it,” Ng’ang’a said. He said more than seven kilometres of the company’s water pipeline has been destroyed by floods and landslides. Ng’ang’a said they will require Sh10 million to repair it. He said the company plans to anchor the pipes by constructing gabions and putting concrete along the pipeline to make it more stable and help it endure similar weather conditions in future. Ng’ang’a appealed to the county government and the Tana Water Services Board  to help in the anchoring works that he said will provide a permanent solution to destruction of pipes. BOWSERS “We want to assure Murang’a town residents that we are working day and night to ensure the pipes are repaired and water services restored by Monday [today],” Ng’ang’a said. The company is supplying water to Murang’a prison using bowsers. Water supply to the institution, which has more than 600 inmates had also been cut off and the company is now supplying the commodity using bowsers. Meanwhile, boarding secondary schools have been forced to buy water after going for days without a drop. The schools, which get the commodity from Muwasco and Kahuti water company, have had to buy it for Sh9,000 per bowser. Transport was paralysed along Kanjama-Kangema road last Wednesday after a section of it collapsed due to a landslide. Kenya Rural Roads Authority urged motorists to use alternative routes. The meteorological department issued a warning the region would experience heavy rains. On April 28 last year, four people died following a mudslide in Murarandia village in Kiharu constituency and 10 others were injured. Click here for the latest political news