Newly appointed Harambee Stars head coach Sebastien Migne will have his coaching credentials put to test today when he rallies his charges against Swaziland in a friendly match at Kenyatta Stadium, Machakos. Migne, who oversaw a four-day training session for Stars, will be forced to do without the services of foreign-based players, who have given the friendly, which came off the Fifa calendar, a wide berth. The controversial friendly, which has fixed by Football Kenya Federation (FKF) to gauge the readiness of players ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers, ignited a supremacy battle between Kenya Premier League and FKF. Kenyans are pitted against Ghana, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone in the qualifiers. FKF forced KPL to shelve the ‘Mashemeji Derby’ arguing that the two clubs had contributed 12 players to the national team hence could not play without the services of their senior players. FKF also opposed the idea by the home team, AFC Leopards, to host the match at the incomplete Bukhungu Stadium, describing the move as a risk to the players and the fans. With both bodies maintaining hard stance, it was KPL who blinked first even after seeking the intervention of the Sports Dispute Tribunal to bar FKF from interfering with the already planned derby. And despite the Tribunal ruling in their favour, the Jack Oguda-led KPL succumbed to pressure and shelved the derby to pave way for the friendly. The players from either sides had earlier reported to camp, awaiting the ruling of the Tribunal with George ‘BlackBerry’ Odhiambo missing due to illness. The players had their light training yesterday at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies under the close watch of Migne and Mathare United tactician Francis Kimanzi. Apart from the unattached former Gor Mahia skipper Musa Mohammed and FK Tirana’s left back Erick Ouma, the rest of the players ply their trade locally as the oversea’s legion failed to show up for the training session. However, Migne said he will work with those available. “It’s a shame I don’t have the professional players here. We really have no time to prepare for Ghana and I have to work with those available. I know Swaziland are preparing for Cosafa and it’s going to be a tough match. We will work as a group to achieve results.” Should Migne fail to start with a win, Equatorial Guinea will provide a platform for him to redeem himself on Monday in another friendly.