Runyenjes parents have raised their concerns over low number of pupils reporting to schools for their second term. A section of the parents told journalists that some of them have opted to keep their children at home due to poor state of roads that have been rendered impassible due to heaving rains. They said the Katahageri Kanyuabora road in Runyenjes constituency which is used by majority of pupils is in bad state forcing them to mobilise themselves to conduct some maintenance. "Some children walk for ten kilometers to school through this road, some use boda bodas and with this kind of a road, we do not think it is safe when it is raining," Irene Njoki a parent at Ciamanda Primary School said. She said as a parent she would rather keep her children, especially those in lower classes, at home than let them walk along a slippery road. Other parents said with many boda bodas plying on the road, the number of accidents involving the school children has risen. Catherine Wanja, the head teacher for Mukuria primary school and who is also the spokesperson for twenty head teachers heading different learning institutions situated along the road said that more than thirty per cent of her pupils have not reported to school yet. Wanja said some of the teachers at the institution are from other regions and they might also not make it to school on time. "If a teacher is late for like five minutes a day that translates to twenty five minutes per week and if they are seeing about two hundred pupils a day you can tell the time wasted to the children," she said. The head teacher noted that performance may go down as it might also be hard to cover the second term syllabus. "Syllabus coverage is going to be poor and so much in terms of investment that should be done to the children," Wanja said. The schools' management in the area are now calling on the government through the relevant authorities to intervene in grading the impassable road so that teachers and learners can be able to get to school on time. "The government should intervene so that stakeholders who support learning institutions, our parents, the ministry, TSC and any other stakeholder that is needed to support institutions can be able to access the institutions," she added. This comes as only half of the learner population in Nyatike sub-county Migori County have reported back to school for second term. Some have been marooned at home by floods, while others have been displaced. On Thursday the Star found empty Early Childhood Development classrooms. Read:Parents keep kids away from school in fl ood-hit Nyatike Also See:Floods and bandit attacks keep Baringo students out of schools   