Kiambu residents have demanded the resignation of Chief Justice David Maraga following the acquittal of Pastor James Ng'ang'a. The Neno Evangelism Centre leader was cleared of the charge of causing the death of Mercy Njeri by dangerous driving. Chief magistrate Godfrey Oduor delivered the ruling in favour of the preacher at the Limuru law court on May 4. The residents, during a protests at the Supreme Court on Friday, said such cases have eroded the public's confidence in the Judiciary. Ng'ang'a was absolved of any wrongdoing in the death of Njeri who perished in a road accident involving his vehicle. The accident occurred in July 2015, after which Ng'ang'a faced the charge of reckless driving. He was acquitted alongside his driver Simon Kuria; police officers Christopher Nzioka and Patrick Mbaya. The magistrate said the prosecution had failed to adduce enough evidence to sustain a conviction. Read: Pastor James Ng'ang'a 'has no case to answer' in death of Limuru woman During the hearings, the pastor denied causing Njeri's death on the Limuru-Naivasha highway. But the protesters, citing corruption in the judiciary, claimed witness accounts placed Ngang'a at the scene. "It was shocking for the court to acquit him," one of Njeri's kinsmen said. "We wish to reiterate that we the taxpayers cannot continue to pay judges to commit injustices against Kenyans and peg a price for justice," the lot said on Friday. They said Kenyans have observed in the previous past ,several incidences that relates to outright corruption in the judiciary. "The corruption and intentional incompetence in the judiciary are all concerted to defeat justice leaving families of victims in unbearable pain and anguish." Apart from the cries by Njeri's kinsmen, Pastor Nganga's
acquittal has led to a public outcry with the magistrate ruling being
criticised. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has ordered a fresh probe into the case with a call to the Judicial Service Commission to punish the court officials involved in the matter in the event that they erred in acquitting the preacher. More on this: Matiang'i orders fresh probe into pastor Ng'ang'a's accident case Click here for the latest political news 