ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said the massive corruption in various institutions is not 'usual' but well-planned looting of public resources. "The only thing that is new is the confidence of the thieves that they are beyond the reach of the law," he said. Mudavadi said the lords of impunity have taken advantage of the laxity by anti-corruption agencies to reap staggering amounts of public funds. "With the persistent heists of mind-boggling amounts from the Ministry of Health, IEBC, National Youth Service, Kenya Pipeline Company, National Cereals and Produce Board and now again Youth Enterprise Fund, it is obvious that budget items for various departments in government are formulated for the express purpose of stealing the proceeds," Mudavadi said. Read: State official, supplier linked to Sh9bn NYS scam lose bid to block arrest The ANC leader said the government was feigning commitment to investigate the scandals whereas it knows those behind the multi-billion fraud. "This is why for over five years, government response to mega corruption has been mute at worst and meek at best. It’s become a habit for government to generate and provoke publicity over a scandal as part of its diversionary tactics to allow investigating agencies pretend to investigate while letting the public ventilate and forget. It is a cover-up script played year in year out." In a statement on Saturday, the NASA principal pointed out that lack of a fully constituted Ombudsman office to oversight government expenditure in real-time was providing an avenue for looting. "The Auditor General and Parliament have been reduced to morticians chronicling the crimes," Mudavadi said. He said the Jubilee administration was simply deceiving the public by making public pronouncements that corruption culprits will be prosecuted. He said there already exists the Public Officers Ethics Act on misappropriation of public property which the government can easily use to firmly punish the culprits - but it just does not want to. "It simply is complicit and therefore lacks will confront the menace." Mudavadi said Kenya needs new stiffer laws to deal with corrupt public officials since the fear of corrupt individuals being blocked from holding public office through the Leadership and Integrity Act wasn't working. "We need new stiffer preventive laws to buttress Chapter 12 and 13 on principals of public finance so that public officers are truly bound to the Constitution to uphold the efficient use of public resources and be individually accountable for their actions," he said. Related: Gideon Moi to Uhuru: Crack the whip on NCPB scandal masterminds to save farmers Since the Sh9 billion NYS scandal and the NCPB fraud broke, several senior officers have stepped aside and others suspended pending investigations. They include Public Service PS Lillian Omollo and NYS Director-General Richard Ndubai. Forty employees at NYS have since recorded statements with the Department of Criminal Investigations where reports indicate arrests could be made as from next week. Others are NCPB Board CEO Newton Terer who resigned on May 19 and eight senior managers who have since been suspended by Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyiampe. The PS also placed 59 other officials of the NCPB under probe over the payment of millions of shillings to unscrupulous traders who posed as farmers. More on this; NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal Click here for the latest political news