The government has been urged to urgently bailout Muhoroni Sugar Company which was closed six years ago. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo on Monday said livelihoods were at risk following the closure of the miller. The miller was shutdown due to shortage of sugarcane. "Thousands of residents whose livelihoods depended directly and indirectly on the sugar sector are at stake. We are appealing for urgent intervention by the government," Koyoo said. The MP said farmers were the worst affected. "The government should allocate money to the miller just as it did to Mumias and Nzoia," Koyoo said. He said the situation would worsen in the next 30 days if nothing was done. Sugarcane shortage has often been blamed on inadequate funds for cane development. The entry of private millers increased the scramble for the few raw materials. The private millers have also been accused of cane poaching. State-owned firms say there are not proper regulations to deal with errant millers. Koyoo said Muhoroni was struggling with huge debts occasioned by unpaid taxes and salary arrears. The miller has not paid farmers for years. Senator Fred Outa said delayed payments had forced farmers to sell their cane to private millers. Others had adopted other crops. Private millers pay farmers within days of cane delivery. The prompt payment has encouraged poaching. "The government should punish millers who engage in cane poaching," Outa said. He said it was unfair for state industries to invest in cane development only for private millers to poach the raw materials from contracted farmers. Former Kisumu Mayor Sam Okello blamed Muhoroni's shutdown on corruption and incompetence of its managers. Last year, the miller was forced to harvest immature cane. The cane was harvested at eight months instead of 18 months required for maturity. "Harvesting immature canes indicates lack of adequate raw materials. That happens because the factory lacks funds for cane development," Okello said. Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association secretary general Richard Ogendo asked the state to revive the miller. He asked Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to tour cane growing zones to find out real challenges farmers and factory are facing. Ogendo said the lives of more than 23,000 farmers from Kisumu and Nandi counties have deteriorated due to incompetence and corruption at the company. Muhoroni faces a Sh861.7 million debt in unpaid taxes to the Kenya Revenue Authority. Click here for the latest political news 