The National Commission on Human Rights has written to the Immigration PS Gordon Kihalangwa asking him to facilitate smooth re-entry of lawyer Miguna Miguna to Kenya upon his return from Canada in line with court orders. The self-styled NRMKe General said he will return to Kenya on May 16. In a letter dated May 5, KNCHR chairperson Kagwiria Mbogori asked Kihalangwa to comply with the court directive and facilitate Miguna's entry to Kenya. This includes issuing him with a valid Kenyan passport, purchasing a flight ticket for him and facilitate the commission's entry to the Custom's clearance area at the Jomo Kenyatta Airport. Read: I'll be back on May 16, Miguna says "We will highly appreciate your feedback by Thursday, May 10. We look forward to your cooperation and support in this regard," Mbogori said. Miguna's re-entry into the country since he was first deported to Canada on February 6 has never been without drama. The government insists the lawyer who holds both Kenyan and Canadian citizenship is not a Kenyan citizen since he renounced it once he became a Canadian citizen. Miguna denies ever renouncing his Kenyan citizenship. Related: [VIDEO] Miguna refuses to get into London plane, says he is sick The lawyer's troubles with the government started when he stamped documents used for Nasa leader Raila Odinga's self-inauguration as the people's president at Uhuru Park on January 30. After the February 6 deportation, his attempted return on March 26 was thwarted when Immigration officials confined him at the JKIA for two days before he was again forced back to Canada on March 29. Miguna claimed he was drugged before he was deported. After demanding Medicare and with the intervention of the Canadian Embassy, he was admitted at Sheikh Rashid Hospital in Dubai. The lawyer later flew to Toronto on an Air Canada flight on April 1 under the escort of UAE police. He has been in Canada ever since but now wants to return to Kenya again. Also read: NRMKe leader Miguna to return to Kenya next week  Click here for the latest political news   