Khaligraph Jones, has dismissed as "nonsense" Sauti Sol's claims they will be retiring from the music industry. Khaligraph, alias the OG, also told Word Is he is about to release his first album. The rapper has been in the industry for a while now, doing singles and collabos with local and international artistes. His latest hit Mtajua Hamjui, a collabo with Msupa S, is doing really well. In an interview with Word Is he said: "The kind of energy she has is what made me opt to work with her from any other. I liked her from her interviews, the way people have been making fun of her music, and I felt that this girl has something that many people do not know in her, and if I mould her in the right way, people will understand well. "She has the potential in music and she reminds me of my beginning, when there was a lot of opposition, and because of that, I felt it necessary to have her in my song." The OG talked about his future plans. "I am releasing the album on 12th June, which will also be my birthday. The album is called Testimony 1990. It is my year of birth and I am giving out my life testimony form the beginning." He said the album consists of 17 songs with different artistes, local and international, adding that "the album is in another level". "The skills that have been incorporated doing the album compiling will set trends," Khaligraph said. Before his new song with Msupa S, he had done a collabo with Sauti Sol, a group that has been in the industry giving us hit after hit. However, Sauti Sol broke fans' hearts with the news that they have done so much in the industry and will be retiring and even relocating from Kenya. Well, Khaligraph is disappointed by that. "What I think of that is total nonsense. You can never retire from music. I wish they said that when I am present. There is no way you can retire from music. I can't let that happen. Nobody is retiring from music, especially Sauti Sol." Will he himself ever retire from music? "I am not going anywhere. Forever I will do music. My music is all passion and I don't do music to impress people, so even if it gets to a point my fans will get tired of me, I will still do it because it is within me. So there is no retiring until infinity."