The National Assembly Lands committee is on a report-writing retreat in Mombasa. It is drafting a statement on the multibillion-shilling Ruaraka land claimed by two public schools and private firms. The committee is chaired by Kitui South MP Rachael Nyamai. It is working on the report for the more than Sh3.2 billion acquisition of the land occupied by Ruaraka High and Drive Inn Primary schools. Read: Blame games in Ruaraka land probe Details: State flouted procedures in Ruaraka land purchase - CS Karoney Afrison Export-Import Limited and Huelands Limited said they are the genuine owners of the parcel. MD Francis Mburu has received Sh1.5 billion partial payment from the government for the 13.7 acres neighbouring the General Service Unit headquarters, De La Rue and Kenya School of Monetary Studies. “We are writing a comprehensive report. We have probed individuals and we expect to come up with a fair report,” a committee member said. “We cannot disclose details of our findings until we table it on the floor of the House.” The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has been probing the matter. Mburu said he owns the land and would demand additional Sh6 billion rent plus interest. “I can refund the Sh1.5 billion and get back my land. The land is registered in my name, not in the schools’ name. I have never gone to close or demand money from those schools all these years,” he said. “When I hear people say I am not considering the welfare of those pupils, I feel bad because those are actually my children. The government has been sitting on my property for the last 40 years.” The two city public schools defended their ownership of the land, saying the government set it aside as a public utility in 1966. Ruaraka High School Board of Management chairperson Nafula Kuria said the school acquired an allotment letter in 1999 after paying Sh3,066 to the Lands commissioner. But National Land Commission vice chairperson Abigael Mbagaya told the committee the two institutions do not have valid ownership documents. She said the allotment letter was irregularly issued by the Commissioner of Lands. The land is occupied by Ruaraka Secondary School, Drive Inn Primary School, a subcounty office and a chief’s office. Read: Ruaraka saga: City Hall says it’s public property, not private land More: Two Ruaraka schools say they own city land Click here for the latest political news 