Nose plugs which block out our sense of smell can double weight loss in slimmers, a study has found. The device, which is inserted into both nostrils, directs air to bypass the scent receptors to suppress appetite. People who are overweight have a greater sensitivity to food smells and higher stimulation of their appetite, which can lead to eating more. Researchers wanted to test if a reduced sense of smell could help dieters lose more weight. In a trial of obese adults, aged under 50, those who used the silicone inserts or ‘Noz Noz’ lost twice as much as the other dieters. At the start, they each weighed around 17 stone and were put on diets, with the aim of reducing their calorie intake by 500 calories. Over three months, they lost on average, 1 stone 4lbs over three months - 7.7 per cent of their total body weight - compared to 9.8lbs in the other group. Dr Dror Dicker, from Hasharon Hospital in Israel, said they were inspired to develop the device after realising people with colds had a reduced appetite. They say it could be used by people before more extreme weight loss methods such as stomach stapling or a gastric band. ‘Our pilot trial found the device significantly decreased the ability smell. And additional weight loss in under-50s using it was significant,’ he said. ‘Those who used the device used much less sugar, artificially sweetened and sugary drinks and alcohol. ‘This is something that could be tried before they have something more extreme such as surgery. It’s not medicine and it’s not something that has to be prescribed.’ Developer Adva Beck said the ‘wellness device’, which will cost £67 for a month’s supply, should be worn for up to 12 hours a day.She said it works by blocking out smells that trigger hunger and by altering hormone levels that affect appetite. The result is that people eat less and therefore lose weight. ‘The longer your wear it throughout the day, the better the effect,’ she said. ‘It is very similar to contact lenses. You just pop them in in the morning and take them out at night. ‘After two weeks you throw them away and put in a new pair.’ ‘They changed their food preference just by wearing this nasal apparatus. We are optimistic this can be one of the solutions to obesity.’ Click here for the latest political news