Kisumu county assembly is set to purchase iPads for 49 MCAs despite the previous assembly members not returning back their gadgets. In an advert published in the local dailies, the assembly invited sealed tenders from eligible and competent bidders for the supply and delivery of the Ipads. ICT committee chair George Olwal said they recommended for the purchase of the IPad after the matter was referred to their committee. He said they saw the need for assembly to go paperless and that the device would help members access reports, house business calendar, standing orders, order papers as well as the internet to undertake other county activities. “Since we are in the process of upgrading, we saw this as fit to minimize on paper transaction within the assembly and go the digital way, “he told the Star on phone. Olwal said that members who will experience difficulty in using the gadget, then they will organize for an in-house training on the same as a committee. This has however created criticism by a section of residents questioning why the same were being bought yet the other MCAs from the previous regime had not returned their gadget. Former assemblies MCAs were given iPads worth Sh5million. Despite this, they continued using papers yet the main reason for the purchase of the gadget were to reduce expenditure on printing and making the assembly ‘paperless’. Some of the MCAs who also received the gadget were re-elected to the current assembly. However, residents have questioned the decision to procure new gadgets, saying the move would burden taxpayers more. They said the former ward reps should have been told to return the 49 gadgets they were given when there term in the house ended. A Community Initiative Development group Director Chris Owala said this was a wrong move from the assembly and waste of tax payer’s money. Owala said the assembly should instead account for the Ipads that were bought during the last assembly. “The new tenders for ipad are indication that the current assembly is hell bent to defraud the public and they must be stopped, “he said adding that it was a clear sign that it would be worse than the last one. “What is so difficult in compelling the MCAs to return their gadgets so that the current members can use them, the money if any was budgeted for the purchase of the items again is a waste of cash that can be channeled elsewhere, “stated a resident Mark Okoth.