A court has recommended fresh investigations into former TV anchor Louis Otieno's link to the death of Careen Chepchumba. Former Kibera senior resident magistrate Charles Ondieki, in a judgement delivered on Tuesday, concluded that Careen's death was not by suicide. The court further ruled that the cause of Careens death was not accidental, agreeing with the state pathologists' conclusion that the woman was strangled. Read: Louis Otieno's alleged lover Careen Chepchumba was strangled - pathologist In this regard, Ondieki recommended that Otieno's nail clippings be extracted for further analysis to help establish the missing link in the case. The court has directed the police to investigate how Otieno's nail clippings, which were to undergo analysis, were mixed up. This was after the police said they found out that the nail clippings were of a woman, hence not Otieno's. Ondieki ruled that the mix-up could be because of a deliberate act or was genuine. The court directed that Otieno presents himself to the government chemist so that samples of his nail clipping can be taken afresh. In his testimony during the inquest, the media personality had told the court that Careen was his friend and that they never had a romantic relationship. He also claimed that Careen, who was a University of Nairobi student at the time of her death, was sexually assaulted by his dad during the time he knew her. However, in his findings, Ondieki dismissed Otieno's allegations of sexual assault saying that there was no evidence to back up the claims. Ondieki further blamed the police who took up the investigation for bungling the case. The court further questioned how the police could clear Otieno of any wrongdoing before they conducted forensic analysis on his phone and that of the deceased. Careen was found dead in her apartment six years ago and Otieno was one of the suspects. The police cleared him of any wrongdoing. During his testimony, Careen's dad said his daughter extorted money from him and friends in order to finance Otieno's lavish lifestyle. Also read: Careen's dad tells court daughter stole money to give Louis Otieno before her murder Read: We sought inquest for lack of sufficient proof on Careen’s killer - cop Click here for the latest political news