Gender discussions in Kenya have
traditionally taken the form of one-sided conversations that quickly degenerate
into blame game. Often, the innumerable iniquities of men in today’s
society are read out and their inadequacies paraded for all to behold. The ongoing discussions on gender equality are long overdue. Conversations
around gender expectations, roles and equity among the sexes need to be brought
to the center stage. The consistently sold (and accepted) narrative
is that men have failed our society and that this unfortunate truth must be
loudly announced at every opportunity. There are enough examples of men who have
failed spectacularly. No arguments there. The tirade against men has however
become so prominent that wiping them off the face of the earth would appear to
be a reasonable remedy. Then and only then would peace, order and good return
to the earth, right? Wrong! Society’s ills are also caused by a
poison that is just as dangerous as men's failure. I
call this poison toxic femininity and it's hardly ever discussed. Toxic femininity focuses all its attention on
men and the evils they have visited upon society. There, in that imbalanced
discourse, lies our problem. By focusing on one narrative and ignoring the
other, we have set ourselves on a path that leads everywhere else but to a
solution to the gender problems that plague us. Toxic feminists have built a career out of
bashing men. They wake up in the morning with the sole intention of wrestling
every single man they meet to the ground. They fill our timelines with insults
against men and the ancestors that sired them. In today’s world, toxic femininity makes it criminal
for a man to speak his mind, especially if doing so would mean pointing out a
divergent but valid view on the gender debate. Any pushback on the onslaught
against masculinity leads to arguments that are so devoid of decorum that any
sane person would rather avoid them altogether. Instead of attacking the root cause of
women’s inequality, toxic feminists go through shortcuts that only act as a
bandage to a festering wound full of maggots. Attacking individuals may look
like a quick win but it is superficial because systems, which are harder to
change perpetuate inequality yet if they are uprooted, the fruits will be enjoyed
forever. Action against the root causes of misogyny
and other social ills should be the priority focus. For example, don't stop at shaming
rape perpetrators but also focus on changing a criminal justice system that
fails rape victims; push for the full implementation of the two-thirds gender
rule, among other key policy decisions. A witch-hunt mentality and focus on
individuals who offend, rather than the culture that allows them to do so, is
tantamount to addressing symptoms while the root cause of the problem remains
intact. Most toxic feminists haven’t done anything
tangible to push for equality. Ask them for a status report or statistics that
paint a grim picture on inequality and they start to chew their nails in
confusion. They often spend their time in the kangaroo court of social
media fighting elitist wars instead of engaging in a sustainable fight like putting
pressure on authorities to pass laws that are pro-equality. Toxic feminists are turning a great social
movement meant to empower and free society from the tentacles of patriarchy
into a tool of repression and slavery. There is nothing to be gained
by trying to set up the genders against each other. Radio shows with skewed
subjective content to drive a partisan agenda will not sustainably change the
landscape of gender inequity. I get the frustration that
women often feel and understandably so especially after suffering many
atrocities at the hands of a patriarchal society over the years. However, we
must find a sustainable route for inter gender engagement on societal issues. Continuing on our current
path will raise a society that is bereft of virtues such as love, understanding
and tolerance. We will forfeit the integrity of the family unit and that
forfeiture, ladies and gentlemen, should it occur, would signal the end of our
society as we know it. The lifeblood of feminism, a great social
movement that has achieved incredible success for women, is now in danger of
becoming toxic. True feminists must therefore steer the ship away from the sea
of vitriol and censorship and continue pushing for progressive politics that
pass policy frameworks that makes the playing field level for the marginalised.