US President Donald
Trump said on Sunday a US team had arrived in North Korea to
prepare for a proposed summit between him and North Korean
leader Kim Jong Un, which Trump pulled out of last week before
reconsidering. Earlier, the US State Department said US and North
Korean officials had met at Panmunjom, a village in the
Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that runs along the heavily armed
border between North and South Korea. "Our United States team has arrived in North Korea to make
arrangements for the Summit between Kim Jong Un and myself,"
Trump wrote on Twitter, in Washington's first confirmation that
US officials had entered North Korea for the talks. "I truly believe North Korea has brilliant potential and
will be a great economic and financial Nation one day. Kim Jong
Un agrees with me on this. It will happen!" Trump added. In addition to those talks, White House spokeswoman Sarah
Sanders said a "pre-advance team" left for Singapore - where the
summit has been expected to take place - on Sunday morning to
work on logistics. Earlier on Sunday, South Korean President Moon Jae-in said
he and North Korea's Kim had agreed during a surprise meeting on
Saturday that the North Korea-US summit must be held. The weekend talks were the latest twist in a week of
diplomatic ups and downs over the prospects for an unprecedented
U.S.-North Korea summit, and the strongest sign yet that the two
Koreas' leaders are trying to keep the meeting on track. North Korea has faced years of economic sanctions over its
nuclear and missile programs since it conducted its first
nuclear test in 2006. The United States has struggled to slow the isolated
country's weapons programs, which have become a security
priority for Washington given Pyongyang's promise to develop a
nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the US mainland. A US official told Reuters that Sung Kim, the former U.S.
ambassador to South Korea, would lead an American delegation to
meet North Korean officials at the border. Pentagon official
Randall Schriver was part of the US team, the official said. The Washington Post first reported that the team, which also
included Allison Hooker, the Korea expert on the White House
National Security Council, met with Choe Son Hui, the North
Korean vice foreign minister. The Post said the talks at the border would continue on
Monday and Tuesday at Tongilgak, the North's building in
Panmunjom, where the truce suspending the 1950-53 Korean War was
signed. In their meeting on Saturday, Kim reaffirmed his commitment
to "complete" denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula and to a
planned summit with Trump, Moon told reporters in Seoul. "Chairman Kim and I have agreed that the June 12 summit
should be held successfully, and that our quest for the Korean
Peninsula's denuclearization and a perpetual peace regime should
not be halted," Moon said. Moon acknowledged Pyongyang and Washington may have
differing expectations of what denuclearization means and he
urged both sides to hold working-level talks to resolve their
differences. The United States has demanded the "complete, verifiable,
and irreversible" dismantlement of North Korea's nuclear weapons
program. Pyongyang has rejected unilateral disarmament and has
always couched its language in terms of denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula. In previous, failed talks, North Korea said it could
consider giving up its arsenal if Washington removed its troops
from South Korea and withdrew its so-called nuclear umbrella of
deterrence from South Korea and Japan. North Korea has tested dozens of missiles of various types
in the past two years, including one launch of its largest-ever
intercontinental ballistic missile, which is theoretically
capable of hitting anywhere in the United States, on Nov. 29. MISTRUST ON BOTH SIDES American officials are skeptical that Kim will ever fully
abandon his nuclear arsenal. Moon said North Korea was not
convinced it could trust security guarantees from the United
States. "However, during the US-South Korea summit, President
Trump clearly emphasized that we may see not only the end of
hostile relations but also economic cooperation if North Korea
denuclearizes," Moon said. Moon met Trump in Washington on Tuesday in an effort to keep
the US-North Korea summit on track. A senior South Korean official said later the two Koreas
were discussing a possible non-aggression pledge and the start
of peace treaty talks as a way of addressing Pyongyang's
security concerns before US-North Korean negotiations. A statement from North Korea's state news agency, KCNA, said
Kim expressed "his fixed will" on the possibility of meeting
Trump as previously planned. Trump on Thursday scrapped the summit after repeated threats
by North Korea to pull out over what it saw as confrontational
remarks by US officials demanding unilateral disarmament. On May 16, North Korea criticized U.S. national security
adviser John Bolton, who had called for North Korea to quickly
give up its nuclear arsenal in a deal that would mirror Libya's
abandonment of its program for weapons of mass destruction. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi was deposed and killed by
NATO-backed militants in 2011 after halting his nascent nuclear
program. Trump dismissed the so-called Libya model. Sanders, his
spokeswoman, told Fox News on May 15: "This is the President
Trump model. He’s going to run this the way he sees fit." Kim had requested a meeting with Moon to clarify what the
"Trump model" meant, Yonhap news agency of South Korea reported,
citing an unidentified foreign affairs source. Kim and Trump's initial decision to meet followed months of
war threats and insults between the leaders over the North's
nuclear program. Trump said on Saturday he was still looking at a June 12
summit in Singapore and that talks were going well. Click here for the latest political news