Ulinzi Stars are back in action today as they tackle Wazito, looking to close the gap on league leaders Gor Mahia in SportPesa Premier League. The soldiers have been in a good run of form recently and look the likeliest team to topple the defending champions this year Ulinzi coach Dunstan Nyaudo was full of respect for Wazito ahead of today’s clash that had been scheduled for Camp Toyoyo but has been shifted to Ruaraka by Wazito. “For a newly promoted team, Wazito have shown lots of strength. They have picked out some very established teams, including Mathare, Sofa and Sony Sugar, who are all former champions— leaving no doubt about what to expect in today’s encounter. They have very experienced players and are tactically fit with a coach who has the right experience, having handled a number of top teams and jobs so we have to be very cautious,” said Nyaudo. Ulinzi have played two friendly matches ahead of the Wazito game and Nyaudo is confident in the levels he has seen and the morale in camp. In the matches, Ulinzi Stars beat Eastlanders 8-1 and Liberty 4-0. Second-placed Mathare United face a tricky trip to Kakamega to tackle fast improving Kakamega Homeboyz. Mathare are win-less in five matches and they will need to be at their best to get all three points against a Homeboyz side, who ran champions Gor close in their last encounter at the Bukhungu Stadium. Relegation-threatened Sony Sugar must rediscover their home form if they are to retain their status in the top flight league. Today, they meet new boys Vihiga United who after a shaky start to their maiden appearance in the top division, have found their footing and are determined to remain among the elite at least for another season. Posta Rangers will be in Mombasa to tackle Bandari, who alongside them, were tipped to challenge for the title but have fallen short so far. Nzoia Sugar, who are comfortably ensconced in the top half of the table, will entertain Chemelil at their Sudi grounds with striker Elvis Rupia looking to add to his chart topping goal scoring tally of eleven goals. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks will be —a situation that has left the future of coach William Muluya up in the air.