A teacher accused of crushing the genitals of a Standard One pupil for playing instead of studying has been interdicted. Nyandarua County Teachers Service Commission director Abukar Hassan yesterday said Chalse Macharia was interdicted after TSC investigations found him culpable. “We have investigated and found the teacher who did that. We have taken action. The teacher has been interdicted,” he said His accomplice, Daniel Ngure, who was an employee of the school’s board of management, was also sacked while the fate of the third culprit, Bethuel Kimeria, is yet to be determined. Macharia was arrested last Friday after more than 300 parents of Kamukunji Primary School in Ol joro Orok demonstrated and disrupted learning in the school demanding action on the three teachers. The school management said Ngure will not be reinstated even if he is found innocent, because he is not a trained teacher and is also not registered by TSC. Ngure's sacking was announced during a meeting held at the school on Tuesday to explore ways to deal with crimes reported in the school. The meeting was attended by teachers, parents, board of management and education officials from Nyandarua West sub-county. Charagita MCA Wairimu Njane also attended the meeting, while Ol joro Orok MP Michael Muchira was represented by his personal assistant Jimmy Mwangi. The three teachers assaulted the pupil at Kamukunji Primary School on Wednesday last week. Parents claimed the three were drunk and disappeared from the school soon after the 11am incident. The child was kept at the school staff-room without any first aid until 4pm when his mother was called and found her son soaked in blood. He was admitted at Nyahururu Referral Hospital where doctors stitched his injured scrotum. OTHER GRIEVANCES This was not the first case of pupils assaulted at Kamukunji Primary School. Five years ago, a child identified as Wairimu Wambui was sent home in the morning but was defiled and killed on the way home. Her body was found in the bush. “We searched for her for three days and nights,” said a parent, Wanjiku Gathirimu. Another girl was also defiled after being sent away from school. These cases have never been resolved. Another parent recounted how his son was hit on the private parts by an older pupil.She spent Sh12,000 for her son’s treatment. There an agreement between her,the culprits parent and the school head teacher that the two parents share the cost,but later the culprits parents declined to honour his part,and the head teacher declined to intervene. During the Friday last week protest,the parents also said school board of management, is weak and has failed in its mandate and therefore must be disbanded and a new board constituted. The school administration,they said, has been forcing the parents to pay for weekend and holiday tuition despite the fact that tuition was banned by the government. In September last year, every parent was told to pay sh 2000 development fee but no development has been taking place. Even after paying such money the school toilets have filled up and are overflowing hence pose health risk for children. The parents are never issued with receipts for the money they pay. Nyandarua West deputy county commissioner, Hezron Nyamberi, calmed the situation after he arrived at the school in company of education officials. The parents told them that they have resolved “the school must be closed and that no learning will take place until a meeting is held between the parents, teachers, and education and security officials to seek a lasting solution.” They also demanded that all the teachers in the school be transferred. Nyamberi said he, together with education officials visited the injured pupil at hospital and also spoke with the doctor. He said Nyandarua West DCI Steve Ambani, is investigating the matter and whoever will be found culpable must be punished. VOLATILE RELATIONSHIP Nyandarua West education officer, Joan Githinji, told the parents to allow the children to go to school on Monday. She said a meeting will be held at the school on Tuesday to seek a lasting solution. On Saturday, while speaking to the Star on phone, Githinji said education office is moving very fast with investigations. She said if the teachers mentioned are found culpable, the leadership of the school will have to change. The board of management will also change and a new system will be put in place for learning environment to improve. “We also want to improve the relationship between the parents and the teachers because it is volatile. They hate each other”, she said She said it is documented in the black book in the school that boys have a habit of kicking one another on the private parts while playing. She said the education will ascertain if this behavior is due to school failure to instill discipline or if it emanates from parents. The parents, she said, have owned up to drinking and the teachers are accused of the same. This moral breakdown can affect the school, she said. “But we must bring the parents and teachers together for the good of the children. All we want is quality education”. MORE ROT During the Tuesday meeting more rot, including among the parents and society around the school was exposed. Zachary Ndirangu, a retired teacher recounted how, when he was a class two teacher at Kamukunji primary, in 2007, a pupil told him she will bring him something good. “The following day the innocent child came carrying a three litres container filled with busaa which she innocently handed over to me. I took her and the busaa to the then deputy head teacher, Mrs Muhoro. We summoned the parent and solved the matter,” he said. Another parent who requested anonymity told the Star there was a time some boys stole alcohol brought to school by one of the teachers. They mixed with water so that many of them could share. The teacher moved to the nearby Corner shopping Centre which has four bars, three shops, an agro-vet shop and one butchery, it was 1pm, and he was later found lying in a ditch, drunk. The Star found the unhealthy condition the children, particularly those in ECDE study under. Safe for studying in a crowded dusty class, they are exposed to grave risk since they use filled up toilets which are muddy and sometimes overflowing. The staff toilet is also pathetic. Read: Three Nyahururu teachers flee after smashing standard one pupil's testicles Click here for the latest political news