Life plays out on levels. What you
encountered in high school is different from your workplace normal. Corporate
life is a different level, a different ball game requiring a different
mindset and behaviour. High school thinking will fail you in the boardroom. It’s challenging to rise to the next
level to discover you don’t have the skills to function there. Your last role
involved computers and number crunching, but now, your new role involves people
and strategy – and you’re not a people person. You lack the people skills to
operate effectively. Previously, you didn’t mind – you could get by. But now,
dealing with people is vital. What do you do? Here are three tips. Get
Quiet: It is important to acknowledge that you are out of your comfort
zone. Things are different now, the familiar is gone. You have a new normal.
First, get quiet and observe. The importance of silence on a new level
is to help you buy time, enough to understand the parameters of function. Also,
quiet conveys to others that you’re not going to instantly swing into the
‘expert’ mode. It makes them patient with you, hence willing to help you. Quiet
observation forces the environment to reveal hidden information that noise
conceals. You see more by watching in silence. Unlearn: It’s a new
level. This means the playbook for your last familiar level is obsolete. You
must consciously accept this fact and embrace your new reality. It’s tough to
apply old rules in a new place. It quickly births conflict. Be careful to know what old rules to let
go. You must unlearn your old habits to fit into a new level. Also, find ways
to adapt as the new level stretches your mind beyond its previous dimensions. Relearn: On new levels,
you find new rules. And you would suddenly find yourself in a mind battle. Your
comfort zone would try to pull you back as the next level tries to push you
forward. Your ability to win this fight determines your success in your new
place. The outcome of this mental battle determines how you interact with next
level rules. The next level is a place of refinement
and its rules are not designed to crush you. The entry into a new level means
it is time for you to grow in capacity. Your willingness to relearn new rules
is the growth process. So, relearning is an opportunity to reskill. And that’s
how you stay relevant. Email:
etoolbox@theyouideology.com