Like most Kenyans, my holidays to the coast usually involve hopping on a direct flight to Mombasa, Watamu, Diani or whatever destination of choice. This time, however, on a trip with the Kenya Tourism Board, we decided to take the scenic route, get off earlier and explore Taita Taveta county, whose attractions and culture I must admit I was not very conversant with before this trip.  Tawi Conservancy The plan was simple; we would get on the morning SGR train, get off at Emali then head off to Amboseli National Park through the Eastern gate. However, we missed the morning train and had to get a 4x4 jeep, which we drove all the way to Tawi Lodge, an intimate luxurious eco-camp within Tawi Conservancy only 10 minutes from Amboseli, which at this time of the year offers stunning views of Mt Kilimanjaro’s snow-capped peak (You would be forgiven for dismissing it for a cloud).  The thing about exploring the wild at this time of the year is that the vegetation is greener than you’ve likely ever seen it, but the roads are very muddy and slippery. Unsurprisingly, we got stuck while on an afternoon game drive, and several villagers had to come to our rescue while we wandered off into a nearby Manyatta. There, we swapped stories, learnt about each other’s cultures, played with goats and unsuccessfully — because all the wood was wet — tried to start a fire without a matchbox.  Tsavo West National Park On our way to Tsavo the next morning, our car kept skidding in the mud and ultimately slid into a small ditch on the side of the road. The driver kept charging on at top speed with the car tilted at almost 180 degrees, until we made it out. Tsavo itself was another first for me. Attractions here include the clear Mzima Springs as well as wildlife like leopards, cheetahs, wild dogs, buffaloes, antelopes and more. I was more fascinated by the elephants we saw in various watering hotels because not only am I fascinated by elephants, these were a beautiful shade of red because of the colour of the soil they go mudding in.  Taita Hills Wildlife Sanctuary Taita Taveta is home to what is now referred to as battlefield tourism, which involves touring memorials, cemeteries, battlefields and any other related historic sites. According to our guide, some of the most brutal wars during World War I were fought in this county between German forces from Tanzania and British forces protecting colonies in Kenya, Uganda and Somalia. Here you can visit and see the remnants of that war, including the derelict Voi-Taveta railway line, which served as a supply route to the British army as they fought to maintain their strongholds in East Africa.  To end things on a lighter note,we had an incredible sundowner atop Taita Hills, complete with a local group of widowed women, who played drums so enchantingly that pretty soon, everyone was dancing wildly as though possessed, in the way that only African drums can ensnare you.