The Royal day is finally here. Everyone is looking forward to the biggest wedding of the 2018 calendar...Yeah the UK royal family is opening its doors to the first black princess...from today even fairy tales will have to be re-written for sure. So with no English Premier League or major football games happening this weekend, all bars/clubs will be showing the royal wedding. Another chance for Kenyans to drink and spend time away from their loved ones. In Uganda I doubt they will be following the royal wedding because they will be having their own Royal ceremony, with South Africa President coming Cyril Ramaphosa expected in Uganda today to pay 100 head of cattle, among other gifts, in his son Andile's dowry ceremony. The bride to be, Rwakairu Bridget, is a niece of former Uganda Prime Minister and presidential candidate Amama Mbabazi. With weddings happening all over the place, it’s only fair to discuss what happened in our courts this week. The High Court has declared that couples whose marriages end in divorce are only entitled to what each contributed during the marriage. Justice John Mativo, in a landmark ruling, rejected a bid to have couples share matrimonial property 50-50 upon divorce. Now that a person cannot walk into marriage and walk out with more than what they deserve according to the judge, I think it’s important that #TheRaverend educates all couple on the way forward. Ladies first: If you get married please don’t get comfortable and don’t agree to be a housewife and allow the man to provide for you as you raise his seeds, zii! You better get a job. And if the man insists on providing for you to stay at home ask him to provide servants so you can start your own biashara/business. God forbid if that marriage doesn’t work, you will go back to your parents empty-handed. Also, the girl child needs to perfect the art of saving. Never spend all the cash your hubby throws at you. For every 1K spend only 200 bob and save 800 bob, no jokes! Marriage is now an investment plan, otherwise you will end up wasting your precious time on a man who will leave you for a slay queen and you will have nothing to show for it. As for the boy child who ends up with a rich lady, please make sure everything your rich wife buys you is in your name. And when you're planning all the expensive trips where you go smash her always over-quote and skim from the top because the day she decides she wants another Ben10 utalamba lolo! What #TheRaverend is saying, in nutshell, is simple: All married couples should have a gold-digger mentality unless you want to live a five/ten-year relationship with only your underwear!!!! ION the rains are still pounding us left right and centre and the circus is still in town with Nairobi Gafana forcing a Canadian citizen to be his DG. The religious leaders on the other hand are calling for amnesty for all leaders involved in corruption and the Interior ministry, which is in charge of security, wants to give watchmen firearms. This is where we ask the driver of the circus bus to stop so we all alight because it’s just too much to handle.