Eight unscrupulous traders pocketed Sh1.4 billion by posing as maize farmers and delivering thousands of bags to National Cereals and Produce Board depots. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri yesterday revealed how each trader used their ID cards to make hundreds of deliveries to the Eldoret depot within three months. “Only eight of them had been paid about Sh1.4 billion. That was enough cash to pay more than 4,000 farmers. If they could have paid the genuine farmers and pay the traders later, these complaints from farmers would not have been there,” Kiunjuri said. According to Kiunjuri, Celestine Chepchirchir a trader made 786 deliveries within 102 days, delivering a total of 226,108 bags of 50kg each. She was paid Sh333 million. Kiunjuri told the National Assembly Agriculture committee that Chepchirchir used ID card number 13207544 but the records show that she made the deliveries using the names Stephen Maiyo and Stella Chepkorir. “This means she made seven deliveries to the depot per day. How could a depot manager allow any individual to make 786 deliveries without raising the alarm, yet we had issued them with clear guidelines?” Kiunjuri asked. On her part, Alice Wanjiku Githaiga used ID card number 4906065 but the records showed the names of Alice Wanjiku Githaiga, Andrew Kipkorir and Alice Wanjiku that were used for delivery. Wanjiku made 47 deliveries and received Sh21 million for 39,869 bags of 50kgs. Another trader Stephen Maiyo used his ID card, but the records showed the names of Stella Chepkorir and Stephen Maiyo. He made 256 deliveries. “In this particular matter, who is the big fish? The big fish is the lady who delivered maize and was paid Sh333 million. If that is not the big fish, where is the fish?” Kiunjuri asked. Read : Inside story of the NCPB maize scam At the Kisumu depot, Caroline Chepchumba was supposed to receive Sh216 million for supplying 121,617 bags of 50kgs but the board paid her Sh96.2 million. She is claiming Sh119.7 million. These are traders who supplied more than 100,000 bags to the deports. Kiunjuri further told the committee chaired by MP Adan Haji Ali (Mandera South) that the eight traders delivered the maize within three months, but received their cash between three to five days after delivery. He tabled before the committee names of ] 63 additional traders who failed the vetting process, but collected Sh1 billion after supplying 1,012,270 bags of 50kgs. The vetting was meant to verify whether they were genuine farmers. “An additional 63 suppliers failed the vetting process, despite supplying maize valued at Sh1,575,494,696. Out of this, they earned Sh1,077,272,183, has been paid,” Kiunjuri said. “We are sending auditors to verify all stores. They will count all bags in the stores and verify whether the 6.5 million bags are indeed there.” The CS said the government had budgeted Sh7 billion, but spent Sh11 billion in purchasing maize from 12, 287 farmers for the Strategic Food Reserve. “The budget provision for the purchase of maize was Sh7 billion, the highest ever set aside by the government. However, we have ended up spending Sh11 billion,” he said. Kiunjuri told the committee that 59 officers at NCPB are under preliminary investigations and that his ministry has embarked on restructuring the board in three months. “The NCPB CEO resigned and I raised concerns on the manner in which he resigned. I didn’t find the reason why he hurriedly resigned. But we would still have suspended him and called for his investigation. So far, we have sent home 13 senior officers from NCPB,” he said. He said that the government did not lose any cash since all maize had been delivered to NCPB. He questioned, however, why payments were made to traders instead of farmers. But Nandi Hills MP interjected, “I think the CS is misleading this committee by saying that they will only establish whether money was lost after fully compiling their audit. We have seen people pocketing millions of shillings. He cannot therefore tell us no money was lost while the genuine farmers were left out.” Also read : Mandago and Sudi defend traders in maize scandal Click here for the latest political news