Kenyans on social media have criticised Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for introducing 24-hr free internet. "Jambo, we've got some good news for you this evening! JKIA is now a 24HR free WiFi zone," Kenya Airports Authority said on May 9. Initially the airport granted access to the WiFi for only one hour after which users were subjected to pay to use the service. But on Friday, Kenyans on Twitter said the free internet service came in late. Others praised the move. "In this day and age you are tweeting about having WiFi for 24 hours? That's like a car manufacturer tweeting about aircon," @m_wanderi said. @mohammedhersi said: "This is excellent news. You now beat many airports around the world who give two or three hours free WiFi." He added: "Please ensure speed is improved and also system ought to remember once you've logged in as a returning passenger. I hope Mombasa will be next." @Kamau_Wanyoike said: "Good move. Sometimes internet is the only form of communication a passenger has. Unlike hotels that still charge a premium for a service now considered almost essential." "Guys, you've really upped the game at JKIA. Was there yesterday and for a project still ongoing, kudos guys. From the messy parking to well lit, secure, with efficient staff all over," @ngangaking said. @robinnjogu said: "Go to Heathrow... Their Wi-Fi doesn't even work. Kudos to @KenyaAirports for this. But 24hrs is a bit too much... People will just hang around the airport for no reason. Bring it down to three or four hrs max," The free internet has made JKIA in the same league as O. R. Tambo International Airport in South Africa, Kigali International Airport in Rwanda, among others. It also comes months before the launch of direct flights between Kenya and the USA. Read: US in 15 hours: KQ's maiden New York flight to cost Sh89,000 On March 7, JKIA won the 'Best	Improved	Airport in Africa' award for excellence	in	customer	service. The Nairobi airport was recognised in the aviation industry’s	most	comprehensive	passenger	service bench marking programme - the prestigious	2017 Airports	Council	International	Airport Service	Quality Awards. Managing	Director Jonny Andersen said the	recognition	was	timely as the JKIA is	undergoing major	reorganisation and modernisation	works to stamp	it’s position	as a	regional hub. More on this: JKIA named Best Improved Airport in Africa for 'excellent' customer care Click here for the latest political news 