A former Barclays Bank manager who was sacked over insurance fraud has lost her bid for reinstatement and compensation. High Court judge Onesmus Makau on Friday said the bank was right to dismiss Caroline Akumu Nyadiero for trying to get treatment for her brother Isaiah Owuor using her employer’s medical scheme. Nyadiero’s brother was admitted at Pandya Hospital in Mombasa after being stabbed. Hospital admission forms indicate that Owuor was admitted in the name of Nyadiero’s ex-husband. Nyadiero signed the treatment documents. She however denied signing the forms and blamed her ex-husband for the fraud. Makau said Nyadiero’s signature on the admission forms matched those in court affidavits and other documents. A hospital clerk, only identified as Vicky, also witnessed when Nyadiero signed the admission forms. "The form was signed by Nyadiero declaring that her employer was to pay the bill. After comparing the signatures by the claimant on various documents including affidavits, letters and work-related forms, I am satisfied that she is the one who signed the admission form,” Makau said "The said form contained false information about the identity of the patient and his relationship with the claimant. The information was meant to have her brother admitted and treated at the expense of her employer’s medical scheme. That was obviously fraud whichever way one looks at it and as such, the employer was justified to terminate her services.” Nyadiero claimed that she stopped her ex-husbands attempt to use the card for the treatment of her brother. The two men had been drinking together before the stabbing incident.  AUCTIONED Perpetua Ndunda, a care manager under AON Kenya which manages Jubilee insurance covers, said she uncovered the fraud at a clinic. Ndunda said the card was returned to Owuor. It was not used because the fingerprints did not match. Smart cards can only be used alongside the holder’s finger print to avoid fraud. Nyadiero later paid her brother’s hospital bill in cash. Nyadiero had outstanding loans totaling Sh2.9 million when she was sacked. The bank deducted her final dues of Sh146,287 and auctioned her house and car for Sh900,000 and Sh500,000 respectively. The cash was used to offset the debt. Click here for the latest political news