The government will spend Sh600 million to fight armyworms this season. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri on Wednesday said another Sh1 billion will be set aside for research and purchase of pesticides for future use. Last year, the government spent Sh300 million to buy pesticides. Kiunjuri said the money will be disbursed through the a newly formed Fall Armyworm Multi-Institutional Technical Team. The team comprises government scientists, local researchers and international research organisations. Read: Panic as armyworms invade farms again It’s task is to find ways to mitigate infestation. “Last year, the armyworm destroyed maize crops worth Sh3 billion, about 20 per cent of thetotal harvest. The current invasion could be worse, hence the need to look for a long-term solution,” Kiunjuri said. He was speaking after a brainstorming meeting on armyworm invasion at the Kenya Plant and Health Inspectorate Services in Nairobi. Kiunjuri said the pest is a serious threat to the government’s Big Four agenda. The armyworm is often suppressed by heavy rain but Kiunjuri said it could have hibernated. It is often voracious after such hibernation. More than 800,000 acres of maize have been destroyed by the worm since it was first reported in 2016. Read: Spray soap solution to kill armyworms, Nguna tells farmers TECHNOLOGY Scientists have warned that a new armyworm species, S. Aperture, could spread to Kenya. Zachary Kinyua said it has already been reported in the West African countries of Nigeria, Benin, Cameroon and Gabon. Kinyua is a scientist at the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation’s crops health institute. “It is more dangerous because it affects even potatoes, cassava, broccoli and amaranth,” he said. Defence CS Raychelle Omamo has called for use of technology and space derived data to fight the armyworm. “The multi-institutional technical team can use remote sensing and observation to track the pests,” she said. Kenya has sent experts to Brazil to learn how to contain the pests. More: Farmers struggle to get rid of armyworms Click here for
the latest political news 