Homeboyz RFC and Impala Saracens clash in an intriguing Enterprise Cup final today at the RFUEA ground. The two sides were not given any chance to qualify for the showpiece final but upset the form book after stunning fancied sides. Homeboyz beat outgoing champions KCB 12-10 while Kabras beat Impala in another slim 16-13 scoreline in the semifinals last weekend. This will be Impala’s first Enterprise Cup final since 2010 and head coach Frank Ndong said the boys are ready to claim the coveted prize they last won in 2005 when they beat Mwamba 24-19 . They lost the 2009 and 2010 finals to bitter rivals Quins 19-6 and 10-3 and Ndong hopes it will be third time lucky. “I hope we can get over the line this time round. It will boil down to accuracy, decision making and desire and we are ready,” added Ndong Both sides will be without their key players who are currently with the Kenya Simbas preparing for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers next month. Ndong will start with skipper Davis Makori who is expected to marshal the forwards alongside Steve Juma, Tyson Okoth and Paul Mutsami. In the backs, Xavier Bett, Mark Kwemoi, Ian Minjire and Richard Sidindi are the picks. On their part, Homeboyz have made one change for the encounter. Elvin Asena replaces Meshack Akenga on the bench due to illness. Polycarp Odhiambo, who was on the scoresheet in the win over KCB last weekend, starts at lock while another try scorer from last weekend, Alvin Otieno, is on the bench alongside William Diffu and Elfas Etemesi. Michael Wanjala is at fullback while talisman Leonard Mugaisi and Bush Mwale, who play for Kenya Sevens, are on the wings for Homeboyz. The deejays are yet to win the trophy while Impala have won it eight times in their history. Homeboyz lost 27-3 to KCB in the 2015 final Weather conditions could play part in the final with the recent rains pounding the city making the playing surface muddy and wet. Emmanuel Marete will be referee assisted by Paul Odera and Vincent Owino while James Absaloms takes charge of citing duties with Ian Amogola serving as the match commissioner.