HIV prevalence rate in Kenya has been dropping in the last seven years, National Aids Control Council says. Currently, the prevalence rate stands at 5.7 per cent. "There has been a decline but it is not sufficient to achieve our target. We’re not doing so well when it comes to adolescents and young people," NACC director Dr Nduku Kilonzo said on Monday. "We are not seeing the decline we need to make to be able to inflict the epidemic and say we are moving towards control," she said. Read: HIV rates high among Elgeyo newborns as mothers shun hospitals - experts The annual infections among adolescents and young people currently stand at 35,000. This translates to 97 new infections daily. Dr Kilonzo said there were huge gaps in terms of program dissemination and urged parents to take part in the discussions towards sex and sexuality. "We need to begin having genuine conversations about sex and sexuality. Majority of young people within the age bracket of 15-24 are turning to the internet for information that we as parents can provide them in a correct manner," she said. Echoing the same sentiments was Chief Director of Health Nairobi County Dr Thomas Ogaro who said dissemination of age-appropriate information - seen as a missing link in addressing this burden - has not been easy, as the idea is constantly challenged by different groups in the society. “Parents and schools will not talk about HIV. Evangelical churches have been collecting signatures to petition against the introduction of sex education in schools,” he said. There has been a heated and divisive debate on whether the government should introduce age-appropriate comprehensive sexuality education to students as young as eight. Counties have adopted training program services and clinics to help give the necessary education on the HIV stalemate. "Several counties have experienced a significant decline in HIV related infections while some not as much. Adopting a fast-track plan will help counties address and deliver on these issues," Nduku said. Also read: 46% of new HIV infections among adolescents and young people  Click here for the latest political news 