AFC Leopards have an opportunity to get maximum points when they entertain bottom-placed Nakumatt in a SportPesa Premier League encounter this afternoon. Leopards have watched on with envy as rivals Gor Mahia hog all the headlines and despite bringing in new coach, Rodolfo Zapata, their recent performances have not improved and are now nine points off top spot. However, they will not get a better chance to give their Argentine coach his first taste of victory on Kenyan soil when they entertain a Nakumatt side that has won only twice this season. Ezekiel Odera is likely to be fit for the clash and he will be a big boost for Leopards as his goals have been key to the team remaining with an outside chance of winning the title. Nakumatt, on the other hand, have shown improvement recently if their victory over Zoo Kericho is anything to go by. This indicates that, with the arrival of a new financial backer, they are ready to scrap their way out of the drop zone. They will, however, need to be weary of a Leopards side that is determined to finish the first leg strongly and run for the title in the second half of the season. Prior to this 4pm kick off, third-placed Mathare United will be hoping to cure their recent wobbles with a much needed win against Bandari. Mathare have not won in their last four matches and have seen themselves drop from a healthy lead atop the standings to sit five points shy of leaders Gor. The dockers too have flattered to deceive and must show consistency if they are to ever win their first league title. Winning away matches against title contenders such as Mathare will go a long way to show they have what it takes to one day become Kenyan champions. Sofapaka host Zoo in Narok hoping to add to their first victory under John Baraza, against Vihiga United, and stay with the chasing pack in the race for the title. Tomorrow, resurgent Tusker get their first real test under Robert Matano when they entertain a Kariobangi Sharks side that seems to have lost their way somehow in their second season in the Premier League.