A doctor at the Kenyatta National Hospital has developed a new technology that will transform the management of fractures/broken bones in children aged between 0-5 years. Dr Zachariah Kimengich developed the hip-Spica table with a leg extension in 2017 which has been under a trial phase with 200 procedures having been performed successfully. A Spica table is used to provide both stability and maneuverability while applying a hip spica cast. Prior to the innovation, doctors would use jerry cans, plaster modifications, wood for positioning, a metallic crest or simply having to hold the child in their hands while another orthopedic technician tries to set the broken bones and apply the cast (called a spica cast). The said tools according to the doctor have been causing misalignment of the bones and disability in children due to lack of proper equipments to treat the broken bones. “For the past 15 years, I have been performing operations on children with broken bones with out-dated tools which were not as effective and efficient as they could be thus prompting me to develop a 'paediatric hip-Spica table'” With the new table, Kimengich explained that a single doctor can be able to perform the operation and will reduce pain in children during managing fracture of the femur, long hospitalization and cost of medical treatment. The table requires an orthopedic to simply place the child on the table, then put the heel into the leg extension, and crank the extension forward until the bones are properly aligned. The doctor then applies the hip-Spica cast to the child, ensuring with over 95% accuracy proper alignment of the bones. The new table according to Kimengich means no more permanent disability and less pain during the operation. The broken bones he explained are as a result of accidents, fall, trauma and even assault and each hospital conduct an average of between 20-50 procedures in a month. According to the Dr., the cost of the hip-spica table is shs 70,000 and the procedure for treating a broken bone goes for shs 2,000. “I used my own money to develop this table after seeing what children go through under my watch. Kenyatta is the only hospital with a spica table. Most of the hospitals do not have the right equipment causing shortening of the limbs, high cost of health and majority of the children end up being admitted,” Kenyatta has been receiving referrals from Mama Lucy and Mbagathi hospital following the new technology. Kimengich said he needs shs 10 million to produce 200 hip-scipa tables and have them distributed to other hospitals to avoid needless disabilities in broken bones. He has already identified a local company that is able to manufacture a hip =spica table. “I need support from the government to have this initiative adopted countrywide. I am also looking forward to meet the President who should launch this initiative especially because he is keen on universal healthcare coverage,” he said. Click here for the latest political news