Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has said the government would spare no effort to ensure flood victims in Mandera get assistance. He said the state is monitoring the situation across Kenya as many parts are affected by floods. Wamalwa, who spoke in Mandera yesterday, was accompanied by his trade counterpart Adan Mohamed and senior government officials. Wamalwa had made stop overs in other areas badly affected by flooding. He reassured Kenyans that the government would help all the people in need. Hundreds of people have been left homeless in Mandera after River Daawa burst its banks. The hardest hit places are Takaba and Elwak subcounties. The situation is made worse by impassable roads. They have been cut off by torrential rains and getting relief assistance to the displaced people is a difficult task. CS Mohamed says the government is seeking for long-term solutions for flooding. Among the areas being looked into include improving infrastructure. Mandera has lagged behind for many years because successive regimes did not develop the county. “We need to start thinking of concrete solutions. It is unfortunate that when there is drought lives are lost, and when there is rain the area is cut off because of flooding,” he said. The prices of commodities such as onions, potatoes and eggs have gone up because of the floods. Mandera South MP Aden Haji said the heavy rains have left a trail of destruction. He appealed to the national and county government to work together and help displaced people. Haji, who is also the National Assembly's Agriculture Committee chairman, said property worth millions of shillings has been destroyed and displaced people are living in squalor. “Hospitals are flooded and it is difficult for people to access quality medical care. Pit latrines are overflowing because of flooding. We are appealing to the Ministry of Health to be proactive so as to prevent an outbreak of waterborne diseases,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 