Last
year David Ole Maapia nearly lost his herd of 48 cows to
crippling drought in southern Kenya's Kajiado County. To avoid repeating the experience, the Maasai pastoralist,
whose culture has long rested on cattle herding, has decided to
switch to something more resilient - sheep and goats. "With this weather I can't keep cattle for more than a day,"
he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation at a bustling market in
Isinya, where he was buying goats. Kenya has seen heavy rains this year in many parts of the
country. But in other years more regular and severe droughts are
depleting water and pasture and decimating pastoralists herds. To limit livestock losses, pastoralists like Ole Maapia are
opting to sell drought-threatened cattle to buy goats, sheep and
camels, which they say can better withstand erratic weather. Ole Maapia has already bought more than 200 goats and sheep,
and hopes to have more than a thousand by the end of the year. "If I sell them all during the festive period, I will have
enough money to buy a small piece of land to build rental homes
for those working in Nairobi", about 60 km from Isinya, he said. VULNERABLE TO DROUGHT Cattle are more likely to suffer in droughts than hardier
goats, sheep or camels, scientists say. According to a study released in February by the Kenya
Markets Trust, a business association that promotes market
growth, cattle populations in semi-arid parts of Kenya have
decreased by 26 percent in the past 40 years. The number of sheep and goats increased by 76 percent during
the same period, the study said. Cattle thrive best in temperatures between 10 to 30 degrees
Celsius, said Mohammed Said of Kenya Markets Trust and one of
the lead authors of the study. So as climate change brings hotter summers, cattle are
becoming less well suited to arid regions of the country, he
said. In contrast, smaller animals such as goats are better able
to tolerate high temperatures and so are an attractive
alternative for pastoralists, he added. Parting from one's cattle can be difficult, said Ole Maapia,
as they have long been considered a Maasai pastoralist's most
precious asset. "But many did not survive last year's dry spell, so we are
investing in animals that can cope with tough conditions," he
said. PREVENTING CONFLICT Prolonged drought has created increased competition over
resources such as land and water and sparked conflict, local
people say. When some pastoralists lose their animals due to harsh
conditions, they raid and steal animals from other communities
to replenish their stock, said Ole Maapia. "This leads to fights with guns, burned homes and sometimes
even deaths," he said. Finding alternative and more stable sources of income,
including by investing in sheep, goats and camels, could help
avoid conflict, explained Said, particularly with weather
expected to grow more extreme in coming years. Salad Boru, an Isiolo County local official, thinks owning
more goats and sheep also may be helpful in fending off cattle
raiders. "In many cases, bandits are not interested in small animals.
They prefer stealing cattle as they are seen as more
prestigious," he said. The Kenyan government is investing in other measures as well
to prevent conflict over scarcer resources, according to
Laikipia deputy governor John Mwaniki. Last year four county governments set up the Amaya Triangle,
an initiative to grow and store animal fodder as a cushion
against pasture losses during droughts. "Following massive cattle deaths during extreme droughts, we
are establishing fodder banks to help fatten the most impacted
animals," Mwaniki said. "Climate change does not recognise boundaries," he added.
"So we cannot solve a problem in Laikipia only, or conflict will
carry on in neighbouring counties." Click here for the latest political news