The county government of Siaya has allocated 24 acres to construct The Barack Obama Univeristy in Kogelo village. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga on Wednesday said plans were underway to construct a main campus at Kogelo, in honor of President Barack Obama who traces his routes from the village. The governor said the institution would play a major role in providing unique programmes targeting the 14 counties that share the lake basin region with a common goal of alleviating wanton poverty. Rasanga also said the county will host the planned education conference comprising the 14 counties in honor of Obama, whom he described as a great scholar. “When I recently visited Harvard University and the mention of Obama’s name elicited a lot of anxiety hence the need to kick off the project earnestly,” he said. He however said existing technical institutions like the Siaya institute of technology would not be phased out saying they are key in provision of technical skills to the youths at middle level courses. Rasanga was speaking at his office after meeting a US based Professor Michael Muiga,a renowned civil engineer professor. Professor Muiga who was the Policy Staff Member of President Barack Obama,re-election campaign 2012 said it was disheartening that the project had not been completed during Obama’s second term in office. Muiga pointed that the University will be offering unique courses adding that some are currently not offered in most of the universities in the country. He added that school of Government will offer degree on county government and governance adding that democracy and Institutions management will also be offered. The academician added that the University will also provide Institutional management, infrastructure management aimed at changing the dilapidated infrastructure in Siaya County. “We will offer industrial, material, foundation, petroleum and irrigation engineering at the school of engineering,” he added. Muiga added that already he has engaged former US senator Bob Graham who has expressed willingness to support the university achieve its academic status. The professor said once the University starts providing the programmes, retired US professors will be engaged in teaching courses which lacks local lecturers. He added that the establishment of the University will put president Obama’s name in the education circles just like George Washington University in US named after the former President. Rasanga added that the key programmes to be rolled out once the institution kicks off would include irrigation, tropical medicine and law given that Obama is a lawyer by profession. He added that artifacts including president Obama’s childhood history and speeches would be collected and assembled in an archive for historic purposes. Rasanga added that they are currently collaborating with Maseno University to ensure other parallel programmes are undertaken at the Siaya Agricultural Training Institute in preparation for the main campus to be completed. He regretted that the process of establishing the University while Obama was still in the helm as the president was met by a myriad of hitches ranging from family feuds on its naming to political interference. Rasanga assured that with the new found relationship between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nasa leader Raila Odinga, the yet to be established institution would receive massive support from both National and county governments. The governor was accompanied by Professor Achola Waw, the chairman of the committee on the construction of Barack Obama University and area MCA Joseph Mboha among others. Waw said that the constituent college seeks to enroll the first batch of students in September this year as they push in earnest for the establishment of the main campus in Kogelo. “We intend to start with three flagship programmes that include school of agricultrure, commerce and education as we seek to expand gradually,” added Waw. The academician added that already the renovation of lecture halls, laboratory, abolition block and computer libraries have been completed. He added that they are currently waiting for the commission for the University education to visit the site and approve the workmanship before kicking off the parallel programmes. Waw said that already a draft paper has been crafted seeking to be adopted by the Siaya County government and Maseno university that will mentor the institution from its infancy stages. “We have already developed a master plan and the only thing remaining is to open a bank account,” added Waw saying they seek to synchronize with the other university in September. Area MCA Joseph Mboha said that he will rally the assembly in ensuring that the institution enjoys political goodwill that has since been lacking. Mboha added that the project would open up the economy of the region including providing unique courses that are not provided by other rival higher institutions of learning. Others in attendance included County secretary George Anyona, chief of staff Walter Okello and Red Cross regional representative Kevin Dosso. 