Nairobi MCAs and Speaker Beatrice Elachi have said the tug of war between Governor Mike Sonko and senior government officials is hurting development in the city. Elachi said the assembly is certain efforts to silence Sonko in Nairobi are propagated by 'tenderpreneurs'. "We are now calling for a truce. We have had enough. His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta should now intervene and end the fight between Sonko and the said senior officials within government," she said. Elachi added that if the national government is fighting with Sonko because of county functions, Uhuru should then table an MoU before the assembly for ratification. The MCAs on Friday refuted claims that they plan to impeach Sonko. Last week, Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe said Sonko has failed and the party plans to impeach him. “The impeachment will proceed and it has to do with failures to deliver to the people as was pledged by the party during campaigns. He can throw tantrums but they will have no consequence. We want action, not lies,” he said. Majority leader Abdi Guyo and majority chief whip Mwaura Chege dismissed the claims as baseless, rumours and uncalled for. "We have no intention, motivation or plan whatsoever to impeach the Governor," Mwaura said. He said the procedure of removing a governor is clearly stated in the County Government Act 33 and Article 181 of the Constitution gives the grounds for removal of any governor. "As such, we have seen no reason up to now to remove our governor," he said. The MCAs said they are in full support of Sonko and his plans for Nairobi. "The spokesman of our party is President Uhuru Kenyatta and he is the only person allowed to speak on behalf of the party. Any other person is a busybody," said Guyo They urged the National Government Officials to allow Sonko to settle in his office. "We ask some official National Government to allow Sonko do his work. You cannot expect a city which had been run down for over 30 years to be fixed within eight months," said Guyo He further said the county assembly has recommended Sonko to be given ample time to discharge his mandate. "I think he has a contract with Nairobi people for five years." I don't expect any person of sound mind to expect the Governor to deliver within eight months. It is not possible and cannot be possible unless you are malicious," said Guyo. Nairobi has been on the spot for having deplorable roads, overflowing sewage, shortage of water and lack of medicine in the county’s health facilities among other issues. This has attracted the governor’s critics who have branded him a failure. Guyo further urged Nairobi people to give Sonko time to deliver his manifesto and will Judge him after five years of his leadership. In addition, the MCAs requested the National Government to not meddle with the duties of the County Government. They pointed out the County Assembly has the capability to oversight the Governor If he goes astray. The MCAs, however, maintained their stand on the nomination of Miguna Miguna as the Deputy Governor and said they will not approve him. Already, Jubilee MCAs who are the majority have vowed to reject Miguna’s nomination once his name is brought before the floor of the house. "As a house, we are not going to support the nomination of one Miguna Miguna. Our stand is clear and nobody should speak for us," said Guyo Elachi had earlier said the assembly will only vet Miguna once the government clarifies his citizenship status since the government forcefully deported him out claiming he had renounced it. The Assembly is currently on recess till June 5.           