As the country’s leading boxers prepare for the upcoming 2018 National Boxing League season opener, Kenya Prisons coach Morris ‘Kawata’ Maina has promised to come back stronger and better this time round. The 1987 All African Games gold medalist, admitted that they are tired of living in the shadows of Kenya Defence Forces and Police ‘Chafua Chafua’ who have since restricted them to third spot over the years. Speaking at their training base in Nairobi’s Kalolelni yesterday, Maina promised to get Prisons’ game back on track after beefing up. All has not been well at the Warders’ camp especially with the transition they have had to undergo over the last two years. Prisons last won the National League title in 1999 and have since not fielded a full team in the league, which starts at Madison Square Gardens in Nakuru from May 10-12. The event will be preceded by the national and provincial novices and intermediates action. “Our opponents should expect stiff opposition from us this time round because we are coming back stronger and better. We will be fielding boxers in all weights and we hope to make a repeat performance which earned us the title in 1999,” said Maina. He said he will introduce new boxers in the super heavy and light heavy categories as well as other weight classes. “We will announce our full squad next week and I can assure our fans we will be a hard nut to crack this season,” he added. Prisons suffered a major blow when Olympians Bernard Ngumba and Aziz Ali and Kenya’s former international Daniel Shisia retired after attaining the maximum age of 40 as stipulated in the AIBA competition rules. Also leaving the team was US-based Rayton Okwiri, who joined paid ranks following his debacle at the Rio Olympics. Ngumba, who played at the Beijing Olympics and Shisia from the Dallas production line), have since joined Prisons coaching staff while Aziz has turned professional. “We lost several boxers due to various reasons and this forced us to go back to the drawing board in a bid to get our game back on track. We have since brought in new boxers who we will unveil next week,” Maina noted. Maina said Harrison Mathuku will go back to light fly (from fly) while Steve Ndungu moves from fly to bantamweight division. Kenneth Okello will retain his position at bantam. He said they are spoilt for choice between Anthony Ngugi and Francis Riziki at lightweight. In the lightweight, Prisons are expected to field Anthony Maina while Kennedy Otieno and Jacob Kimanzi will fight for the welterweight spot which was Okwiri’s specialty a few years back. Eric Otengo is expected to retain his position at middleweight division. Other teams expected to participate in the league include hosts Nakuru, Kenyatta National Hospital, OKSA (Omar Kassongo Sports Academy), Kentrak and Mombasa among others.