Kenyans will continue borrowing at the current rate of 13.5 per cent after the Central Bank retained the benchmark lending rate at 9.5 per cent. This is the second time in a row the Central Bank Monetary Policy Committee has retained the rate following the decision to reduce the base lending rate by 50 basis points during the March MPC meeting. The committee believes that the decision made at the March MPC meeting has yet to be fully transferred to the country’s economy including a determination of any perverse outcomes. Read: CBK signals cheaper loans with first CBR cut since July “The MPC noted that inflation expectations were well anchored within the Government target range, economic output was below its potential level, and there was some room for accommodative monetary policy,” MPC chair and Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge said in a statement to the press. Overall monthly inflation fell to 3.7 per cent in April, falling within the government target range of between 2.5 and 7.5 per cent. The MPC highlighted that inflation under five per cent indicated that demand driven inflationary pressures are muted. “Overall inflation is expected to remain within the Government target range mainly due to the expected further decline in food prices following improved weather conditions,” Njoroge said. “The rising international oil prices and the impact on domestic fuel prices are expected to continue exerting moderate upward pressure on inflation.” CBK foreign exchange reserves stood at an all-time high of $9.05 billion and together with precautionary arrangements with the International Monetary Fund, the reserves will continue to provide an adequate buffer against short-term shocks. Private sector credit grew 2.8 per cent in the 12 months to April compared to 2.1 per cent in February. “In particular, lending to the manufacturing, building and construction, finance and insurance, and trade sectors grew by 10.1, 14.1, 10.1 and 5.0 per cent, respectively,” Njoroge said. Also read: Banks told to use CBR, file monthly reports Click here for the latest political news