Three boda boda operators have been killed and their motorcycles stolen in one month in Webuye town. The body of the third victim was found on Monday at St Joseph’s area. Edwin Makokha’s body had multiple deep wounds. His motorcycle was missing. His brother, Peter Kunania, said Makokha was the family’s sole breadwinner. “We are pleading with the criminal gangs to stop killings our people,” he said. Kunania urged Webuye police boss Zaccheeus Ng’eno to arrest the killers. The thugs mainly attack the riders at night with crude weapons. It is believed some pretend to be customers and ambush their victims. The thugs are believed to operate from the neighbouring counties of Busia, Kakamega, Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu. Some are said to be colluding with women who pretend to be customers. When the women are ‘dropped at their destinations’, the thugs, who are usually lying in wait, pounce on the riders. The motorcycles’ engines are believed to be sold by the thugs in Siaya, where they are used on fishermen’s boats. TRANSFER COPS Boda boda operators in Webuye town said no arrest has been made so far. They accused police of laxity and slow response to distress calls. Operator John Sakwa said police do not patrol some areas in the town. “We are sad that police officers can come all the way from Kakamega and name thugs who are liaising with police to harass and kill us, yet Webuye cops can’t arrest them,” he said. The operators accused police of harassing them over minor mistakes.They threatened to stage protests and lynch suspects if police fail to intensify patrols. “We call upon Bungoma county commissioner John Kianda to transfer all police officers who have overstayed here,” rider John Wawire said. “They are now liaising with criminals to harass boda boda operators instead of providing security.” Ng’eno urged the operators to share information that may lead to the arrest of suspects. He said the information will be kept confidential and asked the riders not to take the law into their own hands by lynching suspects. Ng’eno urged the riders to operate in pairs at night when carrying strangers to avoid being attacked. Click here for the latest political news   