A Nairobi court has ordered that a Sh12 million graft case against former President Daniel Moi’s aide Joshua Kulei and two former senior government officials be heard on June 5 without further delay. Trial magistrate Felix Kombo of the Milimani Anti-Corruption Court fixed the hearing date to enable the parties prepare their case before returning to court. The office of the Director of  Public Prosecutions denied being involved in an out-of-court settlement. The case has been adjourned many times following an application by the defence who asked the court to be given more time to complete the proposed out-of-court settlement. Related: Judge saves ex-Moi aide Kulei from listing assets Kulei is charged alongside former Kenya Airport Authority managing director Peter Langat, Wilson Gachanja, a former Lands commissioner and Ezekiel Komen, a former Kenya Pipeline Company chief. The accused have since denied charges of conspiracy to defraud  arising from the transfer of 12 plots  irregularly exercised from land belonging to KAA. The prosecution, led by senior state counsel Victor Mule, maintained the Office of the DPP is not involved in the alleged negotiation between the accused and complainant. took too long He said the prosecution is ready to proceed with the full hearing with all witnesses present in court to give their testimony. On December 13,2017 the magistrate rejected the defence’s application to have the matter adjourned to enable them complete negotiations. The magistrate said the case had been pending for seven years over the same application. The prosecution said it has instructions to have the case proceed to full hearing without further delay. Defence lawyers had informed the court the accused persons were engaged in an out-of-court settlement and had asked for more time. Earlier, the defence had been given time after lawyers representing the accused, led by Pravin Bowry,  protested, saying the DPP was taking too long to make his decision on whether the case should proceed or not. More: Sh17.9m corruption case against Moi aide Kulei to be heard in November Click here for the latest political news