A Nairobi-based radio reporter recently spoke about his frightening experience covering elections last year. His regular reports about top politicians were deemed to be too critical, even by some of his colleagues. Then he started receiving threatening telephone calls from unknown people. They told him to stop that kind of reporting or something would happen to him. At first, the journalist thought about reporting the matter to the police but one of his relatives, a senior officer in the security services, persuaded him not to. The people calling the reporter were most likely security agents, he was told. That sent a cold chill down his spine. What to do? He promptly stopped filing critical reports about the top politicians he was warned against. The threatening calls ceased. The journalist was silenced. Those threatening him had achieved their goal. Today, journalists and other media professionals mark the 25th World Press Freedom Day. The theme is, ‘Keeping power in check: media, justice and the rule of law’. A global conference will be held in Accra, Ghana, (May 2-3 ), where delegates will reflect on the media and transparency of the political processes, the independence and media literacy of the judicial system and accountability of state. They will also examine challenges of ensuring press freedom online. For Kenyan media practitioners, this year’s theme is poignant. Journalism is under ruthless attack by an overbearing state and its phalanx of non-state allies. The only reason for the attack is the powers that be are scared cold of transparency in the conduct of public affairs. They want opacity. They don’t want their nefarious schemes exposed. They crave power without accountability. That, by definition, is dictatorship. There is evidence of individual journalists and media houses, who have succumbed to relentless pressure. Critical journalism is on its deathbed in Kenya. That is precisely what tyrants want. But it is not just the media that is giving up the fight. A lot of Kenyans seem to have lost hope that this country can be run in a decent manner that guarantees good life for every citizen. There is too much cynicism today. If you are in a position of power or well-connected, grab as much as you can ­— ‘everyone’ is doing it, after all. There is cutthroat competition to get to the feeding trough of public largesse. That is why competition for public office is a life-and-death issue. And if you have no power or have little access to the feeding trough, well, go to your pastor/priest/prophet/apostle for prayers. God is your only hope. Yet the state exists to serve the material interests of the people. That’s the theory. It is not the other way around. And media draws its legitimacy from keeping power in check on behalf of the people to ensure their interests — and not those of the powerful few — are served. Ours is a depressing situation. Let’s face it: Is it not the death of a nation when citizens have given up hope? It is unfortunate journalists, like the one referred to here, no longer feel safe from the state to do their work. It is alarming when media houses are arm-twisted or forced into silence. But Kenya has a robust tradition of resistance going back to the days of our ancestors. Let’s hope that even a little spark that survives the current repression would kindle into a mighty fire to burn down dictatorship. From the ashes a new order shall sprout. Henry Makori is a journalist   