Wilson Sossion was on Thursday handed a reprieve after the court extended orders allowing him to continue holding his post as the Secretary-General of KNUT pending the hearing of a case he filed challenging his ouster. Employment and Labour Judge Maureen Onyango ruled that there was no evidence indicating that change of officials at KNUT by the Registrar of Trade Unions was made before they were served with the extension order. The registrar and Acting SG Hesbon Otieno had opposed the extension of the orders arguing that the changes were effected before they were served with the order. Read: Sossion locked out of Knut headquarters, to file contempt case Otieno's lawyer wanted the court to proffer a decision that would maintain the status quo saying Sossion's replacement was done in line with union rules. The National Executive Council said it met on May 1 and voted to remove Sossion and replace him with Deputy Secretary-General Hesbourne Otieno. Otieno said 33 out of 44 members attended the meeting at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. He said 26 voted in his favour, two voted in favour of Sossion while five abstained from voting. Otieno told the court that he should be allowed to continue acting and discharging his mandate as secretary general to avert the stalling of operations at KNUT. Through his lawyer Jackson Awele, Sossion told the court that the parties disregarded a directive by the court barring his suspension. "They have also removed Sossion's name as a signatory to their bank accounts and denied him access to his office," Awele said. The case will be mentioned on May 28 when parties will argue on whether four members of the Union's NEC will be enjoined in the case as interested parties. On Monday, Sossion was blocked from entering his office at Knut House on Mfangano Street by “goons”. The men said they had strict instructions to block the embattled Knut boss from accessing his office. Sossion’s pleas to be allowed in fell on deaf ears. Also read; Sossion was suspended before court order, says acting Knut SG  Click here for the latest political news