Unhappy is a people that has run out of words to describe what is happening.—Thurman Arnold Economic Freedom Fighters party leader Julius Malema’s ‘Mama, we are waiting for a signal’ speech at Winnie Mandela’s funeral generated excitement not only in South Africa but in Kenya as well. I suppose it generated similar excitement in other parts of the continent. This was not the first time that a funeral speech has stirred minds, hearts and souls. People throughout history have seized such moments to redefine what the dead meant to the living or society. In many cases, the speeches capture the essence of the deceased or the point in history of a society in ways that is shocking and or revealing. What the deceased meant to those close to them; what they meant to the institution they worked for and; what they meant to the workmates and to the nation. Too often people are looking for meaning in their lives and their children’s lives. They yearn for people to give words to their fears, hopes and aspirations. Most people lack the linguistic ability to capture the essence of the moments or situations they are in. They have a mixture of fear and hope. Fear for the future because the person who defined the future for them is no more. Hope that out of the death, someone will turn up to embody their hopes for tomorrow. They hope that a man/woman who will fight the forces which make life less tolerable for them will arise to carry on their hopes and aspirations for the future and to calm their anxieties when the going gets tough. That is probably why Malema’s speech resonated with many people, particularly those who supported Winnie despite the challenges she faced in her sunset years — from charges of murder to her divorce. A funeral speech need not be offensive to stir hearts. It may be calm and restrained. All it needs is to interpret the occasion; the meaning of the social, political and even economic situation people face and, if possible, what they need to face the situation. Good or bad. What lesson do we learn from Malema’s speech? One is death is a human frailty that will continue decimating us — in our prime or in old age. What is important is we should seize the occasion, particularly when a prominent person leaves us, to think about what the deceased meant to us. Or what the issues await our interpretation for Wanjiku. Speeches are to me instructional performances. They educate. They acculturate. They help modify or change beliefs, attitudes and behaviour. In On Leadership, John Gardner says that the task of explaining is so important that some who do it exceptionally well play a leadership role even though they are not leaders in a conventional sense. They do this because they find or have the words to explain the moments, the occasions which present seemingly insoluble problems that make people anxious. The trouble is that some may be demagogues or political anarchists. We cannot restrain them. What we should appreciate is that formal institutions should invest more in ensuring that they have men and women who can help consolidate the words (whenever) needed to explain themselves with clarity, eloquence. Politicians should equally invest in public communication if they hope to consolidate and expand their influence on their constituents. Their American and European counterparts do this. They are not any different.