Historical injustices, police harassment, unemployment and drug abuse have been cited as major factors hindering the eradication of violent extremism and radicalisation at the Coast. Ignorance, political power struggles, poverty and technological advancements are the other challenges in countering terrorism. Participants at the Lamu Counter-Violent Extremism forum on Tuesday cited the region's proximity to Somalia as another challenge in the war on terror. They said al Shabaab militants use the expansive Boni Forest as a hide out. Youths have been urged to shun extremist ideologies and cooperate with security officers in the fight against terrorism. "We are calling on everybody to join hands for us to win the war," Phyllis Muema said. Muema is the executive director of Kenya Community Support Centre (KECOSCE), an anti-radicalisation NGO in Lamu. He urged residents to shun fear of open discussions on violent extremism, saying only then will solutions be found. "We want to assist our people and keep them away from terrorism. We want to work together with relevant authorities to address the challenges," Muema said. Muslims for Human Rights (MUHURI) executive director Hassan Abdille urged the government to provide alternative enterprises to make unemployed youths productive. "The government has a duty to ensure fair and equal distribution of resources. But there has been a historical discrimination and marginalisation of Lamu on the issuance of IDs, passports, land title deeds and recruitment into the disciplined forces. All these must be addressed because they contribute to extremism,” Abdille said. The anti-extremism forum was held at the Mwana Arafa Hotel in Lamu town. Participants said terrorists have previously exploited Lamu's hospitality to launch their deadly attacks on Kenya. They cited Mohamed Sadiq Odeh, the Yemeni national behind the 1998 US Embassy attack which killed more than 200 people in Nairobi. Sadiq lived and married in Lamu disguised as a fisherman. Another dangerous terrorist Fazul Mohamed is reported to have lived in Siyu island in Lamu East where he supported football clubs and Madrassas from his philanthropic activities. The late controversial muslim preacher Aboud Rogo hailed from Siyu island too. The these and many more point to the fact that Lamu is being exploited by terrorists to plan and execute attacks.