Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior has said the High Court’s ruling that took away Parliament’s immunity and privileges must be challenged. He said House committees exercise powers similar to those held by the courts in regards to summoning and cross-examining witnesses. Mutula, however, said the ruling by Justice John Mativo must be challenged since it cripples
House committees’ powers to summon witnesses to appear before them. "Committees exercise powers akin to the High Court under Article 125.
They sit on behalf of the House and have no proprietary interest in the
agenda." "The inviolability of the Parliament is a tradition and usage the
world over," the Senator said in a tweet on Monday. Justice Mativo said Sections 7 and 11 of the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, 2017, are inconsistent with the Constitution. The sections grant both the National Assembly and the Senate certain privileges in regards to the execution of their duties. This posited that the decisions made by parliament were final and could not be challenged in any court. They also barred lawyers and Kenyans from serving court orders within the precincts of parliament or serving such orders through the Speaker or any officer of parliament. The privileges Act also stated that access to justice for Kenyans could be limited for purposes of facilitating the conduct of business and the affairs of parliament. "It is my finding that the ouster clauses offend the constitutional principle of the rule of law because an aggrieved citizen is denied the possibility of access to the courts to challenge decisions affecting them," Justice Mativo said. Read: Blow to MPs as court allows their decisions to be challenged Article 125 of the Constitution gives both houses and their committees, powers to summon individuals to give evidence. The clause gives the houses powers to enforce the attendance of witnesses and to examine them under oath just like courts do. The house committees also have powers under the same clause to compel witnesses to produce documents deemed crucial in any matter under investigation. It also enables the committees to direct a commission or obtain clearance from relevant authorities to cross-examine witnesses abroad. The law that granted the MPs the privileges and immunity was assented to by President Uhuru Kenyatta on August 16. Justice Mativo's ruling emanated from a suit filed by former LSK president Apollo Mboya who moved to court to challenge the legality of the law. Also read: Nullify MPs powers, privileges, immunity, says former LSK boss Click here for the latest political news