Let me start with a quotation from Ryszard Kapucinski's Shah of Shahs.''It is authority that provokes revolution...This occurs when a feeling of impunity takes root among the elite: We are allowed anything, we can do anything. This is a delusion, but it rests on a certain rational foundation. For a while it does indeed look as if they can do whatever they want. Scandal after scandal and illegality after illegality go unpunished. The people remain silent. They are afraid and do not yet feel their own strength. At the same time, they keep a detailed account of the wrongs, which at one particular moment are to be added up. The choice of that moment is the greatest riddle of history'' "Kenya's budget is now approaching 2 trillion shillings; a third of it is being wasted through corruption," said Kinisu [Reuters]. The Figure is in excess of $6b. It is a mind-boggling figure. It is a disease and the symptoms of this disease are seen just about everywhere in our Economy. As you are no doubt aware, the following changes have been tabled in parliament through various tax bills, including the Income Tax Bill, 2018 and the Tax Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2018: 35.0% tax on individuals earning Kshs 750,000 per month and above as well as large corporations with a monthly taxable income of more than Kshs 500 mn, and, Amendments to the VAT Act that include changing the status of various products such as milk and cream, maize (corn) flour, bread and wheat among others from zero-rated to exempt, meaning that producers of these products cannot claim Value Added Tax (VAT) on inputs from the government, thus increasing their retail prices. These changes as well as the expected 16.0% VAT on petroleum products as from September 2018 is aimed at increasing revenue collections. [via Cytonn] Essentially if you were seeking to demolish our credentials as an Investment decision for ourselves because ultimately Kenyans are the biggest single Investor in Kenya Inc. This is the way to proceed. Jacking up Tax rates will in my view produce meagre gains for the Treasury, if any. What happens is that Folks will expend all their energy on Tax mitigation and avoidance. This happens the World over. All my analysis shows that Kenya inc. needs to be cutting Tax at this point. Cutting Tax will increase compliance levels and will in fact increase The Tax Take. I urge Mr. Muthaura, the newly invested Chairman of the KRA to dial up Mr.Nikhil Hira [who did a lot of this modelling during his time at Deloitte]. The disease is not addressed by taxing honest and hard-working Kenyans more. This disease is dealt with by tackling the disease at its source. The President is self-evidently seized of the problem. The Folks who are making off with $6b every year are not the smartest Folks on the Block. They walk into our Public Institutions and walk out with cash in gunny sacks. It insults our intelligence. Just look at Social Media where there has been a sea change [The People are no longer silent]. We can certainly go and pay millions to Consultants to tell us what we need to do and throw in a few weekends in Mombasa [Mombasa is passe now, in fact and Folks brazenly go to the ends of the Earth now for their off-sites] and come up with absolutely nothing. We are at a Fork in the road. We need to ''uber'' ise otherwise we will look back at and call this our ''Kodak'' moment.