Tusker FC head coach Robert Matano has hinted that the club will be seeking to redeem themselves when they face Taita Taveta All Stars this Saturday in the SportPesa Shield Cup round of 64 match at Taita University grounds. Tusker have suffered three successive losses at the hands of Kariobangi Sharks, Nakumatt and Kakamega Homeboyz, finishing the first leg of the SportPesa Premier League with 19 points from a possible 52. Matano believes the Shield encounter will provide an avenue for his boys to restore the confidence they had when he took over the reigns a month ago following the unceremonious sacking of his predecessor Sam Timbe. The result against the three cancelled his perfect start in his third tenure at the Ruaraka-based club, where he had guided the breweries to record wins over Wazito, Sony Sugar and Bandari and consequently unhooked the club from the shame of sinking to the relegation zone. Matano vowed not to field the second string squad as anticipated against the National Division 2 club as he seeks to recover from the three losses which locked him out of the top ten in the first leg. Speaking yesterday after overseeing Tusker’s training session, Matano said: “We will be seeking to redeem ourselves from the last three losses in the Premier League. “I have never played them before and I will field a strong team which is capable of putting the result beyond doubt with ease. “We have prepared well for the match and I believe the boys will rectify the mistakes they did in the last three matches. We want to make it to the round of 32 and eventually muscle for the cup.” The former AFC Leopards and Sofapaka coach also revealed his intentions of signing a undisclosed number of new players to beef his current squad ahead of the second leg. He further warned regular starters of complacency. He said: “I have identified areas to bolster and I will bring in few players. I will also promote one or two from the junior team to join the senior team. I have identified the players to bring and their identities will be made known once the window opens. This is a big club and we can not afford to drift back to the performance we had at the beginning of the year. Only hardworking players will be given the chance to showcase their talents.”