Quit being a “crybaby”, settle down and show Nairobians you have what it takes to be county chief, former Governor Evans Kidero has told his successor. “Tell [Governor Mike] Sonko that if he is unable to do the job, then he should resign,” he told the Star in a  telephone interview on Wednesday. Governor Mike Sonko has on a number of occasions blamed Kidero for the city’s problems, saying he inherited a “rotten” government riddled with corruption and land-grabbing cartels at City Hall. Roads have deep and large potholes and are dirty, garbage is dumped all over, traffic jams have worsened and hawkers have turned the city centre into an open air market. Last week, Sonko accused Kidero’s administration of diverting Sh3.7 billion meant for repair and construction of roads. “The money was diverted from the development account to operations and ended up in some lawyers’ pockets,” he said. Blame game But Kidero hit back at Sonko over his “crybaby tendency”. He said roads and drainages were well maintained during his tenure and “that was why floods were not experienced as they are today.” “You succeed your predecessor because you know you can do a better job than him. So he should do his job and stop blaming me. Let him be man enough and do his job,” he said. Sonko has been criticised since he came to power in August last year over the deplorable state of affairs in the capital. In March an audit report by KPMG commissioned by Sonko showed that the former administration could not account for Sh21 billion. But Kidero said it was ‘illegal” as it was not authorised by the Office of the Auditor General-Kenya National Audit Office. “It is only the Kenao that audits government institutions. The Kenao was never aware of the audit. So it was an illegal audit. Nobody even called us to ask us those questions,” he said. “He claims he collects more than I used to, which is a lie.  If you read the Quarter One report of the Controller of Budget, they fall short of what we had collected the same period last year by Sh1 billion.” Kidero asked Sonko to stop engaging in public relations in the media, set up his government and provide services. “Blaming me is not going to solve these problems or make him more effective. Let him stop being a crybaby,” he said.