Safaricom defied tough economic times signaled by a prolonged drought and electioneering period to post Sh55.29 billion in net earnings for the year ending March 2018. The firm’s mobile data service offering recorded the highest growth at 24 per cent during the review period to Sh36.36 billion while revenue from M-pesa grew 14.2 per cent to sh62.91 billion. Despite losing 2.8 per cent of its market share during the September-December period, the market leader showed strong resilience as outgoing voice revenue grew 2.4 per cent to Sh88.96 billion while messaging revenue grew 6.2 per cent to Sh17.72 billion. “We remained resilient despite the macroeconomic headwinds of a prolonged election period, drought, low credit growth, uncertain regulatory environment and enhanced competitor activity,” Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore said yesterday. “Negative post-election sentiments made voice market share retention a challenge during the September to December 2017 quarter, as indicated in the report published by the Communications Authority in April 2018.” To clearly understand the magnitude of Safaricom’s earnings, the firm can comfortably cater for the Sh40.8 billion supplementary budget cut proposed by members of the National Assembly last month, and still take home a net income of Sh14.49 billion. This means the firm could easily provide relief for external funding for the Nairobi-Naivasha Standard Gauge Railway which was chopped by Sh42 billion under the proposal, one of the hardest hit projects. It could also collectively stand in for the State Department for Infrastructure whose budget for roads was cut by Sh34.3 billion together with the low cost housing, equalization fund, donor funding for HIV/Aids, TB and Malaria allocated to National Treasury which was chopped by Sh22.1 billion. The budget committee chaired by Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung’wah proposed 6.6 per cent of the development budget expenditure in the second supplementary budget for 2017/2018 be slashed to meet the soaring cost of public debt. Safaricom’s income after tax could pay striking lecturers who have put down their tools for the past 70 days, demanding Sh38 billion in the 2017-2021 collective bargaining agreement. The telco has financial muscle to cater for equity, poverty reduction and social protection for vulnerable goods which has a proposed allocation of Sh52 billion Under the proposed 2018/19 budget. These entail the national government constituency fund, affirmative action for social development for women representatives, the equalisation fund, orphans and vulnerable children, cash transfers to elderly persons and persons with disability. Safaricom could easily handle allocations for some Big Four agenda where at least Sh43.1 billion has been allocated to enhance food and nutrition security to all Kenyans, with its service revenue growth registered at Sh224.54 billion. Universal healthcare coverage has been allocated Sh44.6 billion while Sh30.5 billion is for the provision of affordable and decent housing. Job creation under the manufacturing agenda received a Sh10.5 billion in the budget proposal. During the review period, the firm moved Sh8.1 trillion through M-Pesa. This is a trillion more than the country’s gross domestic product, currently at Sh7.1 trillion. Withdrawals alone were valued at Sh1.684 trillion, about Sh190 billion less that KRA’s revenue target for the current financial year projected at Sh1.49 trillion while other transactions valued at Sh2.537 trillion, the budget estimation for the 2018/19 financial year. Safaricom is planning to invest between Sh35-38 billion in infrastructure expansion, a decision pushed by increased demand for high speed data. Contribution from new business has more than doubled to 26.4 per cent compared to the 2015 finacial year driven by services like Lipa Na M-PESA and International Money Transfer. “In FY 2019 we look to drive long-term shareholder value by deploying next-generation network services, leveraging data analytics and segmentation, guided by our purpose of transforming lives to turn innovative ideas into realities,” Safaricom finance director Sateesh Kamath said. The firm’s CEO who has been on medical since October last year announced his return to the helm of the organization noting that he was making good headway in his treatment. “I look forward to being back in action in Nairobi soon,” Collymore said.