At least 17 people have died in
an area of northwestern Democratic Republic of Congo where
health officials have now confirmed an outbreak of Ebola, the
health ministry said on Tuesday. It is the ninth time Ebola has been recorded in the central
African nation, whose eastern Ebola river gave the deadly virus
its name when it was discovered there in the 1970s, and comes
less than a year after its last outbreak which killed eight
people. "Our country is facing another epidemic of the Ebola virus,
which constitutes an international public health emergency," the
ministry said in a statement. "We still dispose of the well trained human resources that
were able to rapidly control previous epidemics," it said. Read: DR Congo confirms new Ebola outbreak in country's north-west Ebola is believed to be spread over long distances by bats,
which can host the virus without dying, as it infects other
animals it shares trees with such as monkeys. It often spreads
to humans via infected bush meat. Before the outbreak was confirmed, local health officials
reported 21 patients showing signs of hemorrhagic fever around
the village of Ikoko Impenge, near the town of Bikoro. Seventeen
of those later died. Medical teams supported by the World Health Organisation and
medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres were dispatched to the
zone on Saturday and took five samples from suspected active
cases. Two of those samples tested positive for the Zaire strain of
the Ebola virus, the ministry said. "Since notification of the cases on May 3, no deaths have
been reported either among the hospitalised cases or the
healthcare personnel," the statement said. After Congo's last Ebola flare-up, authorities there
approved the use of a new experimental vaccine but in the end
did not deploy it owing to logistical challenges and the
relatively minor nature of the outbreak. The worst Ebola epidemic in history ended in West Africa
just two years ago after killing more than 11,300 people and
infected some 28,600 as it rolled through Guinea, Sierra Leone
and Liberia. Despite regular outbreaks every few years, death tolls in
Congo have been significantly lower. "Our top priority is to get to Bikoro to work alongside the
Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and partners
to reduce the loss of life and suffering related to this new
Ebola virus disease outbreak," said Dr Peter Salama, WHO Deputy
Director-General, Emergency Preparedness and Response. "Working with partners and responding early and in a
coordinated way will be vital to containing this deadly
disease." Health experts credit an awareness of the disease among the
population and local medical staff's experience treating for
past successes containing its spread. Congo's vast, remote geography also gives it an advantage,
as outbreaks are often localised and relatively easy to isolate. Ikoko Impenge and Bikoro, however, lie not far from the
banks of the Congo River, an essential waterway for transport
and commerce. Further downstream the river flows past Democratic Republic
of Congo's capital Kinshasa and Brazzaville, capital of
neighbouring Congo Republic - two cities with a combined
population of over 12 million people. Click here for the latest political news 