The Third Annual Legislative Summit ended yesterday with a message to counties to enhance public participation. Lack of sufficient public participation has been blamed for corruption. Some residents criticised misplaced priorities which require billions of shillings. “Public participation has to genuinely reflect the needs of the residents,” Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said. He said many cases only involve a few villagers who are called, paid listening allowance and made to sign lists to show there was public participation. In a speech read on his behalf by Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri, Opposition chief Raila Odinga said more effort from MCAs is needed. Raila said lack of clear separation of roles between MCAs and the Executive has led to blames game for failures. He said approved budgets are doubled, trippled or even halved. Related: Ruto intensifies attack on Raila, says referendum must be people-driven MCAs were urged to reduce benchmarking trips which add no value. “Endless committee meetings and numerous trips mean less time to deliver services to the residents,” Raila said. Consultant Kamotho Waiganjo criticised counties, saying they had taken public participation for a joke. He said officials only involve the public in areas they govern, or overwhelm the public with information they do not understand. “In some cases, we make the decision but seek the public’s input for show,” Waiganjo said. Joash Dache from the Law Reform Commission said public participation is either captured by professional interests or its quality eroded by too many forums. Public Service CAS Rachael Shebesh warned that MCAs risk missing the Ward Development Fund if they continue being confrontational. Read: MCAs' love for foreign trips The ward representatives are pushing for the establishment of the fund. But Shebesh said the MCAs need to employ better lobbying skills. On Wednesday, MCAs at the summit heckled Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang’. He suggested they take English lessons to understand the details of the County Ward Development Equalisation Bill, 2018, which seeks to establishment the Sh21.8 billion Ward Development Fund. Shebesh said it takes a lot of lobbying for Parliament to pass key bills, especially those not factored in the budget. “What we went through to get a kitty for the Woman Representatives was not easy. You will have to do more to ensure you get the WDF,” she said. Tana River County Assembly Speaker Michael Nkaduda said the fund is not a luxury, but a necessity. “The WDF is a necessity if there is to be any meaningful achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals,” he said, adding that  MCAs are on the ground and need more funding. Read Also: MCAs on Sh30m 'unnewsworthy' trips abroad Click here for
the latest political news