The examination council has assured the country that preparations for this year’s national exams are on track. Knec chief executive Mercy Karogo said necessary measures have been put in place to avert a breach of the security mechanisms in the examination preparation process. “National examinations are about the well being of the Nation and therefore the council wishes to reiterate that all measures have been put in place to ensure credible examinations to guarantee national, regional and international recognition of certificates awarded to candidates,” Karogo said in a statement on Sunday. Read: KNEC allays fears of KCSE Mathematics, Chemistry exam leak She advised candidates and parents against being duped into buying exam material purported to be genuine exam papers. Karogo said the multi-agency approach of examination administration will be scaled up this year to guard against any forms of cheating. “Parents are advised not to fall prey to schemes used by unscrupulous people to fleece unsuspecting Kenyans,” she said. Unlike in 2016 when no exam cheating was reported in KCSE,1,205 candidates missed their results last year due to exam malpractices. Read: Knec cancels exam results for 1,205 candidates over cheating Kenya National Examinations Council chairman Prof George Magoha said thorough, fair and objective investigations found that the candidates engaged in exam cheating. He said some candidates entered exam rooms with mobile phones containing examination materials, others smuggled written unauthorized information into exam rooms or colluded and copied answers from each other. This year’s KCPE exams will take place between October 29 and November 1 while the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Examinations will take place between November 5 and November 30. Some 1,060,787 candidates registered for this year’s KCPE exams while 663,811 candidates registered for KCSE. KCPE will be conducted across 27,172 centres while KCSE will be conducted across 10,075 centres. Also read; Ignore 'fake' WhatsApp papers, 2017 exams safe - KNEC Click here for the latest political news