ODM leader Raila Odinga’s recent statement that he has no interest in the 2022 presidential race has not gone well with some Nyanza legislators. A little bird whispered to Corridors that a group of ODM lawmakers, some of whom have served for more than two terms, were heard contemplating their political survival without Jakom on the ballot. The MPs, believed to have benefited from their association with Raila for political success, were pondering how they intend to go back to the drawing board to devise ways of retaining their seats.*****  A first-time Jubilee MP is in the eye of a storm. Why? Well, he is at the centre of what is shaping into as grand heist. A little bird whispered to Corridors that the man has used proceeds of crime to acquire a state-of-the-art limousine, which he is now using. Some people familiar with the deal were heard saying the case is likely to take a similar twist like the infamous Chickengate scandal in which the UK’s Serious Fraud Office swung into action. It is whispered that investigating agencies are keenly following the money trail. Corridors will unveil full details of the scandal in the fullness of time.***** A popular governor from Western Kenya is the talk of town. The county boss recently surprised members of a popular WhatsApp group when he resorted to hurling unprintable insults at a member for posing tough questions to him. The agitated governor could not control his temper and began to unleash insults to silence his unbowed critic. Our mole has told Corridors that the county chief was being pressed to explain why he allegedly resorted to living in a palatial rental house contrary to his campaign promise that he would operate from his rural home if elected to save taxpayers unnecessary expenses.***** A Jubilee legislator from Mt Kenya who has a soft spot for married women is under siege. Reason? The politician has reportedly snatched the wife of one of his erstwhile friends. Corridors is informed that a week ago, the MP took his new catch, a fellow lawmaker, for a retreat outside the country. The helpless husband to the legislator has found it difficult to deal with his friend, known for boasting of deep pockets and good connections with the media. In retaliation, the cuckolded husband decided to spill the beans by informing the MP’s wife about her husband’s behaviour. The man has reliably given the offending MP time to repent or he will release the secret messages and photos of their canoodling to the public. Click here for the latest political news