NASA leader Raila Odinga and his co-principal Musalia Mudavadi have differed on the government’s anti-graft war that has seen billions lost in questionable deals. Mudavadi accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of being asleep on the job as senior government officers are on a looting spree. But Raila on Saturday appealed for patience with Uhuru, saying the head of state is committed to ending graft. The Opposition chief said fighting corruption remains top on his deal with Uhuru. Read: Raila breaks silence over NYS scam, says ending graft part of handshake Some of the deals in which taxpayers have lost money include National Youth Service (Sh9 billion), National Cereals and Produce Board (Sh1.9 billion), the Kenya Power and Lighting Company, Kenya Pipeline Company (Sh600,000 ) and the Youth Fund (Sh10 million). Kenyans should be prepared for a positive outcome,” Raila said on Saturday at the funeral of Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s mother-in-law in Busia. But Mudavadi painted a picture of a President who has run out of options in arresting high-profile corruption cases. The ANC leader said the scandals were well planned by high placed looters in Jubilee. He added that the national government’s inaction in combating mega corruption scams makes it an accomplice. “What is happening is planned by those entrusted to protect against it,” Mudavadi said. “The only new element is the thieves’ confidence, the staggering amounts and the crude impunity with which the lords of corruption are going about their business.” The ANC leader called for stiffer penalties against looters of public resources, adding that the current leadership has become ineffective. “We need new laws on principles of public finance and values of public service so that workers are truly bound to uphold efficient use of public resources.” Read: NYS SCANDAL: It’s not corruption, it’s planned looting – Mudavadi At the weekend, Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji received 10 files from the DCI on the Sh9 billion NYS scandal. Haji and DCI boss George Kinoti met to review statements recorded by 40 individuals suspected to have been involved in the latest NYS scandal. The two officers met at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters along Kiambu Road where they scrutinised evidence gathered by detectives. Sources said arrests could be made as soon as next week. The scrutiny of statements and evidence is expected to continue. Also present was state prosecutor Duncan Ondimu. Deputy President William Ruto has warned those found culpable of corruption to carry their own cross. Ruto called on all institutions responsible to play their rightful roles in the fight against corruption. He said the corrupt should not run to their communities or political parties for protection. “We will not sacrifice the progress of Kenya to satisfy the greed of few individuals. This time around they will not get off the hook. They will be held accountable,” the Deputy President said. The rot at the National Cereals and Produce Board has been laid bare, exposing how well connected cartels are minting billions at the expense of the Kenyan farmer. Just days after Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri kicked off a grand house cleaning at NCPB, an internal ministry report has smoked out 18 unscrupulous traders suspected to have links with powerful people. The traders masquerading as farmers were vetted and rejected, rekindling memories of the maize scandal that rocked the country in 2010. Eight farmers, seven from the Eldoret depot, will pocket Sh873.2 million. They already have pocketed Sh607,764,171. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam Click here for the latest political news