City Hall risks being sued by contractors over Sh500 million debts after the Controller of Budget declined to approve funds. The projects were undertaken under the Ward Development Fund. However, in January Controller of Budget Agnes Odhiambo rejected the ward kitty in all counties as illegal. It was created in Nairobi in 2014. Fund committee members, a legal officer from Odhiambo’s office and the county controller of budget met in City Hall on Tuesday. The committee said it was under pressure from contractors who have not been paid since 2014. Contractors are “on our necks”, majority chief whip and Ngara MCA Mwaura Chege said. But the legal director from the CoG’s office, Selina Iseme, said the ward kitty did not conform to regulation 197 (e) of the Public Finance Management (County Government) Regulation of 2015. In a circular to all counties dated January 19, Odhiambo advised governors not to release money for projects budgeted for under the ward fund.  OVERREACH BY ODHIAMBO? She said ward projects should be budgeted for under development budgets and implemented by county departments. Nairobi clerk Jacob Ngwele said Odhiambo overstepped her mandate. Only the High Court can annul an Act of the county assembly, he said. He said it was unfair to issue a blanket circular to counties, yet Nairobi enacted the law long before the regulations were issued by the National Treasury. Ngwele said the assembly formed the Ward Development Fund Act based on advice from the controller’s office. It has been amended twice to satisfy recommendations. “First, were were told MCAs should not be a members of the development committee and each ward should not have its own account. We changed that. Later, we were told the clerk should not sit on the committee, and that was changed too,” Ngwele said. He said the county is surprised to be lumped with others counties.The assembly will petition the committee on delegated legislation of the Senate or Treasury CS Henry Rotich to amend the rules, he said. The circular by the CoB dealt a blow to governors and MCAs who were seen to be using the ward fund to win votes. Counties that also created the fund include Nakuru, Meru, Machakos, Nandi, Embu, Kiambu, and Laikipia. The CoB said Finance executives in counties should confirm in writing that the fund will not be budgeted for annually by the county exchequer. Instead, it should be a one-off vote in an election cycle. Nairobi controller of budget Farhiya Sheik Ibrahim told the county to budget for projects under Public Works sector.