Mombasa county has asked the Court of Appeal to allow it to evict tenants from public estates for a Sh200 billion housing project. The tenants moved to court to block their eviction after High Judge Jeremy Otieno allowed the county to proceed with the project. Governor Hassan Joho wants to modernise the estates in an ambitious vision 2015 plan. Among the estates to be upgraded are Khadija and Nyerere. wants the court of appeal to uphold a decision by the High Court to allow the kicking-off the sh 200 billion housing project. The county said told the three judge bench that the project intends to benefit more people contrary to the current situation. In 2016, the High Court ruled in favour of governor Hassan Joho’s ambitious Vision 2035 which includes modernizing of public estates including Khadija estate and Nyerere estate. Read: Mombasa county to build 20,000 houses for workers Judge PJ Otieno ruled tenants be evicted and the project proceed as planned, but said the county government should involve tenants before starting the project. But the tenants moved to the court of appeal to stop their eviction. Through lawyer Edward Ratemo, the county said the tenants will benefit from the project. Ratemo said 20 percent of units will be given to the public through a social programme. He told Justices Alnasir Visram, Martha Koome and Wanjiru Karanja that the tenants will be given first priority once the project is complete. The county wants to increase the number of housing units from the current 3,000 to 31,500. At least 6,000 units will be allocated to the tenants. The remaining houses will be sold by the financiers. Ratemo noted that the 80 percent of the modern houses will be sold by the project financiers to get back their funds. The county said the private developer is expected to sell the percentage of the units in order to get returns of the funds they injected on the project. Read: Mombasa estates will help tenants own houses He said the units will be sold to individuals at a reasonable rates. Justice Otieno directed the county to involved the tenants in their eviction. The tenants told the court there was no public participation. But Ratemo said public participation was conducted before the planning of the project. The tenants also want contentions over the rates of buying the modern units addressed before the project starts. They told the court the houses could be too expensive for them. The judges will give a ruling on July 5. Through their lawyer Oluga,the tents claimed the county had conceptualized and formulated the project by the time they involved the residents. Oluga said the county approached them when they had already awarded the tenders and were about to sign contracts with the builders. He said the tenants were not against the project but had concerns which they need to be addressed before the starting of the project. One of the concerns according to Oluga was the rates at which the tenants will have to pay in order to buy the units. Oluga said the houses will be too expensive for the tents who are languish in poverty to afford. He said the tenants want the court to stop the construction until when their fears were addressed by the county. Judges Alvishram Nassir,Martha Koome and Wanjiru Karanja will give their decision on July 5. Also read: Changamwe NHC tenants oppose new houses Click here for the latest political news