The National Youth Service has refuted claims that Sh10 billion has been lost in a new scandal. Public Service and Gender Principal Secretary Lillian Omollo has disputed a report by the director general of the National Intelligence Service that 13 vouchers amounting to Sh8b were paid to "ghost" companies for non-existent supplies to the NYS. "The vouchers given to the DCI for investigation are for Sh900 million. This is not remotely close to the amount claimed to have been stolen or lost," she wrote in a memo to Public Service Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia on May 12. It is alleged that senior government officials used proxies to register companies that were used to siphon money from the organisation. But the PS says the cash paid against the alleged vouchers is Sh121m as per the statement sent to DCI and the PS on May 2. "The state department continues to comply with the requests from the DCI for submission of documents and recording of statements by officers," she said. Details: Youth affairs ministry denies paying Sh8 billion to ghost NYS suppliers Several officers including the PS and the director general have recorded statements. They have also provided the DCI with procurement, finance and accounting documents dating back to 2011. It is alleged that the money was paid out soon after the last scandal which cost the NYS Sh1.6 billion. Health CS Sicily Kariuki was in charge of the Gender docket then while Omollo was the PS from November 2015 when Anne Waiguru stepped down under pressure over the Sh1.6 billion NYS scam. According to some of suppliers, who requested anonymity, the ground work for the current mess started when the NYS was expanded in 2013 and got involved in multiple projects across the country. In a letter to the DCI on January 15, they accused Omollo and NYS director-general Richard Ndubai of paying millions to companies that did not offer any services. "They have and continued to pay thousands of millions to companies that did not provide any service to NYS in the guise of pending bills not paid by the previous administration who are in court," the letter read. Read: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal The suppliers claimed that the payments had been processed "using forged supplier contracts and altered minutes." They claimed a bank account at Garden City mall had been used to receive payments. The suppliers also claimed that Omollo had shown preference of particular companies, leaving most of them with genuine payments and loan burdens to suffer. They demanded that Omollo and Ndubai be investigated. On March 9, after three years of trial, former Devolution PS Peter Mangiti and 23 others accused of conspiracy to steal from the NYS were acquitted for lack of evidence. Chief Magistrate Kenneth Bidali said the prosecution failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. Also acquitted of charges of conspiracy to commit economic crimes were Hassan Noor, Adan Harakhe and others who had been accused of unlawful disposal of public funds. Click here for the latest political news 