The Sabaot Council of elders have
threatened to seek court action if some of their sons and daughters from Ndorobo/Ogiek
and Koony won't be considered in any of the plum county jobs. Addressing the press in Kapsokwony
on Thursday, the elders led by the Sabaot Council of elders Chairman Reuben
Butaki and the Ogiek Council of elders chairman  Johnston Takur called on Bungoma governor
Wycliffe Wangamati to stop listening to politicians who are giving them wrong
information and instead deal with the elders. Butaki said that if the elders
advise will be ignored on the inclusivity issue they will move to court in order
to be heard. "The Ndorobos residing in
Kopsiro and Koony in Kaptama division have been ignored by the county
leadership, only the 'Bok' have benefitted from the plum county jobs, it is
high time our governor considered our plea in the next recruitment exercise,"
said Butaki. Takur stated that all the key posts
have benefitted the Bok sub tribe  members while the Ndorobo/Koony have
been shunned like plague. "The county lands minister
Bramwel Murgor, County Public Service Board Chairman Gideon Sirai, Gender
director, ward fund director and other senior employees are all from the Bok
sub tribe, let the county also involve sons and daughters from the
Ndorobo/Koony sub tribes," said Takur. They called on the area Mp Fred
Kapondi to be very considerate when dishing out senior county positions to
Sabaots, he should balance them according to regions and sub tribes. "The Bok have benefitted more
than the Ndorobo and Koony, let this time round both the Ndorobo and Koony also
benefit from the two Chief Officers and a director position, let it be all
inclusive to create peace in Mt.Elgon," said Butala. He said Mt Elgon has always been in
the news for wrong reasons and it was time both elected, nominated and council
elders worked together  and spoke in one voice for the benefit of the sons
and daughters of the soil. "Sabaots have suffered for a
long time from tribal and land clashes, we wish not to see repeat of the same,
both the Bok, Ndorobo and Koony sub tribes have got educated sons and daughters
who should be considered for senior posts, one community should not benefit
because of having a godfather while others are left suffering," warned
Butala. Takur said both communities residing
in Bungoma should benefit from county jobs for the sake of inclusivity and no
community should feel left out for the sake of bolstering peace in the region.
Butaki stated that the Sabaot Supreme Council of elders will not accept their
Chief Officers position to be taken by a person from another community.
"This issue of the area Mp telling us that we have the Livestock Chief
Officer who is from the Iteso community does not carry any weight, Tesos should
directly benefit from the affirmative action post because they don't have a
constituency of their own," said Butaki.
He said Koony had deputy Governor in the previous regime and now the feel left
out, no senior position at the moment, they demand the chief officer slot,