Two boys who were separately kidnapped in Nairobi and Ruai have been freed. However a girl who was kidnapped alongside one of the boys is still being detained. The 14 year-old girl, kidnapped in the Ruai ordeal is yet to be released 48 hours after his brother was freed after the gang received a Sh30,000 ransom. In the first incident, a 12-year-old class two boy, who was reported kidnapped at Embakasi police on Wednesday was released yesterday and abandoned at Gikomba market where police and family members collected him. The boy was unhurt despite the family declining to pay an additional Sh 90,000 which the kidnappers demanded. The family paid Sh 2,000 only. Yesterday, police said the minor visibly shocked after close to 24 hours in the hands of kidnappers. The boy was headed to school in a matatu when he reportedly was forced into a car by unknown people, according to police report. Police in Embakasi yesterday questioned the boy after his resque in Gikomba . His story however contradicted the kidnap theory after he explained that he fell asleep while in the bus and lost direction to school. It is after his father placed a public appeal that he started receiving calls demanding for cash for information on his son’s whereabouts. After interrogation, police concluded that the boy had not been kidnapped as reported to the police. The second victim also a boy aged 13, who was kidnapped from the family home in Joska, Ruai last Sunday was freed and dumped close to the family home at 2 am on Tuesday. A sister to the freed minor in the Joska incident is yet to be released by her abductors who have demanded for a Sh 1 million ransoms. In the Joska case, the kidnappers called the minors father after receiving a Sh 30,000 of the Sh 1million that they demanded. The attackers told the family to collect the child at a nearby bus park at the dead of the night. Police said the teenager survived the attack unhurt. Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende confirmed the incidents but declined to comment further. “We know the criminals behind and we are investigating “said Kamwende. In February, three people among them a Kenya Defence Forces soldier was arrested in a botched kidnap in Langata. The three were accused of demanding Sh5 million-ransom to the minor who was rescued from a house where he was being held.