Eighteen foreign envoys have commended Kenya's renewed commitment to fight corruption and pledged to support the efforts. They said they will stand with Kenya in its quest to deal with the scourge and called for fair trial process. "We urge that Kenya's judiciary take swift action, consistent with the rule of law, to ensure fair trials and justice. "When there is evidence of corruption, those responsible should be prosecuted regardless of political party, social stature, or personal connections," they said in a statement. Read: I won’t be intimidated in my bid to unite Kenyans, Uhuru tells handshake critics The envoys noted that corruption is not a preserve of certain countries alone but a widespread menace whose eradication depend on political will and strong coordination between relevant agencies. They said prosecution of individuals or organizations found guilty should include forfeiture of the proceeds of their crimes. "No country is free of corruption, and many of ours have faced challenges. There are no shortcuts to tackling the problem. It requires strong Kenyan political leadership, a commitment to zero tolerance for corruption, and all government and law enforcement agencies working together," they said. The statement was signed by among others US Ambassador Robert Godec, Germany's Jutta Frasch, Denmark's Mette Knudsen and Sweden's Anna Jardfeldt. Others are head of European Union Delegation to Kenya Stefano Dejak, Italy Ambassador Mauro Massoni, Australia's Alison Chartres and Lisa Doherty of Ireland. The envoys welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta's resolve to deal with corruption and also commended the Department of Criminal Investigation for moving with speed to apprehend the suspects. The DCI has lined up 64 people and companies for prosecution over the loss of funds amounting to Sh468 million at the National Youth Service. On Tuesday, 33 of the suspects were charged in court over the loss of funds in what the Director of Prosecutions said is only phase one of the probe into the alleged loss of Sh8 billion. Other suspects, he said, will be arrested and prosecuted as investigations proceed. Also read:Uhuru to corruption suspects: 'Your tribe won’t protect you' Click here for the latest political news