They say writing short stories is harder than a full-length novel because you have fewer words to set the plot, characters and conclusion. In her debut short story collection, What It Means When a Man Falls From the Sky, author Lesley Arimah has achieved a notable feat. The common denominator in all the 12 stories is the female protagonist, who is struggling to overcome difficult personal or external circumstances. Through the eyes of girls, mothers and daughters, the book presents a medley of narratives both life-like and fantastical. Arimah was born in the UK and grew up in both Nigeria and the USA. Consequently some of the stories compare life experiences in Africa versus western countries. In a nod to real history, the Biafran civil war of the late 1960s is covered through three generations of women in The Future Looks Good. Arimah looks at the plight of the widowed wife in Buchi’s Girls, where a mother must rely on the grudging support of her relatives. Though set in Nigeria, it echoes the lot of women across Africa facing hardship and loss of social status when a husband dies. The cover title story is one of my favourites. In this dystopian tale set in a post-apocalyptic world, the Western world has been destroyed by biblical-style floods, while Africa is the most advanced continent. It also takes in the psychological trauma wrought by war on ordinary people, while touching on the sensitive topic of lesbianism. Would it be an African novel without mythology and magical realism? From the story Who Will Greet You at Home, I was fascinated by the tradition of fashioning toy babies as a talisman for fertility, although the greater lesson here is the lengths to which women will go to have children. Glory explores the issue of superstition and a lifetime of poor choices that plague a young woman who yearns to fit in and be normal. There are feuding gods and goddess in the tale, What is a Volcano? It draws from folklore method of narration to explain natural phenomena but with an epic storyline. Dysfunctional families, father and daughter relationships, marriage, grief and the immigrant experience are other dynamics of the stories.  I like that Arimah covers a gamut of themes and that her characters, with their faults and weaknesses, are relatable. In addition to her amazing talent at weaving a tale, I found her voice appealing, with good prose and wittiness, despite the tragic accounts. Most of the stories can stand on their own. The narrative Light won the Commonwealth Short Story prize in 2015. I thought some of the tales could even be the basis of a longer novel. However, a few of them felt like they needed a deeper exploration. This book won the 2017 Kirkus Prize for Fiction valued at $50,000. In the past, Arimah has twice been listed for the Caine Prize and she is reportedly working on a novel.   Star Rating: 4/5