The death toll from Wednesday night’s dam tragedy in Solai, Nakuru, has risen to 44 while 40 others are missing. At least 20 children are among the dead. Earlier in the day, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said preliminary evaluation indicated that the number of casualties could be higher. The missing people will be taken into account on Friday when registration and verification will continue. "We have adjourned search and recovery operation until tomorrow (Friday) morning. Next update will be 12 noon," Pius Masai, Deputy Director at National Disaster Management Unit said. Read; Nakuru dam death toll could be higher - Matiangi The privately owned Patel Dam broke its banks at around 9 pm on Wednesday night. It’s owned by Mansukul Patel, a horticulture farmer who uses the water to irrigate his flower farms. The water swept through three villages stretching about seven kilometres. The villages are mostly inhabited by about 3,000 people most of whom are casual labourers on the flower farms. Kenya Red Cross put the number of displaced households at approximately 500. "41 survivors were taken to the hospital, 35 of them were discharged while six are still in the hospital," Red Cross Secretary General Abbas Gulet said in a statement. He said survivors are admitted at the Provincial General Hospital and at the Bahati Sub County Hospital. "It is a double tragedy and these communities have been rendered more vulnerable because of the cyclical disasters and their coping mechanisms has been totally depleted,” Gullet said. Some of the survivors said they tried to run after hearing the roaring sound of the water but they were outrun and swept away. One of the other remaining two dams on the Patel farm has been found unfit. It will be emptied to reduce pressure as recommended by engineers from the county and national government. According to Red Cross, floods have to date killed 158 people and injured 80 others countrywide. A total of 49,975 households (approximately 299,859 people) have been displaced, 19,223 livestock lost and about 21,741 acres of farmland with crops destroyed. These effects are spread across 32 of 47 counties in the country. Also read: Nakuru dam tragedy regrettable, rains exceeded state's expectations - Kiraithe  Click here for the latest political news