Schoolchildren from terror-prone Basuba ward in Lamu East are unable to go back to school for second term due to flooding. The 500 pupils have to wait until the rains subside and water levels drop before they can venture from their villages to learning centres in Mokowe and Kiunga. The pupils are from Basuba, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe villages. The two learning centres were established four years ago to enable students from terror-prone areas to carry on with their studies. In 2014, learners from the minority Boni community were transferred to the safer learning centres, following increased al Shabaab attacks. All schools in Basuba were closed. Basuba MCA Deko Barissa yesterday said despite schools opening for second term, pupils are unable to go back due to flooding and heavy rains. “We are appealing to the government to intervene just like they are doing elsewhere. It should help us move these children to the learning centres otherwise they will miss school. Let them bring choppers for that purpose,” Barissa said. OTHER SCHOOLS More than 2,000 pupils and students are unable to go back to school due to flooding in Lamu. At least 300 pupils from Jericho Primary School, Mpeketoni, have been forced to stay home after five classrooms collapsed this week. Lamu West subcounty education officer Josphat Ngumi on Tuesday said three boys’ toilet blocks at Witu Town Mixed Secondary School caved in following flooding. The students now share toilets with their teachers. The school has 370 students. At Chalaluma Primary School, more than 300 pupils are unable to go to class as the entire compound is flooded. The school was marooned after rivers Tana and Nyongoro burst their banks. At Dide Waride Primary School more than 310 pupils have to wade through floodwaters to get to class. HOUSES SWEPT At Nagele Primary School studies for more than 280 pupils have been suspended as the institution has been turned into a temporary rescue centre for flood victims. More than 3,000 people have been left homeless after their houses were swept away by floods in Chalaluma, Dide Waride, Moa and Matabore villages in Lamu. On Tuesday Lamu deputy county commissioner Louis Rono said Nagele is located on raised ground and cannot be flooded. He said the rescue camp was established at the school to facilitate distribution of humanitarian aid by government agencies and other partners. Rono sent word to all affected residents to report to the camp. He urged those living in vulnerable places to relocate. Rono said most of the affected villages are inaccessible due to the bad state of roads, which has been worsened by flooding. “We have put up this camp to specifically receive all the flood victims. There is enough food and more is still on its way,” he said. But county Red Cross coordinator Kauthar Alwy say some residents have refused to move from their homes to safer areas. “Since last week we are really having a hard time telling people to move to safety. Even some of those whose homes have been swept away don’t want to burge,” she said. “In as much as we want to help them, we can’t reach them from over there. They need to come to the camp at Nagele. We will help in whichever way possible until the floods pass.” The county government has also dispatched a team of disaster management officers to assess the situation in all villages affected by floods and compile a report that will enable them get assistance. Click here for the latest political news