Kenya will offer technical support to Djibouti in the exploration of renewable energy mainly geothermal in the coming years. This emerged when visiting Djibouti President Ismael Omar Guelleh toured Olkaria Geothermal fields in Naivasha where he hailed the steps taken by Kenya in advancing exploration of the key resource. Guelleh who was accompanied by Energy CS Charles Keter and senior government officials from the two nations said his country stood to benefit from the immense knowledge Kenya has on geothermal exploration. Though he did not address the press, Kengen CEO Rebecca Miano hailed the tour, saying it will enhance collaboration between Kenya and Djibouti in renewable energy development. Read: Kenya, Djibouti agree on visa exemption for diplomatic passport holders Miano noted that developments in Olkaria had been pivotal in elevating Kenya to position nine globally in geothermal power generation. “Kenya and Djibouti are strategic partners and this visit will enhance our economic cooperation specifically on the energy sector”. “Our focus is on renewable energy and our investment in geothermal power has already seen power bills reduce significantly from the highs last seen in mid-2014,” she said. Miano said Djibouti was also pursuing a renewable energy agenda and was endowed with abundant geothermal, solar and wind resources. “The country has the potential to generate more than 300 megawatts (MW) of electric power from renewable energy sources”. She said the country’s geothermal resources have been recognized for years adding that Kenya, through KenGen is willing and able to offer a helping hand in the development of geothermal energy. Miano said the company was on course in the development of clean and renewable energy which are set for completion by 2020. “The projects include the Olkaria V 140MW, Olkaria VI 140MW, Olkaria VII 140MW, Olkaria I Unit 6 70MW, Olkaria I Rehabilitation 5.7MW and Olkaria I AU & IV topping plant 60MW”. She said plans were at an advanced stage for the development of Meru Wind Phase I 80MW, Geothermal Wellheads 50MW and Ngong III project 10MW. Also read: Continental free trade deal offers Kenya, Djibouti chance to increase partnership - Uhuru  Click here for the latest political news