Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri and his bodyguard Charles Nyakweba faced several charges on Monday over chaos at a quarry in Kisii county. Obiri is accused of illegally entering Investment Limited Quarry at Geteng in Sameta sub-county on May 6, creating a disturbance and breaching peace. The court heard that he blocked the entrance using his vehicle, registration KCC 448 Q. Read: Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri to face incitement charge over quarry workers attack The MP faced a second cahrge of maliciously damaging property before Ogembo Senior Resident Magistrate Julius Mutai. Nyakweba faced similar charges and a third one of assaulting quarry manager Obed Mogambi. The prosecution said Nyakweba damaged Mogambi’s spectacles worth Sh21,000. The suspects denied the charges and pleaded for release on reasonable cash bail through their lawyer Okong’o Omogeni. Omogeni noted that Obiri is a respected person while Nyakweba is an AP officer, so they cannot abscond. The prosecution, led by Elizabeth Waruguru, objected the application and asked the court to consider bond with sureties of the same amounts.  Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri, his lawyer Okong'o Omogeni and Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Okong'o at Ogembo Law Courts where Obiri with causing disturbance at a quarry in Kisii county, May 14, 2018. /BENSON NYAGESIBA While noting the right to release on bail, the magistrate said released the suspects on Sh100,000 cash bail each as requested by Omogeni. Omogeni asked the court to direct the prosecution to supply his clients with witness statement which they will rely on. The case will be mentioned on May 25 and heard on June 29. Obiri was later taken to a Kisii court where he faced a separate charge of uttering words in his mother tongue, which were meant to incite residents to cause violence. He denied the charge before Senior Resident magistrate Ezekiel Obina and was released on a cash bail of Sh50,000. This case will be mentioned on May 21 and heard on August 20. There was tight security at the two courts as the MPs supporters gathered in large numbers. Some condemned Obiri's arrest saying he was defending their rights. They said blasts at the quarry have resulted in "serious cracks" at the homes and a nearby school. Click here for the latest political news