Children undergoing sexual exploitation is a very sad matter, as it destroys a child’s entire life. This is because after being exposed to exploitation, a child will be affected psychologically and will not be able to live a normal life. The psychological impact might even hamper their marriage life, when they grow up. Sadly, cases of child sexual exploitation have recently increased. The question is: who is to blame for the trend? Is it the community, for being ashamed of reporting such cases? Is it the police, for not arresting the perpetrators? Is it the courts, for not handling the cases properly? Is it the leaders, for killing such cases after being bribed? According to reports by a human rights group, Haki Africa, from January to April this year, there are 105 cases of children who have undergone sexual exploitation in Mombasa. Out of the six subcounties, Kisauni has been reported to have the highest number, standing at 45.  ELDERS COVER UP Haki Africa programmes officer Francis Auma said the cases are increasing as leaders, to be precise village elders, cover up for the perpetrators. “Village elders dismiss cases reported to them by negotiating with the perpetrators, and the cases die,” Auma said, adding that some cases die in court after witnesses are threatened. In light of this, a community based organisation, Okoa Sasa CBO, has dedicated itself to the plight of children who are sexually exploited. Okoa Sasa accommodates children who have undergone sexual exploitation and gives them therapy. Founder and CEO Grace Odembo said she got concerned about the rise in such cases and hence organised an event called ‘Caravan of Love’ with the purpose of celebrating with Mombasa children. Odembo made sure the children had fun, while at the same time seeking information on issues of sexual exploitation and how they would deal with them. Several activities took place, including face painting, dancing, singing and poem recitation. To top it off, the children sat in groups and were advised on how to deal with issues of sexual exploitation. Healthwise, the children got a chance to be dewormed and were given Vitamin A supplements. Children who were above 12 years also got a chance to know their HIV status, as a health worker attended to them.  SIXTY CHILD RAPES A MONTH According to a report gathered by Okoa Sasa, more than 60 kids are reported to have been defiled every month in the Coast region. Odembo’s love for kids drives her to make sure they do not feel neglected when they go through all manner of sexual exploitation. She started Okoa Sasa as a Self-help Group, registering it in 2013 as a CBO. A rescue centre for children was established at Bamburi Mtambo area, known as Sister Leah Rescue Centre, which has since received more than 400 children who have undergone sexual exploitation. The centre has received 15 children from Kisauni subcounty who have undergone sexual exploitation since the year started. Odembo said most of the victims who visit the centre are children who have been defiled by people they know. “We receive children who have been defiled, harassed, beaten, abandoned and those who have been shunned by the community. We work hand in hand with the courts, police, chiefs and village elders to ensure they have received justice. These children are being abused with people very close to them,” she said.  CALL FOR DRASTIC PUNISHMENT She had a message for those who sexually exploit the children, saying that serious measures should be taken against them. “Drastic measures should be taken against those who sexually exploit children, because without these kids, we will not have a community tomorrow,” she said. Her CBO has helped her change the lives of many children. Some have gotten jobs while others have changed their behaviours for the better. Odembo said they also mentor street children on what activities they can get themselves involved in so they change their lives for a better future. “We mentor those street children who have started to engage themselves in sexual behaviours,” she said. Odembo hopes not to see any more cases reported in the rescue centre. The purpose of the event, she said, was to twist things so that the children would be open-minded on how to deal with such cases.