Elgeyo Marakwet did not take part in last week’s devolution conference in Kakamega because we are broke, Governor Alex Tolgos has said. Tolgos skipped the conference. He did not pay the Sh20 million participation fee to enable the county executive and the MCAs to attend the conference. The governor said the county had no cash to attend the three-day forum opened by President Uhuru Kenyatta and closed by Deputy President William Ruto. “I would have wished to attend the meeting, but we have no money. Our roads are in poor state,” Tolgos said in Iten on Tuesday. He skipped the conference to protest against the Commission on Revenue Allocation’s formula, which he said has marginalised his county since 2013. Tolgos said Elgeyo Marakwet received inadequate funds from the national government, which would only cater for salaries and minimal development. “I have been turned into a governor who pays workers’ salaries and nothing else to do,” Tolgos said. The county boss continued: “Some people are planning to conduct a referendum. Give Elgeyo Marakwet that money instead.” Tolgos said salaries for county staff have increased, yet revenues to the county have not been raised. Elgeyo Marakwet receives an average of Sh3.6 billion annually from the national treasury. On average, it collects Sh130 million annually from local revenue. “A member of staff who received Sh600 monthly in hardship allowance now receives Sh13,000,” he said. Read:Counties broke and idle, Treasury should give money - Lonyangapuo On Thursday last week, nominated MCAs Lawi Kibire said the county missed the chance to showcase its investment opportunities and learn from other counties. “It is a shame that we were here idling when others were in Kakamega,” he said. Kibire added that the county assembly will include the subscription fee in the forthcoming county budget to stop the executive from skipping future devolution forums. “Subscription money for the conference does not come from the governor’s pocket. It is taxpayers’ money. It is little money that should have been,” the rep said. Tolgos spent the three days meeting county executives in Iten. Also Read:'Broke' Treasury plans to slash county budget by Sh15 billion Click here for the latest political news