Ramadhan is the ninth month in the Islamic
calendar. Muslims around the world mark it by fasting for 30
days consecutively. It is a dry fast during the
day, meaning observers go without eating or drinking anything from morning to evening. The ritual should be
accompanied with good deeds. People are expected to be kind, give alms to the poor, read the Holy Quran as often as possible, wake up in the
middle of the night and pray. Fasting has health and spiritual benefits. It is an act which the Muslim community believes is a
command from God. Muslims believe the fast makes the
rich and the poor equal, as they are all required to fast. Health-wise, it tends to cut down some
weight. In the evening, most break the fast with
dates, while others use water.  MOON CONFUSION Kenyans start fasting right
after the Chief Kadhi announces sighting of the new moon. There tend to be divisions, as some Muslims start to fast after hearing the moon has been sighted in the Arabian countries, while others wait for the
Chief Kadhi's announcement. Speaking to the Star, Chief Kadhi Ahmed Mohdhar said: “I prefer seeing the moon by myself, or if
I hear of the sighting from East African countries.” That’s when he
announces to Kenyans to begin the fast on the next day. He said confusion should not be there in the first place, since Arabian counties are far from East African ones, and therefore differ in geographical location and time, affecting sighting of the moon. During Ramadhan, the Muslim community prays a lot, especially at night, where they are required to go to the mosques. Muslims even wake up to conduct prayers as early as 3am, as others conduct their prayers
all through the night in mosques. As security is a concern at night, it is usually enhanced in this month for the safety of the community. Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya organising secretary Mohamed Khalifa thanked the government for ensuring Muslims can worship freely. He said the community should also ensure the night is safe to conduct prayers. Criminal gangs are
well known to the community as youths from local areas, he said.  WHO IS ELIGIBLE The Chief Kadhi said it is
obligatory for everyone from 15-75 years to fast. “Most people above the age of 75 are not able to fast,” he said. Children and old people are exempted
from the fast, but if they are able to, then they can do so. Travellers and breastfeeding mothers are
also exempted from the fast but are required to compensate for the lost days. Women in their menstrual cycle are
completely restricted from the fast but are expected to compensate. Fatuma Ali, 80, is grateful as
she is able to complete the 30-day obligatory fast. “I hope God will keep me strong to finish all the days as I did last year,”
she said. Sophia Juma, a mother of two, says her nine-year-old firstborn son, Juma Hashim, does not want to miss a day without
fasting during this holy month. She says it is usually difficult for his
son for the first three days, but he gets used to it thereafter. “My boy gets weak on the first days to a
point where I encourage him to eat but he refuses, as he is determined to
complete his fast just like every Muslim,” Sophia said. She said his courage encourages his four-year-old smaller sister, who is also tempted to fast and ends up saying she has fasted but Sophia forces her to eat. It takes courage, strength and honesty
for one to complete these days of fasting and complete God’s
commands. This is one of the five pillars of Islam, which include: Declaration that there is none to be worshipped but God and
Mohamed is his prophet (Shahada), the five daily prayers (Salah), giving alms
(Zakat), fasting in the month of Ramadhan (Sawm), and pilgrimage to Mecca (Hajj).