Nairobi Woman Rep Esther Passaris and lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi have gone gloves off in a raging debate on change of the constitution. "On the raging debate on constitutional reforms I am 100% with DP Ruto," Ahmednasir said via Twitter on Wednesday. DP William Ruto has been vehemently opposing proposed constitutional changes being pushed by NASA leader Raila Odinga. On Monday, the DP scaled up his onslaught on Raila and branded those pushing for constitutional change as "lazy and incompetent". Read: Ruto intensifies attack on Raila, says referendum must be people-driven "We can't agitate 24 hours non-stop for constitutional reforms simply to improve the future political fortunes of individuals who have perennially failed to win the popular mandate," Ahmednasir said. But in a quick rejoinder, Passaris lashed at the lawyer saying he should not be telling lies during the month of Ramadhan. "Failed to win? Really? A man of your intellect, during the month of Ramadhan, cannot pretend to be oblivious to the fact that our country electoral body did not conduct #FreeFairCredibleElections. It's a fact known by both sides of the divide," she said. But Ahmednasir quickly asked Passaris to tell Kenyans whether she won the Woman rep position fairly or not. Passaris answered back: "Yes. During this auspicious month, we are expected to be truthful with ourselves and others." "Any other month I can excuse that which I cannot change but during this Holy Month I can aspire to instil the importance of honest reflection." Not convinced by Passaris explanation, the lawyer said in their religion, the truth does not depend on the month. "It is a cardinal religious duty 24 hours. And my tweet is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Constitutional amendments to serve temporal and transient needs of individuals are bogus...very bogus," he said. Buoyed by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s opposition to the referendum, Ruto said those pushing for the law change are bitter election losers. In an apparent reference to the former Prime Minister, Ruto said Kenyans must be wary of “politicians who use the Constitution as a bogeyman”. Ruto and Raila are locked in a nasty political duel that could jeopardise the handshake deal that was meant to, among others, pacify the country and refocus on development. Read: 'Handshake' at risk as Raila, Ruto clash On Monday, Raila allies launched a scathing attack on Ruto, branding him Kenya’s enemy number one, in a vicious escalation of hostilities since the March 9 truce. Read: Why Ruto is opposing Constitutional changes Click here for the latest political news