Police have arrested three fraudsters including a Greek national who have been conning people millions of money pretending to be buying properties. The cartels consist of a chain of people purporting to be brokers, lawyers and property valuers. They use the foreigner as a "rich client" pretending to buy land or luxurious houses from unsuspecting sellers. Those arrested are Annols Agalitos alias John Pappas. Others are Lennox Katana Sifa from Malindi who acts as a valuer and at times as a lawyer and Chris Joseph. Read: Be wary of crybercafe frauds who copy papers for loans, teachers told Pappas was arrested in Nairobi while Sifa was nabbed at his Kakonneni home in Malindi Sub-county. Police are still hunting for the others in the network who are still at large. Malindi OCPD Matawa Muchangi confirmed the arrest saying the suspects were being held at the Malindi Police pending investigations to complete. Speaking on phone, Muchangi said the two Kenyans and the Greek national defrauded one lady claiming they wanted to buy a house. “Whoever has complaints should report to the police for action to be taken, Members of the public should be cautious and not trust even foreigners as anybody can a con man,’’ he said. Two of the victims -women were reportedly conned over Sh2 Million in separate incidents that led to the arrest of the suspects. Gladys Kiptoo, a teacher and a business lady from Malindi was reportedly linked to the cartel unknowingly by Bernard Ngonyo who was allegedly conned over Sh 50,000 while selling a four-acre piece of land. On the material day, Kiptoo who lost over Sh1.5 million said she met a guy called Ian Kitsao and connected to another person only called Langat who told her there was a foreigner seeking to buy a house in Watamu. Kiptoo took them to Watamu and got a willing seller with a house worth Sh15 million. She said on the material day John Kamau ( Lennox Sifa the Valuer) said they could place the value of the property at Sh 25 Million upon getting money. She said the ‘valuer’ told her to part with Sh. 700,000 with Sh 300,000 down payment while the rest was to be paid after the house was bought. Kiptoo who was now acting as a broker said she borrowed Sh250,000 and sent the money through Mpesa but still the deal did not mature. After some time She said Pappas called her saying he had sent Sh 25 million to his lawyer. “Somebody called me introduced himself as a lawyer and confirmed to have received the Sh.25 million but suggested that he gets his commission as the owner could refuse to part with the money after its banked,’’ she said. Kiptoo gave out her car and borrowed money to get Sh 1.1 million expecting to get her Sh. 10 million commission in a days time. The agreement was to do the transaction in the bank but since it was late she proposed to complete the process the following day. She was offered lunch at an area called Mbuzi wengi in Malindi town while still having the Sh. 1.1 million cash she had borrowed. After lunch, she said one of them left then followed by Ian who left with the money without informing her. “I called him after seeing the bag was missing and he confirmed that he was having the money and I should not worry as he was going to Watamu,’’ she said amid sobs. Its after a short moment that all the numbers she had including that of the foreigner the lawyer, the valuer and Ian went off. Another victim Florence Nzioka also lost Sh.502,000 to the same fraudsters after they approached her claiming they wanted to buy her 12-acre piece of land in Gongoni Magarini Sub County. Also read: Nine suspected M-Pesa fraudsters arrested in Eldoret police raid  Click here for latest political news 