After skipping the much publicised Black Panther premiere in Kisumu, renowned Hollywood actress
Lupita Nyong'o surprised art lovers and
film enthusiasts in the lakeside city when she jetted home on the May 5-6 weekend. At hand to receive the
daughter of the soil were her parents Anyang’ Nyong’o and Dorothy Nyong’o, and Arts executive Achie Alai. Lupita was accompanied
by Ghanaian-British architect Sir David Frank Adjaye, who was the lead designer of the National Museum of African
American History and Culture in Washington, DC. Lupita met artistes of all
genres in Kisumu and gained an understanding of their needs and aspirations. She and Adjaye later met NASA leader Raila Odinga, who welcomed their support for the arts in Kisumu county for the benefit of Kenya as a whole. The duo's visit preceded plans to develop an ultramodern
iconic Arts and Culture Centre in Kisumu. The region is awash with artistes, and
the desire to revolutionise the art industry has existed for ages. The team visited
several cultural sites and arts facilities in Kisumu, such as Kanyakwar
Cultural Centre, Goan Institute, Kisumu Museum and Kisumu Social Hall. The team also
enjoyed a boat cruise along Lake Victoria. They also visited artisans at their
work spaces. Later, the team had a
joint meeting with Kisumu artistes, where representatives of various art genres
presented issues impacting the arts industry. Governor Nyong'o
promised to invite artistes to join the Kisumu County Economic and Social
Council that will take care of the relationship between the government and
private sector through formulated regulations. He encouraged the
young and the older artistes to hype their stories and activities for the world
to notice. He said the
establishment of an ultramodern art centre will greatly promote the arts, culture,
livelihood and tourism of Kisumu county. Lupita appreciated the
artistes for taking their time to join her and thanked them for speaking their minds. She urged
local artistes to master their art and promote high quality. She said Kisumu county is rich in talent and has impressive potential. Present were GoDown Arts Centre director Joy Mboya and colleague Garnet Olunya, musicians Suzanne Owiyo, Nina Ogot and Winyo, comedians Jalang'o and Eric Omondi, filmmaker Andrew White, MC JaKakamega, film producer Albert Wandago and graphic artist Kwame Nyong'o. 