Victims of flooding in Tana River want the county to allocate them land on higher ground so they can build houses that withstand disasters. They noted on Friday that they are forced to live in dilapidated IDP camps - dirty and without water - thereby bearing the risks of contracting diseases and attacks by wild animals. At least 64,000 have been left homeless since the heavy rains season began. At Minjila IDP camp, Fatuma Kurawa said she and others had loved there for about three weeks, "without proper shelter despite the heavy rains". “Children are suffering. All our crops were destroyed. We got tents and relief food in the past but we have not received any help this time round," said the mother of three, who hails from Ferry area near River Tana.  /ALPHONCE GARI  /ALPHONCE GARI Victim Mwanadie Said said they dig the ground up to relieve themselves as there are no toilets. "There may be a cholera outbreak due to the state of life at the camps," she said, adding the circumstance was not new so the county government should find them land. "That way we will carry on with our farming activities, knowing we will not lose property in future." The county, the national government and humanitarian organisations such as Kenya Red Cross Society have admitted that the situation is overwhelming.  /ALPHONCE GARI  /ALPHONCE GARI Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana said the construction of stronger houses in safer areas was part of the county's long term plans. But he noted that such plans are costly and that Tana River cannot implement them without the support of other organisations. "This type of disaster was last witnessed in 1961," he said. "There are fears that the water levels are rising, which will worsen the problem. We do not know when the rains will stop. People have nowhere to go as their homes are surrounded by water. They should begin moving to safer grounds." Red Cross says the county has 108 camps but that there could be more victims as some parts cannot be accessed. Related: 44 swept to death as Nakuru dam bursts wall Also read: One more body found, 22 identified after Solai dam tragedy Click here for the latest political news