Three Kenya Forest Service senior officials were suspended indefinitely on Thursday during a crackdown on illegal logging. They were accused of being behind cartels involving the community, businessmen and government officials involved in the charcoal trade. The trade has led to destruction of Dakatcha Woodland Forest in Kilifi county. The three were said to have issued permits to charcoal transporters, despite the ban on logging. A 90-day logging — and charcoal burning — moratorium was imposed on February 24 in all public and community forests. Despite complaints, it could be extended, with modifications. The Dakatcha Woodland, under threat of eradication, is classified as an indigenous forest. Reports indicate that Dakatcha Woodland, a community forest supported by the Kilifi government, has lost 49,421 acres in 10 years. Each year about 4,942 acres are destroyed through charcoal burning. Acting KFS chief conservator of forests Monica Kalenda said they ordered the three officials to step aside to pave way for investigations into Dakatcha Woodland destruction. She made the announcement after touring the area and meeting county and KFS officials. For two weeks, there have been reports of a huge number of trucks transporting charcoal from Dakatcha Woodland.  ELIMINATE CARTELS Journalists witnessed the extent of the destruction during an aerial surveillance tour of the forest. Charcoal burning was going on and hundreds of sacks of charcoal could be seen. Kalenda said they have stopped any charcoal movement, harvesting or any activity in the forest. “We are taking the matter seriously,” she said. Kalenda said they will deploy officers working with other security agencies to crack down on and eliminate the cartels. Francis Kagema, the Nature Kenya Coast regional coordinator, termed the Dakatcha Woodland destruction devastating. "We have seen lorries from as far as Limuru coming for charcoal in Dakatcha. There is a well-established cartel that has business people working with government officers, including politicians. It has been difficult to control charcoal production in Dakatcha,” he said. Kagema said the charcoal traders hire a large number of workers from all over the country. “A recent estimate showed 8,000 workers in the forest. It’s good the KFS director has focused on Dakatcha after a 12-year outcry, the endangered Clarke’s Weaver bird can now breathe easy. It’s home may be saved,” Kagema said.