Rampant cholera cases in Siaya have forced residents to end open defecation and use toilets. The situation always got worse because of rains and flooding. But now toilets are the norm. In the past five years, the county has struggled with diarrhoea diseases such as typhoid and amoebic dysentery due to open defecation. Lack of toilets in the county is said to the major contributor to these diseases. Every time there is an outbreak, as many as 50 lives are lost. Gem Public Health officer Judith Ongeche said efforts by health workers’ to curb diseases were difficult before the use of toilets. Ongeche said Gem was hard-hit by cholera before mobilising residents and educating them on the importance of using toilets instead of defecating in the open. This contaminated their water and caused cholera. “Through community health volunteers and financial support from Unicef, we have ensured all the 339 villages in Gem are free of open defecation by constructing toilets,” Ongeche said. County Health director Dr Omondi Owino said the door-to-door campaign was successful in educating residents on use of toilets to curb cholera. “By curbing of diarrhoea-related diseases through use of toilets we have become a national leader as the second county to be free of open defecation,” Omondi said. Omondi said in the last five years, the county has eradicated open defecation by 85 per cent. “The sensitisation to have toilets in each household doesn’t stop there. We encourage residents to wash their hands after using the toilet,” Omondi said. The Health chief said they have created tip-taps using jerrycans next to the toilets that everyone uses. County Health executive Dorothy Owino they have also trained community health volunteers to teach residents general hygiene. She said residents have been advised to always cover toilets with lids to prevent flies from flying to the toilets and then back to their food. Veronica Adhiambo from Gem, a cholera survivor, said use of toilets has tremendously reduced cholera that broke out every rainy season. Adhiambo said she contracted cholera after she drank contaminated river water during the last rainy season. She confirmed that cases of cholera and other diarrhea-related diseases have declined in their village since they started using toilets. Adhiambo said five residents died of cholera in Orombe village Seventy-year-old Philistia Sumba from Alego Usonga, another cholera survivor, said she was forced to dig a 10-foot-deep toilet by herself for two weeks after she recovered. “I was determined not to suffer from cholera again, so I decided to build my toilet,” she said. “I also did’t have money.” The county promises to build toilets for those who cannot afford them and build them in markets. Click here for the latest political news