Could the regular meetings attended by more than 70 poll losers from Mount Kenya be the start of a revolution against President Uhuru Kenyatta, or are they just preparations for the 2022 election? Corridors has learnt that the group comprising parliamentary losers in last year's election has been secretly meeting at a hotel in Nairobi's Kilimani area. The cloak and dagger talks have been led by Kirinyaga Central's Josiah Murigu and could cause some discomfort to rival politicians from the region. Corridors will keep a close eye on the group calling itself Jubilee Parliamentary Aspirants, or JPA. Troubles threatening to push out government interests in one of the major banks are part of a grand scheme by a prominent politician to devalue the lender and force shareholders to sell their stake. Word has it the politician, one of the most powerful and influential in Kenya, has proxies within the lender who are working hard to ensure it becomes an enviable business so it can be sold on the cheap. The troubled bank, according to our mole, has been targeted by several other shrewd businessmen but the politician appears to be ahead of the race to acquire it after the devaluation plan. The national spy agency is said to have infiltrated cartels run by a top state official believed to have made a killing by ripping off taxpayers. Corridors has learnt the National Intelligence Agency planted agents who joined in on the official's intricate scams that generated millions. A small bird whispered to Corridors, “They even had firms registered in China, which they used to collect evidence against the suspect.” Those close to the spymaster's activities told us the team has collected water-tight evidence and that it’s "just a matter of days before the state official faces the music". Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and Deputy Governor James Nyoro appear to have a hatchet that just won't be buried, as was witnessed at the Windsor Hotel last week as key Jubilee stakeholders met to audit the 2017 polls. While the duo attended the meeting, Corridors has learnt they did not arrive together. In fact, they had differing opinions, even when Kiambu elites accused Waititu of running down the county. Our moles explained that Waititu and Nyoro often differ on policy and governance. Nyoro is said to have contemplated quitting sometime back after Waititu stormed into his office, just before a heated exchange within the hearing range of several county staff. Click here for the latest political news