Governors, Senators and MPs on Saturday lashed out at Baringo Senator Gideon Moi over his alleged role in blocking DP William Ruto from meeting retired president Daniel Arap Moi on Thursday. Both the DP Ruto and Gideon were among hundreds of mourners who turned up at the burial of the late Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim at Kimoriot in Mochongoi. Senator Moi received a showdown as the leaders assured Ruto of their support in his 2022 presidential bid. "You are fake because you allowed an outsider Raila Odinga who opposed Jubilee during the previous election to greet your father yet you turned to lock outside your own brother," Kapseret MP Oscah Sudi said. Ruto was locked out at former president Moi's Kabarak home on the excuse that the former head of state was having a date with his medical doctors. Gideon is a son of the retired President. Ruto flew to Moi's home in Kabarak but failed to meet him after waiting for three hours. "Kenyans have already decided it is Ruto and that chapter has been closed," Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono said. Read: Was DP Ruto blocked from seeing Moi in Kabarak? Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen urged people of Rift Vally to respect both leaders. "Let the two bulls continue fighting and if one shows some signs of infertility in 2022 then he should be castrated," Bowen said. Other leaders present were Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Bonet Governor Joyce Laboso and Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis. The rivalry between Ruto and the Mois intensified in 2006 when Ruto backed ODM leader Raila Odinga for President and Moi supported his former deputy Mwai Kibaki for the 2007 polls. Ruto's rivalry shifted to Moi's son Gideon and it intensified in the last election when Ruto exchanged bitter words with Gideon as he campaigned for Jubilee candidates in Baringo. Ruto fielded Water CS Simon Chelugui against Gideon. When Gideon retained his seat, Ruto pushed successfully for Chelugui's appointment to the Cabinet. On April 14, Raila visited Moi in Kabarak and was warmly welcomed, photos were taken and Gideon was present. That friendly meeting was interpreted as an endorsement of the former PM's role in the famous handshake, at the very least. "We did not know he was coming. A visit like this one is normally organised properly through Mzee's aides and members of the family, especially his son Gideon, would be asked to be present. He was not present," a Moi aide said on Thursday. A statement from Moi's office stated that Ruto went to his Kabarak home with Energy CS Charles Keter, Ainabkoi MP William Chepkut and lawyer Stephen Kipkenda. Moi's spokesman Lee Njiru confirmed that Ruto visited but did not see Moi because the 94-year-old former President was with his doctors. Read:Exercises with doctors keep Moi from meeting Ruto in Kabarak Also read; Why Ruto went to see Mzee Moi  Click here for the latest political news 