Perhaps the most memorable of all election campaign promises ever made here in Kenya, was the one by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy William Ruto ahead of the 2013 election. This was the pledge that if elected, all Standard One pupils would be provided with a laptop. This promise was made in a country where, if you go just a little way off a major highway, chances are that you will see children walking to or from school barefoot and clothed in rags that are supposedly their school uniforms. In short, this pledge betrayed a tragically misguided sense of priorities. But all the same, it was widely believed. And indeed, we must admit that laptops have been delivered to many primary schools, including some without electricity. Now, if a candidate for the presidency, or even governor, were to promise economic opportunity for all, I think this would be met with much more scepticism than was the case with the “free laptops project”. And yet the opportunity to create personal wealth through the individual’s own hard work is perhaps what most Kenyans yearn for more than anything else. So here is the question: What realistic chance is there that the county governments will prove to be centres of economic opportunity? For it is not enough to say devolution serves to bring services closer to the people. It should be equally true that devolution brings economic opportunity closer to the people. This brings me to a point I made a few weeks ago in my series of comments on devolution: The fact is that what we have now is basically the same economy we inherited at Independence, based on the export of primary agricultural products supported by some tourism. And that this has proved to be woefully ill-equipped to generate prosperity for the 44 million of us, as it was an economic system set up to benefit a few thousand “White settler” plantation farmers and more or less marginalise the roughly three million locals who were in Kenya at the start of the 20th century. Now, while it is true enough that the European colonialism of the 19th and early 20th centuries was essentially a land-grab by people who enjoyed a huge technological advantage over their victims (especially in the little matter of having guns and canons, while our noble ancestors only had bows and arrows) there was more to it than that. The Europeans were actually seeking economic opportunities that they — as individuals — had failed to find in their own countries. And how they went about creating such economic opportunities for themselves is highly instructive. What they did, above all else, in their quest to transform what was basically wide-open savannah grasslands into thriving large-scale farms was to experiment relentlessly. Whether it was with crops such as cotton, wheat, pyrethrum, tea or coffee; or with beef or dairy cows; they worked day and night to figure out what would produce the best returns on investment, in what they intended to be a “White settler colony” for a few centuries at least. So, if we are to move beyond our continuing dependence on primary agricultural produce and tourism, there must be constant experimentation to see what works well: What high-value products Kenyans can come up with, which have a ready market, not just locally but also globally. And this is why I proposed last week, that the commercial breeding of wild animals (and the “plains game” like elands in particular) could be a viable option for creating wealth in the Northern Kenya counties. It will of course take exhaustive experimentation to get it right. But consider what is already being done in South Africa, where wildlife ranching is a long established commercial activity: A Black South African, Tebogo Mogashoa, was recently elected as the president of the Wildlife Ranching South Africa Association. The reports specify “Mogashoa breeds buffalo, sable antelope and roan antelope, as well as common plains game such as impala and gemsbok.”   