I can hear voices in the background. Mike is obviously with some people. They sound male. Makes me wonder then, why he finds it necessary to lie about the reason he left. Bros over hos - I get it. Do your thing. You don’t need to lie to me about it. “Ok, enjoy yourself,” I say. “Babe. You know I love you, right?” he asks, just as he did earlier. “Yes,” I say and hang up. This mutha f**ker is still lying to me. What is he? A car sales man? If you want to show me you care about me, why stay away from me and then try to reassure me with words? Actions, honey. That’s all that counts. And the silly thing is, because the sex is so good, I’ll give it to him anyway. He really doesn’t need to feed me some BS. I get a good night sleep, the type you only get after some really good loving. The next time I see Mick, he pulls some crazy shit again. This time we’re meeting at a restaurant. He doesn’t show up. He keeps calling to say he’s on the way but I can hear male voices, again in the background. If he’s tied up in meetings, why not just say so? I give up and pay the bill and leave. I meet up with some friends and we have drinks. Mick calls 3 hours later. Did he expect me to be sitting in a restaurant all this time waiting on his ass? He asks me to go over to his place and I refuse. An hour later he calls again. He says he wants to see me – Just to talk. He says he owes me an explanation. My curiosity is piqued so I give in. When I get to his place, he apologizes and tries to get me out of my clothes. “So this is all you want?” I ask. “I’m some sort of booty call?” “No,” he says. “I like you a lot.” Here is where it gets tricky. I’m honest with Mike and offer him a no strings attached relationship. I mean it. The sex is great and I don’t want to give it up. So instead of being angry at him all the time because he can’t live up to boyfriend expectations, why not just keep things physical? Mike said no. “What? Absolutely not,” he said. “I told you, I like you.” Somehow not using the term ‘love’ makes it sound genuine. I let him take my clothes off and make love to me. But after I come, I make him get off me. He’s not done yet and it’s a really bitchy move but punishing him like this is all I can think of. He takes it in stride and falls asleep. I wake him in the middle of the night and this time there is no love making. For the first time since we met he uses me. I feel like a hole and not a person. Something has shifted inside him. I come anyway. And this time I let him climax too. He is up first thing the next morning. “I have to go for a meeting,” he tells me. “It’s ok, go back to sleep,” he says as I try to get up. “I’ll be back by 11am.” I doze off again. He leaves me a fresh towel to use after I shower and leaves. He’s being so nice to me that I begin to think that the shift I sensed last night was all in my head. He returns at 11am on the dot. “Are you still mad at me?” he asks.