The government has moved to the Court of Appeal to challenge High Court’s decision that barred it from spying on mobile phone users. Communications Authority, through lawyer Wambua Kilonzo, wants the court to set aside the judgement delivered by Justice John Mativo on April 19 and the petition at the High Court be dismissed. CA says Justice John Mativo erred in law and fact by failing to hold that the petition before him was hypothetical. “The judge erred in law by making findings which were not supported by the evidence on record and by ignoring the uncontroverted position of the evidence adduced by the appellant in the High Court,” Wambua says. Read : Blow to State as court halts spying on phones CA argues the judge erred by creating his own case on behalf of activist Okiya Omtatah and adjudicating on it. The regulator also claims the court erred in law by holding that the installation of the device management system (DMS) threatens to or violates the right to privacy of subscribers. “In arriving at the entirety of the decision, the judge erred in law and fact by failing to appreciate the concept of DMS as database of technical parameters and not of content of communication in devices,” Wambua says. In April, the court held that the government’s plan to tap into private mobile conversations, through broadband communication networks, was illegal and a gross violation of consumer rights. Justice Mativo said the plan by the Communication Authority to instal spy gadgets was adopted in a manner inconsistent with the Constitution. Mativo also said there wasn’t adequate public participation prior to its adoption and implementation. The system was to be implemented through Safaricom, Airtel and Telkom. “Subscribers of the three mobile companies were not engaged at all in the public consultation hence [the plan] is null and void for all purposes,” he ruled. Also read : Spy on suspects' phones, not all Kenyans, MP Mwangangi tells CA The judge said CA was obligated to draft and implement a meaningful programme of public participation and stakeholder engagement in the process leading to the decision, policy and implementation of the DMS. The ruling was in a case filed by Omtatah. Click here for the latest political news 