Football Kenya Federation’s decision to honour an invitation to the Intercontinental Cup tournament set for India on June 2 has ignited a fresh impasse between them and SportPesa Premier League leaders Gor Mahia. Barely a week ago, FKF were in the spotlight for fixing two friendly matches outside the Fifa calendar hence igniting uproar from football stakeholders who challenged the decision to interfere with the smooth running of the league matches. The Nick Mwendwa-led federation forced the Kenya Premier League, the body mandated to organize and run the league matches, to shelve the ‘Mashemeji Derby’ paving way for the friendlies which were touted to give the national team head coach Sebastien Migne the chance to gauge the calibre of the local players. Gor Mahia have accused the federation of seeking to engage their players in the forthcoming Four Nations tournament (Intercontinental tournament) at the expense of the domestic football activities. K’ogalo are set to play Sony Sugar today at Moi Stadium, Kisumu in a league match before embarking on SportPesa Super Cup title defence against Zanzibar-based Jeshi La Kujenga Uchumi(JKU) on June 3 at Afraha Stadium. Today, Gor will be looking to open a six-point gap between them and second-placed Ulinzi Stars besides reducing the matches in hand to three. According to the team manager Jolawi Obondo, the senior players who played in the recently concluded Harambee Stars friendlies could accompany the team to India for the tournament which is contrary to their plans. "We are bound to play Sony today and we don’t have our senior players with us. The federation is asking to travel with our players to India for the tournament which clearly jeopardises our plan to prepare for the league match and the Super Cup." "We are aware Sony sit at the bottom of the standings and we cannot afford to underrate them by fielding our second string squad. We have a unbeaten run record to safeguard and the Super Cup to defend and the presence of every player matters a lot. We hope the federation will consider our plea and let the players join us in preparations for the domestic assignments," he said. The club’s captain Harun Shakava, Philemon Otieno, Boniface Oluoch, Francis Kahata, Humprey Mieno and Joash Onyango —who all play an integral part in the senior team, are bound to jet out for the India tournament where Kenya is set to play New Zealand, India and Chinese Taipei. Click here for the latest political news