A knifeman has killed one person and wounded four in a suspected terror attack in central Paris, French officials say. The attacker was then shot dead by police in the Opéra district. Witnesses say they heard him shout "Allah Akbar". So-called Islamic State (IS) later said one of its "soldiers" had carried out the attack on Saturday evening. Judicial sources told French media the attacker was a man born in 1997 in the southern Russian republic of Chechnya. The sources said his parents had been held for questioning. Interior Minister Gérard Collomb said the victim of the attack was a 29-year-old man, but gave no further details. French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted (in French): "France has once again paid in blood, but will not give an inch to the enemies of freedom." How did the events unfold? The attacker began stabbing passers-by at about 21:00 local time (19:00 GMT) on the rue Monsigny. Eyewitnesses described him as a young man with brown hair and a beard, dressed in black tracksuit trousers. The
man tried to enter several bars and restaurants but was blocked by
people inside. Police arrived at the scene within minutes. They first tried to stop the assailant with a stun-gun before shooting him dead. An
eyewitness, named as Gloria, told AFP news agency: "We didn't know what
was going on, we were quickly moved inside the bar, I went outside and I
saw a man lying on the floor." Jonathan, a waiter at a local restaurant, told AFP: "I saw him with a knife in his hand. He looked crazy." He
said a woman the attacker had stabbed ran into into the restaurant
bleeding. The assailant tried to follow her inside, but was fended off
and finally fled. Two of the wounded in the attack are in a serious condition but do not have life-threatening injuries. Later in the evening the IS group said it was behind the attack, in a brief statement posted on its news outlet. How did French authorities react? The anti-terrorism unit of the Paris prosecutor's office has launched an investigation. Prime
Minister Edouard Philippe said police were on the scene five minutes
after an emergency call and the attacker was killed "less than nine
minutes later". Collomb praised police for their "cool response". He said his first thoughts were "with the victims of this heinous act". Elswehere in Indonesia, suicide bombers attacked three
churches in the country's second-largest city Surabaya, killing at least
nine people. Police say dozens of others were injured in the
attacks, which occurred within minutes of each other. No group has so
far said it carried them out. TV pictures showed debris scattered around the entrance of one church. Indonesia, the most populous Muslim-majority country, has seen a resurgence of Islamist militancy in recent months. The bombings took place around 07:30 local time (00:30 GMT) The
country's intelligence agency said it was most likely to have been
carried out by an Islamic State-inspired group, Jemaah Ansharut Daulah. Days
earlier, five members of the Indonesian security forces were killed
during a standoff with militant Islamist prisoners at a high-security
prison on the outskirts of the capital Jakarta. Click here for the latest local political news