Private security guards are likely to be issued with guns in a move aimed at addressing various forms of crimes. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi has already told private security firms the government will withdraw armed police from the Cash In Transit (CIT) business from July. This will leave the firms with the responsibility of escorting cash and other valuables for various institutions and individuals. Matiangi told managers of the firms the government will issue gun licenses to vetted companies who will, in turn, arm their personnel to conduct their businesses. “Be ready to arm your guards because we will withdraw officers from some of these businesses like CIT. you will be in charge of the guns issued to you and any case of misuse will be punished,” said Matiangi. He made the remarks on Wednesday when he met members of the Private Security Regulatory Authority in his office. He made orders to have the Authority start its work immediately and ensure the welfare of the guards is looked into. Matiangi said they intend to have a centralized data of all guards in the country and that by the end of the year they hope the person will have a similar uniform. The guards will also have a single identification document which will identify one. The CS told those present to ensure the guards are professional in all ways and added only reputable organisations will be left to exist. The Authority is set to start its operations in two weeks and will among others come up with regulations to guide who will be granted a permit to carry the weapons. This would be a dream come true by the guard's unions that have been crying to be issued with the weapons. The guards will have to be trained and paid well before they are allowed to carry the weapons. Few private security groups are currently issued with permits to carry weapons. These mostly are those manning ranches. Interior ministry is currently developing a training manual for private security officers will soon be unveiled so as to improve private security coordination with other security agencies in sharing of information and intelligence to security authorities. The Kenya National Private Security Workers’ Union (KNPSW) officials welcomed the move even as it decried the increasing number of attacks against private security guards. “This is good news because the country is grappling with armed robberies which put the lives of private guards at risk. You cannot stop an armed robber with a rungu. This has exposed us to more danger than even armed soldiers in Somalia,” secretary general Isaac Andabwa said. The official said part of the regulations to guide the issuance of the weapons will require that guards should be trained on how to use and handle the guns. Members of Parliament while supporting the Private Security Industry Regulation Act 2010 refused to include the need to arm the guards saying doing so would be wrong without proper training and regulation. The law provides for a framework for cooperation between private security companies and the national security organs. It is on this basis that authorities want to allow the guards to be armed. Read:Lobby group opposes plans to issue security guards with guns The objective of the Act is to provide a framework of regulation of private security services industry in accordance with the values and principles set out in the constitution. The law calls for the registration of all security firms, training of its personnel and proper remuneration for all private security guards. It will also provide for guidelines for foreign ownership and control of business operating as a security service provider and provide for the establishment of the Authority. The Authority shall ensure reasonable access of its services in all parts of the Republic, so far as it is appropriate to do so, having regard to the nature of the service. Read:Parliament to decide if security guards should have guns The Authority will set standards, create an enforcing mechanism, improve personnel welfare and offer redress from unscrupulous players. It shall be governed by a board consisting of a chairperson appointed by the President. The president appointed Prof Stephen Ng’ang’a as the chairman of the board. The membership includes the Principal Secretaries from State Department of Interior, national Treasury and State Department of labour and representatives from private security industry association. Others are National Police Service, National Intelligence Service (NIS), national private security workers union, residents association and Kenya Private Sector Alliance respectively. Click here for the latest political news