Has the Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko thrown his hands up following his 'dismal' performance in nearly all the sectors? Well, Corridors has it that the politician famous for public drama and empty spectacle retreated to his Machakos county home as one way of hiding from reality. Mountains of garbage continue to pile in the streets, street urchins are still a menace despite a crackdown that was carried out only two weeks ago. Roads are in pathetic state. What has worried most Nairobi residents is the fact that all sorts of criminals have taken over nearly all the streets, smoking bhang and wielding knives without fear. Hawkers are having fun after Sonko decided to go on self exile. Nairobians are left to wonder about who will save the sinking ship. ***** Is the Buruburu police boss aware the stretch between Outering Road and the roundabout at Kenya Assemblies of God Church has become a dangerous zone, especially in the early morning? In less than a month, there have been several cases of robberies by thugs riding on motorcycles. Only last week, a daring thug who was wielding a pistol, robbed pedestrians of Buruburu Phase I who were on their way to work. It was however saddening that there was no response from Cotton police post, a stone's throw away from the scene of crime. Residents now want the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to set a trap for the two-man gang who have made life hell for the law-abiding majority. ***** The lifestyle of a young man, who until recently worked as a communication expert in the office of a governor from Nyanza, has changed all over sudden. Before he left his previous employer, he was not known to own what he owns today - he now drives a top of the range car and some few months ago, he bought a house in Nairobi county. His flashy life has left more questions than answers among his friends and peers. ***** A first term Woman Representative seems still excited with her election to Parliament. The MP, despite National Assembly being on a month-long recess, has been frequenting Parliament with her family almost every day. The MP, over the weekend, was allover Parliament with a male companion believed to be her husband taking selfies in literally every corner of the august House. Corridors has learnt that the excited woman has however taken months without visiting her county which is not far from the City and only sneaks in when there is a big funeral or when a senior Government official visits her constituency. Click here for
the latest political news