The Kenya National Highways Authority is set to introduce Africa's first virtual weighbridges by end of June. They will supplement the existing static ones and play a key role in beefing up surveillance of cargo on transit, the agency said. The weighbridges will not require vehicles to stop but will instead scan and take details remotely as they pass through the physical locations. The details will be transferred to a command centre simultaneously as the government looks to save Kenyan highways from excess axle loads. "There will be no running away with overloads," Muita Ngatia, KeNHA Deputy Director of Road Assets, said on Monday. Ngatia said the contract for the installation, commissioning, operation and management of the virtual weighbridges has been signed. The bridges will be set up on the Southern Bypass, Mwea, Makutano, Laisamis, Matuu, Garissa, Kamulu and on Kangundo Road. "In western, we will have one in Mayoni, between Kakamega and Busia, and also at Ahero," Ngatia said. "We are in the process of procuring ten more that will be in place by June next year," he said. Read: Kenya road transport enters fast lane with new weighbridges Also read: Athi River Weighbridge is 85% done Click here for the latest political news The Kenya national
highways authority KENHA is set to introduce virtual weighbridges in
a bid to supplement the existing nine static weighbridge stations in
the country. The virtual weigh
bridges will be key in beefing up surveillance of cargo on transit. The virtual weigh
bridges will not require vehicles to stop but instead will instead
scan nad take details remotely as it passes through it. The details will be
transfered to a command centre at the same with the government looks
to streamline cargo transportation which is associated with damaging
of Kenyan highways. Muita Ngatia Deputy
Director Road Assets said that a contract has been signed already for
installation,commisioning and operation and management of ten virtual
weighbridges. “In Nairobi we
have two on Southern By-pass -that is one on either roads-one in Mwea
Makutano,one in Laisamis towards the North,another one in
Matuu,Garissa road,one in Kamulu,Kangundo Road,” in western Kenya we
will have one in Mayoni in between Kakamega to Busia and also at
Ahero,”he said. He added that it is
new in Africa and Kenya will be first to install. He said that there
will be no running away with an overload and it is expected to be
inplace by end of June. “We are in the
process of procuring ten more that will be in place by June next
year,”Ngatia said.