Tier two lender Co-operative Bank took home three awards during the fourth edition of the East Africa banker gala awards on Thursday in Nairobi. The lender was recognised as the best retail bank
in Kenya, the best SME bank in Kenya and the best investment Institution in Kenya, taking home three awards. Other banks feted are Equity Bank, Eco Bank, Barclays, Stanbic, KWFT Bank, CRDB from Tanzania, Gulf bank, SBM of Mauritius, NMB Tanzania among others. The event recognises outstanding performance and excellence in the financial services industry. “We have
over the years worked hard to build a model that enables us to stay close to
the customer, listen to their needs and glean insights on their long-term goals
that we can confidently say we are offering the most competitive value
proposition that SMEs and Retail clients can expect to ever get in this
market,”group MD and CEO Co-operative Bank Gideon Miriuki said. The lender has significant presence in the
SME and Retail banking space and recently secured a Sh15.2
Billion line of credit from the International Finance Corporation for
onward lending to SMEs. “We have over the years worked hard to
build a model that enables us to stay close to the customer, listen to their
needs and glean insights on their long-term goals that we can confidently say
we are offering the most competitive value proposition that SMEs and Retail
clients can expect to ever get in this market,” Muriuki said.  Co-op Bank already enjoys significant presence in the
SME and Retail banking space. It is the recognition of the unique funding needs
of SMEs that the bank negotiated and secured long-term funding from
international development finance institutions essentially to fund SMEs. Habil Olaka, Kenya Bankers Association CEO said the rapidly changing
regulatory environment has proved to be the most disruptive dynamic for banks
in the last couple of years. This includes the enforcement of the Banking
(Amendment) Act in 2016 that introduced arbitrary price controls; and IFRS 9.
Meanwhile, banks contended with Cybersecurity, Land Laws and taxation
matters.