On April 26, a funeral service for one of the greatest sons of Kenya was held at the Ihura Stadium in Murang’a town. I do not consider it a coincidence the service was held at the stadium named in honour of one of the greatest Generals in the Mau Mau war, nor that the memorial service the previous day in Nairobi was at the All Saints Cathedral, a major bastion of the Second Liberation. It is in this Cathedral that we sat in 1992 in the thanksgiving service to welcome Kenneth Matiba back, when he arrived from his treatment in London. Eulogies for the fallen hero were made by mourners led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and by the likes of Raila Odinga, Senator James Orengo and Governor Kiraitu Murungi, who were active in the push for the Second Liberation, alongside Matiba. The younger politicians too gave their eulogies but mainly from what they have read about Matiba. The greatest speech, which those not present did not get to hear about, as it was not analysed in the news, was the sermon by Rt Rev Timothy Gichere, Bishop of the ACK Diocese of Mt Kenya Central, based on the Book of 1 Samuel 12: 1–4. I would urge all leaders and other public servants to read and understand the words of Samuel as he bid farewell to his people after giving them a peaceful transition. He said, “I have been your leader from my youth until this day. Here I stand. Testify against me in the presence of the Lord and his anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I cheated? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hands have I taken a bribe to make me shut my eyes? If I have done any of these things, I will make it right.” And the people replied to Samuel, “You have not cheated or oppressed us. You have not taken anything from anyone’s hand. It was a brave and well-thought out sermon given it was made in the presence of the country’s top leadership and two, considering Matiba was well known for his belief in sheer hard work for creation of wealth — and his fight for a just and fair society and against corruption. Samuel was talking about oppression, fairness and corruption. How many leaders can pose this question to the public they serve and expect the answer Samuel got? Everywhere we turn, people are building substandard houses and dams, which cannot withstand stress, ending up killing kill innocent people because someone somewhere took a bribe to shut their eyes. When it is not about killer roads, due to unroadworthy matatus, we are bombarded with scandals of billions stolen from this or the other public institution, with the most recent being the National Youth Service for the second time. Others in leadership are in the meantime literally unashamedly and with impunity taking oxen and donkeys from the poor they are supposed to serve. After all, they know nothing will happen to them as they will get anticipatory bail — something unknown in law anywhere else in the world except in Kenya —for cases they will then drag in courts forever until ordinary Kenyans forget they existed! When Pope Francis visited Kenya not so long ago and met religious leaders from virtually all faiths, he dwelt a lot on corruption and the grave danger it poses to society and development of nations. President Uhuru Kenyatta has himself taken the front line in the fight against corruption, particularly in light of his Big Four agenda. He has continuously made his stand clear, most recently in his State of the Nation address. Unfortunately, there are those Kenyans who appear to be working on overdrive to frustrate the agenda. Quite obviously, corruption is fighting back. I can state without any fear of contradiction that the greatest enemy today of the development of our nation is corruption. If we are to help the President to make the Big Four agenda succeed, if we are to help ourselves as a nation to achieve our own goals such as the Vision 2030, indeed if we want to develop as a nation, then we must start to seriously rethink our country. Otherwise, in years to come, this shall be remembered as the generation of people, who, like the dinosaurs, ate themselves to extinction. The General Ihuras, the Matibas and all the gallant Kenyans, who died so that our country would be free, will be ashamed of us if that happens. We must, therefore, do everything humanly possible to redeem ourselves. Who, fellow Kenyans, will be Samuel?   Gitura is former Senator, Murang’a