Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion was yesterday blocked from entering his office in an ouster attempt staged by “goons” Sossion was blocked by 10 well built men who did not speak to him. The Kenya National Union of Teachers boss had arrived in his Mfangano Street office in compliance with a court order that lifted his suspension as secretary general. The men said they had strict instructions to block Sossion from the office. Sossion’s pleas to be allowed in fell on deaf ears. “I want teachers to see the goons hired by my colleagues whom I have helped to get the positions they have,” Sossion said. Read: Teachers demand Sossion exit as wrangles in Knut persist He said the men were goons because they did not resemble security personnel. Sossion accused acting chairman Wycliffe Omucheyi and deputy secretary general Hesbon Otieno for his woes. “This is a slap in the face of the judiciary,” Sossion said in reference to the court order. Omucheyi on Friday denied in volvement in Sossion’s woes. “We did not suspend Sossion because he is an MP. There were proper reasons,” Omucheyi said. Sossion said he could only be blocked from office by fresh orders from the Employment and Labour Relations Court. “It is evident that the labour movement in this country is under attack. I’m not surprised by this because it is a betrayal from within,” Sossion said. “I will not leave because only the teachers who voted for me have the powers to remove me.” Sossion denied bad blood between him and the union’s National Executive Council (NEC). [VIDEO] Chaos at KNUT meeting as officials demand Sossion exit BLAME GOVERNMENT “More than 140 delegates endorsed my service until 2021. Only a few individuals within the NEC are being used by the government, through the Teachers Service Commission, to fight me,” Sossion said. The nominated MP promised to seek redress in court. He will sue the two officials for contempt. On Sunday night, Sossion reiterated he will not resign and blamed the government for his woes. “I know the government is very much involved in this and they are very open about it,” he said. Last week, delegates voted Sossion out and appointed Otieno to act as the new secretary general. Sossion said 440 delegates overruled his ouster in a meeting at the KICD on April 30. Click here for the latest political news