Three Kitui MPs have broken ranks with their colleagues and opposed Governor Charity Ngilu’s plan to allow coal mining in the county. Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi and his Kitui east colleague Nimrod Mbai have said their constituents occupying coal areas have not been consulted. Mui coal basin straddles their two constituencies. Kitui Woman Representative Irene Kasalu, who previously endorsed the plans, has beaten a quick retreat and joined the two legislators. On Wednesday Mbai publicly voiced his opposition to Ngilu spearheading coal mining in Mui. He told landowners in coal blocs A and B at Mutito market that Ngilu had nothing do with mining, as that is a function of the national government. “After the county chief toured expansive coal and other mineral zones and announced that resources would soon be extracted,residents are anxious that their interests are yet to be addressed by investors,” Mbai said. He said proper awareness must be created in mineral zones to prepare the residents to cope with disturbances including displacement, the MP said. “Concessions in blocs A and B have not even been done, yet the residents are being told they will be moved to eco-villages,” Mbai said. The county government should work with elected leaders to make sure landowners are not shortchanged but get the right value for their land, he said. Mwingi Central MP Mulyungi said agreements to extract mineral resources, especially coal, were rushed. Woman Rep Kasalu who was born in the Mui coal zone agreed with Mulyungi. The legislators told residents to resist any arm-twisting. They should not allow Fenxi and other companies to start work until contentious issues, including resettlement plans, are addressed. A similar situation unfolded in 2012 when then Mwingi South MP David Musila disagreed with both Ngilu and former Kitui East MP Kiema Kilonzo on the project, with the latter duo opposing it.Coal deposits in Mui are said to be worth Sh3.4 trillion. The stand by the three legislators is likely to further delay extraction of coal and other minerals in the county. Last week, Ngilu announced she had consulted with other leaders on the issue before signing an agreement with Mining CS John Munyes. She has invited mining companies to apply for contracts. The governor says politicians opposing mining want to perpetuate poverty in Kitui. They lack vision, she said.