The bid to remove IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati from office is meant to frustrate the ongoing audit of Sh46 billion spent during last year’s elections. Chebukati yesterday asked the High Court to shield the commission and stop interference with the audit. The electoral commission boss said he is apprehensive MPs will either frustrate or stop the probe. There have been wrangles in the commission after Chebukati sent CEO Ezra Chiloba on compulsory leave last month. Commissioners Consolata Nkatha, Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya announced their resignation, saying Chebukati had failed to provide leadership. Read: Can’t quit, Won’t quit IEBC, Chebukati tells House team Some MPs have demanded the disbandment of the commission. “It is prudent, fair and in the public interest that this court halts all efforts designed to frustrate the audit,” Chebukati said. He was responding to a petition filed by activist Okiya Omtatah. Omtatah wants the court to compel Nkatha, Kurgat and Mwachanya to make their resignations formal. Chebukati said the three have not written to President Uhuru Kenyatta or the commission about their resignation. No recruitment can start if the three have not formally resigned. Chebukati said the commissioners are yet to resign and that they have “unlawfully absconded their duties”. Nkatha, Kurgat and Mwachanya publicly announced their resignation on April 16. “Since their resignation, the three have never reported to their respective offices nor confirmed their resignation through letters to the President,” Chebukati said. He asked the commissioners to complete their resignation and stop using public resources. “They are under lawful obligation to return forthwith all property belonging to the commission,” Chebukati said. According to the IEBC Act, the office of a commissioner shall become vacant if the holder resigns by notice in writing addressed to the President. Chebukati said the commission, on April 20, wrote to the three commissioners asking them to notify the President about their resignations. Read: Resign, admit challenges to prevent crisis, NASA MPs tell Chebukati Click here for the latest political news