Uasu and Kusu have dismissed KU's call for workers to resume duty on Monday, saying management is using propaganda to end a strike that has lasted 65 days. The Universities Academic Staff Union and Kenya Universities Staff Union announced a national strike after the government failed to table a counteroffer to the 2017/21 CBA and hold talks. In a statement on Friday, the two noted that "the strike is on and there shall be no lectures on May 7". In his recall notice, KU Vice Chancellor Paul Wainaina said some instructors had agreed to teach and that they had signed documents stating their positions. But Uasu and Kusu said Kenyatta University "took to the media to lie to students" about a meeting by management. "The unions wish to categorically state that since the strike began, there has never been any meeting between Kenyatta University and union leaders." The statement was signed by Uasu's KU chapter Secreatry George Lukoye and Kusu's KU branch Secretary Isaac Lokeris. The officials accused the university of militarising it by having "lorry loads of police officers". "The university is courting trouble akin to what happened in Meru University where a harmless student was killed by police officers on campus," the statement read. Uasu and Kusu further said KU is taking its students for a ride so it should be held responsible for whatever happens to them as a result of the recall before the CBA matter is settled. Lukoye and Lokeris asked the learners to maintain calm and stay away until the strike is called off officially. This announcement, they noted, can only be by Uasu Secretary General Constantine Wesonga and Kusu's Charles Mukhwaya. Lecturers went on strike on March 1 over that collective bargaining agreement. On April 6, the Labour Relations and Employment Court issued an order requiring them to return to work. Uasu immediately appealed the decision and continued with the strike. The tutors are pushing the government, through the Inter-Public Universities Academic Staff Union, to table a counteroffer to their Sh38 billion. On April 20, Education CS Amina Mohammed formed an inter-ministerial committee to come up with a counteroffer for the dons within a month. University of Nairobi has suspended those on strike while Technical University of Kenya recalled its students on April 30. More on this: UoN suspends striking lecturers, subordinate staff Also read: Which way forward? Plight of varsity students as lecturers' strike bites Click here for the latest political news