Embu farmers will be in a committee formed to implement recommendations to solve miraa marketing problems. The government has appointed representatives from Embu county in the committee. It was formed to implement recommendations of a task force put together by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2016 to look into miraa farmers’ problems. The appointees include Embu Agriculture executive Ann Nyaga, cooperative commissioner David Kariuki and the Embu Miraa Farmers union chairman Jerevasius Nyombyekothe. They will sit in the Miraa National Task force Implementation Committee which will deliberate on how to use the Sh1.2 billion set aside by the national government to end miraaa farmers’ woes. Nyaga spoke to the press in her office. She was with the new members when she said it would be helpful to have Embu farmers’ representatives in the committee. They had been left out in the initial appointments. The committee will look into increasing miraa production, irrigation, research and markets. Nyaga said the committee will also look into training miraa farmers on technology, mitigating against their social and economic problems and helping farmers in post-harvest management. The Mbeere and Embu Miraa (Mberembu) union chairman Nyombyekothe led farmers in protesting against the non-representation in the committee. On March 29, farmers threatened to ignore the committee’s recommendations if they were not represented. The miraa farmers said they would seek a court order to block the committee. Mberembu union’s Nyombyekothe and Mbeere Muguka Sacco chairman Josphat Njue said the farmers have been locked out of discussions on the crop. Nyombyekothe said the miraa farmers are more than 70,000 and greatly contribute to thecountry’s GDP. WANT REPRESENTATION Speaking at the scouts centre in Embu town, Nyombyekothe, union treasurer Pius Njiru, secretary Silus Ngeranwa and Mbeere Muguka sacco’s Njue said miraa farmers should not be ignored in decision making. They further said after the task force went round the country seeking input from farmers, those in Embu were not consulted. The farmers said they were being discriminated, citing projects elsewhere within the miraa belt. The farmers wanted the court to ensure they are represented in the implementation committee so they benefit. Nyombyekothe said half of the members of the previous committee were government officials. Lack of water for irrigation, drop in miraa prices and insecurity are some of the problems they face. Njiru said the farmers have a right to benefit from government interventions. “We will do whatever it takes for us to get those benefits,” he said.