At least 20 NYS suspects linked to the Sh9 billion NYS scam will be arraigned on Tuesday, DPP Noordin Haji has said. They include NYS Director General Richard Ndubai and Public Service PS Lilian Omollo who surrendered herself to detectives on Monday morning. Noordin said 40 public servants, 14 directors and proprietors of business entities and 10 companies who colluded to defraud the agency are lined up for prosecution. Read: List of suspects arrested over Sh9bn NYS scandal “The public servants will be charged with offences including conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption, willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to the management of public funds, breach of trust, willful neglect to perform official duty, abuse of office, fraudulent abuse of public property and payment from public revenue for goods not supplied,” he said. Read: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal He said based on the preliminary investigations, he has a strong case against the suspects who include ten companies. “I urge any person with information that may assist in the prosecution of the above to volunteer the same to my office. The information will be treated with utmost confidentiality,” Haji said during a press briefing in his office on Monday. Haji called on suspects that are yet to be arrested to surrender themselves to the DCI or the nearest police station. The DPP said phase one of investigations contained in ten files he received on Sunday from the DCI indicated that there was no procurement that was undertaken before the money was paid out. Related: NYS swoop: Youth Affairs PS Lillian Mbogo-Omollo surrenders to police He said the DCI will focus his investigations to other entities that benefited from the money in phase II of the investigations. He said the probe will be extended to banks that acted as conduits in the transfer of the stolen funds. "There is also the issue of doing indepth analysis and we are going to bring on board more experts to help as with forensic analysis of NYS and the payments that were made. “In the meantime, several bank accounts that the funds were channelled to have been frozen,” Haji said. He said his office is working with the Assets Recovery Agency and the DCI to recover the lost funds. He said he will appoint four prosecutors to work with his office in handling the cases. Read: NYS arrests next week as Kinoti reviews evidence More: NYS Scandal: PS Lillian Omollo, NYS Director Richard Ndubai step aside Click here for the latest political news