President Donald Trump is on one and only one mission, which is to use whatever time he has left in office to undo as much of Barack Obama legacy accomplishments as possible. To be sure, he tried to undo Obama’s biggest accomplishment: The Obamacare. The former President managed to have the law changed to provide universal healthcare for all Americans, something all Democratic Party presidents before him tried but all failed. Republican presidents did not even try. Trump has now gone after the multi-nation Iran nuclear deal Obama spearheaded and had it signed by all the major powers in the world, including his country, the UK, Russia and China.Trump initially did so by trashing the deal and then, despite warnings to the contrary, withdrew the US from the deal on Wednesday. In the words of the architect of the deal itself, Trump’s action is a serious mistake for many reasons, including the fact that “consistent flouting of agreements [the US] is a party to risks eroding America’s credibility, and puts it at odds with the world’s major powers.” It could ultimately lead to another war in the Middle East. This is the prevailing view of not only the majority of Americans but also virtually all major world leaders, save for leaders in Israel and Sunni-led countries. This dogged determination by a president to undo the legacy of a predecessor is so personal and unprecedented that it reeks of nothing but racism. The irony is that while Obama transformed the US, first by becoming the country’s first Black president, among other things, Trump is already destroying all that, at least as far as measuring the country’s tolerance for the tawdry, dishonesty and vapid incompetence is concerned. For example, when it comes to Trump’s lying, the venerable New York Times diplomatically puts it this way: “While most presidents lie at times, Mr. Trump’s speeches and Twitter posts are embedded with so many false, distorted, misleading or unsubstantiated claims that he has tested even the normally low standards of American politics.” Former US Senator Patrick Moynahim coined the expression in 1993 “Defining Deviancy Down” or DDD. This is to say there’s a limit to the bad behaviour society can tolerate before it is to start lowering its standards. This usually takes a generation or a number of years but Trump is breaking records, judging how — in less than two years — he continues to behave in all manners not becoming of a President as if none of these matters. In Kenya, we have seen a steady progression of our own DDD, where certain politicians behave in all manner of uncouth and backward behaviour with impunity and, to make matters worse, have a gullible audience quite willing to cheer them on. Thank God that has tapered off, especially following the March 9 handshake. However, the undercurrents are there for deep-seated dislike and hatred of one another among Kenyans for no reason other than the tribe one belongs to, which is a shame. It’s a shame that someone needs to strongly shame those who are not ashamed of continuing to wallow in backwardness and jolt them to the 21st century Kenya where that backwardness ought to have been a thing of the past. That person is Uhuru Kenyatta, who must take the lead in helping these hapless types to shake the backwardness. And what a better way to do so than having Raila Odinga on his side as the two pull together their respective sides toward forming a better country, where neither tribalism nor poverty shall define our destiny.  