Heavy rains and floods have heightened cholera and chikungunya outbreaks across Kenya, the UN says in its report. Since January, 2,943 cholera cases have been reported in 15 counties and 55 deaths recorded, it said. The update, ‘Floods in Kenya’, covered up to the end of last month. It was released on Thursday last week. The counties include Mombasa, Garissa, Siaya, Tharaka Nithi, Meru, Kirinyaga, Busia, Tana River, Turkana, Murang’a, Trans Nzoia, West Pokot, Nairobi and Nakuru. Five counties still have active cholera transmissions. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs says the ongoing downpour and flooding increase health risks. Effluent from submerged pit latrines overflow, it says in its report. The UNOCHA adds that humanitarian efforts are ongoing. It says Unicef provided 16,666 jerrycans, 224,000 aqua tabs, 15,859 pieces of soap and 5,000 buckets to the worst-hit counties. Unicef has also provided supplies for cholera management. They include 10 interagency health kits and 452 long-lasting insecticidal nets. The Kenya Red Cross Society has also sent water treatment chemicals to Tana River victims. It has provided 32,000 aqua tabs and 30,000 purification tablets for families in Kilifi county. Also Read:Four die of Cholera as 32 chikungunya fever cases confirmed in Mombasa “In Marsabit, Kajiado and Homa Bay counties the government has airlifted food to reach families in inaccessible areas,” the document states. The heavy rains and floods have left 80 people dead and more than 244,400 others displaced. The highest displaced populations have been reported in Tana River, Turkana, Mandera and Kilifi. In Nandi, 243 households were displaced by mudslides. The UN report indicates the floods have damaged infrastructure, limited humanitarian access to many areas and cut off access to markets. “In Wajir, Isiolo, Mandera, Marsabit, Tana River and Garissa counties, transportation of humanitarian supplies has been hampered due to roads being cut off,” it says. “In Northeastern, access to the most vulnerable communities in rural areas continues to be a challenge due to impassable roads.” The flash update, citing Kenya Red Cross figures, says extensive damages and losses have been reported to livestock and agricultural fields — at least 21,741 acres of farmland destroyed and about 19,223 livestock killed. Read:46 admitted after Cholera outbreak in Gatanga, Murang'a Click here for the latest political news