The government will this month buy one million bags of fertiliser at Sh1.8 billion. Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Andrew Tuimur said they want farmers to get the fertiliser in time for top dressing. National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) communication officer Titus Maiyo said they have 260,000 bags of fertiliser for top dressing. The NCPB is selling the fertiliser at Sh1,500. Some farmers in Western and Rift Valley said they have not received the fertiliser. Last month, the ministry requested for funds to buy more fertiliser. The request was made in a supplementary budget. Tuimur cautioned farmers against applying fertiliser when it is raining to avoid wash-off. He also warned that heavy rains might affect crops. Rains are helpful in controlling armyworm infestation because it suppresses the pests. Read:Relief for farmers as government subsidises fertiliser prices “If the heavy rains continue, they may cause falling of the crops and may also hinder the uptake of nutrients,” Tuimur said on Friday. The distribution of fertliser has been marred with corruption. Uscrupulous traders have been blamed for taking advantage of the government subsidy where they buy the fertiliser in bulk before selling to farmers at higher prices. Deputy President William Ruto has since directed the registration of all farmers before the next harvesting season. Two weeks ago, Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri said they had arrested 12 people for diverting subsidised fertliser. The fertiliser was then repackaged and sold to farmers. Also See:Kiunjuri puts NCPB staff on notice over sale of subsidised fertiliser Tuimur however cautioned farmers against applying fertiliser when it is raining to avoid wash-off. He also noted that while the ongoings rains may be good in controlling infestation of the fall armyworm through suppressing the pest, it may affect crops. “If the heavy rains continue, they may cause falling of the crops and may also hinder the uptake of nutrients,” he said on Friday. The country has been experiencing heavy rains since May when the long rains season started and it has caused havoc, killing at least 76 people due to flooding. According to the Kenya Red Cross, about 242,536 have been displaced by floods, property destroyed and several roads have been cut-off. This comes even as the weather man announced that there is likely to be more flooding in Rift Valley, Lake Victoria regions and Tana River, Garissa, Isiolo, Marsabit, Wajir and Mandera Counties. Read:Use fertiliser, farmers urged as state slashes price by 16% Click here for the latest political news     