Kenya Power has lately been in the news for inflated bills, poor customer service, blackouts and even boardroom wars. The company which is a monopoly in the sale of electricity to domestic and industrial consumers has been struggling to shake off a bad name as it strives to provide uninterrupted service to millions. In an interview with the Star, Managing Director Ken Tarus, dwelt on bills saying consumers now have an efficient means of payment and that vendors will soon be done away with. Q: What is Kenya Power doing to achieve 100 per cent meter reading in the country, rather than billing on estimates? A: I look forward to the day consumers are totally in charge of their bill. The company recently launched a mobile app anchored on the Integrated Customer Service System, which allows meter readers to key in readings from site and send data to the office for generation of bills. This will help reduce the turnaround time for generation of bills. Q: Kenya Power has 15 agents to help in revenue collection, but you also called on customers to pay bills at the KPLC offices stating that it is cheaper. When are you going to do away with these agents? A: These vendors were contracted to help customers access services when our offices are not open. They control 35 per cent of revenues, and they ensure customers access some services while reducing cost of doing business. But now mobile phone companies will control up to 95 per cent of revenues, eventually eliminating agents. Most transactions regarding payment of electricity bills and purchase of tokens take place on Kenya Power platforms such as the 888880 and 888888 paybill numbers. This trend is expected to go on especially with IT upgrade to fast track the payment process and generation of tokens. Q: Have the prepaid tokens made the way business is done any easier for the company? How? A: Yes. One of the advantages of the prepaid metering system is that it eliminates the challenge of bill estimation that over the years has been associated with postpaid services. It also addresses the issue of unpaid bills as customers pay ahead of consumption. Q: There is a general public perception that KPLC has less than wonderful customer service, with delays in fixing customer issues, rude tellers and even conmen purporting to be your staff have all left the public disgruntled with your customer service. How will you work to fix this? How long will it take? A: The company welcomes feedback as one of the ways of improving service delivery. We encourage aggrieved customers to immediately report their concerns through channels such as email, social media platforms, telephone call etc for quick resolution. I can assure you that we will respond because the company does not tolerate any form of rudeness, corruption or ill-treatment of customers. We embrace the right internal and customer facing strategies, processes and initiatives to improve customer satisfaction in a progressively dynamic market. Q: Do you regret being at the helm of Kenya Power? What are your achievements so far? A: It has been a fulfilling experience for me, and I do not regret the chance to lead one of the top 10 companies to work for. More important, I have introduced a refinancing model with the World Bank for the company’s loans, negotiated for cost-effective credit for capital projects and am happy that the customer base has grown by ensuring connectivity projects are implemented as planned. Q: Have you had tough moments? What is the most challenging experience for you and how did you handle them? A: There are days when things have been less than rosy. One was when there was a national power blackout in January after the national grid and generating system tripped at our Ndenderu sub station. For a moment, I felt like the world had come to an end! However, our team of engineers worked tirelessly to fix the situation, restoring supply to consumers. Q: What if the national blackout happens again? It had happened several times before! A:  We conduct continual assessment of our lines and sub stations to ensure no outages get us unaware. I look forward to the day when the customer does not have to await such occurrence because the systems are working to their optimum.