Chief Justice David Maraga has heeded the an invitation of a 90-year-old woman in Nandi county to come and construct a church for her. He took part in a fundraiser over the weekend to help make her wish come true. Grace Bor, a Seventh Day Adventist adherent from Sigot village, had perhaps heard of the CJ's passion and love for God. She had hoped that one day, God could create an opportunity for her to come face to face with Maraga, who is also an Adventist. It was an early Sabbath Day of February 5, and Mama Grace, as she’s commonly referred to, had been taken to Nairobi by her son for routine medical check-ups. She had not attended church service for close to six months due to age-related health problems. On that morning, her son Edward Biwott, a senior manager with one of the local commercial banks, was taking her for Sabbath prayers at the Shauri Moyo SDA church in Nairobi. Mama Grace requested that they pray before setting off. Her wish was to find someone to construct a church at her rural home. As the service continued, the presiding priest informed the congregation that the CJ was with them. “Our mother was astonished at the presence of such a powerful figure at the service and resolved to book an appointment with him,” Biwott said. It was not long before the appointment was realised, as those checking on her at her son's house in Nairobi included high profile members of the society. One of them was former SRC chair Sarah Serem, who Mama Grace admires for constructing an SDA church at her rural home next to Eldoret International Airport. Mama Grace had only one request for Serem: to fix an appointment with Justice Maraga. Reason? For him to help construct and dedicate a church in Sigot village. Sigot has one of the highest concentrations of SDA followers in Nandi county. Her son Biwott soon received a call to take his mother to the Supreme Court to meet Maraga. And on Saturday, true to Mama Grace's dream, the president of the Supreme Court was at hand to preside over the drive for the construction of the church. Maraga said despite the ceilings in the constitution that do not allow public servants like him to preside over such functions, he had to break it for the sake of Mama Grace. “What I’m bringing here is purely my offering from my salary, because after all is over, each of us will appear before God during the rapture,” he said. The CJ said he does not shy away from confessing that he is an Adventist, and that is why he has been lifted to the highest position in the judiciary. He asked judges and magistrates to discharge their duties without undue influence from any quarter, as God is watching everything the do. “Let's all start shaking hands with our adversaries and in the heart of forgiveness, we shall overcome all the hardship. See how our country is like after the handshake by President Uhuru and Raila Odinga,” Maraga said. “It's all we want and let's continue forgiving one another and forge ahead, and I assure what you thought was impossible will be possible.” Present were Nandi Governor Stephen Sang, Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei, and High Court judges Luke Kimaru, Fred Sergon, Francis Tuiyot and Jedge Kemei. 