The ongoing heavy rains have driven up the prices of some food stuffs increasing the cost of living among Kenyans. The price of tomatoes has gone up from Sh5 for one tomato to Sh10-Sh15 or Sh25 to Sh50 for three tomatoes for the last two months when the long rains began. According to the ministry of agriculture commodity prices, a box of 64 kgs of tomatoes is currently retailing at between Sh6,500 to a high of Sh8,500 in major towns. The price has shot up by about Sh1,000 from February when the same box of tomatoes was selling at between Sh5,200 to Sh2,500. This is while tomatoes are rotting away in farms in Nyandarua due to poor roads occasioned by the rains. The prices of potatoes have also gone up from between Sh1,500 and Sh2,500 for a 50kg bag in February to Sh1,800 to Sh3000 this month. However, the price of vegetables such as kales has gone down from an average of Sh1,200 to Sh700 Agriculture cabinet administrative secretary Andrew Tuimur yesterday said that the government is in consultation with KEPSA to seek ways on how the private sector can help address the challenge of post harvest loss. “We lose 30 to 40 per cent of some of our produce due to post harvest losses. The story of farmers wasting away their produce in Laikipia and Nyandarua Counties due to the heavy rains is a clear indication that just as we have taken measures to mitigate drought, so should we be prepared for the heavy rains,” he said. Tuimur urged investors to put up cold storages to preserve commodities such as potatoes and tomatoes and do value addition. “It is unfortunate that we have to import tomato paste which is expensive yet we have tomatoes being thrown away instead of being processed to paste. The government will play its role in creating an enabling environment for investors and giving incentives such as minimum taxation and lowering the cost of energy to bring down the cost of production. We have asked Kepsa to tell us what they would need for manufactures to come in,” said Tuimur. But it is not all bad news for Kenyans the prices of other basic commodities such as maize flour has gone down. A two-kg packet of maize flour is currently selling at between Sh90 to Sh100 in local supermarkets. Tuimur attributed this to a flour in maize supply in the country coming from farmers and neighboring countries of Uganda and Tanzania. East Africa Grain Council CEO Gerald Masila also confirmed that there is a lot of maize in the country and prices are competitive. Maize prices are currently going at between Sh2,900 to ShSh2,500 up from Sh3,600 in February hence the low price of unga that consumers are currently enjoying. 