There are various types of dams: Earth-fill dams like Ellegrin dam, rock-fill dams like Masinga, concrete gravity dams such as Kimao and arch dams such as Turkwel. Before selecting a dam site, many factors must be considered: accessibility, topography, geology of the foundation, river hydrology, size of catchment area, degree of environmental conservation and volume of sediment loads. Th ese determine the dam’s economic lifespan. There might be a spillway if it’s an open channel or side channel O gee spillway with an outfl ow section. The spillway is the lifeline and should safely evacuate excess fl ows to avoid over-topping the dam’s crest. To enhance of dams and downstream areas, present designs are done using Q = 10,000. Dams differ from other civil engineering structures because of the high investment and expertise required. Irrigation dams should have the irrigation areas clearly mapped and proper drainage systems factored. There must be topographical survey of the downstream valley areas to be affected, including utilities, roads, culverts, transport lines, and structures. Dam failure is caused by under- designed spillways where the flood flows are under-estimated resulting in over-topping the dam crest, poor construction methods resulting in fill materials not being properly compacted. Other causes and contributing factors are poor drainage systems, under-designed filters and drainage blankets putting increased pressure on the embankment wall. To ensure there are no breaks, there is need for proper construction practices, good quality control, proper equipment during construction and carrying out in-situ tests. A flood Memorandum-Disaster Mitigation Plan should be prepared. It should capture the list of properties likely to be affected, along with photographs. It should include their estimated cost and estimated cost for relocations of houses, if any, which may be affected in the event of extreme floods. It should also have a plan for a Flood Warning System and Disaster Management-Emergency Action Plan. Technical information is extensive. There is the a Manual for Design of Dams in Kenya 1992 and the Revised Edition of 2015. However, dam designers also borrow heavily from other sources like ICOLD publications, USBR 1987, Japanese Standards, Std. 13 and others. The Director of Water Infrastructure Development, Ministry of Water & Irrigation spoke to the Star.