Following the prolonged drought experienced
in 2017, the heavy rains currently being experienced are a welcome blessing. However,
the rains have come with their fair share of challenges. From the loss of life
in many parts of the country to destruction of property, the rains have
arguably brought to light areas for improvement in terms of water management.
This is particularly evident in our cities, which over the past few months have
faced acute drainage challenges making roads impassable. However, rather than spell doom and gloom,
this poses numerous opportunities to improve and build on the existing water
management infrastructure. Provided we view the current onset of rain as an
opportunity for progress and development, and come up with innovative and
sustainable water management solutions, future generations will be better
placed to handle water crisis incidences. This is particularly key given the
heightened climate change debate. It is expected that the effects of climate
change will result in increased incidences of natural disasters in the
foreseeable future, including acute droughts on the one hand, and devastating
floods on the other. This calls upon us to ensure that our water management
infrastructure is up to task, and that we are adequately protected from water
risks and vulnerabilities. In light of the above, it is imperative
that water management policy is sustainable, efficient and equitable –
holistically capturing both the upstream and downstream segments of water management.
On the one hand, we have to ensure that available water resources are
efficiently utilised and equitably distributed. This requires innovative and
dynamic solutions in terms of water usage and distribution. Given proper end to
end water management, incidences of water rationing will indeed become history. On the urban front, inadequate drainage
infrastructure should be of paramount concern – with ageing and dilapidated
drainage systems being the order of the day, resulting in inefficient water
collection and storage. Aside from posing risks to key infrastructure, this
also poses significant health risks, with incidences of water borne diseases
being on the rise. This is further compounded by the rapid population growth
being experienced in urban areas, with a majority of the urban population
living in unsanitary conditions, thereby increasing the risk of spread of
diseases. This is all too familiar given the recent outbreaks of cholera in
both Nairobi and Mombasa. While renovating drainage infrastructure
may be an expensive venture, it remains a do-able task. One only needs to look
at the strides made by countries such as Japan and Singapore for guidance,
whereby water management was successfully incorporated and addressed in the
city design and development. Indeed, urban areas can contribute immensely to
water resources management, ecosystems and biodiversity conservation through
their design and the infrastructures they rely on such as smart water systems
and green roofs. THE WRITER IS MANAGING DIRECTOR, IDB BANK