More than 25 underage girls were sexually abused by their fathers in Lamu in five months, a report by World Vision shows. A representative from the education and child protection office, Sheikh Maro, said the girls were sexually abused between January and May. The official said a rise in domestic violence has resulted in fathers turning on their daughters after their mothers flee. This has greatly affected the girls’ education, Maro said in Lamu yesterday. Sexual abuse cases are rife in Hindi, Bargoni, Kauthara, Ndeu, Sabasaba and Roka Kibiboni in Lamu West and East subcounties. “We think there are many more cases that have not been reported. There is a lot of shame and stigma associated with fathers defiling their daughters. In some cases mothers cover up,” Maro said. He appealed to stakeholders to step up and fight the vice. Maro wants the culprits brought to book. Residents have blamed relevant government institutions for laxity in dealing with the cases reported to them. Kenya police reservist Joseph Njenga complained that so many cases in which fathers are arrested end prematurely. The suspects are either released by police or given bond by the courts. Njenga also said defilement cases take too long in the courts. This discourages people from reporting sex predators. “I arrested a man who was having sexual relations with his daughter in Hindi. I took him to Hindi police station, but as we speak, he is back home. He continues defiling the girl. The police and courts are failing us. Most times cases are thrown out on grounds of lack of sufficient evidence. That’s so disappointing,” he said. Residents also cited drunkenness as a key factor in the rise of defilement cases of daughters by their fathers. They have appealed to the government to draft laws that will strictly regulate local brews. “Wives get tired of their drunk husbands and run away from them. They leave their vulnerable daughters behind. In drunken stupors, some fathers  defile their daughters and pretend as if they do not  know what happened,” resident Karanja Munga said. “It’s a sad situation. If mothers must leave, they should go with their daughters.” Click here for the latest political news