The government has been challenged to urgently address the rise in case of counterfeits liquor in the country as it was killing the local industries. According to Keroche Breweries, the counterfeits accounted for forty percent of liquor in the market with the figures rising by the day. The Naivasha based brewery noted that the country was losing millions of shillings through uncollected tax due to the influx of the cheap liquor. The company MD Sam Shollei termed the industry as very sensitive noting that the counterfeits were responsible for the deaths in the country. He urged KRA to introduce stringent measures and fines to anyone found selling or producing the illicit brews in the country. “We estimate that forty percent of spirits in the country’s market are counterfeit and its time that necessary government agencies acted on this,” he said. Shollei noted that investigations by the brewery had established that the content in the counterfeits was lethal and did not meet the set standards. “We have seen that the illicit brews are finding their way into the country through Tanzania and KRA and KEBs should act on this,” he said. He noted that the unscrupulous traders were targeting fast moving products from various companies and repackaging them before offering them to the market. “In Keroche the unscrupulous traders have targeted Vienna Ice and we are keen to address this through the support of the necessary government bodies,” he said. Shollei was addressing the press in his office in Naivasha ahead of a visit by KRA officials to showcase how the excise duty stamp-application system works. He was full of praise for the automated system noting that it had curbed any tax-evasion and had seen excise duty collected from liquor rise. “We are fully in support of the new automated system by KRA and this should be spread to all other factories to curb the issue of tax evasion which is real,” he said. Shollei at the same time expressed his concern over the reemergence of spirits packaged in plastic bottles despite the government ban a couple of years back. “It’s time the police and NACADA moved in and arrested those behind the sale of spirits in plastic bottles as this is illegal and it’s been used by unscrupulous traders to package counterfeits,” he said. During the tour, Shollei said that the brewery was in the process of introducing new products and expanding their market as the demand for their products continued to rise.   