The first batch of 15 Harambee Stars players jetted out yesterday for the Hero Intercontinental Cup set for June 1-10 at the Mumbai Football Arena, India without Gor and AFC Leopards players. Head coach Sebastien Migne also failed to leave with the first group due to a visa hitch. In Migne’s absence, the first group 15 players, were led by assistant coach Francis Kimanzi, who doubles up as Mathare United tactician. The team is expected to be joined by the six players called up to replace those who were recalled by their clubs. According to the federation’s communications officer Barry Otieno, the French born Migne had to wait for an extra 24 hours to have his travelling documents processed. “The coach did not travel with the first batch of players due to a visa hitch. The Indian immigration department had an issue in admitting a French national in their country but we hope to get a solution so that he can jet out with the six players today.” Prior to the departure, Migne summoned six players new players to replace those who had been recalled by Gor and Leopards in preparation for the forthcoming SportPesa Super Cup. Migne included the Zambia-based duo of Clifton Miheso and John Makwata who ply their trade with Buildcon FC as he sought to beef up his striking front which struggled for goals in the recently concluded friendlies against Swaziland and Equatorial Guinea. Thika United skipper Dennis Odhiambo returned to the team alongside Kariobangi Sharks’ centre half Bolton Omwenga and Vihiga United’s captain Bernard Ochieng. Tusker’s fast-rising goalkeeper Byrne Omondi was handed his first call. However, the rookie custodian may not travel as he is set to be handed his maiden competitive match start this season against Taita Taveta All Stars in the SportPesa Shield round of 64 this Saturday. Gor and Leopards will have their players for the forthcoming Super Cup, where both teams will be eying to grab the chance to face English side Everton shortly after the World Cup. K’ogalo withdrew six players; Harun Shakava, Joash Onyango, Humprey Mieno, Francis Kahata, Phillemon Otieno and Boniface Oluoch from the Stars camp while Leopards recalled the trio of Marvin Nabwire, Wyvonne Isuza and Jaffari Odenyi. However, the duo of Duncan Otieno and Michael Kibwage travelled with the team. Kenya take on New Zealand on June 2 before facing host India two days later. Harambee Stars third match will pit them against Chinese Taipei on June 8. The top two teams will face off in the final, slated for June 10. Full Squad Goalkeepers: Timothy Odhiambo (Ulinzi Stars), Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers), Byrne Omondi (Tusker); Defenders: Jockins Atudo (Posta Rangers), Musa Mohammed (unattached), Michael Kibwage (AFC Leopards), Bernard Ochieng (Vihiga United), Dennis Odhiambo (Thika United), Johnstone Omurwa (Mathare United), Bolton Omwenga (Kariobangi Sharks), Erick Ouma (KF Tirana); Midfielders: Kenneth Muguna (KF Tirana), Vincent Wasambo (Kariobangi Sharks), Patillah Omotto (Kariobangi Sharks), Chrispin Oduor (Mathare United), Clifton Miheso (Buildcon FC), Duncan Otieno (Leopards): Attackers: Ovella Ochieng (Kariobangi Sharks), Timothy Otieno (Tusker FC), John Makwatta (Buildcon), Pistone Mutamba (Wazito).