EALA legislator Simon Mbugua and four other people were yesterday questioned over the attack on former NCBDA chairman Timothy Muriuki. Mbugua was picked up from a Nairobi hotel by officers from the Flying Squad yesterday afternoon. He was driven to Central police station where he was required to give details of the people who were filmed attacking Muriuki at the Boulevard Hotel on April 30. Nairobi DCI chief Ireri Kamwende said Mbugua needed to give information about the suspects as he was known to the men. Four of the five attackers were later arrested separately A press conference by the Nairobi Central Business District Association ended in disarray after a group of heavily built men stormed the venue and roughed up Muriuki. [VIDEO] CBD association ex-chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' The former official had called the press briefing to speak on the problems faced by business people.  He wanted to give his stand on the state of Nairobi, which has been beset by many challenges including uncollected garbage and floods. The attackers, however, claimed he was a conman hired to tarnish Governor Mike Sonko’s name.  They tore his statement into pieces. Muriuki said the people who pounced on him will not go scot-free. He said no amount of intimidation would stop him from seeking justice against the men who assaulted him. Forcibly ejected Police have since released photos of the five men who attacked Muriuki and placed a Sh2.5 million bounty on them. Journalists who had come to cover the presser filmed as the men  grabbed  Muriuki and forcibly ejected him from the hotel. Muriuki pleaded with the attackers to leave him alone, but the suspects continued roughing him up. He said they were hired to scuttle the presser. At one point the men could be heard arguing among themselves whether to throw Muriuki into the hotel swimming pool. They only stopped when they were confronted by journalists. After he was kicked out of Boulevard Hotel, some men at the gate of the hotel formed a circle round him and started shoving and beating him. The former NCBDA boss fled to the Norfolk Towers where he stayed for hours. One attacker pulled off his jacket.  It has since emerged that one of the suspects was recently released from jail. Read: Police offer Sh2.5m for arrest of men who attacked NCBDA ex-boss sonko defends mbugua The Nairobi county assembly once claimed Mbugua was running the show at City Hall. Ward representatives accused  the East Africa Legislative Assembly MP of meddling in county affairs. Some MCAs asked Governor Sonko to clarify Mbugua’s role.  However, the governor defended him, saying he does not intefere with the administration.  Sonko blamed corruption cartels for spreading propaganda about Mbugua. “Some cartels have started fighting back after I sealed all corruption loopholes at City Hall. “The few individuals who want to interfere with my leadership have approached some MCAs and   are using them for their ill-motives,” Sonko said. Read: I'll not negotiate in pursuit for justice, assaulted CBD boss tells Sonko Click here for the latest political news 