When earlier this month US President Donald Trump withdrew America from the 2013 Iran nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions, it sent ripples across the world beyond Iran’s borders. Trump on May 8 defied Western pleas to stay in the deal and gave a six-month window for firms trading in America to stop doing business with Iran. Crude prices rose to a three-and-a-half year high to stand at $80 per barrel, the highest level since November 2014. The prices rose amid concerns the sanctions would cut global supply by 200,000-1.5 million barrels per day. Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was a leading critic of the deal, arguing it did not contain sufficient safeguards to prevent Iran, his country’s main enemy, from reaching nuclear-weapons capability. “Israel fully supports President Trump’s bold decision to reject the disastrous nuclear deal with the terrorist regime in Tehran,” he said. Israel then said it had destroyed nearly all of Iran’s military infrastructure in Syria after Iranian forces reportedly fired rockets at Israeli-held territory for the first time. And while this is happening miles away, Kenya will likely be affected by the fluctuation in oil prices and likely lose out on tea exports. IMPACT ON TEA Of the 120 million kilos Iran imports annually, Kenya supplies about 20 million kilos. These exports are likely be hit by the sanctions after the six-month window closes. A local daily reported that some Sh120 million owed to local traders is stuck in the country and the situation may worsen. Major Gen (Rtd) Charles Mwanzia, an international relations scholar, says Iran will maintain cordial and close relations with African states, including Kenya. He, however, says Kenyan traders, especially tea exporters, have had problems getting their payments remitted to Kenya. Former Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed acknowledged this fact in 2014, during her visit to Tehran. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif blamed the delays on the punitive economic sanctions imposed on the country by the international community. Even after the lifting of the sanctions after the signing of the Iran deal in 2013, Kenyan banks were still reluctant to have anything to do with Iranian lenders. Buyers in Iran had advised Kenyan traders to open bank accounts in either Europe or the United Arab Emirates so they can be paid through these countries. Agriculture and Food Authority director general Alfred Busolo told the Daily Nation the move will hit traders who export tea to the country. They will experience difficulties getting payments as no bank will be willing to transact business with Iran. “We may not be able to export tea to that market because of the sanctions. However, we are watching the market with caution,” he said. However, Iranian Ambassador Dr Hadi Farajvand denies the trade in tea will be affected, arguing the sales remained stable even before the US lifted sanctions after the Iran deal. He says there are initiatives to market Kenyan tea in Tehran to enhance sales. An official at the State Department of International Trade said the initiatives are there, but the problem remains in the payment model. IMPACT ON OIL Changes in international oil prices will obviously affect Kenya, a cost that is passed over to consumers. Gen Mwanzia says: “US withdrawal from the Iran deal leaves other major powers without a capable and willing regulator of the deal. OPEC [Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries] officials expect destabilisation of oil prizes, which could result in increased oil and gas prices for Africa and Kenya.” The Financial Times indicated on May 16 that Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, rose to $77.20 in early trading in London, while WTI, the US benchmark, jumped by a similar amount to $70.93. Experts say one major implication would be that the sanctions could put approximately one million barrels of crude per day in the oil market at risk “in a market that is largely balanced and inventories are now low”. US allies such as Japan and South Korea may lower their purchases in reaction to the sanctions, and the impact will depend on whether Saudi Arabia and Russia will produce more to fill the gap. Currently, about 2.6 million barrels of oil are produced and exported from Iran. On May 16, French energy giant Total announced it was preparing to pull out of a $1bn gas deal with Iran — signed last year to develop phase 11 of Iran’s South Pars gas field — after the renewed US sanctions. It said it will unwind operations in November, unless the sanctions are waived. Amb Farajvand, however, downplayed the move, saying, it does not mean that if Total withdraws, there are no other companies ready and willing to work with Iran. “We are not concerned a lot. The EU has taken some steps to protect their companies against imposed restrictions by the US. There are ongoing negotiations about these measures between Iran and the EU and between Iran and the individual states — Germany, Italy, France, the UK, China and also Russia,” Farajvand said. On how oil markets and prices will be affected, the envoy says that depends on a couple of issues, but warns if the supply is restricted to meet the demand, then the prices will obviously rise. “I, however, don’t think the effect by Trump is too strong to affect supply and demand in the international market. The US is not buying from us at all,” Farajvand says. He adds the consumers that buy Iranian oil include India, Korea, China and the EU, who will not put any restrictions. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS Andrew Franklin of Franklin Consultants says it is too soon to tell whether countries that maintain Iranian bilateral relations and business ties with Iran will have problems with the US and Israel. However, Franklin, a security analyst, thinks the developments are more inclined to international politics: “Israel and its new friend Saudi Arabia want to significantly diminish Iranian influence and activities in the Middle East. Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal for all the wrong reasons, if you focus on Iranian nuclear weapons development. I believe there are many neocons in America, who deliberately ignore the deceptions that led to regime change in Iraq — and to Al Qaeda, Syria, Tobruk, Yemen, Somalia and ISIL [The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant]. “I don’t think any effects will be felt for at least two years. Remember the 30 Zanzibar-flagged oil tankers ferrying Iranian oil to India back in 2012? The Israelis exposed that sanctions-busting enterprise.” In the case, Tanzania said a shipping agent based in Dubai had reflagged 36 Iranian oil tankers with the Tanzanian flag without the country’s knowledge and approval. Reflagging ships disguises ownership, making it easier for countries, for instance, Iran, to obtain insurance and financing for the cargoes, as well as find buyers for the shipments without attracting attention, despite sanctions. This was largely due to the initial US sanctions, which had kept Iran’s major trading partners from buying Iranian crude. “I have lots of thoughts on how Israel might be pushing us into war with Iran by putting Israel’s survival on the line; we’d launch against Iran if somehow Israel’s existence became dependent on its use of nuclear weapons,” the former American marine says. Gen Mwanzia also warns Africa should be careful about joining the international community in condemning the US withdrawal from the deal. “Trump will react in bad taste. What Israel orthodox Jews support is sanctions against Iran. Moderate Jews do not even support America’s shift of their embassy to Jerusalem. They support the Oslo accord, which established zones A,B and C for peace. Trump has scuttled long-time peace in the Middle East,” Mwanzia says. Amb Farajvand says the US is now sticking to unilateralism at the expense of multilateralism, in an attempt to be a hegemony. “The US wants to impose itself on other countries, undermining their sovereignty and the independence of international organisations such as the UN, which passed the resolution on the Iran deal through the UN Security Council,” he says.  Iranian Ambassador Dr Hadi Farajvand speaks to the Star at the Embassy on May 16. /ELIUD KIBII He says with such an attitude, there will be no confidence in the US by other nations in the international community. “Beyond further damaging the credibility of the United States on the world stage, the US withdrawal from the JCPOA has put into question the foundation of international relations in today’s world, the credibility of accords entered into with the US — whether bilaterally or multilaterally — and also put the present system of international law in serious danger,” a press release from Tehran on May 10 said. In conclusion, Farajvand says Iran will withdraw from the deal as well because they may not continue benefiting from the agreements in the deal. In this regard, President of the Atomic Energy Organisation of Iran has been tasked with taking all necessary steps in preparation for Iran to pursue industrial-scale enrichment “without any restrictions”, a move the envoys says is a direct reaction to the withdrawal. This fighting undoes the objectives of the Iran deal, and essentially puts international peace and security at stake. And Kenya being part of the system has to deal with the consequences as well.