Governor Mike Sonko could in a month send packing a majority of his executives amid public uproar over poor service delivery in the county. Officials close to the Governor and State House told the Star the executives have five-year contracts, which are audited after every six months to gauge their performance. At the moment, the appraisals are ongoing. “These guys (executives) are going home,” a top human resource officer, who did not want to be mentioned, told the Star yesterday on the phone. With a continued public uproar over poor roads in estates and in the city centre as well as poor garbage collection, lack of water and poor drainage system, Sonko intends to send home the executives to bring on board people he believes will deliver on his campaign manifesto. "If Nairobi residents continue complaining about lack of delivery and yet your work is to cater for their needs, I will not hesitate to send you home," Sonko said at City Hall on Friday, when he flagged off equipment for cleaning and unblocking drainages. The City boss also intends to reorganize operations at City Hall, and in the process bring in people he can easily instruct and assign. Out of the ten executives, six were seconded by State House, including former Deputy Governor Polycarp Igathe and incoming county secretary Peter Kariuki. Igathe resigned after he "failed to earn the trust of the governor to drive the administration and management of the county". As part of the changes, Sonko also intends to nominate former Kiambu Woman rep Ann Nyokabi — President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin — as his deputy to strengthen ties with State House, despite sacking executives they seconded. “I have been doing a lot since I came into office. We have made sure that we have all what is required to manage waste. However, waste management is a collective responsibility and I urge all Nairobians to help us keep the City clean,” Sonko said. Nairobi residents have in the recent past heavily protested against garbage, crowded hawkers on the streets, poor infrastructure and a generally poor service delivery at City Hall. Thousands of streets families have found their new home in the central business district with some finding their way to areas considered "uptown". Sonko believes a number of CeC have failed to meet their targets, which are contained in their contracts as illustrated in his manifesto during the 2017 campaigns. With the slogan 'Lets fix Nairobi', Sonko promised to expand the city health system, improve infrastructure, listen and learn, digitize service delivery and hold “The Nairobi We Want Convention.” Others promises included restructuring the county public service board, improve housing, rehabilitate Nairobi rivers and waterways, make use of garbage to generate electricity and create an integrated strategy on water. In a circular dated February 26, Sonko made drastic Cabinet changes four months after his government was sworn-in.