An assistant chief has
reconciled many warriors at the West Pokot-Turkana border by preaching the
gospel to help fight against banditry and cattle rustling. Joseph
Korkimul of Songok, North Pokot subcounty, has helped dozens of warriors reform and even
become pastors in the community. The reformed warriors are
now wooing other warriors still fighting to lay down their weapons. Fifteen
reformed warriors, who got saved three years ago, are spreading the word of God
to other youths across the counties. Korkimul said after relative
peace prevailed, he asked warriors to surrender their lives to God. “The peace
we are currently enjoying could not have been realised if the youths were not
saved,” the chief said. It was a tough journey
but at last, his efforts paid off with the restoration of calm. “I engaged them
through the gospel since it’s only the Bible that can open their minds and make
them see it’s wrong to kill each other,” he said. Korkimul organised a
party in his home and asked the warriors to come with their families. “During
the event, I invited guest pastors from other regions and we prayed for the
youths,” he said. The chief said ever since
he landed his job, many people did not know he was saved. “After feasting on
roasted goat meat, I disclosed to them the main agenda of the meeting, and
I thank God since he gave me grace and right scripts that I read to them,”
he said. The warriors asked him
many questions relating to his teachings, and he was able to answer them. “After
preaching, that evening, 15 warriors who were feared in the community, including their
team, leaders got saved,” Korkimul said. After the youths
turned over a new leaf, the chief bought iron sheets and constructed a church
in the region to help nurture them. Korkimul, who attends the church together
with the reformed warriors, said it offers proper explanation about the dangers
of raids and the importance of working hard to get wealth. Related: Peace schools to be set up in cattle rustling areas A NEW BEGINNING Warrior-turned-pastor Wilson
Merikamar said it was hard for him to abandon banditry until he got saved. He
learned that “you will be cursed for raiding but in the Lord, you will be
blessed”. Merikamar
said the guilt from his final raid made him accept Christ. “My last raid was in
2011. That day we went to a big manyatta in Turkana. Many children who could
not run and save their lives were killed. The children were left behind by
their parents, who had fled for their safety,” he said. He said when he heard
the word of the Lord for the first time, he decided to get saved, since he knew
if he didn’t abandon cattle rustling after knowing its repercussions, his
family could suffer. “I now have
peace since I started preaching the word of God. The youths who are engaging in
raids don’t know the word of God. The government should help us in setting up
churches in this region so that many people can be saved,” he said. The pastor
asked other youths who are not saved to surrender their lives to Christ since
the region needs people of sound mind to help develop the region. “Being
saved has helped us live a healthy life and interact freely with government
officers without being pursued by security forces. We have come back from the
darkness and now we need the government to help us develop this region,” he
said. More on this: Samburu men threaten to kill starving children after cattle raids Also see: [VIDEO] Cattle rustlers should be charged with murder - Samburu leaders TURNING POINT Another reformed warrior,
Micheal Tomeri, 35 years and a father of nine, said, “Since I got saved, my
eyes have been opened and I now value life.” In his past
life, Tomeri raided Turkana county many times but always escaped arrest. He
said he was preached to by a fellow warrior to abandon the practice and instead
focus on other jobs. Tomeri began rustling in
1992 and stopped in 2007. “It was like my hobby. I cannot recall the times I
crossed over to Turkana to raid, but I have nothing to show for what I gained,
since the animals were also stolen,” he said. The raid that made him
accept Christ is when his brother and a close friend, who were his accomplices,
were shot dead. “I survived but I saw my brother and my friend being shot at
close range. I managed to escape without any injury. This was my turning
point,” he said. Tomeri said he cried
but his tears could not give his brother and friend their lives. That’s when he
decided to step into the church for the first time. “Life had
lost meaning since my accomplices were no more, but after listening to the
scripture, I changed my way of living,” he said. The father
of nine said that after he got saved, his eyes were opened and now he can read
and write, even though he has never stepped in school. “God has opened my eyes
and now I’m able to read the Bible, which guides me daily,” he said. The reformed warriors
have called on the government to support them so they can influence those who
are still practising banditry to change. “We cannot be role models without
anything good to show to encourage them to stop endangering their lives,” Tomeri
said. They also asked the
government to help them set up permanent churches and schools. “We are in dire
need of adult learning centres to help us learn basic skills, such as writing
our names,” Merikamar said. Robinson Ndiema, the commissioner
of police in charge of peace building, said dialogue has enabled peace to
prevail along the volatile border. Goodwill from political leaders has also
helped the two communities get along. Ndiema said reformed
warriors have changed their lives and taken up proactive roles as peace
ambassadors. “I’m happy the warriors returned their guns and accepted to
change. Local leaders have also helped us unite the two communities,” he said. Read more: Matiang’i assigns one cop to each Kerio Valley school, orders reopening BACKSLIDING RISK Chief Korkimul said the
warriors lack jobs to sustain their families, and asked the government to help
them. “The warriors need to be helped to start their own businesses to sustain
their families, since they are young in faith and might revert to their old
ways of feeding their families,” he said. He said the relief
food he receives from the government has helped to sustain families, but it was
too little to sustain them for long. “I always encourage them not to backslide
but I cannot be preaching to them on an empty stomach,” he said. A
spot
check by the Star found that many people had settled and residents had started building
homes. The chief had led by example. “I set up a permanent house in this former
battlefield for cattle rustling to prove to residents that we need to keep
peace and lead a comfortable life,” Korkimul said. The chief has also
bought a big screen, where residents come on Sunday afternoons to view videos translated
into the local language with teachings on Christ. “I looked
for a pastor who translated videos acted in English and foreign languages to
our local language, so that residents can understand biblical teachings and
embrace peace and unity,” he said. “I love my people and I want to see them
living in peace with their neighbours.” Another former warrior
has opened up a shop and children are going to school freely without any fear. Click here for the latest political news