Residents living along Tana River have refused to heed to calls to move to higher ground following spillage of water from Masinga Dam. The water, which started overflowing early last week, is likely to cause floods as witnessed two weeks ago. Speaking to the press in Garissa town on Sunday, county Kenya Red Cross coordinator Ms Tusmo Ogle said despite conducting awareness campaigns urging residents to move to higher ground, only a handful have heeded the call. She said the Red Cross team has been informing residents of the impending floods for the last two days, but they have not been keen to move, yet previous floods destroyed their livelihoods. "We appeal to the residents to heed the floods warning and move to safer grounds. We also request assistance from stakeholders to evacuate people from the risky areas," Ogle said. She, however, said they have so far not received any reports of people being marooned by floodwaters. Ogle said they are on high alert to provide any emergency help that might be needed in case of flooding. Water levels in the hydro-electric power generating dams along the river basin have risen to a three-year high following months of heavy rains. The Kenya Electricity Generation Company is discharging 70 cubic metres per second. On Tuesday, Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter urged residents of Garissa, Hola, Garsen and Bura to move to higher grounds after announcing that dams would start overflowing. Mr Abdikarim Abdikadir from Bula power, who is among residents who have refused to move, said he has nowhere to go after previous floods destroyed his home. He said he will only move when he sees floods. "I have nowhere to go as you can see my house collapsed two weeks ago when this area flooded. I will remain here until there are floods," Abdikadir said. Ahmed Adhan,73, has moved with his family from Bula Kamor to Garissa Vocational Training College, saying he incurred heavy losses during the last floods. "I came here with my family two weeks ago as we fled floods. When we went back, we were told another flood is coming, that is why I'm here again," he said.     ​  