Former TV anchor Louis Otieno now claims that he is being victimised and singled-out in the late Careen Chepchumba's inquest. In a letter to the DPP, Otieno says he is apprehensive that his rights to equal protection of the law is being compromised. Through his lawyer Norman Magaya, the now ailing ex-anchor says that he is willing to cooperate with the DPP's office in order to unravel the truth on who killed Careen. Otieno says that Senior Principal Magistrate Charles Ondieki singled him out when he ruled that he should produce his fingernails and phone records for investigations in a judgement issued at the Kibera courts two weeks ago. "Based on the said ruling we note that the learned magistrate interestingly singled out our client for investigations as per the recommendations," Magaya said. Read:Louis Otieno needs help after going deaf Otieno further noted that despite the procedural lapses and the conclusion of the investigations, the magistrate directed the DPP to reopen the inquest after investigations are complete. He argues that the recommendations given by the magistrate to the DPP is contrary to the constitutional principle of the office of the DPP as stipulated in the law. Also read: Careen's dad tells court daughter stole money to give Louis Otieno before her murder Read: We sought inquest for lack of sufficient proof on Careen’s killer - cop In an interesting twist, Otieno has told the DPP that he will provide all that is required including his DNA and phone as long Careen's family are also directed to provide the same samples to the authorities. " [My client] is willing to cooperate with your office as may be required of him so as to unravel the truth and ensure the ends of justice are met," Magaya added. Otieno's career came to an end when his name came up in the murder of the late Carreen. Careen was his neighbour and said to be Louis’ lover. Also read: Louis Otieno to face fresh probe over Careen Chepchumba's death Click here for the latest political news 