The international conflict agency has opposed the proposed law changes. International Centre for Policy and Conflict  executive director Ndung’u Wainaina said it is too early to make constitutional changes when some areas are yet to be implemented. Wainaina on Saturday said Kenyans waited more than 20 years to get a new Constitution. “It should not be mutilated for selfish reasons,” he said. Opposition chief Raila Odinga has started a debate on changes to create a three-tier system of government. The structure provides a regional bloc that would be a bridge between the national and county governments. It will ensure a seamless relationship and equitable development. But Wainaina said, “You cannot just wake up after seven years and start amending the Constitution. There has to be a proper process.” The new Constitution was promulgated in August, 2010. Speaking at Sunrise Hotel in Mombasa, Wainaina said there has to be a full audit to know which parts of the Constitution work and which ones do not. “We also need to confirm that all the laws and institutions that existed before the enactment of a new Constitution have been fully amended and in conformity,” the human rights defender said. “It is strange that people are talking about amending a Constitution that we have not audited.” Wainaina said the Devolution conference held in Kakamega did not address key structural issues of the national government to align it with the new Constitution. He said the Transition Authority was disbanded before it completed its work. Raila said, “My proposal is that we adopt a three-tier system that retains the current counties, creates regional governments and retains the national government and with a very clear formula for revenue sharing.” The proposal kicked off a political storm, with Deputy President William Ruto opposed to the proposed changes. Wainaina said Kenya needs a programme based on the full implementation of the Constitution, not amorphous gentleman arrangements, which have no legal basis. “You cannot have two gentlemen coming out of an office and reading a statement, which has no legal basis and does not establish and confirm that we do have a Constitution,” he said. Click here for the latest political news