University of Eldoret’s Trojans retained their KRU Championship status after beating Nationwide losing semifinalists Swara 26-16 in a play-off match in Eldoret on Saturday. The fate of Ngong RFC is in the balance after their playoff encounter against Eldoret failed to take off due to the poor state of the field at Kibiku Secondary School in Ngong. Eldoret RFC team manager, Eric Nyangoya, said they were awarded the game 24-0. However, a statement of the KRU website said the verdict on the outcome of the fixture will be determined and delivered today by the League Committee. “We travelled all the way to Ngong but the referee deemed the field un-playable and awarded us the game. We are through to KRU championship,” said Nyangoya. In Eldoret, UOE’s coach Kelvin Otieno hailed his charges for playing their hearts out against Swara. “We played under very difficult conditions. I didn’t even have substitutions on the bench because of the lecturers’ strike but I’m delighted we remained in KRU Championship,” said Otieno. He added: “Next season, we will start our preparations early so that we don’t find ourselves in the same situation. We hope to beef up in a bid to bolster the team.” Meanwhile, Masinde Murilo University of Agriculture and Technology (MMUST) are the new Nationwide champions. MMUST, enjoying the support of the home crowds including Vice Chancellor Fredrick Otieno, beat Kitale RFC 27-6 to lift the title. MMUST broke the deadlock five minutes into the game when Felix Okumu went over for the game’s opening try. Former Mwamba winger Jeremy Chimwani got Kitale’s only points on the board, drilling home a penalty eight minutes later to bring the score to 5-3 but MMUST landed three tries from Samuel Mbeche, Ian Mukazi and Okumu who scored a brace with Derick Okisai converting to catapult the side 19- point lead at the interval. Morris Marathi’s try immediately after the restart took MMUST 27-3 up before Chimwani drilled home Kitale’s second penalty eight minutes into the second half.