Police investigations into the NYS scandal are following the trail of only Sh900 million and not Sh9 billion as widely believed and reported recently. The decision was reached after investigators reconciled the accounts of expenditure of the troubled National Youth Service. Highly placed sources yesterday told the Star that only the smaller amount was in dispute, according to records of payments by the institution. The investigators have been digging through the NYS documents and comparing them with the amounts paid to suppliers before reaching the conclusion. Read: CBK probes 6 banks over NYS payments The sources said of the 900 million, police have narrowed down their investigations to Sh121 million, which was paid out to suppliers and whose documentation supporting the payments was questionable. PS Lilian Mbogo on Monday presented payment vouchers and documentation used by the agency. DCI chief George Kinoti is expected to release a preliminary report of their findings to the public by the end of the week. Mbogo and NYS director general Richard Ndubai — who have since stepped aside for three months — are among top-ranking government officials questioned by the police over the scandal, earlier reported to be close to Sh9 billion. And yesterday, a businesswoman who is allegedly at the centre of the National Youth Service scam has denied involvement. Through lawyer Ashford Mugwuku, accountant Eunice Ngeene said the media misreported that she is the owner of Excella Limited, which is shown to have been paid Sh282 million. Read: NYS Scandal: PS Lillian Omollo, NYS Director Richard Ndubai step aside Ngeene says she has no connections with the NYS. In a letter in which she is accusing a local newspaper, Ngeene says she will sue for libel on grounds that the media outlet misreported and maliciously published that Excella Limited was paid by the NYS. “You have further published that Ngeene is the owner of Excella Limited which is false,” reads the demand letter. Ngeene wants the article withdrawn and an acceptable apology rendered within seven days from today or legal proceedings will be instituted against the newspaper. “Our instructions are on May 18, you published a defamatory story ‘Exposed who was paid what by NYS and Revealed who was paid what at NYS in the new Sh9 billion scandal’,” reads the demand letter. More: PS denies Sh10bn lost in NYS scandal Click here for the latest political news