Embakasi East MP has ended his hostility towards President Uhuru Kenyatta after hailing the launch of Sh2.7 billion road projects in Eastlands. The MP, who was an all-time critic of Uhuru's administration, on Wednesday lauded the government for launching upgrades on roads in the area. Babu said the project, which is part of the Nairobi regeneration program, will be a boost to other ongoing rehabilitation of feeder roads. "We have been doing our own road projects but this mega launch will play a huge role in uplifting the face of Embakasi," the legislator said. They are Komarock, Harambee Estate Sacco, Kayole Spine, Donholm Phase V and VIII, Eldoret, and Nyasa roads. Uhuru indicated that he chose to launch the Nairobi Regeneration in Eastlands as a demonstration of the Jubilee government’s concern for the interest of the common mwananchi. Read: Kura completes Sh677 million upgrade of Eastleigh roads and builds footpaths "We have decided to start this program here before it even goes to other parts of Nairobi occupied by the affluent," Uhuru said. Babu welcomed the venture as befitting for Embakasi - deemed to have the largest population in the capital, and also proximal to the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport. "It had to start here because we have key industries and more so the airport whose neighbouring residential areas must have better infrastructure," he said. Babu said he has managed to repair New Donholm Road, Upper Savana, Fedha-Telaviv roads. Works on the Benedictor-Kincar road and Hulingham road in Mihango are ongoing. Read: Uhuru spanks Ruto, says handshake with Raila intact The President directed the contractors awarded the tenders for the projects to ensure they are completed by December. He said this must be so, failure to which the contractors will suffer penalties, including being snatched the tenders. He also warned contractors against the tendency to go for shortcuts further urging citizens to monitor the progress of the project. "Report to authorities if you see that work is not being done," the president said in one of his stop overs. Click here for the latest political news