A 31-bed hospital has been opened in Likoni, Mombasa, to help expectant mothers from the South Coast. Mrima Hospital, built in partnership with MSF, is the main facility for maternal healthcare in Likoni subcounty. It will ease expectant mothers’ trouble as they will no longer have to cross by ferry to Mombasa Island to look for services. The facility will provide neonatal and comprehensive emergency obstetric care. The hospital will officially be opened today by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, but it has been operational since May 1. Mombasa chief health officer Khadija Shikely said the hospital will adopt new treatment models so expectant mothers can get quality care. “We feel this new partnership will shape the sexual and reproductive healthcare services we offer in the country. This facility will employ various models that can be learnt and adopted even by other facilities in and outside the country,” Shikely said. The two-year expansion and equipping of the hospital was a collaboration of the county government and Medecins Sans Frontieres. MSF head of mission Stephanie Giandonato said the need for emergency obstetrics and neonatal care in Likoni motivated them to come up with such a facility. “Expectant mothers faced a risk of complications and even losing their lives during labour due to delays caused by the ferry crossing to Mombasa Island,” Giandonato said. According to the MSF in April last year, there was no emergency obstetrics facility in Likoni subcounty, and women who had complications had to be referred to another hospital only reached by ferry. Long waits for treatment and delivery can endanger the lives of mothers and babies. While maternal deaths in Kenya have declined over the last few years, pregnancy and childbirth-related complications still account for nearly one-fifth of deaths of women of reproductive age, according to MSF. In 2015, an estimated 34,000 babies died in Kenya before they reached one month of age. But with the help of skilled birth attendants and access to appropriate drugs and equipment, MSF says, women’s lives and those of their babies can be saved. MSF began working in Likoni in February 2016. It helped with deliveries and referral of women with complications to Coast Provincial General Hospital.