The Powers and Privileges Act is meant to support the independence of Parliament as one arm of government and to ensure that other arms of government do not interfere with the business of the Senate and the National Assembly. The court's decision to do away with Sections 7 and 11 of the Act shows the dictatorial nature of the courts. Many other times, we've had ways to protect Parliament but now to allow MPs to be served within Parliamentary precincts completely removes its independence. As a government and country, we cannot permit such court decisions to stand. This is unacceptable. We've been blaming the Executive for not honoring court orders but now the Judiciary is dictating and pushing issues down the throat of Parliament. As Parliament's leadership, we will not allow this to continue. When we resume sittings from recess very soon, we shall discuss this in detail and as well as other areas where we need to make Parliament as independent as it has always been. The decision to enact such legislation is informed by common, standard practice among Commonwealth Parliamentarians — this is not unique to Kenya. An arm of government like Parliament, which is defending the citizens of this country, must be independent much as possible. Parliamentarians do not speak for themselves, they speak for the the citizens of this country. They make decisions on behalf of the people of Kenya and that is why the independence of these members is critical. You cannot just dictate to Parliament, which is supposed to be independent. Parliament should be independent so that it is able to execute issues without fear or favour. We have not misused any powers and privileges granted to Parliament and we have never said Parliament is above the law. We are only saying Parliament should be independent. We should not create fear and for sure the Parliamentary Service Commission should proceed as soon as possible to appeal this unfortunate ruling. The Majority Whip in the National Assembly spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news