Residents of the coal-rich Mui region have told Governor Charity Ngilu to tread carefully in bringing in coal mining to displace them. Three weeks ago, Ngilu gave residents a six-month notice to vacate and allow mining to start. But on Saturday residents said the notice was too short. MCA Jacob Kavolonza told Ngilu to scrap the vacate notice. He said by the end of that period residents will still be tending their crops. Due process must be followed and the issues raised by residents solved, he said. Kivou MCA Charles Muthui said resettlement takes time and residents should not be rushed into relocating. Eric Mutua, the liaison committee chairman, said residents’ grievances have not been resolved. “There are certain prerequisites. I urge residents to go on with their normal lives. We have some years to go. Before vacating, we should be contented that even if we leave our ancestral land, we do so happily,” Mutua, a former LSK chairman, said at a meeting in Mathuki. Residents have demanded that the government commit to building a power plant in Mui. Mutua expressed fears the government might use the plant being built in Lamu to process coal from Kitui. “This is something to be factored in. It’s not in this year’s budget. If here is any allocation for the power plant, it could be factored in next year,” Mutua said. “The construction of a power plant takes about three years. Other issues are also to be included. So it [relocation] will take time. Forget about the six months.” Angelina Muthui from Kathumo said many women have no land titles, and some have fake copies. Names on title deeds differ from those on their ID cards, the documents have no ID numbers and parcel sizes are not cited, she said. Muthangya Mavuli from Ngiluni said an environmental impact assessment has not been carried out. No mining can start without an EIA report, he said. Mavuli warned against betrayal and said their representative must be from the area. He accused a state official he did not name of bribing residents to create divisions and feuds. “He [the official] was sent by his boss to our meeting last Saturday. He came back to continue giving cash handouts, but I’m happy that has changed nothing,” he said. Surveyor Felix Kiteme called for verification of land ownership. “This needs three months for a new area list to be provided. The undervaluation of land must also be corrected. I urge locals to forward the names of their late relatives to their chiefs so they can claim ownership of their parcels. Our able lawyer has promised to help,” he said.