Florence Kamau is a well-known political activist in Nairobi’s Dagoretti South constituency. In the 2013 election, she campaigned for Raila Odinga’s Cord. After Evans Kidero won the Nairobi governorship, he rewarded her with a job at City Hall. One day Florence was photographed with Raila. She posted the picture on her Facebook page. On another occasion, she was in a group visiting Raila’s rural home. Florence posted on Facebook a picture of herself and Raila’s wife, Ida, in Bondo. She had no idea those pictures would turn her life upside down years later. In last year’s election, Florence’s Dagoretti South constituency was largely peaceful although there were pockets of violence and widespread tension. But things were rather hot in neighbouring Dagoretti North, which covers the sprawling Kawangware suburbs. Attacks were reported in some places. Word started going round that Florence was organising youths allied to Nasa to kill Kikuyus and destroy their property in Kawangware. Her pictures with Raila and Ida were widely circulated on social media to reinforce that message. Florence became a wanted woman. Unknown people threatened her through telephone calls and messages. Florence arrived home one day to find a large group of youths baying for her blood. They ordered her out of her business premises. She and her son fled into hiding. “The next day I went to report at Kabete police station. Police advised me to stay away from home as they did their investigations,” she said. No one was arrested for threatening her. Florence and her son were traumatised for months. It is only now that their life is beginning to return to normal. Yet Florence was never involved in organising any political violence in Kawangware. Area MP John ‘KJ’ Kiarie, of Jubilee, condemned her harassment, telling journalists Florence had no capacity to mobilise youths to cause chaos. Florence was a victim of fake news. President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law the Computer Misuse and Cybercrimes Act last week, ostensibly to protect citizens like Florence. There is no question that fake news has become a menace. People’s lives could be ruined by damaging false information spread about them. In the era of powerful social media, fake news needs to be tamed. Propagating fake news earns the convicted purveyor a fine of Sh5 million, two years in prison or both under the new law. It stipulates stiff penalties for many other offences connected to ICT like hacking, cyberbullying and spreading child pornography. But this is a bad law from the perspective of media freedom and free speech. Around the world tyrannical regimes are using fake news as an excuse to clamp down on free speech. The free speech campaign group Article 19 says the law “contains several broadly defined offences with harsh sentences that could dramatically chill freedom of expression online in Kenya”. ICTs have radically expanded the space for free speech. You don’t have to call a radio station to say what you think or send a letter to the editor, which might not be published. You can post your views anywhere online. This scares tyrants who cherish unquestioned power. A ‘chilling effect’ means killing robust debate about public affairs because citizens fear being arrested. A pall of silence is thrown over the nation. Between protecting individuals and institutions who might suffer harm from cybergoons, and promoting a diversity of voices on public affairs, which better serves public interest? The New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists said the new law will “criminalize free speech, with journalists and bloggers likely to be among the first.” It goes against the Constitution, which envisions an open society. Uhuru, in signing the law, did not heed these deep concerns. That is an eloquent testimony to his democratic credentials — not that we didn’t know them already anyway. What remains for the people of Kenya is to rise up and resist this draconian law. We have laws to protect people like Florence Kamau.