Top security chiefs are yet to finalize an accident report on the uninsured VIP carrier helicopter that crashed about two years ago costing taxpayers Sh2.28 billion. A parliamentary watchdog committee scrutinizing audit reports on Interior Ministry’s expenditures for 2015-16 financial year was on Friday told that only a preliminary report is available. “There is no accident report as yet the investigations are still ongoing spearheaded by the technical state department namely State Department of Transport (Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation),” Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said. The Twin Turbine Engine VIP Carrier Helicopter crashed at the National Youth Service engineering institute near Mathare on September 8, 2016, five months after its registration on April 26, 2016. The chopper, whose purchase details remain classified, was not compensated by the tendering firm because it did not have insurance and warranty. Read: Four cops injured after new police helicopter crashes in Mathare Kibicho, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, Director Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and Principal Secretary Immigration, Border Control and Registration of Persons Gordon Kihalangwa were appearing before the National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee. The security chiefs were at pains to explain to the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi why the final accident report was taking too long. The Auditor General Edward Ouko’s officers tasked with examining the procurement of the Augusta Westland AW-139 helicopter under the National Police Service indicted the security chiefs for negligence on grounds it was not under warranty six months after being registered. “The country just lost money like that. The chopper was only four months after being bought and with the crash the billions were lost,” Suna East MP Junet Mohamed said. The auditors noted that the absence of the accident report makes it difficult to ascertain whether the crash was by natural cause, technical or pilot’s error which are possible grounds to recover the loss. Kibicho said the helicopter crash was simply normal unexpected accident in responding to Junet’s remarks. “Whenever an accident occurs there has to be loss. We have seen people buy a vehicle only for it to crash on their way home,” the Interior PS said. Read: Uncertified pilot crashed police helicopter However, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro raised concern over Kibicho’s stand by questioning why there were no victims of the helicopter crash. “Was this really a real accident? How is it that there were no fatalities? Nyoro said. Kibicho in response said, “Yes. It was an accident. An accident can occur and there are no fatalities.” Kibicho confirmed to the committee that the helicopter just like others owned by NPS had not been insured at the time of the accident. “This would require huge budgetary outlays to finance the insurance. However, KCAA has demanded that all aircrafts as all the personnel be insured as this is mandatory requirement going forward,” he said. The Interior PS also told MPs that only some parts of the helicopter such as the avionics had warranty and that their documents are in safe custody of NPS Director Airwing at Wilson Airport. Read also: State honchos ‘block’ Sh2.3bn chopper probe Kibicho and Boinnet were also put on the spot by auditors over the “pathetic and unpleasant” situation where some police officers across the country wear worn out shoes. They admitted the existence of the problem but pointed out that it is caused by insufficient funding. “We have been trying to provide uniform to officers within the available budget, however, the annual budget allocation has not been sufficient to meet the demand,” Boinnet said. He noted that providing uniform and equipping the National Police Service in its modernization agenda is paramount in improving the general welfare of police officers. Kibicho had a hard time to convince the Wandayi-led PAC team that the Interior ministry does not own an irregularly opened secret bank account with Kenya Commercial Bank where Sh8.696 billion was transferred to. The auditors disclosed that the money was transferred to KCB bank account at Moi Avenue Branch between June 2013 and January 2017. The ministry’s alleged bank account was opened contrary to the Section 28 (1) of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012 requiring the National Treasury’s authority to open and operate bank accounts. “The bank account no. 1109896077 at the Kenya Commercial Bank is not a Ministry account. It is a Kenya Commercial Bank internal collection Account,” Kibicho said. The security chiefs on Monday are expected to present crucial documents to PAC responding to various audit queries for the committee to scrutinize and clear once their expenditures or management actions are justifiable. Click here for the latest political news