Illegal logging and corruption practices around forest conservation have put forests on the verge of extinction. In an interview with the Star, Planning PS Julius Muia says raising the forest cover to 10 per cent by 2030 was among the flagship projects in the Vision 2030 economic blueprint, and since inception in 2009, tree cover has increased from 4-7.2 per cent. Q. Is the ongoing afforestation a planned and sustainable exercise or a knee-jerk reaction? The afforestation we are talking about now in government is part of the long-term framework of the Vision 2030, where in the social pillar, we are addressing the question about the environment through afforestation and conservation to improve tree cover and ensure we are covered in terms of effects on climate change. It is one of the initiatives we started seriously in 2009, so this is not something we are doing for the time being; it is a long-term process. The bigger target, which is more relevant for that matter, is the 10 per cent tree cover we were expecting to achieve by 2030. But now, looking at the government planning, we are looking to achieve the 10 per cent tree cover by 2022. Because we need to make sure we are completely aware and we also take cognisance of the challenges of accomplishing that, we are accelerating the afforestation programme so we can achieve the tree cover we desire. Q. How would you judge the progress in meeting the afforestation target? In 2008, when we were preparing to launch Vision 2030, the tree cover was about four per cent, and today, we are at about 7.2 per cent, so you can see we have about three per cent remaining before we achieve that target. Therefore, I would say the progress has been good, despite the worsening climatic conditions. It [afforestation] is one of the programmes the government has been promoting, and lately you have seen the Environment ministry is very busy and prominent because of what they are doing to ensure they achieve afforestation. Why has illegal logging increased threatening the efforts the state is employing to conserve forests? Illegal logging takes place in places where we have trees that are suitable for timber and it is not something that has just started, it has always been there. We are trying to restrict it for those purposes because we have a problem of climate change. But there are people who are still going out there without proper licensing and permits and I would say that to some extent, that has slowed our progress, but that is why the government has accelerated vigilance so that people who are caught doing illegal logging are dealt with properly according to the law. And now to reverse the effects of illegal logging, we are accelerating the reafforestation program that is why very soon you will hear a lot of activities along tree planting. We want to engage the whole country to support the programme. Does the government have adequate resources for the afforestation and reafforestation programme? In terms of resources, when we were launching Vision 2030, 70 per cent of funding of the projects was supposed to come from outside of the public sector. Therefore, funding is question of prioritisation. It is what you choose to do before what. Because we are choosing to spend quite some bit of money directly to tree planting, then I won't say that the question of funding is something we are worried about. And in any event, as we are doing afforestation, this is being done in the counties, where we can combine with some clever arrangements to get some people employed as they are planting and selling the seedlings so they can be planted as trees. So there is another ecosystem that you can say is a business around it that we had not factored in in the Vision 2030 — employment under social pillar — and also improvement in micro-climate when we are planting trees. Have forests and lands been appropriately mapped out for reforestation and afforestation? There is a lot more that we need to look at in terms of ecosystem. Because of the challenge of droughts that is associated with climate change and challenge of floods that we are witnessing, we are going to see the government more focused in terms of making sure that where we are supposed to have forests, they are maintained as such, and where we have identified a place for afforestation, then trees are planted accordingly. One of the advantages is the national spatial plan that was launched in March 2017, which is basically a framework showing where in the country activities will be held, like where you will have urban settlements, forests, land set aside for farming and for wildlife. It is the framework that is going to define where we are going to have our forests, and now that we have medium long-term plans in place, we are asking county governments to also come up with their spatial plans so that within their counties, they go deeper and replicate the same on a smaller scale. Which government institutions other than the Kenya Forestry Service are involved in the tree-planting programme? The Environment ministry itself, which provides the policy framework, is the overarching institution that we should look at. The leadership at the ministry level is not enough. You go back to the leadership at the top and that is the presidency. When you come down from the President to the Deputy President, then you look at the institutions in the Ministry [of Environment], then it is the KFS that has mandate and duty to operationalise that concept and policies by making sure we have enough seedlings available that can be distributed for planting. If you look at our functions according to the constitution, afforestation and conservation is a devolved function. So we have to go down to the counties and ask ourselves as the national government, what are the counties doing, so the other big player is the counties. The others are the people who own the land, who will plant and look after the trees, and it is the same people who should have the passion to conserve trees so that we can have afforestation and conservation not only at the high macro level of the ministries and KFS, but also at the micro level, where the farmer, the household, the mwananchi is the one to look at in terms of afforestation. How is the relationship between counties, national government and other stakeholders in the afforestation programmes? KFS, which is the agency of the national government and a specialist in the area of afforestation, is represented in the counties. Within the county government, we have the department of forestry that is specifically tasked with making sure we engage and make sure we have enough ecosystems. Each party is aware about its roles. At the county level, they have their own people who do the surveillance and at the national level we not only have forces that are available but also the courts system, which is vital in enforcement of the laws. And obviously there are Civil Society Organisations that are involved in the area of afforestation. There are also some think tanks that do research like the Kenya Forestry Research Institute, which does research on which trees are appropriate for which ecological system, and when you add all that then you have got quite a number of players who are coming together. Don't forget that Unep is headquartered in Nairobi and they play a larger part in influencing in terms of propagating and disseminating useful information about afforestation.