The father-in-law of the woman killed in an accident allegedly caused by pastor James Ng’ang’a has said he is scared for his life. Peter Ndung’u’s house in Murengeti village, Limuru constituency, was broken into on Sunday. Ndung’u is the secretary of Utheri wa Lari land buying company in Mai Mahiu. He said he left w ith his family at 10am for church at PCEA Murengeti. When they came back in the afternoon, the door next to his garage was broken. "The two bedrooms had been ransacked. Documents, clothes that were boxes and shoes were spilled all over,” Ndung’u said. "I don’t know who they were or what they were looking for. I don’t also know how they gained entry because the gate was locked and the fence was intact.” Ndung’u was with his wife Maureen Wanjiku. They reported the break-in at Tigoni police station. Detectives and crime scene officers went to the house to gather evidence. Ndung’u declined to reveal what was missing, saying the investigators will share what they find out. "It is hard to know what has been stolen. Electronics and other household items are intact,” he said. On May 8, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i ordered a fresh probe into Ng’ang’a’s accident. The Neno Evangelism Centre preacher was acquitted of the charge of causing the death of Mercy Njeri by dangerous driving in 2015. Ng’ang’a was freed by a Limuru court on May 4 on grounds that the prosecution failed to prove its case. The decision sparked public outcry. The family has said it will appeal the ruling. He was acquitted at a Limuru court alongside driver Simon Kuria and police officers Christopher Nzioka and Patrick Baya. Security was tight when the four arrived. Chief magistrate Godfrey Oduor said the prosecution did not produce enough evidence for their conviction. “The four don’t have a case to answer,” he said. BRAZEN CRIME It was alleged that the pastor drove carelessly on August 26, resulting in Njeri’s death. The driver of the car collided head-on with a Nissan at Manguo, Limuru. Kuria and Nzioka had been accused of giving false information to police while Baya, who was Tigoni police station base commander, faced a charge of neglecting his duties. The four denied the charges. Matiang’i said the Interior ministry noted with surprise that the pastor was acquitted “yet a brazen crime was committed by the accused person”. He tasked the DCI with conducting comprehensive investigations to guide the Judicial Service Commission on what to do. "This should be done with a view to reaching a suitable corrective and deterrent action to take against persons found culpable for improper handling of this case,” Matiang’i said. Ndung’u has also been involved in the struggle to get security for shareholders of Utheri wa Lari company at their disputed land at Mai Mahiu, Naivasha. The shareholders have met opposition from the Maasai community opposed to them occupying the 22,000 acres. Ndung’u has appealed to police to beef up patrols around his home. Click here for the latest political news