Four athletes will represent Eastern region at next month’s Special Olympics Kenya national games set for June 25 in Nairobi. Winners at the national show will represent the country at the Summer World Games in Abu Dhabi next year. Onesmus Mutinda, who won the 10,000m and 1500m races respectively leads the team of four alongside Zippora Muthama (800/1500m), Justus Mutethia (800m) and Catherine Wanjue (50m/standing jump). The region, which is made of Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kitui and Makueni counties, in unified volleyball and basketball. Makueni will represent the region in unified female volleyball after beating Machakos while Meru and Makueni will represent the region in unified male basketball and male beach volleyball respectively. Makueni will also field a team in handball. Speaking after conclusion of the Eastern regional games competition at Kaaga Primary school over the weekend, the national director of Special Olympics Kenya, Susan Masila, appealed for funds in a bid to raise the standards of the game in the spheres. Masila called upon the respective counties to set aside funds to support the disabled sporting activities in their respective devolved units. She said: “Makueni teams have won in most of the disciplines due to funding from the county. I plead with all county offices to take the responsibility of allocating money to support their special disabled. The counties have made it clear that they will not to leave anyone out in their sustainable development goals.” She added; “I urge parents not to hide their needy or disabled children. Special Olympics changes the lives of people with intellectual disability and raise awareness about their talent and abilities as well as the injustice, isolation, intolerance and inactivity they face.” Sports director Makueni County Ambrose Kisoi echoed Masila sentiments saying: “We sponsored the teams but many have funding challenges and counties need to set up camps for continuous training through out the year and every county needs to allocate funds.”