Eldama Ravine residents have asked to move to safer grounds following fears of an overflow of Chemususu dam. Cracks have also been spotted on the reservoir with 12 million cubicmetres capacity. “We’re fearing a disaster similar to the Solai Dam tragedy that claimed 48 lives in Nakuru,” nominated MP Sammy Seronei said. He warned the dam could overflow if the heavy rain persists. “The walls might collapse anytime. Something needs to be done urgently,” Seronei said. He was speaking on Saturday during Deputy President William Ruto’s tour of Eldama-Ravine. The Sh5 billion dam was built in July 2009 to supply water to residents of Baringo and Nakuru counties. It was handed over to the government in 2013. The reservoir is yet to be put to use following a delay in piping and installation of a treatment plant. “Usage would have regulated the volume. The uncontrolled flow means the dam can burst its walls anytime if rain persists,” Seronei said. He said the delay has caused suffering to residents of Eldama-Ravine and Mogotio after springs from the Lembus Forest were diverted to the dam. The residents fetched water from the springs. In March 2016, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto toured the dam. Uhuru said the government had allocated Sh4.5billion for phase two works that included piping and installation of a treatment plant.The works are yet to be completed. On Saturday, Ruto said the works will be completed in 60 days. “We have asked the contractor to finish the works in the next 60 days after which I don’t want to hear about water shortage complaints in Eldama-Ravine and its environs,” Ruto said. Ruto said the government was planning to begin the construction of Radat Dam in Baringo south and complete the phase two works at Kirandich Dam. The two dams will serve residents of Kabarnet, Kabartonjo and Tenges towns. Residents have previously protested the delays. “We cannot take care of the forests yet we don’t benefit from their waters,” Wilson Kiragu said. A director at the Rift Valley Water Services board, Christine Ndoigo, had earlier asked the residents to guard the dam against vandalism, saying it was the biggest investment from the government. Chemususu Dam, the largest in Rift Valley, will supply 35,000 cubic meters of water per day when it is completed.