EALA MP Simon Mbugua has been arrested over links to the hired goons who attacked former NCBDA chairman Timothy Muruiki After his arrest on Tuesday afternoon, Mbugua was taken to Central police station for grilling. Nairobi OCPD Robinson Thuku told the Star he had not been briefed on the matter but Nairobi DCI Chief Ireri Kamwende said the MP was helping police with investigations. Reached for comment by phone, Mbugua confirmed that he was being questioned. A press conference by the Nairobi Central Business District Association ended in disarray on April 30 after a group of heavily built men stormed the venue and beat up Muriuki. He called the meeting at Hotel Boulevard to address the problems business people face. The attackers, however, claimed he was a conman hired to tarnish Governor Mike Sonko's name. In his response to the incident, he said the goons will not go Scot-free. He said no amount of intimidation will stop him from seeking justice against the men who assaulted him. Details: [VIDEO] CBD association ex-chairman beaten up 'for tarnishing Sonko name' Also read: My attackers won’t go scot-free, says Muriuki Police later released the photos of the men who attacked Muriuki and placed a Sh2.5 million bounty on them, Sh500,000 on each one. The Nairobi Assembly once accused Mbugua of running the show at City Hall by meddling in county affairs. A cross-section of MCAs asked Governor Mike Sonko to clarify his role at City Hall. The MP denied claims including secretly running the show since Polycarp Igathe resigned as Deputy Governor. Sonko came to his defense saying he had not delegated duties to anyone. "I have learned that some cartels have started fighting back after I sealed all corruption loopholes at City Hall," he said. "The few individuals who want to interfere with my leadership have approached some MCAs and started engaging them in ill-motives." More on this: Police offer Sh2.5m for arrest of men who attacked NCBDA ex-boss Click here for the latest political news