A distraught family that lost their six-year-old daughter in the Solai Dam tragedy have carried out DNA tests after the baby was claimed by a second family. Mother Teresia Njeri told reporters they have had sleepless nights as they have not buried Mary Wambui since the May 9 tragedy. “Nothing pains a mum than losing a child in a tragedy and leaving the body in a mortuary for days. We are traumatised. I can’t take this anymore. Why can’t I be given my child’s body for burial,” the grieving 32-year-old Njeri said. Read: 44 swept to death as Nakuru dam bursts wall More: I looked behind and my kids were gone, mother recounts Solai tragedy The second family says the body is Mary Wanjiku’s, their nine-year-old daughter whose mother drowned. But Njeri says she sure it is Wambui’s because she was swept away by the water. Some 48 people were killed when Solai Dam burst two weeks ago, 41 were buried last Wednesday. Njeri said she is restless and has been going down on her knees to pray for the matter to be concluded. Her sister Susan Wanja says it has been hard for the family to cope with the loss. No words can comfort the child’s mother, she says. “We lost our father Stephen Mbugua in the tragedy. We buried him. Now the body of my niece is lying in the mortuary waiting for DNA tests. It is unfair. Why hasn’t the other family claiming the body shown up for DNA tests?” Wanja said. Nakuru county public health officer Dr Samuel King’ori said the man who claimed the body has not be tested to ascertain the truth. Rongai county commissioner Julius Kavita urged the man to turn up so they can bring the matter to rest. “The samples of the woman claiming the body have been taken. We are waiting for the man,” Kavita said. “We want him to come so we can collect samples from parents from the two families and compare them to those of the child.” Read: Uhuru makes grand promises to victims of Solai dam tragedy Also read: Arrest Solai Dam owner – senators Click here for the latest political news