Defending champions Telkom quest of finishing the 2018 Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) season without conceding suffered a massive blow as they were forced to come from two goals down to beat Sliders 5-2 at City Park yesterday. The 20-time champions had set their sights on a 100 percent record this season but Sliders ended their dream thanks to first half goals from Nancy Kibogong and experienced Anita Agunda. Telkom, under the stewardship of assistant coach Josephine Ataro, who held the brief for grieving head coach Jos Openda, were punished for their sluggish start as Sliders sounded the board four minutes into the game through a short corner. Kibogong beat Telkom’s stopper and Kenyan international, Cynthia Onyango from Charity Miller’s short corner to send the ecstatic crowd wild. Four minutes later, Sliders were awarded a flick kick after Barbra Simuyu brought down Doris Kitui in the area and Agunda calmly sent the ball into the net to double the scores. However, Telkom responded swiftly as Jackie Mwangi hit a brace in the 13th and 29th minutes to take the teams level at 2-2 at the break. On resumption, Telkom showed their superiority as they tore Sliders into pieces with quick-fire and well executed goals. Simiyu made amends to her first half flick kick as she delivered a brace in the 31st and 38th minutes while Georgina Lumumba eased herself onto the score-sheet in in between. Ataro said her side was slow in the first quarter of the match and her instructions were not followed. “We were slow in the first quarter of the match and Sliders took their chances well. I had instructed the girls to begin the match on a high tempo but they did the contrary. We are going to correct the mistakes we made today and focus on finishing the season without losing now that our goal is gone.” Earlier on, Strathmore University beat Chase Amira 2-0 at the same venue. The match was marred by serious head injury to Kenyan international and Strathmore defender Elizabeth Ngombo while Amira’s Sandra Vodoti was stretched off in the final minutes of the game with a torn muscle. The duel seemed headed for a barren draw until Kenyan international Gilly Okumu found the back of the net twice in favour of Strathmore in the final three minutes of the game.