Ex-Transport CS Michael Kamau on Wednesday appeared in court over fraud allegations but failed to take a plea. Kamau had been summoned to court to answer to fresh charges of abuse of office in relation to the irregular payment of Sh 33 million in a road tender. He was expected to face charges in relation to the Kamukunywa Kaaptama -Kapsokwony Sirisia road in Bungoma that led to the loss of the public funds. When he turned up accompanied by his lawyer Nelson Havi, Kamau told anti-corruption court magistrate Douglas Ogoti he has already filed an application seeking to quash the charges, and thus the court ought to wait for that ruling. Opposing the plea taking, Havi said the charges being preferred against Kamau were previously terminated by the Court of Appeal. The lawyer said the prosecution's move to reopen the case is an abuse of the Court process and amounts to intimidation. But the prosecution led by Assistant DPP Fredrick Ashimosi and Alloys Kemo opposed the application and urged Court to order he face trial. The duo said the fresh charges were properly instituted by their boss Noordin Hajji. They said that the decision to charge Kamau was made following the reconstitution of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. Read: EACC raids ex-CS Michael Kamau's home over Sh33 million tender The Court of Appeal had terminated the earlier case on grounds that EACC was not properly constituted at the time the probe against the former CS was launched. The DPP informed the court that the Appeals court only discharged Kamau but did not order for his acquittal. The court will rule on June 14 on whether to dismiss the case or order Kamau to plead to the charges. Kamau's two co-accused Mwangi Maingi and Nicholas Ng’ang’a have already been charged. They denied charges of abuse of office and giving misleading documents last week on Tuesday. They are jointly accused of arbitrarily authorising the redesigning of the road leading to the loss of public funds. More on this: Former CS Kamau loses bid to terminate corruption case Click here for the latest political news  