The old adage if it ain’t broken don’t fix it, is the mantra Gor Mahia will use  as the mid season transfer window approaches according to a club official Ronald Ngala. Gor is so far engaged in two competitions, the Caf Confederation Cup and the Kenyan Premier League. With the KPL Top 8 as well as the Football Kenya Fedeartion Cup set to be played anytime from next month, K’Ogalo might be the most stretched side as far as human resource is concerned. Despite the visible need of adding more players in the team, Gor Mahia Ngala says the club will not be signing new players. “We are in a very strong position in the competitions we are taking part in because we have enough players to do the job. I do not think we will be signing any new players next month, we have quality and quantity and the job will be done,” . “As we had put it in the beginning of the season, we want to excel in all the competitions we are taking part in,” Ngala told Goal.Com. Gor Mahia is currently top of the league table and have started Caf Confederation Cup Group stages quite well after drawing 1-1 away against Rayon Sports of Rwanda. Meanwhile, Kenyan internationals Jesse Were, David Owino and Anthony Akumu have all been included in Zesco United 18-man squad set to travel to Tunisia for the Caf Champions League match. Zesco will take on Etoile Sportive Du Sahel of Tunisia at the Stade Olympique de Sousse on May 16, 2018, and Team ya Zika have promised to squeeze maximum points away. “We promise you a positive result as we meet Etoile in the match,” Zesco United promised fans ahead of the tie. Zesco are expected to depart for Tunisia from Kenneth Kaunda International Airport today and arrive in Tunisia tomorrow ahead of the midweek clash. UFC is in group D, together with Etoile of Tunisia, Mbabane Swallows of Etswatini, formally Swaziland and de Agosto of Angola. The Group D failed to produce a clear winner in the first round of matches with similar 1-1 draws in matches played in Ndola and Luanda on May 5.