A 35-man Kenya Simbas squad for the Rugby World Cup qualifiers is slated to be announced on Sunday after the final trials at the RFUEA ground. Head coach Ian Snook and his assistant Murray Roulston are pleased with the first trial last weekend and have hinted on the possibility of having some new faces in the final squad. Snook said he is delighted with the intensity and physicality he saw last weekend. “Several new faces played well and we will monitor them again on Sunday. Of course the calibre of players we have in the provisional list will give us a selection headache on who to choose,” he added. Snook expects the final trials to be free-flowing with a minimal error rate from both sides. “We have passed the message across on what we will be looking for and we expect a competitive game from both teams before we make the final selections,” added Snook. Homeboyz coach Paul Murunga and KCB coach Curtis Olago will handle Team Red which will feature Kenya Simbas vice captain Darwin Mukidza, France-based lock Simon Muniafu, Martin Owila, Jacob Ojee, Nato Simiyu and Samson Onsomu among others. Team Blue, under coached by Kabras tactician Charles Cadovillis and Impala’s Frank Ndong, will have Curtis Lilako, Peter Waitere, Moses Amusala and Dalmas Chituyi in the forwards with Israel Soi, Vincent Mose, Dennis Muhanji and Felix Ayange the pick of the backs. The trial will be played in four phases of 30 minutes each, starting at 2.30pm. The Simbas first assignment will be Elgon Cup match against Uganda on May 26 in Kampala. Kenya Simbas journey to the 2019 Japan World Cup starts against Morocco in an Africa Gold Cup clash that will double up as the qualifier on June 23 in Casablanca, Morocco. The Simbas will host Zimbabwe in Nairobi on June 30 before again hosting neighbours Uganda on July 7. The chase for continental supremacy will resume on August 11 when the Simbas host Tunisia in Nairobi. However, their away clash against Africa Gold Cup champions Namibia on August 11 will perhaps decide Africa’s second representative to the 2019 World Cup after South Africa.