NASA leader Raila Odinga’s move to deny his two co-principals slots in a 16-member committee to steer national dialogue has sparked fresh revolt within the opposition outfit. Raila sidelined ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Weteng’ula when nominating seven of 14 members to the committee co-chaired by lawyers Paul Mwangi and Martin Mwangi. Wetang’ula’s aide Mandu Mandu yesterday told the Star neither his boss nor the other two NASA co-principals were consulted when coming up with the list. “Of late, there is no consultation among the four NASA partners. The matter is between the two leaders – Raila and (President) Uhuru,” Mandu said. This is despite Raila insisting yesterday during Labour Day celebrations at Uhuru Park that NASA remains united. The relationship between Wetang’ula and Raila has been shaky since the Ford Kenya leader was pushed out from the Senate Minority leader job by ODM senators. Also Wetang’ula and Mudavadi relationship with Raila has been at stake after skipping the much-hyped NASA leader’s swearing on January 30 as the People’s President at Uhuru Park. Read:Uhuru, Raila appoint advisors to steer unity talks Lawyer Paul Mwangi represents Raila while Martin Mwangi represents President Uhuru Kenyatta in the talks meant to spearhead the realisation of duo’s pact to unify the country through the ‘Building Bridges Initiative’ unveiled on March 9. The ODM leader donated one slot to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka by nominating Makueni Woman Representative Rose Moseu to participate in the 16-member dialogue committee. However, the Star has learned Wiper was not consulted and Moseu was not aware of Raila’s plan to bring her on board. “It is not that the party met or names were flouted. I’m not aware whether Moseu was consulted, but on Monday when we were having a meeting on the emergency caused by floods, she accepted her nomination,” Wiper deputy leader Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said. Kilonzo said Moseu told him the nomination caught her by surprise. “She was of the view Wiper, through the chairperson, must have nominated and forwarded her name. I think there must have been consultation, although I can’t tell at what level because her name cannot appear there by accident,” he said. Raila’s confidants in the committee are his political strategist Adams Oloo , Busia Senator Amos Wako, Morompi ole Ronkai, Florence Omose, Saeed Mwanguni and Bishop Zecheus Okoth. “We as Wiper and Makueni leaders have absolute faith in Moseu to to steer this process, especially being a church leader and among the faces of women in the team,” Kilonzo said. Uhuru’s nominees include the former Gema chairman Bishop Peter Njenga, Kisii Council of Elders chair James Matundura and his Kalenjin counterpart John Seii. Others are Bishop Lawi Imathiu, Samburu Woman Representative Maison Leshomo, Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji and Agnes Kavindu. The 14 advisers will work under the direction of the Building Bridges Initiative secretariat, which is headed by Ambassador Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. Also Read:Senator Malala protests exclusion of youth in Uhuru-Raila peace team Click here for the latest political news