Shabana FC will sign five players to reinforce the side ahead of the second round of the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) national Division One league matches. Coach Andrew Kanuli said he has already identified their five targets including a goalkeeper, a striker, a defender and two offensive midfielders. “We want experienced players as we push for push for promotion to the National Super League next season,” added Kanuli. The club has been boosted by the return of veteran striker Justine Monda and Steve Ogati who have been out for two months. Kanuli spoke after the team beat Eldama Ravine-based Poror Mote 3-0, thanks to Michael Otieno, Dennis Ongeri and Oscar Oketch’s goals at Cardinal Otunga High School, Mosocho. “We concluded the first leg with 28 points. In the second round, we are targeting 33 points. We want to dislodge leaders Eldoret Youth from the summit,” added Kanuli. Former Shabana chairman Jared Nivaton, who graced the match donated Sh100,000 to the players. He promised to fully sponsor the team if they qualify for the NSL. “Our target is to be in the Kenya Premier League by the year 2020. If you qualify to the NSL, I will buy the team a bus and put all players and technical bench on salary. You have faced a lot of challenges in the third tier league and I want to thank you for the sacrifice,” he added. Nivaton has also rented a club house for 16 players and it will be ready by next month. “The house is being furnished and should be ready in June,” he told the players. Kanuli promised that the team will qualify to the NSL. “In the second leg, we shall play all the big teams at home and we want to pick maximum points. I want to assure fans that the boys are determined to qualify to the NSL,” he added. At the same time, Zone ‘B’ log leaders Eldoret Youth finished first round unbeaten after edging out St. Joseph’s Youth Academy 1-0. In other matches played over the weekend, Transfoc beat Silibwet 4-0 while Nyakach suffered 0-1 defeat at home against Timsales. Bungoma Super Stars and Kisumu Hot Stars played to a 1-1 draw as Bondo United edged Raiply 2-1 in another game.