The High Court yesterday temporarily barred the Registrar of Trade Unions and the Teachers’ Service Commission from deregistering Wilson Sossion as Knut secretary general. Employment and Labour Relations judge Maureen Onyango certified the matter urgent. She ordered the Registrar of Trade Unions, the TSC and Knut deputy secretary general Hesbon Otieno to file their responses before May 9. The case will be heard on May 10. “A temporary prohibition is issued barring the respondents from registering, appointing, recognising, putting or placing any person as Knut secretary general in place of Sossion, pending the hearing of the application,” the judge said. She also restrained Otieno or any other person from acting in the place of Sossion as Knut secretary general. The order is with respect to performing any functions conducted by the secretary general. The TSC and registrar were barred from validating Sossion’s suspension as secretary general on April 30. Sossion moved to court through lawyer James Orengo after his suspension. Read:Sossion stays put, forgives 'enemies' plotting his removal from KNUT He was replaced by Otieno following a National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, where 22 against two members voted in favour of a motion to discuss Sossion’s conduct. In his application, Sossion said on April 30, a special NEC meeting was convened by him to discuss an agenda whose notice had previously been given. He said a rogue section of members illegally, irregularly and unlawfully passed a motion to suspend him as the Knut secretary general. On the same day, Sossion says at a subsequent meeting of the National Advisory Council (NAC), the decision to suspend him was quashed. The suspension was declared illegal and unprocedural. The council resolved that he should retain his position as well as that of nominated MP. “Despite the decision of a national advisory council quashing the unlawful motion, Otieno has purported to hold himself out and he is reportedly acting as the secretary general,” Sossion said. He further claims he is apprehensive that the Registrar of Trade Unions and the TSC may purport to act upon the unlawful motion and deregister him, to the detriment of the union and its members. Orengo said there is a real threat of anarchy being fomented within the union to the detriment of its members. If removed as the secretary general, Orengo says Sossion’s functions as the spokesperson of the union will be usurped. This would have serious consequences and repercussions on the union and its members, the lawyer said. “The reckless members should be checked and nipped in the bud instantly,” Orengo said. Alao Read:Stop plans to oust Sossion, Atwoli asks State Click here for the latest political news