A Nairobi court on Friday blocked prosecution of two brothers in a convoluted case involving the estate of their murdered brother. They were accused of attempting to defraud their brother’s estate of Sh700 million. They were accused by their sister-in law, the widow, who is charged with the killing. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi terminated the case against Kuldip Sapra and Ashman Sapra. She said there is a pending succession dispute at the High Court over the same. While rejecting the fraud case against Kuldip and Ashman, the magistrate said he cannot conduct a parallel trial over the estate of Yogesh Sapra. The same case is being handled by Justice Aggrey Muchelule of the Family Division at the High Court. widow on murder charge Andayi faulted the office of the DPP and the police for starting the fraud case against the two brothers based on a complaint filed by their sister-in-law Nisha Sapra. She did not respond to the pending High Court succession cause. Andayi said Muchelule has issued a temporary grant to Kuldip and Ashman to administer the estate of Yogesh. He was allegedly killed by his wife Nisha in 2008. The magistrate said being given letters of grant does not mean taking over the estate. Nisha has been charged with the death of her husband Yogesh. The case is slated for August 27. The magistrate said the case was filed maliciously for extraneous purposes, not intended to achieve justice for Yogesh. He said the criminal case was intended to circumvent the High Court. Kuldip and Ashman told the magistrate the Succession Act does not allow any murder suspect to inherit the estate of the person they are accused of killing. Nisha has not filed evidence in the pending succession case. Nisha’s three children have written to the High Court and magistrate’s court, saying they have no issue with their two uncles administering their father’s estate. Andayi said the family court, just like the criminal court, has inherent powers to nullify any orders irregularly issued if so proven. Click here for the
latest political news