It has now emerged that a woman who accused Olive restaurant Hotel in Nairobi for mistreating her while breastfeeding her baby was lying. CCTV footage shows the woman only identified as Betty suckling her baby while having her meal at the hotel. The footage as availed by the hotel's management does not show Betty being ordered to feed the baby in the washroom as earlier alleged. According to the management, Betty entered the hotel at around 12:38 pm and placed her order within a minute of sitting. Her food was delivered five minutes later. Read; Women protest nursing mum’s ordeal at hotel About 25 minutes after being served, she begins to feed her baby and later on a waiter gestures at her. Alex Maina and Sylvia Njoki who are part of the hotel's management said that the two engaged each other for about 30 seconds after which there was a moment of eminent laughter and a smile from Betty. "Betty proceeded with her meal and did not leave the hotel as alleged. She finished her meal way after 1:30 pm after which she asked for a glass of hot water, paid her bill and left," said Maina Maina said allegations of the woman being ordered to breastfeed her baby in the washroom remains a mystery to them. "We are still surprised by the false and fabricated angle adopted in the petition presented to us on Tuesday last week by various lobby groups," reads part of the statement. The surveillance footage which was played at the hotel, confirms that Betty was able to breastfeed her child. A waiter is also seen approaching her table and holding a conversation. It was, however, difficult to tell what was transpiring because the footage captures the waiter from behind. Njoki said the video had not been edited but the protest held on Tuesday last week has affected their business. The hotel's Lawyer Martin Njiru said all they want is fair representation. "We would like to meet the said mother because until now she has not come out to be able to verify the said claims," he said. The restaurant has since apologized and vowed to provide a room to cater for breastfeeding mothers to avert such incidences. On Tuesday last week, a group of women staged a 'nurse-in' outside the hotel in protest of the shaming incident. The demonstration organized by women-led organization among them HER-VOICE and Kenya Association for Breastfeeding made a peaceful procession from Freedom Corner to Parliament and eventually to the Olive Restaurant. It is alleged that a waiter from the said restaurant asked the woman to either cover up her baby or use the toilet to nurse. Click here for the latest political news