The government has formed a task force to determine why the level in Ndakaini Dam is abnormally low despite heavy rain. Water PS Joseph Irungu yesterday said the team will study management of the dam that supplies most of Nairobi’s water.  The task force has two months to file its report. Irungu spoke during a fact-finding visit to Ndakaini Dam in Gatanga, Murang’a. Irungu said the team will be headed by acting Water ministry Secretary Samuel Alima. The team will include representatives from the Athi and Nairobi water companies, the Water Resources Authority, the Meteorological Department and officials from Nairobi and Murang’a counties. Read: Hope as Ndakaini water level rises to 46%, rationing to go on Water Chief Administrative Secretary Winnie Guchu said the report will help in efficient running of other dams under construction.  They should not face similar problems, she said. “About 57 dams are in various stages of construction and will greatly boost water connectivity in the country,” Guchu said. The CAS said there have been concerns that the low levels are caused by negligence and abstraction or draining of water upstream of the dam. Guchu said, however, there is no evidence of seepage from the dam or abstraction and the delayed refilling is an act of nature. “We have established that the flow of water in rivers that feed the dam has been quite low, slowing the refilling,” she said. Guchu said the dam is receiving one per cent of water everyday and the Meteorological Department has confirmed it will rain until end of this month. Related: Water rationing to continue as Ndakaini Dam level remains low She said the water level in the dam should reach 68 per cent by month’s end. The water level has risen from 33 per cent to 48 per cent since the beginning of the rainy season. Guchu said the population in Nairobi is rising very fast and the government is only able to supply 66 per cent of the water required. She said the demand has been rising by more than 20,000 cubic metres per year. The Northern Collector Tunnel being constructed in Murang’a will be complete next year and will boost supply in Nairobi by 140,000 cubic metres daily. The government, Guchu said, has a plan to increase water and sewerage coverage to 80 per cent by 2022 and 100 per cent by 2030. MP Joseph Nduati said they want 10,000 cubic metres of water to be supplied to Gatanga people. He said the Athi Water Services Board is laying pipes to channel the water from the tunnel to Nairobi. “We support this dam, but if we do not get six per cent locally, then we will block it,” Nduati said. Click here for the latest political news