The handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader
Raila Odinga has caused confusion and suspicion within and between
Jubilee and NASA. No one really knows the content of their talks
before they announced they were burying the hatchet and working
together for the sake of peace and unity. The uninformed
talk involves a lot of rumour and propaganda, giving room to political
animals who want Jubilee to disintegrate. Fortunately, the
issues that brought together the President and Deputy President William
Ruto are beyond what we imagine. We need to appreciate those two
leaders are friends at a personal level, their friendship dating back
several years. So I can 100 per cent say there's no mischief in
the handshake and Jubilee supporters — more so those in Rift Valley —
should not worry. Mt Kenya region is a done deal. Since the two came
together in the run-up to the 2013 General Election and won, it was
clear to us in Mt Kenya that when Uhuru's term ends, the person who
will assume the mantle is non other than the Deputy President. This
arrangement still stands, and if you walk around towns and market
places in Mt Kenya, you'll realise residents have decided it's Ruto's
turn. Therefore, even if the handshake were to yield some sort of
political deal — which is very remote — the people from Mt Kenya would
still stand with Ruto, not Raila, as some propagandists claim. The people of Rift Valley shouldn't panic, there's nothing to fret about and, as they say, you can take that to the bank. Over the years, the DP has worked hard to build his career and he is where he is because of his determination, hard work
and ability to make friends. The DP should not be unsettled
by pessimistic voices
trying to plant seeds of division among
Jubilee supporters. He should keep his eye on the prize, while working
with the President to deliver the pledges in the Jubilee Manifesto. The handshake
between Uhuru and Raila is a good thing to ensure all Kenyans coexist. The focus should be on unity. No succession politics should be introduced. The writer is Woman Representative for Nyandarua county. She spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news