Kisumu MCAs want an immediate audit of county assets to prevent cartels from grabbing and selling them to unsuspecting clients. The ward representatives said the county government needs to establish the exact location of public facilities for effective management adding that some of the public facilities have been grabbed by cartels. Their call comes amid public uproar that few powerful individuals and brokers have grabbed public facilities such as community halls and water projects among others. Led by Railways MCA David Arao, the MCAs said county social amenities should be managed by locals and not individuals. Arao said cartels have taken over county property for selfish gains and asked Governor Anyang Nyong’o to ensure ownership is transferred to community. In a recent motion tabled by Arao before the assembly and approved by MCAs, the leaders are seeking the ownership of county projects to be fully owned by locals. “Residents should be allowed to elect those to manage the facilities in a rotational manner for effective management,” he argued. The Railways MCA further said land title deeds on which public projects are built should be transferred to county government. “We cannot allow a few selfish individual to enrich themselves through dubious businesses at the expense of thousands of residents,” Arao added. He also questioned why a few people have been allowed to collect money from public facilities without any action from the county government. Arao said for instance, Obunga community hall, which was constructed with public funds and is now in the hand of a family. “This facility was largely funded by CDF money under the leadership of the then Kisumu Town MP Ken Nyagudi in partnership with donors,” he said. “During my tenure as the manager at the CDF office in 2004-2-007 we allocated Sh500, 000 for the building of the facility. It therefore belongs to the community. The cartels who grabbed it must surrender it,” he added. Arao asked community to safeguard public facilities from cartels that are out to make them personal property. “We have cases where people donate land for the construction of public premise and immediately the work is complete they refused to hand over the title deed to community,” North Nyakach MCA Rashid Miruka said. He pointed out that powerful individuals have grabbed a number of facilities which has denied residents making it difficult for residents to access services. Miruka said stringent measures must be put in place to ensure locals fully benefit from public facilities. Manyatta B MCA Pamela Odhiambo said a water project in her ward has been grabbed which makes it difficult for locals to access water. Kolwa East Ward Stephen Owiti also raised concern over county projects that are allegedly in the hands of few people. “We want to remain on record in our tenure by ensuring that public premises are fully owned by citizens and not selfish people,” he said. Kisumu has in the past experienced cases of land grabbing where conmen sell non-existing land to more than six clients. The daring cartels mostly targets lands which the owners are far way or either dead to con unsuspecting clients. Some of the suspects have been arrested and taken to court. 