NASA
senators yesterday picked Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala as the Deputy Minority leader. Minority leader James Orengo, flanked by NASA senators at a press conference at Parliament
Buildings, said he was elected unanimously through consensus. Narok Senator Ladema ole Kina of ODM had expressed interest the seat that went to his ANC colleague. “We have
minutes for the meeting that we will forward to the Speaker to formally announce
to the Senate on change of leadership by NASA,” Orengo said. The seat fell deputy
minority position fell vacant following Orengo’s election as minority leader to
replace the Ford Kenya leader and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula in March. Malala and
Kina who were both present at the press conference said the process was fair
and done maturely. “I want to
thank my colleagues for electing me as the deputy minority leader. I’m happy
that the country is healing after the handshake. However, we will not allow the
handshake to compromise our oversight role,” Malala said Kina said, “I
thank NASA senators for conducting this exercise in a mature manner through a
consensus. I will continue discharging my duties as the Narok Senator.” Wetang’ula
and Turkana Senator Charles Malachy did not attend the meeting to elect Malala.
 The Kakamega senator has been serving on
the Speaker’s panel. Senator
Orengo (Siaya) also confirmed the approval of Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri as the
NASA senators’ parliamentary chair. “We have
agreed as NASA leadership in Senate that we will be having regular meetings in
a fortnight to discuss Senate issues, our issues and those on national,” Orengo
said. Meanwhile,
Orengo, cautioned Interior Cabinet Secretary against making unanimous decision
on matters security particularly his proposed directive to reduce security of
government officials including MPs by half. “Matiang’i
should stop making decisions in isolation of other government institutions
especially in the new dispensation. The issue of security is under the National
Police Service and his work is to deal with policy,” he said. Read: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Click here for the latest political news