Two women escaped death narrowly after extreme cases of gender-based violence in Migori county. In the first case, Dina Chacha Mosambi, a single mother of four was attacked by a panga and was chopped off her right hand. All fingers in her left hand were also cut off and suffered cuts on forehead and neck. Mosambi was attacked by a neighbour identified as Mahiri Koroso, 19, when she confronted him to call off a relationship with her class six daughter. The incident occurred on Friday last week and the lady is still fighting for her life at Migori County Referral Hospital in Migori town. Mosambi, who works as a sand harvester on river Tebesi said her livelihood has been cut off by the attack. "I just wanted to protect my daughter who was being sexually abused by the young man, whom I know very well, she said. Kuria East OCPD Ahmed Abdikadir said that the police have launched a manhunt for the victim, who is reported to have fled to Tanzania. At nearby St Joseph Mission Hospital, Irene Atieno, 30 the mother of four children is nursing two broken arms and three toes on her right leg after being attacked by her husband on Thursday night last week. Atieno who is still recuperating said she was attacked for speaking Swahili with colleagues at her workstation, Kokola Mining Company in Nyatike sub-county. "We work with colleagues from other areas of the country, and my husband has been uncomfortable when I talk Swahili to them. He thinks I was being seduced, she said. She said her relative who also works at the same firm Morine Achieng informed her husband Jacktone Abura of her talking in Swahili at work. "When I went back at home I was attacked repeatedly by my husband, I was rushed to hospital after breaking down and fainting in shock," she said. She said she only worked at the station for three months and was paid between Sh500-1000 per day. Her husband has gone into hiding. Migori county commander Joseph Nthenge said in both cases it took longer for victims to report the matter to police. In the case of Nyatike, the lady is yet to report to police as a victim which makes investigations to be hard, he said. Migori county director of gender Lillian Awinja said cases of gender in the county have been rampant, but he complained of victims not following up cases in court.  Click here for the latest political news