The primitive drama that played out at former Baringo South MP Grace Kipchoim’s funeral in
Mochongoi, Baringo, last Saturday was a new disgraceful low that must be condemned. Before cancer
cut her life short last month, Kipchoim was a boisterous woman, who defied
numerous odds to prove chauvinists and skeptics wrong. She was a
notable peacemaker, a trailblazer in her own right and an outstanding example
of how sheer determination can change destinies. She was an ordinary woman who
did extraordinary things. She won her
parliamentary seat in political jurisdiction dominated by men, and defended it
while still in hospital. Grace’s peacemaking efforts among her immediate
political dominion were iconic and productive. Turning her
funeral into a theatre of unabashed name-calling was, therefore, dishonourable
to the extreme.  Ideally, her funeral ought to have been a celebration of
the life of a woman, who had become an emblem of triumph in the face of endless
setbacks. Clearly, a
number of leaders at the funeral had no intention of mourning Grace. Theirs was
a political scavenging mission meant to humiliate Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. The parade of
choreographed speakers who attacked Senator Gideon one after the other, was, to
say the least, such a despicable and childish pantomime. The sycophancy
displayed by the name-calling ilk at the funeral was as sickening as it was
detestable. In fact, I am not sure if the intended outcome of the chorus of
mean words spewed at the funeral ended up working in favour of the presumed
beneficiary. Where, pray,
was the sense of occasion of those who chose to hijack a funeral event to
settle political scores? In hindsight,
the indecent conduct at Grace’s burial smacked behaviour uncharacteristic of
the polite society leaders should aspire to. It was a terrible example to
aspiring politicians and an aberration to the respect due for our dear
departed. Being, as she
was, a peace-loving leader, and given there are deliberate ongoing efforts — championed
by no less than the President — to make Kenyans more tolerant of each other,
there is no way Grace would have entertained the shameful sideshows that ensued
at her burial. The tension
and hatred that pervaded the air did not in any way represent what Grace stood
for. Other than
taking time to ponder over a life prematurely cut short by cancer, or simply
conveying condolences, no one had the right to upstage an otherwise solemn
occasion to settle a political score. Otherwise, this is the one funeral that could
have accorded the speakers a chance to extol the wisdom of early detection of
cancer and the need for taking preventive measures. The question
that lingers in my mind is whether those who hijacked this funeral were making
a statement on their avowed disdain for womenfolk, even in death. True, it is
not lost to any casual observer that 2022 political alignments have begun in
earnest. The squirming and general restlessness that has afflicted some
segments of our national politics is understandable but, nonetheless, not
justifiable at all. They say the
early bird catches the worm but by the same token, we should remember the worm
that stays late in its cocoon is the one that escapes the beak of the early
bird. Those already showing extreme edginess over 2022 should be reminded t it
is the voters who will ultimately decide. The politics
of name-calling and shouting others down belongs to the past. The time, thought
and effort quite clearly invested in choreographing the shouting chorus at
Grace’s funeral should instead have been deployed in preaching
brotherhood. Lesuuda is the
MP for Samburu West