And the award for best nominee goes to (…..) This was a week of notable nominations for those in the diaspora with Kenyan origins, from best actress nominee Lupita Nyongo for BET awards, to Deputy Governor nominee Miguna Miguna for Nairobi County. If you have watched the movie Black Panther, the best actress nominee does not come as a surprise. However, what was a black swan event was the deputy governor nominee. The black swan theory was popularised by Prof Nassim Taleb. It is an occurrence that is random, deviates beyond the norm, and is extremely difficult to predict. This theory was coined after the Australian black swan water bird. Prior to its discovery, everyone assumed that all swans are white. It is a metaphor for our limited knowledge and our unfounded confidence in that knowledge. A black swan incident is characterised by three features. One, it is an outlier. It occurs beyond the sphere of conventional expectations because nothing aforetime points to its probability; two, it carries an extreme impact; and three, we endeavour to rationalise why it happened, but only with the benefit of hindsight. The deputy governor nomination fits the black swan theory like a glove. First, there is nothing in the history of Governor Mike Sonko and Miguna that could have given us inkling this was probable. Granted, the governor had previously said he would nominate Miguna as his deputy, and even made good his undertaking by including him in the list of 22 candidates he was considering. However, given the choice adjectives they have had of each other, and the finality with which the nominee has previously stated his stand on working with the governor, nobody would have predicted this nomination. Second, this nomination portends to have quite an extreme impact. Sonko has admitted he needs help in fighting the deep state popularly known as cartels at City Hall. He is, therefore, persuaded that his nominee is the right man for this task. Others have interpreted this nomination as a political strategy to deflate any competition for those with presidential ambitions in 2022. Resultantly, there has been an abundant display of buyer’s remorse, including calls to impeach Sonko. Third, we place too much confidence in our tele-political analysts, who pervade our living rooms with their predictions and analysis daily. As expected, they have attempted to rationalise what this nomination means. But as the Law of Truth espouses, any event or idea loses its real meaning by the square of the distance from it, the size of it, and the time elapsed after it. Notwithstanding, there is no lack of hubris by these pundits. They persistently engage in talk of the known and the repeated; yet, if anything, our political landscape has proven to be dominated by the extreme, the unknown and the improbable. In their hubristic moments, they forget politics, like the free market economy, is an ecosystem nobody can run, fix, predict or regulate: That it cannot be centrally planned, controlled and managed more efficiently and rationally by a group of experts. We recognise these analysts are brilliant; for how else do they daily capture the imagination of millions of their attentive minions? But like all human beings, they have a built in tendency to think they know a little bit more than they actually do, enough to occasionally get the political calculation wrong. In economics, a nominee is a person or firm into whose name an investor transfers his securities and properties to facilitate transactions. Consequently, the nominee becomes the legal owner of the investor’s shares but trades according to the investor’s instructions. However, the investor retains his rights over the shares and receives dividends from the nominee. But most importantly, the investor’s assets are legally separate from the nominee’s liabilities so that, if the nominee becomes insolvent, the investor’s stocks are protected. Likewise, we democratically transfer our power to politicians to facilitate governance, but retain our rights in the Constitution. In return, we expect to receive dividends in the form of services. What is bizarre, however, is that we transfer power to a governor or President through the ballot, and inherently cede our rights on their choice of deputy because they run on a joint ticket. In the securities market, it would be absurd if your nominee selected another person or firm without your consent to have control over your affairs. But this is exactly the intellectual error we have made on our part and is the impetus for the black swan events that we periodically witness. I submit that to avoid the helplessness these black swan events bear on us, we ought to have the power to elect governors, the President and their deputies, thus giving all, the express mandate to perform their functions. Should one of them choose to resign midstream, they should pay all the costs of re-election. This way, we will not have to constantly pick up their costs of insolvency. If there is anything that socialism and the deputy governor nomination has taught us, is that central planning by boardroom ‘experts’ should be repudiated, and they should not have the power to select or influence who our political leaders should be. This is because although they are in authority, they do not know enough of what we collectively prefer. Unfortunately despite their limited knowledge, they are more advanced and advantaged at articulating what they think is best for us. They are also more likely to wear shiny black pointed shoes thus making their positions more believable. Finally, an unsolicited advice to those with nomination powers. If you give a crocodile the prerogative to choose the battle ground, it will choose a river or a lake. It does not matter how mighty or good a swimmer you are, it will definitely make a meal of you. Never mistake the map for the territory - Plato  Mugwe is a political economist