Eight
months after the death of six-year-old St Augustine pupil Jeremy Masila, justice remains elusive for his family. Masila was crushed to death by the bus of the preparatory school in July 2017. Coast traffic boss Emmanuel Okan said the child had been trying to pick his water bottle and bag, which fell through a gap in the floorplate of the bus, when he was killed. The boy's family and rights group Haki Africa want the principal of the school interdicted by the Teachers Service Commission. More on this: Probe launched after Mombasa school bus crushes pupil The ODPP instituted murder charges against five of the school's employees, including principal Sara Kessi. Kessi
was charged alongside Venant Mwasaru, driver Vald Mbadi, driver's
assistant Abednego Mwendwa and mechanic Charo Kazungo. They
denied the charges and were released on Sh1 million bond each. They said the charges were too strong and asked that they be reduced to traffic offences, an application which was dismissed. The case was adjourned several times, judge Dora Chepkwony
saying she was under pressure to clear election petitions which had
a time limit. Details: [VIDEO] St Augustine accident: Five staff oppose murder charges The
deceased's mother Elizabeth Masila said the pace of the case was unsatisfactory. Elizabeth, who works in Dubai and was absent during the burial of her son, said
she had expected major steps since the staff members were charged. "The principal is still heading the school despite facing murder charges," she said in an interview at Haki Africa's Mombasa office on Wednesday. “People
who caused the death of my son roam freely while he lies
six feet under. To them it is as if nothing happened. I feel I should take matters into my own hands. My
son died a painful death. They best they can do is get us justice." Elizabeth was of the view that Kessi should have been interdicted by the Teachers Service Commission. She
said her family's queries to  the TSC on the status of the principal have
not been answered. Haki Africa Coordinator Francis Auma threatened to hold “the mother
of all demonstrations” if the commission does not suspend the principal. It is time the TSC took action against the principal, Auma said, adding Kessi has worked there for more than 20 years and that "numerous incidents, including burning of dormitories, have happened under her watch". “It
is time for her to leave the school. If she does not step down within seven
days, we will mobilise parents and students to drag her out." Click here for the latest political news