Young Legislators from both the national and County assemblies have been urged to institutionalize the youth caucus. Speaking while addressing a side event for young legislators in the on-going 3rd Annual Legislative Summit, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja- who is the also the Chairperson of the Kenya Young Parliamentarians Association, noted that there exists no common front from which youth leaders among them legislators can address matters affecting the youth across the country. The same sentiments were echoed by the Chairperson, County Assemblies’ Forum and Kajiado County Assembly Speaker, Johnson Osoi who urged the county legislators to forge a working relationship with the Kenya Young Parliamentarians Association and other youth-oriented groups so as to improve capacity for both elected and nominated Members of the County Assemblies. Noting that young legislators are the vanguards of the youth agenda, the Chief Executive Officer of the National Youth Council Raymond Ochieng’ called upon the legislators to revamp the National Youth Council by amending the NYS Act. Read: Sakaja registers NGO to help youth, women He observed that the government had over the years failed to allocate adequate resources to the Youth Programs yet these programs would be instrumental in addressing the question of the ballooning youth unemployment rate in the country. “The Youth programs are not adequately funded. There exists a confusion as to which level of government should fund youth programs,” he remarked. He appealed for an audit into the implementation status of youth policies especially in regards to the access to government procurement adding though that though there were now laws in place with regard to this, there had been slow uptake due to gaps in the implementation of the laws. Nandi County Assembly Speaker Joshua Kiptoo, asked the legislators to Cascade and demystify the information about the Big Four Agenda to the citizenry. This he said would help them understand the policies and sectors under the Big Four and thus know which part to play in ensuring the success of the 4 priority agenda items of the government. Noting that many young people do not have adequate resources to undertake their project ideas, the forum resolved to petition the Governments to consider revising the fees required for one to access procurement opportunities. To this end, NAILAB’S Founder Samuel Gichuru committed to inject sh50 Million as seed capital to be accessed by young people who wish establish start-ups inform of hubs. Also read: Building bridges plan pointless without youths, Sakaja tells Uhuru and Raila Click here for the latest political news