NASA co-principal Moses Wetang'ula has described opposition chief Raila Odinga as ungrateful. He said Raila was already experiencing what he warned him would be messy and noisy. “The amusing thing is how Raila has sunk so low to engage in such cheap politics. You can actually see he is the only one defending the handshake which was between him and Uhuru (President Kenyatta),” Wetang'ula said. The Bungoma senator was responding to Raila’s remarks that the planned merger between Wetang’ula and his NASA counterpart Musalia Mudavadi to form one party was ethnically driven. Read : Nasa divorce will be noisy and messy, Wetang'ula warns Raila Raila spoke at Mungatsi Primary School in Busia county during the burial of Mama Margaret Orum — Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya’s mother-in-law. “If Raila continues telling lies about us, we will tell Kenyans the truth about him,” Wetang’ula warned him in an exclusive interview at his Nairobi town office yesterday. He said the ANC and Ford Kenya merger was unstoppable “The will and spirit are buoyant and we are headed in the right direction. We have given ourselves one year to be one strong party,” he said. The senator said the merger was expected to create a constituency where the masses can articulate their issues and push for the national agenda.  OBLIVION He also said NASA was rebuilding following lessons learnt in the last polls. “Our party Ford Kenya is the oldest part in the country with structures across the 47 counties. The two parties have elected leaders across the nation,” Wetang’ula said. “Raila is unhappy with our engagement between me and Musalia. It is really hurting him.” Wetang’ula said the leaders Raila is calling tribalists are the people who have invested the last 10 years supporting his presidency. “The team of the ANC and Ford Kenya committee of experts has given us the report with recommendations on the way forward and in one year ANC and Ford Kenya will be one party,” he told the Star. Wetang’ula said Raila does not respect NASA colleagues and his days in politics are numbered. “Through his actions, it is true he is heading into political oblivion,” he said. Wetang’ula said the opposition chief does not value sacrifices people have made to build his political career. “I advise Raila to go quiet since people in glass houses do not throw stones,” he said. More on this  : Nasa affiliates threaten to divorce Raila's party for 'marrying' Jubilee Click here for the latest political news