The government has said the deaths of 32 people following the Nakuru dam tragedy is regretted. Spokesman Erick Kiraithe said on Thursday that the ongoing rains have exceeded predictable expectations. He said that though the government had taken all precautions as advised by the weatherman, the magnitude of the rain water has exceeded what was expected. Kiraithe said the country had experienced a long drought period and government did not anticipate the rains will be accompanied by such heavy floods. "As a government, we have put more focus on renovating the existing dams for water preservation for up to four years after the rains." "We regret what has happened as a result of the floods especially the recent tragedy at Solai's Patel Dam," Kiraithe said. "Moving froward, we are taking every possible measure so that we don't see the situations we have seen." He said the experience of the current flood situation has brought with it "bitter lessons that warrant remedial actions". Kiraithe, however, said the government though takes responsibility, it is not to fully blame for the disasters that have happened. "We have deployed various institutions from the Interior ministry which are actively executing rescue operations across the country." He asked county governments to undertake an audit of all people living in areas prone to flash floods. Kiraithe said some dams like the Patel dam has not had enough supply of water for over four years, hence were likely to be breached. So far, 32 people have been reported dead after the dam burst its banks on Wednesday night, displacing over 2,500 families. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i, his Devolution counterpart Eugene Wamalwa, and IG Joseph Boinett are supervising rescue operations. Read: Death toll from Nakuru dam tragedy rises to 32 Kiraithe said after a comprehensive status report, the government will take care of the victims with a package that will alleviate the loss of shelter, property, and life. At least 113 people have died in the last two months and another 260,0000 displaced as raging floods wreak havoc across the country. Some 10 counties have been affected as weather experts warn of more heavy rains in an unusual departure from traditional weather patterns. An estimated 205 schools have closed in the 10 counties. Statistics show that Tana River has 71 schools affected, Garissa (49), Wajir (42), Baringo (5), Samburu (8), and Kisumu (15). Read: Death toll hits 113 as 10 counties flooded Click here for the latest political news