Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to drop the cases facing the Pangani six to demonstrate true forgiveness. Kalonzo at the same time praised President Uhuru for seeking forgiveness from Kenyans. On June 17, 2016, eight politicians were arraigned in court and released on bail for alleged hate speech after spending four days in the cells. They are former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama and MPs Junet Mohamed, Aisha Jumwa, Florence Mutua. Timothy Bosire, Moses Kuria, Kimani Ngunjiri, Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu. More on this: Pangani 6, Muthaiga 2 ‘earned’ time in cell Kalonzo on Saturday said he will also meet retired presidents Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki to discuss the political situation in the country. "I am ready to meet anyone including retired presidents Daniel Moi,  Mwai Kibaki and  Mama Ngina Kenyatta," Kalonzo said. The NASA Co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka also welcomed the spirit of the handshake, national dialogue and reconciliation in the country. Kalonzo was speaking during Wiper's two-day retreat at Lake Elementaita lodge in Gilgil. The Wiper boss, however, cautioned on the proposed constitutional amendment saying such changes must not be aimed at creating positions for individual leaders. Kalonzo said they should rather be used to advance unity, peace and development Read:Use Bomas Draft model to change law, says Kalonzo He noted that it was laughable that some leaders who were in the forefront in opposing constitutional reforms are the greatest beneficiaries of the Kenya constitution 2010. A section of Western leaders, however, differed Kalonzo stand on the constitutional amendments. NASA cco-principalsMusalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula said Kenyans have to be told first on where the changes should take place arguing that some changes can be done through legislation in the parliament. Addressing thousands of Kiminini residents during the homecoming of Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa, Wetangula said Kenyans should be told how the changes are to be made. "We must first of all sit down and agree on what is it that we want to change," Wetangula said. Mudavadi said it is too early to say the constitution should be amended while lawyers who are the experts have not given out the details on the changes. "People should stop pushing for constitutional amendments first but let the lawyers draft a question on the changes and give us details first,' Mudavadi said.  Click here for the latest political news 