Seventeen reigning world and Olympic champions will gather in Doha on Friday (4) to help kick off the 2018 IAAF Diamond League, which gets underway for the ninth straight year in the Qatari capital, and with it the chase for a piece of the series’ US$8 million prize money purse. But for the capacity crowd expected to turn out at the Qatar Sports Club track, no appearance will be as eagerly anticipated as that of Mutaz Essa Barshim, who will defend home turf for the first time not only as the reigning world champion, but as the 2017 World Athlete of the Year as well. He’ll face Majd Eddin Ghazal of Syria, the world bronze medallist last summer, German Mateusz Przybylko, the Birmingham bronze medallist, and Ukraine’s Andriy Protsenko who has a 2.40m lifetime best from 2014. Plenty of high flying is also expected in the women’s pole vault, the evening’s opening event, which includes the reigning world and Olympic champion Katerina Stefanidi of Greece and Sandi Morris of the US, who turned the tables on her long-time rival when vaulting to world indoor gold in March. Morris has topped 4.88m this season already while Stefanidi will be making her outdoor debut. Recently crowned Commonwealth champion Alysha Newman of Canada is also in the field. The most recent came last year when Olympic javelin throw champion Thomas Röhler wowed the crowd with a 93.90m Diamond League record, elevating him to second on the world all-time list. That long launch into the dark Doha sky also propelled the event into its role as one of summer’s major highlights. Two months later his compatriot Johannes Vetter supplanted him as the world No 2 after a 94.44m bomb in Luzern; the following month he took the world title in London. Both will be throwing on Friday, along with Czech Jakub Vadlejch, who’ll begin his chase for a third consecutive IAAF Diamond League trophy. Vadlejch was third in London last year. Hellen Obiri leads a strong field of Kenyans, which includes Lilian Rengeruk, the 2013 world youth champion and 2014 world junior 3000m silver medallist, and Margaret Chelimo Kipkemboi, the fifth-place finisher at the last year’s World Championships. Jenny Simpson, the reigning world silver medallist and Olympic bronze medallist at 1500m is also in the mix. The 31-year-old Boulder, Colorado-based runner has run well this season, most recently with a solid 9:16.78 two mile performance at the Drake Relays. The women’s 100m features a showdown between Elaine Thompson and Dafne Schippers, the Olympic 100m and world 200m champions, respectively. Jamaica’s Thompson will be looking to shake off a fourth place finish in the Commonwealth 200m while Dutchwoman Schippers will be making her outdoor debut. Murielle Ahoure of Ivory Coast, the world indoor 60m champion, and her teammate Marie-Josee Ta Lou, the London double dash silver medallist, will also be making their first outdoor starts. The men’s 400m features Isaac Makwala and Baboloki Thebe of Botswana, the Commonwealth Games 1-2. Makwala dominated the race in Gold Coast, clocking 44.35, topping his 21-year-old compatriot by 0.74. Look out for London 2017 silver medallist Steven Gardiner, who’ll be making his first full-lap appearance of the year. He twice set Bahamian records at 400m last year, 44.26 and 43.89, and opened this season with a 19.75 national record in the 200m. Qatari fans will be backing Abdalleleh Haroun, the 2017 world bronze medallist. The evening’s final sprint battle, the men’s 200m, pits Turkey’s world champion Ramil Guliyev against Olympic silver medallist Andre De Grasse of Canada, 2017 Diamond League champion Noah Lyles of the USA, and world bronze medallist Jereem Richards of Trinidad and Tobago. The biggest surprise could come from Omar McLeod of Jamaica, the world and Olympic champion in the 110m hurdles who’ll be making an intriguing switch. Harrison back to defend A year ago, Kendra Harrison broke a bone in her left hand while warming up in Doha, but went on to win the 100m hurdles anyway. Obviously, the world record holder is difficult to stop. She arrives with a pair of fast times under her belt already this outdoor season --wind-assisted 12.40 and 12.37 runs-- and with a new title, that of world indoor 60m hurdles champion. She’ll face reigning Olympic champion Brianna McNeal (nee Rollins), 2008 Olympic champion Dawn Harper-Nelson and Doha Diamond League meeting record holder Jasmin Stowers. Meanwhile, Olympic champion Kerron Clement heads the field in the men’s 400m hurdles, taking on Yasmani Copello of Turkey, the London silver medallist, and Kyron McMaster of the British Virgin Islands, the 2017 Diamond Trophy winner. Clement and Copello will be making tseason’s debuts while McMaster rides the momentum that swept him to the Commonwealth title last month. Once again, Sandra Perkovic leads the field in the women’s discus throw, beginning her campaign for a seventh Diamond Trophy. She’s already illustrated strong form with an early-season 69.13m, the best in the world this year. She’ll take on Australia’s 2009 world champion Dani Stevens who last month won her second Commonwealth title, Cuba’s Denia Caballero, the 2016 Olympic bronze medallist who beat Perkovic to win the 2015 world title.