It’s difficult to envy President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga in their knee-jerk effort to jump-start what’s already branded a personal escapade that divorces inclusivity in search of unity in Kenya. Sceptics had a knowing grin when ‘Team Building Bridges Initiative’ was unveiled on Sunday. They made fun of the team, which lacks inclusivity on the basis of regional, ethnic, religious, gender, age and professional balance. They say it lacks bipartisanism to generate broad support. Muslim clergy and youths are furious. We can argue that ‘inclusivity’ means a weird structure; that the mandate of the ‘team’ is limited to ‘advising’. However, a profile of the 14 advisers shows a proclivity towards aged men and few women, and regional bias in favour of Central and Nyanza. It’s just short of a glorified elders’ council, which narrows the team’s remit to a talking shop on inter-ethnic relations, a mandate of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission. Is the emphasis the past, the present or the future of Kenyans? The team’s qualifications compromise independence and professionalism at the altar of region, age and political correctness. Its composition confirms widespread fears that the two leaders have embarked on a ruse to discharge themselves of what ails Kenya rather than prepare the country for a frank, dispassionate all-inclusive national dialogue as proposed by NASA. It is curious the terse announcement branded the 14 individuals as a ‘team’ of “advisers”, working “under the direction” of a two-man secretariat of Martin Kimani and Paul Mwangi. They are not experts. It is not a committee or a task force, and it is not backed by any law. It is a mysterious team. Indeed, it does nothing but ‘advise’, which lacks a timeframe. It is not stated under what law the secretariat derives its mandate from to publish the list since it is not gazetted. In Kenya, gentlemen’s agreements are never honoured, and having a process of this magnitude untethered by law is extremely naïve and dangerous. Without tethering the handshake in law, reneging is easy but has the potential to cause worse conflict than that which it seeks to prevent. The law is not always fail-safe. It can be flouted, but it is a more solid fallback than verbal guarantees. It can be argued the team is a means to an end, a stopgap to determine the roadmap to an all-inclusive national dialogue. But this is superfluous speculation because two months on, nothing stops Uhuru and Raila from outlining the details of the deal and the team’s mandate other than the fear of being caught using Kenyans to secure future personal comfort. Kenyans are stuck in superstitious speculation. If means justify ends, you do not acåΩhieve inclusivity starting off with exclusion. The absence of the team’s mandate is an aching sore that will unravel its workings. Cynics are excused for tagging the team a smokescreen to hype movement without motion, camouflaging lack of commitment by either partner. And that’s the curse of personalising a national agenda. Uhuru and Raila are ignoring their flanks at the expense of the success of the initiative. They ought to know that despite their handshake calming an extremely agitated Kenya, the team formation is in the midst of a soiled political environment: The handshake heightened hope and suspicion in equal measure and ignited supporters and skeptics from both sides of the political divide. But it is the structural defects in the appointments that worry most. The team exists without consensus in NASA and Jubilee on this project. It will be exposed to a sceptical base. Then there’s naivety in lack of rules of engagement between the 14 high-status personalities taking instructions and being answerable to a two-man secretariat. There will be competition between personalities in the two-tier system, whose loyalty and access to their bosses is equally guaranteed to be counterproductive. It’ll expose the nudity of this cultish project. Without terms of reference, the team will aimlessly trudge along or trample on mandates of existing institutions, thus distorting coordination; pursue isolationism or; implode under its own weight of divided political loyalties. External agitation from those excluded could stymie and stigmatise the team’s operations.  