UNESCO has certified Luhya's famous Isukuti dance to be recognised internationally as an 'Intangible Cultural Heritage'. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) said the dance needs urgent safeguarding. Isukuti dance, popular among the Isukha and Idakho sub-clans, becomes the first Kenyan dance to get global recognition. The two sub-clans occupy Ikolomani and Shinyalu constituencies in Kakamega county. Dr Evangeline Njoka, director general UNESCO-Kenya, presented the certificate of inscription of Isukuti dance to Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Monday. The certificate was issued to Matende and Emachina Isukuti groups during the national UN World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at the Bukhungu stadium. The event was marked with the theme: "World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development." In 2014, the Kakamega county government sponsored Matende and Emachina Isukuti groups to tour France to showcase their talent at the UNESCO headquarters. Director of Culture Kiprop Langat and Kakamega county commissioner Abdirazzak Jaldesa attended the event. Sports and Heritage CS Rashid Echesa said recognition of Isukuti dance by UNESCO means that the indigenous dance has unique appeal and deserves universal attention as a tourism treat. He announced that the government will spend Sh1 billion this financial year to
upgrade and market two heritage monuments in each of the 47 counties. The project is dubbed "Kenya through 100 monuments". The CS said that culture should serve as a fortress against a hostile environment and probable inhalation by rival societies. Oparanya said that his administration was committed to unity in diversity as a key catalyst to building strong bridges for dialogue, peace and sustainable development. He urged communities in Kakamega to embrace progressive culture and discard outdated practices that are counter-productive to social cohesion and societal values. The governor gave Sh100,000 to Matende and Emachina Isukuti groups. The national government paid out Sh400,000 to the two dance groups. Click here for the latest political news