Labour Day festivities aside, it is that time of year to critically look at our labour market as a country and identify avenues for sustainable growth and development. With an exceedingly youthful population at our disposal, opportunities for economic growth, spearheaded by a skilled and qualified workforce, are rife. However, the task before us is ensuring that the potential of our youthful population is indeed tapped into. Traditionally, it was expected that school going youth would complete their primary, secondary and tertiary education and seamlessly be absorbed into the labour market. Further, it was expected that only a select choice of courses on the tertiary level would guarantee a successful career. While this strategy is not without its merits, it is arguable that it may not be as applicable today. Indeed, it is arguably resultant of this strategy that certain careers are currently oversaturated, while others are facing a labour shortage. This leaves us in an awkward position whereby skilled professionals are underutilised – exemplified in the legal and medical professions – while in other segments of the market skilled workers are unavailable. Inevitably, unemployment is on the rise on one hand, and increase in importation of skilled labour on the other – an indicator that our home grown labour force is missing in action. It is with this in mind, arguably, that the policy to grow technical vocational and education training (TVET) programmes in Kenya was adopted, as a means to bridge the skills gap currently facing our workforce. The policy to find and make use of measures that will bridge our skills gap with internal resources is commendable. Particularly, this will act to reduce the costs of labour – which is indeed likely to rise if over-reliance on foreign experts is to become a trend. However, that being said, it is proposed that further action would be required than the above considered. Support of TVET programmes ensures that ingrown specialised labour is introduced into the market – thereby plugging a deficit on ingrown technical skills. This suggests that the move was reactionary – plugging an existing deficit rather than preventing the occurrence of one. This presents an opportunity to higher education institutions, public and private sector employers, and the labour force alike. On the higher education institutions front, it is up to these institutions to continually update their offerings based on the skills required by the labour market. This will ensure that graduates are meeting a particular skills demand. In order to achieve this, a concerted effort is required from public and private sector employers to ensure that useable data exists to enable higher education institutions offer programs that are actively required in the job market. Consequently, our human capital potential does not remain unused, thereby directly increasing productivity and growth of the labour force.  