Three million Facebook users had their most intimate details exposed as a new data protection scandal hits the social media platform. In the latest of a string of security breaches, a report from New Scientist has revealed a popular personality app insufficiently protected the 'anonymous' data of participants. The quiz, called myPersonality, collected highly sensitive data, including psychometric test results that revealed how neurotic or extrovert an individual was. The investigation found the information was poorly protected for four years and gaining access to was relatively easy. myPersonality has now been suspended as one of 200 apps Facebook has removed from its social media platform. Related: Data scraped from Facebook, Twitter to build 48 million people profiles Also read: Cambridge Analytica denies using 87 million Facebook users' data Run by the University of Cambridge, the myPersonality site was founded in 2007 and allowed users to take real psychometric tests and obtain their results instantly. The leaked information gave access to the 'Big Five' personality scores of 3.1 million users. These have been defined as openness to experience,  conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism - sometimes abbreviated to OCEAN. "This type of data is very powerful and there is real potential for misuse," Chris Sumner at the Online Privacy Foundation told New Scientist. More than six million people took part in the study overall, and 40 per cent of these participants decided to share their Facebook profile information with the researchers. According to the University of Cambridge's website for the myPersonality database, this resulted in "one of the largest social science research databases in history. "This data was anonymised and samples of it were shared with registered academic collaborators around the world through the myPersonality project," according to the site. As a result of the leak, 22 million status updates from over 150,000 users could be seen. It also showed personal data such as age, gender and relationship status from 4.3 million people. Questions have been raised over the robustness of the anonymisation technique employed by the personality quiz. After completing the test, each user was ascribed a unique ID which brought together all their information. This included age, gender, location, status updates and the results of the personality quiz. With all the information tied to one ID, finding the name of the person and demolishing anonymity could easily be achieved. "You could re-identify someone online from a status update, gender and date," said Pam Dixon at the World Privacy Forum. The database's website is now offline, and so are the men involved in the scandal. Click here to read the full story on Daily Mail Click here for the latest local political news