When the Kalenjins rustled cattle, they often looked out for the cattle egret which always meant there were cows not too far away. Spies were sent out and if they spotted the cattle egret, they then gave the cue to attack. The egret was very important link in the rustling business. They even had a proverb for it — “Mawendi ririat ole mami tuga” (“The cattle egret will not go where there are no cattle.”) And while the proverb has deeper meanings, the little white bird was often chased away so that it could not betray the position of the herd to the enemy. But the egret also played an important role eating the ticks that the cattle carried ,thereby keeping the herd healthy. This symbiotic relationship was necessary, but there was also the risk that the egret would betray the whole herd and leave everyone poor. The Kalenjins, therefore, had a very uneasy relationship with the egret, it was loved and loathed in near-equal measure. In many ways, the relationship is like that of government and the opposition. To the government, the opposition is the odius little nuisance that will pick out only the wrong things in the government. For the government, it is the necessary evil. The opposition is tasked (by law) to keep the government in check, and although the government doesn’t always appreciate their role, they are extremely important if we are to be categorised as a functional democracy. For a while, our opposition had set itself to remove Jubilee from power. They staged high drama, refusing to recognise Uhuru Kenyatta’s win and did everything they could to delegitimise his presidency. It was perhaps with the understanding of this that Uhuru decided to swallow his pride and shake hands with his arch-rival Raila Odinga. The handshake seemed designed to allow Uhuru to put his Big Four agenda into action and run it smoothly. It, however, relegated the opposition to a partnership with the government and such a relationship could easily turn into an unhealthy conviviality that could allow corruption to thrive.  UNITY VS UNANIMITY In his State of the Nation address to Parliament, President Uhuru seemed to further blur the role of the opposition by firmly establishing the handshake and profusely apologising for hurting anyone. It now becomes difficult for the opposition to stir up negative energy necessary to keep the government on its toes. In his speech, however, the President stated, “When he (Raila) and I met earlier in the year, we agreed to work together to strengthen the unity of our country. We hoped to emphasise then that collaboration comprises both competition and disagreement. We did not immediately solve all Kenya’s most pressing problems, nor did we see eye-to-eye on every proposed answer. It is important to emphasize that unity doesn’t mean unanimity.” As it is, there is no dissenting voice that could get things done well. Through his speech in Parliament, it is now quite apparent the handshake was done with the two principals expecting different outcomes. Uhuru wanted his Big Four agenda to gain national acceptance while Raila had his eye on constitutional changes. During his bid to become Nairobi governor, Miguna Miguna began his elaborate manifesto by quoting renowned Indian author Arundhati Roy in her book War Talk. She writes: “Our strategy should be not only to confront empire, but to lay siege to it. To deprive it of oxygen. To shame it. To mock it. With our art, our music, our literature, our stubbornness, our joy, our brilliance, our sheer relentlessness — and our ability to tell our own stories. Stories that are different from the ones we’re being brainwashed to believe. Another world is not only possible, she is on her way. On a quiet day, I can hear her breathing.” It is easy, therefore, to see from where Miguna draws his inspiration and doubtless, those words set the tone for his political philosophy of contrarianism that at times borders on nihilism. His recent spat with the government over his deportation and denial of re-entry into the country was only the culmination of a deeply acrimonious relationship with the government and remains unresolved to date. Miguna’s case, however, represents the extremes on both sides. Raila’s refusal to take part in the repeat poll as ordered by the Supreme Court and the subsequent rioting that resulted in voting not taking place in some parts of the country were yet other examples of the extremes of political contrarianism.  TAMING THE EGRET However, this week’s State of the Union address has further chilled political tempratures, with the President specifically calling for Kenyans to embrace one another as brothers. Usually, such moments lead to the revival of corruption and government intransigence. When the Constitution abolished the position of the the leader of Official Opposition, the Senate and House minority leaders seem unable to adequately fit into the role. These egrets seem tame. On the other hand, it should not be lost to us that our national politics marked by tribal constituencies and at the heart of the clamour for ‘inclusivity’, was the feeling of dominance of the political sphere by a certain ethnic formations. The tension last year was defined by the feeling the Executive, as currently established by the Constitution, cannot cure the problem of ‘inclusivity’, leading to the now-trending idea of minimum changes to the Constitution. But are the changes really able to cure our unique obsession with political power? Ever since the advent of multiparty politics in Kenya in 1991, our political discourse had been laced by strong tribal undertones and tensions along tribal lines. One of the reasons retired President Daniel Moi advanced in his opposition of multipartyism was that it would divide the country along ethnic lines. Perhaps he was right. Every electoral cycle has it own ethnically skewed conflict.  MULTIPARTYISM AND ETHNICITY The campains in particular tend to exacerbate ethnic tensions and even though the President has said no Kenyan should die in the process of political competition, it is quite apparent we will see bitter disputes in the next electioneering period, particularly if the election will not quite go ‘our way’. This problem is not unique to Kenya. In Cameroon, the Beti ethnic group of the Yaounde region, where the capital lies, felt dominated by migrants particularly the Bamileke, who took advantage of the opportunities available in the capital, much to the detriment of the minorities. In the advent of multiparty politics in Cameroon, the political tensions immediately took an ethnic dimension and Dr Nic Cheeseman ( 2015 ) commenting about it, says “…it illustrates the way in which multiparty politics brought potentially explosive disagreements over the relationship between territory, indigeneity and political power out of the shadows and placed them centre stage.”  WHERE OUR PROBLEM LIES At the heart of the clamour for ‘inclusivity’ is the increasing feeling that there are fewer economic opportunities available to communities. We live in a period characterised by increased awareness of the economic value of localised natural resources, which often brings into sharp focus our ethnic identity in relation to the resources. As such, communities feel they are custodians of the resources and should be exploited for their greater benefit as opposed to ‘outsiders’. This is the birth of the politicisation of resources leading to resource nationalism. While devolution in Kenya has tried to resolve this matter, there remains a feeling that many of the economic opportunities would be better ‘managed’ if we controlled political power, particularly at the national level. This really is what causes our acrimonious clamour for power and our heavily competitive politics. Post-handshake, we have managed to silence the dissenting voices, creating a state of détente necessary to build a feeling of inclusivity and belonging. It remains to be seen how well this will be done. The opposition, however, must remain vigilant in ensuring the government does not abuse the détente and allow corruption to thrive.   Sang is a writer and biographer, researcher, publisher and commentator on leadership and social issues