The National Youth Service saga is the latest of the many scandals that have
dogged President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration. In 2015, during his first term, Uhuru declared corruption "a
national security threat" and urged the DPP, the EACC, the Judiciary,
Parliament, the private sector and all Kenyans to "rally around the path
of transformation." A previous scandal at the NYS involving Sh1.6 billion led to the sacking of Principal
Secretary Peter Mangiti and the resignation of Devolution Cabinet
Secretary Anne Waiguru. In 2016, a special audit by the Auditor General found that the biggest
beneficiary of the scandal was Josephine Kabura Irungu, who received Sh1.3
billion through 11 companies. She was also to benefit from the attempted theft of Sh695 million. On March 9 this year, 23 people charged in the 2016 NYS scandal were
acquitted after the prosecution failed to prove that the suspects were culpable in the case involving a paltry Sh47.6 million, despite the sums involved in the scandal (see the Star, May 24). Read: How 23 NYS scandal suspects walked free Also Read: NYS hit by fresh Sh10 billion scandal MAIZE The other recent scandal involves the abuse of a government maize subsidy
that was aimed at bringing down the cost of unga, which had hit Sh150. Just days after Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri kicked off a grand house
cleaning at NCPB, an internal ministry report has smoked out 18 unscrupulous
traders suspected to have links with powerful people. The traders, allegedly masquerading as farmers, had been vetted and
rejected, rekindling memories of the maize scandal that rocked the country in
2010. Eight farmers, seven served at the Eldoret depot, will pocket Sh873.2
million. They have already earned Sh607,764,171. Read: Inside story of the NCPB maize scam RUARAKA There are also investigations relating to the payment of Sh3.3 billion for
land in Ruaraka, which is at the centre of an ownership row. The Ministry of Education and the National Lands Commission are on the spot
over the controversial payment of Sh1.5 billion to a company for the prime land
occupied by two city public schools. The payment is part of Sh3 billion budgeted for the purchase of 13.7 acres occupied by Ruaraka High School and Drive Inn Primary School. The Nairobi county
government claims it owns the land which a company known as Huelands has laid a stake to. Read: Ruaraka saga: City Hall says it’s public property, not private land OTHERS Last month, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Halakhe Waqo said that
they were investigating high-profile cases that would lead to the prosecution of
prominent personalities. The details, as usual, were not forthcoming. On Thursday, EACC issued a statement saying it had raided the offices
and residences of Kenya Pipeline Company officials who handled the Sh600
million flawed procurement of aircraft fuelling equipment. According to the
statement, the officers managed to retrieve several documents and records that
are crucial to the investigations. The investigations relate to an old case and it was not clear why the EACC
issued the update. In 2014, KPC tendered to deliver 60 hydrant pit valves — the
equipment used for refueling aircraft — for Jomo Kenyatta
International Airport at a cost of Sh600 million. This means a single hydrant pit valve was supplied at a cost of Sh10
million, almost 10 times the actual price of Sh1.5 million. Read: EACC sleuths raid homes of Kenya Pipeline officials in Sh600m flawed tender probe KENYA POWER Investigations are ongoing into the troubled Kenya Power
and Lighting Company’s tenders and over-billing of customers. On Friday, the Star reported on an internal audit at the electricity
supplier that has revealed massive irregularities in its procurement
department. The audit initiated by the management reveals how staff collude with
unregistered companies, or front proxies, to win tenders at Kenya Power. Read: Audit reveals massive irregularities at Kenya Power as MD vows action More: Inside the Kenya Power lawsuit for ‘overcharges’ Click here for the latest political news