Raging floods have ravaged the country, leaving a trail of death and destruction. Hundreds of families are depending of relief supplies, having been displaced from their homes. Amidst all this one woman — displaced from her home and depending on relief supplies — caught the attention of the nation when she boldly urged the government to supply flood victims with condoms. To many this sounded hilarious. Many wondered whether people ravaged by floods and living in makeshift structures had the energy or time to think about condoms. Why ask for condoms and not food? they asked. This brought into perspective how the public views condoms. Against the In the backdrop of this outcry, I would like to applaud Kilifi residents for being brave enough to appreciate the important role of condoms in HIV and STI prevention. It is documented that consistent and proper use of condoms is proven to be effective in the prevention of HIV infection by between 80 and 95 per cent. In 2014, Kenya developed the HIV Prevention Revolution Roadmap. It listed interventions that are biomedical, behavioural and structural in nature. It set key targets from 2015 to 2030, key being reduction of new HIV infections by 75 per cent by 2020 and zero new infections by 2030. The Kilifi case is an indication that the community is knowledgeable about the place of condoms in HIV prevention. That the call was community led demonstrates that proper sensitisation on the role of condoms has been carried out in this part of the country. This is what we would like to see — more citizens taking charge of their health and willing to take an active role. But this is not the case. The Kenya HIV Estimates, 2015, indicate that there are 77,647 new HIV infections and 35,800 HIV-related deaths per year. We need to reflect on this and ask ourselves, what role are we playing in reducing new HIV infections? Condoms are by no means the only HIV prevention strategy. It is one among the many proven strategies. With the advancement of science we have many more measures, including PreP and PEP. And yes, being faithful and practising abstinence. According to DHIS 2014, condom usage at last sex with a non-regular partner for men was at 72 per cent and women 55.5 per cent. The situation might still be the same as it was in 2014, or it might have improved or declined over the years. What is important is for us to recognise our personal role in our own health. The above percentages are not just numbers but represent people. Which side would you want to be counted at? The men and women who reported using condoms or those who reported not to have used them? In conclusion, demanding creation of HIV prevention services is really important. This can only happen when people know the services available, where to find them and their benefits. In Kilifi, the people knew the importance of the services but due to displacement needed access and that was done though request for an additional item (condoms) to the donation package. Lastly, I would like to applaud the government and all organisations which work at ensuring that we can access necessary health items. To the community health workers and peer educators who have sensitised us on the importance of prevention in health. And, most importantly, to every person who has taken the initiative to practise safe sex. Social scientist working in the health sector