Five people have died and more than 70 others hospitalized following an outbreak of unknown disease along Kerio Valley. Majority of the patients, who were complaining of abdominal pain, vomiting and passing watery stool with blood spots, are being admitted and treated on a daily basis at AIC Lodengo Kolowa in Tiaty Sub-county since April 10. “We admit an average of five to seven diarrhoea patients a day. Some are discharged the same day while we retain the serious cases,” the dispensary Nurse-in-charge Clara Lotuw told the Star on Friday. Lutuw attributed the outbreak to poor hygiene associated with residents drinking untreated stream water along Kerio River as well as lack of latrine and insufficient supply of treated nets causing rampant malaria outbreaks. “Some residents also meet in social joins to drink local brews that were being prepared using the dirty water,” the nurse said Lutuw said the most vulnerable are children below the age of 10 years, expectant mothers and the elderly, adding that the drugs and fluids supplied by the county government last week were running out of stock. “The number of patients are swelling as more patients stream in every day with related symptoms,” Lotuw said. The affected villages are Tilingwo, Chepelion, Nalukumong’in, Kipnai and Loiwat. Lutuw appealed for more drug and fluid supplies to ease the management of the condition, “I cannot say it is an outbreak as such but it could be hygienic-related condition” she said. Area leaders led by Tiaty Memebr of Prleiement William Kamket appealed to the county and the national government to step in urgently to address the ailment. “If five people are already dead it means the situation is so serous and it needs to be addressed before it kills more people,” Kamket said. He was backed by Kolowa Ward Representative Solomon Makal and Tirioko counterpart Sam Louren. The leaders also noted serous hunger sitiation owing to prevoious drought sitation that pound the area last year.It is in the same Lodengo village where an 80-year old granny Chepochebunyo Mekela seen and interviewed last year by the Satr. She was visibly weak and emaciated, clear indication she could succumb to hunger anytime soon. 'I have not eaten for four days, I need water to drink” Mekela said. She is among over 10,000 hunger-stricken Pokot residents currently in dire need of foodstuff.