Information and Communications Technology Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru says the ICT sector will play major role in achieving the country's Big Four agenda. Speaking yesterday at the launch of the Connected Summit 2018, Mucheru however said this is only possible with partnership from all stakeholders. He said the budget for the big four agenda is pegged at Sh4 trillion over the next four years and ICT will go a long way in fast tracking this. "The President is extremely keen to see ICT integration into the
operations of government. We have taken major steps in digitisation with
projects such as digital literacy programme, digital migration and digitisation
of lands registry," the CS said. Mucheru said increased ICT use will increase efficiency in service delivery and ensure there is a centralised procurement system. "We are witnessing the ICT sector in Kenya coming of age with companies like Cellulant recently attracting more than $45 million investment. This is a great milestone," he said. Mucheru said there are currently 600 million people in the digital market and Kenya needs to expand from local assembly to manufacturing and be able to manufacture at least 50 million devices for this market. He said the ICT ministry will ensure all public hospitals and clinics are connected with fiber during the digitisation process to facilitate ease of diagnosis and information sharing among health professionals irrespective of location. The CS said they have agreed said with the Law Society of Kenya to support of digitisation of records at the lands ministry instead of challenging it in court. "Technology changes so we have to stay ahead. The same will apply in agriculture. We have to register all farmers so that we can be able to use the information to predict the next harvest," he added. He said many Kenyans are creative and innovative yet the Nairobi Innovation Week is not enough to showcase all the hidden talent. Connected Summit 2018 will be held at Bomas of Kenya on October 22. The key theme is "How do we use ICT as an enabler to help us deliver the on the Big 4 Agenda?" Over the years, Connected Kenya Summit has been a unique platform for
ICT industry players, government, innovators and other stakeholders to
exchange ideas on how ICT can continue to be a catalyst for service
delivery to citizens. "The event is set to be the greatest meeting of ICT minds ever in the East African
region who will take part in 3 days of intensive engagements on ICT
support for the Big four agenda," he said.