A lobby group at the Coast has opposed calls from private security firms to be issued with firearms. Angaza Empowerment Network on Saturday said the government should first regulate private security firms registered in the country. Chairperson Derrick Ngumu said the government should further ensure  effective administration, supervision and  high quality trained staff at these private security firms before any plans to issue them firearms. Lats month the Kenya National Private Security Workers Union asked government to issue security guards working in high risk areas with firearms. KNPSWU Secretary General Isack Adabwa argued that they cannot be posted at banks or in terror-prone areas like the North Eastern region  to guard banks, institutions and other properties armed with only a club. He spoke during their annual general meeting held in Changamwe, Mombasa. But Ngumu told journalists that some security guards do not have capacity to handle firearms. He said some private firms conduct shoddy recruitment while looking for staff and majority of them pay a kickback to get the jobs. "The public is not impressed with some private security providers. There is need for a serious scrutiny to be conducted on this firms to ascertain whether they really train their staff to the standards required," Ngumu said. He said allowing a person who does not have the requisite training from the start to handle a gun will be exposing innocent Kenyans to risk. Ngumu added that they will be releasing their findings and report soon about private security firms. But Rauf Okal, the National Administrator of KNPSWU in his response said they have highly trained members and they wanted the government to listen to their plight. He said some of their issues will only be addressed once the Private Security Regulatory Authority, established in Act of 2016, becomes operational. "We want that body to become operational so that we can have a place to channel our issues," he said. He said after the April 27th press conference in Mombasa the government went ahead and appointed a CEO of the Private Security Regulatory Authority. "We are hoping that the board of this Authority will listen to some of our please," he said. Read:Parliament to decide if security guards should have guns Also Read:In the Pink Corner: Why trust insecure guards with guns?