Kenya Hockey Union men’s Premier League side Greensharks hope to scale to the top of the log when they battle a win-less and bottom-placed Nakuru Club at City Park Stadium tomorrow. Sharks, who are unbeaten in their five matches, have 13 points and trail Police, who are not in action this weekend, by two points. Sharks have a match in hand and a win against the struggling Nakuru side, will catapult them to the top of the standings with 16 points. Under the tutelage of Ben Owaga, Sharks have produced fine displays and their 4-3 win over Police a week ago, vindicated them as league underdogs. They play a side which is yet to pick a point in three matches and sit second from bottom. Prior to the match, Nakuru head coach Anthony Agesa hopes to stop the on-form Sharks. “We are confident we can stop them. Our goal is to attack from onset to the final whistle. We have played tough games and I am happy my boys have used the previous matches to improve their game. While they will be on a mission to go top, we will be seeking to lift ourselves from the base,” he said. The match will later pave way for unbeaten Butali Warriors, who are lined up against Parkroad Badgers. Butali have gathered 12 points from four matches and victory over the 10th placed Badgers will see them level on points with Police thus relegating them to the third spot, thanks to their superior goal difference. Meanwhile, bottom-placed Western Jaguars will be seeking to pick the first three points of the season when they host two visiting Nairobi-based clubs at their Kakamega backyard. Today, Jaguars face 2016 league champions Strathmore University Gladiators, who are currently ranked sixth. Tomorrow, the home side is set to play USIU-A Mashujaa who are eighth on the log. In the women’s tie, second ranked Strathmore University Scorpions hope to eclipse leaders Telkom who are not in action when they play Sliders today at City Park. Scorpions have nine points a similar tally to that of Telkom and victory will guarantee them the top spot with 12 points.