The 2018 MASK Prize Award Ceremony takes place at 2pm today at the Michael Joseph Centre, Nairobi. About 2,000 works were entered to the 2018 MASK Prize creativity competition by schools and young people from Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Nigeria, Cameroon and Mauritius. Kenya was represented by 46 different regions. More than 130 prizes will be awarded totalling Sh500,000. The prizes are supported by Mayfair Insurance, Mabati Rolling Mills (Kenya), Rivers Foundation (UK) and the Nobelity Project (USA). Winners were selected by a panel of judges, prominent creative professionals: KICD Creative Arts director Dr Jennifer Wambugu, poet and writer Tom Jalio, Head of Contemporary African Art of Sotheby’s Hannah O’Leary, entrepreneurs Alan and Susan Rivers and David Kimathi, children’s author Kaye Umansky, Saatchi Gallery Education Director Nadine Wright, US Capitol Center Deputy Director Nik Apostolides, filmmakers Christy and Turk Pipkin,  and MASK’s founder artist Alla Tkachuk. Six schools, selected out of 35, will receive the School Prize Sh25,000 each: Shree Cutch Satsang Swaminarayan Academy, Sipili School For The Deaf, Flying Kites Leadership Academy, COGRI Art Club, G-Thamini Organisation, and Deliverance Church CDC. This year, the MASK Prize also presents the ‘Best Creativity Teacher’ Award to John Salava from Kristina Academy, Diani Beach, and Esther Mukuhi from Darubini Arts & Talent Academy, Kiserian. And the ‘Business Leaders for Creativity’ Award to acknowledge businessmen and women who advance creativity education in Africa. This award goes to Dr Manu Chandaria, Alan Rivers, and William Pike. Dr Manu Chandaria has been visionary in the way he supports the creativity of young Kenyans. Understanding its importance, opening the MASK Prize Awards at Nairobi University in 2015, he said: “Survival in the 21st century will be difficult, and without creativity, it is not possible.” Entrepreneur Alan Rivers, who lives in London, has been a MASK Prize supporter from the start. “MASK Prize shows young people the joys of creativity,” he says. Alan also supports projects in Mathare slums. He travels from London specially to award the prizes. Without the support of William Pike and his newspaper The Star, which is the MASK Prize’s Founding Media Partner, the programme would not be so successful in reaching thousands of young people in Kenya and beyond. He offers The Star’s platform to promote creativity and the key role art plays in fostering our ability to originate in a ‘How to Look at Art’ column. There are no analogues of these two awards. We hope they will become a permanent feature of the MASK Prize. The Entrepreneurial Ideas prize this year goes to eight winners, the youngest being six years old. Not a ‘usual art contest’, the MASK Prize is proud to differ with its focus on entrepreneurial thinking and problem-solving. Among the winning ideas are solutions for turning mangoes into powder that solves a problem of mango harvest waste before it reaches markets, eco-seedling bag made out of sisal and banana stalk fibre that solves a problem of ‘plastic menace in Kenya’, and a hi-tech necklace with a microchip that detects health signs and communicates those to a doctor via an app. This year, the Entrepreneurial Ideas prize also acknowledges a number of fashion and accessory designers. The Award Ceremony will be covered by The Star and Citizen TV, a new Media Partner who joined the MASK Prize’s growing movement this year. For full information on prizes, visit http://mobileartschoolinkenya.org/2018maskprize.html The MASK Prize was pioneered by a UK education charity, MASK, in 2013 because ‘by 2020, creativity will be the top skill sought by employers’, according to the World Economic Forum. Creativity competence is now officially recognised by the Kenyan-basic school curriculum. If your Kenya-based company wishes to support creativity of young Kenyans, your future workforce, please contact MASK Prize on contact@mobileartschoolinkenya.org