A section of Rift Valley MPs have dared NASA leader Raila Odinga to vie against DP William Ruto in the 2022 presidential race. The legislators led by Oscar Sudi of Kapseret and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei sensationally claimed that Raila joined the government to sabotage Ruto. "We want him to instead vie for the top seat in the next elections and face defeat from Ruto," the legislator said. The MPs added that Raila is seeking power through the back-door after losing in last year’s polls. The ODM leader has declared no interest in the next presidential vote. Related: Raila: I’m not interested in 2022 contest Sudi said Nyanza MPs should stop commenting on Rift Valley politics as the region is fully behind Ruto. The MP took on Kisumu Senator Fred Outa over his recent remarks that the Kalenjin community should decide who to back between Ruto and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. "We want to tell leaders from Nyanza like Outa that they should keep off from Rift Valley politics." "We have been defeating their father Raila for the last three decades and he should be prepared to face Ruto and be defeated again," Sudi said. More on this: You won’t ruin our 2022 plan, Ruto allies tell Raila Also read: Stop using 'fake handshake' to sell 2022 agenda, Murkomen tells Raila The MPs spoke in Mosop constituency, Nandi county. They were joined by Julius Melly of Tinderet and Cornelius Serem of Chesumei. Sudi said the ODM leader should stop pushing for a referendum adding that "this is just Raila's scheme to gain power". "As the people of Rift Valley, we have said we don’t a referendum and we will not allow it. We know our candidate for 2022 will be DP Ruto." Also see: Declare stand on Ruto, Rift Valley MPs tell Uhuru Cherargei said although they welcomed Raila’s handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta, they "will not allow the NASA leader to mess up with Jubilee and sabotage Ruto politically". Serem and Melly said Gideon is no match for DP Ruto politically and that the Kalenjin community will ignore the senator come 2022. "He should stop imagining that he is equal to his father retired President Moi. Even if he puts on the elder Moi’s shoes, he would remain Gideon Moi with no impact on Rift Valley politics," Serem said. Related: MPs bash Gideon Moi over thwarted DP Ruto Kabarak mission   