Devolution is "no longer a baby", the President has said, and praised parties for progress made since its inception in 2013. Uhuru said on Wednesday that this system of government is now an established framework for governing and delivering public services. "Five years of establishing county government have taught Kenyans what they want out of devolution and how to get it," he said at Parliament while delivering his State of the Nation address. "Overall, the government is becoming more responsive to the needs of Kenyans, as we all hoped it would when we passed the new law." While highlighting his commitment to devolution, Uhuru said the government has surpassed the 15 percent threshold for resource allocation to counties. “From an allocation of Sh210 billion in the 2013/14 financial year, we now stand at Sh327 billion for the financial year 2017/18, an increase of 56 per cent in five years." He added that he recently signed Division of Revenue Bill, 2018, in which Sh372 billion was set aside for counties for  financial year 2018/19. It was reported in March that only 10 counties invested in development projects between July and September last year. This pointed to stagnant business during the election period when more than Sh20 billion allocated for growth activities was untouched. In addition, the recommended level for county salary expenditure was 35 per cent of total expenditure yet spending averaged 78.3 per cent. Before that, counties had complained about needing money and had said that their projects had stalled. More on this: 37 Counties skip development to pay salaries Also read: More county funds in revenue allocation law Uhuru also cited the allocation of Sh9.6 billion for managed equipment services, Sh5.2 billion for free maternity and Sh900 million for user fees. “Sh2 billion was disbursed to 11 counties from the Equalisation Fund to improve services,”he added. He also spoke of the Huduma Mashinani Programme that has taken services closer to the people. These services include the acquisition of ID cards and registration for NSSF and NHIF. Read: 15 key points from Uhuru's speech at devolution conference Regarding the Constitution, the President said the order is stable, secure and growing in strength. To support the constitutional progress, he noted the need to turn attention to the economy. More on this: State of the Nation: Support Big Four to boost economy, Uhuru tells lawmakers Click here for the latest political news