Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's wife Primrose Mbuvi has launched a city cleaning initiative dubbed "Operation Ng'arisha Jiji". Primrose said the programme is not supported by the county, but it's her own voluntary exercise. “Watu wangu Kabla nisahau...(my people, before i forget) earlier today my lovely wife Primrose Mbuvi officially launched her program "Operation Ng'arisha Jiji" a general cleaning exercise that shall cover the entire county. My mission as Governor is to completely transform and restore our city’s once glorious image,” Sonko wrote on his Facebook page. Through a video shared on the same platform, Primrose is seen driving new garbage trucks meant for the project. “I have volunteered to launch operation Ngarisha Jiji, not that Sonko is not able to do his job am volunteering to help in county cleaning,” Primrose wrote in the post shared by her husband. Read: Sonko takes garbage skips to Nairobi estates, hires youths Donned in the now familiar Sonko Rescue team uniform, Sonko's wife said that she will be volunteering to carry out the cleaning three times a week in all 17 sub-counties. The initiative duped "Operation Ng'arisha Jiji" was Sonko's initiative ran under his Sonko Rescue team during the pre electioneering period. “I have a team of experts that will help in garbage recycling, women should join and be empowered as this is a job opportunity that it is being created,” Primrose said. She has called upon well-wishers to support her by providing more machinery for the work ahead. Sonko has in the recent past been on spot over the menace of hawkers, traffic, potholes street children and garbage among others. He, on his part, asked city residents to be more responsible and not to litter the environment. “I want to remind every Nairobian and in general Kenyan citizens and organisations that waste management is a collective responsibility. We thus demand of you to stop littering or engaging in acts of illegal dumping. I also call upon you to promote and support public awareness for a cleaner Nairobi City, and, to actively participate in and support any cleanup activities organized in our wards,” Sonko said. Also read: Sonko unveils 60 garbage trucks after MCAs complain of filthy Nairobi Joab Ogolla, CEO of the dissolved Sonko Rescue Team said in January that they served as a reinforcement unit after the elections but now the county was stable to take over the mandate. “After the holidays, we have not resumed collecting garbage since we are restructuring and streamlining our operations and projects,” he said. On January 10, 2018, the governor would then devolve garbage collection to sub-county administrators in their zones. “The Nairobi City County Government will from today devolve garbage collection to the sub-county level to deal with the menace of illegal dumping and uncollected garbage,” read a memo from Sonko's office. The 17 administrators were to each control two trucks and have enough manpower for waste collection. Related: Sonko banks on new funding strategy to tackle city garbage  Click here for the latest political news 