Falling from power isn’t an easy thing especially when you are forced to adjust to things you were never used to. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula is living the experience. Since the Ford Kenya leader was stripped of the position of Leader of Minority in the Senate, Parliamentary staff have allocated him an office near Parliament police station where access is torturous sometimes. Because of the traffic jam around Harambee avenue, the Senator has been forced to step out of his car a few times to walk to his office, something that he wasn’t used to when his office was in the main Parliament building. With his guards also reduced, the senator has had to wade his way between cars and human beings and walk in the rain. ***** Is someone planning to harm Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko? We are told that some unknown people are plotting to “deal” with him for reasons that are yet not clear. People close to the governor claim that someone wanted to use one of the security officers to “poison” the flamboyant city boss. They claim when the officer failed to execute the plan, he was reassigned other duties. ***** Has Raila Odinga’s ODM been in secret plotting to reclaim most of top House seats held by affiliate NASA parties? The move by ODM to replace nominated Senator Petronilla Were (ANC) with its own member Judy Pareno in the Speaker’s panel on Tuesday was not received well by both Jubilee and NASA senators. It is said that some Jubilee senators have been making fun of their opposition colleagues whose parties have negligible numbers in both houses. ***** Word has it that some big shots from Kisii are behind the prosecution of Bobasi MP Innocent Obiri of the little known KNC party. The MP’s ‘persecution’ is said to be linked to powerful politicians and wealthy businessmen from both Kisii and Nyamira counties at the centre of a mega-scandal. The MP is opposed to the pricing of sand from the quarry, a move that has put him at loggerheards with brokers benefitting from the pricing. A section of MPs from Kisii who accompanied the lawmaker to court on Monday where overheard wondering why, all of a sudden, the quarry mining had become a prominent matter after the MP visited the scene a few days to his arrest. ***** What is happening at the Immigration department? Our moles whisper that the passport collection area has become chaotic again. Clients are spending over five hours waiting for services.