The Israel-Gaza border fell quiet
on Wednesday under a de facto ceasefire after the most intense
flare-up of hostilities between Palestinian militants and Israel
since a 2014 war. Militants from Hamas, the dominant group in Gaza, and
Islamic Jihad fired dozens of rockets and mortar bombs at
southern Israel throughout Tuesday and overnight, to which
Israel responded with tank and air strikes on more than 50
targets in the small, coastal enclave. There were no reports of further attacks after Hamas
announced early on Wednesday that it would cease fire if Israel
did the same. Israel signalled it would halt its strikes if the
rocket barrages stopped. But even during the fighting, both sides appeared bent on
avoiding wider conflict after weeks of violence along the fenced
border. Hamas did not launch long-range rockets at Israel's
heartland, even as salvoes from Gaza interrupted daily life in
small Israeli border communities. Israeli forces targeted
encampments that appeared to have been vacated in anticipation
of attack. No deaths were reported by militant groups or by Israel,
which said three of its soldiers were wounded by shrapnel from
projectiles. A Palestinian official said Egyptian mediation led to a
ceasefire, and terms of the "understanding" did not go beyond "a
restoration of calm by both sides". Hamas had largely abided by an Egyptian-brokered truce that
ended the seven-week Gaza war four years ago. In Israeli towns near the frontier, where rocket warning
sirens sounded frequently on Tuesday, schools reopened on
Wednesday morning. Gaza's streets were filled with shoppers. Israel stopped short of declaring any formal ceasefire with
Hamas and Islamic Jihad, which it, along with Western nations,
regards as terrorist organisations, but said any resumption of
Palestinian attacks would bring a stronger military response. "When they test us they pay immediately and if they continue
to test us then they will pay far more," Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said at a memorial service in Tel Aviv. Israeli Energy Minister Yuval Steinitz, a member of
Netanyahu's security cabinet, told Israel Radio he understood
there was an "indirect agreement with Hamas to end the current
round (of fighting)." Islamic Jihad spokesman Daoud Shehab, acknowledging a
ceasefire was in effect, said its success would depend on
"whether Israel will refrain from any military escalation
against Gaza". BORDER PROTESTS Both Hamas and the pro-Iran Islamic Jihad said they fired
their salvoes in response to Israel's killing of at least 116
Palestinians since March 30 in Gaza border protests. Islamic Jihad had vowed revenge in response to Israeli tank
shelling that killed of three of its men on Sunday after
explosives were planted along the Gaza frontier fence. Violence along the border escalated in recent weeks. Israel
drew international condemnation for its use of deadly force
against mass demonstrations by Gaza Palestinians. Palestinians are increasingly frustrated at their prospects
for an independent state. Peace talks between Israel and the
Palestinians have been moribund since April 2014 and Israeli
settlements in occupied territories have expanded. By late Tuesday, Israeli aircraft had hit 55 facilities
belonging to militant groups in Gaza, including a cross-border
tunnel under construction, in response to the Palestinian
barrages, the military said. Israel said some 70 rockets and mortars were fired from Gaza
into its southern territory. Some were shot down by Israel's
Iron Dome rocket interceptor system and others landed in empty
lots and farmland. One exploded in the yard of a kindergarten
before it was due to open. Click here for the latest local political news 