The government has alerted the public of a possible outbreak of Rift Valley Fever. RVF is a viral disease commonly observed among domestic animals such as cows, sheep and goats. It can infect humans who come into contact with blood or tissues of affected animals. Mosquitos can spread RVF virus depending on regional and environmental influences. On Saturday, veterinary services director Obadiah Njagi and medical services director Jackson Kioko said the current weather conditions are ideal for mosquito breeding and increase the risk of Rift Valley Fever outbreak in Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Malindi, Kwale, Laikipia and Kajiado. Besides displacing people and destroying property, flooding could increase the risk of diseases transmissions, they said. A joint statement sent on Saturday by the ministries of Agriculture and Health noted that although the May-June weather forecast predicts reduced rain in some parts of the country, flooding could continue. “There is a still a possibility of prolonged flooding in low-lying areas,” the statement read. Njagi and Kioko assured Kenyans no outbreak has been reported, but cautioned that the public be on the lookout. The last major outbreak was reported in 2006-07, after the end of prolonged rain. About 160 people died and the livestock sector lost about Sh4 billion. According to the WHO, the disease causes mild flu-like illness in humans to severe haemorrhagic fever that can lead to death. It can cause huge economic losses, especially with the deaths of livestock and trade reductions. To help in early detection and response, Njagi and Kioko urged the public to report sudden deaths and abortions among livestock to the nearest veterinary offices or any relevant agencies. “It’s highly advised that all persons who experience fever of unknown origin report to health facilities as soon as possible,” the statement said. The virus was first reported in 1931 among sheep on a farm in Rift Valley. Since then, outbreaks have been reported in Sub-Saharan Africa, North Africa, Saudi Arabia and Yemen. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, most human cases of RVF are mild and self-limiting; hence, a specific treatment has not been established. “The rare, but serious, cases are generally limited to supportive care. The most common complication associated with RVF is inflammation of the retina, which connects the nerves of the eye to the brain. As a result, about one–10 per cent of patients may have permanent vision loss,” it says on its website. Click here for the latest politicla news