Formulation of the National
Maritime Transport Policy is at advanced stages, Maritime Principal Secretary
Nancy Karigithu said yesterday. The Ministry of Transport, through Maritime Department, has organised a four-day
workshop for local and international experts to formulate
this policy.The PS said the four-day workshop is getting technical assistance from the International
Maritime Organisation in formulation of this policy. The workshop will focus on the process and content to be taken into
account when developing and formulating NMTP, according to Karigithu. “The main objective is to raise awareness on the importance
of a NMTP as a good tool for governance and planning in various government
ministries or agencies and other stakeholders, while engaging them in a meaningful dialogue with a view to
laying the basis for the integration of maritime policies into the national
development planning process,” she said. She said the workshop is imperative given the wide array and the broad
complex nature of activities impacting on and surrounding the maritime industry. The maritime sector has numerous players that are responsible for
different aspects of operations, management, and policy formulation. It comprises of over 13 sectors, 15 sub-sectors and about 87 different
activities that are all generally interconnected, and a decision in one of the
maritime related activity may adversely affect the performance of another
sector. She said whether the issue is shipping
and ports, maritime education and training, off-shore mineral extraction,
fishing or tourism, a decision in one area can affect all the others. “This calls for a coordinated, sustained effort in order to
exploit the inter-connection of industries and human activities centred on the
maritime domain, the need for development of a National Maritime Transport
Policy, which then forms part of a wider Integrated National Maritime Policy
(INMP),” she said. Maritime transport plays a
significant role in the social and economic development of Kenya. Data from the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and International Trade indicates that over 95 per cent of
Kenya’s international trade is by sea.