Eight people died after Patel Dam in Subukia burst on Wednesday night, sweeping across densely populated villages and destroying buildings. Red Cross gave this number and said tens of people were unaccounted for and 39 rescued. Those who were saved were taken to Bahati Sub-County and Nakuru Level 5 Hospitals. The mega dam is located inside the farm of prominent farmer Mansukul Patel in Solai. Houses in the area were also swept in the incident at about 9 pm, reports indicating that at least 500 families and 2,500 people were affected.  Part of the destruction following the burst of Patel Dam in Subukia, Nakuru County, May 9, 2018 /COURTESY  A person injured after the burst of Patel Dam in Subukia, Nakuru County, is attended to in a county ambulance, May 9, 2018. /RITA DAMARY Kabazi MCA Peter Mbae said an evacuation was taking place. "Some people have serious injuries so they need urgent medical attention," he said at the time. "Ambulances are needed ... thousands are out in the cold. The situation is dire," he said in a WhatsApp group. In a statement later, Mbae reported that Interior CS Fred Matiang'i was briefed and that he promised government support will be delivered from Nairobi on Thursday morning. Two more dams in the farm which will be assessed. The county and local leaders were among those who responded. An appeal was made for food and other items for the victims and a counselling and trauma centre set up. In a statement, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui said: "We assure residents that we will do our best to take affected families to safety and help them get medical attention. We have set up a centre near the scene for families to report missing members to enable us reunite them." He asked the public to be careful in the heavy rains season.  Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui addresses residents near Patel Dam in Subukia, which burst leaving at least eight people dead, May 9, 2018. /COURTESY  Ambulances near Patel Dam in Subukia, Nakuru County, which burst leaving at least eight dead and tens injured, May 9, 2018. /RITA DAMARY At least 113 people have died in the last two months and another 260,0000 displaced as raging floods wreak havoc across the country. And yet weather experts are warning of more heavy rains in the next few days in an unusual departure from traditional weather patterns. The Ministry of Devolution, the United Nations office in Nairobi and the Red Cross say 10 counties are the worst affected. Details: Death toll hits 113 as 10 counties flooded Related: Eight dead after Ongata Rongai river bursts due to rains Click here for the latest political news 