Diamond's father, Abdul Juma, is not pleased by the fact that his ex-wife Sanura Sandrah Kassim (also known as Mama Dangote) beat up their son's baby mama. The celebrity mother was angered by Hamisa after she slept at her mansion without permission. She told a Tanzanian publication that she beat the video vixen and even pulled out her wig. Hamisa ran for dear life with her sandals in her hands. “Yaani kiufupi simpendi na simtaki na kila akikanyaga hapa kwangu ni kipigo tu. Alipokuja kiwizi usiku ule na kulala nyumbani kwangu, alipaswa kuondoka kabla sijamuona. Kwa nini alisubiri mimi nimkute? Maana siku hiyo asubuhi yake nilitoka na nilivyorudi ndipo nikamkuta [The long and short of it is I don't like her and I don't want her [for my son]. Every time she comes to my home all she will get is a beating. She should have sneaked out the same way she sneaked into my house and spent the night. She should not have let me see her. Why did she let me see her? I left the house that morning and when I came back there she was,” Diamond's mother explained. The Kwa Ngwaru hitmaker went to the video vixen's rescue. The mother said, “Diamond yupo na yeye ndiyo alimsaidia kumuamulia mimi nikabaki na wigi, la sivyo ingekuwa shida. Alikimbia na viatu mkononi, maana nilikuwa nimeshavitupa nje ya nyumba yangu [Diamond shielded her and that's how I came to be left with her wig, otherwise I'd have done more. She ran off with her shoes in her hand as I had already thrown them out of my house].” Well, Diamond's father, talking to Global TV, expressed his anger at Sandrah for doing "the unthinkable". "Hilo mimi silijui, nafahamu kwamba wamerudiana lakini swala la kugombana sielewi [I just don't get it. I understand they made up, but I don't understand why they are fighting]." He said Diamond's mother should let the children handle their own drama. "Awache watoto wafanye lao...Sio vizuri kumpiga mtoto wa mtu. Sijapendezwa katika nafsi yangu. Hawezi akampiga mkwewe ambaye ashazaa na mwanawe [She should let the children be...It's not right to beat up someone else's child. I was not happy about it. You just can't beat up your grandchild's mother]." And what advice does he give to Diamond? "Afanye busara la Kiislamu waowane, basi [Let him do the wise thing according to Islam and marry her]." But the Star's mother said Hamisa is not wife material and she will not attend the wedding if Diamond chooses to marry her. "Hajui kutandika hata kitanda wala kufanya tu usafi ni shida. Siwezi kukanyaga kwenye hiyo harusi hata siku moja watasherekea wenyewe [She doesn't know how to make the bed or clean around the house. I won't set foot in their wedding. Let them celebrate by themselves].”