A section of Jubilee MPs are now accusing NASA coalition of taking advantage of the famous handshake to sell Raila Odinga’s 2022 agenda. Led by Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen the legislators on Sunday said the recent remarks by Senate Minority leader James Orengo alleging that Raila will still be their preferred candidate for 2022 is a clear indication of ill on the handshake deal. “Why is that Raila Odinga who entered into a unity pact with President Uhuru Kenyatta is now engaging in political activities at the expense of bringing Kenyans together for the sake of unity and development. Why is it that his brigade is just talking about him in the race in 2022. This is a a clear indication that the Nasa leader’s intention for the recent ‘handshake’ was ‘suspect’,” Murkomen said. Murkomen was speaking in Moi Kapsowar Girls High School grounds in Elgeyo Marakwet County during an interdenominational prayer service. Deputy President William Ruto was present. Governors Jackson Mandago (Uasin-Gishu), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Daniel Rono (Keiyo South), Kwenya Thuku (Kinangop), Kipsengeret Koros (Singowet/Soin), Lydia Haika (Taita Taveta), William Kisang (Marakwet West) and Kangogo Bowen (Marakwet East) were present. Others were Jane Chebaibai (Elgeyo Marakwet), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Gathoni Wamujomba (Kiambu) and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho). “It is now becoming increasingly clear that the recent handshake is being used for a political agenda. What looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck is a duck,” Murkomen said. Read:[VIDEO] Handshake ended secession, Raila tells Migori residents He added, “Mr Odinga is telling us that the recent handshake is for the unity of this country while in political rallies he is talking about 2022 politics. This means he is not sincere in this matter”. "We cannot hold our own candidate down and let someone else ride on him in the name of building bridges to advance his agendas," he said. The leaders, however, said they were not scared of Raila’s 2022 candidature for insisting it would be a walk over for DP Ruto who is the only candidate for Jubilee “We are ready and prepared to face Mr Odinga come 2022. DP Ruto’s development record speaks for itself,” Moses Kuria noted. Kuria added, “Now that James Orengo has told us that their candidate will be in the ballot in 2022, we now know that the ongoing handshakes are about the future of Raila Odinga”. On the calls for constitutional amendment, Cheruiyot said they would not allow any amendments to change the Constitution to create positions for some individuals. “We will only allow amendments to the Constitution if they are for the benefit of the people but not the ones aimed at helping some few people get to power,” Cheruiyot said. DP Ruto on his side for the second time avoided political bashing and assured Kenyans that Jubilee’s development agenda will not be distracted by politics. Ruto maintained Jubilee government is focused on the implementation of the Big Four agenda- manufacturing, universal healthcare, affordable housing and food security. “I want to assure Kenyans that we will not be distracted by politics in implementing our development agenda. Our plans are firm and on course as this will enable us present our report card to Kenyans when the time comes,” Ruto said. Ruto urged those who were joining hands with Jubilee to concentrate on the unity and development of the country. Read:Ruto avoids Kabarak visit talk, calls for unity among Kenyans Also Read:MPs bash Gideon Moi over thwarted DP Ruto Kabarak mission  