Critical services at
City Hall are grounded following delays by Governor Mike Sonko to appoint
chief officers. The names of the officials, who are critical in the day-to-day running of the county
affairs, were approved by the county assembly 18 days ago. The situation has put the city boss on the spot in the wake of poor services and
surprise nomination of lawyer Miguna Miguna as deputy governor. Public Appointments (County Assemblies Approval) Act, 2014 requires a governor to appoint the nominees within seven days from date of assembly approval. The MCAs approved 20
out of the 22 chief officer nominees on May 4. The names of Mama Lucy Kibaki
Hospital medical superintendent Musa Mohamed, who was to man the medical services docket, and Mary Nyambura (Finance) were rejected by
the August House. Read: Blow to Sonko as MCAs reject medical services, finance Chief Officers Chief officers are
the equivalent of the Principal Secretaries in the national
government. They are the chief accounting officers and they oversee
the day to day running of their sectors. Clerk Jacob Ngwele said the county assembly communicated its
decision back to the governor the same day that the nominees' names
were approved. The governor,
through the office of the county secretary, is supposed to issue
appointment letters to the approved nominees within days of approval. County secretary Peter Kariuki did not return calls when contacted for comment on Monday. County public service board chairman Philip Kungu said: "We hope the letters will be ready in the next three to four days...but, this is the work of the governor, not us." The Star has
established that the nominees whose names were approved by the MCAs were called
to a meeting with the Governor at City Hall last Tuesday. The meeting, however, failed to take place after
the lot was informed that Sonko was meeting
the president on the Nairobi
regeneration project. "We have not
received any communication since Tuesday and we now don't know what
is happening," a nominee said. The chief officers are among those who were appointed after Sonko was sworn in. They are Justus
Kathenge (Urban Planning), Pauline Kahiga (Urban Renewal and
Housing), Jairus Musumba (Devolution), and Winfred Wangoi (Economic
Planning). Lucia Mulwa (Education), Washington Odingo
(Agriculture), Mohamed Abdi (Livestock and Fisheries), Richard
Kavemba (Transport), Fredrick Karanja (Roads), David Makori
(Environment), Mohamed Abdirahman (Water), Aaron Kibet (ICT),Peter
Makhoka (E-government) and Anne Muenda (Disaster Management), Mude Ibrahim (Youths and Sports), Mahat Jimale (Public Health),
Fredrick Nzioki (Commerce and Trade) and Paul Macharia (Tourism) and Stephen Mwangi (Lands) were also nominated. Click here for the latest political news  