Business owners at the Sarit Centre, Westlands, are counting losses after a fire destroyed parts of the shopping mall on Friday. The extent of the loss could not be immediately established but damages could run into hundreds of millions of shillings. No casualties were reported. Witnesses said the fire was started by a faulty photocopying machine on the ground floor. Attempts by attendants to put it out using a hand-held fire extinguisher failed. An alarm was quickly sounded and tenants and shoppers evacuated from the building. “We didn’t know it [the fire] was coming up, so we stayed inside and made a cup of tea to calm our nerves,” Mitchel Rikta, a tenant, said. “But after that we noticed our floor was covered in smoke. When we opened the door it all came in and we closed it back.” “We then grabbed wet towels, clung on each other and managed to maneuver our way out of our office.” At some point, the fire, which started at 10am, appeared to have been contained. However dark smoke and a raging fire reemerged, engulfing parts of first and second floors, setting off another round of frantic efforts to put it out. Also Read:Traders count losses after Sarit Centre fire, county weaknesses exposed Red Cross, AAR and the City County Ambulance service rushed to the scene to offer first aid and put out the fire. Reinforcements were called in from G4S, National Youth Service, the army and KK Security. Two private water bowsers were also called in to replenish fire engines. The fire exposed the wanting capacity of disaster response and management in the county. Firefighters, for instance, were occasionally overcame by smoke and forced to go out for fresh air as they lacked oxygen masks. They only had dust masks and hand towels which they put in water and used to cover their faces. The mall houses dozens of businesses, including bookshops, a Bata shop, electronics outlets, flight ticketing agencies, boutiques and ATM machines. Carrefour supermarket, which now occupies the space vacated by the cash-strapped Uchumi supermarket on the ground floor, is the newest tenant. Click here for the latest political news