Fresh from bagging Commonwealth Games’ gold in Gold Coast, world 5,000m champion Helen Obiri, faces stellar cast in the Doha Diamond League tomorrow. Obiri, who is also Olympic 5,000m silver medallist and defending champion in the same distance, will be seeking to start the track season on a high after superb show in ‘Down Under’ last month. She faces a daunting task in the oil-rich gulf state with the likes of world former youth champion Lilian Kasait, former world under-20 champion Sandra Felis Chebet, Agnes Tirop, former world 3000m steeplechase champion Hyving Kiyeng and Norah Jeruto expected to give her a run for her money. The Kenyan girls will be up against Jenny Simpson of the United States, Ethiopian duo of Gidey Letesenbet and Mamo Meskerem and England’s Eilish Mcolgan. World and Commonwealth Games 1,500m champion Elijah Manangoi will race in the 800m race as he seeks to build up on speed for his speciality in readiness for subsequent races this year. He will face fellow Kenyans including world bronze medallist Kipyegon Bett, Emmanuel Bett, Ferguson Rotich and Nicholas Kiplangat. Also to provide stiff competition in the two-lap race will be Poland’s experienced world silver medallist Adam Kszczot, Netherland’s Bram Som and Burundi’s Antoine Gakeme. Former World 800m champion Eunice Sum returns to competitive action in the longer 1,500m race after missing out on last year’s World Championships due to illness. Sum has fallen out of form since winning the global event in Moscow five years ago and faces stiff test in the three and half lap race that features newly crowned Commonwealth Games champion Caster Semenya of South Africa. Sum will have Winny Chebet, Judith Kiyeng and Nelly Jepkosgei for company in the race with Ethiopia’s Tsegay Gudaf also among those to watch out for. World Youth 1,500m champion George Manangoi will spice up proceedings in the event. Manangoi was a late inclusion and will be up against Bethwell Birgen, Collins Cheboi, Vincent Kibet, Jackson Kivuva, Charles Simotwo and Justus Soget. The Kenya contingent will be up against the experienced Abdelaati Iguider of Morocco and Ethiopia’s Taresa Tolosa. The men’s 3,000m steeplechase has rich Kenyan field with Hillary Kipsang, Clement Kemboi, Emmanuel Kiprono, Lawrence Kipsang, Barnabas Kipyego, Cleophas Kandie and Bernard Nganga— all in contention. Girma Tesfaye and Tesfaye Deriba will provide the necessary competition in the race.