Fuel adulteration could become an issue of the past if a new app launched lives up to its billing. The Energy Regulatory Commission has been battling the challenge which exposes motorists to engine damage while denying Kenya Revenue Authority millions in taxes. Although there has been improved market compliance on fuel adulteration, Kenyan motorists still find themselves purchasing doctored fuel. Tn efforts to curb the problem, the National Oil Corporation of Kenya has partnered with Equity Bank and Eqwipetrol. The initiative targets independent fuel vendors who are in most of the reported cases the culprits of selling adulterated fuel. Eqwipetrol, a local fuel supply company, has introduced the Eqwipetrol app that enables independent retailers to plan for fuel demands, order and track their fuel consignments through a GPS system and access credit through a partnership with Equity Bank. "Most adulteration is now happening during transportation," Eqwipetrol chief technical officer Ben Ngugi said. National Oil Corporation CEO Jane Mwangi said they have aggressively pursued a strategy of partnering with independent petroleum dealers either as branded franchisees or unbranded outlets commonly referred to as DODI,” The Energy Regulatory Commission, through its quarterly petroleum marking and monitoring programme, has been able to achieve a 97 per cent compliance rate compared 80 per cent in 2009 when the state agency began the evaluation process. In Kenya, adulteration involves adding kerosene to other motor fuels costing motorists expensive garage visits. This, according to ERC has driven up the country’s Kerosene consumption to about 33 million litres per month from the expected five million litres. During the January-March period, the regulator in charge of monitoring petroleum products offered for sale in the local market found that at least 20 petrol stations were selling contaminated fuel. Owners were arrested and charged fines ranging between Sh84,000 and Sh420,000. Another 420 trucks were impounded for transporting diesel contaminated with kerosene and the drivers banned from the business. ERC has urged the policymaker to increase tax on kerosene to the same level as that of motor fuel to completely phase out adulteration. “This will completely remove the incentive for adulteration, which at the moment is very high due to the Sh21 difference between kerosene tax and that of motor fuels,” he said.