Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has criticised politicians preoccupied with the 2022 polls. Ngilu yesterday said it was premature to start campaigning, yet the  elections are four years away. “I’m shocked that people are allover talking of being the President in 2022, yet we just held elections the other day,” Ngilu said. “They go to churches, funerals and public meetings to proclaim their candidature. Are they crazy?” She spoke at Kamutei Mixed Secondary School where she handed over a cheque for Sh300,000 to renovate the school’s roof. Ngilu also distributed pads to girls at the school. The governor asked politicians to focuss on more pressing concerns  and let those in office deliver on their promises. She said politicians were behaving as if they were obsessed with the 2022 campaigns. “It would be prudent for the leaders to shun the 2022 talk and serve the electorate as we wait for the appropriate time for campaigns,” Ngilu said. The governor urged congregations to forcefully eject church leaders who speak politics during sermon. “They should only be allowed to worship and not further their 2022 ambitions,” Ngilu said. The former Cabinet minister said Kenyans expect their leaders to find solutions to their daily problems and not engage in constant political talk. She accused politicians of ferrying supporters to political rallies where they campaign and dish out cash. “Eat the money, but reject their motives,” Ngilu said. Talk of the 2022 succession of President Uhuru Kenyatta has been perpetuated by allies of Deputy President William Ruto. On Monday, Rift Valley lawmakers asked Uhuru to declare his stand about Ruto’s 2022 State House bid. Governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Wyckliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) have also said they will run for President in 2022. On Saturday, Siaya Senator James Orengo said NASA leader Raila Odinga will also make another stab at the presidency. Raila has since denied the claim. In Kitui, Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi has also declared interest in Ngilu’s seat.