Much like many other high ranking officials in their hundreds who worked for the now-defunct local governments, Makueni district accountant Wycliff Mitema knew how to manipulate the system into paying him more than he deserved. But once the law caught up with him, he was successfully prosecuted by two women young enough to be his daughters. Thirty-two-year-old soft-spoken and shy Mercy Gatheru was the lead prosecutor and was helped by 30-year-old Eunice Oloo to convict Mitema, 58. Mitema is one of five public officials who were this week found guilty of malpractice when they were in office. He ‘borrowed’ Sh3.8 million from the taxpayers using informal debt acknowledgement slips commonly known as IOUs (I owe you), and advances in the form of imprest (money advanced to someone for particular use). Anti-Corruption Court magistrate Lawrence Mugambi on Monday sentenced Mitema to five years in jail, if he fails to pay the Sh16, 719,724 fine that accompanied the verdict. The fine is four times what Mitema took from public coffers. “This was a tough case, especially because when we took over, documents supporting the case given to us by EACC were a mess. For example, the amounts did not tally and in some cases, some witnesses had not been secured. We did our best and produced witnesses who convinced the court that Mitema was guilty,” Gatheru said. Under section 48( 2 )(b) of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, if the conduct that constituted the offence resulted in both a benefit and a loss, the mandatory fine shall be equal to two times the sum of the amount of the benefit and the amount of the loss. In cases where the amount lost by the public is equal to that gained by the accused, as was Mitema’s case, the fine will be four times the money stolen. Mitema, who was the chief accountant, authorised several advances to himself between October 13, 2008 and September 30, 2009. The case has shed more light on how crafty public servants would abuse their positions to rob the local governments blind, owing to the lack of strong oversight systems. While money advances from employers to their workers are normal, Mitema would not submit imprest vouchers, which enable records to indicate who owes what. Being the boss, Mitema’s juniors could not question his presentation of handwritten chits demanding ‘loans’ from the district’s coffers. Some of the cashiers testified in court that they handed their boss money on the strength of the handwritten IOUs. The effect was that money was overdrawn from the district’s accounts, but with no evidence to show his debt to an already depleted Makueni, and with little questions on repayment. None of the imprest that Mitema benefitted from appeared on Makueni’s records. Some of the handwritten chits were eventually presented in court as evidence. A document examiner, who inspected the handwritten chits confirmed to the anti-graft court that Mitema had indeed authored them. The examiner noted the signatures appearing on the notes matched Mitema’s official mark. The irregular ‘borrowings’ saw Mitema collect Sh2.2 million from the district’s coffers. “Evidence by the prosecution showed the accused had advanced himself cash from the District Treasury in the form of imprest and IOUs, which had been given to him by several cashiers by way of signing of slips of papers and on imprest warrants,” prosecutors said. But the accountant’s get rich quick mission did not end with money already in Makueni District’s possession. He went on to divert funds collected by the district officers, and which were due for depositing in the national government’s accounts. The diversion of collected funds added Sh1.5 million to Mitema’s pockets. The scheme worked seamlessly until an internal auditor—Joshua Makanda — took a deeper look into Makueni district’s books. Makanda noticed several advances had been directed in Mitema’s way, and raised a red flag. Investigations by police culminated with Mitema being brought to court on August 6, 2012, where he was charged with three separate counts of malpractice. He was charged with unlawful acquisition of public property, wilful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds and abuse of office. The biggest challenge we had since then was the many adjournments Mitemi’s lawyers sought. They greatly affected the case but we were determined, especially because we knew we had enough evidence to secure a conviction,” Gatheru said. When all was said and done, magistrate Mugambi gave Mitema a general sentence fine of Sh1 million and a mandatory fine of Sh15, 219,724 or four years in jail in default, for unlawful acquisition of public property. He imposed another Sh500, 000 fine or a one-year jail sentence in default, for willful failure to comply with applicable procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds. The fines are to be paid collectively, failure to which Mitema will have to serve five years in jail. At the hearing, Makanda testified that IOUs are not recognised by government as a money acquisition process, indicating Mitema had swindled taxpayers. “The cashiers also confirmed the accused (Mitema) did not bring back any receipts to account for the various imprests or the IOUs,” added Oloo. A loss report filed in court as evidence showed Mitema’s scheme cost Makueni district over Sh4 million. The prosecutors were happy with the decision because their new boss, DPP Noordin Haji, has quietly been working behind the scenes to encourage and support his officers. “We have a new approach. All our officers are working closely with investigators to ensure suspects are convicted. For the cases that have been in court for long, we are asking the Judiciary to help us conclude them, even as we open fresh ones,” Haji said.