Boniface Biko's employment was terminated for a valid and just cause on April 13, 2016 and due process was followed. In his court papers, he has raised matters touching or relating to issues which do not fall within the jurisdiction of the Labour Court. Biko is in effect asking the court to interfere with the labour case. He also seeks orders, whose effect would be to interfere with the powers and mandate of the Director of Public Prosecutions, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Capital Markets Authority, without valid reasons. I state as follows; Firstly, the minutes are marked “private and confidential”. They are confidential documents which should not be in the petitioner's possession. Other than applying for them to be expunged, the National Bank of Kenya will take appropriate action against the petitioner for accessing, obtaining and relying on such confidential information. Secondly, the minutes are not signed. There is no basis for relying on them. It is not true that the minutes capture that NBK will misuse the Kenya Police to interfere with investigations. There is no basis for the allegation that NBK managing director Wilfred Musau maliciously demanded interference by the Central Bank of Kenya by writing the letter of May 15, 2017. This was done well within his mandate to report a violation of the provisions of the Banking Act and the prudential guidelines. The NBK has not in any way used the DPP, DCI and CMA to intimidate, harass or prosecute the petitioner as alleged or at all. These are public bodies and independent offices. The NBK has no influence or control of their processes and decisions. The NBK is regulated by the CBK and CMA. Its current and former employees are therefore subject to the laws governing the banking and capital markets sectors. The documents sought by Biko via a letter dated November 10, 2017 were sought under the purview of the labour case. Any issues dealing with documents should thus be dealt with by the Employment and Labour Relations Court, not this court [Constitutional & Human Rights]. The NBK will demonstrate in the labour case that there is no basis for the petitioner to request some of the documents set out in the letter of November 10, 2017. Habil Waswani is NBK's Company Secretary and Director of Legal Services.   