It is premised on inclusivity so
that everyone is given an equal chance — regardless of their background — to either
elect the leaders they want or to be elected. However, ‘inclusivity’ in
democracy still remains elusive, even in this day and age. It took a very long time to be where
we are, meaning inclusivity is emergent and will not be achieved overnight. There
was a time when there was only a certain class of males (propertied or
educated) who were allowed vote. Women, slaves, the poor, the unemployed, the
bankrupt and others had no voting rights.  Women, however, fought vicious
battles for inclusion. The Suffragettes of Britain won the battle in 1918, and
this year marks exactly a century since British women were allowed to vote.
Even then, they had to be at least 30-years-old and either hold a university
degree, be married or be a householder. These requirements prevented millions
of women from voting. There are still countries where women can’t vote or run
for office. It was only a half-century ago that African-Americans got the right
to vote, about the same time Kenyan-Africans got the same. In spite of it, democracy
today is the prevalent method for choosing leaders for public office. But as
always, inclusivity remains the bone of contentin.  EXCLUSION IN DEMOCRACY The National Portrait Gallery at the
Smithsonian in America holds portraits of men (and women) who ran for President
but lost. They are not on public display and almost everyone who goes there certainly
wants to visit to the Hall of the Presidents, where the portraits of all the
former US presidents are on display. But why would the Smithsonian, one of the
world’s largest museums keep the portraits of presidential losers? Perhaps this
is their idea of curing the problem of inclusivity in democracy, where the
loser goes home empty and nobody remembers them, despite their efforts and
resources it takes to run for President.  Nobody remembers whoever loses in
any competition and in democracy, as in all areas of life, you will also be forgotten. Abba Group sang
the song ‘…The winner talks it all, the
loser standing small…the winner takes it all, the loser has to fall, its simple
and its plain, why should I complain…” Yes, and why should we complain? Yet
we do, and that is against the rules of the game. According to our America-modelled
Constitution, if lose an election (presidential, governorship parliamentary or
civic) you become an ordinary citizen and keep your cool until the next polls.
That is only true in America and not in Kenya. Just as soon as the election is
finished, calls of its unfairness and rigging rend the air.  NO GUARANTEES In a world where, according to Greek
historian Thucydides, “the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what
they must…” democracy comes to us as the antithesis of this natural phenomenon. In democracy, the weak don’t have to
suffer anything. But lets face it, they (still) do. They suffer what they must. This has
led us to question the “winner takes it all” model, calling for yet another structure
of governance that, in our opinion, will cure the problems of democracy. The panacea being touted is the
parliamentary system of government. But is it any better? It is the measured opinion of many —
and mine too — that it is not. Just begin from the fact that there are no
guarantees in anything human, least of them democracy or even a parliamentary
system for that matter. In India, for instance, one of the
most ethnically and culturally diverse nations on earth, the same parliamentary
system has produced a family dynasty with power rotating around the
Nehru-Gandhi dynasty 20 years into Independence. Besides, half of all 16 Indian
prime ministers (including the incumbent) have been associated, one way or
another, with the state of Uttar Pradesh — either being born there or going to
school there. Certainly, three of them were from
just one family with a possible fourth (Rahul Gandhi) in the near future. This,
remember, is the world’s largest democracy.  CURING EXCLUSION At the shadow of the renewed drive for
constitutional change and the clamour for ‘inclusivity’ lies the repeated loses
by Raila Odinga at the polls. He has not won the much-coveted presidency,
despite taking a prominent part in altering laws at nearly every electoral
cycle for the past two decades. All of these efforts seem designed
to improve his chances at the polls. He has consistently blamed the laws, the
structure of the Executive, the electoral agencies and practically everyone
else except himself. Unfortunately, we are again going into
yet another acrimonious period to change the law. However, it is almost obvious
he is trying to do this to improve his chances at the polls in 2022. You
certainly remember even in the brief window just before the repeat presidential
polls last year, we were treated to the famous ‘irreducible minimums’, which
involved changes in the law as a pre-condition of participating at the polls.
When the changes were ignored, he pulled out.  ODM Parliamentary Group meeting resolved
to push for the constitutional changes to alter the structure of the Executive
ahead of 2022. The question of a parliamentary system of government has been
considered before but Raila quietly (read conveniently), allowed it to be defeated,
giving us the current Constitution. That has turned out to be a costly error of
judgment for him.  IMPERFECTIONS IN DEMOCRACY Democracy is premised on the idea
that everyone in the country is equal and imbued with the inherent right of
choice. He must attain the age of majority, thereby deemed capable of
responsibly exercising such a right. Despite our human differences — based on race,
physical attributes, tribal or socioeconomic background — we each possess the equal
right to have our voice heard through the ballot. However, like most human
institutions, there is nothing perfect about democracy. For instance, not all
the eligible voters will register and even those who are registered, will all turn
out to vote. Human dynamics always work to defeat a perfect democracy. Anything
from illness, laziness, intransigence, religious persuasions even the weather
and ‘system failures’ will play their part to deny us our vote. This means either
willingly or otherwise, the voice of those who did not take part will never be
heard. But perhaps of more importance to us are the structural problems inherent
in democracy, creating the feeling of exclusion. In our case, we have the merging of
tribal interests to lock out others. This could be addressed by bending
democracy a little by creating a structured system of access to power devoid of
one’s tribal background. Nobody questioned the fact that Nelson Mandela and his
(favoured) deputy Thabo Mbeki were from the same tribe, the Xhosa. Nobody
complained Kgalema Motlanthe was Sotho and Jacob Zuma being from the Zulu
majority ousted him to become the fourth president. President Cyril Ramaphosa is Venda. Other
than Ramaphosa, all the rest are classified ‘Nguni’, which essentially means up
to now, only one tribe has ruled South Africa since 1994.  CONTRARIANISM AND POLITICS OF
EXCLUSION What is wrong with us here in Kenya?
Why are we so concerned that we cannot be ‘ruled by two tribes since Independence’? We have never learnt to consider
human values above our own tribal interest – regardless. This is where Mwalimu Nyerere’s
Socialist-driven egalitarianism beat us hands down. They espoused human values
(which the South Africans proudly call ‘Ubuntu’) over tribal affiliation. Second, behind the clamour for ‘inclusivity’
is the story of poverty and the belief that holding executive power is the cure
of it all. We must, therefore, expand the
economy so that the pie is shared out and everyone can get a portion of it in
their prime. Third, we should help our leaders to learn to be nationalists
instead of constantly taking contrarian views that have no value but to harden
the resolve of others not to allow them to hold political power. In short, we should redefine
democracy to suit our needs, not those of our leaders. It’s not easy but we yes
we can!  Writer and biographer, researcher, publisher and commentator on leadership and social issues 