Last week Kenyans were treated to the latest instalment of the ongoing spectacle in the Knut leadership contest, as Wilson Sossion was locked out of the union’s headquarters. The doctors’ union was also in the media, opposing government’s move to hire 100 Cuban doctors while local doctors remain unemployed. In another move, the Statute Law Miscellaneous (Amendment) Bill proposes to remove traditional unions (FKE, Cotu, Knut, KMA) from the NHIF board in favour of appointees of the Cabinet Secretary. These seemingly unrelated events have everything to do with the emerging power dynamics under the 2010 Constitution that have caught big unions sitting on their laurels, ill prepared to engage. Whereas the unions have enjoyed automatic appointments to public service boards in the past, they have failed to assert good governance standards. They have failed in their internal governance, as is playing out in the Knut sitcom. They have become dinosaurs in a new game, especially in the failure to replenish top leadership through periodic democratic elections. The unions have also become collateral damage in the behind-the-scenes bruising battles as the national government seeks to assert itself under a devolved framework that ostensibly strips it of its powers. It sometimes uses illegal budget appropriations and bills geared to circumvent constitutional checks. A case in point is the proposed NHIF amendments. If the Bill is enacted, the NHIF board would be fully under the control of the national government, with one token appointee from the counties. The NHIF will also mobilise massive resources and expand its mandate without commensurate expansion and oversight. All this calls for more not less oversight by enhancing the governance requirements placed on the board and the nominating institutions. What is needed is a robust nomination process by non-state actors with a national membership base to apply for positions to the board. Nominating institutions should be required to demonstrate compliance with statutory accountability requirements, and internal nominating procedures. The NHIF amendments should raise the bar for national nominating institutions through robust replenishment and regular public reporting, not abolish their role. The NHIF amendments fall short in another crucial aspect — unbundling the functions and responsibilities of the county and national governments. This is especially so with regard to reporting, monitoring and oversight, which presently are extremely weak. The amendments should also clarify the role of county health committees, and should be designed to improve services at decentralised level (dispensary) to ensure sustainability of the fund. Presently, the government’s approach to NHIF is skewed towards large technology investments, as evidenced by the controversial leasing of health equipment contract. This approach draws away from the provision of quality basic service, an important pillar of sustainable universal healthcare. The NHIF provides a wonderful opportunity to curb exorbitant public spending on private medical insurance through the provision of NHIF insurance to public servants. It should be to these issues that the unions provide workable proposals. The NHIF amendments provide an excellent opportunity to place service delivery before political power games towards improved healthcare. Failing which we will all have to brush up on our Spanish — Hola, como estas? (Hi, how are you?) National coordinator, The Institute for Social Accountability