Police have impounded nine tractors and a lorry transporting sugarcane along Kitale–Webuye road in a crackdown after a spate of accidents that led to over 20 deaths. Trans Nzoia East OCPD Jackson Mwenga said the ongoing crackdown is set to get rid of unroadworthy vehicles and reckless drivers who do not observe traffic rules. “Most of these tractors are having various faults, we shall carry out an inspection and the drivers will be charged and prosecuted accordingly,” Mwenga said. Most of the tractors impounded were overloaded with canes and had no lights. Read: 19 dead, scores injured after multiple car crash in Bungoma In a span of two weeks, nineteen people have lost lives with several others sustaining serious injuries in an accident that involved the tractors and PSV Matatus. On December 12, nine members of the same family lost their lives on the notorious Kitale Webuye road where a sugarcane tractor was involved. The moves come after leaders from Bungoma and Trans Nzoia county have made calls to the management of the sugarcane firms to ensure their contracted cane transporters observe traffic rules. Hospital Ward MCA Eric Wafula told the star today that the assembly will pass a motion to burn sugarcane transportation in the region at night. “As leaders, we cannot afford to keep on losing lives, next week when we resume parliamentary sitting we are going to pass a motion that will see night transportation of sugarcane and we are asking our governor to support us in this,” he said. On Saturday, Kiminini Member of parliament Chris Wamalwa challenged the Kenya National Highways Authority (KENHA)to put up necessary road signage and bumps on roads in line with the roads act. “Sugarcane companies must as well take responsibility for road safety and ensure contracted Tractors adhere to traffic rules,” Wamalwa spoke at Kisawayi during the burial of Iva Kirong a victim of Kamkuywa road accident. Bungoma governor Wyclif Wangamatirecently met with the management of West Kenya sugar factory where it was agreed that no sugarcane trailers will be allowed on Bungoma road past 6:00 untill the new Transport Bill by county assembly on road safety is passed. Click here for the latest political news