Where do we go from here? This may sound like a cliché phrase, given that time and again, we have been forced to ponder whether corruption is part of our being; that indeed corruption is the new oxygen that drives our existence as a country without which our lives would crumble. The revelations of another mega corruption scandal at the National Youth Service are demoralising for those who believe in President Uhuru Kenyatta and his grandiose Big 4 agenda, and above all in Kenya’s destiny. It is ironic that NYS, an organisationthat prides itself, as part of its mission, in taking care of the youth is plundering the very resources meant to secure their future. That should be a concern. We must get angry. On October 19, 2016, at a State House accountability summit, President Kenyatta asked, “Mnataka sasa nifanye nini?” when questioned about his zeal to fight mega corruption in government. In effect, he threw up his hands. We have entrenched corruption in society. Our country glorifies and applauds embezzlement of public resources, directly or indirectly, and our frustration is arguably stems from the inability to secure a vantage position from which to share the loot. What else explains our association with well-known looters come election time? We endorse and campaign for well-known people from humble beginnings who miraculously struck gold, becoming billionaires overnight. Unfortunately, there are no visible mines for the rest of us to try our luck! Corruption in Kenya did not start at the NYS. People did not just start embezzling funds because Kenya floated a Eurobond that was oversubscribed. Never mind that we are borrowing money and paying hefty interest, only for the money to be stolen. Corruption, according to Odhiambo Mbai, begins in the absence of accountability. Cognizant of the fact that lack of accountability is to blame for the escalating corruption, Kenya has since Independence formulated various legal instruments and established a number of watchdog institutions, all aimed at enhancing the level of accountability of its public officials. We have gone ahead to establish so-called ‘corruption-free zones’. Regrettably, this has not worked. Accountability can only be attained when men and women of integrity are the periscope of the anti-corruption submarine. Integrity is hard to find, so it becomes herculean task to achieve accountability. There is an increasing desire for people to be seen doing well, even when they have not worked for it. Call it the ‘scare my neighbour’ mentality. With millions of shillings at one’s disposal, there is a unique type of power at one’s disposal. See, with this type of power, you cannot be arrested even if you pull down your pants in broad daylight and take a dump in the middle of Thika Superhighway. Well, you can afford legal fees and, in some instances, go to the extent of buying justice. With money, you can do whatever you want without fear of retribution or being answerable. You are able to scare your neighbours and even grab their land! What can’t money, do apart from buying love and integrity? The prevailing code of conduct Kenyans demonstrate on different occasions clearly points in the direction where the fight against corruption will ultimately lead us. Unfortunately, the answer is a dead end. Corruption is like negative ethnicity: It is premised on the absence of integrity. You cannot teach integrity. You cannot prosecute a lack of integrity. Just like salvation, it is an individual value. If a Kikuyu cannot vote for Raila because the latter is Luo, then that same person is likely to engage in corruption. And why not? James Comey, the immediate former FBI director, served as the Deputy Attorney General in the Bush administration. This is not just any position. He had the influence. He had all the power you can dream of. Yet, Comey, in his book A Higher Loyalty notes he had to quit because of his financial situation. The position was not paying him the kind of money he needed to comfortably take care of his family. Being a lawyer, he knew he could thrive in the private sector. And that is what he did. This is what integrity does. Can this be said of those who head our public institutions, including those that are at the heart of enhancing accountability? Are our institutions and corporations a conduit to illicit money? The President does not have an answer to corruption. Everybody is stealing. Appointments are based on who knows who, as opposed to who can get the job done. We are on our own.    Mukurima Muriuki  Los Angeles   