The National Youth Council of Kenya has petitioned the National Assembly to investigate the conduct of Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho. The NYC national leadership on Thursday asked MPs to probe the PS and recommend his removal from office by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The lot want this to be done pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of Kenya and part XXIII of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly. In a four-page petition to the Clerk of the National Assembly and signed by the NYC national chair Edward Githaiga and secretary general Juliana Olayo, the youth said Kibicho is unfit to hold a public office. The youth cited four grounds among them serious violation of the Constitution, serious violation of the law, gross misconduct in the performance of functions, and incompetence. "It has been reported in the mainstream media that Kibicho has by act and omission been actively abusing the office of the Principal Secretary in an effort to undermine the work of various leaders, including Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko," the petition reads in part. "PS Kibicho is accused of openly threatening the life of Governor Sonko in widely circulated clip, which is now on public domain," the youth say in the petition. Read: Sonko claims top PS fighting him over DG Githaiga and Olayo said Governor Sonko reported the matter to the Nairobi Director of Criminal Investigation boss Ireri Kamwende who they claim did not take any action. "Kibicho is misusing state machinery under his docket to intimidate, harass and sabotage Sonko’s effort to turn around and transform Nairobi," they said. The youth leadership said the National Assembly should now quickly probe Kibicho’s utterances and behaviour towards the city Governor and recommend for his removal from office. "Kibicho is thereby incompetent to exercise the functions of any office in public service, therefore he should be removed from office in the aforesaid grounds," they said. The National Youth Council is one of the state corporations in
the Ministry of Public Service, Youth and Gender Affairs. Click here for the latest political news  