The Bible says Jacob, the younger of Isaac’s sons, got the better of his older brother by tricking the old man into blessing him, thereby making away with what rightfully belonged to his older brother Esau. The same scenario is playing out between Gideon Moi and William Ruto. Gideon, the older of the two, has always considered that Ruto made off with what rightly belonged to him — leadership of the Kalenjin nation. Ruto went on to become Deputy President in pole position to become the next Kalenjin President. This is not the first time Ruto has tried to see Moi. Early in 2014, as DP, Ruto made his way to Kabarak and it is said he was kept waiting for two hours — and did not see Moi. This was in sharp contrast to the April 14 visit by Raila Odinga who was accorded a stately welcome and unfettered access to Moi. There are several reasons for what happened. One is the politics of 2022 is playing out. Pundits say Gideon aims to pull a major upset on Ruto and seize State House. Gideon’s route to power would be to support Raila’s new clamour for constitutional changes to create the position of executive Prime Minister, so he could be appointed President. After exile, Jacob returned to make amends to his brother. Perhaps taking a cue from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s call for national forgiveness and reconciliation, Ruto made the surprise visit to his mentor-turned-foe Moi. It is clear Ruto believes he needs the retired President’s goodwill if he is to become President. Gideon’s absence shows there is little love lost between them. Another reason advanced by some is that the retired President still retains the leadership monkey skin regalia bestowed on him in Nandi on July 26, 1969. There he was blessed as Vice President by Nandi elders at Kamatargui near Kapsabet. It is believed that blessing put him in line to succeed Jomo Kenyatta. Several Nandi elder delegations have requested Moi return that regalia, symbol of Kalenjin power, but the old man refused. He blatantly refused to give it to Ruto just after 2013. He is not about to do it now. The writer is a commentator, writer and researcher. He spoke to the Star  Click here for the latest political news