Raila Odinga's allies yesterday tore into Deputy
President William Ruto in what is evolving into a bitter political duel. They were responding to the DP's confidants
who publicly claimed Raila was using the truce with President Uhuru Kenyatta to
scheme for the presidency in 2022. Their statements during the weekend exposed
the simmering disquiet in Ruto's political wing. But yesterday, leaders allied to ODM accused
Ruto of fighting the wrong war and predicted his political downfall for allegedly
pegging his candidature solely to support from the Mt Kenya region. Read: Raila: I’m not interested in 2022 contest “He [Ruto] is the most insecure candidate and it is
now bordering on hallucination. He is seeing an enemy in everyone instead of
forging allies,” said NASA chief executive Norman Magaya He added, “But this will only
yield one thing: the penultimate defeat of the Ruto project. Kenyans must
come together and unite to stop this project. It's not good for the country.” Magaya was responding to Senate Majority leader
Kipchumba Murkomen, a close ally of Ruto, who on Sunday claimed Raila was engaging
in political activities instead of preaching peace and unity. ODM Treasurer Timothy Bosire said Raila has
a right to contest in 2022 if he wishes. The former Kitutu Masaba MP said Jubilee
boardroom agreements are not binding on Kenyans and anybody is free to run for
the top job. “The People's President should not be intimidated by anybody
for it is (his) constitutional right to do that which will make Kenya better than
it is today. At 76, Ayatollah took over and changed Iran, at 74, Jomo Kenyatta
took over as President, Mandela became President at the age of 77 and closer
to home, Kibaki himself took over as President well into his 70s,” Bosire told
the Star. He went on, “He [Raila] can be a candidate
10 times or even 20 times because the Constitution doesn't say don't stand. He
has been the architect of democracy in this country... He is free to stand
because he has never gotten an opportunity of serving the country, maybe this
is the time.” Read also: Orengo hits back at critics over his Raila 2022 remarks Nyando MP Jared Okello claimed it is Ruto
who is already in campaign mode and the handshake is beyond any electoral cycle. “He is free to go his separate way and chart his own
political path if he thinks the handshake is about 2022,” Okello said. Last week during Kenneth Matiba’s funeral service, Uhuru said
he was aware some people on his and Raila's sides were secretly opposed to the
deal, but he did not name anyone. On Sunday, Raila distanced himself from the
remarks by Orengo, his key ally, who had claimed he was already planning for the
2022 presidential race. Raila said he is focused on the truce which,
among others, seeks to end ethnic animosity in Kenya. Click here for the latest political news