Title: Dirty Computer Artiste: Janelle Monae Genre: R&B/Soul Release: April 27  “Dirty Computer” is a creation in the true R&B/soul, pop sense, as it largely finds Janelle Monae putting in her most exceptional innovative effort ever. She has always identified herself as a black non-conformist, whose expression in her previous notable records — 2010’s “The ArchAndroid” and 2013’s “The Electric Lady” — has been visible for the entire world to take in. In her third studio album, she now openly identifies as pansexual. For clarity, she believe that gender and sex are not determining factors in her romantic escapades. Well, it her most conceptual effort ever and a perfect game-changer, especially when it comes to artistes coming out. The “Dirty Computer” film better elaborates her story, using brilliant picture and storytelling skills. The 14-track album kicks off with a collaborative title track, ‘Dirty Computer’, which features Brian Wilson. It introduces us to an effort where Janelle sparks the conversation of tolerance, embracing those things about people that others might find offensive. On ‘Crazy, Classic, Life’ Janelle advocates a life where people can freely exist without judgement. Zoe Kravitz joins Janelle on ‘Screwed,’ a track that uses double entendre to refer to both sexual escapades and the political state of America. One of the album’s lead singles, ‘Django Jane’, showcases Janelle’s rap ability as she addresses her accomplishments and the power possessed by women. Janelle and Grimes use ‘Pynk’ metaphorically to celebrate the different forms of people and sexuality.  The track picks inspiration from Aerosmith’s ‘Pink’, with Steven Tyler being credited as one of the tracks writers. Pharrell Williams makes an impression on “I Got The Juice” before we get to hear the trap soul inspired tune, “I Like That”. “Don’t Judge Me” is an attempt by the artiste to influence both her fans and the media to embrace her newly revealed sexual orientation. She offers us a spoken word piece done by Stevie Wonder on “Stevie’s Dream” then closes out the effort with “Americans”, which touches on America’s racist nature. Janelle gives us a new perspective of something we are not so familiar with. The world now understands better her queer nature and art enthusiasts awe at her ingenuity.  Star Rating: 4 out of 5