Water PS Joseph Irungu has announced the formation of a national task force to look into the mystery of Ndakaini Dam levels. The report is expected in 60 days, he said on Wednesday, of the dam whose level is expected to rise to 52 percent should the rains carry on until June. The task force will be headed by acting Water ministry Secretary Samuel Alima and will have representatives from Athi and Nairobi water companies, the Water Resources Authority, the Meteorological Department and Murang'a and Nairobi counties. "As of today, the level stands at 48.6 percent," said Nahashon Muguna, who is Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company (NCSWSC) Managing Director During a tour of the site in Murang'a county, he said this is equivalent to 33.5 million cubic metres. "We decided to block the discharge routes so the dam fills up and we have seen a rise in the level," he added. Read: Hope as Ndakaini water level rises to 46%, rationing to go on Also read: Ndakaini Dam 42%, rationing to ease but shortage persists Muguna said it will take a year for the dam to fill up if it rains as expected through the seasons. "Since 2014, the long rains don't last (from April to mid May), leading to low water levels," Muguna said. The MD dismissed claims that the NCWSC does not receive funds from donors as are result of governance issues. "We have ongoing projects which are fully funded, including the construction of the Northern Collector Tunnel, so the company has no funding and governance issues." The Met Department pointed out that Ndakaini Dam and the upper zone of Murang'a county have not been receiving rainfall, as is the case in many parts of the country. Gatanga MP Nduati Ngugi dismissed claims that locals were sabotaging the dam's progress and said they were also worried. Addressing the water issue in Nairobi, Chief Administrative Secretary Winnie Guchu said the construction of the tunnel will boost supply in the city. "The demand in Nairobi is higher due to the increase in the population, as the resource becomes scarce, but we are certain that come 2019 collector tunnel is completed, supply in Nairobi will increase." Click here for the latest political news