The involvement of traditional leaders known as Emurons in the expansive Turkana county is helping to mobilise residents to seek essential services. Their area of jurisdiction is equivalent to a ward. They are powerful. Their word is considered law. When an Emuron issues a decree, no one contests it. The county is 77,000 square kilometres and has a population of about one million people. Traversing this region is not for the faint-hearted. The terrain is treacherous. Only a few hardy vehicles are capable of tackling the rugged landscape. During dry season, the weather is scorching. Come the rainy season and most of the region is rendered impassable due to being inundated with floods. Kibish subcounty is within the Elemi triangle. Kenya shares the border with South Sudan and Ethiopia. In this far-flung corner of the country, expectant mothers may only rely on traditional birth attendants. The distance from a Turkana kraal to a health centre may be as far as 30km. The Emuron here is Ikong Peter Epetet. “I have my own cabinet,” he said. This cabinet is made up of a council of elders who help him govern. In every kraal in the area he oversees, he has two or three members of his cabinet. They keep him abreast with the happenings in these dwellings. Epetet is disturbed.  Inside a freshly dug grave with a thorny hedge in a nearby Turkana kraal lies the body of a woman who lost her life due to pregnancy-related complications. The nearest health centre from here is Kokuro, 15km away. The Emuron painfully narrates their predicament. There are no roads. Boda bodas are hard to come by. An ambulance might be summoned from Lodwar, 350km away. Incidences of insecurity abound. Distraught men and women watched helplessly as the woman’s life ebbed away. “I want a motorcycle that will operate as an ambulance,” Epetet appeals. This will enable him to patrol the kraals, which are far from one another. “If I’m told that a child is sick, I direct that he be taken to hospital.” HOW IT WORKS According to the Kenya Demographic and Health Survey 2014, the maternal mortality ratio in Turkana has been 1,594 out of 100,000. The health sector recognises the need for concerted efforts in lowering this number. Afya Timiza Project deputy chief of party Dr Solomon Orero said: “It is not right for a woman to die when bringing forth a life. That is because we know all the things that kill women in pregnancy, and we know how to treat them. We have the resources to do something about them.” The Afya Timiza project has adopted a style of service delivery closely related to the concept of Huduma Centres. However, the approach differs in that its the services that are taken to where people are. The Turkana call it Kimormor. It means bringing services together. Afya Timiza maternal, newborn and children’s officer Anthony Arasio said Kimormor is targeting the nomadic in hard-to-reach areas. In Turkana county, the project operates in Kibish, Loima and Turkana South subcounties. When an Afya Timiza team arrives at an agreed location, it has other service providers tagging along. The services to be offered may include antenatal care for pregnant women, birth registration, identification card issuing, immunisation, food distribution and animal vaccination. Afya Timiza county team leader Mark Lominito said: “Since the Turkana community is a patriarchal society, we want to work with the men who are the custodians of all the decisions at the family level.” This is why the Emurons’ influence is being tapped into. Sometimes, it’s difficult to predict where nomadic pastoralists are so as to take vital services to them. The Emuron’s knowledge of his people proves helpful because he understands the migratory routes taken in search of pasture. Afya Timiza officials hope to convince them to be in the forefront in encouraging and decreeing their people to reach out for the services taken to them. Resident Veronica Lokucha, who had just received some food to meet her baby’s nutritional needs, said of the Emuron: “He’s our leader. When he says something, we do it.” Word from the Emuron had quickly been passed around that the team would be arriving. Hundreds of men, women and children were around to be attended to. MALARIA, MALNUTRITION WOES The structures in the kraal are exposed to invasion by mosquitoes. The Emuron here predicted that there is going to be a malaria outbreak. When he does this, the residents respond by smearing a white, chalk-like substance on parts of their body to mark the prediction. County Health Promotion coordinator Kwaba Omwenga said: “We are making plans to distribute nets to the most vulnerable, pregnant women and children less than five years old. Indoor residual spraying will also be undertaken.” Under the shade of the tree of men, cabinet sessions are held. The Emuron chairs these meetings. A litany of issues is discussed. These may include pasture, security, animal welfare and water. Water scarcity is a big concern. During dry spells, residents dig holes on riverbeds that serve as the only source of water. The very low toilet coverage in the region renders these water supplies unhygienic. No household treats the water. There have been attempts to drill boreholes. Most of this water ends up condemned. The level of salinity is just too high. Desalinating it hasn’t been attainable. The Emuron is unsettled. Epetet says he channelled some water from a borehole to a tank and five goats died after drinking it. That borehole has not been used for three years. His desire is to meet the Turkana Governor [Josphat Nanok] to explore what could be done to alleviate the acute shortage. Access to markets is extremely limited. Malnutrition is widespread. “Turkana has one of the highest malnutrition cases in the country, with a rate of over 37 per cent among children under five. That is the highest anywhere in the world and has severe long-term implications,” Dr Orero said. The malnutrition is caused by drought and the absence of water. The few fresh water sources are only sufficient for limited irrigation. In Kaikor, a self-help group has been growing vegetables to supplement their diet. This water source is about 75km from Epetet’s people. Afya Timiza project works in the context of Family Planning, Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health (FPRMNCAH). It also covers Nutrition and Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (Wash). “I have got my identification card, medicine, food for my little children and porridge flour,” said Rosaline Maasu, a beneficiary. “This thing called Kimormor is good for we the people of Merkokwa,” said Anam Eyen. “We have been walking long distances on empty stomachs.” The inhabitants of Kibish, Loima and Turkana South will keep hoping that Kimormor returns.