After an illustrious two-decade career in the ring, longstanding national team bantamweight boxer Benson Gicharu has announced his retirement. In a shock announcement in the wake of the recent first round defeat at Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, the stylish Police superstar also ruled out joining the paid ranks but will instead dedicate his time and energy on his team’s youngsters. “It comes a time in a career when you feel you need a fresh impetus and I have deemed it fit to hang my gloves in order to give upcoming boxers a chance,” said Gicharu, who had stint with the now defunct AIBA Pro Boxing (APB) alongside Rayton Okwiri — who has since turned professional. Gicharu, who boxed at the 2012 London and 2016 Rio Olympics said he wishes to join the Police team as a trainer. “I have no plans of turning professional and this is one of the things I had ruled out from the word go. The essence will be to encourage our team boxers win more titles,” he said. Police coach George ‘Foreman’ Onyango candidly admitted the team will miss Gicharu’s presence in the ring. “He is definitely one of the most talented boxers of his generation and it’s sad he is hanging his gloves,” said Onyango, a former Commonwealth Games gold medalist. Onyango, however, dispelled fears that their squad will be depleted in Gicharu’s absence. “We have the depth and still remain the team to beat,” he bragged. In Gicharu’s absence, Martin Oduor will now be Police’s first choice bantamweight. “Oduor is an astute student of the game and as such, a great replacement,” said Onyango. He added that ‘Chafua Chafua’ are only signing one boxer in middleweight, Cosby Odhiambo. Odhiambo who has been signed from Kisumu will, however, deputise Frederick Ochieng as Chafua Chafua seek to uphold in-depth in their squad. “Save for Gicharu’s exit, our team remains intact as I believe we have the requisite ammo to silence our adversaries,” Onyango added. Gicharu is a student of 1987 All Africa Games gold medalist Maurice ‘Kawata’ Maina at the now defunct Queen of Peace boxing club which drew its squad of boxers from the sprawling Mukuru Slums. In his illustrious boxing career, Gicharu won silver at the Commonwealth Games in Delhi 2010 and added a bronze medal at the Glasgow Commonwealth Games in 2014. He joined Queen of Peace 20 years ago, then proceeded to Railways in 2003 before joining Kenya Police in 2006 and eventually made it to the national team in 2009. Gicharu shocked all and sundry in 2016 when as a lone ranger (without a coach), qualified for the 2016 Olympic Games in Vargas, Venezuela.