Women yesterday told a House team the current Parliament is not properly constituted and risks being dissolved if the gender rule is not be passed and implemented They addressed a subcommittee of the National Assembly’s Justice and Legal Affairs team at County Hall, Nairobi. The women, numbering in their hundreds, proposed that only “best losers” in an election should be nominated by political parties. They also said the election date should be changed from August to December. Read: New Bill seeks change of election date to December The three-member subcommittee, chaired by Tharaka MP George Muragara, was collecting views from wananchi on two bills. One Bill, sponsored by Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa – Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2018 – seeks to change the date of the General Election from the second Tuesday of August every five years to the first week of December. The other, sponsored by National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale, Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2018, seeks to have women nominated to Parliament to top-up the gender gap and ensure at least one-third of the MPs are women. The women, mostly from NGOs, supported Duale’s Bill, saying the implemention of the two-thirds gender rule is long overdue. Fida representative Joyce Majiwa told the committee the principle should be implemented now and not wait for the 2022 election. “Fida-Kenya, having gone through the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2018, we fully support the Bill in its entirety, including the election date and urge the National Assembly to urgently pass the Bill with no further delays,” she told the committee. Wangechi Wachira, who represented the Centre for Rights Education and Awareness, supported the Bill and urged legislators to pass it as soon as possible to avoid the House being dissolved. “Parliament has both legal and political reasons to enact this Bill and to do so without any delays... As such, there can be no sustainable progress if the majority are not included in the governance and development processes,” she said. Read: IEBC stands ground on August 8 election date Click here for the latest political news 