Two primary schools have been shut,
500 houses destroyed and several roads were cut off as heavy rains caused
flooding in Eldoret and other parts of the North Rift Counties. The Iten-Kabarnet road was also cut
off by landslides following heavy rains in parts of the North Rift region. Heavy rocks and mud rolled down the
escarpments in Kerio Valley and blocked the road at Kamok near Kolol center
thus paralyzing transport along the route that links Elgeyo Marakwet with
Baringo counties. Motorists remained stranded at the
areas that were cut off with no movement on both sides. More than 1,500 families in areas
prone to mudslides in Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu and Nandi Counties have been
asked to move to safer areas with the rains expected to increase. Public health officials ordered
closure of the Kapseret and Arbuch primary schools in Uasin Gishu after toilets
were submerged and destroyed by floods. Headteacher at Kapseret primary
Daniel Shongoi is calling for assistance to construct new toilets at the
school. “We could not put the lives of the
children at risk and decided to close the schools indefinitely so that repairs
are done”, said Shongoi. Floods have displaced several
families in Eldoret where hundreds of houses were partly submerged by water. Most affected are residents of
Kidiwa, Kamkunji and Eeistleigh estates where more than 500 houses were damaged
by water. Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdi
Hassan said they were monitoring the situation in the region where rains have
been on the increase. “We have our disaster management
teams in place and we are asking those in risky areas to take extra precaution
and move once they detect increasing volumes of water”, said Hassan. Five dams in Uasin Gishu have also been
classified as dangerous and engineers have been deployed to carry out repairs
in order to avert disasters like the one in Solai two weeks ago. County executive for environment
Mary Njogu says the region has 300 dams and already they have been inspected
for safety. She says 18 of the dams put up
during colonial times have undergone major repairs by the county to ensure they
are safe because they are being used to store huge volumes of water.