Traders who ply the Kitale -Lodwar- South Sudan route have incurred millions in losses due to heavy rains. Kainuk bridge, which links Kenya to South Sudan, Ethiopia and Uganda, is impassable as it has been overtopped by floodwaters. "Each truck spends almost 14 hours crossing to the other side. On average, traders have lost Sh30 million in the last one month," Turkana County Trade director James Lokwale said on Wednesday. Lokwale said a temporary drift at Kainuk, along the Kitale-Lokichar-Nadapal corridor has been damaged. Six vehicles were swept on that part, he added. "Traders in major towns are counting losses of millions of shillings following a month-long pileup of vehicles stuck at the Kainuk drift," he said. Read: Three trucks washed by floods at Kainuk bridge, traders decry heavy losses Also read: Death toll hits 113 as 10 counties flooded The director also cited the sweeping of a  24-tonne truck with 500 bags of cement at Kainuk bridge on Sunday, an incident that caused a businessman to lose Sh1.5 million. "The county collects approximately Sh100,000 daily from the trucks at the Kainuk barrier. In a month, we have lost at least Sh1 million." Lokwale said motorists who get caught in the snarl-up incur losses of about Sh30,000 daily with risks of perishable commodities, such as vegetables, tomatoes and bread. Joseph Ekaru, a business dealer in Lodwar town, said they were receiving goods late. "The cost of transport has increased. I am discouraged to restock because under these circumstances, I will sell the goods at a loss." Esther Njeri, who sells groceries in Lodwar, said: "I deal with perishable goods which must reach the market on time. But Kainuk bridge is impassable so drivers of lorries carrying our goods have to wait days to cross." For some locals, however, the large number of struck travellers means more bookings at hotels and lodges and more clients at restaurants and bars. The Kenya National Highways Authority has restricted use of the bridge to low-tonne vehicles due to its poor state. Charles Njogu, who is the authority's Assistant Communications Director, announced that only vehicles that weigh up to four tonnes will be permitted to cross. Deputy President William Rutto said the government has set aside Sh1.5 billion for the fresh construction of the bridge, which has collapsed several times before. "Kainuk bridge will be fixed soon. We already have a contractor," he told people who attended the Turkana Tourism and Cultural Festival in Lodwar on April 21. More on this: Sh1.5b set to construct Kainuk bridge - Ruto Related: [VIDEO] Kajiado bridges are death traps, Ole Lenku must act, protesters say Click here for the latest political news