At least 40 physicians and technicians will be trained to diagnose heart problems, lowering the shortage of specialists in the country. The training was announced in Nairobi yesterday by the Kenya Cardiac Society and medical equipment manufacturer General Electric. The venture will help patients through early diagnosis and referral to cardiologists. The beneficiaries will come from public and private hospitals and will be trained in six-month cohorts over two years. Echo-cardiography training will give participants technical skills in cardiac imaging, the two partners said. Echo-cardiography is a test that uses sound waves to produce live images of the heart. This test allows the doctor to monitor how the heart and its valves are functioning and help spot blood clots in the heart, fluid in the sac around the heart and problems with arteries. Kenya has approximately 60 cardiac specialists and the training should raise the number to more than 100. Dr Bernard Gitura, head of the Cardiac Society, said, “Many facilities have inadequate echo-cardiography services as well as low access to training for practitioners in the treatment and management of various heart conditions.” He said collaboration with GE Healthcare will provide structured training to help participants to better diagnose and treat cardiac cases. There is no standardised echo-cardiography training course in Kenya and many healthcare professional travel abroad to study. Gitura said this option is not possible for many clinicians. He said KCS has developed a model offering local training. Participants can train but continue working, with a tighter schedule. GE Healthcare East Africa CEO Andrew Waititu said, “The challenge in efficient delivery of quality cardiac care is the absence of well-trained professionals. Our collaboration with the Kenya Cardiac Society to provide echo-cardiography training is a key step in improving access to quality healthcare countrywide.” GE sells ultrasound systems and echo imaging equipment. According to the Kenya STEPwise Survey for Non-Communicable Diseases, mortality due to cardiovascular diseases in the country ranges from 6.1 to 8 per cent. Most heart failure is caused by undetected, untreated or poorly treated hypertension, the survey indicates. Good echo-cardiographic skills are critical to properly identify and diagnose the conditions that can lead to heart failure.