Since the exit of Fred Matiang'i
from the Education ministry, some senior officers have been celebrating what
they call huge relief from pressure that used to be the order of the day.
Our mole heard some senior officials confess on the sidelines of a function last week how
life has become 'easy' after the exit of the roving
Cabinet Secretary for Interior and Coordination of National Government. “It
feels like a continuous holiday,” one officer was overheard remarking jokingly. ***** A health expert who has turned himself into a
contractor in Embu is said to to be experiencing rough rides in his new
venture. The entrepreneur who got his first job to grade a murrum road in
the eastern part of the county is almost dropping the contract. His close allies
reveal that he quoted Sh2.1 million to fix a 30km stretch of road but realised
that he had grossly underestimated the cost. Fearing the wrath of the residents and
road users, the contractor is complaining of too much politics by residents. He
is rumoured to be on the verge of abandoning the job. ***** A legislator from one of the pastoral counties in the
Rift Valley is facing serious criticism from his constituents and fellow MPS
over his dress code. The former teacher always dons village tailored suits with
oversize turned up trousers. His constituents have been heard joking that the
MP has not graduated from his former village lifestyle, a classical case of
getting a man from the village but leaving the village in the man. ***** A
former MP who lost during the last General Election has stunned his supporters by
buying a chopper and continuing to meet with his campaign team as if an election
is around the corner. The man who spent a fortune in protracted legal battles
with his successor over the nomination certificate has left supporters
wondering about the source of his new wealth just months after the election
which left him and many others hugely
wounded. ***** A group of MCAs from Garissa County Assembly have
vowed to deal with one of their colleagues who roughed up the Majority leader.  During the confrontation, the MCA lost two of
his teeth. According to the MCAs, their colleague, who is in his late 20s and
whom they accuse of being ill mannered, has made it a habit of always causing
chaos in and out of the chambers by picking up arguments with members. “He is
rarely in the assembly and when he shows up it is to fight with his colleagues,”
said one MCA. The incident is being investigated by the assembly. ***** Click here for the
latest political news