It all started when Helen Napono’s daughters reached the ages of 11, 13 and 15. She felt it was time for them to be circumcised but there was no one to perform the rite so she decided to do it by herself. Napono, 74, is a mother of three boys and three girls. She lives in Ololunga village, Narok County, and is a retired government nurse, having held the job for more than 20 years. Her work as a circumciser started while she was still a nurse - when her daughters were due for the illegal rite of passage. “Someone referred us to Mau, which is very far from here. Then I thought to myself: 'Wait a minute. Aren't I a nurse? Isn’t it a normal operation? Let me cut my daughters'," she narrates. "I told the senior doctor that the exercise with my daughters was a test and that he should assist me. He agreed. I mutilated them but everything was okay. They got healed." After successfully cutting her daughters, people started taking their children to Napono. The fact that she was a practising nurse at the time was a boost. In 1996, the woman retired from her nursing job but this did not interfere with her other work - she had more time so circumcision became her full time job. “I continued to cut girls at my home. Many people knew me as a doctor so they brought their daughters to me. At that time I wasn’t a believer,” she says. Napono received more clients during December holidays when schools were closed. To this mother, circumcision was not that well-paying but people appreciated her work with a few hundred shillings. “I got paid only Sh500 per girl. That kind of work was not good. The money we got was in the name of washing stains of blood from our hands. When I was at the hospital, I used one sterilised blade and scissors, but when I went home, I bought my own tools," she says. Napono cannot remember the number of girls she circumcised. "They were so many," she says. "You know with that title of a nurse, many believed in me. They didn’t want to deal with traditional circumcisers." At that time, female circumcision was a serious business because the FGM Prohibition Act had not been introduced. Matters were worse because Maasais traditionally subjected their daughters to the mutilation. The community considers circumcision a rite of passage from childhood to adulthood. “We used to say that an uncut girl was not mature. Her reasoning was considered like that of a baby,” Napono says. CHURCH A SAVIOUR It was only in 2013 that Napono realised the government had banned female genital mutilation. “I realised that the government didn't want us to continue cutting girls. I also didn’t see any benefits that came with the practice so I stopped the  business and decided to go to church where I became a believer." Despite the tough decision, people still flocked her home with their daughters but she did not budge. “I told them that what I had done was enough and that 'I am in church so I no longer want to engage in that business',” she says. Related: Nasieku, the village 'informer' who saves girls Also read: Former circumciser free after jail term Napono says many people practised FGM becuase of their cultures since they didn’t know anything about the church, and that those who embraced the church did not subject their children to the rite. Some girls ran away because of being forced to undergo the cut, she adds. “By the time I stopped engaging in the practice, the number of girls I cut had really gone down. Had we understood the religion, we wouldn’t have subjected our girls to the cut. I really ruined part of their bodies, but without knowing." Shinina Shani, the Narok County Development Programme Manager at World Vision, say religion has significantly contributed to the fight against FGM. “Many religious people in Narok don’t subject their girls to FGM. This is because religion has taught them that it is wrong to circumcise girls. The church doesn’t allow this. You’ll find many girls running to the church once they realise that their parents want to circumcise them,” she adds. According to the 2014 Kenya Demographic Health Survey, 77.9 percent of the Maasai women aged 15 - 49 have been circumcised. The report indicates that 15.1 percent of Maasai women aged between 15-49 believe that FGM is required by religion while 80.1 percent of them don’t believe FGM is a religious requirement. It shows that 14.8 percent of Maasai men think FGM is a religious requirement while 79.3 percent do not believe this. Napono is now an anti-FGM campaigners, work that she does one on one - by word of mouth to her friends, relatives and neighbours. She also concentrates on her farm work in Ololunga. “I usually encourage people to stop this retrogressive culture. It’s not good at all. Let’s embrace religion.  The girls and women I circumcised respect me, yes, but they also remind me that I spoilt part of their bodies. That breaks my heart to date." More on this: Islam doesn't condone FGM, Muslim scholars say Also read: Kenya among top countries abetting FGM in hospitals Click here for the latest political news