President Uhuru Kenyatta and Governor Mike Sonko today will issue 50,000 title deeds to landowners in Eastlands. Beneficiaries are from Dandora, Tassia, Kayole, Umoja, Buru Buru and Kariobangi, among other areas. Residents have lived in fear of losing their land to grabbers, as some of them acquired property more than 30 years ago but lacked title deeds. Lands executive Charles Kerich yesterday said the title deeds are ready and Uhuru will issue them to residents at Jacaranda Grounds.  SET TARGET “It has been a very intensive exercise involving the national government and county government, subcounty administration and the Survey of Kenya,” he told the Star on the phone. “This is a promise we gave and we are happy we have hit the target and residents will now feel that sense of ownership.” Kerich said the county has been educating landowners to submit their documents to City Hall for deed processing and has waived the fees. “Our trucks have been moving all over the city, encouraging landowners without title deeds to submit their documents so we can process titles. Progress has been good but we urge those still remaining to bring their papers,” he said. Kerich said they will continue to process more title deeds and they hope to issue 50,000 more, by December. Applicants were required to attach their IDs, passport photos, KRA Pin certificate, original allotment letters and to disclose names of current holders. Despite land value increasing, most landowners in Eastlands, the most populous area, have not benefitted as they do not have title deeds. They have been unable to use of their land as collateral for loans. Most do not pay land rates for the same reason, as the county requires a title deed as a proof of ownership.  PROMOTE GROWTH Some landowners bought their parcels from land-buying companies that only issued them allotment letters. Banks do not accept allotment letters as proof of land ownership. The city government says title deeds will promote growth of affordable housing as owners can borrow from banks to build more houses. In March Sonko said the city will not sit back and watch as widows, orphans and less fortunate people are thrown off their property. He said the city will protect public and private property and keep it from the hands of grabbers. Processing title deeds is one of the mandates of the municipal regeneration team appointed by Uhuru to fix the capital’s problems.