Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri and Deputy Governor Joash Maangi have denied reports of a fallout among leaders from the Gusii region. The two leaders who did not attend a retreat over the weekend that was attended by 13 MPs, said they are ready to attend future meetings which are aimed at uniting the community. “There was nothing sinister in the meeting; we should not read much into it. Some of us were away because we had other commitments. The MPs laid down the agenda for future meetings,” Ongeri said. Ongeri who spoke to the Star on Tuesday morning said Governors John Nyagarama (Nyamira), James Ongwae (Kisii) and Nyamira senator Okong’o Omogeni are committed to uniting the people. “Under my stewardship, I want to see all leaders working together for a common agenda,” he added. Separately, Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi said he is 100 per cent committed to Kisii unity. “I’m looking forward to future meetings. We skipped the weekend meeting because of the involvement of public servants which we felt was not okay,” he said. The retreat has however continued to elicit reactions. Thirteen MPs from Kisii, Nyamira and Nakuru counties met in Naivasha on Saturday and Sunday ostensibly to chart the way forward for the Kisii community. Former Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire welcomed the unity push but said it should be done in a structured manner. He said the push for Omogusii unity has been elusive. “Involvement should be comprehensive because as politicians we don’t have a monopoly of ides. Scholars and other leaders should be brought on board. The approach adopted by the MPs is poor because the leaders started from the top,” Bosire told the Star on phone. Nyamira Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo termed the meeting which was held at the Great Rift Lodge Resort as a Jubilee Party affair. “The meeting was mostly attended by allies of Deputy President William Ruto and the 2022 election was part of the agenda,” Nyaribo said. However, his claims were disputed by the convenor of the meeting North Mugirango MP Joash Nyamoko. "Claims that the meeting was Jubilee Party affair are nonsensical. Our main interest was to push for the agenda of the community," he told the Star. Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose said, “There are some people who feel like if they are not involved in anything, it cannot be successful. That is retrogressive politics.” Other MPs who attended the meeting were Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache) Zadoc Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu), Millicent Omanga (Nominated senator), Ben Momanyi (Borabu), Samuel Arama (Nakuru West), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba), Richard Tong’i (Nyaribari Chache) and Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango. Nyamoko downplayed the absence of other MPs saying some were out of the country while others sent their apologies. More meetings he added are lined up. "I wish to thank Governor Nyagarama for giving us his blessings to go ahead with the meeting. The Governor is unwell. Other MPs who did not attend sent their apologies," added the MP. Tong’i asked the Jubilee administration to give the Kisii community at least three flagship projects. “We are asking President Uhuru Kenyatta to give us three projects as an appreciation for supporting him,” added Tong’i.       