How did a lawyer move to court to oppose the creation of the Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Authority without the knowledge of Governor Mike Sonko? This is the question striking the minds of many city dwellers after Sonko has denounced 'misleading information' suggesting he is opposed to the authority's creation. The county boss has, following the developments, called for the immediate arrest of suspended county legal officer Violet Oyagi. Read: Sonko seeks lawyer's arrest over suit opposing Uhuru's Transport Authority This followed a matter filed in court on Thursday where Nairobi county has opposed President Uhuru Kenyatta's creation of the transport authority. With Sonko's take on the case, it defeats the normal cause of litigation where a lawyer, before going to court, discuss a case with his or her client. And in this case, the lawyer's client was Sonko. According to the Law Society of Kenya rules, an advocate is under a duty to provide the legal services in respect to which
he/she is engaged competently, diligently and ethically. The rules say that poor client management can lead to a finding of professional misconduct. Practices which might lead to disciplinary action for professional
misconduct include failure to keep the client periodically informed about developments affecting
the client’s matter. Treating the client discourteously or disrespectfully by, for example, showing
rudeness or routinely failing to keep appointments with the client without prior
information to the client is also punishable. Sonko says he is not aware of the contents of the affidavit which says the creation of NAMATA is against the law in the absence of a formal agreement between parties. More on this: Uhuru's Metropolitan Transport Authority unconstitutional, Sonko tells court He has now sworn an affidavit saying that the information given to the court was all wrong. The key concern is, How did the suspended lawyer get the information? Is it a case of trying to get a fall back plan after opposing the president or is it true that the suspended lawyer might have been tipped with information from insiders? Click here for the latest political news