Ivorian striker Ephrem Guikan was on target as leaders Gor Mahia beat bottom of the table Sony Sugar 1-0 at Moi Stadium in Kisumu in a mid-week Kenya Premier League clash. Following the hard fought win, Gor Mahia extended their lead on top of the log to 34 points from 16 encounters while Sony remain bottom of the table with 14 points from 17 matches. Ulinzi Stars are second—six points behind the runaway leaders. The soldiers have played two more games than Gor. The 16-time Kenya Premier champions were the better side, dominating possession in the game which youthful Sony Sugar goalkeeper Kevin Omondi was arguably the ‘Man of the Match’ as he kept marauding Gor Mahia strikers at bay on several occasions, restricting them to a single goal. Omondi’s opposite number, who is also and Harambee Stars goalkeeper, Boniface Oluoch, was untroubled in goal. The millers attempted only two shots on goal and that is as far as they would go. Rwandese import Meddie Kagere would have put Gor in the lead barely four minutes into the match but headed wide. Omondi pulled off two quick saves from veteran midfielder Humphrey Mieno as Gor Mahia sought to break the deadlock. Guikan, who replaced Jaques Tuyisenge in the starting line, headed wide from Geoffrey Walusimbi’s cross while Omondi again pulled off a sterling save to deny Kagere in the 30th minute. Guikan slotted Innocent Wafula’s cross from the right in the 38 minute to the delight of the sizeable K’Ogalo diehards who thronged the stadium. In the second half, Sony’s Clinton Omondi’s tame shot was saved by Oluoch. Omondi again failed to hit the target from a free kick as the hosts tried to get an equaliser. Omondi was later substituted for Stephen Ouma. Guikan would have added his goal tally in the 64th minute but the outstanding Omondi in the Sony goal denied him from the rebound as a result of Kagere’s effort. The Ivorian, however, thought he had scored his second in the 88th minute but referee Yassin Bard ruled out the goal, adjudging Gukan to have handled in the box. It was not Kagere’s day as he wasted two more clear cut chances in the dying minutes. Gor Mahia head coach Dylan Kerr rued missed chances but said his charges played well and kept possession in the entire game. “We always want to press and score goals and the players did exactly that today. Yes we would have scored three or four goals but this is football anything can happen,” said Kerr. Sony Sugar Patrick Odhiambo said his tactics of staying behind the ball worked in restricting Gor Mahia strikers. “In the first half, we stuck at the back to avoid opening up the game. We created a few chances in the second half but we were not luck,” said Odhiambo.