The World Press Freedom Day set to be marked today is a key annual event in the calendar of the media industry, not just in Kenya but worldwide. It provides the media fraternity, and indeed those who believe in and cherish the freedom of the Press, with an opportunity to celebrate independent journalism and reflect on the challenges journalists and media institutions continue to face in the course of their work. The Kenya Editors’ Guild joins the rank of journalists worldwide in taking stock of the happenings in the media landscape with a view to building on the gains made while seeking a remedy in areas where crucial ground has been lost. But as journalists and media institutions mark this great day, Kenya finds itself in a not so savoury spot, following the latest report by the globally acclaimed Reporters Without Borders lobby group, which has ranked Kenya at number 96 on media freedom among other nations of the world. Its sister states in East Africa – Tanzania and Uganda – fared no better, with rankings of 93 and 117 respectively. This ranking, which compares so dismally with that of the Nordic nations of Norway and Sweden – rated first and second respectively in the same index - shows that Kenya and the East African states have a lot of ground to cover in terms of meeting the global benchmarks for media freedom. The rankings illustrate the fact that journalists in Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda are facing serious threats in the course of their work, falling standards of constitutionalism, and challenges to the rule of law. To all intents and purposes, this year’s World Press Freedom Day finds the media industry in Kenya at a crossroads. The event comes on the heels of the August 8, 2017 General Election, arguably one of the most politically charged and highly polarising elections the country has ever witnessed. The lengthy electioneering, compounded by the annulment of the presidential election by the Supreme Court on September 1, 2017, not only tested the tenacity of the country’s jurisprudence, but also proved to be a litmus test for the media industry. For individual journalists the period was a depressing one indeed for they were routinely subjected to harassment, physical attacks, threats and intimidation by various actors, including the government, security agents, politicians and political parties and their supporters. A umber of them suffered psychological trauma and physical injuries, which could have long-term effects. Clearly, the security and safety of journalists in Kenya is under threat. This affects the quality of press freedom in Kenya, an imperative that is enshrined in the 2010 Constitution. In essence, the actions of state and non-state actors threaten the freedom of the media. This reality is detrimental to constitutionalism, democracy and the rule of law. Depending on the coverage they accorded news events, journalists were variously viewed as biased by sharply-divided political antagonists who were only too eager to blame them for any misfortunes their political camps suffered. If the electioneering period proved to be a tough call for journalists and the media industry in Kenya, the tail end of it all proved to be no less painful. Following the January 30 mock swearing-in of National Super Alliance presidential candidate Raila Odinga as the “People’s President”, a crackdown targetting the broadcast media ensued. In one fell swoop, four leading privately-owned television stations were shut down for what the state termed their disregard of a directive not to carry live coverage of the ceremony. The 10-day shutdown cost the stations millions of shillings in lost revenues, and denied more than 80 per cent of television viewers access to information, as a number of editors and journalists faced a barrage of intimidation and threats of arrest by State agents. Journalists were again to bear the brunt of brutality of the State machinery when they were beaten up and kicked out of Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on March 26, 2018 as they covered the return of an opposition figure who had been deported following the January mock swearing-in ceremony. Images of television journalists curled up on the ground, bleeding but clinging to their cameras, spoke volumes about the vulnerability of journalists and the total lack of respect by state actors for media freedom. That this was done in the full view of the world, certainly did little to project Kenya as a country with any modicum of respect for its media and the free space they need to discharge their duties. Without a doubt, it is such acts of wanton violence against journalists that contribute to Kenya’s poor showing in press freedom rankings by organisations such as Reporters Without Borders. It is the firm hope of the Kenya Editors Guild that this is the last such episode of blatant violation of the freedoms enjoyed by the media that will ever be witnessed in this country. Indeed, as a new team takes over at the Guild following its elections a fortnight ago, it does so with the resolute determination to make the entrenchment of media freedom a key, if not central plank of its multi- faceted agenda. As the foremost body for senior journalists in this country, the Kenya Editors’ Guild undertakes to engage in open discussions with all players in the media industry, the State and its agents, Legislature, Judiciary and other key institutions in the country to place the issue of media freedom at the core of the country’s democratic governance. We commit to professional standards, enshrined in our Code of Conduct and underpinned by fidelity to accuracy and verification. This exercise of editorial responsibility must only work to serve utmost public good in Kenya’s growth and development. The Kenya Editors’ Guild shall shortly unveil several programmes that speak to improvement of the quality of our journalism to ensure the ends of our democracy are served effectively. Similarly, and in the spirit of the World Press Freedom Day, the Guild hereby asks President Uhuru Kenyatta to demonstrate his commitment to the rule of law by ensuring the media are allowed to operate in an environment free of intimidation, threats and attacks. Two pieces of legislation offer immediate opportunity for the President: The Access to Information Act (2016) was enacted to give meaning to Article 35 of the Constitution as a right to citizens. However, two years since it came into force not one government agency has complied with it, especially on regulations. Secondly, the Computer and Cybercrimes Bill has just been passed by the National Assembly to much outcry by sections of society, especially on provisions on fake news which on the face of it may be open to abuse. The Guild is currently reviewing the version of the Bill as passed and will be issuing a comprehensive statement shortly. It is imperative that the government not only commits itself to press freedom in word, but also in deed by ensuring that journalists are accorded the necessary space, autonomy and protection to carry out their work. Only in this way would it ring loud and clear across this great country that media freedom is a key pillar of our democratic governance and that a country that allows this freedom to thrive reaps the numerous gains that come with. Finally, we ask all to respect the independence of media. It is a prerequisite of free media that journalists be allowed to operate without undue influence by government, political or commercial interests. As the new leadership of Kenya Editors’ Guild, we are committed to fearlessly, with candor, serve the truth, the public and public interest.   