Kenyans have raised concern over the deplorable state of Nairobi roads in the wake of heavy rains that make matters worse. A video shows a group of people falling from a handcart they were using to cross a flooded street, mirroring the desperate situation. In the undated video, hell breaks loose after the handcart puller accidentally misses a step in the mire, causing the passengers to fall in dirty water. The situation is the same in Nairobi's CBD and estates where thoroughfares have started to give way following the rains that started in March. Read: City residents concerned over poor roads, stalled projects  A man walks on Moi Lane in the Nairobi CBD following heavy rains. /COURTESY  A section of Tom Mboya Street in the Nairobi CBD as pictured after heavy rains. /COURTESY City residents have vented on social media over the deterioration as counties and national government trade blames over who is supposed to take responsibility. Governor Mike Sonko, in a tweet on Tuesday, said he has no choice but to repair some roads in the city yet the same fall under Kenya Urban Roads Authority (Kura). On the same note, the sections the Governor repaired using an instant pothole filling machine, which the county acquired in February at Sh100 million, have been washed out. The Governor has released a list of 58 roads and lanes in the CBD, totalling about 34.6 kilometre, that are under KURA and are in a sorry state. A section of the badly damaged Tom Mboya Street, that is currently dotted with potholes, had been fixed using the Avery East Africa's machine.  A section of Tom Mboya Street in the Nairobi CBD as pictured after heavy rains. /COURTESY A section of Tom Mboya Street in the Nairobi CBD as pictured after heavy rains. /COURTESY "The machine was just filling the potholes with loose chippings which are easily swept away when it rains. Most of the big potholes in the CBD were filled," a resident said. Beyond the CBD, areas such as Eastleigh, Ngara, South C, South B, Enterprise and Lusaka roads still pose difficulties whenever it rains. Read: Nairobi patches CBD roads in minutes, pledges no potholes in 2018  Motorists wade through a flooded street in Westlands, Nairobi. /COURTESY The situation is the same on Juja Road, Mbagathi Road, Ongata Rongai, Lang'ata Road, T-Mall Roundabout, Westlands/Peponi Road, Ojijo Road, and Ngong Road. Highways such as Mombasa Road, Uhuru Highway, Jogoo Road and Limuru Road have equally been affected, leading to traffic snarl-ups in the said routes. KURA spends Sh1.2 billion from the Road Maintenance Levy Fund for routine and periodic maintenance of roads in Nairobi each year. Click here for the latest political news