PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta’s sentiments during the Wednesday State of the Nation Address that he did not agree wholly with NASA leader Raila Odinga in their unity pact seem to not have been received well by some ODM stalwarts. Word has it that the ODM lawmakers were heard in the corridors of Parliament wondering whether their leader is caged in a raw deal with the top Jubilee leader or not. The MPs are eager to know what the deal entails after Uhuru (pictured) failed to touch on the pact during his address. Matters have been made worse because the 14-man team spearheading the handshake deal has no legal backing in law. The names are yet to be gazetted. CORRIDORS has overheard that a senior Nasa politician was up until the last minute to take up a big role in the bridge building mission by President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. Our mole tells us intervention from another powerful player within Jubilee, however, saw the outspoken Nasa man’s name dropped from the list of people to help oversee the bridge building process, which caught most politicians flatfooted. The Nasa man, a long serving politician, was to hold a senior supervisory role in the Kenyatta-Odinga pact, but that did not sit well with some members of the ruling party. They fought tooth and nail to curtail the planned appointment. DESPERATE moments call for desperate measures. Word on the streets is that a bad-tempered advocate, commonly known for living large, is frantically looking for Sh200 million to influence the outcome of a petition. Those in corridors of power claim the vocal lawyer was in a top city and Upper Hill hotels on Saturday and Sunday respectively with people he believes will help him. The vocal lawyer was overheard bragging how his influence is big in the corridors of justice. He went ahead to lay bare what he believes is a top notch game plan to influence the outcome of an ongoing legal battle. Only time will tell. WHAT is it with Opposition Chief Raila Odinga and politics? Well, some people think he remains the pacesetter in the country, despite the fact that he has been unable to clinch the presidency so many times. A senior government official from the office of the President was heard questioning why prominent politicians are copying Raila since his surprise handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. After meeting retired President Daniel Moi, everybody else, including Deputy President William Ruto have been frantically trying to meet Moi. Ruto’s predecessor and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has publicly stated his desire to meet Moi. Kalonzo recently met Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko after Raila did the same. Click here for the latest political news