Holidays are a time for students to bond with family. But for one family in Baringo North, the April holiday was marked by painful silence, after their son was killed by a snakebite. Memories are still fresh in the mind of Sammy Kipsang, 27, after he lost his son, Nicholas Kipruto, 7, in December last year. Kipruto was headed to class two this year. “His health was good and I was determined to support him to grow up like any other child,” Kipsang said. Barsiso Primary School head teacher Joshua Komen said the bright boy emerged position two out of 24, adding that he lacked words to tell his 180 pupils when school opened in January. Some pupils attended the boy’s burial. “I had to take heart and tell them the truth that their colleague died after being bitten by a venomous snake during the December holiday,” Komen said. He profiled Kipruto as jovial, friendly, punctual, hardworking and determined. PAINFUL DEATH Kipsang said his son was alone, herding the family cattle in a nearby farm, when he was bitten. “I was at home doing some chores when I heard a child scream. I rushed to the farm and found my son lying down in pain and crying out for help,” he said. Kipruto was clutching the ankle of his right leg. He said he was bitten by a huge snake and pointed at the bush where it slipped. The swampy farm was covered with greenish reeds that made it impossible to see the killer reptile. With the help of village youth, Kipsang rushed his son to the nearby Poi Dispensary. Unfortunately, the facility didn’t have anti-snake venom drugs. Due to poor roads, Kipsang trekked uphill, carrying his son by the shoulders to Kipsaraman Mission Dispensary 15km away. The facility also lacked anti-venom drugs, so they were referred to Baringo North Subcounty Hospital in Kabartonjo town, 19km away. “I was confused,” he said, adding that there was no single ambulance around the facility, and he had no single coin to pay matatu fare. Kipsang ended up calling the area Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA John Aengwo and telling him his son was dying. “He rushed immediately with his private vehicle and drove us to the hospital,” Kipsang said. Kipsang recalls vividly well how death befell his son minutes past 12pm, while he was lying for treatment at his sickbed in Kabartonjo Health Centre. “He suddenly jumped over my chest and got hold of my neck, vomited and died,” Kipsang said amid sobs. Up to now, the young father is yet to come to terms with losing his firstborn son to the vicious snakebite. Kipkata chief Isaac Tobolee said snakebites have become rampant, as three children lost their lives between September and December last year. Tobolee said it is now rainy season and the snakes, among other dangerous reptiles, have migrated from the cold forests to find warm avenues in people’s homes. “They are also hunting for rats in and around farms, where children herd livestock during holidays and weekends,” he said. “We cannot fight and finish them off because they are very many, so we call upon the Kenya Wildlife Service to intervene.” NO DRUGS, AMBULANCE MCA Aengwo said he was forced to use his personal car to help after failing to get an ambulance from the county government. “I called and I was told the one for Kabartonjo Health Centre has been in garage, undergoing service now for a week. And network problems made it was impossible to negotiate for the one for Bartabwa Health Centre,” Aengwo said. He accused the county government of not equipping health facilities, saying it is shameful and dangerous that a dispensary lacks the most crucial anti-snake venom drugs. The MCA also condemned the state of roads, saying they are marred with steep terrains, making it impossible to attend to emergencies. Aengwo accused KWS wardens of taking too long to visit the scene and help hunt for the stray snakes, saying they always come the day after an incident has occurred. “In most cases, junior officers are assigned to solve such major incidents like snakebites, when the people expected the officers in-charge on the ground so they could tell them their grievances, like compensation,” he said. HUNDREDS KILLED In Baring alone, 140 people, including children, have been killed by snakebites up to last year, according an NGO report. The Friends of Wildlife Nature Trust Conservation CEO Gilbert Kiptalam said several people are losing their lives or suffering permanent injuries due to rampant cases of snakebites, although many cases go unreported. Talam said Baringo county has many snake species as it lies on an arid and semi-arid area. He blamed the frequency of snakebites on scarcity of water and destruction of wildlife habitats by residents. Furthermore, residents lack sufficient knowledge on environmental conservation and how to perform first aid on a snakebite victim. The snakebite specialist said more than 40 victims are currently admitted at Chemoling’ot Health Centre in Tiaty and at the Marigat, Kimalel, Kabarnet and Mogotio health centres. He said a day hardly passes by without three or four people or a child being admitted to hospital or dispensary due to snakebites, urging the government to provide anti-snake venom drugs in all health facilities. “The government has no excuse as people keep losing their lives under controllable situations,” he said. KWS warden Dickson Tanui said there are cases of snakebites across the county, but denied they are as many as reported. He accused residents of taking long to report to them such incidents of wildlife attacks, saying they are always ready to help out. "We would encourage our people to be reporting such snakebite cases and other wildlife invasion immediately as they happen, fully accompanied by the exhibits, in order to reduce the complaints,” Too said. He said the county is expansive and marred with poor terrain, but asked residents and local leaders to assist snakebite victims in reporting incidents.   