Gor Mahia grabbed the chance to play English side Hull City after edging out bitter rivals AFC Leopards 5-4 at Afraha Stadium Nakuru. The match characterized by wastefulness in-front of goal had to be decided from post match penalties following a barren draw at regular time. The match dubbed Mashemeji Derby marked the beginning of tenure for new Leopards coach Rodolfo Zapata who was contracted to take over from departing Tanzanian Dennis Kitambi. Leopards settled for the game fast with the midfield trio of, Marvin Omondi,Wyvonne Isuza and Victor Majid dictating the play. Buoyed by the presence of the new coach at the touchline Leopards seemed lively and their and goal hunger where talisman Ezekiel Odera tested Boniface Oluoch Occasionally. His combination with budding Vincent Oburu caused Gor’s back line all sorts of trouble but the KPL champions remained vigilant in their rear thwarting all missiles directed to their goal. Despite paying under pressure Gor’s confidence grew as time ticked and their first chance came six minutes into the game when Bernard Ondiek rose high to head Godfrey Walusimbi’s cross but his header went wide. Ingwe’s quest for an early goal were dealt a blow as they were were forced to make an early substitution in the first half following Isaac Oduro’s injury in the opening 30 minutes with Moses Mburu introduced in the left back role. The two broke for halftime break with the striker from either sides heads down for squandering open chances. Leopards brought in Baker Lukooya for Brian Marita at the beginning of the second half to boost their attack while Gor Mahia summoned Rwandan strikers Jacques Tuyisenge and Meddie Kagere as the hunt of the opener continued. George Odhiambo was also sent in replacing Boniface Omondi. The introduction of kagere nearly bore friiuts in the dying minutes of the game as he was put through Ondiek but Leopards keeper Ezekiel Owade pulled a fine save. With Dylan Kerr sensing post match penalties to break the tie, he sent in goalkeeper Shaban Odhoji for Ouloch and this proved priceless as he saved Wyvonne Isuza’s spot kick. Tuyisenge blasted Gor’s opening kick but Odhonji perfectly redeemed him by saving Isuza’s Kagere scored for Gor while Odera netted for Leopards. Walusumbi, George Odhiambo, and Joachim Olouch scored their kicks as Leopards responded through Baker Lukooya, Duncan Otieno and Robinson Kamura to send the kicks to sudden death. Bernard Ondiek netted his kick while Vincent Oburu missed his to hand Gor Mahia a win and the chance to face Hull City. Following the win, Gor will now play against Hull City which hails from Hull, East Riding of Yorkshire, England on may 13 at Kasarani. This is part of the new SportPesa  sponsorship deal signed a week ago Click here for the latest political news 