When Beatrice Wanjiku fled Mai Mahiu during the 1992 election clashes, she lost her shop, land and livestock. A Good Samaritan gave her a place to stay for 10 months without paying rent, as she struggled to get back on her feet. The next two and a half decades have been a miserable attempt by the grandmother to make ends meet. “At my age, I work on people’s farms,” the widow, who lives in lower Matasia, Kajiado North, told the Star. To make matters worse, she is now forced to look after her son’s children. “My daughter-in-law left my grandchildren with me four years ago. She has never come to check on them, and neither has my son. The youngest was six months old when she was brought,” Wanjiku said, adding that she does menial jobs to raise the children. Wanjiku is among a growing number of elderly people wallowing in poverty. Now the government is hoping to change their fortunes. It has initiated a cash transfer programme, Inua Jamii, targeting people aged 70 years and above. The programme pays Sh2,000 per month but released bimonthly, when it has added up to Sh4,000. The plan also covers orphans and vulnerable children and persons with severe disabilities. Beneficiaries are enlisted after assessment. In African culture, the elderly are usually at the mercy of their extended family. However, urbanisation and shrinking resources have weakened social ties. Many old people find themselves left to their own devices. Wanjiku is grateful for the aid. The Sh4,000 she receives caters for her basic needs. Her concern is that transport to Rongai, where she collects the cash, eats into her stipend. Wanjiku hopes the state will place an agent closer to where she lives. She also hopes it will consider increasing the amount. NO LONGER RIDICULED Another beneficiary, Mwaura Wainaina, thanked the state for remembering the elderly. “Old people have no strength to work. Before the cash transfer programme was started, I lived from hand to mouth. But things have changed. I have bought livestock,” he said. "Conflict in the family has reduced. I don’t depend on my children. I am able to cater for my needs. Sometimes I help my children.” Wainaina, who also lives in Lower Matasia, echoed Wanjiku’s concerns about having to travel long distances to collect the money. Michael Ochieng’ is in the welfare scheme for persons with severe disability. Life is much better after he was enrolled in the programme. “The money has changed my life. I now have dignity. I have respect. I can now get credit without people worrying about how I will pay them back,” he said. "“In the past, people, including my family members, saw me as insignificant. They felt I was a bother and a burden. But not anymore. I am no longer ridiculed, I can afford better meals." Ochieng’ runs a shoe repair business. “I can now borrow money or take items from a shop on credit and pay later when I get my money. Creditors are not worried that I will fail to pay. This means a lot me,” he said. Previously, Ochieng’ could not provide for his family. When life became too difficult, his wife left him. But they have since reunited. He is now able to send her money for upkeep. Moreover, he has bought five goats and a cow. He plans to expand his shoe business. “The welfare fund is important. It has saved many people from abject poverty,” Ochieng’ said. ENROLMENT CRITERIA Volunteer Samson Karongo in Lower Matasia said the Inua Jamii programme still has a few teething problems, but officials are fine-tuning it. He said beneficiaries are required to register only once, or they risk being struck off the list. "Don’t be greedy, only register once. The system of paying beneficiaries is being improved. Loopholes for cheating are being sealed," he said. Karongo said it is not easy to deal with elderly people. He said men are rigid; they are hesitant to nominate their wives or children to pick their money if they cannot go themselves. They fear the money will not reach them. Their fears are not unfounded because some dishonest caregivers pocket part of the money. Karongo said 15,000 people have been registered for the Inua Jamii scheme in Kajiado North. Orphans are supported until they turn 18. Elderly people who receive pension are not eligible for the scheme. Karongo said if uncollected cash accumulates to Sh16,000, it is automatically returned. Beneficiaries are supposed to select where they can collect their cash: Kenya Commercial Bank, Post Bank or Equity Bank. A beneficiary can only change a bank after two years. CAPACITY BUILDING Africa Platform for Social Protection is an organisation that builds capacity for citizens, communities and beneficiaries to monitor delivery of cash transfer programmes in 27 countries in Africa, including Kenya. Programme manager Hellen Mudora told the Star the association is working hand in hand with the Partnership for African Social and Governance Research. The two groups have brought together actors in social protection to form a Community of Practice in Social Protection, called Utafiti Sera (Policy Research). The network represents researchers and policy actors who ensure appropriate policy and uptake occurs through programmes or legislation. Mudora said for cash transfer programmes to be sustainable, a subsidiary legislation should be enacted to guide administration of the existing cash transfers. In the last decade, the government has expanded coverage of non-contributory social assistance programmes under the Labour ministry. About 800,000 people are now covered. The number is set to increase after the universal pension for people aged 70 years and above was included. Mudora said whereas the political will to expand social protection is laudable, the rights of the beneficiaries remain precarious for lack of a specific law for cash transfers. Although the constitution provides for social protection as a right, the administrative aspect has not been strengthened. The Social Assistance Act 2013 has not been implemented. She said a law is important in determining the effectiveness and efficiency of social protection systems. It will cushion beneficiaries from political manipulation and determine the roles, functions and relationships between the institutional actors in the delivery of cash transfer programmes. Click here for the latest political news