A human rights organisations has urged Sudan to pardon a teenage girl sentenced to death for killing her husband as he tried to rape her. Noura Hussein, 19, is facing death by hanging as a Sharia court found her guilty of committing premeditated murder in April. Equality Now wants the government to drop all criminal charges against Noura and cease any further legal action to have her executed. In a statement on Tuesday, the organisation also asked for a review of the penal code on rape for compliance with Sudan's Constitution and international human rights obligations. "Enact laws that protect women and girls from all forms of sexual violence including marital rape and child, early and forced marriage," the statement read. Equality Now argued that the spirit of the law rather than the letter of the law should be followed, and that Sudan should adhere to international standards on women’s rights. Global director Yasmeen Hassan said: "This did not come as a surprise. Sudan is an extremely patriarchal country and gender norms are strongly enforced, It is a place where girls are allowed to be married at 10 years. "There's legal guardianship of men over women, women are told 'you have to walk a straight and narrow line and don't transgress'. 'The Constitution provides that the 'state shall protect women from injustice and promote gender equality" and that “all persons are equal before the law and are entitled without discrimination, to the equal protection of the law.” Sudan is also obligated, under several international legal instruments, to prevent victims from being criminalised and to ensure that men and women are treated equality in the eyes of the law. In Sudan, marital rape is not recognised as a crime and girls can be married off as soon as they reach puberty, which could be as young as nine or ten years old. The United Nations and international rights groups have also called on Sudan to pardon Hussein. The UN Women, UN Population Fund and UN Office of the Special Advisor on Africa on Sunday appealed to President Omar Hassan al-Bashir's government for clemency for her. "Reports indicate that she was forced against her will into marriage at the age of 16. She was raped by her husband while his three male relatives held her down," said a joint statement. "Speaking as the voices of women and girls of the world, we plead with the government of Sudan to save the life of Hussein." Campaigners said Hussein sought help from her family, but fearing reprisals from her dead husband's relatives, her father handed her over to the police. Hussein's lawyers said they are preparing to appeal against the court's decision and have until May 25 to do so. The case has attracted international attention. Social media users on Twitter and Facebook are sharing her story under the hashtag #JusticeForNoura, and a petition on change.org has attracted almost 300,000 signatures. Read: Amnesty International: Death sentence to rape victim cruel Click here for the latest political news