Christopher Young won the second round of the ‘KCB Road to the Masters’ series at the par 72 Limuru Club to lead next six lot to Karen Masters Pro-Am qualification. Playing off handicap 10, the home player shot 22 in the front nine and 16 in the back for a total of 38 stableford points. Ben Wandawanda became the second beneficiary of the wildcard ticket after winning the men’s longest drive. Other KCB Karen Masters Pro-am qualification tickets went to men’s winner John Karume, lady winner Grace Kimeria, guest winner Peter Kahuria from Nakuru and staff winner Peter Mwaura. Young, who received the overall trophy from KCB Bank Group Head of Corporate banking Timothy Kuria, savoured the priceless opportunity which will see him brush shoulders with local and foreign professional players in July when the KCB Karen Masters becomes the first ever event from Kenya to join the prestigious Sunshine Tour. “I’m overly excited to have won the second round of the ‘Road to the Masters’ and indeed the opportunity to play at the Pro-Am of the Karen Masters. I want to thank the sponsor for a fantastic tournament and all participants for making such a good day and turn out. Lastly, I want to thank the ground staff for the magnificent setup and I can’t wait to be at the Pro-Am of the Karen Masters,” said Young. Young started off with 4 bogeys but picked himself up when he parred holes 5 and six in the first nine. He also parred holes 13 and 18 to achieve a feat of a lifetime on the 6828 yard course. Handicap 19, Karume fired a total of 36 to emerged the men’s winner beating Tim Kiburi on count back. Grace Kimeria, playing off handicap 18, shot 35 points to win the ladies top prize ahead of handicap 16. Laureen Gibson, who carded 34. Peter Kahura, playing off handicap 19, won the guest prize with 42 points to his credit. KCB corporate affairs manager Peter Mwaura won the staff prize with a total of 34. First nine winner was K. Mukuria on 21 points while the second nine winner on 20 points was Moses Muchiri. Best longest drive lady was Rose Gitau while the nearest to the pin best man and lady were D. Mwangi and Patricia Wancongu respectively. A total of 250 players took part in the event. KCB head of corporate banking Kuria thanked all the golfers for gracing the Limuru round of the qualifier adding: “We are grateful to all the players who turned up for the event which is the second of the five tournaments culminating into the Pro-am of the KCB Karen Masters. We would also like to invite you to the next three events which will taken place in Eldoret, Nyali and Muthaiga,” said Kuria. The five qualifying events have brought good tidings to local amateur golfers with the overall winner, men winner, lady winner, staff winner, the wildcard winner and guest winner get automatic qualification to the Masters. The first batch of the six qualifiers from the opening leg in Ruiru were Christopher Kiai (overall winner), Michael Chege (men winner), Veronica Mwaura (lady winner), George Felix (guest winner), Bernard Kotonya (sponsor winner) and nearest to the pin men winner Ben Njuguna. Click here for the latest political news