Civil Society Organisations on Thursday demanded resignations of all cabinet secretaries heading ministries under investigations over different scams. The CSOs said CSs heading ministries accusations of theft, abuse of office or incompetence resulting in the misappropriation, loss and waste of public funds should vacate offices. The groups held demonstrations in Nairobi CBD. Investigations agencies are probing Sh9 billion scam in the National Youth Service where more than 50 suspects face prosecution and maize scandal at the procurement of maize by the National Cereals and Produce Board. The strategic grain reserve falls under the ministry of Agriculture. "Heads must roll as we escalate the political responsibility to the top. All CSs whose ministries are being investigated for different scams need to immediately resign whether or not they have been charged. It is not enough to arrest a PS, directors, managers and accountants," convener Mildred Owiso said. "We demand the resignation of all officers reshuffled after the theft, abuse of office and misappropriation allegations since 2013 to date. We need top level responsibility. Prosecution of people who stole hundreds of millions is not enough, we want all the money back." The activists also urged the state to compel banks to disclose the ultimate beneficiaries of the funds and support the relevant agencies in the recovery of the assets acquired. In their petition to judiciary and parliament, the activists said the banks that facilitated the scandals being investigated and their managers should face punitive actions and assets of those found culpable be seized. They also urged the Central Bank of Kenya to expeditiously freeze the bank accounts of the suspects. "The government must immediately undertake a forensic audit of the integrity and efficacy of Ifmis in facilitating sound public finance and the ownership and conduct of the companies involved in managing the system," Owiso said. Click here for the latest political news