Mt Elgon MP Fred Kapondi yesterday urged the government to lift the 90-day curfew in Mt Elgon. He said the gang leaders who terrorised the region have been arrested. The 6pm to 6am curfew was imposed on March 6 by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to enable security forces to arrest the criminals. More than 40 people were killed over several months. Police arrested suspected gang leaders Timothy Kitai, alias Cheparkach, in Eldoret and his brother Ngeywo Kitai in Kericho. Cheparkach surrendered at Eldoret police station after hiding for months. A Sh1 million bounty had been placed on his head. He was charged at Nairobi’s Milimani law courts, where police asked for more time to investigate. Kapondi said the curfew has led to the suffering of farmers and business people who have borne the brunt of the security operation. “Finally justice for the Mt Elgon victims will prevail. Many people lost their loved ones and those who lost their lives can’t be replaced,” he said. Kapondi told the Star on the phone that it’s only a matter of time before other criminals in hiding are arrested. FEAR SLDF RESURGENCE A source privy to the operation and who asked not to be named said the two most-wanted criminal leaders are facing interrogation at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations in Nairobi. Mt Elgon has been rocked by deaths, robberies and rapes attributed to unfair distribution of land in the Chepyuk Settlement Schemes in Chepyuk ward. The Lands ministry has started ensuring the land is equitably shared and owners get title deeds. Women and schoolgirls were raped, property destroyed, and livestock stolen and killed. The attacks in Mt Elgon had raised fears of a resurgence of the dreaded Sabaot Land Defence Force. It terrorised residents between 2005 and 2008 and more than 1,200 people were killed. The group was dismantled by a joint military and police operation called Operation Okoa Maisha. During the crackdown of the SLDF its leader Wycliffe Matwakei and several commanders were killed. Others were arrested and charged. Some are out of prison and residents fear they want revenge. Police have denied the SLDF is back, saying a criminal gang was behind the violence.