Mathare United and Kariobangi Sharks clash at Camp Toyoyo tomorrow in the highlight of the eight matches lined for this weekend as the SportPesa Premier League enters 14th round. The match, dubbed ‘Slum Derby’, brings together two sides who are not only hungry for the three points but also the bragging rights. Mathare under the stewardship of Francis Kimanzi come into the match aware that three points will see them go level with Gor Mahia at the top of the log. Gor are not in Premier League action this weekend as they battle Rayon Sports of Rwanda in a Confederation Cup encounter. Mathare, the 2008 champions have 24 points, three shy of Gor, who have two matches in hand. On the other hand, Sharks, under William Muluya will be aiming for nothing short of the three points which will propel them out of an unfamiliar 11th place. Since their promotion to the top flight last year, Sharks have beaten Mathare twice and will be seeking to extend their dominance. Today, Masita Masuta will seek to show Nzoia Sugar what they are missing when he leads Ulinzi Stars against the sugar millers at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. The lanky talisman joined the soldiers camp at the beginning of the season and has gone on to find the back of the net five times. Away at Awendo, Sony Sugar host Kakamega Homeboyz while a technical bench-less Chemelil Sugar welcome limping AFC Leopards. After posting two wins in a row, Tusker’s Robert Matano will be seeking to continue with that rich form when he leads his charges against Bandari at Mbaraki Stadium. Matano, who was brought in to save a sinking brewers side has breathed life into the club and victory today will propel his side into the top 10. Bandari will welcome back skipper Felly Mulumba after missing their previous match while on trials in Swaziland. Tomorrow, Thika United will start life without coach Nicholas Muyoti when they face debutants Wazito at Camp Toyoyo. The match which curtain raises for the slum derby. Another new side Vihiga United host a fading Sofapaka, who will be glad to have Umaru Kasumba back in the team after recovering from illness.14th ranked Zoo Kericho play bottom-placed Nakumatt at Kericho Green Stadium.