A senior manager at a parastatal in Adan Mohamed’s Ministry of Industrialisation and Enterprise Development is an aggrieved person. Corridors has learnt the official had recently come tops in an interview and was looking forward to a huge promotion and a plum job as Managing Director but was shocked when the position was filled by a different candidate. According to some of the junior officers within the organization, their senior was optimistic that he was the “heir apparent to the position” but was dismayed when a replacement was sought from elsewhere instead. The crestfallen man is now busy scouting for another vacancy in a parastatal in the same ministry so he can enjoy the perks that come with the implementation of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. ***** A top Jubilee official has remained tight-lipped as scandal after another rock the government. In fact, a KANU MP was heard asking why the man, known for defending the government with zeal, has all of a sudden gone quiet. However, there are whispers that the man could himself be having trouble with the taxman. Some of his colleagues have linked his woes to his clandestine opposition to the handshake. Two MPs who were animatedly chatting over the weekend concluded that the truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga has diminished their political fodder. Attacking, Raila, their favourite target, is no longer tenable. ***** Still on corruption scandals popping up, the Opposition leadership in Parliament seems to be in turbulence over its oversight of the Executive. Minority Leaders John Mbadi (National Assembly) and James Orengo (Senate) have not been as outspoken on the graft scandals that have come before various parliamentary committees. Before going on recess, Mbadi had told the House that the handshake between Raila and Uhuru would not deter them from their oversight of the government. ***** Did someone just block the appointment of two prominent politicians from South Mugirango from getting plum state jobs? Well, an MP from the region who has close working ties with the office of Deputy President William Ruto is said to be behind the frustration of former politicians. Corridors is informed that in the latest move, the lawmaker is said to have influenced the expunging of names of the two politicians who badly need a job to make their ends meet. Corridors has learnt that it is a matter of time before the two jobless politicians land jobs. The local MP is said to be trying to broker a deal that would enable the MPs find something to do.