Ten days ago, National Youth Service director Richard Ndubai stepped aside to pave way for investigations into the Sh9 billion scandal at the service. He was arrested on Monday, after being implicated in the scandal, following a multi-agency operation targeting the masterminds of the graft at the agency. Ndubai took over the position on January 19, 2016, after the Sh791 million scandal that hit NYS. The figure was revised to Sh1.8 billion by MPs. So, who is Ndubai - the senior officer to be arrested so far over an Sh9 billion scandal? Read: NYS boss Richard Ndubai, three senior officials arrested over Sh9bn scandal The Kirinyanga-born former PS holds a PhD of Philosophy in Performance Contracting, Measurement and Public Service Delivery from the University of Nairobi. Ndubai holds a Masters in Public Administration (MPA) from Harvard University, Massachusetts, USA. He did his Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting - Honors) at the University of Nairobi. He has risen through the ranks since 1977 where he started his career as Sales Tax Inspector at the Ministry of Finance. In 1982, he worked as a Senior Principal Inspector of State Corporations at Office of the President before moving to the position of Principal deputy director of Personnel Management at Office of the President in 2002. He worked as the Secretary, Performance Contracting at Office of the President from 2008 when he was promoted to Permanent Secretary, Public Sector Reforms & Performance Contracting, Office of the Prime Minister. While he was a Permanent Secretary, his job was administering and coordinating implementation of performance contracts in the public service. During his tenure, Ndubai administered introduction and implementation of performance contracts in the public service in Kenya in all state corporations, government ministries/accounting departments, local authorities/municipalities, and 71 tertiary institutions. He has worked in various positions with the United Nation such as UNECA consultancy assignment with Government of Namibia to prepare performance contract between the President and Cabinet Ministers. Ndubai has also spearheaded a UNDP consultancy assignment with the Government of Malawi on Measurement and Evaluation of Performance. The Murang`a high school alumnus has several State decorations including the Chief of the Burning Spear (CBS, 2008), Moran of the Order of the Burning Spear of Kenya (MBS, 2007) and Order of the Grand Warrior of Kenya (OGW, 2005). He has attended various courses that include: Regulating Quality of Service – Planning Compliance, Monitoring & Enforcement - IP3, Washington, DC, 2007, Balanced Scorecard - Balanced Scorecard Institute & George Washington University (2006) — (Professional Balanced Scorecard Practitioner). Others are Certificate in Corruption Prevention- Marcus Evans - Johannesburg, South Africa (2002), Training Course on Staff Performance Appraisal in the Public Service-Kenya School of Government, Nairobi, Kenya, 2000 among others. Also read: CBK probes 6 banks over NYS payments Click here for the latest political news