NASA leader Raila Odinga yesterday declared an end to the seven-month-long consumer boycott of products he once said were linked to the 'undemocratic' Jubilee regime and alleged rigging of last year's presidential elections. In his Labour Day speech, the former Prime Minister also declared an end to civil disobedience and the 'Resist' campaign — symbolised by a clenched fist — that demanded electoral justice and change in governance following the two presidential elections last year. Now, it's all about cooperation. The ODM boss made the statesman-like comments at Uhuru Park a day before President Uhuru Kenyatta delivers his State of the Nation address today in Parliament. He is expected to elaborate on his handshake on March 9 with Raila and detail the concrete bridge-building that is supposed to heal and uplift the nation. Raila said the boycott had hurt the targetted companies as intended but he had forgiven them. He urged the nation to unite and move forward. The official collapse of his call in late October for "economic sabotage and boycott" appears to clear the final roadblocks from reconciliation with Uhuru. It's a plus for Raila and enhances his image. Read: NASA MPs target Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside in economic boycott Last year Raila accused Safaricom of abetting rigging through its network. "Big corporations are part and parcel of killing democracy in Kenya. We have the power and if they want to stifle our democracy, we can retaliate," Raila said at the time. Yesterday, however, the tone was measured and optimistic. "We have decided to work together with Jubilee for the sake of Kenya. In that regard, today, I announce the end of the boycott. I forgive Safaricom, Bidco, Brookside, and Haco," Raila announced. "Our people are at liberty to do business with those companies." "I did that (call the boycott) because I was bitter with the outcome of the elections. But we have agreed to work together with my brother Uhuru Kenyatta for the betterment of the nation," Raila said. Initially, the boycott caused some financial pain in opposition strongholds during a rough financial patch for the country. Safaricom was said to have lost many customers. But yesterday, there was silence from Safaricom, Brookside, owned by the Kenyatta Family, Bidco and Haco. Also read: Airtel gained 1.2m subscribers after Raila's Safaricom boycott call - CA When contacted for a comment about Raila's forgiveness and his end-to-boycott remarks, a Safaricom spokesman said, "No comment at the moment." Political temperatures have come down dramatically since Uhuru and Raila shook hands, agreeing to cooperate, promote development, address injustices and heal the nation's wounds. "We as NASA are in agreement with Jubilee on its plans for universal health coverage, food security, affordable housing, and manufacturing," Raila said referring to President Kenyatta's Big Four agenda. Also read: Handshake: I'm happy to see political temperatures come down - Raila The presidents of South Korea and North Korea "met at their border after following in the footsteps of President Uhuru and Raila," the ODM boss said. "Uhuru and I understand our people's problems and we have permanent solutions." Raila also called on the government to look for solutions on how to reduce the cost of living among workers. "If the workers' wages are increased, transport prices also go up rent and also school fees. The workers, therefore, do not enjoy the increase. We need to lower cost of living." he said. This year's Labour Day celebrations were dominated the Raila-Uhuru unity deal and calls for a referendum to change the system of governance to a parliamentary or other system of expanded governance. Trade union leader Francis Atwoli congratulated Uhuru and Raila for agreeing to work together saying that since last year, he has been pushing for the two to have truce. He described Raila as a great man. "When you are with Raila, you do not need any other support. There is peace in the country and the economy is flourishing. I am now a happy man because we can only achieve development if there is political stability," the Cotu boss said during celebrations in Uhuru Park. Atwoli called on Kenyans to support a constitutional amendment through referendum to create an all-inclusive government. "If we don’t amend this Constitution, where will Uhuru go? He's still young and will disturb other people. We must amend the Constitution to accommodate him somewhere," the Cotu secretary general said in Uhuru Park. "There is no way you can dismiss Central Kenya people from being inside government. They will be there in 2022," he said. Atwoli called for a return to the Bomas draft as a starting point. "The worse thing in politics the world over is when some people are left out in the cold after elections. We should have an accommodative Constitution,” Atwoli said. "This is the position of workers of because we don’t want fights all the time.” The Bomas draft of 2005 had proposed a President, Deputy President, Prime Minister and ministers. The Premier would head the Cabinet and be appointed by the President. It proposed two Deputy Prime Ministers and a maximum of 20 and a minimum of 15 ministers. Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed the referendum calls, however, saying they were championed by “greedy leaders”. As he wants to be President in 2022, Ruto doesn't want to inherit a weakened presidency dominated by a powerful Prime Minister, or a system in which he is obliged to share a lot of power. Atwoli also accused some politicians of inciting teachers to remove Wilson Sossion as KNUT secretary general. He said Sossion is firmly in office and Cotu and other workers will defend him from those who want him removed. "Those who are calling for Sossion's removal, who said that he cannot hold two jobs?" Atwoli asked. The fiery teachers' union leader has been under pressure to resign after he was nominated by ODM to Parliament as an MP. Yesterday Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja faulted Uhuru and Raila for not including youths in their unity deal committee. Speaking at Uhuru Park, he said the 14-member team announced on Sunday to "build bridges" lacked youth representation. "If the agenda is bringing Kenyan's together, it can't be done without involving youths," Sakaja said. The team includes Adams Oloo, Agnes Kavindu, Florence Omose, Mzee James Matundura, Maj (Rtd) John Seii and Bishop Lawi Mathiu. Others are Maison Leshomo, Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji, Morompi ole Ronkai, Bishop Peter Njenga, Rose Museo and Archbishop Zacchaeus Okoth. They will join the team co-chaired by lawyer Paul Mwangi for Raila and Martin Kimani for Uhuru. Click here for the latest political news    