US President Donald Trump
said on Tuesday there was a "substantial chance" his summit with
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un will not take place as planned
on June 12 amid concerns that Kim is resistant to giving up his
nuclear weapons. Trump raised doubts about the Singapore summit in talks with
South Korean President Moon Jae-in, who came to Washington to
urge Trump not to let a rare opportunity with reclusive North
Korea slip away. If the summit is called off or fails, it would be a major
blow to what Trump supporters hope will be the biggest
diplomatic achievement of his presidency, and a huge
disappointment for the president himself. "There's a very substantial chance ... it won’t work out.
And that’s OK," Trump told reporters. "That doesn’t mean it
won’t work out over a period of time. But it may not work out
for June 12. But there is a good chance that we’ll have the
meeting." Trump said whether the meeting will be held as scheduled
will be determined "pretty soon." "North Korea has a chance to be a great country and I think
they should seize the opportunity," he said. Trump's Oval Office remarks were the strongest sign from him
yet about the possibility of a delay or cancellation of what
would be the first-ever summit between the leaders of the United
States and North Korea. It was unclear whether Trump was truly backing away from a
summit that he is eager to hold or whether he was strategically
coaxing North Korea to the table after decades of tension on the
Korean peninsula and antagonism with Washington over its nuclear
weapons program. The original purpose of Trump and Moon's meeting was to
fine-tune a joint strategy for dealing with Kim. Instead it has
become more of a crisis session after Pyongyang last week
threatened to pull out of the planned summit. The White House was caught off-guard when, in a dramatic
change of tone, North Korea condemned the latest U.S.-South
Korean air combat drills, suspended North-South talks and threw
into doubt the summit with Trump if Pyongyang was pushed toward
"unilateral nuclear abandonment." "Trump doesn’t want to look like he wants this summit more
than Kim does," said Bonnie Glaser, an analyst at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "It’s a smart move to say that he is willing to postpone.
But to be credible, the president really has to be willing to
walk away and I’m not sure he is." MOON KEEN FOR SUMMIT Aides said Trump has privately been wondering whether Kim is
serious about the summit after the abrupt change in tone. Trump heaped praise on Moon as an "extremely competent"
leader despite some concerns voiced by U.S. officials that Moon
might be too willing to compromise with Kim. US officials have privately expressed concern that Moon,
eager to make progress with the North, may have overstated Kim’s
willingness to negotiate in good faith over the dismantling of
his nuclear arsenal. Moon was optimistic about the summit in his Oval Office
remarks. His national security adviser, Chung Eui-yong, had told
reporters en route to Washington he believed there was a "99.9
percent chance" the Trump-Kim summit would take place as
scheduled. Moon said he realised many were sceptical in the United
States about the summit "but I don't think there will be
positive developments in history if we just assume that, because
it all failed in the past, it will fail again." Trump on Tuesday reiterated comments from last week, saying
Kim's safety would be guaranteed and his country would be rich
if he denuclearized. But he said there are certain conditions that must be met
and if North Korea refuses, the meeting will not take place. He
said he would like a deal to commit North Korea to denuclearise
over a "short period of time." Before seeing Trump, Moon met with Secretary of State Mike
Pompeo and national security adviser John Bolton and urged them
to speed preparations for the Trump-Kim summit. Trump reiterated his suggestion that Kim’s recent meetings
with Chinese President Xi Jinping had influenced Kim to harden
his stance ahead of the summit. "President Xi is a world-class poker player," Trump said. The Trump administration is at odds with Beijing over trade.
Trump on Monday urged China, North Korea's main trading partner,
to maintain tight sanctions, tweeting that "the word is that
recently the Border has become much more porous." Tensions between the United States and North Korea escalated
last year as Pyongyang tested missiles believed capable of
hitting the US mainland. Trump threatened to "totally destroy
North Korea" if necessary and derided Kim as a madman and
"little rocket man" while Kim said the president was mentally
deranged." Click here for the latest political news