The government will spend Sh100 million on a five-day oral polio vaccination of children under five years. It runs from today through Sunday. Head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response Unit, Daniel Langat, said the door-to-door drive will cover 17 at-risk counties, including Nairobi. He addressed a meeting with health experts at a Nairobi hotel. In March researchers from Kemri and the Centre for Disease Control found traces of the virus in sewage samples collected in Eastleigh. That discovery prompted the inoculation campaign. “We are going to close 4th Street in Eastleigh [where the samples were collected] to avert any further spread of the virus to the community,”  Langat said. Director of Medical Services Jackson Kioko yesterday said 1,000 health workers will take part in the anti-polio drive. “It is unacceptable that we still have a fraction of under-immunised children in Kenya. In the 1970s we used to be a model country for impressive coverage,” Kioko said. cross-border surveillance Refugee children in Kakuma and Dadaab camps, from infants to those 15 years of age, will be vaccinated, he said. The people working in the camps will check the suitable vaccine for children. “We want a polio-free country,” Kioko said. Cross-border surveillance, will be increased, especially in Lamu, Garissa, Tana River, Mandera and Wajir counties bordering Somalia. A similar type of polio virus detected in the country was found in Mogadishu, Somalia, in October last year. Kioko said health officials have increased surveillance from every month to every week for early detection. World Health Organization country director Ruddi Eggers urged parents to take their children for vaccination. “We know this virus is circulating not only in Kenya, but also in the region. We are so close to eliminating polio. We should not let the recent detection hamper the fight,” Eggers said. Another anti-polio campaign will be carried out in June and July concurrently with Somalia. No polio cases  have been reported in hospitals.