*What is going on in Homa Bay? Two MPs — Millie Odhiambo and Peter Kaluma — have
complained that rumours of corruption in the county are becoming louder every
passing day. They claim that a member of the executive has in fact
told them funds are being fleeced by an unnamed cartel of
four. Kaluma says even some members of the county assembly have
joined the gravy train and so will not see, hear, say or act on any evil even where
there is glaring evidence in some cases. The two leaders, Corridors has learnt,
are now planning to ask EACC why it has not acted on evidence already forwarded
to it. They are also asking the Senate whose mandate it is to oversight the
counties to step in.  *Corridors is reliably informed that some of the people suspected to be
behind the new National Youth Service scam are working hard to destroy the
evidence linking them. Investigators tell us that some of them have tried to
hide documents and even made attempts to compromise the investigating officers
who have stood their ground. Those in the know tell us that the investigations
have reached zero hours and could be closed in a matter of days. We are told the
investigators, working closely with the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, are
determined to put together a watertight case — this time round.  *Is the EACC narrowing the net around two major cases? Word has it that the
anti-corruption agency is about to dispatch to the DPP files touching on some two
high profile men. It is not clear who the people are and charges they are
likely to face but sources say they are substantial.  That Governor Mike Sonko is under pressure is not a secret. What is,
however, is what functionaries in the presidency could be planning without
his knowledge. Some people close to the the establishment are said to be planning
ways of taking over key functions of the county and handing them to other
government agencies. It is not clear whether the President is aware of the
moves but those behind plans are powerful and believe their actions will “save”
Sonko.  Still on matters Sonko, we are told that Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako
Tobiko is unapologetic for the protocol breach at last Saturday’s launch of the
national tree planning exercise at Moi Forces Academy. The CS, we are told,
believes that the governor is not to be taken seriously. Tobiko skipped Sonko on the
programme and proceeded to invite the DP William Ruto to speak and
introduce the President.         