Newly appointed Harambee Stars head coach Sebastian Migne has insisted that Kenya stands a chance of making it to the 2019 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) despite losing the first Pool ‘F’ qualifier match. Migne, who was unveiled yesterday as the new boss alongside his assistant Nicolas Bourriequet, said Kenya had the qualities to return to the continental showpiece after 14 years of absence. The former Congo Brazzaville coach was handed a three-year contract to take over after stand-in coach Stanley Okumbi was relegated to the U-20 national team following a series of dismal performances. Okumbi had earlier been handed the managerial role albeit on interim basis following the controversial exit of Belgian Paul Put who threw in the towel citing “personal reasons.” Speaking during his unveiling, Migne expressed confidence in progressing to the Afcon finals with Kenya is pitted against West African giants Ghana, Ethiopia and Sierra Leone in the qualifiers. “This is a new challenge for me and I am ready to start the job this Sunday. I am aware we lost our first match to Sierra Leone but we still have a chance of making it to Cameroon. We play Ghana in our next match and I know they are beatable. I faced them with Congo Brazzaville where we played to one-all draw and I think it’s possible to silence them. Ethiopia too are a great side but we can supplant them and book a place in the finals.” Migne, who is privileged to have worked under experienced and revered Claude Le Roy as his assistant while at Togo and Congo, promised a fair selection of players in the national team duties. “No one is guaranteed a place in the national team whether he plays in the local league or abroad. I will be meeting local players to asses them in friendly matches and later I will meet those who ply their trades overseas,” he said. The new Stars boss is set to be joined by a goalkeeper trainer Guillaine Coffey and fitness doctor Ludovic Breul later Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa assured the new tactician of his support and that of the Ministry of Sports who endorsed the move by FKF to hire him alongside his four foreign assistants. “I am glad to announce Sebastian Migne as the new coach for the next three years. He brings quality and experience to Kenyan football and with him around, our chances of qualifying to 2019 Afcon are high. I have discussed with the ministry and they have assured me of their support. We expect him to work closely with the U-23 head coach Francis Kimanzi and U-20 coach Okumbi.”