President Uhuru Kenyatta will lead Kenyans on a national tree-planting drive on Saturday, State House spokesperson Manoah Esipisu said yesterday. The drive is aimed at increasing the forest cover. “The President will lead this exercise, accompanied by Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, at the Moi Forces Academy in Nairobi. We encourage every Kenyan to plant a tree on that day,” Esipisu said. On boosting continental trade, Esipisu said the National Assembly last week ratified the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and arrangements are underway to submit it to the chairperson of the African Union Commission in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. “The AfCFTA will create a single continental market for goods and services,” he said. At the moment, Esipisu said, intra-Africa trade is estimated to be around 12 per cent, which is relatively low compared to other regions of the world. The establishment of the AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-Africa trade to 22 per cent by 2022. The African continental population is expected to hit two billion by 2050. Read:Uhuru to lead in tree planting exercise on May 12 “Intra-European trade is estimated to be around 60 per cent, while that of Asia is about 40 per cent. This will provide substantial economic and social gains to Kenya,” Esipisu said. Kenya, he said, attaches significant importance to the Tripartite Free Trade Area (TFTA) and the AfCFTA because of the huge market and investment opportunities they will create. The TFTA brings together member states of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), the East African Community (EAC) and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). At the moment, Kenya exports to Africa constitute 40 per cent of total exports — the bulk of which are value-added products. On the regional front, Esipisu said Uhuru will on Tuesday visit Namanga, on the border with Tanzania, to launch a One Stop Border Post (OSBP). Esipisu said the Namanga OSBP will boost trade by cutting the time taken to clear goods between the two nations and improve coordination between agencies. It will also ease movement of goods and people within the region, he said. Also Read:Lack of seedlings hurts plan to plant 25 million trees Click here for the latest political news