Ford Kenya has now said it is against calls for a referendum. It said the move is meant create positions for individuals and families. Without mentioning names, the party said Kenyans should first seek ways of reforming the IEBC. This emerged when the party’s women’s league converged in Gilgil, Nakuru county, at the weekend to plan the way forward. Party leader Moses Wetang’ula wondered how the referendum would be carried out without a working electoral commission. “The IEBC currently constitutes three commissioners, meaning they cannot hold a referendum, thus rendering the current calls irrelevant,” he said. Wetang’ula said the planned referendum was meant to benefit a few individuals. He said Kenyans need other reforms and not a referendum. Details: Referendum risks dividing Kenyans further, Western Jubilee leaders caution Raila Read: Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge INDIVIDUAL GAIN “We want a united Kenya and we are opposed to ongoing plans to hold a referendum so that few individuals from certain families can get positions,” Wetang’ula said. He said the country should concentrate on revamping institutions of governance by strengthening and making them independent. On the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and NASA leader Raila Odinga, Wetang’ula said all Kenyans should be involved in negotiations. parliamentary group meeting. Wetang’ula sent condolence messages to families who lost their loved ones during the Solai tragedy in Nakuru on Wednesday. Women’s league chairperson Cynthia Mutere described the Solai incident as shocking. She said the government should compensate the affected families and put measures in place to avoid a similar tragedy in future. Mutere said the referendum seeks to benefit individual interests and perpetuate political dynasties. She said changes need to be made which will benefit all Kenyans including women, youths and people living with disability. Mutere called for affirmative action. More: Ford Kenya MP Wafula Wamunyinyi opposes Raila's calls for referendum Also see: Orengo takes over Minority leadership, Wetangula ousted Click here for the latest political news