Residents of Kiserian and Ongata Rongai in Kajiado have protested the poor state of infrastructure, noting at least eight people have died amid heavy rains. In a demonstration on Tuesday, they prayed at Kwekwe Bridge on the road to Kiserian from Ongata Rongai, lighting candles and observing a minute's silence in honour of victims. Pastor Edward Ondati of Nairobi Chapel Church, Ongata Rongai, led the prayers for the people who died on May 3. On that day, other people died while using Kandisi bridge. "Eleven people have not been accounted since that fateful night," said Fred Gori, who is Chairman of Kiserian and Ongata Rongai Residents Association. "It pains us to lose people whenever it floods. This area has been totally forgotten by the leadership although it is only a 30-minutes drive from Nairobi." Read: Three drown after Ongata Rongai river bursts during crossing Also read: Eight dead after Ongata Rongai river bursts due to rains Residents of Ongata Rongai and Kiserian in Kajiado county, during prayers at Kwekwe bridge, as part of demonstrations against poor infrastructure, May 8, 2018. /KURGAT MARINDANY Gori said all the bridges on Kiserian-Ongata Rongai road have no rails so the risk increases during the rainy season. He gave the example of Kweke bridge which he noted was constructed at a cost of Sh40 million. A woman and her child were among those who died at this bridge on May 3. The chair said all the bridges that serve Ongata Rongai and Kiserian, including those on the main Magadi road, do not qualify to be called bridges. “Referring to them as that is dignifying corruption and incompetence. What we have are death traps, waiting for the next rainy season to claim more lives." Gori added that Ongata Rongai, Kiserian and surrounding areas are seemingly ignored in development, "an indictment on planners at the Olkejuado county council and its successor, the Kajiado county government." When Governor Joseph Lenku visited the Killer Fatima South Bridge in Kandisi to assess the damage and condole with the victims, he promised tough action against the contractor if investigations reveal the job was substandard. The residents' representative said: “We do not know what to make of the Governor’s statement. Most of us are not engineers. A few of us are. But even a primary school pupil can tell the work on that collapsed bridge was substandard. “We can say without fear of contradiction that it is the negligence of county government officials that claimed lives, leaving pain and regret among families and neighbours." He noted that with the rains pounding the area, pedestrians and motorists have been swept on overtopped bridges and by flash floods on what is supposed to be a major inter-county road. Click here for the latest political news