The lofty standards that Gor Mahia have maintained for the last one year will be required again tomorrow when the Kenyan champions face another stern test against Algerian outfit USM Alger in the second match of the group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup. Gor showed yet again that they are reaching a whole new level when they held English Championship side, Hull City, to a goalless draw in regulation time before losing 4-3 in a penalty shootout in the friendly encounter organized by SportPesa. They will need to keep up with those standards against USM Alger to keep their dreams of reaching the knockout stages of the competition. The Algerians arrived yesterday and were due to put up and the plush Laico Regency before the clash that will go a long way to decide who tops Group ‘D’ after both teams got good results in their first matches. While USM hammered Yanga of Tanzanian 4-0 in Algeria, Gor picked a crucial point in their draw away at Rwandan side, Rayon Sports. Coach Dylan Kerr will have a fully fit squad to choose from as towering defender Haron Shakava ran off a niggle he had during the Hull match. Upfront is where Kerr will have a massive headache. With Meddie Kagere and Jacques Tuyisenge set to start, it’s touch and go between George ‘Black Berry’ Odhiambo and in-form Ivorian Ephraim Guikan for the other attacking slot. The midfield will certainly have Ernest Wendo and Francis Kahata who, is enjoying the kind of form that made him one of the most sought after players almost a decade ago. It is Kahata’s ability to open up defence and threat from set pieces that will be key to unlock the notoriously tough-to-penetrate North Africans’ defence. But the fact that they will be playing in Nairobi in an evening kick off will hold K’Ogalo in good stead with the Green Army likely to flock the venue to watch their exciting side. Alger lost their last league match while K’Ogalo are yet to lose a game on domestic soil whether in continental, international friendlies, league or league cup matches. That alone leaves them favorites to pip the Algerians and top the group. Read: Gor Mahia succumb to Hull City on post match penalties Click here for the latest political news