Sports CS Richard Achesa and two Jubilee MPs from Western have opposed proposals to amend the Constitution to expand the Executive. The minister, MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) and Dan Wanyama (Webuye West) said creating new positions is not the only way to unite Kenyans. The leaders said during a funds drive in aid of boda boda riders at Webuye West constituency on Saturday that the vote risks dividing Kenyans. ODM leader Raila Odinga recently proposed a three-tier system of government, changes that can only be effected by a popular vote. But the western leaders dismissed Raila saying he is advocating for the changes "due to his selfish interests". They cited an eye on the presidency. The Opposition leader has declared that he has no interest in the 2022 election, and has held that his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta has nothing to do with the same. The president has equally steered clear of the 2022 debate and has been urging state officials to shelve premature politics and deliver his "Big Four" agenda. Related: Uhuru, Raila meeting won’t scuttle Jubilee 2022 game plan But Achesa said western will support Deputy President William Ruto's presidential bid. The youthful CS thanked Jubilee for having picked residents of western to serve in key positions in the government. "Western leaders and residents must open their eyes early and know the right direction before 2022 polls. Do not gamble with votes," he said. The CS lashed out at Raila accusing him of orchestrating the removal of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula from the Senate Minority Leader seat. "In 2013, our brother Weta stood with Raila and ensured he got votes from Mulembe. In 2017, he did the same and even shelved his presidential bid for Raila." "But what reward has he received if not for Raila to take from him  the small seat that we thought ODM had given him?" Achesa asked. At the height of Wetang'ula's removal, the NASA leaders steered clear of their involvement saying the decision was taken by Senators themselves. Word was that the Bungoma legislator was not a team player and "had failed to provide leadership at the August House." Wanyama, for his part, said: "Politics is now over and what electorates want is development that can change their lives for the better, not referendum politics." "Anyone who thinks that he will take Kenyans back to elections and bring a 'divisive' referendum is daydreaming." Washilali said that Uhuru and Ruto united Kenyans in 2013 without changing the Constitution. Also read: Ruto’s men worried by Raila’s pact with Uhuru Click here for the latest political news 