World Half Marathon record holder Joyciline Jepkosgei has set her focus on the African Championships in August after missing Volkswagen Prague Half Marathon in April. Jepkosgei rewrote half marathon history after setting a new world half marathon record of 1:01:25 in Czech Republic last year. “I missed Prague Half Marathon because I opted to represent Kenya in the World Half Marathon in Valencia in March,” she explained. Jepkosgei took silver in the race won by Ethiopia’s Netsanet Gudeta in 1:04:51 while her Kenya compatriot Pauline Kamulu came third. “I would have desire to compete in Prague but you know representing my country in Valencia gives me more pride than going to Czech to compete as an individual,” Jepkosgei said at her training base in Iten on Wednesday. She said she will use the Kenya Defence Forces athletics Championship in June to prepare for the African Championships set to take place in Nigeria’s oil rich Delta State. Jepkosgei also revealed that she intends to get into full marathon next year in Prague. However, she admitted that this will pose some kind of challenge but assured that she will work on it. She said: “I will be preparing for a full marathon but I am aware it requires a more rigorous training and experience.” Jepkosgei, who shifted from track to marathon in 2016, revealed that Copenhagen and Valencia races later this year will help her launch her bid for full marathons, where she will join the likes of Vivian Cheruiyot and Mary Keitany. “These are the best courses in preparation for a full marathon,” she said. She raised eyebrows with her 2017 performances, given that her personal best in 2016 was 69:07, which was a course record at the Mattoni Karlovy Vary Half Marathon in the Czech Republic. Jepkosgei also ran the Marseille Cassis Classic 20K in a course record 67:02. The race was won in 2014 in 70:04 and in 2015 in 76:01 by Peres Jepchirchir, who earlier in the year ran 65:06 for the previous half marathon world record and Jepkosgei took third. Marseille course features nine kilometers uphill. Click here for the latest political news