The reason corruption has become so entrenched is that from the political leadership on down, people are not really concerned. Of course, there's rhetoric about public service and leadership. But some people don't even bother about the rhetoric. Remember in the run-up to the election, we ran the red card campaign calling on agencies to play their role? In that process, the EACC compiled names of 100 people they believed had integrity issues, and this was explained to the IEBC. The EACC is the body charged with enforcing Chapter Six. Remember that after that report was submitted to the IEBC, nothing came of it? The IEBC did not bar anyone, even those whose certificates where expressly disowned by higher learning institutions. If we cared about integrity, that could have been an opportunity to rally political leadership around an important issue. Because we have leaders who have leadership issues, the people who work under them are likely to take their cue from their bosses. Essentially that's why it's easy for an ordinary Kenyan to be charged and convicted for stealing two mandazis from a shop — and somebody who steals billions of shillings ends up being a politician and a leader. You can only make the value judgment [whether the current crackdown is genuine] after seeing the quality of the prosecution. Investigation itself is outside the public sphere so you may not be able to know about the quality of investigations. But of course, in general, you can make a judgment on the entire process, depending on the success rate in terms of convictions and so on. For a criminal process, success comes in the form of conviction, which then leads to imprisonment or fines. I have nothing against what the new heads [DPP Noordin Haji and DCI George Kinoti] have done. I think they have done a fairly good job so far but remember they have only been in office for days. Hence, it's unfair and premature to make an assessment of their performance and abilities. The Executive Director of Transparency International Kenya spoke to the Star