Kenya’s economy remained resilient despite a troubling elections period last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta has said, noting 4.9 percent growth in the GDP. Uhuru noted the growth rate was much higher than the 3.6 percent World Real GDP and the 2.6 percent sub Saharan Africa Real GDP. "Kenya’s top foreigner earner, tourism, registered the biggest growth (20 percent) exemplifying the confidence that foreigners have in the country even during a tumultuous political times," he said. The President, however, pointed out that more needs to be done to take Kenya to higher global standings economically. The main focus should be investments and creation of jobs to beat poverty, he said. Uhuru further emphasised the need for Members of Parliament to support his Big Four Agenda which he said will push Kenya towards achieving its goals. “If you leave the house today with a clearer idea of your roles as leaders in this development programme, I will be the happiest man,” he told them. These remarks formed part of the State of the Nation Address he delivered at Parliament, before members of the both houses, on Wednesday afternoon. More on this: [State of the Nation speech]: Politics must revolve around service delivery - Uhuru Uhuru noted the Big Four was based discussions he held with Kenyans during the campaign period. The people listed their problems as being in the areas of housing, food security, manufacturing and universal healthcare. “By providing affordable universal healthcare, we will, quite simply, save lives. Already, extensive work has been done to bring access to quality and affordable health services,” Uhuru said. He noted that the number of health facilities incredibly grew to 11,000 by end of last year, from 9,000 in 2013. NHIF coverage widened from a membership of 3.8 million in 2013 to the current 7.2 million. Uhuru said the cover was expanded to expectant women, raising the share of deliveries by skilled attendants to 66 percent from 44 percent in 2013. The mother-to-child HIV transmission rate has fallen sharply as 94 percent of HIV-positive women who attend antenatal clinics have access to anti-retroviral drugs. The President said other health interventions, such as the mosquito net programme have seen malaria incidents drop to eight percent from the previous 11 percent. “Infant mortality has fallen from 52 per 1,000 to 39 per 1,000 live births and under five years mortality came down from 74 per 1,000 to 52 per 1,000. Maternal mortality dropped from 488 per 100,000 to 362 per 100,000,” Uhuru said. Kenya, however, needs to make strides in improving immunisation numbers which dropped from 90 percent to 70 percent. “I am happy to inform you that county governments are keen and willing to work with the national government on putting together a programme to up our immunisation to where we were, if not better,” he said. He also noted the need to extend NHIF coverage to 42,000 older persons and people living with severe disabilities. Read: Uhuru warns lords of corruption, wants proper legal tools Related: Forgive me for not uniting you, Uhuru tells Kenyans, makes up with Babu Owino Click here for the latest political news