Three trucks have been washed away by raging floods at Kainuk bridge in Turkana following a heavy downpour. The floods have rendered the Kitale -Lodwar- South route impassable. Director of Trade in Turkana James Lokwale said the heavy rains have caused traders and commuters heavy losses worth million shillings. "A temporary drift at Kainuk along Kitale-Lokichar- Lokichar, Nadapal South Sudan road corridor has been overtopped by flood waters," he said. This brings to six the number of vehicles washed away in the area since the onset of the rains. "Traders in major towns in this county are counting losses worth millions of shillings following a month-long pile of vehicles that are stuck at Kainuk drift after it was overtopped by flood waters," Lokwale said. Read: Kainuk Bridge swamped by floods, passengers stranded The price of essential commodities at Lodwar such as fuel and groceries have skyrocketed. Boda-boda operator Michael Ekutan in Lodwar said they are now paying Sh117 per a litre of petrol up from Sh101. "The price of petrol has gone up, for now, we are not earning anything., The government should speed up efforts of building a better bridge at Kainuk to ease transport." Ekutan said. Mama Lucy, a vegetable dealer said the prices of vegetables have also gone up. "One tomato retails at Sh20, from Sh10. I deal with perishable goods from Kitale. We are incurring heavy losses as a result of impassable Kainuk bridge." she said. Construction supplies like cement are out of stock in many outlets and many semi-skilled labourers are out of jobs. Deputy president William Rutto said the government has set 1.5 billion shillings for construction of a permanent bridge. He spoke during the Turkana Tourism and Cultural festival at Lodwar. "The Kainuk bridge that links Kenya to South Sudan, Ethiopia and Uganda will be fixed soon,We already have a contractor to work on." he said. Also read: Three stuck for hours after floodwaters sweep lorry at Kainuk bridge  Click here for the latest political news 