I was about to get fully engaged in social media. You know, raise my profile, expand my online presence, make an impact on the digital landscape and all the rest of that malarkey, when I came across something that told me I shouldn’t. Before I get started on any idea, like this one on social media engagement, I tend to do a bit of research, a How-To-for-Dummies study. So I did it for this idea, and what do you know, my Googling landed me on an entirely different and unexpected take on social media. We all know social media was created to help people connect with each other, get to know one another. Well, as it turns out, people do get to know you alright, and in ways you’d rather they didn’t. Forget the eyes; social media is now the window to the soul. According to research conducted mostly in the US and UK, with every post, you may be revealing much more about yourself than you realise. Whether it’s on Snapchat, LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, or whatever, it seems how you use social media puts on display your hidden complexities, and/or secret desires. The researchers are careful to point out that social media use is not a comprehensive way to assess one’s personality and any self-esteem issues they might have. After all, humans are more than the sum of their data but they do say that it offers broad strokes on who a person is. And broad stokes will do just fine when judging and being judged, won’t it? I mean, we do say first impressions create a lasting impression, like that’s a good thing. So, what does your social media engagement say about your personality and self image? People with a lot of Facebook friends says to the world, I have low self-esteem, and I really care about public perception. To compensate for the fact that I am self-conscious and that I don’t think I am great, I try to appear popular on social media. Extroverts do more of everything on social media than introverts. Upload photos, update status, use the like button, you name it; extroverts do more of it. So without ever having met a person, you can tell whether they’re extroverted or introverted just by looking at their social media activity. Open people — described as artistic, imaginative and creative — are likely to fill out their personal profiles most thoroughly. A positive image to put out to the world no doubt, but it doesn’t leave much work for stalkers to do when tracking you. Narcissists post frequently about themselves in an attempt to attract likes and comments that fuel their beliefs about self-importance. They seek attention and affirmation on social media and they love taking selfies, but only share the selfies that make them look most attractive. One study, titled “Capturing Personality from Facebook Photos and Photo-Related Activity” found that those most prone to stress and anxiety (highly neurotic people, that is) mostly post happy photos. It’s how they express themselves as it’s less stressful than comments and the nail-biting anxiety as they wait for other people’s responses. And speaking of the photos you post… Oh wait, I’ve run out of space. I’ll tell you all about it next week though, promise. I will say this, though, I’m not so gung-ho about expanding my online presence anymore.