An Ebola vaccine tested in Kenya might help stop the virus spreading in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The vaccine was tested in Kilifi in 2014 to assess its safety and its ability to provoke an immune response in the body. In total, 158 healthy people were injected with the vaccine in the phase one trial in Kenya, Gabon, Germany and Switzerland. Subsequent tests in Guinea, where there was an actual outbreak, showed it protects against Ebola for up to two years. The World Health Organisation now says this vaccine will be deployed to tackle the outbreak in Congo. Read: Kenya on alert as DRC Ebola outbreak kills 17 By last Friday, 34 Ebola cases had been reported, including 18 probable deaths, the WHO said in a statement. “I’m in contact with the Minister of Health and have assured him that we’re ready to do all that’s needed to stop the spread of Ebola quickly. We are working with our partners to send more staff, equipment and supplies to the area,”said WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom, who travelled to the DRC over the week-end. Kenyan's traveling to DRC cannot get the vaccine because it is still experimental and has not been approved for commercial use. WHO deputy director-general for emergency preparedness and response Dr Peter Salama said the first tests showed that this outbreak is in the form of the “Zaire” strain. In December 2016, the Lancet medical journal published results of the 2015 Guinea vaccination trial where the vaccine - called rVSV-ZEBOV because it protects against the Zaire Ebola strain - had 100 percent efficacy, giving hope it could be a game-changer in preventing Ebola from spreading. Read: No Ebola in Kenya, travellers to be screened at JKIA - Health ministry Kenya is not expected to make any travel restrictions to the DRC. Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki allayed fears that the disease could spread into the country. She said 100 officers have been deployed at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to strengthen routine screening of travelers. Screening has also been intensified at Busia, Malaba, Namanga, Wilson Airport and other entry points, Kariuki said. “The Ministry of Health affirms that there is no case of Ebola in the country. Further in order to mitigate the threat, the ministry has established the National Health Emergencies Council whose role is to act prevent importation of Ebola or any other diseases into Kenya,” the CS said. Touris, CS Najib Balala said team of health officers sent to DRC to assess the situation as was the case of Sierra Leone. “Our guest do not have to panic. The situation has been contained and as we speak there are no plans to cancel any planes from West African Countries. We do not have many travelers from DRC as the majority are from Nigeria,” he said. Details: Congo's Ebola outbreak kills 17 Click here for the latest political news