The Government has issued a stern warning to schools found engaging in cheating during this year’s examination threatening their closure. Principals will also not be spared following claims that some are asking parents to contribute money to buy “examination questions” for this year. Speaking during Kenya National Examination Council stakeholder’s forum at KICD Education CS Amina Mohamed appealed to parents and students not to be misled or duped into such fleecing schemes. She said her ministry will not condone cases where some teachers sneak into the precincts of school compounds with the single-most aim of helping candidates to cheat. "Let it be known that those caught will face the full arm of the law because we will not allow our education system to be undermined," On the flip-side, the CS said it will be impossible for anyone to breach the security systems already in place to access examination material. She said KNEC has improved internal systems through strict security mechanisms in test development, printing, packing and dispatch of examination papers.The council has also increased its staff to enhance efficiency. It has also invested in secure containers that have been installed in Deputy County Commissioners’ and Assistant County Commissioners’ offices. "This year alone, the council has installed 40 new containers to reduce the distance covered by Centre Managers to pick and drop examination papers. Cumulatively, these measures have contributed to the elimination of cheating through cartels and the consequent reduction of cases of cheating in examinations," she said. All eyes are on the CS to see whether she will sustain the implementation of the reforms initiated by her predecessor Fred Matiang'i. Yesterday she said her ministry will conduct unfettered and impromptu surveillance of all examination centres to monitor the examinations using combined teams of multi-agency government actors. To stamp out cheating, Principals appointed as Centre Managers will now be involved in witnessing the opening of examination scripts to ensure they are intact. They will also be required to work with examination officials to enforce examination rules, witnessing the sealing of answer sheets after examinations and keeping off unnecessary staff from school compounds during the season. The Kenya National Examinations Council Chairman Professor George Magoha also echoed the same sentiments adding that they will work closely with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to ensure security is assured throughout the examination administration period. He cautioned all school principals planning on opening the exams sheets to produce copies saying nothing will stop him when it comes to protecting the integrity of the examination system. "We have realized there has been collusion in some centres and I am assuring you this shall stop. Those principals working on creating their own command centres we are watching you and we want to see how far you will go. If you take that risk be prepared to deal with the consequences," said Magoha. Magoha lamented the unfortunate perversion by teachers who are hell-bent on misguiding candidates into cheating. He also took issue with candidates that cheat out of their own volition. He cited a case in which a school in West Pokot County went on rampage on Saturday night, demanding to be assisted to cheat in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) examination. The students had allegedly the students had planned a strike to protest 'non-cooperation' of their principal in the exam cheating scheme. He also assured Kenyan that this year’s exam shall not leak and he will be on the forefront monitoring the centers to ensure the exercise will be fraud-free, efficient, successful and most importantly, credible. In addition, Amina assured parents and candidates that schools affected by the heavy rains will be repaired to allow all national examinations to proceed as scheduled as damaged by the heavy rains that pounded the country. This year’s KCPE exams will take place between October 29 and November 1 while the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Examinations will take place between November 5 and November 30. Some 1,060,787 candidates registered for this year’s KCPE exams while 663,811 candidates registered for KCSE. KCPE will be conducted across 27,172 centres while KCSE will be conducted across 10,075 centres.