KCB’s quest for a return to the Kenyan Premier League got a massive dent when they fell 2-3 to Nairobi City Stars in a National Super League match at Camp Toyoyo yesterday. Bethuel Warambo opened the scoring for the bankers barely four minutes into the encounter. The forward, who was strategically placed, completed Zachary Gathu’s pinpoint cross. Warambo wittingly escaped the attention of his markers to slot the ball past the experienced custodian, Ronny Kagunzi, who had advanced in an attempt to thwart the threat but was short in his reaction. KCB were the hungrier of the sides as they kept knocking on their opponents door to no avail, buoyed by their early goal. However, their persistent pressure paid off 15 minutes into the match when Simon Abuko teed up Kennedy Owino for the second goal.The goal served as a wake up call for City Stars, who had been pinned to their own half, as their tactician, John Amboko demanded for a swift reaction from the touch-line. Stars’ gradually grew in confidence and somehow neutralised KCB’s midfield. City were handed a lifeline after 23 minutes when experienced skipper, Arthur Museve, released Sunday Katumba on the right wing. The forward floated in a cross into the KCB danger zone, which was met by an on-rushing Kelvin Okumu to score past Juma Kaseja to half the deficit. Unfortunately, in the 43rd minute, their tempo was slowed by an unnecessary substitution as Simon Ogutu limped off injured and his place taken by Peter Mwangi. Stars began the second half the stronger side and it was not long before a miscommunication between Dennis Gicheru and Kaseja allowed Katumba to head home City Stars equaliser. Both coaches threw in fresh legs as they sought the winning goal. Kamau brought on Brian Yator for Kelvin Migele while Erick Ochieng came off for Edwin Oduor. Amboko, on the other hand, rested Philip Simiyu for Abdulrahman Mango as Robert Ndungu paved way for Rashid Benjamin. After a lengthy push and pull, it was Michael Muchai who gave City Stars the last laugh as he tapped in a loose ball from Kamau’s corner in the 89th minute. Amboko praised his players for putting in a spirited fight despite conceding two goals in the opening 20 minutes. “The boys did well. They responded well and never gave up. Getting three points against a team of KCB’s calibre is not easy and I commend them for the good job. I call upon sponsors to come to our rescue as we face a big challenge in preparing and honouring matches,” said Amboko. His KCB’s counterpart John Kamau rued the numerous chances wasted by his strikers. “It’s a game of two halves. We created many chances in the first half but we could not bury the match. They had their chances and they made good use of them. We lost concentration at a crucial moment and we allowed an easy goal in the dying minutes of the game,” he said.