NASA chiefs have termed the ongoing arrest of corruption suspects as a smoke and mirrors attempt that will not net the real masterminds of the scandals. Co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula yesterday said the arrests were a "charade targeting proxies." They asked the government to prosecute the "big fish", saying corruption had mutated to a national disaster. “Other than insincere promises to nab the culprits, we do not see any serious commitment to get to the real masterminds of the robberies,” the trio said in a joint statement. Read : List of suspects linked to Sh9bn NYS scandal At least 33 people, including Public Service and Youth PS Lillian Omollo, have been charged with corruption at the National Youth Service as more cases of graft emerge. "We note with concern the shocking escalation of pillaging and plunder of public coffers abetted by the Jubilee regime,” the statement said. It was the first joint statement from the three co-principals after NASA leader Raila Odinga reached a deal to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta on March 9. On Monday, Uhuru declared a ruthless crackdown on corrupt public officers and business people, saying the government will not entertain unethical servants. But the NASA principals said Uhuru was insincere in his fight against corruption. “The President can only exonerate himself as CEO of complicity if he acts resolutely using the legal instruments at his disposal,” they said. The urged the government to get to the masterminds under whose watch graft has thrived. "Let there be no sacred cows, whether in the Presidency, Cabinet, at Treasury, Central Bank or in the business community.” They said corruption had dented Uhuru's pledge to stamp out graft. Government systems are breaking down due to “the weight of induced fraud,”they said. "It is no longer time to go for the small fish but those behind the veil of power because they are the real lords of corruption. It is only President who can bring the curtain down on these lords,” they said. The NASA leaders leaders said only high profile convictions that can wipe out the menace because "it is like cancer that has spread to all our core sectors." They accused the government of ruining the dreams and hopes of Kenyans through endemic corruption which has turned state institutions into cash cows for the anointed few. “All you get in the newspaper pages is a festival of plunder from Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline Company, Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Bureau of Standards, Kenya Ports Authority and others,” they said. Families and friend of employees at Kenya Power were found to have been awarded multi-million contracts. Also read: How NYS suspects tried to block arrest Fraudulent payments amounting to Sh1.9 billion was also unearthed at the National and Cereals and Produce Board with NYS topping the list of shame with a Sh9 billion scandal. “Creating other quasi-institution and roundabout political approaches will only help to mask the masterminds, create more opportunities for kickbacks and only punish the sidekicks,” the NASA leaders said. Click here for the latest political news