Ulinzi Stars head coach Danstan Nyaudo was left fuming as his bid to level points with SportPesa Premier League leaders Gor Mahia was dealt a blow following their 2-1 loss to Sofapaka at Afraha Stadium over the weekend. Prior to the match, the soldiers had 28 points— three shy of Gor —who were not in action. Goals from Sofapaka’s Umaru Kasumba and Kepha Aswani rendered Elvis Nandwa’s goal null and void. Nyaudo blamed the loss to failure by his charges to play according to his instructions. He said: “My boys didn’t take instructions and we also gifted the opponents two easy goals. My centre backs— Hassan Mohammed and George Omondi didn’t play well and we paid for it. It is a very competitive league and slight mistakes are punished.” His Sofapaka counterpart, John Baraza said: “The lads promised me a win and they delivered. They have given me what they promised and I am happy. The win is crucial as it gives us the momentum heading into the next match as we will face it with confidence.” “The win for Batoto Ba Mungu’ in their last match of the first leg elevated them to third with 28 points same as Ulinzi, who have a superior goal difference. Despite not being in action, Mathare United and AFC Leopards maintained their fourth and sixth slots with 27 and 25 points respectively. The two, together with Gor, had their matches rescheduled to pave way for the controversial international friendlies hurriedly fixed to gauge the readiness of the national team ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Nzoia Sugar head coach Bernard Mwalala will be elated to have finished the first leg with a 3-0 win over debutants Wazito who are placed with 26 points. Nzoia began the new season on the wrong footing, registering their first win after five rounds but have since regained their footing and defied odds to break in the top five. They boast of having the current league top scorer Elvis Rupia who has netted 12 times and has fully replaced Masita Masuta who decamped to Ulinzi Stars in January. Meanwhile, Nakumatt rose from the bottom to sit 16th following their 2-0 win over pre-match favourites Posta Rangers. Anthony Mwangi had Boniface Mukhekhe to thank as his brace saw Nakumatt record the first two wins in a row this year having silenced Tusker 2-1 a week ago. SportPesa Super Cup debutants Kakamega Homeboyz made light work of Tusker with a 2-0 win which catapulted them to the ninth rank. It was a sweet return for the trio of Allan Wanga, James Situma and Noah Wafula, who were axed from the breweries in January and found a new home in Kakamega. The loss for Tusker, which was the third in a row, saw them plummet three places to sit 13th with 19 points. Sony Sugar ended their 12-game win-less run with a 1-0 win over fellow millers, Chemelil Sugar with Stephen Ouma on target for the 2006 league champions. However, the win did little to steer Sony from the bottom of the log, where they are currently placed with 14 points. They are bound to accost Gor Mahia tomorrow at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Click here for the latest political news