Flying squad officers shot dead four suspected gangsters in Dandora on Saturday night. The shooting brings to 15 the number of suspected criminals killed in three weeks. The officers allegedly recovered a pistol stolen from a policeman based at Ruaraka police station. Officer Martin Korir was killed and his gun taken on the night of April 27 inside a Neo Kenya bus on Thika road. Robbers had taken charge of the bus and began robbing passengers including Korir’s two colleagues. Korir worked in SPIV, a special team of undercover officers who trace and kill notorious criminals. He shot twice on the bus’s roof to scare away the robbers. But they overpowered Korir, took his gun and shot him dead. On Friday, police gunned down 17-year-old Arnold Okong’o in Jericho in what is turning out to be a case of mistaken identity. A report at Jogoo police station said the suspect was identified as the son of infamous criminal Edward Shimoli who was killed by police in 2007. But it later emerged that Arnold was the son of All Stars FC coach Thomas Okong’o. However, Buruburu crimes boss Jeremiah Ikiao said whether the killed suspect was Shimoli’s son or not, he was a criminal in police records and had been warned earlier. A pistol was allegedly recovered from him. Ikiao said people at the scene of the killing told police the slain suspect was Shimoli’s son. "What we know, and it is in our records, is that the person shot [Arnold] was a criminal and had been warned several times by police. And if Shimoli’s son is still alive then he will be caught at another time," Ikiao said. Another three suspected gangsters were killed in a shootout with police in Dandora on May 4. Three pistols with four bullets, an AK 47 magazine with four bullets, crude weapons, a pair of police boots and a jungle hat were recovered from the suspects. Two of the pistols were home-made and the third a Ceska. A report filed at Mowlem police post said officers on patrol were informed four suspected criminals behind a series of robberies had been spotted at their hideout on Komarock road. Seven suspected gangsters were shot dead in Kitsuru on April 20. Nairobi police commander Joseph Ole Tito said they were part of gangsters linked to robberies in Karen and were on a mission to rob a businessman when the detectives caught up with them. Click here for the latest political news  