At least 38 people have died in flood disasters in Kitui,  according to a report by the Red Cross. The report shows victims drowned in swollen seasonal rivers. The report was compiled between April 27 and May 7. The casualties include four people who drowned after their Probox was swept away as they tried to cross River Enziu bridge in Nuu, Mwingi Central. The four had travelled from Nairobi and were heading to the burial of a relative. Their bodies were retrieved on Tuesday after a three week search. Red Cross official Husina Lukowe yesterday said they were still searching for the body of Peter Kisovo, a Machakos High School student who also drowned at a dam on River Enziu. He was swimming when the tragedy happened more than 10 days ago. National Youth Service personnel and the county’s disaster management team are helping with  the search. “We also had reports of people missing or injured in Mwingi North, Mwingi Central and Kitui South. Enziu River recorded the highest number of deaths,”  the report says. Rivers Tiva and Athi also burst their banks in Kitui Rural subcounty, displacing many families and destroying crops. “Houses were flooded and rendered inhabitable. Victims were advised to seek refuge in safe neighbourhoods as they awaited help from the county disaster team and humanitarian agencies,” the report says. 113 LIVES LOST Red Cross has appealed for aid. “They need food and shelter. Very little is sold at local markets following the disaster,” Lukowe said. Nationally, statistics show 113 people have died in the past two months and 260,000 displaced as raging floods wreak havoc. Weather experts have warned of more rain in the coming weeks, an unusual departure from traditional weather patterns. The Ministry of Devolution, the United Nations office in Nairobi and the Red Cross say 10 counties are the worst affected. “We are doing our very best to help all Kenyans affected by the heavy rains,” Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa told the Star on Tuesday from Benin where he was on official trip. Ironically, the counties worst hit are those previously ravaged by drought. Major roads, learning institutions, hospitals and community water systems have been rendered unusable. The catastrophe has raised the risk of cholera outbreak as latrines have collapsed or been flooded. Schools have been turned into shelters for those displaced.