You might have come across some grainy videos doing the rounds on social media recorded in a popular city club sometime back. In them, a portly young man in a white shirt held a wad of new banknotes. He dished them out to the delight of excited revellers. The young man, it is said, is the son of a prominent MP. A couple of years earlier, the scions of two leading political families were captured shooting cash cannons in the air. Money rained like showers of confetti. Freeloaders had a field day. When the bill came, it was to the tune of millions. According to Williams Group, a US-based wealth consultancy, 70 per cent of rich families lose their wealth by the second generation. Even more shockingly, 90 per cent by the third. One of the reasons is that parents do not talk about money to their children. As a result, many of the progeny of the wealthy don’t understand the value of money or how to handle it. In Kenya, the discourse on wealth transfer is considered taboo in many families. Consequently, many heirs come into millions without a clue on how to invest. Statistically, most will engage in profligate spending within 19 days of receiving money in their accounts. The most common purchase is the expensive car daddy never bought them whilst alive. But this conversation has ramifications beyond the immediate family to the country’s social, economic and political affairs. For a country whose backbone is agriculture, it is a truism that the bulk of our wealth is in land. Premium is placed on land ownership. Financial institutions favour landed properties as collateral for loans. Which is why there is cause for concern when the second and third generations begin to either sell arable family land or convert huge tracts to housing or commercial buildings. These generations were not taught to work on the land, or considered farming at odds with their indolent lifestyles. For them, passive income from rentals is much more attractive, despite returns being significantly lower. Lost to them is the fact that a single acre of well-farmed land could provide a livelihood for 20 people and their families. Also lost are the negative social implications of urban sprawl. But the notion of easy wealth with minimum work is not restricted to inheritance. It seems social mores have changed to include short cuts. Nothing exemplifies this more than in the political arena where tokenism is the order of the day. It defies logic when the CEO of a business in fine fettle resigns to join public service. This is especially when such a person has never been known to be public-spirited. Other than the desire to serve, the only other reason one would give this up is perhaps because of the potential to make more from various avenues available in government. A good number of those avenues are not legit. A flurry of handshakes got national attention recently. After last year’s bruising and divisive elections, the rapprochement between the Kenyattas, the Odingas and the Mois has brought great relief. Collectively, these families have influenced post-independent Kenya more than any. Uhuru Kenyatta inherited his family’s name and wealth. However, he has had to work extremely hard to create his identity away from the shadow of the family tree. Little is known about Jaramogi Odinga’s wealth. What is beyond doubt is that Raila not only inherited his father’s social democratic tendencies but also built them into a formidable brand. Whoever inherits this brand, with political acuity and hard work, will have a place on the national stage. Senator Gideon Moi is yet to declare his ambitions for the top seat. Like his father, retired President Daniel Moi, he has masked his political savvy behind an attitude of reticence. But should he run for the top job, he will realise political wealth does not come gratuitously. Nor does it come by an insouciant attitude towards the electorate. Perhaps he has learnt as much gauging from his crash-course in the vernacular, never mind that his accent is still laced with the old school-tie tones of British upper-crust society. Kenyans are coming of age. They are no longer going to give the wealth of their votes to those who have no hard work ethic. The country, if not emerging from the woods, has at least, stumbled into a clearing. Blinking in unaccustomed glare, it is now picking out its future leaders in perfect light.  Vice chairman,
Kenya-Turkey Business Council 