UASU has proposed changes to sections of the University Act to avert wrangles in the recruitment of vice chancellors, chancellors and council members. The University and Academic Staff Union says sections 35 and 36 should be changed to allow public scrutiny and involvement in appointment of university heads. If changed, chancellors, vice chancellors, and council members will be appointed through a search committee involving the university community, while deans and varsity Senate members will have to secure their seats through an elective process. Read: UASU rejects Moi varsity VC interview results, wants Ayiro confirmed In their proposal to the National Assembly Education committee, UASU, through secretary general Constantine Wasonga, called for the creation of a search committee that would conduct interviews before a shortlist of most qualified candidates is forwarded to the university council for submission to the President. The search committee will comprise the student body, lecturers’ union, renowned academicians, the university senate, a representative of the Public Service Commission and alumni body in the process of hiring a vice chancellor. Currently, the university council is mandated with conducting interviews and forwarding the names of the three top candidates to the Education CS to appoint the vice chancellors of public universities. The union also proposes a reduction in vice chancellors’ terms from five to three years. The term would be renewable once. “This type of tenure of service was previously used at Moi University. Currently in Kenya, the vice chancellors serve a five-year term renewable once; with a majority serving for a cumulative period of 10 years,” Wasonga said. The union further proposes the period vice chancellors can sit as an acting head be limited to a maximum of one year. Elective process The union also proposes heads of departments, deans and the majority of senate members be elected by the academic community of the relevant institutions. “Assessment of the current scenario shows elected deans perform better than deans or directors solely appointed by vice chancellors who most often look at ethnicity as a parameter,” Wasonga said. UASU recommends Section 35 of the Universities Act 2012 be amended to provide for election of academic heads of departments, deans, directors and principals. Wasonga argued the Act as it is, is not inclusive, thus leading to recurring management crises and troubles experienced in universities. He further raised the union’s concerns about tribalism and nepotism in universities. More on this: Ruto breaks silence on Moi University row, terms Mandago protest reckless Click here for the latest political news