The other day I went down to the coast for an extended weekend. The purpose of my visit was to unplug, which is another way of saying dropping everything, packing the family up and leaving. The place where we were staying was right next to the beach. And by right next, I mean at high tide, sea spray was making it over the perimeter wall of the place. From the day I got there, I took to sitting outside on a propped-up pool chair, from late afternoon until dark, just taking in the scene. And the scene, we’re talking a white line in the water formed by waves breaking against coral reef. Ocean as far as the eye could see, both to right and to the left, and far out in the horizon in front of me, sky, dotted with oddly shaped clouds, touching the sea. That pool chair, next to a palm tree rustling in the wind, was my spot, at least for that weekend. Sitting at my spot, the panorama putting in perspective how puny our daily concerns are, it was simply not possible to keep existential questions like, what is life about, at bay. No answer, though, was forthcoming. It did occur to me, though, that perhaps there is no answer to this question, and our problem as human beings lies in the asking it in the first place. Which is inevitably followed by our trying to answer it by coming up with all sorts of answers that start with the word should. I should be married.  I should have children by this age.  I should have that job, this house, X amount of so much money, that’s what life’s about. We go even further and extend our shoulds to other people. The should-outreach-programme, I call it, which goes something like: People should live like this and like that. Or people should behave in this way or that, not watch this or listen to that. It is a tiring word, this should, and also dangerous. ‘Should’ gets people thinking and then acting like they’ve got this life thing all figured out. This in turn lets loose the idea that it is possible to figure life out, and that there’s even something to figure out. What you then end up with is a whole bunch of people who think they know about life, and they’re sure about what they know. Here’s what Mark Twain thought about knowing for sure: ‘It’s not what we don’t know that gets us in trouble, but what we’re sure we know.’ ‘Should’ can also get you depressed and sometimes dead. You’ve all heard this one. Young man gets depressed and then kills himself because his girlfriend left him for another man. The problem, it ‘should’ have been him, not the other guy, who ended up with the girl. We get so sad about losing things that were never ours to begin with. It should be like this: I should have that, but that’s not how it works out. What is it they say, we plan, God laughs? In our thoughts, and in our deeds, and in our lives, there are too many should(s), when maybe all that’s required of us is to relax, and just let life wash over us like an ocean breeze and the sound of waves.