Former Nairobi CBD Business Association chairman Timothy Muriuki has said no amount of intimidation will stop him from seeking justice against the men who assaulted him at a Nairobi hotel on April 30. Four goons disrupted Muriuki’s press conference at the Hotel Boulevard. He had called the media to give his stand on the state of Nairobi city, which has been beset by many problems, including garbage and floods. Muriuki wants Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko to ensure the “criminals” are arrested and charged in a court of law. In a letter addressed to the county chief, he said they must serve “as a living example of the Nairobi we should never have”. “The unfortunate and barbaric events that led to me being manhandled and brutally attacked by assailants claiming to represent Sonko’s interests are not only despicable but also most foul,” the letter reads. “Let it be known that no amount of intimidation shall make me negotiate or back off in my quest for justice following the assault meted out to me.” Immediately he began speaking to the press, the attackers, who claimed Muriuki was out to malign Sonko, tore his statement into pieces, dragged him by the collar of his coat and forced him out of the hotel. Muriuki said such acts must never happen in a country that boasts of democracy. The deplorable state of roads within the CBD and the rise of criminal gangs are issues that cannot be disputed, he said. Muriuki cautioned, however, that Kenyans cannot spend “all their time and energy piling blame” on Sonko. Read:I'll not negotiate in pursuit for justice, assaulted CBD boss tells Sonko “Such a stance is escapist and diversionary and will not resolve the challenges Nairobians contend with. Multiple players focussed on a common set of goals and objectives will deliver the success Nairobi desires and deserves,” the letter said. Muriuki copied the letter to the Director of Public Prosecutions, Director of Criminal Investigations, Inspector General of Police, Interior CS and PS, and the Nairobi DCIO. He said the evidence of the torture and torment meted out to him is overwhelming and the attackers’ prosecution should be an easy task. “The painful ordeal is something I shall not forget any time soon, let alone take it lying down. This kind of an act never happened in our dark days of limited democracy. It will be shameful to let it prosper in this day and age,” Muriuki said. Police have placed Sh500,000 bounty on each of the four assaulters. They face robbery with violence charges. Read:Pictures:Police offer Sh2.5M for arrest of men who attacked NCBDA boss Click here for the latest political news