Tenders for national and county governments will have to be cleared by their respective attorneys before they are signed by accounting officers, a new Bill tabled in Parliament proposes. The Government Contracts Bill, 2018 brought to the House by  National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale proposes that the Attorney General clears national government contracts before award, while county attorneys will approve for devolved units. This is aimed at weeding out the practice of top government officials awarding tenders to relatives or cronies and dummy companies to siphon public funds. The latest NYS scam where Sh9 billion has been reported lost is an example of suppliers and state officials colluding to fleece the government. “Subject to the pecuniary threshold provided for under Section 134 of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015, an accounting officer of a procuring entity shall ensure that all contracts are cleared by the Attorney General before they are signed,” reads part of the Bill. not convicted The office of the county attorney is yet to be established in law. However, the Senate is debating a draft Bill for creation of the office which will offer legal advice to counties. The draft law also proposes national and county governments seek approval from their attorneys before contracting lawyers to represent them in court matters. Prospective contractors for the two levels of governments will be required to declare and give a warrant that they have neither paid nor agreed to pay any fee directly or indirectly to get the tender. “Contractors shall not, directly or indirectly, pay a facilitation or contingency fee to any  individual for the solicitation, negotiation or  obtaining of the contract contrary to the provisions  of the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003 or any other applicable Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery laws,” reads the Bill. The contractors will be required to declare that they have not been convicted of an offence under the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act, 2003 or other applicable Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery laws in seeking state and county tenders. Contractors who have been convicted will be required to produce a pardon granted under the Penal Code.