President Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela, try as he may, will not convince the world he won a free and fair election last Sunday. He didn’t. And there is overwhelming evidence against his claims. We can, of course, see the enthusiastic support he has received from members of his United Socialist Party as they celebrate their victory. So did we all, when I was in primary school many decades ago, celebrate when we won a football match against a team that never showed up! We simply “ng’ielod” against them! That is, we took the ball to the penalty point and one of our teammates shot into the empty goal. Hip, hip, hip, hurrah! We had won the match. Go sing your victory to the birds, Señor Maduro. The opposition didn’t even participate in the election. They had asked for a very simple thing: For the playing ground to be levelled before the polls. Had Henri Falcon, your main challenger, stood in a free and fair election, one wonders whether simple machismo would have brought you back as head of state. What of the hyperinflation, hunger and corruption you have presided over in an economy that has contracted by 40 per cent since you took over from the late Hugo Rafael Chavez in 2013? That, obviously, is not socialism that expects the fullest mobilisation of your productive forces for optimum satisfaction of your people’s basic needs. You failed the test miserably. At least Chavez, during his tenure between 1999-2013, did much better than you. Evidence can be seen in the elections he won reasonably fairly by any standard. So, you select the rules on which to conduct your elections, choose the referee and decide when the play is to begin and end. Who did you expect to ‘win’ under such circumstances? Many third world autocrats don’t seem to understand a very simple rule about democratic elections. They are, first and foremost, a contest about the rules of the game before they are a contest about the election itself. Constitutions and election rules must be democratic before the polls are held with an iota of expectation to produce democratic results. I know for certain the Venezuelan opposition had been in discussion with the Maduro government regarding constitutional and electoral reforms before the election. Maduro jumped the gun and called for early polls. The heavens were not going to fall down before January next year when the elections were due: So why the hurry? Nobody doubts the machismo with which Maduro runs that God-forsaken nation since it was gripped by “socialist-populism with Venezuelan characteristics”! But surely, when Venezuela is losing 500 of her citizens every week, who vote with their feet to seek greener pastures elsewhere, where will “los pueblos Venezuelanos” come from to enjoy the advent of socialist utopia under Maduro?  ZIMBABWE Let us come closer home to Zimbabwe, a nation with a similar experience of a strong ideological nationalist in the person of Robert Mugabe, who went rogue as the head of a whole nation and drove it to the brink of complete disaster in two decades. Uncle Bob started very well, as a national liberation hero in 1980, when Zimbabwe gained her independence from Great Britain. In February 1981, my friend Mike Chege and I, then young lecturers in Political Science at the University of Nairobi, were invited by the Zimbabwe Institute of Development Studies (ZIDS) to deliver a paper at a seminar on ‘the land issue in Zimbabwe after independence.’ We were supposed to enlighten our colleagues on the Kenyan experience, especially regarding the deal that our young nation had made with Great Britain, the outgoing colonial master. We never set foot in Harare. Our passports were seized at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and there started what became state control of foreign travel by university dons. Let me not be presumptuous here: The abortion of our journey to Harare did not in any way play a role in the quagmire that Zimbabwe eventually found herself in, when the land deal with Britain went hopelessly sour 10 years later. It drove Mugabe to the brink. With a similar machismo with which Chavez ruled Venezuela, with his brand of socialism — not quite cognisant of how to meet the basic needs of the people in a dynamic global system — Mugabe also decided a ruthless land redistribution to Zimbabweans (read the elites in Zanu-PF) was the answer to the land problem. Britain, as well as sane agricultural economists, could as well go to hell. With agriculture, as the mainstay of the economy, gone to the dogs, hyperinflation followed, the Zim Dollar lost its value even locally and millions of Zimbabwe left their motherland in search of greener pasture elsewhere. A once vibrant economy became a basket case as fertile land lay fallow and empty shells yawned in ghostly “once” supermarkets. When Mugabe was finally overthrown by his Zanu-PF army last year, Emerson Mnangagwa, his long-time comrade at arms and current President, should not have adopted the same attitude Maduro adopted in Venezuela after taking over. That is, plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose! He should have immediately entered into a national discourse with the Zimbabwean people for a national rapprochement for a new democratic social contract. But he did not.  OPPOSITION STRUGGLE In Zimbabwe, like in Venezuela, the opposition has for long struggled for democratic change, advocating constitutional reforms and progressive social and economic reforms to respond to the pressing basic needs of the people. Truth be told, on this platform for democratic change, the late Morgan Tsvangirai won the presidential election twice; and was denied his victory, and that of his party, the Movement for Democratic Change by Mugabe and his Zanu-PF in 2008 and 2013. Tsvangirai died in February this year, leaving the MDC in the hands of Nelson Chemisa, Tendai Biti, Welshman Ncube, Douglas Mwonzoa and many others, who now bear the responsibility for meaningful reforms and transition to a new political power dispensation through democratic elections. But given the protracted history that Zimbabwe has been through, an intermediate regime, or a transitional government of national consensus,may be necessary to midwife a new constitution and clean up the mess after Mugabe. A rush to a semi-competitive —or a no-competition — election in Zimbabwe that ZANU-PF is guaranteed ‘to win’ (read rig) will do Zimbabwe no good. The MDC and all opposition parties, holding an honest national dialogue with Zanu-PF, need to agree on a new constitution on which all other national institutions of governance and development will be based. No doubt this will imply democratic electoral laws that will guarantee an inclusive and legitimate government when the electoral exercise is over. In highly multi-cultural and multi-ethnic nations such as our African ones, that is perhaps the best litmus test for a democratic election. Venezuelans should learn something from this thesis as well. Nobody can say, by any stretch of the imagination that the results of the recent election in Venezuela has produced a government that is nationally legitimate and inclusive from the point of view any objective observer. Maduro’s ardent followers and supporters, no doubt, celebrated the results as legitimate but not really inclusive. A good part of the population was already out of the country, having voted with their feet at different times. Those who were left, as the opposition to Maduro, did not even vote. Do your arithmetic and ask yourself, what percentage of Venezuelans voted, and out of their free will for Maduro? Let me offer unsolicited advice: Venezuela, like Zimbabwe, needs an honest national dialogue to agree on a constitution, based on a national consensus, from - - which will be derived rules of democratic elections to establish an inclusive and legitimate government. Most likely an election held under such democratic principles will produce winners, who will celebrate their victory, while the losers accept the process and the results as legitimate. 