Was Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli used to test the waters in a secret bid to extend President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tenure beyond 2022? Some people in government think so. They were heard whispering that the clamour for constitutional amendments, particularly adoption of a parliamentary system of government, could be part of the grand scheme. Atwoli on Tuesday suggested that a law amendment is inevitable because Uhuru is ‘too young to retire’. But the government officials were doubtful whether Uhuru is aware of the clandestine push and could be a victim of powerful people keen to retain their jobs. An ex-woman representative from Nyanza is a worried politician. Reason? Her Prado has been attached over a Sh5million loan she took from a microfinance institution. The politician, who has assumed a low-profile after losing the August 8 election, has been looking for friends to bail her out for the last two months. In one of her rare appearances, she followed a lawmaker from her county last week to Parliament, seeking financial assistance to no avail. Only time will tell whether things have gone south for the former high-flying politician. Corridors has learnt that a local bank wrote to her last week, too, seeking written commitment on how she will repay a Sh6 million loan she has defaulted on. A prominent government official is said to be on the State’s radar. Sources whispered to Corridors the man could be the first casualty of the handshake. His crime is unclear. However, the official has recently been at the centre of multiple controversies. Initially, it is believed he was a darling of the people who matter in government. But it appears he has lost favour. Still in government, a powerful State House official is being accused of monitoring communication of the people who matter in government. They range from State House employees, Cabinet Secretaries to select governors. Our mole at the House on the Hill told Corridors the officer goes through call logs, texts and WhatsApp messages. Those who know about his uncouth behaviour use strangers’ phones to discuss sensitive matters. One of them whispered to Corridors that when using their personal phones, they will say what the man wants to hear. But when they want to discuss things that matter, they borrow phones from the unlikeliest of people – boda boda operators, Uber drivers or random friends in a pub. A Cabinet Secretary from Mt Kenya is in trouble after he refused to pay brokers their commissions on a deal they helped him structure with a Mombasa-based tycoon. Word has it that as soon as the CS received the money, he cut all contact with his brokers. The brokers have sworn not to let the matter rest and will be seeking assistance from the EACC to get their hard-earned cash. Click here for the latest political news