Since Raila Odinga and President Uhuru Kenyatta met on March 9, the country has assumed an electoral campaign mode. The deal, which remains shrouded in mystery in terms of content and form, has shifted the political landscape in tectonic proportions. Political alliances that lost in the last elections have collapsed and the ruling Jubilee Party does not seem to be sitting pretty in spite of enjoying the trappings of state power. Politicians on both sides of the divide continue to cry foul, as others smart from a sense of betrayal and dejection. Previously considered losers, whose political obituaries were being drafted, appear to have recovered and have regained stability and traction. Newfound alliances are being bandied around like old established fraternities. A country that was gripped with palpable tension is now enjoying warm comradeship and enthusiasm for national rebirth. Underlying these mixed bag of opportunities are the twin but contradicting feelings of hope of brighter future for the supporters of the handshake on the one hand, and disillusionment for the opponents on the other hand. Those who have come out to openly voice their disapproval of the unity deal oscillate around the camp of Deputy President William Ruto. The majority of them are from the vast Rift Valley, and have been working round the clock to have their prince occupy State House. There are a sprinkling of other ardent supporters from other regions, especially in Northeastern and the Coast. However, these two former provinces have been known to scatter their votes, in spite of their numerical weakness, as a way of securing a foothold in any government. The Rift Valley, on the other hand, votes as a bloc and has determined the outcome of every election since 2007. At the launch the ‘Building Bridges Initiative, Uhuru and Raila pledged to the country that their mission would bring the nation together. They vowed never again in their lifetime would Kenya experience the kind of volatile electoral processes that have come to be our hallmark in the region. By this declaration, they assumed the responsibility for previous electoral malpractices which they promised to address fully, once and for all. The main plank of the unity deal was to bring down the iron curtains that have existed between the various ethnic communities since Independence. On one hand, they recognised the seeds of discord were planted and nurtured by the colonial government for their divide-and-rule approach in Kenya. On the other hand, they acknowledged that the successive political leaderships after Independence had failed the citizens by allowing tribalism to blossom. They had regularly exploited the ethnic schisms to galvanise their respective communities as voting blocs for electoral victory. These brazen acts of unbridled ambition for high office had pushed the country to the brink of the precipice more than once, and in fact the nation almost burnt to smithereens in 2007-08. At every electoral cycle, the country suffers emotionally and economically. Businesses close down and some foreign investors relocate to other countries — sometimes for good. Jobs are lost and it takes a lot of time for the economy to pick up and create new employment opportunities. In the ensuing political instability and social turmoil, merchants of impunity manipulate the government systems to siphon public resources into private pockets. Corruption cartels have, therefore, invaded the corridors of public service and pitched tents that obstruct social service delivery to the detriment of the independence dream. Uhuru and Raila are aware that being the scions of the founding fathers — Jomo Kenyatta and Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, respectively — gives them preeminence in Kenya’s leadership profile. They thus found it rather irresponsible that the country should disintegrate in their hands, as the foremost political players. It is this realisation that might have partly awakened their sense of national duty and patriotism. But maybe the Damascus moment might have visited them more as an appreciation of their heritage, and that is why they resolved to bequeath a united nation as their legacy. However, the unity project may be derailed and risks being counterproductive if not handled with utmost care. It has been presented as a mission to bring Kenyans from all walks of life together so that they may view themselves as citizens first, and belonging to the tribe second. Many leaders have hailed it as a masterstroke and the surest way to heal the political wounds that have afflicted the country during elections. The three tribes of the Kikuyu, the Luo and the Kalenjin, who have come out as the more highly politically conscious, have dominated the history of the country. The Kikuyu have been aggressive, the Luo abrasive and the Kalenjin strategic. At every election, alliances have been formed from among these tribes by any two and in alternate fashion. There have been the Kikuyu-Luo alliance, the Luo-Kalenjin alliance and the Kikuyu-Kalenjin alliance, not only once but almost more than twice since Independence. The alliances have been based on the prevailing political circumstances at the electoral period. Any of the tribes left out of the alliance feels jilted and normally, will approach the election in a revenge mode. Any of those alliances always succeeds with varying degrees in the capture of state power. Any of the three tribes, whose leaders fail to clinch an alliance, feels left out and always appears to plan a counter attack. The stability that was witnessed during the Nusu Mkate (coalition) government was more on account of these three tribes being involved critically in government operations than the deftness of President Mwai Kibaki. It is in the perspective of this tribal triumvirate that the risk of losing the Rift Valley should be seen. It would be an exercise in futility to traverse the length and breadth of the country preaching unity when the Kalenjin community feels neglected and not part of the process. Uhuru and Raila did not intend that their project would solve one problem of unity by creating another one of marginalisation and exclusion. They should therefore take every precaution to ensure the Rift Valley, especially the Kalenjin, does not only feel included but also appreciated and active participants in the project. It is not out of the ordinary that concerns have been raised about the involvement, stakes and participation of the Rift Valley. Granted the unity pact and the Building Bridges Project received the seal of approval from Mzee Daniel Moi. It has been equally noted that Senator Gideon Moi together with his Kanu brigade have demonstrated enthusiasm in championing the unity call in the region. However, louder has been the rejection of this project by Ruto and his staunch supporters, comprising the former URP stalwarts. This opposition began as lukewarm endorsement of the handshake but has since degenerated into open rebellion. None other than Ruto has lent his support to the vocal rejection of the unity pact. The numbers are growing by the day and it is increasingly becoming clear what was meant to pacify the nation is instead stocking embers of political war. There has been a long-running struggle between the Mois and Ruto for the control of the Rift Valley voting bloc since the exit of Mzee Moi in 2002. Both sides have seen no need to compromise and unite for the sake their region. Instead, each has mounted an all-out war to annihilate the other and gain unfettered control of community. It is not yet established in what proportions each controls the community but it is clear that Ruto has the bigger share by dint of his office. The inclusion of Moi may be tolerated by Ruto, but any process that has Raila and Moi on one side without Ruto’s direct input is unacceptable to the Sugoi Camp. Therefore if Ruto should choose to give the unity project a wide berth, then the project may not succeed as initially intended and as earlier presented to the people. It is thus incumbent upon Uhuru and Raila to find means and ways of mollifying the Deputy President and bringing into the camp his large Rift Valley support base. Otherwise, the Building Bridges project risks being counterproductive, and the citizens will have been the greatest losers.  The writer is a is a political and public policy analyst    