Whatever we think, we cannot ignore the fact that Kenya is on an accelerated pathway of development that is akin to a wave moving through the ocean. Nothing is going to stop it. Our development growth spurt was started under President Mwai Kibaki, who not only passed a very progressive Constitution but was also the brainchild of Vision 2030, which is being implemented through a series of flagship projects. It is reviewed every five years through an elaborate process of ensuring state institutions, education programmes, hospitals, the rule of law, and democratic reforms support it and keep its progress on track. While it is easy for the public to understand the importance of skills-based education, working infrastructure, reliable energy, adequate food, and access to raw materials, the vision did not explain nor justify how a clean and healthy environment was relevant. Nature, wildlife, forests, and oceans, therefore, seem unnecessary … the odd ones out, and so, it’s not surprising that environment was left out of Uhuru Kenyatta’s legacy projects — The Big Four agenda. This is an error that will cost us heavily in the future unless rectified quickly. President Uhuru has articulated his legacy projects as food security, affordable housing, manufacturing (read decent jobs) and access to healthcare for all. Many can’t fault the leadership for aspiring to achieve such ambitious goals except environmentalists and conservationists, who see the potential devastating impact of ignoring the environment on the future wealth, health and stability of Kenya. Consider these facts. The median age in Kenya ionly 18 years. That means in 10 years, the share of the working-age population (aged 15-64 ) will be larger than the share of non-working-age population (aged 14 and younger, and 65 and older). This will translate into two million Kenyans entering the job market each year by 2050. Fewer than 15 per cent of these people will find jobs. For Africa, this means 12 million Africans entering the job market every year — into a market that can only absorb 2.5 – 3 million people each year. Development agencies predict that such a massive bulge of unemployment will destabilise Africa, resulting in mass migration on a scale never seen before. We could avert that dystopian future by reaping a demographic dividend ­— but the key is planning for it now. By 2050, Kenyans will have become rich before they get old, allowing for huge improvements in quality of life. The Big Four makes perfect sense in averting a social and economic crisis, except in one area — the environment. My proposal to Uhuru and the designers behind Vision 2030 and the Big Four is to expand it to The Big Five and include our biodiversity lifeboat, with a goal of making Kenya the world’s superpower for wildlife tourism. This involves strategically and fiercely safeguarding our national parks and reserves, as well as critical ecosystems that will secure 90 per cent or more of our biodiversity. We could lose other areas and in the short term, but the lifeboat areas will ensure we avert extinctions, and that we can restore and restock once we achieve our economic aspirations. But it is not just the future of tourism that is at stake here. The recent two-year drought and the devastation brought about by the ongoing floods should give us a warning. Catastrophic environmental shocks have undermined Kenya’s economic growth by several percentage points each year for decades. Floods have destroyed infrastructure and raised the cost of food and energy production. Poverty and hunger have triggered deadly armed conflicts and caused millions of Kenyans to fall into deep poverty. What we are witnessing is the legacy of decades of deforestation, overgrazing, construction on riverbanks, draining of swamps, poor education, poorly constructed roads and railways and loss of and degradation of the natural environment. The weather, our economy, health, behaviour (including corruption), and our political stability are all interlinked. The interconnectedness over different physical scales, time frames, and speeds, means we are living in a highly complex system. It is further complicated by social, economic and ecological dynamics and change that is happening faster than our capacity to respond in terms of policies, education, skills and production. There is huge uncertainty and many unknowns — our ability to fix any problem is constrained by our lack of knowledge and understanding, as well as the fact that the targets are constantly moving. To complicate things further, we must deal with local and global challenges in trade, climate and behaviours, all at the same time. But there is one simple truth we must not forget: That the people and nature are one system. We are intertwined in a social and ecological system.This means we must not run our government’s planning machine as if our world is compartmentalised, where conservationists work on wildlife, engineers work on infrastructure, farmers on food production and economists on trade. All of these things are interlinked and intertwined and affect the other in very complex ways. This is what Vision 2030 must take into account. This is why the sustainable development goals include all these factors. We cannot work only on certain goals such as ending poverty without working on decent jobs, health and life. Kenyans can no longer claim droughts and floods are acts of God: They are a result of our own actions and inactions — years of over-exploitation, unthinking and unplanned development, and environmental degradation. All these exacerbate global climate change. The ongoing floods, for example, would have been avoided if our forests were intact, our grasslands rich, and our rivers undeveloped. We have failed to address alternative fuel leading to a charcoal industry that has reduced most woodland to barren scrub. It is high time we incorporate environmental and social considerations in our economic planning to reduce impacts of global climate change. Construction projects should reject sand from rivers, incentivise alternative energy, and protect our parks and reserves, forest and swamps so that they become our shock absorbers of the ravages of climate change. Apathy is the enemy of change. Why should Uhuru listen to this, you may ask? Protecting the environment is an incredibly good investment in the future stability and resilience of Kenya’s economy, political systems, safety and health. The effects of global climate change are local, meaning our resilience will depend on local adaptations. Let us not re-invent the wheel: Let us document, adapt and adopt the ancient practices of our forefathers and mothers which kept the soil healthy and taught us how to appreciate our mother, earth. Failure to include the environment in our development planning is not only folly but also setting ourselves up for a catastrophic failure. So, instead of reaping a quality of life that we have been promised under the Big Four, we will get unpredictable weather shocks, crop failures, health crises due to over use of pesticides, and undernourishment and a huge escalation of conflicts. We will also experience dangerous disruption in our political stability that will undermine our hard-won freedoms. Kenya will no longer be the wonderful place to live in, work in nor invest in. We will lose foreign investors as the system disintegrates further. I am optimistic, however, that President Uhuru understands how economic growth in Kenya must address the nexus between food security, climate change, biodiversity and water. I do not doubt that he will see wisdom in ‘The Big Five’, but the truth is Kenyans need to be the joint stewards of our environment today to choose the future. This is the ultimate choice that we must make. The fifth element of the Big Five — creating a Biodiversity Lifeboat — is Uhuru’s chance to leapfrog Kenya into a new paradigm of forward planning never seen before.   Dr. Paula Kahumbu is a visiting lecturer at Princeton University where she is currently teaching undergraduate and graduate seminars in sustainable development.    