A man from Baringo has claimed that he did not authorise the use of his traditional regalia, locally known as Sambut, for the installation of Deputy President William Ruto as a Tugen elder. The DP was crowned last Saturday in a colourful ceremony by some 20 elders from Lembus- Kwen ward in Eldama Ravine sub-county. They were led by Elijah Kimanyim. But Kiplagat Kimitei, 93, from Kapkoi village on Wednesday said he wants the DP to return the ceremonial regalia citing grounds he (Ruto) was crowned 'illegally'. Read:Ruto crowned Tugen elder, promised Baringo support in State House race "I gave my Sambut to a friend who borrowed it to perform a dance last December. Since then, he did not return it." "...My friend used to say he still using it only for me to learn recently that he, with his mates, lured Ruto to be crowned with it," Kiplagat said. He further alludes that the garment, made from a black monkey skin, "was not meant to pamper politicians". "It was meant for special ceremonies like the transition of age-sets in line with the Tugen culture." During the ceremony, the elders promised to back Ruto for the presidency in the 2022 general election. "We found that you are a hard-working, generous and accessible leader...so, you outshine the long list of those who want to take over the presidency after Uhuru Kenyatta," Kimanyin said. The elders further promised not to crown any other person from Rift Valley, especially Baringo, to take over the presidency after Uhuru finishes his term in office. Baringo is the home of Senator Gideon Moi, who is being viewed as likely to contest the presidency as well. Apart from the animal skin, the elders also handed the deputy president another traditional regalia among them a club, spear and a wooden stool. "We give you these tools of power...use them to lead the country and don't make any plunder with it," the elders told Ruto. On the same day, the DP launched the Eldama-Ravine Technical Institute, Makutano-Ravine road, Skyline Sacco plaza and also hosted a fundraiser for needy students in Elama-Ravine. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Baringo governor Stanley Kiptis, MPs Moses Lessonet (Eldama Ravine), Dr Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Oscah Sudi (Kapseret), and former Tiaty MP Asman Kamama accompanied the deputy president. Click here for the latest political news  