For 54 years since independence, residents of Funyula constituency in Busia county have been facing acute water shortage, despite being surrounded by Lake Victoria and rivers Nzoia and Sio. The only existing water kiosk at the Alema borehole would have a line of people waiting all day long for their turn to fill their cans. “We used to trek all the way to River Namundere 2km away to draw water,” says Grace Achieng, a resident of Nasuma village in Nyakhobi sublocation. “Water sellers had taken advantage of the acute water shortage to charge us Sh10 per 20litre can of water. Those who could not afford it had no choice but to fetch water from the river.” Schoolchildren were not spared either. They would miss classes because their school did not have water or they were sick from drinking water from contaminated sources. But the agony of trekking long distances in search of water has now been alleviated by a project putting up more water kiosks and pipelines. This is thanks to the Kenya Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (Kiwash) project by the US Agency for International Development, in partnership with the Busia government. It has built three water kiosks and seen a rapidly expanding network of water being supplied to homes, schools and businesses, serving 12,000 people in the Funyula community. Even before the water was officially turned on recently, the subcounty water office had received more than 215 applications for new customers, and the number is growing daily. Achieng said her troubles have now been relieved. Another beneficiary, Josphat Okello, a hotel owner at Funyula trading centre, said thanks to the water project, he has been using 4,000 litres of water daily at a cost of Sh2,000. Alema Borehole was first designed to supply water to the residents of Funyula subcounty. The borehole has a capacity of 18m3 per hour. However, since the borehole was sunk in 2015, the system has only been operating at half capacity due to insufficient water storage and pipeline networks. The lack of infrastructure to support the high possible yield of the borehole meant very few in the community were benefiting from it. Suffering from operational and maintenance problems, the existing water suppliers, Munana and Onana, were unable to meet the growing water demand, a situation that worsened each dry season. Kiwash project is helping to expand water access around Funyula town and its environs by expanding pipelines and educating water suppliers on improved business practices in water supplies and services. In one year, Kiwash has worked to increase the efficiency of the system, improving the current water infrastructure and building the capacity of the two main water supply entities that serve the entire Samia subcounty. NO RAIN, NO PROBLEM To increase pumping capacity at the Alema borehole, Kiwash replaced the old pump with a hybrid water pumping system that uses solar and conventional electricity. This has cut by 50 per cent the cost of power to operate the borehole. In fact, since the solar panels were installed, the pump has not had to use any costly electricity main to operate. Kiwash has also constructed a 100m3 concrete water storage tank and distribution pipeline nearly 2km uphill from the Alema borehole, replacing the previous 10m3 capacity tank. This tenfold increase in storage capacity has increased the daily storage and pumping capacity to 196m3 per day over two-eight hour periods. Kiwash also connected the borehole to Munana water supply’s existing reticulation network. The company’s main water source is Munana dam, which, due to the hotter, longer dry season, dried up entirely last year, leaving its customers with few choices of getting water. The increase in reliable clean water means that customers will not have to worry about running out of water during the dry season. UTILISING GRAVITY The old pump from the Alema borehole was installed for Onana water supply to increase the quantity and reliability for Onana customers. In addition to connecting the Alema borehole to Munana water supply’s pipeline network, Kiwash constructed 4.2km of additional main water lines from the new catchment tank. With the tank’s location on a hill, the system will take advantage of gravity to deliver water to customers, further reducing electrical costs in the system. Kiwash also constructed two additional water kiosks at key points to serve an additional 800 households. Taken together, the three existing water kiosks being serviced by the Alema borehole now have the capacity to reach more than 1,300 households. Kiwash is working with the Busia government to strengthen the water utility company, Busia Water and Sewerage Services Company, to manage water services. Kiwash helped develop Buwassco’s strategic plan, a key step to making sustainable investment decisions. During this process, Kiwash worked with the Funyula subcounty’s water office to ensure the needs and views of the community are addressed in the plan. Buwassco will manage the work of Munana and Onana water supply and give a portion of all revenues back to the county. Kiwash also provided training on the use of the new hybrid pump at the Alema borehole and conducted customer care training for Buwassco officers. The project will continue to provide technical assistance on the maintenance of the water infrastructure. The reduced cost of the energy from the more efficient hybrid pump will mean increased revenues that will be used to expand services throughout the subcounty. This will also ensure the long-term sustainability of the enterprise. SUPPLY STATISTICS Some 61 per cent of the population of Busia, which is approximately 0.8 million people, has access to safe and clean water from an improved source, with 7 per cent of the rural households having access to safe water. Four per cent of the county’s population is covered by the sewerage system, with 32.8 per cent of the population using improved sanitation facilities. The USAid is working hand in hand with 23,980 water service providers tasked with the responsibility of improving the water supply and access through rehabilitation and expansion of water infrastructure. The agency, through a programme known as Wash — Water and Sanitation Hygiene — has reached 6,380 people with improved access to water derived from 20 small and medium water projects supported to improve the efficiency of the business operations. The agency has also encouraged the local community to take advantage of the ambitious water project and engage in kitchen gardening. Some 356 households have heeded the call and are growing nutritious dense vegetables.