The last 24 hours have not been easy. On Wednesday around 8pm, I received a call informing me the dam
had burst and water had swept through the village. I
sent a Twitter alert to my ward. Soon I heard the situation
was turning into a disaster. I ran
to the scene to assess the situation and mobilise county and
national governments to come to our rescue. The governor's office office, the entire Nakuru leadership and the national
government moved quickly and started the rescue. By 5am
yesterday, we had retrieved 10 bodies and 40 people were in hospital. As of Thursday afternoon 38 bodies had been
retrieved, families were complaining of the missing
loved ones. The place is bad. Waters washed through the entire
village, displacing  over 2,500 people, destroying homes, farms and
animals. Massive destruction everywhere. We set up counseling camp so our
people can get assistance. There's a call centre in the governor's office and another in the county commissioner's office. These are also places where people tracing their loved ones can be assisted. The National
Disaster Management team is on the ground and
leading the rescue mission in collaboration with the county team. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and Devolution CS
Eugene Wamalwa have visited and given us much-needed
support. We expect the Water CS today, with engineers. A
thorough investigation will start immediately to determine the structural nature of the dam and any issues.Two more dams on the farm will be assessed. We will find out whether the farmer was licensed to erect
those dams. As residents, we want to know the condition of the other two dams. Furthermore, other dams in the area will be assessed. I appeal to fellow Kenyans and other
entities to help with supplies to help displaced people. They need many things, food, blankets, supplies of all kinds. As the rains
continue, I appeal to residents of the area to be alert and report any warning signs of disasters to the county or
national government offices so precautions can be taken. The Kabazi ward MCA spoke to the Star 