Governor Mike Sonko has warned Nairobi county executives that they will lose their jobs if they don't deliver. Sonko said this at City Hall on Friday when he flagged off equipment for cleaning and unblocking drainage. "To deliver as a government I cannot work alone.I hereby tell my CECs that If they do not work, I will send them home," he said and asked them to fully concentrate on leaving the city better than the last regime left it. Related: Kidero left me in tight spot but I'll fix Nairobi, Sonko tells Kalonzo Regarding mockery concerning grand promises during campaigns, the Governor said he welcomes challenges. "I accept all the mockery and take them as a challenge to better my work," he said. Sonko urged Nairobians to get rid of waste responsibly. "Nairobi people should stop littering and disposing garbage on drainage because they cause blockage."  Nairobi county staff display the cleaning equipment that Governor Mike Sonko flagged off at City Hall, May 4, 2018. /MAUREEN KINYANJUI On floods, the county chief said proper steps will be taken once the rainy season ends. "I cannot control nature and hinder rains feom pourinflg but I assure you that we will clear the water and blocked drainage systems immediately after the rains end," he said. The Governor said the poor state of roads and potholes were major concerns and that work will begin when the weather turns favourable. Sonko said the county will work on roads it is responsible for. "People should know that not all roads are under the county. We have stakeholders such as Kura, Kerra and the national government," he said. He asked MCAs to present their people's needs in order so they are addressed. The Governor flagged off 850 cleaning equipment, including wheelbarrows and rakes, that will be used to clean the 85 wards. County executives Charles Kerich (Lands), Mohamed Dagane (Transport), Larry Wambua (Environment), Allan Igambi ( Trade), Vesca Kagongo (Devolution) attended the event. Also present were MCAs including Peter Wambugu (Karura), Osman Adow (Eastleigh South) and Millicent Mugadi (Kariokor). On April 13, the team behind the Nairobi regeneration project set ambitious goals for itself and promised that officers will resign if they don't deliver. The team includes national and county leaders and is co-chaired by Sonko and Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala. Details: We'll resign if we don't transform Nairobi, Sonko team tells Uhuru Click here for the latest political news