Lectures on Tuesday accused the government of militarising public universities following the ongoing strike. The University Academic Staff Union and KUSU members have accused The two unions said the move to deploy police and military officers within university premises is an act to incite students against their lecturers. KUSU chairman Muga K'Olale said it is immoral and criminal for government to militarise learning institutions. This followed concerns that some universities called for security reinforcement to avert interference of their operations by striking workers. Cops were deployed in Kenyatta University, JKUAT, University of Nairobi, Technical University of Kenya, and Moi University on Monday. Read: Strike on, Kenyatta University lying to students - Uasu and Kusu K'Olale said with the nature of Kenyan police officers, Vice Chancellors will be held responsible for any loss of life in the event chaos erupt at the said institutions. "This militancy will not go away even if we call off the strike. This is a challenge that vice chancellors will have to deal with for a long time," he said. K'Olale added: "How do you incite students against their lecturers who are their parents, who are expected to mentor them and mark their exams". He said lecturers are on strike because they are aggrieved and thus VC's should not use it as a chance to victimise union members. UASU secretary Constantine Wasonga dismissed reports that they had accepted to take a Sh2billion counter-offer to end the 69-day long strike. "UASU and KUSU deeply empathise with the plight of the more than 600,000 students suffering as a result of the strike," he said. "This is because of the intransigence of an uncaring government and IPUCCF who have refused to provide a counter offer to the unions." Wasonga said it is unfair for government, through VC's, to resort to use force on their members. The SG was reacting to a situation where some of their officials were arrested at the Kenyatta University as they tried to block their colleagues from accessing the institution. "For the sake of their own safety, we advise our students to stay away from campus until the strike is called off," he said. KUSU Secretary General Charles Mukhwaya said campuses are hallowed grounds of study, learning, mentoring, inquiry, research and innovation hence their issues cannot be solved through guns and teargas. The strike followed after the government failed to table a counteroffer to the 2017/21 CBA and hold talks. More on this: UoN suspends striking lecturers, subordinate staff Also read: Which way forward? Plight of varsity students as lecturers' strike bites Click here for the latest political news