Invesco Insurance which bounced back after surviving receivership in 2007 now risks being wound up following a court petition. A petitioner, Hassan Mohamed Juma applied to liquidate the firm on September 24. The High Court is today expected to hear the petition. In a gazette notice dated October 12, the court is asking creditors or contributors willing to oppose or support the petition to appear in court today in person or through an appointed advocate. “The petition notice to liquidate Invesco Assurance Company by Hassan Mohamed Juma is to be heard before the High Court in Nairobi on October 18,” the notice read. In March, Invesco agreed out of court settlement on another liquidation attempt filed by law firm Wambugu Kariuki and Associates over a Sh 3.4 million legal fee. The consent adopted by the court compelled Invesco to pay Sh1million by March 23, a further Sh400,000 by April 30 and thereafter a similar amount every end of month until the full amount is settled. The latest case against Invesco Assurance is the latest financial hurdle for the firm that has struggled financially for the past decade after it was put under statutory management in 2007 for failing to pay claimants Sh600 million. It was subsequently bought by the Matatu Owners Association which holds an 80 per cent stake after putting in an initial Sh200 million breathing life into the dying insurer. The firm started operations in 1999. The firm has been recording losses since 2014 when it recorded a loss of Sh96 million. The firm had reported a Sh227.8 million profit the previous year. Almost 10 PSV underwriting insurance companies have collapsed over the last decade with the collapse of state-owned Kenya National Assurance Company in 1996 heralding the trouble in the sector. Its death was soon followed by that of Access Insurance Company, Stallion Insurance Company, Liberty Insurance Company, Lakestar Insurance Company, United Insurance Company, Invesco Insurance Company and Standard Assurance Kenya Limited.