Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) and Radio Africa’s free to air TV channel, Bamba Sport yesterday unveiled a new broadcast partnership that will grant the television station exclusive rights to air Kenya Cup matches for the next five years. Bamba Sport will also air Kenya fifteens matches as well as the Sevens circuit matches. The deal is worth Sh35m annually with the rights increasing by 10 percent every year. The company will also invest Sh2million every month in production. Speaking during the launch, Group CEO Patrick Quarcoo, said the move is good news to rugby clubs across the country. “I understand the clubs are very happy because for the first time in the history of Kenyan sport, the union has agreed in a memorandum with all the clubs to a share of the investment we are making,” he said. “Our vision is to grow the Kenyan sport and rugby in particular, because any of our listeners are rugby fans,” he added. According to Quarcoo, the deal will see Bamba Sports air at least two matches per week for the next five years and the company will also invest in advertising the games. He further called on corporates to come on board and support the growth of rugby in country. “We have big plans for Kenya rugby. We will be working with club chairmen to see how we can develop a digital product that will allow you to access live updates of all matches in the country,” he noted. “We have had a great relationship with the union as well as the clubs’ chairmen and we hope it continues. I would like to let all Kenyans know that Kenyan rugby is now officially on Bamba TV,” he said. This year’s season is set to kick off on November 19 with 10 teams taking part. KCB are the defending champions and their preparations have been top notch, having travelled to South Africa, where they took part in an intensive 10-day training. KCB chairman Xavier Makuba, who doubles up as the Kenya Cup Clubs boss, said they are glad with the partnership, adding that in the next five years, there will be massive growth in the local game. “Over the years, we’ve been lacking media partnership and now that we have one, we hope Kenyan rugby will be at a different level in five years,” he said. Also present during the launch was several Kenya Cup Club chairmen among them George Mbaye (Mwamba) and Bill Githinji (Impala). The prize of Sh3m will be up for grabs with the winner taking home Sh1m and runners up pocket ing Sh600,000.