World marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge leads three Kenyan nominees for the 2018 IAAF Athlete of the Year awards. Kipchoge smashed the world record at the Berlin Marathon by clocking 2:01:39 in September. His feat is the biggest improvement on the world record for the 42km distance since 1967. He also bagged the London Marathon crown in April and is the reigning Olympic Marathon record champion. Africa Senior 800 silver medallist, Emmanuel Korir is up for the gong following superb displays in the two-lap race. The student of the University of El Paso Texas (UTEP) clocked the fastest time this year in the event in the Diamond League meeting in London, where he posted 1:42.05 in July. He also anchored the Kenya relay 4x400m team at the Africa Championships in Asaba, where they bagged gold. Commonwealth Games 1,500m silver medallist, Timothy Cheruiyot is the other Kenyan runner included in the top ten after stellar season. Cheruiyot had world leads in the 1,500m, clocking 3:28.41 in Monaco and 3:49.64 in the mile in Oregon in May at the Prefontaine Classic. He also won silver in the 1,500m at the Africa Championship in Asaba in August. Two-time Olympic 800m champion, David Rudisha is the sole Kenyan to have bagged the coveted award in 2011. The Kenya trio will be up against USA sprint sensation Christian Coleman (USA), Luvo Manyonga (South Africa), Noah Lyles (USA), Armanda Duplantis (Sweden), Tomas Walsh (New Zealand), Kevin Mayer (France) and Abderhaman Samba (Qatar). Last year’s world high jump champion, Qatar’s Murtaz Esa Barshim will miss out. A three-way voting process will determine the finalists. The IAAF Council and the IAAF Family will cast their votes by email, while fans can vote online via the IAAF’s social media platforms. Individual graphics for each nominee will be posted on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram this week; a ‘like’ on Facebook and Instagram or a retweet on Twitter will count as one vote. The IAAF Council’s vote will count for 50% of the result, while the IAAF family’s votes and the public votes will each count for 25% of the final result. Voting for the Male World Athlete of the Year closes on November 13. At the conclusion of the voting process, five men and five women finalists will be announced by the IAAF. The male and female World Athletes of the Year will be announced live on stage at the IAAF Athletics Awards 2018.