Kisumu Central AP commander Benjamin Koima has maintained he and his officers did not conducted any operation at Nyalenda slum on the night baby Samantha Pendo was fatally assaulted. The six-month-old baby died after she was bashed while cradled in her mother’s arms. Police have been accused. Koima termed as false earlier statements by then Kisumu county commander Titus Yoma that he and then Kisumu Central police boss Christopher Mutune were commanding officers deployed in the area on the night of August 12 last year. The purpose was to end post-election violence. He maintained his earlier stand that the AP officers, identified in the ‘Post-Election Mipango’, were deployed elsewhere and he never commanded any operation at Nyalenda slums as stated in the document. “I was not at any time assisting at Nyalenda. Yes! Mr Yoma lied to the court because I was never involved in making the document and did not know about it,” Koima told the court on Friday. He said there was bad-blood between him and then county commander and they never got along. “I remember once then deputy county commissioner Tom Macheneri came to my office and asked me if there was a problem between us because the county commander [Yoma] had directed them not to take orders from me, telling them that I was just a pastor,” Koima said. Yoma in his testimony said the Nyalenda-Kachok area was manned by Mutune in the night when Pendo was allegedly killed by police officers and was with Koima. He said he was in Kondele, where he led another group quelling riots. He said the officers who were manning Nyalenda and Kachok areas were under Mutune’s command. “I can confirm that the OCPD [Mutune] slept in Nyalenda that day. He was communicating on the radio and giving updates either to me or the control room from that area,” Yoma said. But Mutune denied being in Nyalenda, saying he was ordered to retreat after chaos broke out. He said he was instructed to instead provide security to vital installations after his officers were overwhelmed by protesters. Mutune said he relayed the instructions to all sector commanders without questioning them.The inquest was adjourned until on October 18, when five more witnesses are expected to take the stand.