Fear has engulfed the family of slain university student Sharon Otieno who have said if Migori Governor Okoth Obado is released on bail, their lives will be in danger. In an affidavit, Sharon’s mother Melinda Auma said they are living in fear and the thought of having Obado and his co-accused freed during trial is “chilling”. She wants the court to keep Obado and the other suspects in remand as the murder trial is expedited. “This is a situation not helped by the fact that, as family members, we are possible witnesses in this matter,” Auma said. The court, she said, ought to balance the request for bail against the greater public interest to find the killers of Sharon and her unborn child and to determine that the grant of bail will undermine the latter. Read: Obado, PAs murder cases consolidated, bail hearing on Friday “I pray that everyone linked to the murder of my daughter Sharon and her unborn child remain in custody even as the trial is expedited." "I beg this court to find that there are compelling reasons to deny the accused persons bail during trial,” read part of the affidavit. Auma filed the application yesterday as Obado and two others were charged afresh with the murder of Sharon and her unborn baby. The state amended the charges to include the death of the seven months old unborn baby. All cases were consolidated into one file and the accused persons denied the charge. Read: Sharon’s baby was mine, Obado admits Initially, the governor and his co-accused Micheal Oyamo and Caspal Obiero faced one count of murder. This time round, Obado was not dressed in his usual suits, but rather khaki pants, a printed shirt and a coat. His complexion seemed pale. When the court announced his bail hearing was scheduled for Friday, Obado let out an understated sigh as he was handcuffed and whisked away. Auma in her affidavit said early this year, she noticed her daughter was expectant and depressed. “I spoke with Sharon who later owned up and disclosed to me that she had a man-woman relationship with Zacharia Okoth Obado, who was responsible for her pregnancy”. Sharon is said to have confided in her mother that Obado was pressuring her to abort the child against her wish. Click here for the latest political news