The newest SportPesa Mega Jackpot (MJP) winner, Cosmas Korir, has pledged to use his windfall for the betterment of his community as he continues to come to terms with scooping the third biggest payout in Africa’s gaming history. Korir, 40, who vied for the Konoin parliamentary seat last year without success, was officially unveiled on Wednesday in pompous ceremony in Nairobi that saw him presented with his bumper Sh208,733, 619 cheque after correctly predicting 17 out of 17 games in last week’s MJP on the SportPesa platform. Recalling his journey to riches, the former Letein High School alumnus recalled how he could not wash his hands for three days when he was given Sh50,000 to hold as a student. “After I lost the election, people did not want to see me anymore and they would not answer my calls since they thought I wanted to borrow money. Now, God has added value to me and I can only say thank you. “I want to thank SportPesa since this is not a con game, if you have won, whatever you get is yours. I feel like giving people a share to celebrate this but I will likely use what I have,” the director with the Agriculture department in West Pokot County, who is a diehard Arsenal FC fan said. While presenting him with the cheque, SportPesa head of customer service, Emily Gichuki, dispelled reports gaining currency on mainstream and online media that Korir would pay the government some Sh42m in tax from his winnings. “We are waiting for guidance from authorities on how to implement this and we will not deduct anything. This could not have come at a better week than this because it is our customer service week. We are honoured to be presenting this cheque to you. Continue to play responsibly and we hope this relationship will continue for long,” Ms Gichuki, who was holding brief for SportPesa CEO, Captain Ronald Karauri, remarked. His predecessor as MJP winner, Gordon Ogada, who scooped Sh Sh230, 742,881 that remains the highest payout in history in February, escorted Korir to receive his cash. Ogada advised Korir to first take a holiday with his family to soak it all in to afford him time to chart out a prudent investment plan for his huge bonus since his phone will not stop ringing with many seeking a piece or to advise him on how to spend the MJP payout. “I made a long-term investment whose fruits will not be seen now but they will benefit my children and grand children. Invest wisely and God will guide you. I have faith you will succeed and one day, you will be in Canaan,” Ogada counselled.