T amarind Tree Hotel, situated next to the Carnivore Restaurant, is the latest addition to the Tamarind Group of Restaurants and Hotels. At first the security check seems intimidating, but they were very friendly and professional. The hotel exterior looks average but the inside is visually attractive and adorned with Afro-contemporary décor. I found the staff warm and welcoming. Their semi-casual uniforms of long-sleeved black T-shirts are printed with words such as ‘Welcome’, ‘Meet’ and ‘Food’. They complement the young, vibrant feel of the hotel. I liked their high-top work stations one side of the lobby, where guests can work on their laptops. Other people were seated in the Dawa Lounge, which has lot of natural light from the tall windows. Photographic art of cultural portraits hangs on the walls, while the restaurant has colourful pictures of local farming communities. The Tamambo Restaurant, with indoor or outdoor seating, faces the pool and garden areas, which brings in a touch of nature. The menu combines local and international meals. The Chapakazi platter of assorted grilled meats is best enjoyed with friends. Tamarind Group has also brought some of their best signature dishes, such as Zanzibari Samaki wa Kupaka, Seafood Bisque and Prawns Calypso. I enjoyed their freshly squeezed fruit juice with my lunch. On Sundays they have a family buffet, complete with a children’s play area and cartoon films. For quick meals, you can select something from the Duka coffee shop in the lounge area. It offers sandwiches, salads, pastries, coffee, snacks, beer and wines, all of which can also be delivered to your room. The bar area is decorated in large neon-coloured pictures. It gets animated in the evenings with an after-work crowd and music playing. Their legendary Dawa cocktail is on the menu. I viewed the guestrooms. They are bright and airy, with an understated elegance and modern amenities. I was informed that the windows are double-glazed to minimise noise disturbance. Tamarind Tree is suitable for business travellers as well as holiday guests. From here, it is an easy drive to the main airport and Wilson Airport.  LOCATION: Off Langata Road, next to Carnivore Restaurant CONTACTS: +254 709 240 000  Star Rating: 4/5