The proposed referendum will not distract the government from implementing its development agenda, Deputy President William Ruto has said. Speaking on Meru yesterday, Ruto said the vote should be approached with caution so it does not divide Kenyans along ethnic lines. “We have worked hard to bring Kenyans together. This unity has been the foundation of the development we are pushing today,” Ruto said. He spoke during a service at St Nicholas AIPCA church in Imenti. Ruto said the referendum should not be about creating more positions in government. Some proponents are pushing for the creation of a Prime Minister and two deputies. Ruto said he will oppose such a move. Ruto was accompanied by Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi, MPs Moses Kirima (Central Imenti), Rahim Dawood (North Imenti), Rindikiri Murwethania (Buuri), Halima Mucheke (Nominated) and Mpuri Aburi of the East African Legislative Assembly. They said Kenyans would be divided on tribal and party lines if the referendum is not approached with caution. Read: Ruto says he'll support referendum to ease Kenyans burden “Referendum is a dangerous thing. It divides communities. The skirmishes we had in 2007-2008 were the ripples of the 2005 referendum,” Murungi said. Ruto said the referendum should be about the needs of Kenyans. On Saturday, The DP said he will support a referendum to reduce the burden on Kenyans. He said the government remains focused on its development plans and will not be distracted by the referendum quest. “We are intensifying power connectivity in Meru region. Since 2013, more than 95,000 households have benefited from the last mile project. We expect another 30,000 to be connected soon,” Ruto said. Murungi told the congregation that Ruto was best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022 given his development record. “We have no other leader so far who can compete the Deputy President in transforming Kenya. So referendum or no referendum, William Ruto will be Kenya’s next president,” Murungi said. Kirima and Aburi said the country risk losing impetus on development it it goes for a referendum. Kirima asked leaders to work together and uplift the living lives of Kenyans. “Let us not push for changes in laws just to display supremacy. We must assess the current one Constitution and its gaps then agree on the way forward," Kirima said. Aburi said Kenya should not go into a referendum just because some leaders want to get power. Also Read: Don't support referendum to create more positions - Ruto Click here for the latest political news  