Letoya Johnstone is a transgender Kenyan who identifies himself as a woman trapped in a man’s body. Speaking to Word Is, the 25-year-old said he has had difficulties living life as a transgender. At one time, he was denied medication after he was raped. "Immediately after high school, something that is really sensitive and so unfortunate from my side happened. There was a time I was in Homa Bay in 2007. I was so young and was beautiful, with glowing skin. Dressed like a girl," he said. "Hell broke loose and I was grabbed and thrown into the ditch and got badly raped. I almost lost my life. I went to the district hospital and the doctor on duty refused to treat me because he was Muslim and told my mum that he could not treat me because I was sleeping with people of my gender. "He said I was looking for people to rape me, adding that I wanted to be a woman. That is how my parents came to learn that I was gay." Before the assault, Letoya "had never had sex with anyone whatsoever." While in school, nobody wanted to be with Letoya, who now wants to be identified as a "she". "I was in my own space and nobody liked me and no parents wanted me to be with their children. Neither did the society welcome me because I was always the different one. I got traumatised," he said. How has he managed to handle trolls? "People can be negative and positive at the same time but trolls can build somebody and they can also destroy you. Nobody else can ever destroy you. The best thing to understand is that trolls come for everyone and they need it in their lives. You need to learn that everything that works against you can also work for you so long as you understand the power of reverse," Letoya said. He is a fashion stylist and catwalk trainer who always shares photos flaunting his ‘curves' on social media, working with local and international brands. "I have worked with Parents magazine, Akothee, Lupita Nyong'o's stylist, among other big brands. How is he treated in everyday life? Does he have to explain everything to people about his sexuality? "I have to explain myself and tell people what transgender is and other parts of the LGBT community, or people can understand what I am coming to do as a fashion stylist or whatever." His advice to people who are fighting to be identified in the society is: "Know who you are with so that you will never have to explain yourself to people."