Two sisters in Mariakani, Kilifi, were defiled repeatedly by a man introduced to them by their mother as an uncle. The woman, Khalima (not her real name), said she knew about the offence on September 19 after her daughters opened up. She said there are attempts to cover up the case. Khalima said two Somali elders and the suspect approached her to drop the case. Khalima said the elders do not want the police involved in the case. “I was so pained and I could not even open my eyes to see how much it was. I chased the suspect out of my house. I did not accept the money,” she said. She said the suspect is a not a relative and he molested her children in her house when she was away. The suspect, in his late 20s, works at a garage adjacent to Khalima's house. The eldest girl told the Star the man forced himself on her. The girl said she was given Sh50 on September 18. She said the man always gave the girls Sh10 “but never asked for anything in return”. “The day he forced himself on me, he covered my mouth so that I could not scream,” the 12-year-old said. Her younger sister is nine. Khalima took her daughters to hospital. On Saturday, Mariakani OCS Irungu Mwangi was hostile to journalists when asked about the case. He refused to address the press and said he could only speak to the mother. Khalima told Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma and assistant field officer Sabina Kaugi that she was offered money by the suspect to kill the case. Mariakani police boss Kennedy Onsando, however, said the mother was ready to accept some cash. “It was my informer who reported the case to the police station not the mother. That is when I instructed my officers to act and the plan was aborted,” Onsando said. But Khalima gave OB number: OB41/20/9/2018 as a proof that she reported the matter to police. Onsando said a medical report from Mariakani District Hospital showed the older daughter was defiled. He said police are looking for the suspect. Click here for the latest political news