First Lady Margaret Kenyatta on Friday hosted her visiting US counterpart Melania Trump at the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust’s Elephant nursery in Nairobi National Park. The visit followed talks between the two at the White House in August, when Margaret accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta on an official visit to Washington DC. Margaret outlined her conservation efforts, including her adoption of a baby elephant christened Tundani some years back. Tundani was estimated to be under a year old when he was adopted by Margaret in June 2013. The calf was found stranded in the Tiva River Valley, Tsavo East National Park. There were no other elephants in the area, suggesting that he had lost his mother and family as a result of poaching. During the visit to the wildlife trust, the two first ladies interacted freely with orphaned elephant calves, sharing love and care by bottle feeding them with milk. Angela Sheldrick, the executive director of the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust established in 1977, narrated to the first ladies moving stories of how the orphaned calves were rescued and brought to the orphanage. Margaret praised the trust for its efforts and care. Read: Melania, Margaret feed orphan elephant at David Sheldrick Trust She briefed Melania on the ‘Hands off our Elephants’ initiative, a broad-based wildlife conservation campaign that aims to curb poaching. Margaret is its patron. She has in the past conducted other visiting first ladies on tours to the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, signifying her keen interest in conservation effort. In August 2016, she took the spouses of the Presidents of Japan, Central Africa Republic, Mauritius, Mali, Somalia, Lesotho and Cote d’ Ivoire to the trust, where they had an opportunity to interact with the calves. The first ladies were in the country to attend the Sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) in Nairobi. In December 2013, Margaret also hosted the First Lady of Sri Lanka, Shiranthi Rajapaksa. Melania has been to Ghana and Malawi as part of her first solo international trip. Her last stop will be Egypt. She arrived in Ghana on Tuesday. Also Read: [PHOTOS] Melania Trump samples wildlife, dances with kids in Kenyan trip Click here for the latest political news