A 33-year-old woman is nursing injuries in her legs and right hand following a panga attack allegedly by her husband. Sarah Wangari, from Mung’etho village in Mairo Inya, Ndaragwa, on Thursday said her husband Josphat Kiongo attacked her on October 4 at a home where she had been employed to take care of livestock. The mother of six said the money she earned from her job was to feed and educate her children aged between four and 14. Wangari said she has known no peace since she married Kiongo more than 14 years ago. She said her husband beats her almost every day. “Sometimes he pulls and plucks my hair. He even burnt all my clothes and threatened me with death. If I take my children and leave, he comes looking for us and causes trouble,” Wangari said She said she stayed in the relationship for the sake of their children. Wangari said there is a time her husband threw a panga at her and injured her on the left shoulder. The woman said on the day she was attacked, Kiongo rode his motorbike to her place of work. He sent their young child to call her. When she walked outside the gate she saw him carrying a panga. “Before I could escape, he cut my leg, pushed me to the ground and went ahead to cut me again. He aimed for my neck but I blocked the panga with my right hand,” she said Wangari was saved by residents who took her to Mairo Inya police station where she recorded a statement. Her sister Rahab Wambui later took her to Nyahururu Referral Hospital. Kiongo followed them to hospital, which is a few metres from Nyahururu police station. Residents, who had accompanied them, notified the police and he was arrested. Last Friday, they were told Kiongo would be taken to court on Monday. But on Monday, they learnt he had been released. Speaking to the Star on the phone on Friday, Nyandarua North police boss Timon Odingo, said Kiongo will be arrested and taken to court after a P3 Form is filled, which will be done once Wangari is healed. He said Kiongo was released on cash bail as investigations go on. He was to be charged with assault. “The charges may be upgraded to grievous bodily harm depending on how the P3 Form will be filled. If the woman, for instance, dies within one year and one day, he will be charged with murder,” he said. Odingo said the Constitution stipulates that even suspects of murder have a right to be released on bond or bail. He said holding a suspect for more than 24 hours as investigation go on means police would ruin the case. “We have the case and I know the case is on. The only problem citizens have is that they want instance justice, yet they passed a Constitution with human rights dictates unsuitable for police work,” Odingo said. Wambui is hosting her sister and her six children in her single room house in Mairo Inya town. She has one child and the nine of them are crowded in the small house. Wangari is completely dependent on her sister and well-wishers. “My greatest fear is that Kiongo is still threatening us and those helping us. If something is not done, he may come to kill us or send somebody to do it,” Wambui said. She said by the time Kiongo attempted to kill her sister, he burned all her clothes and those of her children. “The children stay naked when I wash their clothes. They sleep on the floor,” she said County Assemblies Women MCAs caucus chairperson Milka Wanjiru visited Wangari at her sister’s home on Thursday. She said cases of domestic violence are increasing with an alarming rate in Nyandarua, but most of the time the victims keep silent or do not get help.  