The youth are yet to warm up to calls for a referendum because they are more enlightened and very keen in decisions they make. They know that problems facing this country cannot be solved through a referendum. They know addressing the high cost of living does not require a referendum. They also understand that you don't require a referendum to stop loss of public money in fighting corruption and you don't need a referendum to address huge public debt caused by reckless borrowing.They know the reality of public debt amounting to Sh4.5 trillion cannot be paid off using  a referendum. They understand the dynamic that come with various issues. These enlightened young people know that the calls for a referendum are being pushed for selfish interests. They read, listen and understand before making a decision. The youth don't want the referendum because they know that this country has gone through too much politicking in the past one year. They feel this is the right time to tone down politics, sit down and ensure that their leaders and the government give them opportunities to succeed. Youth understand that there is a problem of unemployment and they know it cannot be fixed through a referendum that is going to cost taxpayers billions. Young people of this generation are not easily swayed by politicians to support calls for a referendum because they have a stand based on what they believe. Now with education, and bearing in mind that information is power, them being more enlightened, means they cannot be easily swayed by politicians to support an issue that does not make sense to them. They are more focused and know that the calls for a referendum is inspired by selfish interest based on their previous experience. The youth are opposed to the referendum because those pushing for it want to create more positions for their own personal gain. People have also been eager to know what should be changed in the Constitution and masterminds of the referendum after realizing this, have changed their position on this issue. People want to know what it is and whose referendum is it?. The masterminds are now very cautious and cagey about it. The Nandi senator spoke to the Star Click here for the latest political news