The family of former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar yesterday rejected probation report on the two suspects charged with his attempted murder. Lawyer Charles Kanjama said the probation department left out serious material that should guide the court in determining Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki's application to be released on bail. Aden and Njoki are charged with attempting to kill Mukhtar on August 19 on Kandara Road in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, and conspiring to kill Kanjama between July 1 and September 27. They have denied the charges. The two had been granted bails and bond terms by chief magistrate Francis Andayi on September 21 but Mukhtar's lawyer Lynn Owano successfully petitioned the high court to the bail terms aside until a supplementary pre bail report is tabled in court. Read: Two suspects charged with attempted murder of Idriss Mukhtar Justice Grace Ngenye directed the comprehensive probation report be tabled in two weeks. But Kanjama said the report left out "serious material" that is critical for the court to consider in deciding the mater afresh. "The material arises from an inchoate plan and the probation failed to investigate whether there was possibility of further steps being made [in killing him and Mukhtar] in relation to the intended criminal plans," Kanjama said. He insisted that the two should remain in custody until key witnesses testify. The lawyer said the witnesses should be safe to attend court and give evidence and that is not likely to happen with the witness including himself "sharing the same corridors with the suspects who endangered their lives". "Njoki did not have a stable and continued stay with her children for several years but the probation failed to make a finding that no one has ability to guarantee her attendance to court," Kanjama said. Read: Idriss Mukhtar case: Kinoti, Haji dismiss Kanjama’s claims of cover-up But the suspects' lawyer Githinji Mwangi said the there are no compelling reasons to deny them bond terms. Mwangi said Aden has been doing business in Machakos fo the last 13 years where he has lived with his wife "and not Njoki" and children. He said Aden was properly discharged from KDF. The report indicated that although the two are claimed to be in an intimate relationship, there was no supportive evidence over the same. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki said there is no supportive evidence that the two are a couple and that needs further investigations. But Kanjama said the probation only claims of contradictory information without investigating to establish the [nature of]  relationship. The pre-bail report states that the caregiver of Njoki's children is her mother and the area assistant chief could not vouch for Njoki although he is well conversant with her family. The report also indicated that there is no inter clan tension in Garissa as earlier indicated but the probation officers only visited Aden's ancestral home and did not visit Mukhtar's. Kanjama said the probation failed to get an assessment of the the suspects' security from police considering that their accomplice [David Mwai] died mysteriously while in police custody, which was a serious material. The lawyer said there are reported plans for removal of Aden out of the country and the probation did not include cogent information on that. The lawyer who the two suspects allegedly  plotted to kill alongside Mukhtar opposed their release on bond. Andayi will rule on the application on Friday. Details: How I was hired to kill Idriss Mukhtar - David Mwai Click here for
the latest political news