Machakos governor Alfred Mutua has created a County Budget and Economic Forum. Mutua announced the names of those appointed to the forum alongside individuals nominated as municipal board members. He said both the appointments and nominations are constitutional. “In accordance with Section 137 of the Public Finance Management Act 2012, I have appointed the following persons to be members of the County Budget and Economic Forum to carry out consultations on budget processes as per Section 209 of the regulations made under the Public Finance Management Act...” Mutua said yesterday. The appointees represent different groups and include Benjamin Musau (professionals), Peter Kwinga (business community), Boniface Kavuvi (labour sector), Janet Ngungu (women), Anne Munyao (persons with disability), Elizabeth Mutuku (elderly persons), Titus Masika and Bernard Nguyo (faith-based groups), Patrick Kitingima (cooperatives) and Mary Mutua (youth). The governor said the forum’s main objective is to ensure the voice of the ‘mwananchi’ is maintained at all levels in budget planning and execution. The governor also nominated others to be vetted by the county assembly to serve as board members in Machakos, Mavoko and Kangundo – Tala municipalities. He said the nominations were in accordance with the Urban Areas, Municipal Charters and Cities Act and all other enabling laws. Mutua said Machakos county has secured Sh1 billion per year for six years from the World Bank to finance development of roads, water, lighting, solid and liquid waste management, sewerage, emergency services and abattoirs in the three municipalities. “This work will be coordinated by these newly formed municipal boards under the guidance of our Ministry of Energy, Lands and Urban Development,” Mutua said. More than 30 MCAs opposed to Mutua’s administration on Monday staged demonstrations. They accused Mutua of executing skewed development. The MCAs also claimed Mutua had been undermining them citing an incident where the governor forcibly appointed executives without their approval.