Whiling the hours away and in deep
thought about nothing in particular, as writers are wont to do, I happened upon
a BBC Radio feature on the invention of artificial skin. Being interviewed in
the feature was Prof Ioannis V Yannas, an expert in fibres and polymers, who, along
with the late surgeon Dr John F Burke, discovered a way to make human skin
regenerate. Their innovation revolutionised the treatment of severe burns. It all started in 1969. Prof Yannas was
an assistant professor in the Fibres and Polymers Division at MIT, and Dr Burke
was the chief of staff at Shriners Burns Institute in Boston. As a surgeon, Dr
Burke felt that there was more that could be done in repairing burn victims’
skin. And so Burke approached Yannas for help in developing a bandage that
would close burn wounds faster to help them heal. A range of synthetic and natural
polymers were prepared and tested on guinea pigs, but experiment after
experiment, year in year out, all of their grafts failed to speed up the
scarring process, which is wound closure. In one case, using a particular type of
collagen polymer graft, the healing process actually slowed down, which was the
opposite of what the two men had set out to do. But, upon careful study of this
graft that was delaying wound closure, Yannas and Burke, to their utter
surprise, discovered that the collagen polymer was inducing the regeneration of
the dermis (the inner layer of skin). This was a first, as dermis does not
regenerate in adults. What was a failed experiment turned out to be a
breakthrough, and in 1981, Burke and Yannas proved that their artificial skin
worked on patients with 50 to 90 per cent burns. It took them 11 years to
accidently succeed. What kept them going for so long? Yannas
was asked in the feature. He said: ‘We had the optimism of people who don’t
know the scale of the problem they’re trying to solve.’ The wording in Yannas’ answer was, for
me, like the tolling of a church bell. It made me think of the referendum talk
currently picking up volume in our country. I look at the optimism with which
we discuss the system of government by which we are ruled, and this enthusiasm
that governance will solve our problems, and I get the feeling that we
seriously underestimate the scale of our problems. And what are our problems? There’s the
stripping of a sense of belonging for many Kenyans, brought about by the chasm
between rich and poor, and the rising sectionalism sentiment that devolution
engenders. The idea of nation has also slowly slipped from our grasp, such that
we’re not so much a nation but more a commercial enterprise, where citizens are
in it for the profit, foreigners come over to make a fast buck, and politicians
see it as a luxury welfare entitlement programme. Governance — more of it, as is, or less —
won’t solve the problems we have. And the system of government is not what
makes a country a nation. The way I see it, governance is a suit, and nation is
the man. It’s not the suit that makes the man; it’s the man that makes the
suit. But first a man (nation) has got to know
himself, be comfortable in his own skin, to know what suit (governance) suits
him. So first is, who are we? Everything else
is noise.