Five more witnesses are set to testify starting today as the inquest into the killing of Baby Samantha Pendo resumes. Two GSU officers, the Government Chemist and two investigative officers will take the stand today and tomorrow. The six-month-old died after she was allegedly hit by police officers while in her mother’s arms during election protests last year. Sixteen witnesses have already testified out of the 21 lined up by the prosecution. Two weeks ago, Kisumu Central AP commander Benjamin Koima said he and his officers did not conduct any operation in Nyalenda slum on the night Pendo was fatally assaulted. Two APs – Erick Chirchir and Cleophas Ochieng’ – have been found to have been deployed in Nyalenda. Their names appeared in the operation order. Resident magistrate Beryl Omollo is conducting the inquest. Koima termed false earlier statements by then Kisumu county commander Titus Yoma that he and then Kisumu Central police boss Christopher Mutune were commanding officers deployed in the area on the night of August 12 last year. The purpose was to quell post-election chaos. He maintained his earlier stand that his officers were deployed elsewhere, contrary to a report presented in court, saying he never commanded any operation in the slum. “I was not at any time assisting at Nyalenda. Yes! Mr Yoma lied to the court because I was never involved in making the document and did not know about it,” Koima told the court. He said there was bad blood between him and Yoma. “I remember once then deputy county commissioner Tom Macheneri came to my office and asked me if there was a problem between us because the county commander [Yoma] had directed them not to take orders from me, telling them that I was just a pastor,” Koima said. Yoma in his testimony said the Nyalenda-Kachok area was manned by Mutune the night Pendo was allegedly killed by police officers and he was with Koima. Yoma said he was in Kondele, where he led another group quelling riots. He said the officers who were manning Nyalenda and Kachok areas were under Mutune’s command. “I can confirm that the OCPD [Mutune] slept in Nyalenda that day. He was communicating on the radio and giving updates either to me or the control room from that area,” Yoma said. But Mutune denied being in Nyalenda, saying he was ordered to retreat after chaos broke out. He said he was instructed to instead provide security to vital installations after his officers were overwhelmed by protesters. Mutune said he relayed the instructions to all sector commanders without questioning them. Pendo’s mother Achieng’ told the inquest in February that anti-riot officers stormed Nyalenda slum to quell protets after the presidential election results were announced. Achieng’ told the court that officers first broke into her brother-in-law’s house. After a few minutes, they came to their locked house and lobbed teargas canisters inside. The couple managed to get out and ran. “I told the officers that I surrender, that they should not beat me, because I had a small baby with me. One officer let me pass but another tried to hit me,” Achieng’ narrated. “I blocked [the blow] with my left hand. Another hit me on the back. When I turned, the one in front hit my baby.”