The government will go after parents whose children will be found in possession of phones in schools during national exams, Education CS Amina Mohamed said yesterday. According to the CS, the parents will be held liable for abetting crime after a directive that made actionable the use of any communication devices within the school compound during exams. It only allows school heads, who double up as centre managers, to have a phones in the school compound during the exams. The government will, however, tap into the school heads phones during the period to monitor suspicious activities that might hurt the integrity of the exams. The Interior ministry will be in charge of the monitoring. The directive comes three weeks before the commencement of the KCPE exam. It is set for October 30. Read: No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned “Parents whose children will be found with mobile phones in school will be held responsible for the actions. Their children will immediately be suspended from school, and such candidates will not be allowed to sit the exams,” Amina said in Nairobi. Knec chairperson George Magoha said phones have proven to be the biggest challenge in curbing exam malpractices. “When a centre has early exposure to the examination, and they can have access to just a single phone, it is enough to disseminate that information countrywide. That is the challenge we are having with phones,” he told the Star on the phone yesterday. Sources from the examination council yesterday revealed that distribution of writing materials will begin this week and the question papers next week. Read: Uhuru assures KCPE, KCSE candidates of fair and secure 2018 exams Knec says the exams will be ferried from Nairobi to subcounties, where they will be handed over to county commissioners for safe keeping in containers. Currently, the government uses 459 containers to store the exams. “In cases where road transport will not be viable, the council will airlift the materials to ensure no delays are encountered,” Magoha said. The county commissioners will act as safe keepers of the containers key and will open them the morning of the exams and when returning the papers back. Centre managers will be responsible for picking the exams in the company of a security guard from the containers each morning. “We need the fewest number of people to handle the exams so we can detect if anything goes wrong,” Magoha said. Click here for the latest political news 