The Kenya National Union of Teachers yesterday suffered a major setback in its bid to stop the Teachers Service Commission from transferring 85 members holding union positions. The TSC, through a statement to media houses, said it is “unreasonable and discriminatory” for Knut to block the transfer of 85 teachers out of the 321,007 serving in public schools. The commission and Knut have been meeting in Naivasha. The five-day meeting started on Monday. CEO Nancy Macharia opposed the Wilson Sossion-led Knut’s push to have the commission grant its elected officials special treatment in the ongoing transfers. “The union’s demand for the TSC to exempt some elected officials from operational policies and regulations can only undermine provision of quality teachers and, by extension, the quality of education. This is not tenable,” she said. Macharia said Knut’s demand violates Article 27 of the Constitution and Section 4 of the TSC Act that prevents unfair treatment or discrimination of its employees. Read: Teacher transfers ill plan to destroy unions – Sossion “Employees who hold elective offices in unions, saccos, among others, are primarily employed to teach and are bound by the Code of Regulations for Teachers, which include provisions on transfers of teachers,” she said. In August, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the TSC to review the delocalisation policy that had seen it initiate mass transfers. He said he had received complaints it was breaking families. TSC and Knut officials differed on the matter during their meeting in Naivasha. The statement disclosed that Knut officials sought to have the issue suspended to a later date after the teachers’ employer refused to honour to their demand. Macharia insisted that her commission has allowed 111 Knut officials serving as executive secretaries to work full-time in the union offices across the country. She said they acted in good faith to promote cordial work relations between them. “Election to any union office cannot, therefore, be used to irregularly amend the contract between an employee and the employer,” the CEO said. She said teachers’ employment letters and the commission’s collective bargaining agreement with Knut allows the posting of teachers to any school their services are required without granting any preferential treatment to anyone. Read: President wants teacher transfer policy reviewed “TSC exercises this mandate within the framework of the Constitution, the TSC Act, the Code of Regulations for Teachers and the CBA to ensure equity in distribution and optimal utilisation of teachers,” Macharia said. The parties have also been deliberating on the implementation of the 2017-21 CBA. Issues in the CBA include promotion, career progression, teachers appraisal programme and transfers. The TSC will continue with talks on the implementation of the CBA for the “benefit of the Kenyan child”, Macharia said. She urged Knut officials to prioritise learners’ interests. Also Read: Senators reject teacher transfers Click here for the latest political news