The 2009 league champions Sofapaka have parted ways with dependable Ugandan centre half Rodgers Aloro ahead of their SportPesa Shield Cup final against Kariobangi Sharks on October 20. Aloro, whose contract with the ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ was due to expire in July next year, was served with a notice to leave the club yesterday after training session in a move aimed at paving way for another foreign player. The towering centre half joined Sofapaka in June from Ugandan side Saints FC and quickly established himself as a regular starter in the team which was then under tutelage of Sam Ssimbwa. He scored five goals in his maiden season, thanks to his free-kick prowess. Despite having had a good debut in 2017 and an equally stellar 2018, Aloro was served with a shocker yesterday after being informed that he was surplus to requirement at the John Baraza-coached club. He said he was informed by his bosses that he was sacrificed to pave way for a Congolese defender who plies his trade with the already relegated Wazito. Early this year, the club was on the spot for mysteriously terminating the contract of another Ugandan defender Jonathan Mugabi whom they later replaced with Burundian international Mousa Oumar. A physically agitated Aloro was at pains to express his disappointment with the club for ending his contract days to the Shield Cup final. He said: “ I am annoyed that the club decided to cut my contract with nine months remaining. I would have been pleased if I was axed on performance grounds but I leave the club a bitter man for I was deemed as a sacrificial lamb. I served them to the best of my capacity but it’s sad to be paid back in such a unprofessional way. I wish them best of luck in their endeavours.” Meanwhile, the club risks to miss their skipper Mathias Kigonya in the final as his contract expires tomorrow. The Ugandan goalkeeper will cease to be Sofapaka player this Friday, leaving Baraza to rely on former Mathare United custodian Wycliffe Kasaya to man the goal. Kigonya revealed that he had not been approached to have his contract renewed. At the same time, forwards Umaru Kasumba and Justin Mico are doubts for the clash as they are nursing knee injuries.