Kenya Commercial Bank has placed an offer to take over the defunct Imperial Bank Limit which was placed under receivership in October 2015. Central Bank of Kenya announced this yesterday even after High Court had allowed Kenya Tea Development Authority’s request to extend the bank’s receivership to January 15, 2019. "Central Bank of Kenya and Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation announce the receipt of a binding offer dated September 27, 2018, from KCB Bank Kenya Limited with respect to Imperial Bank Limited (in receivership) as part of the Expression of Interest (EOI) process that was announced on October 13, 2017. CBK and KDIC did not however reveal details of the offer, saying they will do so in a meeting with depositors and as soon as the binding offer has been fully assessed. On Tuesday, High Court allowed Kenya Tea Development Authority’s request to extend the bank’s receivership to January next year in order to negotiate for a better offer with KCB. Tea Authority whose Sh2.9 billion was locked in the bank when it was put under receivership had on July 30 applied for extension, but its request overtaken by another one by CBK KDIC where they had requested High Court to extend receivership by 70 days for similar reasons. "We the undersigned advocates for the parties in this suit do hereby request you to sign consent that application be mentioned on January 15, 2019 and status quo of the bank maintained," read the consent letter issued by court on Tuesday. Depositors had asked CBK and KDIC to push KCB to give a better deal after it emerged that the latter had offered depositors less than 40 per cent of their deposit. The 70 days extension prayer granted to CBK and KDIC was to expire next Tuesday before the court allowed KTDA’s application Imperial Bank collapsed after it emerged that it was operating two sets of books, with a potential fraud of $449 million (Sh44.9 billion). "We are aware of KTDA’s application but must get concurrence from Other IBL Depositors, IBL Shareholders, CBK and KDIC,’’ depositors’ lobby group chairperson Mohamoud Khambiye said.