Migori governor Okoth Obado’s stint on remand ended yesterday after the High Court finally granted him bail, pending trial for his lover’s murder. Obado had been in remand since September 21. He was the first person to be charged with the gruesome murder of his 26-year-old mistress Sharon Otieno. Justice Jessie Lessit granted him Sh5 million bail and two sureties of a similar amount. She ruled that the circumstantial evidence against him was not sufficient to extend his time in custody. Obado will however be required to deposit all his travel documents, including his Kenyan, East African and diplomatic passports, if any, with the court. The court said it will cancel his bail term if he contacts or intimidates witnesses directly or by proxy. Obado will also be required to report once a month to the deputy registrar of the court and not go anywhere within 20km of HomaBay county’s boundary on all sides. Read: [VIDEO] Okoth Obado released on Sh5m cash bail in Sharon's murder The court ordered Obado to refrain from mentioning or discussing Sharon or the murder case in any gathering or political meeting, whether public or private. He was also cautioned against intimidating Sharon’s siblings and other close relations. “This court will be at liberty to cancel his bail if any of the mentioned conditions are breached. Obado should also not cause an adjournment in this case, or else his bail will be cancelled,” Lessit said. His co-accused, Micheal Oyamo and Caspal Obiero, were however denied bail. Lessit said releasing the duo might send fear and anxiety to potential witnesses and lead to intimidation, which may hurt the case. “Their release is likely to disturb public order and peace and security, especially bearing in mind the reaction of the public at the time of the arrest and the investigations into this case,” she said. Lessit said the reasons presented by the prosecution were compelling enough as the accused would likely abscond. The two indicated they will appeal the decision. Read: Obado barred from Sharon's home county Homa Bay as condition for bail Click here for the latest political news