President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday met NASA principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula at State House, Nairobi. In a Tweet, Uhuru said that the leaders and their followers have called a truce with him. Wetangula has been a strong critic of President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga, especially after the March 9 handshake. "Today I was humbled and honoured by Western leaders and Wiper Party members for joining me in the development agenda for Kenyans and putting aside political differences," Uhuru said on Twitter. Kalonzo (Wiper Party), Wetangula (Ford Kenya) and Mudavadi (Amani National Congress) were left out in the 'handshake', a fact that widened the rift between the opposition partners. And although Kalonzo was seen to warm up to the President and Raila Odinga, both Wetangula and Mudavadi pledged to unite their parties to strengthen their muscle as the Western region. The ANC-Ford Kenya merger plan and resulting brouhaha isolated and sidelined Kalonzo, more so because Raila already cut a cooperation deal with Jubilee. On July 16, Wetangula said NASA is dead but said he will not join Deputy President William Ruto's camp. He said he has his own house (Ford Kenya) and will build it to make it stronger ahead of 2022. Read; NASA is dead but I'm not joining Ruto - Wetangula The President first held talks with Wetangula and other leaders from the Western region. The talks focused on the fight against corruption and the building bridges initiative. Other leaders who attended the meeting included current Governors, Senators and MPs. Also in attendance were former Vice President Moody Awori, former Speaker of the  National Assembly Kenneth Marende, former Minister Cyrus Jirongo and two current MPs from Nairobi, Tim Wanyonyi (Westlands) and George Aladwa (Makadara). Mudavadi sent his apologies through Wetangula. They also discussed the revival of sugar companies in Western Kenya. The President issued a one-month deadline to a team working on a revival plan for Mumias and Nzoia sugar mills to complete their assignment and present the way forward. “I am certain that within one month, we shall have the way forward on how to revamp the sector and where to invest more money,” said the President. President Uhuru said the government cannot continue pumping more money to these companies because the money goes to endless pits. Wetangula called for a firm government policy that checks on imported maize and sugar to ensure cheap imports do not destabilize local production. Uhuru later met Kalonzo and Wiper leaders. Kalonzo said he and his Wiper brigade will fully support the President's 'Building Bridges Initiative' which seeks to unite all Kenyans. He said the party leadership had passed a resolution to work with the Government. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said Kenyans fully appreciate the government’s development agenda as illustrated through the Big 4 Agenda including efforts being made towards the realization of Universal Health Coverage (UHC). Also read;  Wetangula declares war on Raila, warns of painful revenge Read: Ford-K, ANC merger rattles Kalonzo Click here for the latest political news