Did the team constituted by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) to vet procurement officers and heads of accounting units do its work properly? Questions have emerged about the usefulness of the exercise after cleared officers, known to be corrupt, began trooping back to their workstations. In some offices, eyes were turning at some of the most corrupt officials known to be so wealthy that their bank statements could have easily sold them out. But alas! They sailed through the vetting. A source lamented to Corridors that either the vetting was plagued by favouritism or the team was incompetent. Corridors is reminded of some famous radical surgeries and clean-up operations that achieved nought. Who is this lady known as Lentinina whose accounts have been frozen for six months in connection with some deals in Samburu county? Disturbing claims have surfaced that the Judiciary has said there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the transactions may smack of corrupt conduct. It’s not clear what happened, but a little bird whispered that it involves payment of millions for some mortgage. Corridors is looking for Samburu governor Moses Lenolkulal to tell you more. A senior Jubilee operative from Northeastern has been sucked into a tender scandal at a parastatal within the energy sector. A company owned by the politician is said to have been awarded a Sh1.8 billion tender for the supply of some strategic materials without meeting the basic requirements set out in the initial tender documents. The politician is said to have used his connections to force the retendering of the contract after failing to make it in the initial stage. It was at the second attempt that he managed to manoeuvre his way after the firm apparently altered the specifications in an orchestrated move to lock out other bidders in his favour. It is time the investigating agencies directed their focus at the corporation to blow up the scam. What is holding Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji from nailing suspects at the helm of a multibillion-shilling state corporation? Is there political interference? The questions are flying amid allegations that a top Jubilee executive drove to the DCI to rescue a parastatal chief who had been detained after hours of interrogation. The man was allegedly earmarked for prosecution, but, somehow, the wheels have stopped turning. Matters were made worse after a report sent to the parent ministry indicated clearly the parastatal has been losing millions of shillings. Will anybody be held to account for the losses at the cash cow? Click here for latest political news