A CT (Computed Tomography) Scan is an X-ray
procedure that creates cross-sectional images with the help of a computer
processing. A patient lies inside a tunnel equipped
with a scanner. The patient’s bed moves slowly through the tunnel and stops.
The scanner circles the patient and X-rays are beamed and received at many
points along the circumference of the tunnel. Each time the bed moves, the scanner
circles again. A computer analyses the information received by the X-rays and
constructs an image of the slice of the body. The CT images are more detailed than
conventional X-ray images and can reveal bones as well as soft tissue and
organs. A conventional X ray uses a fixed tube that sends X rays only in one
direction, which is then represented into a two-dimensional or flat sheet of
film. On the other hand, a CT scanner uses a
modernised X-ray source that shoots neural beams of X-ray as it rotates around
the patient. There are special digital X-ray detectors located directly
opposite the X-ray source. As the X-ray passes through the patient,
they are picked up by the detectors and transmitted to a computer. Image slices
can either be displayed individually in two-dimensional form or stuck together
to generate a three-dimensional image that can reveal abnormal structure or
help a physician plan or monitor treatment. SOFT-TISSUE EVALUATION CT Scans and MRIs are relied to evaluate
soft tissues, such as the brain, liver, and abdominal organs, as well as to
visualise subtle abnormalities that may not be apparent on regular X-ray tests. People often have CT scans to further
evaluate an abnormality seen on another test, such as an X-ray or an
ultrasound. They may also have a CT to check for specific symptoms, such as
pain or dizziness. People with cancer may have a CT to evaluate the spread of
disease. A head or brain CT is used to evaluate the
various structures of the brain to look for a mass, stroke, area of bleeding or
blood vessel abnormality. It is also sometimes used to look at the skull. The single biggest advantage of the CT Scan
is the ability to assemble a 3D image of what’s inside the area imaged,
including the relationship of the organs and other parts to each other. In conventional X-rays, the structures
overlap. For example, the ribs overlay the lung and heart. In an X-ray,
structures of medical concern are often obscured by other organs or bones,
making diagnosis difficult. In a CT image, overlapping structures are
eliminated, making the internal anatomy more apparent. CT images allow radiologists and other
physicians to identify internal structures and see their shape, size, density
and texture. This detailed information can be used to
determine if there is a medical problem as well as the extent and exact
location of the problem, and other important details. A CT scan that shows no abnormality still
provides useful data. The information aids the health care provider by focusing
attention away from unnecessary medical concerns. This ensures there are no
cases of misdiagnosis and wrong treatment. The technology helps in determining when
surgeries are necessary and also reduces the need for exploratory surgeries. CT Scan specifically improves cancer
diagnosis and treatment, and reduces the length of hospitalisations. The
technology guides treatment of common conditions, such as injury, cardiac
disease and stroke. In an emergency room, patients can be
scanned quickly so doctors can rapidly assess their condition. Emergency
surgery might be necessary to stop internal bleeding. CT images show the
surgeons exactly where to operate. Without this information, the success of
surgery is greatly compromised.