Mathare United are looking to strengthen their squad with a view to challenging for honours when the new season kicks off on December 8, thanks to their Sh60 million three-year deal with OdiBets. The 2008 Kenyan champions sealed a top eight finish with a 1-1 draw with Ulinzi Stars on October 7 to bring to a close a difficult season both financially and on the pitch. Midfielder Cliff Nyakeya was one of the brightest stars of the campaign netting 14 goals with striker Clifford Alwanga also hitting double digits with 10 goals for the Slum Boys. Having struggled to retain their best players, some of whom moved clubs, Mathare United Club CEO Jectone Obure said coach Francis Kimanzi will be facilitated to sign players he needs. “The deal with OdiBets came at the right time for us. The future looks good. The coach is with the national team at the moment and soon as he returns he will advise us on the players he has identified,” Obure said. Coach Kimanzi praised the stride made by his young players adding that the new season will provide yet another stepping stone for the youngsters. “I am happy with what we have done this year. There is some huge development in the playing unit. We have played some good football and the youngsters have shown a lot of maturity. We can only get better,” Kimanzi said the club website. OdiBets Country marketing manager, Dedan Mungai, said their purse is ready to help Mathare United achieve their goals and their grassroot programmes. “Mathare United is a peoples’ team, which perfectly fits with our ideals. We (OdiBets) are the people and the people are us. Hence the name. Sisi ni maODInare. “We understand our customers and what they have been longing for. They asked for a good platform and more pocket friendly minimum stakes and we obliged,” Mungai said. The new top tier league season kicks off on December 8 as Kenya seeks to transition to a new calendar in line with the Confederation of Africa Football (Caf) directive. Champions Gor Mahia will represent Kenya in the Caf Champions League while the winner of FKF Cup will play in the Confederation Cup.Kariobangi Sharks and Sofapaka will contest the final on October 20.