Traffic Commandant Samuel Kimaru has been stripped of his powers in the new police reforms. "My work now is policy formulation, awareness and implementation. I'm also in charge of monitoring government vehicles which include parastatal and school cars. I'll link traffic police with any agency that needs information regarding them," Kimaru said. The Traffic Commandant spoke on Citizen TV on Monday. He said previously traffic police officers reported to the base commander, who reported to regional traffic officer then to him. Traffic officers were deployed to police stations where a traffic section was set up. But this has changed. Read: Boinnet to scrap 12 top offices in reforms The officers now report to OCS and OCPD who report to county commander. The county commander then reports to the Deputy Inspector General who is answerable to the Inspector General of Police. “This is meant to strengthen the enforcement of rules in the traffic department in the counties," Kimaru said. “Every police station has a traffic section despite the merger. The OCS is now in charge of traffic officers and reports to the OCPD. The OCPDs are now known as sub-county police commanders." Kimaru said he has other roles such as ensuring the security of goods in transit to the neighbouring countries and will report to the Deputy Inspector General. Read: No officer will lose his job over reforms, Boinnet tells police On the increased road carnage, Kimaru blames drivers. He said they need to careful on the roads. "Drive at appropriate speeds and overtake where allowed,” he said. Kimaru said at night, the number of roadblocks have been reduced on the Northern Corridor to allow transit goods vehicles to move quickly. "There were a lot of complaints from our neighbours that goods are delaying, that is why we reduced the roadblocks," he said. Kimaru said the policy of drivers not working for more than eight hours in a day should be reinforced. "We're going to be strict to ensure that saccos do not force drivers to drive without adequate rest," Kimaru said. Click here for the latest political news   