The woman who assaulted a nurse at the Kenyatta National Hospital has said she acted out of pain and anger. Pamela Ogola said she rushed to the hospital on Saturday after learning that her 17-year-old son Elisha Juma had died. She was told by Juma’s elder brother, Gideon, who was looking after him when she was away. Ogola told the Star in an interview on Monday that the nurse was insulting when she asked about her dead son. “She rudely told me that she had finished with Gideon,” she said. The 40-year-old single mother of two said the nurse walked away when she asked her to be polite. “When she emerged from the nearby room, I lost my temper and clung onto her hair,” Ogola said. She claimed her son had told her that nurses were harassing them. “He wanted to be transferred to another hospital but the doctors refused,” she said. The family wanted to take Juma to Nairobi West Hospital. Nurses at KNH on Monday protested the beating of their colleague who is recuperating at the hospital’s ICU. The management and Kenya National Union of Nurses also condemned the attack. CEO Thomas Mutie urged patients and their families to follow procedures in addressing grievances. Ogola was arrested and taken to Capitol Hill police station but was released on free bond. She was ordered to report to the station every Monday. Kilimani police boss Michael Muchiri said they could not detain her because the assaulted nurse had not recorded a statement. “The law allows us to release her because the nurse has not filed a P3 form. The law will take its course once all procedures are complete,” Muchiri said. Police were waiting for the CCTV footage to review the assault. Ogola denied claims she hit the nurse with a blunt object. “How could that be possible? Those are fabrications because security officers cannot allow visitors to enter the hospital with an object,” she said. KNH communications manager Simon Ithai said the nurse was not allowed to speak to reporters because it would jeopardise investigations.