Extrajudicial killings by police are getting more numerous by the day but authorities are not doing enough to stop escalation of these killings. However, we are trying to assemble criminal justice actors to address this worrying trend. The DPP has come out strongly to support this initiative, which is being prepared, and he is set to hit the ground. Police are giving mixed signals when you speak to authorities and those in power. The other day I was with police spokesperson Charles Owino and he communicated the commitment by police to end extrajudicial killings. They say one thing but the situation is completely different. Yesterday or the day before in Mathare youth were shot dead by police. At the Coast we are also seeing more reports of extrajudicial killings. Ipoa are trying but unfortunately they lack capacity. The government has deliberately denied them resources to do their work but more needs to be done to build Ipoa's capacity to do more. The role of citizens is two-fold. First is to share information when they see an officer involved in killing or they have information that can lead to the arrest of anyone who has committed a crime. They have a duty to share information, report to the police and ensure the guilty person faces the law. Second is to reduce crime in the community. Most youth involved in crime are our brothers and sisters and we must intervene before they end up being killed. The role of civil society is to document incidents, be the watchdog and hold the police accountable because currently police enjoy impunity. They kill suspects and immediately their bosses come to their defence. As civil society, we have a duty to ensure police are held accountable. We must also ensure that the rule of law is applied and anyone who commits a crime is arrested and faces the law, including the police. If they kill someone, they should be arrested and face the law.  The Executive Director of Haki Africa spoke to the Star  Click here for the latest political news 