How much does the security guard at your
residence, office or favourite shopping mall earn? The Kenya National Private
Security Workers’ Union says most are grossly underpaid, earning as low as Sh5,000
in monthly wages and living from hand to mouth. KNPSWU secretary general Isaac Andabwa
says most are earning below the minimum monthly wage of Sh14,421 and work under
inhumane conditions, as the Labour ministry drags implementation of the minimum
pay regulation. Andabwa spoke to the Star. Q: What is the number of security guards
in the country. Do they play their role, and what are their grievances? A: The number of private security officers
in Kenya is around 500,000, according to the government. They are employed in
about 2,000 firms. In comparison with the National Police Service, we are ahead
of them by 400,000, because they have about 100,000 officers. The issue of payment is the problem we are
still talking about. There are security workers earning Sh5,000 or Sh8,000. They can't engage a lawyer to negotiate
for a Collective Bargain Agreement because they are not in unions, and if you
don't have a strong union, there is no way you can negotiate for a CBA. Almost 90 per cent of private security
companies have not complied with government regulations setting the minimum
wage at Sh14,000. Those that have complied are countable: G4S,
KK, SGA, Securex, Wells Fargo, BM and a few others. They are less than 10. The rest don’t pay workers in accordance
with the law because somebody in the government is not doing their job in
terms of tendering procedure and enforcement of the law. You cannot be talking about exploitation
of Kenyans working for Chinese in SGR, claiming that the Chinese employer is
frustrating and exploiting Kenyans yet and I have reported to the Labour ministry
about 2,000 employers who are exploiting workers. Kenyans themselves don’t respect the
constitution. Before we deal with the SGR and Chinese, lets deal with our own
who are betraying their own and set the pace. We cannot pretend that the Chinese have
caused a lot of problems to Kenyans, while Kenyan employers are exploiting and stealing
from their employees — their countrymen — with impunity. Why has the underpayment persisted,
despite the government setting the minimum pay for all workers, and has the union
intervened on non-compliance? The enforcement of the minimum wage is
entirely the responsibility of the Labour ministry under the labour commission. But even the firm guarding the ministry's offices, Hatari
Security, is paying guards less than Sh10,000. It is an irony. We cannot now begin saying
the problem is the employer or the worker. The problem is the same government
because Kenyans don't have powers to control bandit employers. Gyto, which is also not complying with the
requirements, is guarding Judiciary premises, but a few others who have
complied are left out. How did they find their way into that
office, and who approved them? What that says is that the government
itself has some serious problems. The government should only contract
employers who have complied with the minimum wage policy. You don’t take
thieves, corrupt people who are operating with impunity, and plant them at the
Supreme Court and NSSF [Labour ministry offices]. That is totally wrong. Has the union sought the court’s
intervention over the Labour ministry's failure to enforce the
regulations? We are in court with the Gyto Security Company
because of non-issuance of payslip, but that is the employer now guarding
the Supreme Court and other law courts. That is the image of the government and is
supposed to serve as an example. If you can see Gyto at the Supreme Court, just
know at the back of your mind that there is corruption. Even [Chief Justice David] Maraga must
understand that he can't employ somebody who is underpaying, who is stealing
from a worker, then give him a contract to guard the image of the government,
in terms of the justice arm of the government. If the person who is guarding Maraga's
office is a criminal, he [Maraga] is tainting not only the image of the
government but he is also telling us that he is also not honest with what he is
doing. Because if somebody is to get a contract,
he must have fulfilled the minimum requirements. Otherwise, where do we say
this person has qualified for the contract? When somebody does not issue a
payslip to a worker, what that means is that he is not only stealing from
an employee but also from the government, because he does not pay the PAYE and
other taxes. If the judiciary engages somebody like
Gyto, then you know Kenya is still very far from accountability and doing the
things we are supposed to do in the way we are supposed to do them. What has the union been doing to improve
security workers' lives and working conditions? When we started the KNPSWU in 2010, my
assignment was to make it more vibrant and mobilise workers and make them
understand their rights. At that time, telling a guard that I want
you to join a union was like a mountain, because they believed joining a union
is a direct request for dismissal, as I personally fell victim of that after forming
the union. The workers union — Kenya Guards — was non-functional
because officials were drawn from other sectors. I made sure that to
be an official, from shop stewards to all the way to national offices, you must
have worked in the private security sector, failing which you have no business
being an official. They did not come from the rank and files of
the private security service, which meant they did not have the problems of the
workers at heart. They just came to scout for funds and then disappear. They could not understand where the
problems of the private security sector were coming from because they were not
part of the engagement. We declared that we needed to have a
constitution that has the interests of private security sector officers at
heart. In terms of salary, the workers’ pay at
that time in comparison to now was pathetic. Most people were getting meagre
salaries, and the workers' trade union was in ICU because there was no
representation and workers were being terminated recklessly. We have managed to organise 100,000 members,
and the organisation is ongoing. Previously we had an official in the eight former
provinces, but we have gone beyond that up to county levels. We want to register our presence in every
county so that our members on the ground realise they need to belong to the
union, are enlightened and are taught the importance of being unionisable
members. How do the security guards and their
employers perceive the union, and what are the guarantees on job security for
those joining KNPSWU? We are telling the private security guards
that if professors are in Uasu, teachers in Knut, nurses in KNUN and workers
in government have unions and are more enlightened than ourselves, then we
must also be in a union. And I have begun seeing the fruits. For
the first time in this sector, since Independence, the government has begun
recognising the private security officer. [Interior CS Fred] Matiang’i is talking
about giving private security officers a gun. That is what we wanted. And
we are saying, you cannot give a gun to a guard who is hungry. We must tell
them that in order for you to remove yourself from a watchman, you must begin
saving so that as you are carrying a gun, you have some money as a civilised
person. We have seven CBAs lined up, and if you
remember Ambrose Ondongo of Knut, he fought for years and however vocal he was,
he never signed any CBA; he was only talking of a minimum wage. Wilson Sossion
was the first to sign a CBA, and you can imagine that period. The culture we want to inculcate in the
guards is that even if you are getting a few coins, have a culture of saving
and borrowing. That is why the President initiated the National Sacco for private
security workers. We want every guard to be a member of the sacco.