The Migori Senate by-election kicked off on Monday with a low turn out. Despite major campaign rallies by all six aspirants for the seat urging voters to turn out to cast their votes, empty queues and empty polling centres hall greeted IEBC officials. Attempts by youths to wake up voters at dawn using whistles and vuvuzela were futile. Migori has more than 388,000 voters. Most businesses in major towns in the county such as Migori, Sori, Awendo and Rongo remained closed, but voters didn’t turn out to vote. “We have seen empty polling centres across the county, we are facing low turnout,” Hellen Oyaro, former nominated MCA who casted her vote at St Peters Uriri Primary School in Uriri constituency said. Armed police officers and officers from National Youth Service who were to man polling centres were seen relaxing. A spot check by the Star showed that the low turnout has hit rural and remote areas the most. “I'm still In Migori town taking stock of my business, I plan to move back to Sori town and vote in time,” Agnes Nyanamba, a trader said. On Sunday, IEBC commissioner Abdi Guliye and Nyanza regional police commander Leonard Katana held a security meeting. Election materials was sent to the 826 polling stations. The county tallying centre will be at Migori TTC where results will be collated, tallied and sent. Katana said the campaigns have been peaceful with “minimum incidences which were contained". The Senate race is perceived to be a two-horse race between Ochilo Ayacko (Orange Democratic Movement) and Eddy Oketch (Federal Party of Kenya). Other candidates are; Peter Jobando (Green Congress Party), Solomon Rugaria (People's Democratic Party), Samwel Otieno (independent) and Dickson Ogolla (independent). The by-election was occasioned by the death of Senator Ben Oluoch Okello in June 2018. The former Ramogi and KBC presenter surprised his opponents when he won the August 8, 2017 election because he was not active on the campaign trail. Read: Migori Senator Ben Oluoch fought cancer bravely, loved the people - Raila Click here for the latest political news 