US First Lady Melania Trump sashayed to the beat of Kenyan music as she was welcomed to an orphanage in Gigiri, Nairobi on Friday. Dressed in brown pants, a white blouse and maroon boots, she greeted, sang and danced with the children at the 'The Nest Children's Home'. Security was tight at the premises as the visiting first lady blended with the children who kept her busy with handshakes and dances.  US first lady Melania Trump holds a child during her visit to The Nest Children's Home near Nairobi, Kenya October 5, 2018. /REUTERS Melania was later briefed as the children surrounded her. Other children were seen in walkers while others stretched and lay on their backs. As she held a baby wrapped in a blanket, the US first lady thanked the staff for taking care of the children. Melania was later seen playing with one of the children who was scrolling. The kid looked at her with dismay.  Later, she was seen walking up the orphanage path holding hands with two children. As she led the team, the other children sang as they marched and danced towards a shelter surrounded by journalists with camera's and security agents. The song and dance continued outside, where Melania read a story to the same group of children who had walked up the pathway with her.  Claps rented the air as another child read a story about the 'lion and the mouse'. "That's another book? You have great taste," Melania said as she smiled at the young child who was reading the story to the audience. Melania participated in the reading of the story as journalists kept on taking pictures.  Before visiting the orphanage, she was accompanied to the David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust by First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. Melania was seen holding the ear of an elephant and she looked at it keenly. At one point a Secret Service agent was forced to step forward to protect her after being nudged by a baby elephant she petted. The agent was seen holding the US first lady from the back as she protected her.  Later, she climbed into a tour van as she took pictures on her iPhone. Details: Melania, Margaret feed orphan elephant at David Sheldrick Trust Melania and her host are expected to head to State House for talks before going to the Kenya National Theatre. At the theatres, they will be treated to Kenyan creative cultural performances. Melania's African tour was to champion for her "Be Best" initiative, whose goals are similar to those of Margaret's Beyond Zero. The two first ladies are expected to work on a plan that will see the two initiatives complement each other.  Related: Melania Trump spotlights USAID reading programme in Malawi  /ALL PHOTOS BY REUTERS Click here for the latest political news 