A teenager whose parent wanted to deputize Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is the talk of town after he was turned down by a popular Caribbean musician based in USA. The teenager had contacted Rihanna Promotion Company for a concert in Nairobi and paid the booking fee. However, after the company conducted due diligence, Rihanna’s team turned down the offer for unknown reasons. The company is said to have googled for information on the parent which sealed the tour’s fate. Clearly, some companies still value image and are careful who to deal with. Some people should know people! ***** Corridors has learnt that some police officers managing exams are bitter with the silence of the KNEC on their allowance. The security escorts are supposed to be paid daily allowances for the three weeks that students across the country will be sitting their final exams. An officer based in Nairobi alleged that their seniors have always capitalised on the poor communication channels with the police to pocket millions due to their juniors. “The silence is a clear indication someone wants to pocket. We know them," she said. ***** Bonnie Khalwale’s revelation — publicly rebuked by Musalia Mudavadi — that he is in talks with DP William Ruto for a 2022 deal with the Luhya political elite has left many tongues wagging. Corridors overheard some Luhya MPs wondering aloud whether that could be the explanation for the "newly and sufficiently philanthropic" spirit adopted by the former Kakamega senator in fundraisers and funerals in the region. Khalwale's recent opulence is turning heads, especially among his peers who were subsidising him just the other day. ***** Is it true that Vihiga county is planning to or has acquired land worth Sh3 million for Sh24 million to build the the governor’s official residence? Our mole in the county told Corridors that a number of top county officials have been staying at a hotel in Kisumu fully paid by the county. That would be strange, considering the usually prudent and polished demenaour of governor Wilbur Otichilo. ***** Sometime back Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu protested that private health facilities should not be close to public health centers. Now it turns out, according to our mole, that the governor was protesting after he discovered that medical products and medicines provided to Kiambu Hospital and Mathare hospital end up in private health facilities in Kiambu. A police officer told Corridors that a couple of months ago a private ambulance was detained in one of the police stations after it was discovered to be carrying waste from a private hospital to dump at Kiambu hospital. ***** Click here for the latest political news