Two girls aged four-and-a-half and two years were defiled in Githurai as the family buried a relative. Yesterday, Francis Waiganjo said the suspect who molested his nieces is well-known to the police but is yet to be arrested. "We were mourning our aunt when the first incident occurred. The other incident occurred on the burial day," he told the Star on the phone. He continued: "In fact, the guy was standing next to the casket during burial. If police had arrested him during the first incident when the matter was reported, the second incident would have been prevented." Waiganjo said they took the first child to a Githurai clinic on Tuesdaylast week. "We were referred to Kiambu hospital the same day before we reported the matter at Githurai Administration Police post," he said. They later that day reported to Kiamumbi police station. "Doctors advised that we report the matter to Kiambu police station," he said. Despite making frantic efforts to ensure the suspect was apprehended, police did not take any action. However, police offi cers took action after the incident was featured in the media. "The suspect was finally arrested on Saturday following intervention of the media," Waiganjo said. He said the fact that the suspect is well known to the police might compromise the case. "When I explained to the police about the suspect, they knew him well, even where he lives," Waiganjo said. Kiamumbi OCS Charlo Juma told the Star on the phone the suspect will be charged today. Medical reports seen by the Star show there were bruises on the body of one of the girls. The rising spate of incest and defilement of children has raised alarm among authorities and children’s rights activists. The worrying part of it is that most children are sexually molested at homes, schools and on their way to or from schools, and by people close to them in a breach of the trust the children have for the perpetrators. Children are easy victims of defilement because they are weak in physical stature and mental capabilities and mostly dependent on others, who sometimes turn out to be paedophiles. Most child sex predators are fathers, uncles, cousins, grandfathers and teachers. Sexual molesters outside of family ranks include domestic workers and neighbours. 