Teachers will soon be required to use only vetted and approved textbooks as reading materials supplied to schools. In a revised policy that seeks to control what is passed in the country’s Basic Education institutions, the learners will also be required to use resources dictated by the government. This comes after claims of errors in some text books in the market. Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development equipped with the mandate to approve books used in schools says some instructional materials in the market are not approved and get their way in the market. According to KICD director, Julius Jwan, a books that has been in social media circulation "Comprehensive social studies Kiambu County" Standard Four with misleading information that states shows Nilotes occupy the central part of Kenya is not approved but found way in some schools. Jwan said approved textbooks have 99.9 per cent error approval. The new changes are contained in the Education Sector Policy on Instructional Materials 2016, which replaces National Policy on Textbooks Publication, Procurement and Supply for Primary Schools. The latter was published in 1998. It is also expected to control the standards of equipment and chemicals used for science subjects used in schools, with fingers pointed at a weak monitoring and evaluation framework of the learning materials. Teachers from all subject areas at the institutional level will be part of the committee to select materials to be considered for use. The policy states that two parents representing the Parents Teachers Association (PTA) will make it to the Instructional Materials Selection Committees. This comes at a time when the Government has taken over the responsibility of providing textbooks to primary and secondary schools and to achieve the intended 1:1 textbook ratio. “It is important that schools stick to the book policy and select one course book per subject per class,” Jwan told the Star yesterday on phone. The policy was developed with input from the KICD, KISE, KNEC and the School Equipment Production Unit (SEPU), Kenya Publishers Association, Kenya Booksellers and Stationers Association, civil society and other development partners.