Publishers have defended themselves following claims that some textbooks being used in schools have errors. In a statement on Wednesday, Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi said most of the highlighted “errors” have been taken out of context and are just perceptions. “We have established that most of the concerns in the mainstream media originate from social media platforms where they have been lifted out of context and adjudged as incorrect,” Njagi said. He gave the example of an illustration in a book where a child in full school uniform is seen digging in the school farm while the rest of the learners are in class. Njagi said this could be a form of punishment which amounts to child abuse. “The book is, therefore, correct,” Njagi said. He said an illustration of a helicopter in a different book was not a factual error but has since been addressed appropriately by the concerned publisher. “If genuine errors are pointed out to us we shall appreciate and effect corrections at the earliest opportunity,” Njagi said. Read: Book distribution to continue despite multiple errors, says PS More: House team seeks answers over textbook errors Mainstream and social media have in the past two weeks been awash with highlights of alleged errors in some pre-primary books. Njagi, however, said a concern on one page on the basis of one’s interpretational view does not negate the entire quality of a book. He also said some of the alleged errors are lifted from the old curriculum books but they have been judged as new curriculum content. “It is important to distinguish the two and clarify that they address different curriculum dispensations and therefore the content approach and scope may differ,” Njagi said. He said concepts in pre-primary to Grade 3 are written and illustrated from a child’s point of view. This, he said, poses a challenge of misinterpretation by adults. “They may, therefore, end up seeing mistakes even where none exists,” Njagi said.  Quality Control measures He said publishers and KICD make every effort to ensure approved books are of maximum content quality and accuracy. The chairman said experienced subject teachers write the books to minimise chances for errors. A separate team of teachers then reviews the manuscripts to pick and correct any factual errors. “After the teachers have written and the work reviewed, the editors step in. These are subject experts fully employed by publishing houses and who edit the work for factual accuracy and language appropriateness,” Njagi said. The edited work then goes to KICD for vetting and approval. Submitted books at the institute do not bear the publisher’s identity to ensure the process is impartial. Njagi said KICD then presents detailed reports to publishers indicating errors or omissions noted during the vetting. Publishers then correct the mistakes before returning the final approved copies for KICD to verify. All approved books are then listed in the orange book from which schools can choose. Six books are approved per subject per Grade/Class. More: KICD boss denies some textbooks are below standard Click here for the latest political news