I head home after a late check out. The next week is good for me, drowning myself in work. I actually don’t even have time to think about Rob. He didn’t respond to my dumping text message and more importantly, on how and when I’m getting the exercise bike back. He’s crazy as hell if he thinks I’m going to let him keep it. This guy is an odd one. He displays pride when it comes to some things — like not apologising when he’s clearly in the wrong — and on other stuff he doesn’t. Why keep the bike? Should he not have sent it back immediately I dumped his ass? Maybe he wants to be an asshole and just keep the damn thing, or maybe he wants me to call and try and get it off him. Which leads to conversations, which leads back to this cycle of madness. No, I can’t do it. I’m all about positive vibes, and this guy radiates bad energy. He puts me in a bad space, where I feel worthless and doubt myself. He’s great with the mind games, where you keep questioning your sanity and thinking there’s something wrong with you, not him. But not anymore, I’m done. I’ll give him three weeks, more than enough time to make arrangements to return the equipment, failing which I’ll take steps to recover the bike. Days go by and slowly, I begin to forget about Rob. That is, until he decides to get in touch again. I receive a message from him two weeks later. Mmm. He’s asking for my help to arrange for his landlord to replace the bike. Apparently there was some construction work taking place and a beam fell onto the bike and damaged it. Efforts to get his landlord to replace the bike were proving difficult, with the man asking for rent to be deducted in installments to cover the damage. Rob doesn’t have the entire amount to give me, so he needs me to help recover it from the landlord. I don’t respond. This was what I was afraid of. Conversations. But what’s worse? Months and months of hanging on while they sort this out between them or me speaking to him now and getting it over and done with? I text him the next day and ask for the landlord’s contacts. He sends the number and I try and engage the landlord the best way I can. He’s co-operative and says he’ll organise for the funds. I let Rob know. “And generally, how are you?” he asks. I’m not sure I want to answer that. This is not about the bike, this is a personal question. Is he being polite or trying to open a door again where he can walk back into the house that he razed down with his selfish behavior? “I’m fine. Doing great, actually. You should take a picture for my cover.” Using Rob for my magazine is something I’d always wanted to do, but we broke up before I could ask him. Now seems a good a time as any to ask. “Of course,” he responds. Then it’s awkward because I hadn’t really thought it through. Asking him to shoot this requires me, most likely, to be there. He’s the last person I want to see. I know how that would end. With me flat on my back and my head banging against a headboard. And asking him to do this and not following through looks like I’m the one trying to leave the back door open. Then, to top it all off, tomorrow is his birthday. Should I say anything or ignore it? Damn that exercise bike, landlord and all the forces that have conspired to keep this man in my life.