Business at Kutus town was disrupted for the better part of Friday morning after hundreds of residents demonstrated and called on the DPP to charge Josephine Kabura for lying under oath. The residents marched in major streets in the town before addressing the press where they threatened to march to the DPP s office in 14 days time if Kabura will still be free. Through their chairman Charles Kariuki,the residents wondered why Kabura was still a free person even after the EACC admitted that her affidavit against former devolution cabinet secretary,now Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru in the NYS scandal 1. Kabura adversely mentioned Waiguru in the affidavit that implicated Waiguru in the scam. Waiguru later resigned as the CS for devolution. ''We are going to take the battle to the DPPs doorstep if Kabura will not be arrested and charged for lying under oath.'' Kariuki said. The residents further called on investigating agencies to unravel who was behind Kabura's affidavit. They claimed some powerful people in government were behind the affidavit that they claim soiled Waiguru's name. Resident Joyce Muthoni said since EACC CEO Halaqe Wako released the affidavit to the public and called on the DPP Noordin Haji to commence further investigations against Kabura,Waiguru had been vindicated. Read: NYS1 scandal: Protests in Kirinyaga as locals demand Kabura arrest '' Our governor has been vindicated in the scam,let those who stole the NYS money be brought to book,despite the allegations and soiling Waiguru's name we went ahead and elected her (Waiguru) into the scandal. Last month Haji had ordered for a further probe into the affidavit in what is likely a move to open fresh investigations into the scandal that saw the taxi payer loss Sh791 million. Waiguru on Tuesday through her social media pages welcomed the move by the DPP. Waiguru said ''powerful'' people were used Kabura to implicate her in the scandal. She called for proper investigations in the scam. In August when she launched NHIF registration drive,the governor had called on investigating agencies to release to the public Kabura's affidavit. The angry residents later burned Kabura's effigy. The residents said they will continue demonstrating on a daily basis until Kabura is arrested and charged and if after fourteen days she will still be a free person then they will march to the DPPs office. ''We are going to march to Haji's office if he will not have arrested Kabura with perjury'' a youth Beverly Nyawira said. Click here for the latest political news     