The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has summoned the interdicted Migori chief finance officer to provide documentation on how tender payments were made. Samuel Omuga is expected to appear this morning to explain how the county paid over Sh2.5 billion to about 20 contractors between 2014 and 2017. He was interdicted on October 4 by the Migori County Public Service Board through county secretary Christopher Rusana. Omuga, however, got stay orders on October 9 at the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu. “As you are aware, this commission is investigating allegations of corruption and irregular payments at the county government of Migori,” John Lolkoloi, EACC deputy director forensic investigations, said in a letter to the county. “To facilitate our investigations, you are hereby invited for further interview and statement recording on Monday, October 15, at 9am at Integrity Centre offices Nairobi. You are further required to carry with yourself fully processed payment vouchers for all the listed payments made from your department,” he said. Read: Migori county officials charged with Sh7.9 million irregular expenses This comes as the EACC deepens investigation on trails of transactions believed to have been used by embattled Migori governor Okoth Obado through proxy companies to siphon billions from the county budget. According to separate documents filed in court earlier, the anti-graft agency is pursuing Obado and his associates who registered about 30 firms, through which billions in high-value ‘fictitious’ contracts were given. EACC investigations show the firms received the money then wired to Obado’s accomplices, top among them Jared Peter Odoyo and Oluoch Kwaga, who in turn wired to Obado’s children in Australia, Hong Kong and China. The chief finance officer is expected to give information and documentation on how over Sh30 million was paid to Kajulu Business-registered in the name of Kwaga’s mother, Penina Auma. Omuga will be tasked to lay documents on how they paid Mbingo Enterprises Ltd and Janto Construction Company Ltd Sh16.2 million and Sh30 million respectively. Ernest Omondi Owino, who EACC has enlisted as Obado’s accomplice, is a director of the two companies. His accounts have since been frozen. Other Obado’s associates are Joram Opala Otieno, Patroba Ochanda Otieno, Beatrice Akinyi Ogutu and Kennedy Odhiambo Akello. Kwaga, Opala and Ochanda are blood brothers, while Akinyi is Kwaga’s wife and a close associate of Obado’s spouse, Hellen Adhiambo. The EACC has asked for documents on how their companies among others were paid colossal amounts of money for high-value contracts in the county. Paper trails of payment of Sh109.3 million to Deltrack ICT Services, and Sh141.6 million to Seletrack Consultants, where Joram Opala is listed as a director, are needed from the chief officer. Read: Migori procurement officer resigns amid corruption probe More: Five Migori staff at large, six freed on bond in corruption case Click here for
the latest political news