The Kenya Wildlife Service yesterday warned researchers against misusing their permits. Acting biodiversity research and planning director Patrick Omondi said some researchers use their permits to bring in interns and volunteers from foreign countries. Omondi said the move has recently landed them in trouble with the Interior ministry. In September, more than 1,000 foreigners were kicked out of the country for lacking legal documents. The crackdown is meant to streamline the process of issuing work permits. It has been prone to manipulation. “We’ll zero in on them. It’s illegal. The few cases we have are being handled,” he said at the KWS headquarters, Nairobi. They hosted the Annual Carnivore Research and Conservation Conference. The summit is discussing threats to carnivores such as lions, leopards, cheetahs, hyenas and wild dogs. Threats include habitat loss, population fragmentation and loss of wild prey.Encroachment on their territory due to increased human activities has also increased conflicts. This has increased killings through poisoning, trapping and shooting. Omondi told researchers to inform the service if they intend to expand their scope. Read: Don’t trap monkeys, it’s our business, says KWS “We don’t want to get into problems with Interior ministry,” he said, adding he is handling two cases — one in Tsavo and another in Mara. “A volunteer in Mara is seeking a refund yet we never registered him.” To conduct research, a person must request an authorisation permit through an online portal. The three-tier process involves the National Commission for Science, Technology and Innovation, Nema and the KWS. KWS acting director general Charles Musyoki said conflicts occur when carnivores encounter humans. KWS has Sh15 billion outstanding compensation fees. “We’ve put in place measures to minimise conflicts through building predator-proof fences, education and awareness programmes and working with partners to implement compensation programmes and build carnivore-proof bomas,” he said in a speech read by director for parks Julius Kimani. Click here for the latest political news  