Kenya’s fiscal deficit is projected to remain unchanged in 2018 if the country does not put measures on expenditure and revenue collection, International Monetary Fund has said. In the Regional Economic Outlook report released in this month, Kenya as a non-resource intensive country, an economy pushed by agricultural exports and commodity imports, will have a mark variation with other sub-Saharan economies in terms of fiscal deficit adjustment. This is despite the government setting to drop the budget deficit to 5.7 percent of GDP in the 2018/19 financial year. “The average fiscal deficit for the region is set to shrink from 4.2 percent of GDP in 2017 to 3.3 percent in 2018. This masks however significant variations across economies, with fiscal balances expected to improve in oil-exporting countries, remain unchanged in non-resource-intensive countries, and deteriorate somewhat in other resource-intensive countries,” part of the report read. The government has also made an improvement to reduce its fiscal deficit to 7.2 per cent in 2017 according to estimates presented by treasury to the parliament in May. In September, the government proposed to slash its Sh3.026 trillion budget for the current financial year by Sh55 billion, cutting down spending on some sectors. The report also warned on further reduction on capital expenditure to deter development and compromise the medium-term growth. According to the report, domestic revenue mobilization will be a major driver in sustaining growth for fiscal adjustment even though it has been difficult to achieve with the countries in the region remaining far short from its potential. Due to this, the revenue gap, estimated at three to five per cent of GDP on average across countries under current medium-term fiscal plans, are not expected to be closed. IMF show that this is underpinned by lack of effective and modern tax policy and administration, such as taxpayer identification numbers, a semi-autonomous revenue authority, the VAT, and taxpayer segmentation. Domestic revenues are predicted to rise by about 2.5 per cent of GDP in oil exporting countries, and only by 0.5 per cent of GDP in other countries. The report also stated that re-adjustment of the fiscal deficit is also threatened by the re-emergence of fuel subsidies. “While most countries did pass lower oil prices through to domestic prices, most countries have not raised prices as much in response to the recent increase in international fuel prices. Indeed, between early 2017 and April 2018, the median pass-through coefficient was zero for oil exporters and 47 per cent for oil importers,” the report stated.