The University of Nairobi has started a reload project in Isiolo county that uses a solar tunnel dryer to preserve surplus produce. The targeted product is traditional meat known as ‘nyiriri’ among the Somali community or ‘koche’ among the Borana. With the help of the dryer, livestock farmers will now be able to dry their produce to make high-value meat products, hence increased value addition and reduced losses. Through this technology, one can preserve meat for up to a year and commercialise it, said UoN food scientist Dr Catherine Kunyanga. The project is being done in partnership with the Ewaso Ng’iro North Development Authority (ENNDA). “Reload means reducing losses and adding value. And this being our pilot programme in the county of Isiolo, we hope and expect that the community, whose main source of livelihood is pastoralism, will embrace it to make more returns,” Kunyanga said. She said the solar tunnel dryer is a more effective way of drying food products than sun drying, since they dry very fast within a short period. On the other hand, in the solar tunnel dryer, unlike other solar dryers, there is no forced convention, whereby you force warm air over the product. All the produce dries at the same time, making it an effective technology. “For maize farmers, it is also a good way of drying their produce since it tends to dry it to the correct moisture content, hence you can store it for long and reduce aflatoxins,” she said. The technology can also be used to dry vegetables, most fruits and herbs. The cost of importing the solar tunnel dryer from Germany is Sh1.5 million, whereas a local fabrication costs about Sh600, 000. “However, it is important to note that no products should be mixed when drying. If you are drying meat today, then let it just be meat. When you are in a cold region, such as Meru, and there is no sunlight, you can connect power to this system and it will still dry your produce. This means that as a farmer, you are able to dry your produce throughout the year,” she said. DOUBLES STOCK Project beneficiary Amina Hassan from the Tawakal Farmers Cooperative Society, which deals with ‘nyiriri’ meat, welcomed the initiave. “We used to dry the meat in the sun before taking it to Eastleigh for sale. We would produce 40 kilos of meat per day and sell one kilo at Sh1,200. But with the use of this panel, we would be able to produce 80 or 90 kilos per day, since it will speed up our work,” he said. With this single dryer, you can dry up to three tonnes of a product in a day. ENNDA MD Omar Sheikh said the project has come at the right time, since pastoralism is the major economic activity for communities living in the region. “There are about 1 million camels in the country and 80 per cent are in the arid and semi arid regions. Hence, many farmers will reap from this project. They will be able to dry meat using this technology without burning trees for charcoal and firewood, hence conserving the environment,” Sheikh said. “We appreciate the partnership with the University of Nairobi, which makes us feel we have done something good for the communities in this region, and hope that this project will be replicated in other ASAL areas, such as Mandera, Garissa, Wajir, Samburu and Marsabit,” he said. He said due to the effects of climate change, the region experiences both flood and drought cycles. So before farmers lose their livestock due to the harsh weather conditions, they can sort them out and dry the meat using this technology. This will promote destocking. “My organisation will support research and extension along this project. During the launching phase, we hope to train livestock officers and agricultural officers about it so the uptake can increase,” Sheikh said. Project beneficiary UoN postgraduate student Grace Werike said she has been researching on the market potential of the nyiriri meat product and realised it is huge. “We were able to train women on how to develop shelf-stable commercial meat so it can enter the formal market chain, that is, hotels and supermarkets,” she said.