NASA leader Raila Odinga’s recent tours in various parts of the country and abroad seem to have irked some leaders allied to Jubilee. Some MPs were yesterday overheard at Parliament buildings castigating Raila for launching Katani Hospital in Machakos. They questioned whether the recent handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta has propelled Raila to a higher status in the country. “I am wondering on whose behalf Raila is launching key projects in the country yet he is the leader of Opposition,” the legislator told his colleague. Are some senior officers at City Hall taking advantage of the ongoing demolition of buildings to make money? Well, a mole has whispered to Corridors that a senior official at the county headquarters has been receiving millions of shillings from owners of buildings which are either on road reserves, riparian land or done without all the approval documents. The mole says that the official has been behind the arrest of workers at the construction site of Avic buildings in Westlands and others on Mombasa Road, Karen and Nairobi West. The official has also ordered the cases against the arrested officers dropped after he pocketed millions of shillings from the owners of the building. A vocal MCA is now planning to bring a motion to compel the county government to demolish all structures on river banks. A first-term lawmaker who was recently embroiled in the recent bribery claims of between Sh10,000 and Sh30,000 to water down the contraband sugar report in Parliament is rumoured to be eying a governor seat. Well, it is still unclear whether the MP will be cleared by the National Assembly Powers and Privileges Committee over the allegations. Could the bribery claims have catapulted the legislator’s political influence at the grassroots? Only time will tell whether the MP will contest for the top seat. Are senior police officers plotting to skip an exit party of a commission which is among top of the most corrupt institutions in yesterday’s released corruption survey? Corridors has learnt that the top cops have planned to keep off the party which is said to cost over Sh900,000 in protest against a bad working relationship with its chair. It is reported that during the two weeks of their sunset days, the commissioners awarded themselves allowances amounting to Sh4.4 million belonging to the taxpayers. Could this be the reason why a top government official declined to grace the occasion forcing the organisers to reschedule? Click here for the latest political news 