Leaders in Mandera want the national government to secure the county against al Shabaab attacks ahead of national exams. Speaking to the press in Mandera town yesterday, Mandera Knut executive secretary Kullow Sheikh asked the government to ensure that all the 229 exam centres and 9,545 candidates are well protected. “Candidates from Mandera should do the exams under a conducive environment devoid of any incidents ,including insecurity,” Kullow said. The exams start on October 31.Lafey MP Abdi Mude asked the government to deploy enough security personnel especially along the porous border with Somalia for the security of candidates and supervisors. “We have seen enough of this al Shabaab menace. It is my hope and prayer that the security apparatus have put in place all mechanisms that will ensure that everything goes on well.  As leaders, we will continue supporting the government as we have done before,” said Mude The county has borne the brunt of al Shabaab militia which has on numerous occasions carried out attacks that have led to lose of lives. It is feared that the group may want to disrupt the national examinations in the county. Kullow called on the government to increase the number of containers which act as examination materials stores to reduce the distance school heads take to collect exams. The Knut executive secretary said the longer the distance, the higher the chances that the exams will arrive late adding that ‘anything can happen in between the examination centers and the containers’. The expansive county also has bad roads which become impassable during the rain season and could also inconvenience examination officials and candidates. The most vulnerable areas such as Omar Jillow, Sheikh Barrow and Fino have been put under under security surveillance. On Monday, the director for quality assurance from the ministry of education Pius Mutesi told the press in Mandera town that the department has put all measures in place to end cases of exam cheating. The North Eastern region of Kenya has been the key war ground between Kenyan securities forces and the Somali based al Shabaab militia which started back in 2011 after the Kibaki government accused the group of interfeing with the tourism industry along the Indian ocean coast.