IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has said it is up to Parliament and presidency to decide when they will hire new commissioners to take up vacant positions at the electoral agency. The polls agency boss said he would be happy if the vacant positions of those who resigned in April are filled so that the new officers can support those already in the commission. "The issue of the IEBC commissioners who resigned is in public domain. As for now, the work of the commissions is ongoing but I would be happy if the new ones come in." The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman spoke on the sidelines of Forum for Chairperson’s of Constitutional Commissions and Independent Offices breakfast meeting in Nairobi. Commissioners to plan the annual conference by the chairpersons of constitutional commissions and independent offices slated for October 10-12 in Meru. "We cannot discuss the issue of Ezra Chiloba (suspected IEBC CEO) because it is an internal issue, which will be handled by the IEBC," the chair said. "I can’t prosecute an employee in the media but we have structures at IEBC which are being followed," Chebukati said. IEBC vice chairperson Connie Maina and two other commissioners Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat left the commission on April 16. The commissioners said that they resigned because they did not have faith in Chebukati. "The issue of replacement is for the other agencies- Parliament and Executive. Parliament has to come with a recruitment panel," Chebukati said. "We hope other commissioners will come in at the IEBC but the agencies involved in the recruitment process will decide who comes in and when." Maina, Mwachanya and Kurgat made an unexpected return to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on August 25. Their move threw everything into a spin after being away for four months. Read: Questions as IEBC commissioners Nkatha, Mwachanya return to office See: [VIDEO] Three IEBC commissioners resign, say Chebukati a bad leader Click here for the latest political news