There are, I believe, two types of people: creative and
bureaucrats. Talking to my Kenyan youth students about creativity and
bureaucracy, I was surprised to discover that some of them thought that
bureaucracy is a good thing and even aspired to become bureaucrats in their
future professional lives. Surely, they did not understand what bureaucracy is
and what it costs to economy and human lives. ‘Cutting bureaucracy only in half
could stimulate the world economy by $1 trillion', according to the WTO
director general[1].
The number of lives that could be saved is endless. The Bible’s ‘Parable of the Talents’ comes to mind. Going
away, a master calls his three servants and gives them his money for
safekeeping. To the first servant, he gives five talents (‘talent’ is a
currency’s name), to the second, two, and to the third, just one. The first man
trades his five talents and makes five more. The second man trades his two
talents and makes two more, and the third man is afraid to lose his talent and
hides it in the ground. When the master comes back, the first servant returns 10
talents, the second, four, and the third man, just one. “Master, I was afraid
to lose it and I hid it in the ground," he explains. "You wicked,
worthless servant!” rages the master and, as the Bible says, "casts the
man into the outer darkness in the place of weeping and gnashing of
teeth."[2] I believe this parable illustrates well the ‘wicked
worthlessness’ of a bureaucrat. The first two men thrive on their
resourcefulness. They create opportunities and multiply their resources. The
third man lacks any creativity. The worthless servant indeed. My students may have confused bureaucracy with management
or order. Bureaucracy is neither. According to writer, futurist and businessman
Alvin Toffler, a bureaucrat is driven by only three things: economic security,
hierarchy of authority, and rules and regulations.[3]
Frightened to lose a job, they avoid any change. Conditioned to conform when
faced by problems, they turn to routine answers. Today the world demands people with totally different
characteristics. New knowledge, technology and social change create challenges
that demand solutions well beyond the routine. Today, creativity stands in
polarity to bureaucracy. Where bureaucrats fear lack of economic security,
creative people are unafraid of competition and risk. Where bureaucrats look
for a status within hierarchy, creative people seek it outside it. Where bureaucrats are subservient to organisation,
creative people are loyal only to their own professionalism and fulfilment. Where bureaucrats feel their roles are predetermined,
hungry for novelty and change, creative people move across roles. Where bureaucrats solve problems with regulations,
creative people solve them with innovations. Where bureaucrats subordinate themselves to a 'team
play', creative people know that teams are transient. While bureaucrats are not
free, creative people are liberated. In the new super-industrial world of rapid changes,
people's adaptive capacity will be highly strained. Creatives, they will
survive and thrive. Bureaucrats, they will fail to adapt and end up in “a place
of weeping and gnashing of teeth”.  Alla Tkachuk is the
founder of a UK creativity education charity MASK, mobileartschoolinkenya.org.
Contact:  alla@
mobileartschoolinkenya.org, @MASKcharity   [1]
https://www.theguardian.com/business/2013/jan/25/cutting-red-tape-boost-global-economy-wto [2] New Testament, Matthew 25:14-30 [3] Alvin Toffler, Future Shock, 1970