Administrative law is a branch of law that deals with decisions from government agencies either in adjudication or rendering of decisions that affect rights of individuals or government. Those aggrieved by such decisions have recourse to challenge the decision through an established mechanism—a tribunal. Tribunals are quasi-judicial bodies that adjudicate over administrative decisions that affect rights of parties. There are over 60 tribunals created by various Acts of Parliament that are actively engaged in dispute resolution. They are variously known as committees, boards or tribunals. Tribunals have unique characteristics—speedy, affordable, efficient and specialised dispensation of justice. The composition of each tribunal is done in a manner that brings sectoral expertise into justice administration. For instance, in the area of intellectual property rights, a decision by the Kenya Industrial Property Institute to grant or deny a patent may be challenged at the Industrial Property Tribunal. For the tribunal to competently adjudicate over such a claim, it must have within its membership experts in intellectual property law. That specialisation is critical in running of tribunals in Kenya. Article 1(3) (c) of the Constitution recognises the Judiciary and independent tribunals as State organs to which sovereign power is delegated by the people of Kenya. Pursuant to Article 159 (1), judicial authority vests in and is to be exercised by the courts and tribunals established by or under the Constitution, while Article 169 (1) defines subordinate courts under the judiciary to include local tribunals as may be established by an Act of Parliament. Unlike under the previous constitutional dispensation where tribunals were part and parcel of the Executive, under the current constitutional framework, tribunals are part of the Judiciary. In compliance with this constitutional imperative, the National Treasury in a circular dated June 14, 2014, transferred over 10 tribunals to the Judiciary out of the 60. Currently, the National Treasury has transited 20 tribunals to the Judiciary. The tribunals include Rent Restriction Tribunal, the Cooperative Tribunal, Business Premises tribunal the Political Parties Disputes tribunal, Sports Tribunal, Transport Licensing Appeals Board, Education Tribunal, Legal Education Appeals Tribunal, State Corporations Tribunal, Micro and Small Enterprises Tribunal, Standards Tribunal, Industrial Property Tribunal, Competent Authority, HIV and AIDS Tribunal, Energy Tribunal, Competition Tribunal among others. Other tribunals are key to several government projects; the National Environment Tribunal dealing with Environmental issues, the Public Private Partnership Petition Committee dealing with public private partnerships. The various tribunals are mired in confusion with regard to their legislative framework. They exist independent of each other, appointed and constituted differently, operating on different procedural rules and with different degrees of accountability. This has clouded the issues of independence and accountability. To deal with this issue, the former Attorney General established a task force led by the Kenya Law Reform Commission, which came up with a Draft Tribunals Bill. One of the key provisions of the Bill is to harmonise the issue of appointments, qualification of members and terms of service. It is hoped that a harmonised legislation will bring some order and enhance administration of justice in tribunals. These administrative tribunals settle disputes quickly, they are cheaper and way more efficient than ordinary courts. They possess greater technical knowledge in fields such as medicine, taxation, business, industry, health, engineering, environmental and others, hence, effectively dealing with technical and socioeconomic problems arising out of administrative action. Further, it must be pointed out that tribunals are fairly informal and are not too beholden with technicalities of form and rules. The Judiciary, in a bid to harmonise all tribunal operations, established a secretariat to coordinate tribunal activities. Members of the public may reach the secretariat through 0792429713 or email inquires to tribunals@court.go.ke. Acting Registrar of Tribunals at the Judiciary ann.asugah@court.go.ke