CNN’s Richard Quest has shared his experience running with Eliud Kipchoge, who shattered the world record in Berlin on September 16. Quest arrived in Kenya on Monday to cover a series of business stories, and in his downtime chose to go jogging with Kipchoge. Speaking to Kiss FM’s Adelle and Shaffie yesterday, he recounted the experience. "This man redefines being cool. He really does. I mean here is me huffing and puffing like a steam engine worthy of a national railway engine, and he is just running and he has very soft words — relax, ease up. "What are you talking about? We are running at 11 miles per hour. He is an amazing man and what he talks about is motivation plus dedication, equalling success." Quest said he learnt a lot from the champion. "I tried to drink from the well yesterday, absolutely. I stood next to him and I said, how do I get to that point where my mind and body... How do I do it? It’s fine to watch you do it," he said. "He says a combination of practice, a combination of believing. He is way too modest and I think mentally as well, he wouldn’t discuss with me anything initiation as well, and I tried to push him all this business about pushing through pain, what might happen, wouldn’t say a word. He could not." Discussing his itinerary in Kenya, Quest said: "I am here for a variety of reasons. We are doing two programmes. We are doing Quest Means Business, live from Nairobi on Thursday and Friday night. We are doing The Express at seven o’clock in the evening and then Quest Means Business at 10 o'clock. And if you can tweet me @RichardQuest, one good reason why you can come and watch, I will choose one or two to come and watch the show live. "And we’re also doing World of Wonder, because we go to interesting places to fascinating people and so we are filming it here and your co-host, Shaffie, is one of the fascinating people," Richard said. His advice to those aspiring to pull themselves in the media is: "If your only goal is to get as many likes on Instagram and to be on television or radio, you will turn up like an old pot. Vacuous, noisy and with no content. You have to have substance, you have to know what you are doing. You have to have a reason for what you are doing. If he could go back and talk to his 18-year-old self, what would he say? "Just keep doing what you’re doing. You’re going to make mistakes. They’re going to be bad. You’re going to have to learn from them. But providing you try. Failure will always happen." Quest will be part of the 234 passengers set to fly in the Kenya Airways direct flight from Nairobi to New York on October 28, 2018.