Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said the ongoing clean-up exercise in the prisons department will go on regardless of the resistance it faces from some corrupt officers. Speaking in Kilifi on Wednesday, the CS said the reforms have started bearing results since their introduction last year. “We are through in the first quarter of the financial year, we don’t have one shilling in pending bills,” Matiang’i said, attributing this to a ban on cash transactions in all correctional facilities. Matiang’i said the cleanup is painful but it has to be done anyway and called on those put in charge of public resources to diligently guard against their loss. The CS assured that the government will sort out the issue of water shortage in prisons as resources for drilling boreholes were at the Interior Ministry’s disposal. He said this will be done within the next two financial years as he will not need to seek for funds from Treasury. “The resources that we are allocated are enough, let us avoid wastage and be disciplined and do the things that we are supposed to do.” The Interior ministry embarked on reforming the prisons department this year following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive to adopt a comprehensive approach to improve the security sector. The reforms which include paying close attention to the correctional services department saw Matiang’i flag off 100 prison vehicles at Nairobi West Prisons on September 28 meant to ease transport in the National Prisons service. Matiang’i said the ministries of Interior and public service will in the course of November outline plans to improve food security and efficiency in prisons. The CS warned contractors working of projects under the ministry to speed up their work saying no contract will be varied. He said all contracts must be completed by May next year. “It will not happen under my watch because we have lost resources because of this nonsense,” Matiag’i said. The CS was accompanied by Public Service CS Margaret Kobia and other officials from the two ministries. Read; No need to jail petty offenders, Maraga says, promises reforms Click here for the latest political news  