First Lady Melania Trump has left the US for her first solo trip to Africa. She is expected to tour Kenya, Ghana, Malawi and Egypt. "She is interested in Africa because she has never been there before, and knows that each country will have its own unique history and culture," her communications director Stephanie Grisham said. Melania's itinerary has not been shared for security reasons. There is speculation that she will address the USAID programme on health in Ghana, in Malawi she will address education as a key to combating poverty and in Kenya early childhood education. FLOTUS' last stop in Egypt will highlight issues on tourism, culture preservation, as well as issues concerning women and religious minorities. Her predecessors Michele Obama, Hillary Clinton and Laura Bush have had their footprints in Africa. Also read: Melania Trump to visit Kenya next month The 48-year-old fashion model was born in Slovenian and became a US citizen through naturalisation. Melania speaks five languages. In May, she founded 'Be best' campaign that promotes awareness drugs and cyberbullying. US President Donald Trump ruffled feathers when he referred to African countries as s*** holes. He further aggravated the situation when he said on Twitter white farmers are being killed in South Africa and their farms seized. The impolite comments made by her husband leaves her with some fence-mending to do. Kate Andersen Brower, author of "First Women: The Grace and Power of America's Modern First Ladies said this would help in combating the repeated comments about the continent by her husband. This can be supported by the positive engagements evident when POTUS hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya and President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi of Egypt. An active campaigner of children's welfare, Melania is expected to visit hospitals and schools. "This will be my first time travelling to Africa and I'm excited to educate myself on the issues facing children throughout the continent, while also learning about its rich culture and history," said the First Lady. " She has, however, received a backlash for championing children needs and rights while mothers and children are separated in her backyard. Melania said her visit will reinforce the deep and long-standing partnerships between the United States and African countries. Click here for the latest political news