A group of residents in Bungale, Magarini subcounty, burnt down a house and demolished a church belonging to a pastor associated with a controversial Malindi televangelist alleged to be preaching radical teachings. The church opposes formal education and seeking medical care. The residents, including Nyumba Kumi leaders and peace ambassadors, first went to the church and destroyed everything. Later, they ambushed Pastor Titus Katana of Good News International Ministries’ house located 50 meters from the demolished church at Majengo ya Wakala area and burnt it. Nothing was saved from the destruction. They also threatened to kill the pastor for promoting radical teachings to the locals and told him to stay away from the area or face serious consequences. Read: Mbeere church elder’s motorcycle burnt over illicit affair Katana’s church is linked to controversial Malindi televangelist Paul Makenzi of Good News International Ministries church which has been criticised. The pastor and his expectant wife have sought refuge at a relative’s house in Malindi. Simon Lokorio, the Magarini deputy county commissione, confirmed the demolition and arson on the phone. He said the locals took the action following claims the pastor is indoctrinating locals with false Christian teachings which promote extremism among followers. “We are following up on the matter to bring the culprits to book. The pastor should stay away from the area until the situation calms down,” Lokorio said. Earlier, he said residents demonstrated against the pastor and demanded his church be closed, but the church minister ignored their calls. Read:Ten houses, church torched by arsonists in Teso, Busia County Residents said the pastor has been preaching against education and medical care, making his followers believe it is evil. Katana, his wife and Makenzi held a press conference in Malindi. Katana said he incurred Sh2.5 million losses. He accused the chief, his assistant, village elders and Nyumba Kumi elders of inciting residents. The chief was unavailable for comment. Click here for the latest political news  