Migori police have launched investigations into the mysterious death of a Fourth Year student at Rongo University. Kelvin Ngui was a Tourism and Hospitality undergraduate student. He disappeared from the institution on September 9. His decomposing body was found near River Kuja — two kilometres from the main campus in Kitere, Rongo subcounty, Migori county. Rongo police boss Peter Kirui yesterday said the body was found near the river but added that Ngui did not drown. He said a postmortem would be carried out at Rosewood Hospital mortuary and a report submitted to help them in the probe. “We are getting statements over the death,” Kirui said. On Wednesday, vice chancellor Samuel Gudu said the death had “shocked the institution, which has yet to come to terms with the death of Sharon Otieno”. “There was a bridge fairly close to where the student died. So we may not understand the circumstances under which he could not cross the river when the bridge was so close,” he said. In September, the university came into the limelight after Sharon’s body was recovered a day after she and a journalist were kidnapped from Rongo town. Sharon was a Medical Information Management student. Her body was found dumped in a thicket near Oyugis, Homa Bay county. She is to be buried today. Sharon was pregnant with Migori governor Okoth Obado’s child. Obado and his two aides — Caspal Obiero and Michael Oyamo — have been charged with her murder. They pleaded not guilty and were remanded, pending a ruling on their bail applications. Gudu cautioned students to be wary of wrong company. “We ask students to be careful in their relationships and the company they keep, not only in the institution but everywhere,” he said. “We’ll continue to understand one another and take seriously the security of our students and staff.” The professor said they have been keen on the welfare of students staying in the institution and those living outside. A month ago, Rongo MP Paul Abuor and Gudu presided over the launch of a police post in the university to boost security. The building used by the police was a CDF project. The CDF team and the national government had also rolled out a street-lighting project around the institution, Abuor said.