Such
a person has acquired public prominence and even fame for primarily immersing
thyself into issues affecting the common. Yet the mention of the term’ public intellectual’
activates a perception of academic halls, huge volumes of textbooks/journals
end even Marxist theories and Fanon teachings. It is, however, getting clearer
by the day, that any platform, any genre or any subject can thrust an individual
into the realm of public intellectualism. Today, visual artists are using
images and portraits to push for change. Simply, public intellectuals are
active in every human field. One such area is in music and performing arts. Joseph
Kamaru did not follow up on his education beyond class seven. At the age of 17,
in 1956, Kamaru made up his mind to take a risk and face up with urban life in
Nairobi. It is around the same the time he decided to spend his entire life
entertaining the world. In 1966, Kamaru released the controversial Ndari ya Mwarimu. Whereas millions of
listeners for this song have probably viewed it from the entertainment angle,
the lyrics display an attacking attitude towards sexual harassment of female
students by their teachers. Kamaru was talking about rape in 1965, through a
song and in Africa. It is around this millennium that the issue of rape in
schools is taking substantive airtime in public debates. Having directed his guns
on moral values, he later cautioned young men against erratic and negative
behaviour in his track Ndutige Kuhenia
Igoti. Clearly, here was a rather young man, uneducated but committed to enlighten
his audience on productive value systems.  Additionally, Kamaru confirmed beyond doubt
that we were a critical observer. His words simply mirrored the realities of
life as led by folks during his time. This connection with Kenyans from all
walks of life is perhaps the reason why Kamaru performed to a packed Carnivore Restaurant
more than 20 years ago. His music transcended the boundaries of Mt Kenya region
and found its way into the lips and hearts of non-Kikuyu speakers. Very many factors affirm
Kamaru as a Kenyan legend. One, he was hugely talented. This fact is the only
way to justify how Kamaru managed to compose over 2,000 songs infusing
contemporary themes and observing all known rules of poetry. In Muhiki wa Mikosi, Kamaru brought out an
entertaining song that cautioned people on the effects of reckless decisions. The track may not go
down well with toxic feminists but Kamaru did have a point in reminding people
to keep away from substance abuse in the process of making critical decisions.
Kamaru had a multi-dimensional agenda in all of his pieces. He could excite
revellers and lovers of the dancefloor, while at the same time giving food for
thought to cultural analysts and change agents. Kamaru obviously registered
his decisional gaps over his music career. While he did point out administration
ills over the course of work, he at times engaged political leaders in manners
that became quite unpopular with his fans. He was a personal friend to all of
Kenyan Presidents in his time. Many left-wingers often wondered why he would
sing against social ills only to coalesce with the leaders of the day. His praise for Daniel
Moi after their Japan tour in the early 1990s is a visible item in this part of
his story. His supporters, however, say as a hero, Kamaru had his fundamental
flaws of judgement. In any case, they opine, Kamaru had given much more to the
world than received from it. Whichever perspective one adopts, the world
enjoyed the services of a talented and hardworking genius. As we celebrate his
life, we have to sustain the thirst for a broad public intellectual space that
supports individuals from all walks of life.  