Kenya Cup runners up Kabras have signed three players from South Africa ahead of the 2018-2019 season. The move will be to boost the Kakamega-based side’s chances of reclaiming the Kenya Cup from rivals KCB. This will be the first time the South African players will be playing in the top tier of Kenyan rugby. The players signed include centre Enzo Foutie, who used to ply this trade for the Boland Under-21 side in South Africa and number eight Johannes Claude, who played in the Varsity Cup for Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) as well as top South African franchise Blue Bulls, and provincial outfit Boland Cavaliers. Logan Basson is the third player to have signed for the sugar millers. The utility back play across the back-line from fly-half to winger and fullback. He played Currie Cup rugby for Border Bulldogs and Griquas. Speaking yesterday, the newly appointed head coach Henley Du Plessis, said the South African trio have settled in well and adjusted to the new environment in Kakamega. “The boys arrived a fortnight ago and have settled in well. They are getting acquainted to the new system and structure while at the same time trying to gel with their team-mate,” added Du Plessis. Du Plessis, who was appointed in August on a three-year contract, said Kabras have had an extensive pre-season ahead of the start of the league campaign and intensified preparation for the start of the season this week by having a training camp, where the players report at 6am. “The players are relishing the start of the season,” he added. Du Plesiss was noncommittal on his side’s chance of winning the league. “Our first five games of the season will be without five players who are way with the Simbas in the repechage. So it’s premature to start talking about the title. However, I will be able to asses that in the new year,” observed Du plessis The five on national duty include forwards Hillary Mwanjilwa, George Nyambua , Andrew Chogo, Coleman Were and Joseph Odero. The tactician said the side will play two build-up matches next month against Oilers and a yet to be identified team on November 3 and 10 respectively at Kakamega show ground. Kabras open their campaign against Mean Machine with subsequent fixtures against Blak Blad, Nakuru RFC, Strathmore Leos and Impala before the Christmas and New year break.