A Recce Squad officer is being detained by police over the murder of businesswoman Monica Kimani. Jennings Odhiambo Orlando was arrested on Thursday evening by homicide detectives. He was taken to Muthaiga police station for questioning. Investigators have reportedly established that Orlando was together with suspect Joseph 'Jowie' Irungu at the home of Monica in Kilimani. "We want to know if he actually went into the Monica's house on that fateful day," an investigator told the Star on Friday. Preliminary details obtained by police revealed that Irungu and the officer had known each other for three months. Monica was found with her hands and legs tied, mouth taped and throat slit. Her body was deposited in a bathtub at her apartment in Kilimani, Nairobi. Detectives have also searched Orlando’s house at Recce Headquarters in Ruiru for clues. Orlando is said to be attached to the US Embassy in Nairobi. Related: I’m in pain, please let me out on bail, Jowie pleads in affidavit Kiambu Law Courts Orlando was taken to Kiambu law courts on Friday morning under tight security and his face covered. “We were here when a man was brought with his face covered and under tight security. We were not able to see his face neither [do we] know of his whereabouts,” a journalist at the court told the Star. The man, assumed to be Orlando, was taken to the registrar’s office and left almost immediately with the officers under tight security. “We were then misled that it was Brian Kassaine, one of the suspects in the case, but now we have our doubts,” the journalist added. Kassaine was released on bail as police continued investigations. The detectives are said to have been given 14 more days to hold Orlando as investigations continue. Other suspects in custody over the murder of Monica are Citizen TV journalist Jacque Maribe and Irungu. They are accused of murdering Monica at an apartment along Dennis Pritt Road. The two pleaded not guilty to the charge and their bail hearing set for next Wednesday. They had applied for bail but Justice Jessie Lessit said the application will be heard by a different court. The defence lawyers argued that the two have been in police custody for 15 days, hence, it would be improper to detain them further. Katwa Kigen, for Maribe, had asked the court to compel the prosecution to serve them with investigation file exhibits and statements from witnesses. But the prosecution lawyers, saying they are not opposed to the bid for bail, sought two weeks to conclude their investigations. Read: Maribe throws fiance Jowie under bus as she recants statement, gives new account More: Jacque Maribe, Jowie plead not guilty to Monica Kimani murder Click here for the latest political news