Candidates in conflict-prone areas could be transferred to new schools to take their national examinations, Education CS Amina Mohamed yesterday said. Ministry statistics reveal 2,417 candidates in 65 schools have so far been identified as likely to be transferred after their schools were affected by conflict and displacement. The areas include Narok county that was affected bt inter-communal conflict, Kibra subcounty in Nairobi where structures on a road reserve were demolished and Nakuru county following inter-communal conflict in Molo and Njoro subcounties. The statistics put Narok South subcounty as the most affected with 27 and 33 schools (primary and secondary) and 1,285 candidates affected. Read; No phones, school visits during KCSE and KCPE, teachers warned Narok North follows with 15 schools and 434 candidates affected by the conflict. In Molo and Njoro subcounties in Nakuru, 17 schools were affected by the clashes. In Kibra subcounty, structures were demolished on the basis that they were constructed on road and rail reserves. A total of 15 schools with a total of 258 candidates were affected by the demolitions. Mohamed yesterday said the ministry has mapped 25 low-cost boarding primary schools in Narok county where candidates will be accommodated to sit for examinations in the event that the conflict recurs and escalates. “Relative calm has returned to the area and schools have since re-opened. As at yesterday morning, the rate of absenteeism in the said areas had reduced with only 110 students yet to resume, a team of officers from the Ministry are in the area to facilitate 100% resumption,” Mohamed said. She further said the ministry is working with the interior ministry to ensure the candidates will be secure in the regions affected. “There are ongoing consultations with the Ministry of Interior for enhanced security to ensure that normalcy returns to the affected areas,” she said. Mohamed said the government is also engaging Knut to avert a strike set to kick off later this month. Click here for the latest political news