President Uhuru Kenyatta wants the super rich to be forced to disclose their sources of wealth so they can be taxed appropriately. “High net worth individuals with lifestyles that are not reflective of the taxes that they pay should be compelled to demonstrate their sources of wealth,” the President said. Speaking during the Taxpayer’s Day ceremony yesterday, the President said targeting the super rich would widen KRA’s tax net by widening the current tax base. He said despite an impressive GDP growth over the years, the country’s tax base was significantly low, with growth pegged on a few citizens who end up bearing the brunt of the tax burden. “As a consequence, we have in the recent past taken steps to widen the tax base and seek the implementation of more broad based taxes as a means of bringing more Kenyans into the tax net,” Uhuru said. In the initial budget, Treasury CS Henry Rotich had proposed a 35 per cent top tax rate for Kenyans earning Sh750,000 and above per month. He however later reversed the tax on high income earners after collecting views from the public. CS Rotich said Treasury had initiated tax reforms, both legal and administrative, to increase the country’s tax base and compliance. “We have completed an overhaul of the Income Tax Act and prepared a new Income Tax Bill 2018,” he said. Rotich added that the bill was currently undergoing legal drafting by the Attorney General before submission to the cabinet for approval. “We shall submit the same to the National Assembly for consideration,” he said President Kenyatta however said that although efforts were being made in improving the current tax regime, these reforms were still far from enough to sustain Kenya’s national aspirations. “The law must reflect the seriousness of tax collection and the consequences of default. There should be no space for tax evaders in Kenya,” he said. “There should be no room for tax evaders to thrive.” The President also urged KRA to go after and bring to book traders operating fake electronic tax registers and pocketing the VAT. “Additionally, criminal cartels smuggling in imported taxable goods through our ports ought to be easily detected and contained,” he said. He also advocated for the use of digital mapping by the taxman to fish out landowners who have not been paying tax to increase revenue collection.