London Marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge, Timothy Cheruiyot and Emmanuel Korir are among 10 nominees for 2018 IAAF Male Athlete of the Year. IAAF said the nominations marks the opening of the voting process for the 2018 World Athletes of the Year ahead of the IAAF Athletics Awards 2018 in Monaco on December 4. The 10 nominees were selected by an international panel of athletics experts, comprising representatives from all six continental areas of the IAAF. A three-way voting process will determine the finalists. The IAAF Council and the IAAF Family will cast their votes by email, while fans can vote online via the IAAF's social media platforms. Individual graphics for each nominee will be posted on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram this week; a 'like' on Facebook and Instagram or a retweet on Twitter will count as one vote. The IAAF Council’s vote will count for 50 per cent of the result, while the IAAF Family’s votes and the public votes will each count for 25 per cent of the final result. Voting for the Male World Athlete of the Year closes on November 13. At the conclusion of the voting process, five men and five women finalists will be announced by the IAAF. The male and female World Athletes of the Year will be announced live on stage at the IAAF Athletics Awards 2018. The nominees for 2018 Male World Athlete of the Year are: Eliud Kipchoge (Kenya) Kipchoge is the London Marathon champion with the biggest improvement on a men’s marathon world record since 1967. In September, Kipchoge’s epic gallop gripped the imagination of an entire nation. In every village and town, big and small, crowds assembled in expectation. He had tried and came short twice before. This time he was not to be denied. His spindly but sturdy legs carried the hopes of all his 40 million fans. The loose fitting, sweat drenched white T-Shirt hang loosely over his 5-foot 6 rugged frame, barely doing justice to his solid 57 kilos. Details: Kipchoge rules the world Timothy Cheruiyot (Kenya) Cheruiyot has led in both 1500m and one mile, with nine out of 11 wins across those distances. He is a Diamond League champion and got a Silver at the Commonwealth Games and African Championships. In July, Cheruiyot won the men’s 1500m run and  set a new record of 3.28.41 to take home the full 8 points beating his own record of 3.31.22. The 22-year-old lad has won numerous awards which include the Shanghai Diamond League 1500m, Bowerman Mile at the Eugene Diamond League, 1500m race at the Rome Diamond League series in 3:31.22. Read: Uhuru praises Chepkoech, Timothy Cheruiyot after star show in Monaco Emmanuel Korir (Kenya) Korir  has been the world’s fastest at 800m since 2012. He has won Diamond League champion, Continental Cup winner and African Championships silver. He was the World number six at 400m. Read: The next Rudisha?: US-based Kenyan runs personal best and the fastest time this year Christian Coleman (USA) Coleman has held the World indoor record and world indoor champion at 60m. He has also won the World lead and Diamond League champion at 100m Armand Duplantis (SWE) European champion at pole vault with a world-leading height. World under-20 champion and Eight world under-20 records or bests, indoors and out Noah Lyles (USA) World lead and unbeaten in his five races at 200m, including at the Diamond League final. he has been a Continental Cup winner at 100m and 4x100m. He has led the World at 150m straight Luvo Manyonga (RSA) Diamond League and Commonwealth Games champion at long jump and Silvers at World Indoor and African Championship Kevin Mayer (FRA) World Indoor champion at heptathlon, held a world record at decathlon, when he scored exactly the same number of points on each of the two days Abderrahman Samba (QAT) World lead and unbeaten in nine finals at 400m hurdles, setting the world’s quickest time since 1992. Asian Games champion at 400m hurdles and 4x400m relay Saba is also a Continental Cup winner and an Asian Indoor champion at 4x400m relay. Tomas Walsh (NZL) World lead with the world’s longest shot put since 2003 and a World Indoor, Commonwealth Games and Diamond League champion. Click here for the latest political news