KCB winger Jacob Ojee has been left out of the 30-man Kenya Simbas squad for the World Cup repechage qualifies slated for Marseille, France next month. Ojee, who has been in the team for the last three years missed out in what assistant coach Dominique Habimana referred to as a tactical decision by the technical bench. “We have assessed all the wingers in the team in the past one month and half. We looked at the performance in training, strengths and weaknesses and unfortunately he missed,” said Habimana. Fullback William Reeves of Quins made the cut for the squad following spectacular display for Quins in the 20-15 loss to Impala in the Floodlit tournament last week Kenya Sevens stalwarts Collins Injera, Andrew Amonde, Sammy Oliech and Nelson Oyoo are also included for the winner take it all event. Injera, Amonde, Davis Chenge skipper Wilson K’Opondo and Oliver Mangeni are the survivors from the last qualifiers held in Madagascar four years ago, where the Simbas narrowly missed out on qualification to the event that was held in the United Kingdom. K’Opondo’s return is timely after missing matches in the Africa Gold Cup cum Rugby World Cup qualifiers. The team is expected to depart next Wednesday for Bucharest, where they face Romania ‘A’ in their only build-up match. The build-up matches against British Army, Loftus 2000 and Namibia slated for this month were called off due to financial hitches on the foreign sides. The Simbas play Canada on November 11 then face Hong Kong six days later and Germany on November 23. Habimana said they are well prepared and ready for battle. “The boys have trained hard and are ready for battle. Squad: Forwards: Patrick Ouko (Homeboyz), Moses Amusala (KCB), Joseph Odero(Kabra), Hillary Mwanjilwa (Kabras), Ephraim Oduor(Kabras), Colman Were (Kabras), Philip Ikambili(Homeboyz), Oliver Mangeni (KCB), Wilson Kopondo (Harlequins), Malcolm Onsando (Harlequins), Simon Muniafu(Impala), Andrew Amonde (KCB), George Nyambua ( Kabras), Dalmus Chituyi (Homeboyz), Elkeans Musonye (Strathmore), Joshua Chisanga (Homeboyz), Davis Chenge (KCB) and Martin Owilah (KCB); Backs: Samson Onsomu (Impala), Mohammed Omollo (Homeboyz), Sammy Oliech (Impala), Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Leo Seje Owade(Impala), Peter Kilonzo (KCB), Collins Injera (Mwamba), Nelson Oyoo( Nakuru), Felix Ayange (Kabras), William Ambaka(Harlequins), Tony Onyango(Homeboyz) and William Reeve (Harlequins); Officials: Ian Snook (head coach), Murray Roulston (coach), Wangila Simiyu (manager), Christopher Makachia (physiotherapist), Charles Ngovi (assistant coach), Dominique Habimana (assistant coach), James Ondiege (doctor) and Edwin Boit (team analyst).