The location of estates along flight paths has delayed the urban and housing regeneration programme. Lands and Housing executive Charles Kerich yesterday said four of the seven estates in the programme are on the flight paths of Moi Airbase and Wilson Airport. The estates are Ngara, Pangani, Jevanjee and Bachelors. The county wants to construct 30-storey buildings to create affordable housing. Governor Mike Sonko on Monday said they might be forced to reduce the height to 14 storeys on flight paths. “We are asking the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority to meet with the county and the ministries of Defence and Transport for a clear mapping out of flight paths,” Sonko said. Kerich said City Hall was still engaging residents before the project starts. He said most residents wanted assurances that they will get houses before they are moved. “The developer is ready but we are yet to complete formalities with residents. We don’t want to invoke the tenant-landlord relationship and serve them with notices to leave,” Kerich said. “We would rather try to convince them to leave willingly.” Groundbreaking was scheduled for May but was postponed because logistics had not been completed. Phase One of the Sh300 billion project will have 10,000-12,000 units. Kerich said problems include resistance from tenants who occupy old houses. In August, residents of Pangani attempted to block City Hall from increasing rent to Sh10,000. They demanded the houses be renovated before the hike. They also claimed there was no tenant purchase agreement. Kerich said some tenants had made “impossible demands”. “Some want the developer to build the new houses while they continue living in the old houses,” he said. Kerich said the projects will include small affordable units and make more land available for building more houses. At least 30 apartment blocks can be built on one acre. City Hall wants to relocate tenants and pay their rent until the new houses are complete. SPECIAL PLANNING AREA The seven old city estates targeted in this project include Ngong Road Inspectorate Staff Quarters, Pangani, Old and New Ngara, Jeevanjee-Bachelors, Uhuru Road and Suna Road. Fort Jesus estate in Old Ngara will have 120 three-bedroom units, 480 two-bedroom flats and 240 one-bedroom apartments. Ngong Road estate will have 360 three-bedroom units, 1,440 two-bedroom units and 720 one-bedroom units. The project was to begin in July 2016 but was delayed by tenants’ resistance. Most said it was a ploy to replace them with new occupants. The county master plan also calls for upgrading informal settelments, including Mukuru Kwa Njenga and Mji wa Huruma. Mukuru was declared a special planning area. “This means roads within the slums don’t have to be the standard nine metres wide but wide enough to let in cars, firefighters and ambulances,” Kerich said.