Cabinet Secretaries led the collection of test papers as KCPE kicked off on Tuesday. The lot was deployed in various counties to witness the opening of KCPE papers. Education CS Amina Mohammed was in Kiambu to oversee the opening of containers where the papers were stored.  Education CS Amina Mohamed (R) oversees KCPE collection in Kiambu on Tuesday, October 30, 2018. /COURTESY Her Labour counterpart Ukur Yatani was in Bomet for the same while Environment's Keriako Tobiko was in Athi River. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa witnessed the kicking of the exams in Nyandarua county. Amina said she was confident the exams will be administered well considering that no hitches had been reported. "We started off with a word of prayer for our nation and children, sending the very best wishes to all our candidates," the CS said.  KNEC chairman George Magoha interacts with Star of the Sea primary school candidates during the start of KCPE in Mombasa on Tuesday, October 30, 2018. /ANDREW KASUKU Amina further warned perpetrators of exam cheating that they will be fined Sh2 million or jailed 10 years if caught. The Education CS said there are five helicopters on standby, just in case of an emergency. This year's national exam is the first to be conducted under the watch of Amina as Education CS. The ministry introduced new measures to contain leakage at the various points of the examination process.  Education PS Belio Kipsang' during the start of KCPE in Kakamega on Tuesday, October 30, 2018. /COURTESY Some of the tough measures is that centre managers cannot transport examination materials unless accompanied by armed security. A total of 1.06 million candidates are writing the test. The first day will see candidates write Mathematics, English, and English composition tests. Read: No leakages, all set for KCPE examination, says CS Amina Also read: One million candidates start KCPE under tight security Wamalwa said he was confident with the preparations put in place by the Kenya National Examinations Council (Knec). "The exams shall be administered effectively. I wish all the candidates success," Wamalwa said. Also read: Busia lists 316 more girls than boys for KCPE  Labour CS Ukur Yatani during the start of KCPE in Bomet on Tuesday, October 30, 2018. /COURTESY Click here for the latest political news