President Uhuru Kenyatta has admitted that his government has failed to address the needs of small-scale traders. He said it is a shame that his administration has always opened doors for "big investors" and turned its back on SME's despite their immense contribution to the economy. "I must agree that it is a shame. You are the people who consume 75 per cent of our workforce," he said. He spoke on Tuesday at Strathmore University during the 2018 SME conference. Uhuru directed Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter to review the high rates of electricity that have adversely affected businesspeople. On importation of fish from China, Uhuru directed that it be controlled to avoid strangling the local market. The Head of State also asked Nairobi governor Mike Sonko to urgently address the challenges traders face. He cited leaking sewers and lack of toilets as some of the problems. "Sonko how long does it take for you to fix a leaking sewer, some things we just need to fold our sleeves and get down on the ground and see them work," agitated Uhuru said. The President said he had a written speech but he opted not to read it in order to address the "real issues" facing the traders. He pledged to hold another forum with them to address their grievances. "I had planned to come and read a speech, but I'm ashamed that as a government we have neglected you. We have not done justice to you by addressing your needs," Uhuru told the cheering traders. Uhuru said entrepreneurs play a key role in achieving the Big Four agenda. He said the government will support them. While folding his speech he said, "We must be honest with ourselves, this meeting cannot just end here, we have heard and as a government in partnership with county must sit and provide solutions on how and what way to help you because we owe it to you". Read; Fish from China here to stay as Kenya's catch dwindles Also read: Governor Mandago busts lorry offloading rotten fish from China Click here for the latest political news