When a cow dies in the household of the famished, constipation is certain. Shy children will be grinning like a cat hogging cream. Fatigued intestines will riot. The boys, even the ones who do not enjoy errands, will deliver messages fast, lest the meat disappears when they are away. They know elders reward the good boys. Girls will sing to the river and return fast. Their unusual speed has something to do with the feast. Mothers, even the ones who rarely clean their cooking areas, will be aglow with glee. Polygamous households will have impromptu visitors. Word on the slaughter of a dead cow spreads faster than other news among famished households. The villagers have been watching the cow for some time. They were asking when it would be slaughtered. Men will be milling around the slaughter area. Such an occasion is a rare situation that calls for vigilance. Village layabouts, who have been assigned slaughter duties, could loot the meat. All parts of the cow, including intestines, must be accounted for. Offals for soup, with pili pili, warm the stomach. The host household, in particular, and the village generally, will be teeming with rare shine. You may confine the auditing of the meat to a site, but you cannot stop the aroma wafting across the ridge. Dogs are excited. Someone has to contain the canines 50 metres away from the scene of slaughter. On this day, even hyenas are happy. They have rare access to animal waste. They will claw them out, no matter how deep they are buried. Nightrunners have a field day, scaring villagers dashing out in the night for long calls. There were no pit latrines when this metaphor was young. The nearest bush, behind the home, was good enough for hiding. Hyenas could also be waiting. Flies like foul smell when famished villagers belch. Yes, a cow had to die for villagers to eat their rare fill. Slaughtering a healthy cow was rare unless there was a community celebration. This old metaphor is haunting Africa. A cow was slaughtered in famished Kenya in 1963, when wazungu (White people) left. It was the launchpad of plunder by Africans from Africans. Power wolves were assigned to guard the meat stores. Another cow was slaughtered in 2010, when more power wolves were let loose upon sheep in the counties. Not everyone is constipated from excess overeating, but across the land the overfed are vomiting on our shoes. Those who suffer moral malnutrition are puking on us. Those who suffer malnourished consciences are laughing at victims of their greed. The land is teeming with an officious minority of conspicuous consumers and masses of desperadoes. A land that has the potential to take care of everyone's needs has been captured by the belching class. In struggling economies made up largely of famished households, the power elite is misbehaving. Their conspicuous consumption drains national budgets. They are a shameless power elite of an officious robber class. The recent UN General Assembly in New York exposed the rapacity of this power. They are extravagant. Their Western counterparts are frugal. African leaders usually export conspicuous consumption to the international stage. While African delegations were chauffeured in convoys of trendy cars, and spent in luxurious hotels in New York, their financiers were tightening their belts. One example stood out: President of the Swiss Confederation Alain Berset cooked his own meals and shared a room in an apartment he rented for his delegation of five people. Every morning, he walked to the UN headquarters. He was captured working on his papers, without security, on a pavement on the sidelines of the UNGA. Not that President Berset could not afford the best hotels in New York, compete with personalised 'Thai Room Service', and much more in luxury and style. His country could do much better, but they have a tradition of people priorities. Strong economies do not flatter egos or satiate the salacity of the power elite. The Gross Domestic Product of Switzerland is nine times that of Kenya. The Swiss are frugal; Kenyans are conspicuous consumers.