The Kericho crash is worse than a massacre. It was right to kick out National Transport and Safety Authority from our roads because their work was harassing motorists. They were doing nothing, but just rent-seeking. We have a fully-fledged traffic police department. But they must be vetted afresh. Concerning the recent fatal accident, the traffic department at Kakamega should be held responsible because this Public Service Vehicle should have undergone regular inspections throughout its route. Since the driver was tired, having driven the bus from Kakamega to Nairobi, the transport committee will discuss and make recommendations about the number of drivers in a bus. We will ask our chairman and Pokot South MP David Pkosing, through the clerk, to invite the traffic department, NTSA, Transport and Interior cabinet secretaries to answer questions from MPs in regard to the Kericho crash. We had recently invited Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet to appear before us over road accidents. He only sent representatives. This time, we will ensure all these people appear before us on this very sensitive matter. We have enough laws to deal with road accidents, the only problem is that they are not implemented. We have zero implementation of these important laws. As lawmakers, we are ready to rectify anomalies in the law, enhance and tighten loopholes. The issue of speed limits and speed governors must be enforced to ensure it is 80-km per hour because we are dealing with human life. We should check on the vehicle capacity and ensure that it is adhered to. We need to conduct frequent inspections on the stability of vehicles on our roads. Going by this recent accident, I can say that the police are incapable of controlling road carnage. I think there should be mass transfers of traffic police officers annually to curb corruption. We want the department to be a fully-fledged department of police like that of Directorate of Criminal Investigations. We want it to have a streamlined and clear chain of command so that movement of vehicles can be easily controlled. I want to send my condolences to the bereaved families, but we must ensure, as a people, that we prevent further deaths.  The Lugari MP and National Assembly Transport Committee member spoke to the Star