So Moi Day is still a public holiday! As usual, it is interesting to track through the
various constitution drafts. In 2002 the Constitution of Kenya Review
Commission did not seem to focus on the presidential days, as you might call
them: Kenyatta Day on October 20 and Moi day on October 10. It just proposed
three “national days”: Madaraka Day, Jamhuri Day and a day to be fixed as
“Constitution Day” to mark the adoption of the new Constitution. By the time the draft emerged from Bomas, October 20had been included, but renamed “Mashujaa Day”. This remained in the
Committee of Experts’ (CoE) drafts. Interestingly, the Parliamentary Select
Committee in Naivasha removed all the detail, leaving only “Parliament may
prescribe and provide for national days and public holidays”. But the CoE thought this was not something on which
they had to accept the MPs’ view, and reinstated the earlier provision. 
The CoE obviously thought – rightly – that national days were not a topic for
MPs and politics, but for the people and should be in the Constitution. Fairly clearly none of the CKRC, Bomas or CoE really
focussed on the fact that there was a thing as a “Moi Day” public holiday.
Probably if they had they would have eliminated it  NATIONAL DAY OR PUBLIC HOLIDAY? The Constitution carefully distinguishes between
national days and public holidays. All national days are public holidays, but
most public holidays are not national days. Our only national days are Madaraka
Day, Jamhuri Day and Mashujaa Day. Parliament can pass laws recognising public
holidays, but not add new national days. No law defines the difference between public holiday
and national day. As a matter of common sense, national days are intended as a
celebration of nationhood, but the Constitution does not demand any official
celebrations on those days. Most countries have days they celebrate as national
days, some, like Kenya, more than one. Countries may, for example, celebrate
their independence day, a revolution (like Bastille Day in France), a constitution
day (Norway and Denmark), a monarch’s birthday (like Thailand) or a saint’s day
(like Ireland). Kenya is now in the odd position of marking Moi Day,
but not any day associated explicitly with the first President! A LITTLE HISTORY The Public Holidays Act dates back to 1912. The list
of holidays was very British — including Empire Day (remember that?) — and the
first Monday in August (then August Bank Holiday in the UK). The other days
were Good Friday and Easter Monday, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, and New Year’s
Day. Now the Act provides for 11 general public holidays, plus
another in election years: The day of any general election (added to the law in
1997). Kenyatta Day was added in 1964 – as early as late April, when Kenyatta
by legal notice added this, Labour Day and Independence Day.  Apparently
delusions of grandeur (or even of royalty) set in early! Moi Day was added in
1990 – by then Moi must have been sensing that the age of dictators was
beginning to fade. Did he want to underpin his pre-eminence or provide for a
memorial after office, one wonders. (Of course the ages of dictators are not
really over.) WHY MOI DAY SEEMS SO
INAPPROPRIATE When Moi Day was introduced as a holiday, Parliament
was largely a rubber stamp for government. (It is somewhat better now, but is
not quite so subservient to the Executive). The Daily Nation on Moi Day
this week related how some MPs, including Martin Shikuku, were opposed, because
they thought later Presidents would want their own “days” (and perhaps because
awe of Moi was already fading), but did not speak openly Reaction against Moi and his regime provided a major
impetus for a new Constitution was a reaction to Moi’s regime. Without Moi
everything is possible, people said. A new Constitution was to ensure there
would be no more Mois: No more Presidents for life, no more Nyayo House torture
chambers, no more abuse of human rights or stealing from the people. What an
irony, then, that Moi Day should survive the old constitution that he twisted
to his purposes and that sustained his rule for so long. HOW AND WHY WAS MOI DAY
RESUSCITATED? A Mr Nyauchi went to court to argue it was wrong to
say that Moi Day no longer existed. Justice George Odunga agreed. The case was
argued in a very narrow way. Mr Nyauchi’s case was resisted by the Attorney
General and relevant Cabinet Secretary. Their reasons were clearly untenable.
Justice Odunga was clearly right to say the Constitution gives no detail about
public holidays. And that the Public Holidays Act was still in force after the
new Constitution, unless it contradicted it. What is perhaps disappointing is that no one seems to
have argued that having a Moi Day contradicts the values and principles of the
Constitution. Perhaps the Attorney General would have found this hard to argue.
The pity is that no one applied to be an amicus curiae to argue this
point. But our approach to the role of friends of the court is very narrow and
we do not usually allow them to argue points not raised by the main parties. SO IS A MOI DAY COMPATIBLE
WITH CONSTITUTION? Now that we are in the era of our fourth President
(and, had it not been for the abuses of the periods of Kenyatta I and Moi,
would have been on the seventh or so), we should have moved beyond the personalisation
of power and nation to thinking of the nation as the people not the person. In fact, the Constitution is clearly hostile to
personality cults. It replaced Kenyatta Day with the national holiday of
Mashujaa Day, and declared that portraits of human beings should not appear on
Kenyan banknotes and coins issued in future. You might argue that the UK still
has the queen on its currency, but the modern monarch is not a politically
divisive figure, but should be a symbol of national unity. Is a Moi Day compatible with the Preamble that
recognises “the aspirations of all Kenyans for a government based on the
essential values of human rights, equality, freedom, democracy, social justice
and the rule of law”? Is it compatible with the values of the Constitution like
patriotism and national unity? Is it compatible with a right like equality to
have one day named after one man from one community? INTO THE FUTURE Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i tells us
that his ministry has already been considering the future of public holidays.
Let us put some observations on the table for that process. First, Moi Day is an anomaly, and an insult to those
who suffered under him. It is true that we now have one Muslim holiday (Id el
Fitri) as a general holiday. We are not suggesting that the holidays of all
religions, however small, should be recognised for all. There are possibly more
Baha’is in Kenya now than Hindus, Jains and Sikhs combined. It may seem a
little odd to have various Christian holidays, despite the constitutional
prohibition on state religion, but it just recognises the realities of a
predominantly Christian population. There is no Hindu holiday recognised for
all; Diwali is a public holiday just for Hindus. The same is true for Id ul
Adha for Muslims. Is it compatible with non-discrimination for certain groups
to have holidays recognised for them only? But under Article 32 on freedom of
religion, everyone ought, if practicable, to be able to include their religious
holidays in their annual holiday allowance. And, why Madaraka Day? Many people do not understand
it. It was not Independence Day – just the day Kenya got internal
self-government, but remained a colony. It only became a public holiday in 1964
to replace Commonwealth Day (the renamed old Empire Day). Finally, how about reverting to the CKRC draft and
recognising Constitution Day (August 27th) as a public holiday?  