First Lady Margaret Kenyatta yesterday bought the champion bull weighing 650kgs at the Nairobi International Trade Fair. The second bull weighing 560kgs was bought by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The overall champion bull, which is a crossbreed of a Boran and Semmintal, was bought for Sh670,000, the price of a Probox car. Uhuru bought the Boran bull for Sh380,000. The bulls were auctioned at the trade fair at Jamhuri Grounds. Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri bought another one weighing 540kgs at the same price, while Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko bought one weighting 460kgs at Sh280,000. All the winning bulls came from the Kenya Seed Company’s Elgon Downs Farm in Kitale. Hosea Sirima, the farm’s head of production, said last year’s champion bull also belonged to the farm and weighed 700kgs and was bought by the President at Sh1.2 million. Sirima said the secret to high livestock production is ensuring quality feed, vaccination and other good management measures such as vaccination and treatment. “A friendly environment is crucial for the animals,” he said. The Nairobi Show entered its fourth day and visitors viewed farm machinery, including chaff cutters, choppers, water pumps and maize shellers. Chaff cutter Julius Njuguna from Gulf Africa Machinery Kenya Ltd said the chaff cutter is a big attraction to small-scale farmers keeping dairy animals. “The chaff cutter is ideal for farmers with two to three dairy cows and it comes in two or three blades. Many farmers prefer the three blades chaff cutter, which cuts in small sizes and has higher output unlike the two-bladed chaff cutter,” he said. Njuguna said it can be operated manually, with electricity or petrol. It costs between Sh28,000 to Sh32,000. Farmers can also purchase a multi-purpose chopper for between Sh38,000 to Sh40,000. The multi-purpose chopper can cut nappier grass, hay, grind chicken feed and can be used as a posho mill. It is operated using electricity or petrol.  Portable posho mill The posho mill is currently being showcased at the Nairobi trade fair and it is new in the market. Njuguna said it has changeable frames, which can be adjusted according to the maize flour you want. “It occupies a small space unlike conventional posho mills. It can mill four bags of 90 kg or 320 kilos of maize in one hour. It costs Sh38,000,” he said. Margaret Wachera from Nyaga Mechanical Engineers said unlike the conventional posho mills, it has no vibrations or noise when milling, making it ideal for use at home. She said they are working in partnership with Kenya Women’s Trust Fund to sell to women groups. “The posho mill is ideal for women and the youth. One can carry it on a motorbike and go to the nearest market and mill maize for residents at a cost,” Wachera said. The main section of the posho mill has been imported from India and the rest of the machine is fabricated by Nyaga Mechanical Engineering. BLUE JEANS Ruben Centre was voted number two in the urban agriculture category at the fair. Musa Juma, an urban agriculture consultant, said some of the innovations are designed for those with limited spaces and low income. “Informal settlements are challenged with space, water, soil, time since many of them residents work as casual labourers earning little income. This kind of kitchen gardening on the walls or corridors ensures they have food on the table,” he said. Juma said there are innovations for home gardening, including use of plastic bottles and old jeans, which use simple drip irrigation systems to provide water for the vegetables. “The jeans have replaced the old sacks, which are tear fast and easily. You can plant kale and spinach in old jeans and harvest them for three years before you change the cloth,” he said. Juma said the centre has been working with students from the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology to develop these simple irrigation systems for home gardens using recycled home materials.