Kenya has been put in the spotlight for backtracking on or disregarding regional and international policies to protect migrants. A report released yesterday on ‘Free and Safe Migration in East Africa’ said the government, for instance, is reluctant to implement crucial regional protocols to accelerate economic growth and development. The report by the African Centre for Migration and Society in collaboration with the Open Society Foundations shows that the crackdown on illegal migrants has increased irregular migration. It says work restrictions, such as limiting access to work permits by foreign nationals seeking work, have “increased irregular migration” instead of controlling it. “This trend has to be reversed through a constructive dialogue on migration, work and the economy. Kenya has been lax in factoring voluntary migrants into its internal development policies and frameworks,” the 121-page report reads. This is despite Kenya signing the East African Community’s Common Market Protocol of 2010, allowing free movement of goods, labour, capital and services with its partner states. They are Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. Read: Crackdown on migrant workers risks sparking Xenophobia - Amnesty The survey was conducted from January this year with face-to-face interviews between researchers and respondents, including government officials, refugees, irregular migrants and regional representatives. The survey was carried out in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda. Present at the report launch were Immigration senior assistant director Dan Opon, Open Society Initiative executive director Mburu Gitu and the Africa Centre on Migration Society co-founder Nassim Majidi. “For the region to thrive, people and goods must move more freely and safely. Skilled professionals such as lawyers, doctors, accountants, architects and engineers will have to work across borders and develop common guidelines,” Gitu said. Opon said the Immigration department is developing a National Migration Policy to open up the country for migrants in promoting regional integration. Kenya has neither ratified nor implemented the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (Comesa) protocol. It aims to speed up economic growth and development by giving citizens the right to establish residence in partner states and allowing free movement of services and capital. “Kenya has no internal legislative framework that factors the development impact of migrants. Two policies to address this are still in draft form,” the report reads. The policies are the Kenya Draft National Migration Policy of 2009 and the Kenya Draft National Labour Migration. The report said Tanzanian labour migrants in Nairobi must travel to the border every three months to renew their passports, and police harass EAC economic migrants in Garissa, the report reads. Read: Kenya to lose many jobless low-skilled youths as migration persists Click here for the latest political news