ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday took a swipe at DP William Ruto following the latter's assertions that the former Premier is out to wreck the Jubilee party. Speaking in Machakos, Raila said those who feel he is scheming to have them removed from Jubilee are "only scared of the war on corruption." Without mentioning names, Raila said the government's latest crackdown on graft "has sent tremors making some politicians to panic". He further refuted claims by the Deputy President that he is taking advantage of the handshake to cripple the Jubilee Party. Raila said during the launch of a hospital in Mlolongo that such claims are baseless and hold no water. "If you are innocent, why should you panic? We have said the war on graft is not targeting anyone," he said. "...what is amazing is how others are barking like 'dogs' as if they already know they are guilty." Also read: Stop using Raila as scapegoat to leave Jubilee, Junet tells Ruto Raila added he is not interested in the 2022 politics or anything personal but what will benefit all Kenyans. He said it was unfortunate for Ruto to resort to venting attacks on him. "He is afraid of the ongoing war on graft." Raila maintained that his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta is aimed at ending tribal and economic divisions that have crippled the economy for long. The ODM leader spoke a day after Ruto cautioned him against using the handshake to cause confusion in government. Ruto accused the ODM leader, though in a veiled remark, of hatching a plot to spread falsehoods about him with a view of wrecking the Jubilee Party. "I want to tell my friends that we know what the handshake is all about. They can’t export conmanship, confusion, gossip," he said on Sunday. Read: Handshake won't help you shake Jubilee, Ruto tells Raila But Raila maintained he is not interested in taking anyone's position through the handshake. "If you are running alone, you cannot claim to have won because you cannot compete against yourself," he said. "We are only interested in what is crippling the Kenyan people, that is corruption, mass theft, insecurity and poverty," the ODM leader said. Click here for the latest political news