Nurses have threatened to go on strike in three week’s time if a Sh2,000 increase in their retention fee is not scrapped. The Nursing Council of Kenya increased the annual fee from Sh1,000 to Sh3,000. National Nurses Association of Kenya chairman Alfred Obengo on Friday said they were not consulted. “The council passed a regulation that infringes on the rights of nurses. They are sucking our blood and we cannot allow it,” he said. Obengo was addressing the association’s annual general meeting in Machakos. The meeting was attended by 1,500 member nurses from all the counties. Obengo said nurses will boycott work if the council fails to reduce the retention fee by November 6. He said the nurses will demonstrate to protest against the fee increment. “We will match to Afya House and present our petition to the CS and proceed to the Nurses Council of Kenya offices on Kabarnet Road. We want to tell them that the increase is too much. They are stealing from us,” Obengo said. He said it was wrong for the council to make arbitrary decisions. “They are doing their own things. We were not consulted,” Obengo said. The official said the fee must be agreeable to all stakeholders. “The council must not conduct itself in a manner that is oppressive and offensive to the nurses. We better have chaos elsewhere and not at the regulatory agency,” he said. The nurses have also expressed reservations with the Nurses Bill  pending in the National Assembly. “The nurses were misrepresented in the drawing of the bill and we have the evidence,” Obengo said. “We are giving the government an ultimatum to look into these issues and reduce the retention fee, failure to which we’ll go to the streets.” The chairman said the association is ready for dialogue. “That is why we are giving them one month to address the issues,” he said. The nurses said they will sabotage the universal health coverage programme if their grievances are not addressed. Obengo said nurses were happy to see President Uhuru Kenyatta launch the programme and were willing to help in the implementation. “But our regulator wants chaos. They should not blame us if the situation is not addressed by November 7,” he said. Last year, nurses went on a five-month strike that dealt the country’s health system one of its biggest blows in decades. Maternity, surgeries and inpatient services were among those crippled when the nurses boycotted work. On Friday, Obengo said going on strike is their constitutional right and a way of forcing the regulator to address their grievances.