After being confirmed as the 2018 SportPesa Premier League champions with six matches to spare, Gor Mahia finally toasted to their trophy yesterday at Moi Stadium, Kisumu after playing Mathare United to a two-all draw. Gor laid hands on the trophy in front of their charged fans to make it five in the last six years and hence confirmed their place to the Caf Champions League. Before being conferred with the trophy and the medals, Gor took on 2008 champions Mathare United where Cliff Nyakeya scored a late penalty to deny K’Ogalo all the three points. Jacques Tuyisenge opened the scoring floodgates in the ninth minute before Humphrey Mieno doubled in the second half. However, substitute Clinsman Omulanga halved the deficit before Nyakeya served his former club with bitterness in the dying minutes of the game with a well taken penalty after Joash Onyango had fouled Omulanga in the box. Despite failing to get a win in the last four league matches, the coronation ceremony erased the past financial debacles and lack of motivation in the playing unit. Head coach Dylan Kerr will be elated to have guided K’ogalo to a second league crown since his appointment after last year’s heroics which saw the club dethrone the then champions Tusker. In other matches played yesterday, Posta Rangers poor run continued as they lost 2-0 to Sony Sugar at Ruaraka stadium. Meshack Karani netted the brace for the Patrick Odhiambo coached millers. Vihiga United held Kariobangi Sharks to a three all draw at Mumias Sports complex. Michael Isabwa scored a brace for Vihiga with Vincent Wonder netting the other goal.However Sharks replied through Erick Kapaito who also netted twice before youngster Sydney Simale grabbed the other goal. AFC Leopards began life without their head coach Rodolfo Zapata with a 2-1 loss to Ulinzi Stars at Afraha Stadium. Elvis Nandwa and Enosh Ochieng were on target while Duncan Otieno scored Ingwe’s consolation. An already relegated Wazito beat runners up finishers Bandari 2-1.It was Bernard Mwalala’s first loss since he took over reigns at Bandari in July. Derrick Onyango and John Mutua were the heros for Wazito while William Wadri responded for the dockers. Nakumatt held Sofapaka to a two all draw at Narok Stadium