ODM (since back when it was ODM, and then CORD – there always seem to be rounds of permutations) has pushed for a referendum like waves lapping on the ocean shore. I’m not sure if, as Mr Odinga says, a referendum is ‘inevitable’ and ‘unstoppable’, but the push for it certainly appears to be. Because here we are again. The previous iteration of this was just after the ‘handshake’ agreement between Mr Kenyatta and Mr Odinga, and then the latter wanted to introduce a third, regional level of government, which struck me as particularly misguided: The problem is not exactly that Kenya does not have enough government, but that it has a government that does not government competently. I have tried to find out what the next referendum will be about specifically – it will involve some change to the constitution, but it is difficult to get a clear sense for it, not the least because there are, among the people supporting it, several different proposals floating about. I can see some benefit in moving towards a parliamentary system where the PM is the head of the largest party because that would create at least some teeny tiny pressure to build actual parties instead of those ‘vehicles’ that are discarded like underwear. I do not think that the senate has really been a fireworks of achievement, nor that the women MPs and nominated MPs have really delivered on what had been intended with their position. I also suspect that we have a good number more counties than we actually needed – although one of the positive side effects of opening up these mini-kingdoms to aspiring eaters-in-chief is that the competition for the top job in the country may have become marginally less brutal. But as David Ndii and others remind us, there is a real risk of using the wage bill argument to roll back devolution. This most recent push for a revision of the constitution may not come to anything if people cannot agree on what exactly they would want to change (this, too, will be dominated by what will work to their own personal advantage). But the constitution itself is not really the issue here: I’m repeating myself here, but spend ten minutes in Nairobi traffic and that will tell you how much people really care about laws and regulations. So referendum pushers: not seeking and taking bribes at every corner (‘sugar greeting’ – what on earth??), not blowing taxpayers’ money on sports-watching trips, actually implementing the current constitution including, importantly, its integrity clauses – can we start there instead of more displacement activity that will keep everyone’s knickers in a twist for another year?