In all discussions touching on inequality, it is important that we never lose focus on the truth. According to the world inequality statistics, Kenya ranks the 66th most unequal country in the world. Although Kenya’s Coastline has a regional advantage that promotes tourism and the hotel industry, it is one of the most unequal regions, characterised by destitution and social unrest. Some areas at the South Coast — Kwale county — have been grappling with land ownership issues linked to historical injustices, which have condemned residents to being squatters. Devolution opened a new phase in Kenya’s economic and political history, giving a stronger voice to community participation and initiating conversations on regional disparities. The main objective of devolution was to bring about equitable distribution of resources to address socioeconomic inequalities immanent in the former centralised system. Inequality focusses on differences among individuals in terms of opportunities and outcomes. The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) and the Society for International Development (SID) indicated that in 2013, Lamu, Tana River, Kwale and Kilifi counties had the highest levels of poverty punctuated with extensive inequalities and income disparities. The ratio of expenditure by the wealthiest to the poor was 20:1, indicating that for one shilling a poor person spent, a rich person spent 20 times more. These disparities have not changed. The Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) developed a formula to share revenue among the counties to attain equitable distribution. The CRA has recently developed the second Marginalisation Policy and criteria for sharing the Equalisation Fund to tackle inequalities. From 2013 to 2018, Coast counties have cumulatively received Sh149.4 billion in equitable share and conditional grants, with Kilifi being the biggest beneficiary receiving Sh39.2 billion. Immediate noticeable changes include revival of technical institutions and Early Childhood Development Education centres. However, economic inequalities have proved to be more complex and paradoxical, with no significant reduction in intra-county inequalities.The 2015-16 Kenya Integrated Household Budget Survey (KIHBS) indicates that 24.7 per cent of the coastal population use unclean water sources, with Kwale leading at 39.5 per cent. The discussion evokes passion and controversy, with some arguing that while the CRA focuses on equitable distribution of resources, counties should act to arrest glaring inequalities. There are common issues that contribute to chronic inequalities at the Coast. They include unpredictable weather patterns in a region highly dependent on agriculture, human conflicts, inefficient marketing systems, poor infrastructure enablers, high illiteracy levels as well as poor access to basic services. Understanding these inequalities is important in developing policies and strategies. In the CRA’s second Marginalisation Policy, about 26 sublocations in Magarini subcounty, Kilifi, will receive cash from the Equalisation Fund. The county is the highest beneficiary in the second policy, with 78 sublocations targeted. The 2015 Statistical Abstract Report shows that the subcounty had six health facilities, the fewest in the entire county, while others such as Malindi subcounty had 96. In such cases, it is necessary to define a criterion for revenue distribution to ensure residents in all regions have access to healthcare. In addition, it is imperative to understand how the county government intends to complement CRA’s efforts in addressing inequalities. To address the glaring inequalities, a starting point may be to establish and document criterion for distribution of resources across wards. The county executives may need to work with county assemblies to legislate measures to address inequalities. Huge regional imbalances are a source of potential social and political conflicts when compounded with rising unemployment exposing youths to drug abuse and violent extremism. Research analyst, Institute of Public Finance Kenya dndirangu@ipfkenya.or.ke