The minority communities of the Boni and Sanye in Lamu have joined forces to fight grabbers and protect their ancestral land. They say they have been suffering for 55 years. More than 200 representatives from the two communities, including elders and leaders, assembled in Bargoni village on Sunday to deliberate on the best ways to protect their land from grabbers. They were from across Boni and Sanye inhabited villages of Basuba, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani, Kiangwe, Pandanguo, Mkunumbi, Kwasasi, Madina and Bahamisi. Bonis are traditionally hunters and gatherers. The Sanyes are nomadic pastoralists. Together, the two communities are pushing to have the county and national governments diversify land regulations in the region so they can acquire title deeds to help them keep grabbers at bay. Owing to previous land adjudication laws, majority of the land in Lamu has remained classified as public and undemarcated. This has made it impossible for anyone to lay claim on the land. The situation has also made it easy for tycoons to hold fake title deeds and award themselves parcels of land, leaving many residents as squatters. The Sanye and Boni communities have occupied undemarcated land for decades. They want the land subdivided and allocated to individuals for easy protection. Basuba MCA Deko Barissa said, “We are joining forces to push for our land rights. So much of our ancestral lands have been stolen and grabbed just because we have no way of protecting them.” He said the current land laws in Lamu have not favoured them and they have been marginalised for a long time. Basuba ward has the highest concentration of the Bonis in the region. The two communities have also launched a drive to have their land boundaries clearly established. Barissa promised to forward a motion, seeking to have all Sanye and Boni lands demarcated and residents allocated title deeds as soon as practically possible. Doza Diza, a vocal Boni elder, said the situation has increased invasions of their lands as people come from far and wide to settle there without care or explanation. “We have people coming with lorries and harvesting sand and murram on our lands. When we ask them why, they tell us to back off as we don’t own it and that’s it is public land. To some extent, they are right but it is still our ancestral land,” Diza said. He said time has come to stop the trend. In May, the Boni minority community in Pandanguo, complained of invasion by tycoons on their land. They said the tycoons, who are selling off their ancestral lands, were mostly from Mombasa and the neighbouring counties. Community elders said tycoons were taking advantage of the illiteracy of some of their members. Some residents fell for schemes of people who duped them into signing papers showing they have willingly given out their lands. The tycoons were moving around villages listing residents and recording their ID numbers, which they later used to process dubious land ownership papers. The elders appealed to the national and county governments to intervene and investigate the matter.