The integration of duksi memorisation and madarassa learning into the education system is overdue, the National Council for Nomadic Education in Kenya said on Friday. The government, through Naconek, is seeking to have the two learning methods integrated into the formal system to improve education among pastoralists, hunters and gatherers and fishermen. The duksi system is largely practised among the Somali and involves memorising the Koran and other Islamic teachings. Naconek CEO Harun Mohamed on Friday said failure to recognise dukis and madrasa systems had contributed to low enrollment in schools in Muslim areas. “We all know that dukis and madarsa are a parallel systems of education. The two have kept a number of children in Muslim-dominated areas out of school,” Mohamed said. He was addressing a forum on the integration of the two systems into the national curriculum in Garissa. MCAs and county public service board officials attended. Mohamed said about 70 per cent of children in Muslim areas do not go to school. Mohamed said the integration will help children attend classes and continue with their Quranic lessons. “The Islamic madrassa education system is holistic, comprehensive and imparts lifelong skills and attitudes that offer opportunities to current global challenges including peace,” Mohamed said. “Any education system is to ensure national cohesion, fulfillment of individual and cultural aspirations.” Assembly speaker Ibrahim Abass said the forum gave MCAs an opportunity to contribute to the implementation roadmap by developing policies to facilitate the integration. “I hope you will make a realistic commitment to achieve this vision,” Abass said. Once integrated, the government will pay madrassa and dukis teachers. The integration process began in 2015 after the government set up Naconek to reverse poor education trends in nomadic counties. Mohamed said there is urgent need to enhance education, improve access, retention, completion and transition of learners in the counties. Insecurity, backwardcultural practices, long distances to schools, few institutions, poverty and insufficient resources have been blamed for poor performance.  