Shortage of tailor made investment tools places Kenya at position seven in Africa in local investor capacity, a new survey shows. The ranking which saw Kenya score 33 out of 100 points is based on the second edition of ‘Absa Africa Financial Markets Index’ prepared by Absa Group. South Africa led with 95 points, followed by Morocco and Botswana with 65 and 64 points. Namibia ranked fourth with 56 points while Nigeria closed the top five bracket with 50 points. Seychelles was sixth with 49 points. The report ranks markets based on market depth, access to foreign exchange, and market transparency. Others are tax and regulatory environment, macroeconomic opportunity and the legality and enforceability of standard financial markets master agreements. Kenya was top in access to foreign exchange with 93 points. According to the survey, scarcity of the investment vehicles forces pension schemes to ‘over invest in asset classes with maturities that are not well matched to their longer-term liabilities’. Besides, it hampers pension funds’ ability ‘to fulfill their roles as contractual savings institutions’ hence delaying overall economic prospects. It also results in local capital markets being unable to raise enough funds from domestic investors to finance long-term infrastructure and other development projects. “This includes reducing their willingness or ability to invest in more complex and ‘adventurous’ assets and strategies while pursuing stable returns.” says the Absa report. Kenyan pension funds’ assets were worth Sh1.17 trillion as at June this year, with atleast 93 per cent of it invested in fixed income securities and listed equities. However, the new consortium made up of 12 pension funds intends to expand their investments to alternative asset classes including affordable housing, private equity, energy and infrastructure projects which would ordinarily be challenging if pension funds were to invest individually. The 12 pension funds are from the public and private sector and have a combined total asset base of Sh204 billion. The survey respondents highlighted that lack of knowledge and expertise of pension fund trustees and other asset owners hinders the development of new financial products. Last week, the Kenya Pension Fund Investment Consortium announced seeking a partnership with a group of US funds to co-invest in large infrastructure and housing projects in the country. According to the consortium’s steering committee chair Sundeep Raichura they are more confident in diversifying their investments when global funds co-invest with them.