Security officers have identified the mastermind of last Wednesday’s Al Shabaab attack at Arabia Boys Secondary School in Mandera that left two non-local teachers dead. Police spokesman Charles Owino said in a statement on Saturday that intelligence reports had identified Hassan Hodey, a Somali national from neighboring Damasa area as the one behind the attack. “Security agencies are pursuing the culprit and will not relent till he is brought to justice,” Owino said. Armed attackers ambushed the school with guns and grenades at around 1am and proceeded to the teachers’ quarters. They hacked the two teachers to death as they tried to escape. They then hurled a grenade at the houses and the classrooms, setting them ablaze. Police reservists who guard the school engaged the militants in a gun battle but they were overpowered. Read: Two more teachers killed in Mandera al Shabaab attack Knut on Friday condemned the attack and reiterated its call for the Teachers Service Commission to hire teachers from the local communities in the North Eastern region to minimize attacks on non-local teachers. Owino said security agencies are also on alert for any possible attack by the militants targeting security installations and any other soft targets along the border between Mandera and Elwak. He said this is informed by developments over the past two weeks where militants retreating from AMISOM-backed purge on Al Shabaab bases in Somalia have been converging close to the Kenyan border. He said the buildup is concentrated around Hola, Dura, Jidahaley, Juma and Ilkabere areas. “Our officers are on high alert monitoring their movements so as to counter any attempts by these criminals to cross over to our country to cause fear and despondence,” Owino said. He called on residents along areas that border Somalia to be vigilant and report to security agencies any suspicious movement of individuals or groups. See also: Posting new teachers to Northeastern won't solve insecurity - Sossion Click here for the latest political news