Posta Rangers head coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo has called upon his players to be calm ahead of their must-win final league match against Kakamega Homeboyz this weekend. Rangers are third from bottom with 37 points a rank which is not safe as it attracts a playoff with the second runners up of the National Super League to determine whether the second tier outfit will be promoted or the top flight team will be relegated. The mailmen, who have blown hot and cold this season, have posted nine wins, 10 draws and lost 14— leaving them with a tough task of winning their last match against Homeboyz who are ninth. Rangers are hoping to thump Homeboyz and hope Nakumatt (15th) and Vihiga United (12th) who are also staring at the playoff, will draw in their match. They are also banking on Leopards to claw a 14th placed Nzoia Sugar so as to keep their spot in the top league. A win for Kariobangi Sharks over a 13th placed Chemelil Sugar will also see them escape. Nakumatt have 37 points same as Rangers but have a superior goal difference while Vihiga, Chemelil and Nzoia have 38 points. Rangers are hoping for a win and a unwelcome result for the four to guarantee them a place in top flight football. Ahead of the match, Pamzo has urged his players to be calm and avoid conceding early goals. “If we play under pressure then we will make many mistakes and get punished. I have told them to approach the game like any other and forget about the ramifications of a negative outcome. I am confident we will win and survive the playoff,” he said. Rangers were billed as genuine title contenders before the season began having assembled experienced players but the gradual reduction of funds by their sponsor Posta Kenya and the exit of shirt sponsor Lotto reduced the club to mid-tablers and eventually relegation candidates. Pamzo believes the unceremonious switch of Patrick Matasi to Tusker mid season deepened their woes. “Honestly, we have a poor season as far as results are concerned. Money has contributed a lot to the bad run but we hope in the subsequent season, things will change.”