As the government of the people, by the people and for the people, no
democracy can survive without the opposition. When the opposition can no longer
keep the government in check, and speak for the people, it means, alongside
democracy, it is dead. In a democracy, key functions of the opposition is to speak to
government on behalf of the people, criticise and it when it goes astray, and
offer an alternative when society needs a change of government. When opposition
speaks, there is democracy but when it is voiceless, there is dictatorship. When democracy is dead and dictatorship tyrannizing, there is no oxygen
and society is asphyxiated. Indeed, there is dictatorship when there is only
one voice of government in society, when there is no criticism or self-criticism
but only blind support of the government. There is death in the air, when there
is no opposition to change government or substitute a bad government. Society is dead when opposition keeps quiet when there is need to speak,
and when it speaks for and as government. Opposition is no more when it
physically and politically joins government, leaving the people and society
without a voice. In Kenya, government has always loathed and wished opposition and
democracy dead. Since there can be no opposition without democracy, the government
has also fought against democracy, using its death to kill the opposition as
well. As democracy embraces opposition, dictatorship hates opposition by the media
when it points out ills that are promoted by tyranny.  Dictatorship, on
the other hand, hates opposition when it fights corruption, in which tyranny thrives.
Dictatorship also hates opposition by parties and it will try and ban them and
their activities. Dictatorship also hates opposition by individual politicians,
whom it will persecute and, when possible, assassinate. From our history, our presidents and governments have always wanted to
govern without opposition. After independence, the ruling party Kanu swallowed
up Kadu, transforming the country into a one-party state. When Jaramogi Odinga
formed KPU,  an opposition party, it was
banned to perpetuate the one-party rule. When other parties such Mwakenya and the Kenya Patriotic Front later
formed underground, they were banned and their leaders crippled to this day.
Opposition was also suppressed through assassination of leaders such as Pio
Gama Pinto, JM Kariuki and Tom Mboya, and the detention without trial of many opposition
politicians such as Jaramogi, George Anyona, Koigi wa Wamwere and many others Tragically, without opposition, people have no voice to advocate what
they need, criticise exorbitant taxes and inordinate prices and change
government when it gets too oppressive. And what are the people without a
voice? They are nothing but slaves living in fear. When opposition quits, it
silences the people and subjects them to rule by fear, thereby
self-transforming into tyranny. To eliminate opposition, governments resort to many temptations as Satan
did with Jesus Christ. Like a green mamba, a party in power can economically
and politically swallow the opposition, as Kanu did with Kadu and UDP. Giving
its leaders work, ministerial positions or simply giving them land can also
silence opposition. Other than temptations, government can use violence to eradicate and ban
opposition parties, deny them economic support and stymie them. The government
can also lock opposition leaders in detention or frame them up in fabricated
charges, and even go to an extent of killing them.