Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi has cautioned church leaders against accepting looted money from politician in the name of harambees. Mudavadi on Saturday said it’s high time for all church leaders to start emulating true principles founded on biblical values. He said the church has lost its foundation in leading people to God and rather normalised things to favor and lure large congregations. “We have seen people looting public funds and bringing billions of Shillings to church during fund raising, yet the church cannot question where the money is coming from, we have become accomplice to stolen goods,” he said. Insisting that sincerity in places of worship must first begin with the clergies, Mudavadi questioned why majority of clergies have made the church a laundry for washing looted money. Mudavadi was speaking during a home coming ceremony of Matisi ward MCA Obed Mwale in Trans Nzoia county. Mudavadi also called on the President Uhuru Kenyatta to fulfill his promise on dealing with cartels who are destroying Agricultural sector that is already on its deathbed. “We saw the President making a very solid statement concerning the plight of farmers, he even swore in the name of God, that’s exactly the kind of statements we are expecting from our leaders,” he said. Read: Stop 2022 campaigns and serve Kenyans, Uhuru tells leaders He said Uhuru should not only solve maize farmers plight but he should also look into coffee, sugarcane and pyrethrum issues. “All these sectors are suffering and need urgent and serious interventions,” he added. Mudavadi was accompanied by Bungoma senator Moses Wetangula. Those who had a chance to speak centred on the current calls for the country to head to a referendum. Mudavadi said there is need for an all inclusive consultation that brings all stakeholders together to critically look into all gaps within the constitution that needs to be amended before heading to the referendum. Other leaders echoed the need for the President to first form a committee that will appoint new IEBC officials who will then conduct the referendum. “The same IEBC who conducted a shambolic election are the same people who are expected to conduct the referendum, the body is in a state of disrepair and confusion it can’t be relied to at the moment, “ said Musalia. Also See: I didn't say referendum a must, let Kenyans decide - Raila Wetangula said that there is need for a referendum but first Kenyans should be told what exactly needs to be amended in the constitution. “Those calling for referendum are putting the cart before the horse, first things first, let them tell us why referendum it’s not just a matter of yes or no,” he said. Wetangula in his sentiment refuted claims that he has fallen apart with Mudavadi. He said despite both of them having shown an interest in the 2022 presidential race, they are still united are working to see the entire Western region come together. “No one should be worried about our unity, we both have one agenda for this country, we shall give you people direction come 2022,” Wetangula said. Click here for the latest political news