STARRING: Melonie Diaz, Madeleine Mantock, Sarah Jeffery, Ser’Darius Blain, Ellen Tamaki GENRE: Supernatural fiction BASED ON: Charmed by Constance M Burge  The reboot trend of previous shows has had unpredictable receptions from audiences. The remakes either become a success or a complete and utter disaster. The latter might be the case of the new Charmed reboot. The show starts with two sisters, Mel and Maggie, who are raised by a single mother. When their mother dies suspiciously, the sisters drift apart until something strange brings them back together. They both seem to be experiencing supernatural activities. That’s not all. An older girl shows up at their house and tells them their mother might have been her mother, too. The sisters are then captured by a strange man called Harry, who tells them he is their Whitelighter, a sort of guide for witches. Harry informs the girls of their powers, and that they have the right to choose to have their powers or have them stripped. But they must only work together because the power of three is the strongest magical power. Mel has the power to freeze time, while Maggie has the power to hear people’s thoughts. Their new, older sister Macy has the power of telekinesis. The sisters agree that they need to find answers for their mother’s murder and for that, they need to be witches. The production value of the show is a little better than the original. The use of modern technology to create mystical scenes makes it more realistic now compared to the former. However, that’s as good as it gets. The storylines, the characters, the prosecution are a tad over the top. The show tries to sell itself with exaggeration, which might not sit well with fans of the original show. Unfortunately, as the reboot is only 12 years apart from the ending of the original, fans of both shows will likely be the same. The show might still make it to a successful season if they target much younger generation with no connections to the original.  Star Rating: