National women’s volleyball team fell to their second defeat at the FIVB World Championships to leave their hopes of advancing to the second round hanging dangerously. Malkia Strikers fell 3-0 ( 25-20, 25-22, 25-15 ) to Puerto Rico in Hammamatsu, Japan yesterday, adding onto their loss against Serbia, with their only win coming in their opening match against Kazakhstan. The team will take a rest today before confronting former champions Brazil tomorrow and complete their Pool ‘D’ preliminary match-ups against Dominican Republic on Thursday. Japheth Munala’s side will have to win one of the two remaining ties if they are to proceed to the second round. Once again, team captain Mercy Moim top-scored for Kenya with 11 points while Daly Santana raked in a match-high 18 points for the winners. Puerto Rico prevailed in the contest via a stronger attack and superior defence as Kenya played well at times, but could not sustain it for long periods. The opening set was a competitive one with the teams raking in points in quick succession but Puerto Rico held the lead for most of the set until Kenya’s Noel Murambi tied the score at 13-13. However, the Central Americans ran away with a 16-14 advantage at the second technical †ime-out. Puerto Rico’s wing spikers were proficient on attack but Kenya leveled the scores at 19-19 but that was all they could go as Puerto Rico grabbed the set 25-20. Reception was Kenyan’s main undoing in the second set as Puerto Rico continued to pound away on attack and took an 8-6 lead at the first TTO and appeared in control, but the momentum soon changed. Kenya pulled ahead 11-10 after nice blocks from Edith Wisa and stretched the lead to 16-13 through Murambi’s spikes with the Puerto Ricans looking weary. Kenya was up 19-15 and looked on their way to winning the set, before Puerto Rico stormed back to level at 20-20 and then went ahead 21-20 and went on to claim the set 25-22. Kenya appeared disoriented in the third set as their opponents took a commanding 16-8 lead at the second TTO and cruised to claim the set and match 25-15. Munala said: “Our aim today was to qualify for the second round but Puerto Rico stopped us. We still have two games left. We will try to grow in the coming matches. We led 19-15 in the second set but did not receive well after that. We must get ready for Brazil next. We will go all out against them.”