The two suspects charged with the attempted murder of former Garissa Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar will remain in custody for longer after the High Court set aside bond terms granted by their trial magistrate. Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki are charged with attempting to kill Mukhtar on August 19 on Kandara Road in Kileleshwa, Nairobi, and conspiring to kill city lawyer Charles Kanjama between July 1 and September 27. They have denied the charges. Their accomplice David Mwai, who allegedly confessed to the police of the murder plot, died in police cells at Parklands. He is alleged to have told the police how he was hired to kill Mukhtar. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi granted them bond last month. But Justice Grace Ngenye vacated the terms set by Andayi and directed the probation department to table a fresh a pre-bail report in two weeks. Mukhtar’s lawyer Lynn Owano had petitioned Ngenye to suspend the release of the two suspects to await an application for the second probation report. The victim was shot in the head and is recovering at the Nairobi Hospital. Read: Human rights activist asks police to hasten probe into Mukhtar shooting His lawyer and the suspects’ defence counsels clashed in court yesterday during mention of the case. Aden and Njoki’s lawyer Githinji Mwangi said the continued incarceration of the suspects is unjustifiable. Owano has insisted probation officers must interview Mukhtar and his family and consider their fate before filing the report. The probation officers were to interview Mukhtar between yesterday and today. Owano has also maintained that some of the details given by Aden and Njoki in a pre-bail report filed last month must be interrogated. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki said the prosecution will only disclose all the witness statements to the defence because identities of some of the witnesses will be withheld. But Mwangi dismiss the piecemeal disclosure of evidence as an indication that the prosecution has no case and is not ready for the case. The case will be mentioned on October 17 for a pre-trial to set fresh hearing dates. Click here for the latest political news 