The European Union yesterday pledged a Sh5 billion grant towards the Nairobi Bus Rapid Transport project. The announcement was made by EU Ambassador to Kenya Stefano Dejak during the commemoration of the World Cities Day in Eastleigh, Nairobi. The grant is likely to resuscitate the Sh7 billion project that stalled four months ago due to lack of funds. The national and county governments will pay the remaining Sh2 billion to develop and install BRT supporting infrastructure within two to three years. The EU will also provide another Sh2.6 billion to purchase 50 high-capacity buses. “One thing that Nairobi needs is an effective bus rapid transport system. That is why EU has invested Sh5 billion grant to make sure Nairobi residents have a safe, none polluting transport system devoid of jams,” Dejak said. Read: Isuzu unveils BRT buses, matatu operators welcome move Nairobi Transport executive Mohamed Dagane said the grant will go towards the development of BRT Line 3. The Line will run from Dandora through Juja Road to Haile Selassie Avenue in the city centre and terminate at Kenyatta National Hospital. The other key line will run from Githurai through Thika Superhighway, Moi Avenue to Haile Selasie and end at KNH. Dagane said the project being implemented by the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, aims to complete at least two lines by December 12. Sources said President Uhuru Kenyatta wants to ride on a BRT bus on Jamhuri Day for the celebrations at Kasarani. Dagane said “logistical challenges and bureaucracies” have delayed the project. “We had to set specifications of the buses, gazette them and involve the public,” Dagane said. He said procurement of the low-flat floor buses with wide aisles is at an advanced stage. Read: State introduces dedicated lane for PSV buses plying Thika Road Governor Mike Sonko said the BRT system will include walkways and lanes for pedestrians and cyclists. “We have developed a Non-Motorized Transport policy that will ensure every new road built in the city has walkways,” Sonko said. Sonko said City Hall will be install CCTV cameras and streetlights in the CBD and hire more traffic marshals to reduce congestion. Sonko and Dejak launched the 2.2km Muratina Road which links General Waruinge Road to Thika Superhighway. The road is among the 16km roads on the eastern missing links whose construction is funded by the EU and the national government to ease traffic flow. Others are Likoni Road, Enterprise Road, Lusaka Road and Westlands - Parklands Ring Road as well as a cycle and walkway on Rabai Road. The projects will cost Sh5 billion of which EU will contribute Sh3.4 billion. Click here for the latest political news