"Who was NYS suspect Josephine Kabura working for? Where did she take the 'looted NYS money' in the sacks?" These are some of the questions posed by Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru after EACC gazetted that further investigations should be carried out into Josephine Kabura's affidavit. On August 26, Waiguru gave EACC seven days to make public findings on the investigation of Kabura's affidavit. Waiguru said the EACC summoned a number of people mentioned in the affidavit to record their statements but there was no outcome. Details: Waiguru gives EACC 7 days to make public probe report on Kabura's affidavit In a notice dated September 28, EACC said it commenced investigations following the affidavit and the loss of Sh791m. "EACC together with the DCI conducted investigations and established that the allegations made against the suspects were bereft of truth, were denied in totality and there was no evidence in support of the same," EACC said. The anti-graft agency said a report was compiled and forwarded to the DPP on June 12 recommending that the complainant be charged with the offence of knowingly misleading a person. "On July 11, the Director of Public Prosecution returned the inquiry file recommending further investigations," EACC added. Shortly after, the Governor, who was Devolution Cabinet secretary when the Sh791 million scandal was unearthed in 2015, went to social media praising the EACC for a job well done. "This is progress. However, I agree with the DPP that there should be further investigations," Waiguru said. "If both EACC and DCI have established that Kabura was lying who then was she working for? ... Whose agent was she?". On February 16, 2016, Kabura, one of the key suspects in the Sh791 million theft at the NYS placed Waiguru at the centre of the scandal. In a 16-page affidavit filed in court, Kabura, whose account received the money, described her alleged relationship with Waiguru. But Waiguru dismissed her as a “crazy woman” whom she has never met and came to know about only after the scandal broke. Read: Waiguru was behind NYS deals - Josephine Kabura Also read: Waiguru threatens to expose authors of Kabura's NYS1 affidavit 