Fifteen couples got a chance to get married without worrying about wedding expenses so they can live happily ever after. This was made possible through a drive called ‘Punguza Zinaa Campaign’, which was meant to reduce cases of fornication in Mombasa county. The campaign is the initiative of Lubnan Nassir, an activist who ensures she does her all so that the less fortunate people get a chance to live a better life. Nassir said that if two people love each other, then they should be joined together legally and enjoy life together. Cash problems for organising a wedding ceremony should not make couples live together without being married. The campaign idea came up when she organised to have Eid celebrations with street families on August 24. “We managed to get three couples who wanted to get married — three Muslims and one Christian,” Nassir said. Right after uniting them, she was followed by some people who also wanted to be united but had no means. Her helping to unite the three couples gave hope to others, as she later on received calls from different people for help so they could also be united in marriage. This made her organise a mass wedding, which took place on September 29. The wedding involved street families, less fortunate people and orphans. She got the chance to unite 15 couples. Asked what next, she said: “I do not want the campaign to die, as it would be a great benefit to many.” She says that the campaign was not only meant to join the couples together but to see that they have a better future in their marriage. To make sure the couples do not regret getting married, she will ensure she follows up on how the couples are faring. The campaign also aims to look for an Islamic leader, if there are those who converted into Islam, to make sure the couples are educated and have knowledge on what Islam is all about. “I also plan to hire experts in marriage counselling so that they can be educated on how to live a good life in marriage, and also ensure the ladies get knowledge on how to be good wives and hopefully good mothers,” she said. Also, she will make sure that she gets councilors to educate them on how they will start and improve their businesses. Nassir plans to make this campaign a big success by ensuring that those people who are ready to get married and are not able to do that get registered and a date is planned for them for the wedding.  NO SUPPORT FROM LEADERS The major problem Nassir faces to make sure her campaign is a big success is funding. Before the 15-couple mass wedding, she had sent letters of invitations to different political leaders to help her fund the occasion, but none replied to her letters. Some only promised that they would hold her hand but when the day for the wedding was near, they all went silent and their phones went unanswered. “No political leader came to my aid. I sent letters to them on the budget for the wedding but no one helped. Only the senator managed to donate 10 cartons of water and I am great full,” she said. The budget for the wedding cost her close to Sh200,000: from renting bridal gowns to getting kanzus for the grooms, make-up for the ladies and ensuring they look even more beautiful by applying henna and piko, just how a Coastal woman bride is supposed to look. It has been difficult raising so much cash, but she is grateful that the event ended up a success. She only hopes that leaders can support her campaign and many people would get married legally, and cases of having sex before marriage would reduce. She, therefore, hopes that the campaign will not just die with the 15-couple mass wedding but will be everlasting.