Knut yesterday accused the TSC of using diversionary tactics to evade discussions on teacher promotions. The talks ended prematurely on Wednesday in Naivasha after the Teachers Service Commission turned down demands by Knut to revoke the transfer of 85 teachers who are union officials. Knut said the transfer of the teachers outside their elective areas is in breach of Article 41 of the Constitution, the Labour Relations Act and the Recognition Agreement as it strips them of their representation. “It came as a surprise that on the third day of the retreat when we had planned to discuss promotion of teachers, the TSC raised the fact that the issue of delocalized officials of the union was not on the agenda,” Secretary General Wilson Sossion said yesterday. He spoke at the Sawela Lodge where TSC and Knut are on a five-day retreat that ends today. Read: Knut dismisses TSC claims that it honoured reconciliation meeting The retreat was triggered by the need to address issues raised by Knut in the course of the implementation of the 2017-2021 CBA. They are teacher promotion, transfers, appraisals and career progression. Sossion said it is a right for teachers who are union officials to be retained in their areas of representation and accused TSC of acting in bad faith by transferring the 85 union officials. He said the commission was setting a very bad precedent to the operations and survival of the union. But on Wednesday, TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said in a statement the commission had already agreed to release all the 111 teachers who are Knut executive secretaries to work full time for the union. She termed the move an “act of magnanimity to promote cordial industrial relations between TSC and Knut”. This means the teachers can still execute their union roles within their areas of representation even when records at TSC show they have been transferred to other stations. Macharia said teacher transfers are guided by the Constitution, the TSC Act, and Code of Regulations for teachers and the CBA. See: Knut, TSC hold retreat in Naivasha to avert strike Click here for the latest political news