Payments by insurance firms to agents dropped by Sh370 million to Sh5.51 billion for the period ending June, 2018, according to data from the Insurance Regulatory Authority. The report further shows that re-insurers equally cut agents payments by Sh120 million over the same period. This is despite a 3.1 per cent growth in gross premiums to Sh112.39 billion for general insurance business. Gross premiums received under the re-insurance business class however declined by 5.1 per cent to Sh9.61 billion during the review period. Although it is unclear whether there has been a shift in the fact that policy-holders may now be acquiring and paying for insurance covers directly to insurance firms, the downturn in commissions paid, directly affects insurance agents. Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya chairman Nelson Omolo said that while brokers collect premiums on behalf of the firm allowing them to deduct commissions before remitting them to the underwriter, agents’ business is directly remitted to the insurance firm. This means agents have to wait for the firms to pay them commissions. “On some occasions, the policy-holder will remit premiums directly to the underwriters then we have to get the commission from the firm but this is not a major issue with brokers,” Omolo said. Bima Intermediaries Association of Kenya chairman Washington Ndegea told the Star that he is currently dealing with a number of cases where agents have not been rewarded commissions for business brought to the underwriters. “Only last week I had one of our members who had not been paid commissions worth Sh2.6 million which had been delayed for six months,” he said. “There is laxity in the payment of commissions especially when the insurers are dealing with agents.” Data by the regulator shows insurance firms incurred losses amounting to Sh2.67 billion during the period, a 203.6 per cent drop when compared to the same period last year when losses stood at Sh879.13 million. “The industry’s trend of underwriting results has experienced continued decline over the last three years,” the report stated. Claims incurred during the review period increased by two per cent to Sh29.21 billion while direct expenses including commissions and staff welfare expenses, salaries, publicity and advertising, legal fees and stationery amounted to Sh18.17 billion.