Starring: Cedric the Entertainer, Max
Greenfield, Sheaun McKinney, Tichina Arnold, Beth Behrs Genre: Comedy Premier: October 1  Those of us who grew up in the ’90s
would remember a South African show that aired on KBC called Suburban Bliss. This show was a comedic
take on the changes that were happening in South Africa post-Apartheid. A black family could finally move out of
the townships and into the suburbs, living next door to white folks as their
equals. Whilst the show took on a comedic tone, the plot still highlighted the
imminent challenges of having a nation of all races that was equal. The Neighbourhood is a lot like Suburban Bliss. When Dave Johnson moves his family from
the mid-West to South California, the best house he could afford is in a
predominately black neighbourhood. This doesn’t sit well with Dave’s neighbour
Calvin Butler. Calvin is a proud black man, who lives
in his little ‘black bubble’ because of his issues with white America. But when
the Johnsons move next door to him, Calvin is forced to address his issues with
having white neighbours every day. Although Calvin and Dave are good
people, they must deal with issues of cultural differences, stereotypes and
race relations. Whilst the men are busy dealing with their issues, the women
take no time in liking each other. Calvin’s wife Gemma and Dave’s wife Tina
bond over wine and wigs. Calvin’s issues with his sons are also addressed.
Especially his older son Malcolm, who still lives at home and has no job. While people may react to this show as a
crass representation of life as we know it today, the fact remains that racial
topics always make people uncomfortable. And much like Suburban Bliss, this
show acts as a humorous reflection of the world we live in today. The show has great potential to grow
into the next big thing. It just needs a little more laughter. Which is not a
hard task to accomplish, considering the show’s diverse cast of comedic actors,
like the legendary Cedric the Entertainer, Tichina Arnold (Everybody Hates
Chris), Max Greenfield (New Girl) and Beth Behrs (2 Broke Girls).  Star rating: 4/5