The National Environment Management Authority has summoned directors of Ederman Property, which owns a flat marked for demolition in Nyayo Highrise. The directors are expected to appear before Nema today. On Friday, they were served with a notice to demolish the building in 14 days. The agency said the building was found to have encroached on Nairobi Dam embankment. The 12-storey building has 260 houses. “Remove the building on Nairobi Dam riparian reserve within 14 days,” the notice issued by Water Resources Management Authority through Nema says. Warma also directed the building’s owner to restore the riparian reserve to its original state within 90 days. The law prohibits anyone from erecting, reconstructing, placing, altering, extending, removing or demolishing any structure or part of a structure in or under the river, lake or wetland. It is also illegal to drill, excavate, tunnel or disturb the river, lake or wetland. The building was marked for demolition as the Nairobi regeneration team makes another move to clear structures on wetlands. Taj Mall, Southend Mall, Nakumatt Ukay, Java House and Shell Petrol Station in Kileleshwa are among buildings that have been demolished. Yesterday, most tenants at the Nyayo Highrise building stayed indoors as they contemplate their next move. “We have been instructed not to allow reporters in. The management is set to hold a meeting with tenants,” a guard told the Star. About 4,000 buildings have been earmarked for demolition in the regeneration programme, which seeks to restore Nairobi River. The team was appointed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in December last year. It was tasked with cleaning and reclaiming Nairobi River. The scenic river’s path has been invaded by dumping and unscrupulous developers. In May, the team identified over 600 pollution points along the stream and acknowledged the urgency of a clean-up. Most of the buildings have been put up on riparian reserves. The government is drafting a bill to tighten protection of wetlands. The Environmental Management and Co-ordination (Conservation and Management of Wetlands) Amendment Regulations, 2018 have undergone reviews. “We want to ban human activities within 30 metres of a river and lakeshores and 60 metres from the Indian Ocean shoreline,” Nema head of wetlands Stephen Katua said. Kenya Wetlands International programme manager Julie Mulonga said there are many other problems plaguing the ecosystems of wetlands. Some are natural. “The current overload of wetlands threatens the country’s water security. This is why laws have to be reviewed,” Mulonga said. Wetlands International has been supporting the review of the National Wetlands Regulations since April last year. Wetlands occur where water meets land. They include mangroves, peatlands and marshes, rivers, lakes, deltas, floodplains, flooded forests, rice fields, and even coral reefs. They act as natural safeguards against storm and flood disasters. They also protect communities vulnerable to floods, droughts and storm surges. The wetlands are being degraded by other human activities, including mining and dredging. These activities have been attributed to the increase in disasters such as floods and droughts. TIME BOMB The draft regulations are ready to be presented to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko who will present them to the Cabinet for approval. Upon approval, the bill will be taken to the National Assembly for debate. In April, MPs said contradictory laws were to blame for the wanton destruction of wetlands in Nairobi. The MPs also said the mandate of Nema was overstretched, making it easy for private developers to circumvent the law. The Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Natural Resources said food and water security has been threatened by encroachment of wetlands. “We’re sitting on a time bomb. Something must be done,” Kasipul Kabondo MP Charles Were said. He spoke when Environment Chief Administrative Secretary Mohamed Elmi appeared before the Kareke Mbiuki-led committee at County Hall. In June, the team toured waterways and was alarmed by the extent of encroachment. It identified Limuru Road, Lang’ata Road, Arboretum Road, Spring Valley, Globe Cinema Roundabout, Riverside Drive, Westlands, Parklands, Fuata Nyayo estate in South B, Village Market, Gem Suites in Riverside and Alina Villas in Spring Valley as among the areas with developments sitting on river banks.