Wrangles persist in the Kisumu county assembly as MCAs have said they will not work with speaker Onyango Oloo. But the speaker has said he will not be threatened by impeachment motions. MCAs have accused Oloo of mismanaging the assembly, with some saying the conflict within the house is about money. On Tuesday, there was a gun drama in the assembly involving sergeant-at-arms George Amayo and MCAs. Amayo shot in the air to chase away MCAs who were baying for his blood.The incident happened after the assembly had adjourned the session and members were holding a meeting. They accused Oloo of dictatorship and divisive leadership. Majority leader Kenneth Onyango termed the adjournment unprocedural, saying there was no motion moved. Onyango accused Oloo of not supporting the governor’s manifesto. “The house must be run by rules and regulations and not like someone’s kiok,” he said. Chief Whip Gard Olima alleged Oloo was sponsoring hooliganism against MCAs. “The speaker has done a lot of ills in the assembly and we have resolved as MCAs not to work with him again because he is hell-bent on mismanaging the assembly by bringing ‘intruders’ and ‘eliminating members’,” he said Olima said MCAs “gave him time to change, but it has borne no fruit”. He said MCAs would not transact any business with Oloo and Amayo in the House. However, Oloo defended the adjournment of sessions, saying there was no business in the Order Paper to transact. He said the decision was reached during the House Business Committee meeting convened last week. Oloo said the committee agreed to suspend the sittings for three days until today to allow members attend an investment conference for the Lake Region Economic Bloc in Bomet county. He accused some MCAs of a plot to pocket double allowances both for the assembly sittings and the conference. “This was a case where some people wanted double enrichment but I want to assure the people of Kisumu that I will not allow this to happen under my watch. Let worse come to worse, but I will hold on to the last minute, stand steadfast and defend the assembly coffers,” Oloo said. chaos “They are always accusing me of mismanaging the assembly. How am I doing that or can they give their reason?” Oloo said the MCAs want someone in office who can “easily get them cash from the coffers”. Last week, a motion was tabled to remove assembly liaison chairman Roy Samo over claims of laxity in discharging his duties. The MCAs accused Samo of violating the Standing Orders while presiding over sittings. The liaison chairman had earlier presided over deliberations on the motion to impeach Oloo, which degenerated into chaos. The motion came days after Nyalenda B MCA Joseph Olale brought the house into a standstill as he shouted at temporary speaker Samo. Olale accused Oloo of edging out some members of the Speakers’ Panel from chairing the session. The panel includes speaker Oloo, Caren Muga (nominated), Victor Rodgers (Migosi) and Erick Agolla (South West Kisumu). Muga, while giving a personal statement in the assembly, complained of being mistreated in the panel. She said she was not given a fair opportunity to chair assembly chamber debates.