The hearing of the NYS case relating to the loss of Sh231 million hit a snag yesterday after the prosecution introduced money laundering charges and evidence leading to an adjournment. Former PS Lillian Omollo and her co-accused appeared before chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti for the hearing. But the prosecution consolidated four files and withdrew charges against eight accused persons. State counsel Joseph Riungu told the court that after reviewing the files, they had decided to withdraw charges against them. Five of them will be state witnesses. The court heard that the prosecution does not have evidence against eight accused persons. Those discharged are Rodgers Nzioka, Sammy Michuki, Josephat Njoroge, Stephen Muchai, Clara Mbau, Christopher Malala and Simon Kanyi and Lucas Otieno. The five prospective state witnsses are Nzioka, Kanyi, Otieno, Njoroge and Muchai, who have been converted to prosecution witnesses. They will testify against Omollo and the other accused persons. The charges have been withdrawn under Section 87A of the CPC, which means if police find further evidence against them, they might be arrested. Read: NYS suspect Lillian Omollo sacked as PS, replaced by Francis Owino Further, the DPP consolidated four files into one file that has 82 counts. Three new charges of money laundering were included. Ann Ngirita, Phyllis Ngirita, Lucy Ngirita denied all the three fresh counts of money laundering. It is alleged they engaged in an arrangement for the transfer of more than Sh74 million, while knowing the money was proceeds of crime stolen from the NYS. Omollo, Richard Ndubai and the other 35 accused persons all denied the consolidated charges. The charges include abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption and willful failure to comply with procedures and guidelines relating to management of public funds. Lawyer Cliff Ombeta asked for an adjournment. He said the prosecution had “ambushed” them with the new evidence and charges and he needed to take new instructions from his clients. He said the defence needed time to consult. Riungu said that during pretrial, the court allowed them to include any new additional evidence and that’s why they had amended the charge sheets. He told the court he has several witness statements to supply to the defence, including five witness statements from accused persons who had earlier been discharged. The prosecution says they have several expert witnesses from Treasury, who will testify. Three officials from KCB, Equity and National Bank have been lined up to testify. Read:NYS boss Richard Ndubai, three senior officials arrested over Sh9bn scandal Magistrate Ogoti allowed the adjournment. He warned the prosecution against bringing up issues that will lead to any adjournment. He ordered them to produce the remaining evidence and witness statements in court today at 11am and supply them to all the defence lawyers. The case will resume tomorrow, when the prosecution is expected to make its opening remarks.  Click here for the latest political news