A 12-year-old Kenyan girl was on Tuesday crowned the “Little Miss World 2018 Grand Prix” winner at the 18th International Children’s Festival of Culture, Fashion and Arts held in Thessalonika, Greece. Tyra Angel Odeny was among 47 participants from 20 countries who participated in the international festival held between September 24 and 30. Apart from the gold exclusive crown, Tyra was also awarded 500 Euros (Sh58,500) for scooping the main title at the cultural event. Kantapat Rochanasmith,12, from Thailand won the “Little Mister World 2018 Grand Prix” title in the category that was open to participants aged between 10 and 12 years. The main theme of the festival - Smile to the world - was incomparably embodied by the participants in creating the author's art suits, which were demonstrated on the stage at the Royal Theatre of the five star Grand Hotel Palace. Participants competed in "International Talent" and "International Model", as well as the "Golden Laurel" Olympiad of Stage Arts. The winners were chosen in four age groups: "Tiny Miss/Mister: 4-6 years, Mini Miss/Mister (7-9 years), Little Miss/Mister (10-12 years) and Teen Miss/Mister (13-17 years). Silver crowns in the nominations "Little Miss United World International Talent 2018 Silver Prix" and "Little Mister United World International Talent 2018 Silver Prix" went to eleven-year-old Ileana Paula Both from Romania and nine-year-old Dmitriy Kafedjis from Uzbekistan. Silver crowns in the nominations "Little Miss United World Model 2018 Silver Prix" and "Little Mister United World International Model 2018 Silver Prix" were awarded to eleven-year-old Vietnamese Alexandra Toni Matheson and eleven-year-old Liviu Andrei Lupascu from Romania. Twelve year-old Estonian Annalisa Keskula won the nomination "Little Miss Kindness 2018" in the presentation of social projects "Diary of Good Deeds". She received a gift certificate for the amount of 250 Euros. Honorary title "Little Miss Olympic World 2018" was awarded to the seven-year-old Jancer Galea from Malta. Grand Prix of the Olympics of the stage arts "Golden Laurel 2018" was awarded to Alexandros Krilov from Greece. “We wholeheartedly congratulate all the winners and wish your dreams come true. Smile to the world and the world will smile at you! See all at the festival "Little Miss & Little Mister United World 2019", the organizing committee and partners of the festival said. Click here for the latest political news