Hello, we are Absa. We know you've heard about us, our name has been floating around for a few months now and chances are you are curious maybe even intrigued. May we Introduce ourselves? First thing you need to know about us is that we are brave and passionate. How brave you ask. Well, It would be so easy to tell you about about the awards we have won (they are many), the accolades we have received (we should keep them in the vault - they're precious) from the banking industry and our clients; but there's time for that later. For now, all you need to know is that we are among the largest banks in Africa with a global reach that is outstanding. And because Africa is home, we have a formidable presence in 12 African countries powered by over 42,000 employees across the continent. It doesn't matter who you are, what your banking needs are or what business you're in - we pride ourselves in fulfilling the needs of our diverse customer and client portfolio daily from Habarone to Cairo, from Moshi to Lusaka and soon in Nairobi - we got you. Africa is a continent Incase you're worried that our wide reach might mean we won't be able to find the solutions that work for you, don't lose a moment's sleep Finding local solutions to uniquely local challenges is what makes us the banking powerhouse that we are. We are  a truly African brand, inspired by the people we serve and determined to always be brave, passionate and ready so that we can make Africa proud. We like to imagine that if Wakanda had a bank, it would be Absa. Our Purpose Why should you get to know us? Simple, purposes is to bring your possibility to life At Absa we believe in possibility, in the actions of people who always find a way to get things done. We believe in creating opportunities for our customers to make their possibilities real and supporting them every step of the way. Didn't I say we are passionate? Might also add that we are "ready". We’re prepared for the unexpected. We’re ready to grow beyond banking and to ensure that we are future fit. Absa is a future-focused organisation, driven by progress and our desire to thrive in the digital age. There's so much we want to tell you, but let's leave it at that for now. This is after all our initial meeting. We are looking forward to helping you get to know us better in the days and months to come. Thank you.  