ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has called for reforms at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission before a referendum can be held. Mudavadi also called on leaders pushing for amendment of the Constitution to provide for genuine debate on what needs to be changed. The former deputy prime minister said those opposed to the referendum have been labelled traitors, yet it has not been agreed what specifically needs to be amended. “It is sheer malice. I hold strong views against the referendum because there are many people with vested interests in the push,” Mudavadi said during an interview on KTN News on Friday night. He said questions about electoral reforms were yet to be addressed and genuine national dialogue to arrive at a consensus has not taken place. “There are preconditions for a referendum. We have an IEBC that is in tatters yet we want it to preside over the vote,” Mudavadi said. He urged Kenyans to reject the IEBC as currently constituted from carrying out a boundary review or oversseing a referendum, saying it is a set-up for failure. “The IEBC is an outfit that exists only in name. It lost its credibility a long time ago,” the ANC leader said. He said those who earlier pushed for electoral justice have suddenly gone mute, “as if by magic, electoral injustice was wiped out”. The former Sabatia MP said most politicians shouting about the referendum are driven by selfish interests and do not want Kenyans to debate what is to be amended. The former minister said Kenyans must ask for a reduction in the number of counties, constituencies and wards because there is overrepresentation. He said he cannot be gagged on questioning the motives of those pushing for constitutional amendments. He said debate is needed to arrive at a consensus on contentious issues. A national audit on the implementation of the Constitution should be conducted to isolate issues for debate and inclusion in the referendum questions, Mudavadi said. He said piecemeal amendments will spell disaster. “We have been there before. The mutilation of the Independence constitution was caused by such amendments which later proved vexatious. It took us more than 20 years to get a new Constitution,” Mudavadi said. Mudavadi accused politicians of denying Kenyans the opportunity to choose issues for debate and instead peddling slogans. He said transitional clauses were never implemented to strengthen devolution and gender parity. For instance, the provincial administration is still intact an, health, agriculture, roads and water are yet to be fully devolved, he said.