Sustainable Development Goal number 10 talks of reducing inequality within and among countries and with a target to empower and promote the social, economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status by 2030. Is this possible? In our own little way, it is possible. This week, champions of equity converge in Nairobi, Kwale and Uasin Gishu counties to have conversations on how equitable we are and propose how to share our resources in a fair manner today and in years to come. As a public finance practitioner, there are two things that draw me to this amazing group of champions as we deliberate how to tackle inequalities in Kenya. First, it’s the conversation on the Equalisation Fund: Article 204 of the Constitution establishes a fund that is allocated 0.5 per cent of all the revenue collected by the national government each year. This is calculated based on the latest amount of revenue collected by government, which is audited and the audit approved by Parliament. This year, 2018-19, the amount allocated to the fund is Sh4.7 billion. The Constitution requires that these funds are supposed to only provide basic services including water, roads, health facilities and electricity to marginalised areas to the extent necessary to bring the quality of those services in those areas to the level generally enjoyed by the rest of the nation, so far as possible. The Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) has been a great champion of equity. This year it identified 1,424 sublocations as being the most marginalised, representing 20 per cent of all sublocations, which account for more than five million Kenyans. By identifying the sublocation as the unit of measuring marginalisation, CRA has completely realigned our thinking of how to identify service needs and allocation of resources. This was also a significant change from using counties as the unit of measuring marginalisation. The constitutional identification of an area in Article 204 does not in any way identify counties as the basis of service delivery and thus we should not limit our thinking and decisions on reducing inequalities. Secondly, it’s the increasing debt versus the GDP scenario. While this part of my excitement and pain will not be featured in the equity conversation as a topic on its own, it is important to understand that whatever resources we are proposing to discuss during the Equity Week will be greatly affected by the accumulating debt. According to the Constitution, counties are entitled to receive a minimum of 15 per cent equitable share of revenue based on the recent audited and approved accounts of ordinary revenue after national obligations have been settled. These national obligations which are directly charged from the consolidated fund include debt, international organisation subscriptions and pensions. Debt conversation then becomes very important mainly for two major reasons, the effect on equitable share due to counties and inter-generational equity. The higher the debt repayment, the lower the equitable share will be to counties as the country has to honour debt obligation first from the ordinary revenue collected. On inter-generational equity, the future generations incur a burden on an investment that they will find functional and because of a debt incurred by a past generation. For example, the standard gauge railway loan was Sh323 billion from Exim Bank of China and will be paid in two tranches of 20 years and 10 years. This indicates that there are future generations who must bear the loan burden for an effective transport system. However, the critical questions that we need to ask are whether we are getting value for the debts that we are incurring or whether we are just loading debts on future generations while fattening the pockets of tenderpreneurs. In conclusion, while we are heavily investing in addressing marginalisation and reducing inequalities, we need to be careful lest the debt we are incurring as a country potentially takes us back to where we are coming from if not monitored. Then we would not be in position to achieve SDG number 10 . Public Finance practitioner and CEO, Institute of Public Finance Kenya jmuraguri@ipfkenya.or.ke     