There's nothing personal between me and the President, Ugandan pop star turned politician Robert Kyagulanyi has said. "... that is the feeling I get when we meet. In fact, I shake his hand respectfully as the President of Uganda," he said on NTV's Side Bar on Tuesday night. "I would hate to reduce this fight to just me and President Yoweri Museveni. This is about more than us and the conversation should go beyond to include all Ugandans." Kyagulanyi, popularly known as Bobi Wine, said If the democracy one speaks of, is one where you get beaten for campaigning then that is 'democrazy'. "I was just enjoying myself, making music and lots of money. One day I was brutally beaten up for driving an expensive car. This opened my eyes to the oppression," he said. "I started singing about it. I later decided to go beyond singing and doing something about it. I am here and I am alive, that is what matters. I choose to focus on that." Bobi said freedom comes to those who fight but not to those who cry, adding that "Uganda has slowly degenerated into a military state". "The more you continue to cry the more your people continue to die, so arise and fight for your rights," he said. Noting that he promised not to be a slave in his own homeland, Bobi said Ugandans should fight oppression with all it takes. "Stand up and speak up, it is constitutionally guaranteed. We must be dignified and respected. Our future must be guaranteed as well," he said. "I wish this would be the furthest I would push this, I even wish we did not have to get this far, but I promised myself that I would never be a slave...as long as I still feel injustice, I will fight it as long as I live." But Bobi said his family has lived in constant fear of attacks from the government. "My family fears the worst every day. It is hard, but they understand that what I am doing is right, that I have to do what I have to do," he said. "Every day God blesses me with another day. I live each day as if it's my last."  HUMBLED BY KENYANS Bobi said he was happy with Kenyans who stood up for him while he was in detention. On August 23, chants filled the air as some Nairobi residents protested the arrest of Bobi. Dressed in Red T-shirts and blouses, the youths who showed solidarity with their Ugandan counterparts, said Museveni must release Bobi unconditionally. Details: [VIDEO] Say no to torture! Nairobians chant in solidarity with Bobi Wine "When I left detention and saw all the tweets from Kenyans I was humbled. Humbled that our neighbours had their eyes on us," Bobi said. He said Kenya and Uganda are their brothers' keepers. "We will keep our eyes on Kenyans too," Bobi said. When he arrived at Entebbe International Airport from the United States, police escorted him into a vehicle and whisked him to Kampala where his whereabouts were unknown for some time. He had received treatment in the US for injuries which he said were sustained during torture by security forces last month. He was unable to stand after being beaten while in detention. The government has denied mistreating Bobi and promised to investigate the claims. Bobi's arrest in August sparked anti-government demonstrations. More on this: Museveni faces backlash over Bobi Wine arrests Also read: US, UK issue travel warnings against Uganda over Bobi Wine protests Click here for the latest political news