Baringo North residents are demanding back a rare bird species called martial eagle that was taken to Naivasha for treatment two years ago. The baby martial eagle found at Releng hot-spring in Bartolimo location fell from a tree and was rushed for treatment in Naivasha by an unnamed man from Naivasha Game Reserve. “Since then we have never set eye to our bird. I guess someone somewhere is currently doing business with it and reaping millions out of it,” Saimo-Kipsaraman ward MCA John Aengwo said. He was backed by Kapteberewo location chief Isaac Chemjor and over 100 residents. James Chelekwel a resident said after the baby eagle was pushed down by another Martial eagle it fell down from a tree injuring its wings at Kitibei village in 2016. “It is their nature when two are being hatched one feeds faster and gets stronger than the other, so in the process of competing for prey the weaker one has to be pushed down,” North Rift tourism coordinator William Kimosop said. The bird is one of the largest and most powerful species of eagles that preys on monkeys, rock hyraxes and small antelopes. Herders then reported it and later on a man from Naivasha Game Reserve alongside the county tourism team took it, saying they were going to treat it. “The bird’s mother was domesticated after killing and feasting on our goats so we thought it was time we needed to use it to attract tourists and reap revenue out of it” Chelekwel said. The residents had to feed it with a quarter kilogram of goat meat every day for two weeks before the experts took it away. However Kimosop refutes the claims, saying the bird is not lost. “The Eagle was taken for treatment and surely it is in safe custody. Once a suitable place has been set at Releng hot spring then the bird shall be returned,” he said. Residents say it is now two years and they haven’t heard from the handlers. “We don’t know how it is fairing and we suspect someone is currently reaping millions of money out of it. We are planning soon to go and see it,” Chelekwel said. The eagle is among rare species at unexplored ancient Releng hot spring where the residents have decided to rehabilitate and make it the second tourism site in Baringo North after the famous Lake Kamnarok. “It is the same way we lost our sixmillion-year-old Arrorin Tuggeninsis fossil at Kipsaraman to an intruder over 10 years ago. We fear this eagle may go the same way” Aengwo said. Kimosop says besides the martial eagle and hot spring, the place qualifies to as a geo-tourism destination as recommended by Unesco.