After helping Nakumatt retain their top flight status, Joe Waithira is back at Wazito FC. According to a statement posted on their website, Waithira is among four players returning to the side following their relegation to the National Super League. Waithira scored twice as Nakumatt beat Ushuru 2-0in the second leg of the promotion play off. Anthony Gathu and Dennis Gicheru also returned after guiding KCB to the Kenya Premier League as was Kennedy Ayako. The three were part of the squad that met last weekend for the team’s first meeting, setting out the ambitious plan to return to the Kenya Premier League, according to the statement. Wazito’s new coach Muhammed Ahmed was pleased with their return. “I just them to be very focused and have their confidence back. Idon’t like to draw. I don’t like losing. I like winning in a beautiful way,” said the coach who replaced KCB-bound Frank Ouna. They started their training yesterday as they seek an immediate return to the top flight in 2020. “It is a good feeling. The atmosphere is fantastic and I am looking forward to winning games and trophies with this young and homely club,” Gathu said. Gicheru said he likes the stability at the management of the club, a key consideration for the lawyer who will soon be enrolling for his Kenya Law School classes. Meanwhile, Sportpesa Shield Cup quarter-finalists Riverplate FC started their Chapa Dimba campaign on a winning note after they thrashed Maraba Elites 3-1 in an entertaining match at Masinde Muliro University, Kakamega County. Riverplate, who are making a second appearance in Chapa Dimba, proved the better side right from the word go with an organised and well-coordinated free-flowing football that saw their attacking midfielder David Munyobi pull a magnificent save from a hawk-eyed Maraba Elite shot-stopper. However, Munyobi returned in the 15th minute with a looping shot after being put through by Fabian Achevi. At the stroke of half time, Roykin Shihenzi doubled the lead after a lovely combination with Hudy Indenje that tore Maraba defence into shreds. After the break, Maraba, who looked more settled and composed on the ball, produced a spirited fight and their efforts bore fruits in the 54th minute after Caleb Amisi halved the deficit with a long-range strike. Riverplate responded immediately as Hudy Indenje wrapped up the scores.