MPs have been asked to make laws that promote growth of business as corruption, over borrowing and how to reduce government expenditure dominated the speaker’s round-table talks with Kepsa in Kwale. Kepsa CEO Carole Kariuki on Friday said lawmakers have the mandate to sustain the country’s economy through formulation of favourable policies. Kariuki said illicit trade, influx of imports, high cost of housing and delayed payment to suppliers have slowed down growth. “Legislators need to formulate policies that ensure a balanced and fair deal to all development partners to facilitate growth of the business sector,” Kariuki said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi asked the private sector to liaise with MPs to revive the business sector. He said MPs were critical to development. MPs have been asked to make laws that promote growth of business as corruption, over borrowing and how to reduce government expenditure dominated the speaker's round-table talks with Kepsa. Kepsa CEO Carole Kariuki on Friday said lawmakers have the mandate to sustain the country's economy through formulation of favourable policies. Kariuki said illicit trade, influx of imports, high cost of housing and delayed payment to suppliers have slowed down growth. "Legislators need to formulate policies that ensure a balanced and fair deal to all development partners to facilitate growth of the business sector," Kariuki said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi asked the private sector to liaise with MPs to revive the business sector. "Legislators are the key stakeholders in economic development engage with the private sector has come on a critical point of Kenya social-economic and revenue enumeration will come. Muturi said the private sector is crucial in national development urging MPs to ensure they support the endeavours of the sector for the country to go far. "During the forums, roles of the National Assembly in ensuring the big four agendas are achieved will clearly come out. Our legislators will also familiarize themselves with laws that will change our economy as a country and attract more investors, " said Muturi. On his part, Chairman of the Finance and National planning committee Joseph Limo suggested that there is need to have robust laws that will seal the loopholes in government expenditure. Chairman of the house's budget committee Kimani Ichungwa said legislators can highly affect the growth of the economy as they can add or omit a policy that can bring marvelous change in a country's development. "The National Assembly has the mandate to interrogate the figures presented by various departments on the business sector, " he said. Click here for the latest political news  