There have been many revolutions in the world, most
notably since the French Revolution, which was a period of far-reaching social
and political upheaval in France and its colonies. The Revolution overthrew the
monarchy, established a republic, catalyzed violent periods of political
turmoil, and finally culminated in a dictatorship under Napoleon. Inspired by
liberal and radical ideas, the Revolution profoundly altered the course of
modern history, triggering the global decline of absolute monarchies, while
replacing them with republics and liberal democracies. In political science, a revolution is a fundamental and
relatively sudden change in political power and political organisation, which
occurs when the population revolts against the government, typically due to
perceived oppression. That’s, at least, one way of defining a revolution in the
political context. However, most people would ordinarily associate a revolution
with violent overthrow of a government by revolutionaries who succeed in mass
mobilisation of the population. Was Mau Mau a revolution? Hardly. It was more of a rebel
movement than a revolution, but the effort did reach the same outcome for the
country — forcing the existing government out of power and ushering in a new
political power structure and one that gave more rights to the natives than they
previously had. The Age of Revolution refers to the period from
approximately 1774 to 1849, in which a number of significant revolutionary
movements occurred in many parts of Europe and the Americas, including the American
Revolution, the French Revolution, the Irish Rebellion of 1798, the Haitian
Revolution, the revolt of slaves in Latin America, the First Italian War of
Independence and the independence movements of Spanish and Portuguese colonies
in Latin America. Not since have we had any major revolution to speak of because
the elements that made revolutions possible ceased to be or, conversely, those
in power against whom such revolution may be directed have come to perfect
their methods of power preservation to render it difficult, if not altogether
impossible. Rather, what we have had over the years and decades are a
number of failed revolutionary efforts, save for the decade of the 80s and
early 90s, in which is a series of mini-revolutions occurred in various countries,
including our own, where saw the repeal of Section 2A and reintroduction of
multipartyism, which eventually led to the constitutional reforms and
ultimately some semblance democracy we currently have. The world also witnessed during this latter period what in
Iran was dubbed as the White Revolution, where the then Shah Mohammad Reza
implemented in 1963 a series of reforms that lasted until 1979. These included land
reforma, sale of some state-owned factories to finance the land reforms,
construction of an expanded road, rail, and air network, a number of dam and
irrigation projects, the eradication of diseases such as malaria, the
encouragement and support of industrial growth and enfranchisement of women/ Others included the nationalisation of forests and
pastures, formation of literacy and health corps for rural isolated areas, and
institution of profit sharing schemes for workers in industry. The White Revolution represented an attempt to introduce
reform from above and preserve traditional power patterns. Through land reform,
the essence of the White Revolution, the Shah hoped to ally himself with the
peasantry in the countryside and hoped to sever their ties with the aristocracy
in the city. Ironically, however, the White Revolution led in part to
the Shah’s downfall. But there’s something to learn. We need our own White Revolution engineered by Uhuru Kenyatta
and Raila Odinga with the objectives being endearing themselves to the public,
ridding the government of hardcore, backward operatives deeply entrenched who
have held the country hostage for decades, ditto making life miserable for
corrupt cartels and helping usher in fresh constitutional amendments to give
our country a rebirth.  Samuel Omwenga is
a legal analyst and political commentator in the United States 