The Director of Public Prosecutions will not charge Machakos governor Alfred Mutua over the alleged irregular purchase of 16 vehicles for the county government. This brings to an end allegations and protracted court battles pitting him against the state. Claims of financial impropriety and abuse of office have hung around the county chief’s neck since 2015. At one time, some MCAs and residents urged the EACC and the DPP to arrest him, complaining police were at his beck and call. Mutua was accused of single-sourcing and overpricing the cars. But he argued that he helped the county by using Sh35 million, not the Sh140 million that had been allocated for the project. The governor told the court his arrest and prosecution would be unlawful and his right to hold office would likely be infringed. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption commission and the DPP have undertaken not to institute a criminal case against him. They say the same charges were the subject of another suit in which all the accused persons were acquitted last November. The case was decided in a Machakos court. The EACC and the DPP recorded consent in court. It was presented and signed before appellate judges Roselyn Nambuye, Otieno Odek and Asike Makhandia. “This appeal, which was in relation to allegations of irregular purchase of 15 Subaru outback vehicles and one Toyota Land Cruiser vehicle by the Machakos county government, is marked as withdrawn,” the consent read. It was alleged that Mutua flouted procurement laws when he purchased pre-owned Subaru Outback vehicles for the county executive committee members without competitive bidding. The DPP and the EACC wanted Mutua charged after they receiveda complaint from former Machakos senator Johnson Muthama. Mutua then filed a case at the High Court seeking to stop his prosecution, but it was dismissed. The court gave the agencies the leeway to charge him. Mutua immediately filed an appeal in October 2016, which has now been overtaken by events because of the latest development.