Benson Masubo alias Wazir Chacha - the man accused of extorting money from MPs, now says he had sexual relations with two lawmakers and not 13 as claimed. The 24-year-old blamed politics for the leaked photos of him with some female MPs. However, he affirmed his connections in Parliament. The lad told the Star in an interview on Monday that it was his character that made the MPs 'fall for him'. "I did not force them in whatever way to have an affair with me." Asked why he was dating two MPs at the same time Chacha said, "One relationship was in ICU and I sought an alternative." "I loved the MPs because they are mature and understanding. They don't have any pressure like the slay queens (younger girls)." Chacha said he does not regret in any way having had sexual affairs with the two MPs. "Before I started dating them, they had confirmed they were not married but single and ready for an affair." Chacha came to the lime light in April after he was accused of defrauding MPs by sending them nude photos. But he later denied the claims and accused Murang'a woman MP Sabina Chege of trying to fix him. Read: [VIDEO] I'm innocent, Sabina Chege trying to fix me - Wazir Chacha Chacha described himself as a hardworking youth who has accumulated millions on his good reputation. "It was my grooming and character that attracted them my way," he said adding that he even presented expensive gifts to the two MPs during their birthdays. "I have no problem dating any woman aged between 18 and 47 years. But I prefer those in their 40's because they know what a real relationship is." Chacha said it was regrettable that a friend of his leaked the photos and videos with an aim of tarnishing the reputation of a certain politician. "Life has never been the same. I am still digesting on the events that happened but I am positive that this will come to pass," he said. Chacha's extortion case is due for mention in November. "I don't want to comment on the matter but I can confirm good progress has been made." "I remain positive that things will work out in my favor. If not, prisons are made for men and I will have to adjust to my fate," he said. Read: Chacha denies conning MPs out of cash, waits bail hearing Chacha says he now runs a charity organisation - Humanitarian Charity, that is focusing on girl child education. He accused the media of having blown his case out of context adding that the issue tainted his reputation. "People have believed that I am a conman yet many people can attest that I am person of commendable character." The lad said after he deferred his studies at Manchester University due to a brain tumor, came back to Kenya in 2013 and worked at the Devolution ministry until 2015. He said he wanted to vie as the MP for Kuria West constituency but due to health complications, he opted to suspend the plan to 2022. Also read: Why focus on sex, Millie Odhiambo asks media on Wazir Chacha case Click here for the latest political stories