Title: Tha Carter V Artist: Lil Wayne Genre: Hip Hop Release: September 28  Lil Wayne might be the most significant rapper in 2018 with the supportive reception of his long-awaited album, “Tha Carter V”, first hinted to be released in 2014. As it stands, whatever caused the delay might have actually helped boost Lil Wayne’s career. First week reports indicate tremendous streaming and chart success, something he might not have achieved if the album had dropped as intially scheduled. We might never know what the initial album’s concept was like, but it doesn’t matter anymore, cause “Tha Carter V” is finally here! Tunechi’s 12th studio album introduces itself with “I Love You Dwayne”, an unfeigned message from the rapper’s mother Jacida Carter.  The first song on the album, “Don’t Cry”, featuring the late XXXTENTACION, addresses various difficult moments the rapper has been through. Lil Wayne has been a great influence on contemporary hip hop music, and he acknowledges this on “Dedicate”, which at the very end samples President Barak Obama’s speech. Known for creative phases, Weezy maintains his stunning form on “Uproar” before he recruits Travis Scott’s autotuned vocals on “Let It Fly.”  On “Can’t Be Broken,” the rapper highlights achievements that can’t be taken away from him. Nicki Minaj joins him on “Dark Side of the Moon”, a track that expresses they will both be there for their partners, even when things get hard. It’s hard to leave out Kendrick Lamar, who delivers an impressive verse on the eighth track, “Mona Lisa”, before Sosamann, Reginae Carter and Snoop Dogg offer their brilliance on “What About Me,” “Famous” and “Dope Niggaz” respectively. Wayne brags about his lifestyle and achievements on “Hittas” and goes ahead to address things in his life that might destroy his life on “Demon”. Also featured on the 23-track album is Ashanti, Nivea and long-time collaborator  Mack Maine. In one hour and slightly under 30 minutes, we get to experience Lil Wayne lend power and worth to his name and to hip hop music. His return is an extensive effort, which continues his journey as one of the greatest rappers to ever do it. The album might not be his greatest project ever, but it’s a brilliant return, one we had not foreseen. Long live Wayne.  Star Rating: 3 out of 5 