The Finance Bill was assented to by the President on September 21, making into law provisions increasing Excise Duty on voice, SMS and data services from 10 to 15 per cent, in addition to the 16 per cent Value Added Tax applicable to all goods and services. As mobile and data service providers were announcing the increase in prices in line with the Act earlier last week, Parliament was passing a motion declaring youth unemployment a national disaster. The youth, persons under 40, make up the majority of the population and are the largest demographic accessing the internet today. They therefore are likely to be the most affected by the increased data prices. The higher prices mean fewer people can afford to use the internet. Studies have shown that even as the digital revolution steams on, women in developing countries have been left offline in what has become a glaring digital gender divide. The women have fewer resources and limited access to and less disposable income. They also face cultural and social barriers to mobile phone ownership and usage and, consequently, access to the internet. High data charges will only make it even harder for the women to get online. Marginalised communities and people living in remote geographical areas already face challenges in accessing the internet as a result of sparse and unreliable infrastructure. Their socioeconomic status is another challenge yet they need the internet to access services and information, including educational materials, as well as innovation opportunities. Access to the internet has become fundamental to the exercise of constitutional rights and is embedded in our day-to-day lives, providing a means of sourcing for and exchange of information at the tap of a button. We have increasingly seen the role technology and internet access have played over the last few years in people’s participation in development and governance and in the exercise of the freedom of expression. Freedom of expression entails the right to seek, receive or impart information or ideas, artistic creativity and academic research. The internet has largely provided a means through which such rights are exercised. The internet is arguably the largest and most important source of information. Denial of opportunities to access information online has an impact on various aspects of life, including digital literacy, the right to education, innovation development, online business opportunities, promotion of women and girls’ rights — especially in marginalised areas — and promotion of the rights of people living with disability. The internet also allows people to exercise their freedom of association online. Access to essential government services is currently heavily reliant on access to the internet with most having been digitised. The right to internet access is therefore derivable from these basic constitutionally guaranteed rights and fundamental freedoms. In view of this, in 2016 the UN passed a non-binding resolution affirming the importance of the internet in exercising various human rights and encouraging states to take measures towards universal access to the internet, including bridging the gender digital divide. The government has expressed the desire to facilitate internet access to all citizens through the National ICT Policy, 2016. The policy’s objective is to improve livelihoods by ensuring the availability of accessible, efficient, reliable, affordable and secure ICT services. Its guiding principles include upholding the Constitution, specifically in respect to essential values and human rights — equality, freedom, democracy and social justice. The government falls short, however, on fulfilment of these proposals, especially in light of legislation that hinders the progression and implementation of measures to promote well distributed internet services and access. The higher data charges as a result of increased taxes mean fewer and fewer people can afford to access the internet and fails to meet the objectives of the National ICT Policy.