To some extent it may be that
people’s expectations of the Constitution have not, or only partially, met. Our
Constitution has often been regarded, here and abroad, as one of the most, if
not the most, progressive in the world. The enthusiasm with which it was first
received is fast evaporating. Raila Odinga, a major architect of the
Constitution, is clearly disillusioned and wishes to install the parliamentary
system, as well as deeper and more effective form of devolution — positions he
took at Bomas, but seems to have abandoned after the 2007 debacle (even though
the constitution then was the Moi constitution, which everyone wanted to escape
from). The current Constitution, after the advice of Kofi Annan and his team of
Eminent African Personalities, is largely based on the Bomas draft — except for
a few features, the main ones being the system of government (reverting to
presidentialism) and devolution. We are now back to debating reform
of the reformed Constitution.  The Star’s leader of last Wednesday had this
headline: “Parliamentary system has many advantages”.   Advantages, it suggested, could include shifting
the focus away from ethnicity to social issues (though the explanation is not
fully convincing — at least in the small space allowed for this discussion). The Standard
, on the same day, headlined its leader: “Kibaki case shows that a new
Constitution doesn’t cure ills”— referring to the then President’s abuse of his
office to gain favours for his nephew and niece for graduate studies in
Australia, which should have gone to children of the poor and deprived, and
despite the Constitution’s prohibition of conflicts of interest. What do we make of it? Yash Ghai was
reminded of a question put to him by a distinguished South African scholar some
years ago: “You people borrowed significantly from our Constitution [this is
quite true] but you constantly ignore it”. Yash answered, “Yes, but you had
Mandela and other freedom fighters, we have Kibaki and other self-serving followers
of Jomo in control of the Constitution”.  Somewhat later Jomo Kenyatta’s presidential
son now claims to be converted to the Constitution — and thus renouncing his
father’s policy and practice. Is he serious, and if so, will he succeed — in
the face of numerous colleagues and their friends who are deeply embedded in
corruption, and no doubt planning to succeed to the presidency?  THEMES AND MOTIVES One theme of the current debate is
really about who will hold particular offices. Who will be the next President?
Or who might be able to continue in office as a Prime Minister if not a
President? This is not new: Arguable that is precisely why we have the
presidential system rather than a parliamentary system. Generally people who worry about
these things are the politicians themselves. It is generally politicians who
argue for a change in the election date from August to December. But not, of
course for earlier elections! A second theme is about expense.
Various citizens have decided that the constitution is too expensive (too many
MPs, including women county members, too many governors and MCAs). Some
politicians have leaped onto this bandwagon, though one wonders whether, if it
came to the crunch, they would vote to limit their own numbers  - any more than turkeys would vote for
Christmas. Thirdly, there are people who are
thinking about how we can improve governance, get better policies, and more
accountability.  These tend to be
scholars, lawyers, and members of NGOs. However, Raila, and Kisumu governor and
scholar Peter Anyang’ Nyong’o, have argued for a major structural change —
changing the present system of government, the presidency, to the parliamentary
system. They have provided thoughtful reasons for this change, including
changing the nature of the government from one person government to a more democratic
collective system. Raila has also advocated another change, in the system of
devolution: From two tiers to three, with the major devolution policy being
made in one of 12 to 14 second tier, with administration largely at the third
tier. Both of Raila’s preferences figured in the “Bomas” draft of 2004, and in
the Committee of Experts first draft of 2009. Altogether, the proposals include
the self-interested, the knee-jerk, the thoughtful and indeed the regressive
and the opportunistic.  NEED FOR RESEARCH AND REFLECTION We are in desperate need of the
thoughtful approach — what we might call a principled approach. There are
people who are genuinely trying to assess how well the Constitution has worked,
and whether change is needed. What is working or not working? First we need to understand what
“working” means. How was a particular institution intended to work and what
were the purposes in setting it up? If it is not working like that, is it
because of the way the Constitution is drafted, or some other reason? And if
the latter, would changing what the Constitution says make any difference, or
would the same sorts of interests that have thwarted the current provisions
operate to defeat new ones? No doubt we would save some money if
we had fewer MPs. And fewer MCAs. And no senators. But cost alone is not the
central issue. If there would be costs of a different kind in abolishing an
institution or posts, we should think twice — or more. If we did not have the
Senate, would devolution be even more at risk from the government and
Parliament, for example?  If MPs are very
worried about expense, they could save a good deal of money themselves (like
avoiding trips to watch sporting events and “retreats” to places that
“necessitate” per diems). Some people complain of too many
commissions. But all the work they do must be done by
somebody.  And there are many other bodies (we usually call them
parastatals) that exist or are still being created and which establish more
jobs and spend more money. Nor do the complainers study the purposes of these,
independent, commissions. A considerable part of the structure
and remuneration of the state is not dictated by the Constitution. People who
manage them, including the President, effectively make their own choices — driven
as Uhuru has shown, by political expediency. Among the thoughtful projects is one
by a team of civil society scholars and practitioners reviewing the extent of
the implementation and impact of the Constitution, organised by Katiba Institute.
The aim is to get a broad picture of the working and impact of different
institutions. To be published shortly, the sections contain a careful analysis
of the background to various aspects of the Constitution and how far the
consequent reforms have borne fruit — and why or why not. There is particular interest in the
degree to which state institutions, particularly the Executive, the Legislature
and the Judiciary have followed and respected the Constitution. They do not
have personal or institutional interests, other than that the values and goals
of the Constitution are achieved.  THE COSTS OF CHANGE If you are under 25 or so, you will
easily remember the effort that went into getting the current Constitution.  The consultation, the education and the
debate. There is a lot of talk of a referendum. But by itself a referendum is a
very weak instrument for public involvement. We need that consultation, the
education and debate. It needs time. Constitutional reform is also
expensive. All sorts of things might have to be changed. Someone should
estimate the cost of abolishing a county, for example. Reform
is also risky. Risky because, first, things may not work
as people hoped (in the same way as the Constitution being changed worked
differently). Second, while “they” are changing the bad things, they may change
good things too.  You might like to think
about what bits of the Constitution you really like. Who might want to change
them? Can you be sure that if a process of constitutional change beings you
might not actually lose the bits you like rather than getting rid of the bits
you don’t?  Authors are directors of Katiba
Institute