Kenya’s Harambee Starlets have been handed a tough Pool ‘B’ in the African women’s Cup of Nation set for November 17 to December 1 in Accra, Ghana. Kenya have been pitted against defending champions Nigeria, three time participants South Africa and Zambia. Starlets made it to the continentals after Equatorial Guinea, who had eliminated them on 3-2 aggregate in the final qualification round played in June, were disqualified by Caf for fielding ineligible players. The Kenyan girls will make a second consecutive appearance at the women’s championship after making their debut in 2016 in Cameroon, where they lost all their Group ‘B’ matches. Kenya have an uphil task of overpowering Nigeria, who slapped them with 4-0 loss in last edition’s preliminary match. South Africa, who lost 1-0 to Nigeria in the semis, also pose a challenge for the David Ouma’s charges. Nigeria will be making their 13th appearance in the finals while it will be the 12th appearance for South Africa. Zambia will be featuring in the competition for the seventh time. Starlets played Zambia in a friendly match in May, where a Corazone Aquino’s double and Mwanahalima Adam goal inspired them to a comfortable 3-0 win at the Arthur Davies Stadium in Kitwe. The victory was a perfect revenge for Starlets after bowing 4-2 in post-match penalties to Zambia in last year’s Cosafa third playoff, where Kenya were invitees.Coincidentally, they open their Africa Cup of Nations campaign against the Zambian team. With Football Kenya Federation openly admitting of their inability to mobilise funds for national team assignments, head coach Ouma will hope that the government will remedy the situation on time for adequate preparations. Kenya will be targeting to finish as group winners or runners up to guarantee them a place in the semis. Pool ‘A’ is comprised of hosts Ghana, Mali, Cameroon and Algeria. The winner of the eight-team tournament and the best two runners up will represent Africa in the 2019 Fifa Women’s World Cup slated for June 7 to July 7 in France.