Football Kenya Federation (FKF) President Nick Mwendwa has appealed for a financial support of Sh18 million from the national government and well-wishers ahead of the 2019 African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Ethiopia on October 10 and 14. The federation had tabled a Sh25 million budget to the Ministry of Sports but the Rashid Echesa-led docket could only afford a paltry Sh7.3 million, leaving the crucial trip to Addis Ababa and the return match to Nairobi in limbo. The dry coffers at the federation engineered by the absence of a sponsor has seen the availability of players who ply their trades abroad remain uncertain for the matches and worse still, head coach Sebastien Migne has served them with a notice to have his three month salary dues paid before October 15. It is the final puzzle which have seen Mwendwa unreservedly reach out directly to Treasury and well-wishers to aid the national team fly out to Ethiopia on October 10 before hosting the Walia Antelopes in Nairobi three days later. Mwendwa said the federation has exhausted all their resources following their matches against Ghana and Malawi. He said they had requested Sh19 million from the Ministry of Sports but only Sh4 million was debited to their accounts. While funding national team assignments remains a government’s responsibility as enshrined in the new Sports Act, the financial debacle is viewed as an unwelcome distraction, which could derail the national team’s dream of returning to the continental stage after 14 years in the cold. Kenya need seven points out of a possible 12 to qualify for the 2019 tournament in Cameroon. “We appeal for financial support to honor the two matches which are of great importance to us in our qualification for AFCON. We have a huge deficit from the budget which we had tabled to the ministry and we humbly request Treasury and well-wishers to bail us out. We tabled our budget for the matches on August 18 and we want to acknowledge the support the ministry gave us and has been giving us in the past. We still have debts for last month’s assignments although not with the players but suppliers and Sports Kenya that’s why we are on our knees looking for support. Booking tickets for overseas-based players and other logistics is expensive but I wish to remind the government that the team showed the 2019 dream is valid by beating Ghana and I hope they will support us.” The financial hurdles have seen the national team fail to check into a residential camp for the past two days of training. The team is set to leave for Addis Ababa over the weekend while Migne leaves today. They are expected back on Thursday morning where they will launch their preparations for the return leg. The federation boss who had come under sharp criticism spending Fifa grants to purchase an Outside Broadcasting (OB) van at the expense of other priorities explained why they went for the latter. He said: “When you apply for funds from Fifa you clearly state how you will spend it for the purposes of auditing. We arrived at going for the van since our former broadcast partners did not leave us with footage or photos for the national team and it was wise to broadcast our matches as well as make profits by lending it to local clubs. Spending the money on anything else apart from what we had quoted to Fifa would have seen us blacklisted.”