Siblings Norah Jeruto and Daisy Jepkemei have promised take their rivalry to next level as they seek to book tickets for next year’s World Cross Country Championships in Denmark. Speaking after running away with the top two places in the women’s senior race at 28th edition of University of Eldoret Cross country at the university’s pavilion, the two said the global event will determine who is best among them. During Saturday’s race, Jeruto, a former world youth 2,000m steeplechase champion edged out her younger sister Chepkemei to second place. However, Chepkemei has promised to avenge the defeat in their next local meeting as the clock ticks towards the global bonanza next year in March. Jeruto, a former Commonwealth Youth Games champion, said she has warned her sister prior to the race but Jepkemei seemed not to take her seriously. “I told her to brace up for a long day but she did not listen. She argued that It was too soon for me to pull any results barely a week after placing third in Ndalat Gaa cross country,” said the Africa 3,000m steeplechase champion. In quick response, Jepkemei, said this was the last time she will allow her sister to beat her, be it on track or cross country. Jeruto clocked 33:43.9 to win the race ahead of Chepkemei, who returned 34:03.3. Daisy Kimeli completed the podium in 34:34.0. Josephat Kipchichir clocked 30:19.4 to win senior men’s race. He said his long term goal is to make the national team to the world x-country championships. Franklin Ngelel (30:24.8) and Joshua Kiplagat (30:27.3) followed in the second and third places respectively. Bravin Kogei clocked 24:21.2 to win the junior men’s race. He said he ran under a lot of pressure as his elder brother Rhonex Kipruto, who is also a top runner, warned him not to return home if he loses. Gideon Kipng’etich (24:25.1) and Solomon Boit (24:25.9) completed the podium. Kogei trains under coach Brother Connel O’Colm in Iten. Dorcas Jepchirchir defended her 6km title which she won last year. Salome Kipruto (21:43.7) and Gladys Chepkirui (21:47.9) placed second and third respectively.