Five SportPesa Premier League clubs will be hoping to avoid the last route to their survival, the play-offs, as the top flight league enters the final leg this weekend. Posta Rangers, Vihiga United, Chemelil Sugar, Nakumatt and Nzoia Sugar have less than three points separating them and risk being subjected to a two-legged play-off against the third pladed National Super league side, whose season ends next weekend. With Thika United and Wazito already relegated, focus shifts to the five where a third from bottom Rangers are set to play Kakamega Homeboyz who are ninth with 43points at Mumias Sports Complex. Rangers have 37 points and will be hoping for a win and a unwelcome result for any of the other four teams to safeguard their place. Nakumatt (15th) and Vihiga United (12th) face a must-win situation when they clash at Ruaraka grounds. Nakumatt have 37 points while Vihiga have 38 and should the two teams share spoils and Rangers fall then they will be assured of top flight football next season. Should Vihiga and Rangers win, then Nakumatt will have to battle it out in the playoff. Similary a win for Nakumatt, Rangers and Nzoia Sugar will see Vihiga go for the playoff. Nzoia Sugar (14th) with 38 points play a limping AFC Leopards who are sixth on the table with 51 points at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. The Sugar Millers may survive on goal difference grounds regardless of their result against Leopards should Rangers and Nakumatt register barren draws or less goals in their matches. Nzoia have a goal difference of -5 while Rangers and Nakumatt have an identical -10 goal deficit. 13th-placed Chemelil Sugar will have a busy afternoon in taming Golden Boot contender Erick Kapaito when they accost Kariobangi Sharks at Camp Toyoyo. Kapaito jointly leads the charts with Jacques Tuyisenge and Elvis Rupia with 15 goals and Chemelil will have a tough task of preventing the former FC Talanta man from spoiling their survival quest. Chemelil will be looking to get a straight win to confirm their place or should they pick a point they will bank on a negative result for Nzoia and Rangers or a draw between Vihiga and Nakumatt. In other matches, champions Gor Mahia close the season with a clash against 2016 champions Tusker at Thika Stadium while 2009 winners Sofapaka play Zoo Kericho at Kericho Green Stadium. Former champions Mathare United and Ulinzi Stars will clash at Kasarani Stadium while 2006 champions Sony Sugar host an already relegated debutant Wazito at Awendo Green Stadium. Runners up Bandari take on relegated Thika United at Mbaraki Stadium.