Police have arrested a 26-year-old woman suspected to have killed her husband in Eldoret. Melissa Muhindi is believed to have stabbed Geoffrey Matsheshe to death on Friday night. She was found with the body in a sack at about 2am within Kamukunji estate. Suspicious neighbours intercepted a boda boda she had hired to ferry the body to a dumpsite. “Members of the public confronted the motorbike and found the body in the sack. They detained the woman until police arrived,” Eldoret West police boss Zachary Bitok said. The boda boda rider escaped, leaving behind the motorcycle. The woman was to be taken to court yesterday. Bitok said Matsheshe, 35, was a newspaper vendor in Eldoret town. His dismembered body was taken to the mortuary. Bitok said police were looking for the rider. He said they have contacted the National Transport and Safety Authority to establish the owner of the motorcycle used in transporting the body. The motorbike is held at the Eldoret Central police station. “We suspect the woman and the boda boda rider were involved in the killing and were heading to dump the body at an unknown place,” Bitok said. Police are also interrogating the woman to establish the motive behind the killing. Detectives visited the woman’s house on Saturday as investigations began. Neighbours said the couple quarreled frequently. The cause of the constant quarells remains unknown althogh others alluded to a fierce tussle over control of family property. The neighbours said they heard a commotion shortly before the motorcycle arrived. They heard dogs barking as the man wailed. Matsheshe’s nephew Owen Andove said the couple got married in 2011. “I lived with my uncle for sometime and the wife often threatened to kill him. She had recently said the he will die before January next year,” Andove told reporters at the home. Colleagues in Eldoret town said they had not seen Matsheshe for two days before recieving the shocking news of his death on Saturday. Bitok said they would ask the court to allow them to detain the suspect for more days to wrap up investigations into the murder.