AN MP from the Eastern region could not hide his joy at the impending exit of Halake Waqo from the helm of the Ethics and Ant-Corruption Commission. The legislator was overheard at a hotel within Nairobi’s CBD celebrating that at last the man was leaving office. He went on to tell his colleagues how he had long fought with Waqo over a corruption case that he is currently facing in court. The man said he attempted in vain to befriend Waqo. Waqo’s term is due to end this month and while some have criticised him for frustrating the war against corruption, others laud him for his performance. ***** How is traffic managed in Nairobi? Claims have surfaced of those controlling traffic at roundabouts and junctions in Nairobi county manipulating the flow unfairly. Yesterday, police manning the busy Nyayo House roundabout kept pedestrians, among them expectant mothers, for almost 20 minutes. One of them was trying to tell the officers to stop vehicles and give pedestrians a turn to cross. Of late it has become a concern to motorists how police managing traffic at times favour one side of the road for more than 20 minutes as vehicles pile up in other directions. Could the Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett restore equality on roads please. ***** A senior immigration official with State House links is a disturbed man. The officer who hails from Northern Kenya is among a cartel that was busted for issuing immigration documents irregularly. Recently, the officer controversially gave Kenyan passports to two aliens who didn’t have the prerequisite documents for non-Kenyans to be issued passports. It is alleged that the official, working in cahoots with another accomplice at Nyayo House, has perfected the irregularities such that it takes fewer days for aliens to obtain passports. Sleuths from the National Intelligence Service who have been on his case and he could soon face prosecution. ***** Staff from a certain parastatal went into wild celebration recently when news from the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions flowed in that a former senior staffer will be charged with misappropriation and mismanagement of public funds at his former office. A source within the parastatal has told Corridors that he was paying for the sins he committed when he was the managing director at the institution. “He was full of himself and behaved like a small god. He walked like he was untouchable and finally our prayers are being answered,’ the source said. ***** Click here for
the latest political news