National team were brought down to earth in devastating fashion as they surrendered to Serbia in straight sets of 25-16, 25-9, 25-8 in their second Pool ‘D’ match at the Hamamatsu Arena, Japan yesterday. The East Africans will now face Puerto Rico today in their third match as they seek to be among the top four finishers, a development that will guarantee them a chance to the second round. The two sides head into this match with one win and one loss each, with Puerto Rico, who are placed 13 in the FIVB rankings, having beaten Kazakhstan  3-0 ( 25-21,25-15,25-22 ) as well as a 3-0( 25-27,25-12,25-7 ) loss to former champions Brazil. Japheth Munala’s side, who are 33rd in the world, beat the Kazakhas in straight sets of 3-0 ( 25-23,25-22,25-21 ) in their first ever world championships win. Munala retained the squad that did duty for the Country with a win against Kazakhstan parading captain Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi, Triza Atuka, Edith Wisa, Violet Makuto, Jane Wacu and libero Elizabeth Wanyama. Munala later gave debuts to Lorraine Chebet and Sharon Chepchumba some minutes of the court to cap a glorious moment for the upstarts, who have been instrumental for their teams this term. Moim for the second time led Kenya with seven points in the loss having emerged the top scorer on Saturday with 24 points. Jovana Stevanovic sparked for Serbia in the victory with nine points. The first set featured poor serving by both teams. Time and again, serves flew long or straight into the net. Serbia took charge and pulled ahead 16-10 at the second TTO on a spike by Milena Rasic and rolled to grab the set 25-16. Serbia again set the pace in the second set, racing out to an 8-4 lead at the first TTO following a service ace by Tijana Malesevic. Serbia’s wing spikers blasted away at the Kenya defence, which was unable to repel the constant attacks. Munala said: “We knew Serbia was good. The first set we played OK and then started going down in the second set. In the third set I had to change the players because they were getting tired for no good reason.” Meanwhile, there was panic at the championships after Typhoon Trami hit Hamamatsu City. Team manager David Kilundo said: “The dreaded typhoon has just begun... Streets are deserted. Strong winds accompanied by rains have now started. We are now  being rushed to the hotel...”