Two people were killed on Sunday in fresh banditry attacks along the border of Baringo and Turkana counties. Ruto Lomerisia and Kanyaria Domokamar were shot dead. Two other people were injured during the attacks at Ameyan market in Kapedo. “The cause of the raid was not immediately ascertained but we suspect it to be a planned retaliatory attack,” Akoret assistant county commissioner Wycliffe Ochola said yesterday. He said herdsmen were driving livestock for sale at the Ameyan market when they were ambushed by bandits from Turkana. “There was a fierce exchange of fire. Herder Cheplengin Domokamar was injured alongside an unidentified Turkana resident,” Ochola said. The two were rushed to Baringo Referral Hospital in Kabarnet and Kapedo Hospital in Turkana county respectively. The bandits were repulsed by KDF soldiers based at Chesitet camp, AP, regular and National Police Reservists. Tension remained high on the border yesterday with residents saying they were in fear of retaliatory attacks. “The killing comes barely three weeks after bandits set fire on grass along the border of Solar and Kasarani areaa,” Kapaw chief Sadam Kalale said. The attack came just a day after Baringo leaders urged residents to shun cattle rustling for peace among Turkana, Pokot, Tugen and Ilchamus communities. The leaders spoke during Mashujaa Day celebrations at Michuki Grounds in Chemolingot. Governor Stanley Kiptis led the celebrations which were attended by MPs William Kamket (Tiaty), William Cheptumo (Baringo North), Charles Kamuren (Baringo South) and Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruitot. More than 20 people have been killed in cross border attacks in Kapedo since January. In May, seven people, including school children, were killed by bandits at Chesitet in Tiaty subcounty. They were ambushed in their vehicle while heading to Kapedo. In March, 80-year-old Lonyangatepa Lo’kyateta was shot dead by bandits at Ameyan market. In April last year, bandits killed six people in the same area. Three were injured.