The use of bar soap to wash hands in public places will be banned in Trans Nzoia county on concerns it can transmit germs. The county public health officer Norbert Musundi said on Tuesday that the department is preparing a communication that will ban the use of the detergent. “Research has shown that bar soap can transmit germs when many people use it at the same time. A lot of infections are being transmitted through the use of bar soap,” he said. He instead urged residents to use liquid soap in washing their hands under running water, advising those who cannot afford liquid soap to opt for ash which is germicidal and acts like soap. Musundi said washing hands after visiting the latrines, changing baby’s nappies or any other activity can reduce the incidence of disease attack by 80 percent. “Most of these common disease attacks like typhoid and diarreahea occur as a result of poor personal hygiene and there is a need to be extra cautious as a county, “ said Musundi. He said the county has made tremendous steps in ensuring that proper hygiene standards are maintained. The officer said Unicef through its Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) program is helping to improve sanitation facilities in the county with hand washing being one of the focus areas. Unicef is building modern toilets in targeted primary schools, water points and hand washing taps. “The government is also replicating the same principle through the Community Total Led Sanitation (CLTS) to improve sanitation in rural areas so that as children get best sanitation facilities in schools they also find the same at home,” he said. The department has drafted the Environmental Health and Sanitation Bill and the Community Health Workers Bill to address challenges in public health and sanitation. Musundi said the bills have adopted the practices in Ghana where for a person to marry or take a child to school they must show proof of owning a toilet at home. The government intends to declare the county open defecation free by 2020. Musundi said they will be start with about 500 villages by December this year so that they can undergo the process of being declared open defecation free. Two villages of  Forest  in Kwanza subcounty and Webanania village in Endebess subcounty have already received certification of being open defecation free.