Legendary South African reggae artist Lucky Dube (pictured) said in one of his hit songs that crime does not pay. This reality seems to have hit home for some three photojournalists. The three have confessed to have allegedly been used in a plot to alter nude photos and besmirch Kakamega senator Cleopa Malala. Well, while they came so close to feasting on some quick cash, the Media Council is said to be closing down on them to eclipse their hopes of earning a living as scribes for their shameful actions. Sources whispered to Corridors that the council is considering revoking their accreditation as photojournalists. It’s the accreditation card that opens gates to all official functions, including presidential. Woe unto those who abuse their talent. Is there a tussle between the office of the Parliamentary Service Commission Secretary /CEO, who doubles up as the Senate clerk, and the new PSC commissioners? Sources whispered to Corridors that some commissioners are clandestinely trying to influence the recruitment of tens of staff that has been pending. Parliament has spent heavily on the interviews which have been put on hold for almost a year, but the eerie genie of corruption seems to be hovering over the people’s representatives. It was renowned novelist Agatha Christie who remarked that for everything you love, you have to pay some price. Well, some polygamous Western Kenya politician is paying for love, literally. After parting ways with his wife, the man was forced to go for a fat loan to reclaim his love. He is said to have borrowed Sh50 million, part of which he used to buy the disgruntled wife a big car. But after a few days, he is now said to be broke. The wife is alleged to have eloped with another tycoon. It’s not clear how long the rekindled fire will last. The price men pay for love! Earlier this week, we told you of claims that some corrupt, overly wealthy, heads of accounting and procurement surprised many by passing the vetting process ordered by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Well, some people are now pointing fingers at a senior official at the Treasury for having helped some officers to regain their jobs. In fact, they say, the Treasury boss should himself be vetted because he can’t pass muster. The individual is whispered to have helped, among others, a lady who was at the heart of some scandal that rocked the Jubilee administration a while back. The Treasury official has in the past been accused of hiring his personal assistant to a very senior and sensitive position in government. Does CS Henry Rotich know who is sitting around him? Click here for the latest political news