Northeastern politicians plan to convene public forums so residents can give their views on the proposed referendum. On Saturday, they said they will not blindly support the calls for law change. The region’s interests must be considered if they support constitutional amendments, they said in Modogashe, Lagdera. They spoke during homecoming party for newly appointed Botswana High Commissioner Mohamed Shidiye. “We’re aware of schemes by proponents of the referendum to reduce the number of constituencies and merge some counties in Northeastern. As the patron of the pastoralists’ parliamentary group, I’ll be at the forefront scuttling any attempt to reduce our representation,” Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said. The National Assembly Majority leader said they will not allow anybody to hold them hostage. “This time round, we are smart and prepared to lead our people,” Duale said. He said devolution has transformed northern Kenya and they will resist attempts to reduce the number of counties, constituencies and wards. Those present included Garissa senator Yusuf Haji, Garissa governor Ali Korane, MPs Mohamed Hire (Lagdera), Abdi Mude (Lafey), Rashid Kassim (Wajir East) and Fatuma Gedi (Wajir woman rep). Korane said they have benefitted significantly from the 2010 Constitution. They had suffered years of marginalisation and will only back a vote if it strengthens the devolved units, he said. Mude warned that it is too early to think of changing the Constitution. “We’ll not be party to a referendum whose agenda is geared to 2022 politics. We’ll only lend support if it’s about changing the lives of our people who are still grappling with myriad challenges,” he said. Haji, who chairs the Building Bridges Initiative, said the committee will travel round the country to seek views on governance structures best suited to Kenya. He urged Kenyans to turn up in large numbers for public participation forums, saying their input will be included in the report on their nine-point agenda.