Governors want 30 per cent of natural resources proceeds allocated to host communities. This is part of the demands by governors in the referendum when they meet on Thursday next week at the CoG offices. The county chiefs want the national government to allocate more funds to devolved units since they hold vital dockets in the economy. “It is time we sort our economic politics once and for all. Economic independence will put Kenya on the next pedestal of economic emancipation,” Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria said. Iria spoke on Wednesday after he delivered a letter to the IEBC to demand a referendum. In a campaign called ‘Rasilimali initiative’, governors want the 14 devolved functions to be well supported by both skills and cash. They include health, environment, agriculture, markets, fisheries and control of pornography. Others are disaster management, animal control and welfare, county planning and development. The county chiefs say the devolved functions are key to the growth of the economy and will make President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Big Four Agenda a reality if well supported by the national government. “Under the Rasilimali campaign, the 47 governors will meet next Thursday in Nairobi at our headquarters to work on finer details. We will also make public their demands,” an Ukambani governor told the Star yesterday. fixed percentage Governors said the allocation of more funds to the counties and communities will avert conflicts between the national and county governments. “An amendment to this Constitution may be proposed by a popular initiative signed by at least one million registered voters. A popular initiative for an amendment to this Constitution may be in the form of a general suggestion or a formulated draft Bill,” says Article 257. The governors want Article 72 inserted into the Constitution to define the roles and benefits of counties and communities in the management of natural resources within their jurisdictions. He also wants all regions and communities to retain a fixed percentage of income from natural resources extracted from their regions. They include minerals, natural gas, petroleum, forest resources, wildlife resources and fisheries. He added that natural resources benefit sharing shall apply with respect to the natural resources exploited. “The reasons and objects of the natural resource benefit sharing will promote transparency, accountability and inclusivity,” he said. It will ensure revenue maximisation, adequacy, efficiency and equity. 