MPs in unprecedented move visited ladies lavatories at Parliament buildings as they try to ascertain claims by a member that she overheard colleagues confessing being bribed. Speaker Justin Muturi led over 10 MPs to two ladies washrooms to corroborate claims by Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba that she heard voices testifying how they were given money by Wajir Woman representative Fatuma Gedi to vote against the sugar report. Gedi has so far denied the claims. According to Wamuchomba, the voices admitted to receiving between Sh 20,000 and Sh30,000 to vote against the sugar report. The members of the Privileges and Powers Committee were to visit the washrooms last week, an exercise that was shelved last minute under unclear circumstances. On Tuesday, some minutes past 10 am, Muturi led the team to the fact-finding mission whose outcome will either dent or give weight to Wamuchomba’s evidence to the Committee. Sergeant-at-arms kept Journalists at bay during the visit which lasted almost 10 minutes, the Committee did not address the waiting press. Read: Sugar bribe dished out in toilet – MP Star established that ladies’ washrooms in Parliament are not just your ordinary facility, it has more to offer. As you walk in, you are welcomed to a spacious lobby area fitted with dressing table with full mirror almost round the wall which offers ample space for putting a bag as one does her make-up. Inside the main cubicle, there are two strategic two mirrors on both sides of the sitting bowl and two users in each cubicle can - with ease - talk to each other and even to the person at the lobby as the cubicles are not sound proof. Though the glass sealing the joints in between the cubicles is not sound proof, they provide just enough privacy. Also in the cubicle is ample slab for placing a small handbag besides the usual hanging hook. One toilet houses four such cubicles. The facility also has one cubicle like VIP room that can accommodate two users, this is to cater for persons with special needs and another cubicle fitted with a sink at the door for the Muslim users. Appearing before the Powers Committee last month, Wamuchomba claimed she stood at the toilet lobby when she heard voices from the cubicles making the bribery confession. She however told the Committee chaired by Speaker Muturi that she did not identify them as they went mute and did not come out of the cubicles after hearing her receive a phone call. Wamuchomba accompanied the Privileges team to the toilet to demonstrate the events of the August 30, minutes before the MPs voted against the report. The sugar report had recommended that National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich, EAC Adan Mohammed and former Agriculture CS Willy Bett take personal responsibility for the influx of contraband sugar in the country. The Committee will conclude their inquiries on Tuesday next week and will then proceed to a retreat to write a report before October 25 when the whole house goes for a short recess. Also read: MPs to visit women’s toilet as they probe bribery claims Click here for the latest political news