Nairobi Bus Rapid Transit has stalled for lack of funds. The Sh7 billion project is threatened by lack of money to buy high-capacity buses and build supporting BRT infrastructure. Other problems are delay by the Kenya Bureau of Standards to gazette the specifications for the recommended buses and involvement by middlemen, like matatu owners who feel threatened. A light rail system may come first because tracks are in place. Bus lanes will require land acquisition. President Uhuru Kenyatta gave a one-month ultimatum to the Transport ministry to start putting the bus transit plan into operation. The Star has established that despite public announcements by Transport CS James Macharia and City Hall officials that the government was planning to import 100 high-capacity buses, there is no budgetary allocation. “There are a number of issues but the main one is finance, because without money, there is nothing we can do,” transport executive Mohamed Dagane told the Star in an interview on Thursday last week. The Star has learnt that the President told Macharia that he wants to ride a BRT bus on Jamhuri Day, December 12, from State House to Kasarani stadium for the celebration. “The team is working tirelessly to ensure buses are in the country before Jamhuri Day but the way things are going, I don’t think that will be possible,” a senior officer in the county transport department said. Lask week, CS Macharia said the project will require Sh7 billion, adding that the delay to roll it out was caused by lack of space. the project calls for designated bus lanes, meaning land will have to be acquired. Dagane also said the project has been ‘hijacked’ by middlemen, vehicle manufacturers and private matatu operates who say the new buses will hurt their business. “There are those who feel we want to kick them out of business and hurried to acquire buses that do not meet the specifications,” he said. The buses are supposed to have flat floors without stairs to the doors, the aisles should be wider to allow two or three people to pass at once. “There was also a specific size of the door and number of doors such buses should have. When we talk about BRT, we are talking about capacity, efficiency and time,” he said. Two weeks ago, the county banned two high-capacity buses introduced by Isuzu East Africa on grounds they did not meet specifications by the Transport ministry and the Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority. The government was supposed to import 30 high-capacity buses last June for piloting of the BRT. Lanes were also dedicated for the buses on Thika Superhighway. In total, 100 buses were to be imported by December to revamp public transport and reduce congestion.