If you like to start the day with a bowl of cereal, you could easily be consuming the equivalent of seven cubes of sugar if you're not careful about portion size. A new report, Behind The Label, has revealed that some of us are eating as much as 62g of sugar at breakfast time due to pouring two to three times the recommended portion. Researchers asked a group of Leeds office workers to pour their own cereal over the course of a week with the average bowl weighing in at 73g – more than double the typical 30g guideline. Special K Original was found to be the cereal which participants poured the largest portion size of with the average bowl weighing 93g –  more than three times the recommended portion size. And those who favoured Kellogg's Crunchy Nut poured an average bowl of 78g of cereal, containing 28.5g of sugar - the equivalent of seven cubes. Nutritionist Charlotte Stirling-Reed said: 'The concern with products that are often seen as "healthier alternatives", is they don't always match up to their reputations. 'Additionally, there is a danger that people may consume more of a product if they consider it to be 'healthier'. 'As a nutritionist, I've seen this first hand in weight loss clinics where clients may eat even as much as double a portion size of a product if it's perceived to be healthy.' SPECIAL K Key findings from the report commissioned by wrenkitchens.com reveal that participants helped themselves to an average portion of Special K Original weighing 93g, which is more than three times the recommended portion size. A helping of this size contains 351 calories and 14g of sugar – more an Original Glazed Krispy Kreme doughnut, which contains 12.6g. KELLOGG'S CRUNCHY NUT The average portion size of Crunchy Nut was 78g, more than twice the recommended amount. This put the bowl's sugar content at 28.46g, the equivalent of seven cubes of sugar  and the equivalent of nearly two-and-a-half Original Glazed Krispy Kreme doughnuts. KELLOGG'S CRUNCHY NUT GRANOLA This cereal has the highest sugar content of all with 12 per 45g serving. However, people poured more than double the recommended portion, adding 82g to their bowls. This stacks up to 389 calories and 21.84g of sugar, the equivalent of nearly two Original Glazed Krispy Kreme doughnuts LUCKY CHARMS Lucky Charms had the smallest recommended portion size of any of the cereals in the experiment at 27g. However, participants on average helped themselves to 62g, meaning the average bowl contained 81g of sugar and 251 calories. ALPEN ORIGINAL Alpen Original fans helped themselves to nearly double the recommended portion size, serving 82.5g as opposed to 45g. A serving this large contains 17.4g of sugar and 308 calories - the same as nearly one-and-a-half Original Glazed Krispy Kreme doughnuts. Although some of the sugar within Alpen is naturally occurring within the raisins, sugar is added to the ingredients.