This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, business, events and incidents are the product of the author’s imagination. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, or actual events, is purely coincidental. And the opinions expressed by the characters are wholly their own.  The commission members of the Government Ideas Generation commission arrived for their weekly Thursday meeting in the conference room specifically set aside for this purpose. The air-conditioned room had wood-panelled walls; buffed to shine, and a long mahogany table with nine leather upholstered conference chairs around it. There were only four members in the commission — Dr Akili, PhD dermatology, the commission’s chairman. Mr Mrefu, a tall businessman. Mr Mpana, recently voted out of Parliament. And Ms Mpole, a lawyer by training who always ended up taking the minutes. As you’ve probably guessed dear reader, this commission was set up to generate government ideas. Which they did, every Thursday, but only arriving at what would be discussed after sitting down for the meeting, and not a moment before. Today was no different. ‘Let us change the colour and design of police uniforms,’ proposed Mr Mrefu. The men concurred, but Ms Mpole, in her quiet way asked, ‘Why?’ ‘Why what?’ said Mr Mrefu, confused. ‘Why are we changing police uniforms?’ said Ms Mpole. You see, dear reader, it hadn’t occurred to the male commissioners that there should be a reason, a need, to change the design and colour of police uniforms. But now that Ms Mpole had mentioned it, Mr Mpana saw her point. ‘She’s right,’ said Mr Mpana. ‘We have to make up a reason.’ After a moment’s silence, Dr Akili suggested visibility. ‘That’s a good reason, isn’t it?’ Again, the men concurred. Ms Mpole, though, had her doubts, but she held her tongue. Aren’t the current uniforms visible? she thought. But the meeting had moved on. ‘Who will design them?’ said Mr Mpana. ‘A professional designer,’ said Ms Mpole. ‘We have many international standard designers in the country.’ Mr Mrefu wasn’t having that. In his opinion, the designers Ms Mpole was suggesting were these modern types with funny hairstyles and nose rings and no husbands. ‘Probably lesbians,’ chipped in Mr Mpana. ‘See!’ said Mr Mrefu. ‘And once the film censorship board gets wind that the designer is a lesbian, we’d have calls to ban the new uniforms from display… No, my wife’s cousin can design the uniforms.’ ‘She’s a designer?’ asked the chair. ‘No,’ said Mr Mrefu. ‘She’s a tailor, but she designs uniforms for various organisations.’ Unknown to the rest of the commissioners, ‘various organisations’ meant primary schools, women’s church groups, and small and medium-sized security enterprises. With the matter of the designer settled, the commission moved on to who would make the uniforms. ‘Young People Training Service will make the uniforms,’ said Dr Akili. ‘And it will boost local cotton farming and the apparel industry.’ ‘We have those?’ said Mr Mpana. ‘Not really,’ said Dr Akili, ‘but there must be a few cotton farmers and apparel industries scattered around.’ ‘Will Young People Training Service be able to meet the demand’ said Ms Mpole, ‘of  all those uniforms?’ A solution was at hand. ‘We’ll import the shortfall from China,’ said Mr Mrefu. And with that overhanging probability that the new police uniforms would, for all intents and purposes, be made in China, the chairman of the Government Ideas commission brought the meeting to a close. Design is thinking made visual – Saul Bass.