Makueni residents have accused Kenya Pipeline Company of failing to honour the promises it made following an oil spill in Thange River, Kibwezi, four years ago. Community chairman Kimeu Muindi said the company has not been supplying clean water for the last one month to the people affected by the spillage. The firm was also accused of shortchanging farmers during compensation for livestock and crops lost. "We need fresh medical tests because we suspect people may have been exposed to dangerous chemicals while fetching water from contaminated wells along Thange River," Muindi said. He spoke during a meeting held at Makueni governor Kivutha Kibwana's office in Wote town. KPC Managing Director Joe Sang and other top officials were present. Sang said the company convened the meeting to relook at the matter. Residents complained that some people died of health complications related to the spillage. But Sang said the company is not aware of the claims. He said a task force formed to probe the spillage had stopped updating the company. It comprised members from government urgencies and the county government. It emerged at the meeting that the panel no longer existed. Dr Mathew Matheka, who is in charge of medical services in Makueni and who was part of the task force, said KPC corporate communication manager Jason Nyantino was non-committal on their resolutions. More on this: Keter orders Nema, KPC to clear oil spill Also read: KPC replaces boss after massive spill Related: Nema denies role in hiring of company cleaning up oil spill in Makueni river Makueni senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said the National Environment Management Agency should redeem its image. "This is a change to redeem yourselves because you have been blamed in many cases," Mutula said. Mutula told the agency to come clean on whether it has the capacity to handle the matter or not. "If you are unable, tell us so that we seek intervention from the Energy Cabinet Secretary," Mutula said. Makueni NEMA deputy director Pius Kasusya was hard-pressed to explain why the agency did not share the progress reports for the restoration of the river. He said the matter was being handled at the headquarters in Nairobi. Makueni MP Daniel Maanzo said he will petition the National Assembly to have Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter and KPC boss Sang investigated by the EACC. "Somebody should be in jail because I believe there is criminal liability in the Thange oil spill," he said. Prof Kibwana asked elected leaders to ensure the community does not face more problems because of the spillage. He warned politicians against using the matter to propel themselves into power. Click here for the latest political news