A man in Kabarnet wants justice after he and his wife were detained for three days without trial last week. Naomi was leaving her workplace at 10pm on October 8 when she spotted some officers on patrol ahead of her. “Fearing the unknown, she called me on the phone so I hurriedly got on a boda boda and went to pick her,” her husband Ezekiel Chebii told the Star on Thursday. As the couple was getting on the boda boda, six armed police officers stopped them. They threatened to scatter their brains if they moved an inch, Chebii said. Naomi and Chebii obeyed. The officers kicked Ezekiel’s legs and ordered him to sit. They asked him who Naomi was to him. “‘Today’s the day, everything ends here. We know this is your sister and you are lying to us. So we will lock you up in a cell, then we shall have the pleasure of having sex with her and you will do nothing about it’,” Chebii quoted the officers as saying. They kicked him when he protested that Naomi was his wife. After 20 minutes, the boda boda operator was told to leave and Chebii and Naomi marched one kilometre to Kabarnet police station. Chebii said some of the officers smelled of alcohol and appeared drunk. Naomi denied ever having met any of the officers. Wife’s honour At the police station the officers confiscated Chebii’s phone and Sh500 in his wallet. “They...then pushed me into the cell saying ‘you will rot in there.’I shouted at them, saying I will scream and bring down the roof if they locked me in there without my wife,” he said. Naomi was put in a cell next to Chebii’s and that is how the couple found themselves spending three days in cells from Monday, October 8, to Wednesday, October 10. Naomi lost her job because of her unexplained absence. Chebii said they were not taken to court or allowed to record a statement. His request to be taken to a hospital for diabetes medication was rejected. He said the officers told him he was not in a hospital and should endure his condition. Chebii said the officers on duty kept asking him for a bribe to release them. They were freed. “Afterwards I recorded statement in the same police station over the atrocities and given OB 46/ 8/2018 and OB 14/10/2018 but since then no legal action has been taken against the officers,” he said. Police response However, contacted for comment Baringo Central police boss Philip Wambugu said the case was beyond his capacity. He said Chebii is free to report it to the highest office. “I had told him to calm down and give us time so we may open an inquiry into the matter but if he feels he is in a hurry over it, then he has all my blessings to present it to the highest and independent ranks,” Wambugu said. He said if Chebii happened to take his case to the media, “refer him back to me”. The aggrieved family has urged the Independent Policing Oversight Authority to launch investigations into the matter.