The controversial Finance Act 2018 raises a number of fundamental issues close to the heart of all Kenyans. For one, the main reason for all the taxes it levies on Kenyans is the huge debt the country is in, despite the brave face put on by our leaders. The law seeks to raise close to Sh130 billion to finance the budget, which itself is expected to be slashed by Sh55 billion. Kenya now is set to be in good standing with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) — for yet more new debt — as it battles to raise revenue. This means that the country has to service part of its huge debt from the international market by paying taxes. With a debt of Sh5.3 trillion, Kenya planned to pay at least Sh658.2 billion in 2017-18, which is 40.3 per cent of Sh1.6 trillion revenue targets. Things are likely to get worse before they get better. The Bretton Woods institutions, comprising the IMF and World Bank Group, are known for their love for austerity. Kenyans still remember with dread the Structural Adjustment Programmes (SAPs) of the 1980s. Yet we are pushing for more debt from this group. Kenyans must brace for very tough times ahead, indeed. But how did we get here? Could it have anything to do with that borrowing spree, including the Eurobond offers and Chinese infrastructural loans, which we were assured would be our saving grace? The SGR constitutes a huge chunk of Kenya’s debt and interest repayment burden. A project, which was initially meant to cost Sh80 billion to modernise the old railway from Mombasa to Kisumu, morphed Kenyan-style into a brand new project whose cost ballooned four times to Sh360 billion, and that only from Mombasa to Nairobi. Kenya just signed up to an additional credit line to extend the line to Kisumu. Let’s not even talk of the newly signed facility with the Americans to dual the Mombasa-Nairobi highway. The pertinent question is, did we get value for money for some of these debt schemes? If so, why is debt servicing getting into every nook and cranny of the country and deep into Kenyans’ pockets if the projects were deemed viable from the start? The manner of the Finance Bill’s passing spoke volumes. The Speaker of the National Assembly relied on a technicality, where majority of MPs opposed to the Bill were defeated by being denied the requisite two-thirds majority required to override the President’s recommendations. In one fell swoop, besides the fuel tax, salaried workers will hand a fraction of their pay to the government to finance a housing project, mobile phone users will incur additional duty and bank transfer costs as the Jubilee administration struggles to plug a budget hole created by rising expenditure and shrinking revenues. Even saccos have not been spared, with plans to raise taxes on deposits and dividends. Now, mobile phone subscribers are set to pay more for airtime and data services as excise duty on airtime has been raised from the 10 per cent to 15 per cent. This tax will affect over 44.1 million subscribers. This means that Sh100 airtime, which currently attracts Sh10 tax will now attract Sh15. This is hot on the heels of a July 2018 tax hike on mobile money transfer services from 10 per cent to 20 per cent to fund universal healthcare. One would be forgiven for believing that Kenya is now officially in a frenzy of debt and tax. But must the country head that route? Is more tax the answer to Kenya’s woes? Perhaps we need to take a long, hard look at some of our borrowing habits. We need to better scrutinise debt-funded public projects. We need to go back to the basics, bearing in mind that this country belongs not to us but to future generations. What would they get if we auction it and impoverish its people?  CEO, Lens Media ceo@lensmedia.co.ke 