Has Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka (pictured) struck his own deal with President Uhuru Kenyatta or is he just reaping the fruits of the handshake? Well, the former VP has been getting increasingly chummy with Uhuru since the National Prayer Breakfast three months ago. On Friday, they were together at the Nairobi showground — coming after his inclusion in the official delegation to China a few weeks ago. Even though he could be entitled to the protocol trappings by virtue of his status as a former VP, sources tell Corridors Kalonzo’s recent private visit to Uganda, where he met President Yoweri Museveni, was the clearest indication things changed. He was reportedly received by the Kenyan envoy and chauffeured in official Ugandan cars reserved for the country’s VIPs. The recent state appointments had at least three of his allies, including Wiper’s executive director. Some Nasa principals must be marvelling at how the fortunes of their colleagues are changing post-handshake. Bindu Bichenjanga! Some Jubilee mandarins are said to be grooming a top ODM governor from Western Kenya to divide the votes in the region ahead of the 2022 polls. Our moles in the top echelons of Jubilee told Corridors that the masterminds want to use the governor to divide Western Kenya and neutralise ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s presidential ambitions. The officials have already set up an office in Lavington with a full secretariat. They are also using their contacts within the state and the Council of Governors to push events involving the county chief. They are also said to be lining some foreign trips for the governor from next year. Well, they say in politics a day is a long time. Whereas President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced cost-cutting measures by his administration to save taxpayers’ funds, there are still many loopholes gobbling up millions of public funds. A top official at the Treasury was heard saying the leasing of private property is costing the state an arm and a leg. He suggested the government should consider terminating a number of leases. Surprisingly, it’s alleged almost all those buildings are owned by powerful families in the country. A dirty fight for the Homa Bay governor seat has begun. At the centre of the battle are three legislators, all of whom are dangling their closeness to ODM leader Raila Odinga. Sources whispered to Corridors that some MPs are not seeing eye-to-eye. One legislator was heard saying that since the EACC hit the Homa Bay county assembly, premature campaigns have died allegedly because the assembly’s budget was being siphoned to fund the campaigns. It’s alleged that one of the key suspects on the EACC graft list had been earmarked as a running-mate to a female gubernatorial aspirant. Click here for the latest political news