Is Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma aware of the state of affairs at Kenya's embassy in Stockholm, Sweden? A small bird has told corridors that the embassy has run broke and some basic services have ground to a halt. The source went ahead to tell corridors that even electricity supply has been cut due to huge pending bills. And not just that, the number that has been provided to the public, when called, is said to be received by “a mzungu lady” who has complained that she does not work for the embassy and so wonders how her number was provided as the embassy contact in the first place. ***** An MP from Nakuru county landed in hot soup after he shared child pornographic material in a public WhatsApp group recently. The legislator attempted to explain to the angry members that the video landed accidentally in the platform but his intention was to “share it with police so that they can take action”. The man went ahead to justify his 'mistake', arguing that while the material was shared accidentally, it had offered a chance to the members of the group to at least “learn of the evils in the society”. However, the keyboard warriors could not give the MP breathing space as they took him to task questioning his morality. Those are the pitfalls of social media and VIPs in society. It helps to keep off some things waheshimiwa! ***** A Kisumu based female lawyer is on the spot for regularly pocketing compensation for accident victims. Several clients accused the “rogue” lawyer of taking their awards by courts. On Monday, she was forced to flee for her dear life when a group of accident victims stormed her office in Alpha House demanding their money. The complainants claimed that the lawyer has been taking money from them on pretence that the seven years’ case was still dragging on. To their surprise, the case had been closed after the court awarded them compensation for injuries sustained. They said the lawyer has never informed them of having received their compensation and instead she’s been taking legal fees from them for an already concluded case. The complainants want the Advocates Complaints Commission (ACC) to probe the rogue lawyer and strike her off the Advocates’ Roll. The Law Society of Kenya and DCI have also been asked to investigate the lawyer. Will they? Click here for the latest political
news