There was a low voter turnout in Migori polling centres yesterday as more than 388,000 residents turned up to elect their third senator. This is despite all six aspirants urging voters to turn out in large numbers to vote. Yesterday, polling centres were empty. The IEBC officials and candidates’ agents had opened stations at 6am. Attempts by youths allied to candidates to wake up voters at dawn using whistles and vuvuzela were unsuccessful. However, most businesses in major towns – Migori, Sori, Awendo and Rongo – remained closed. “We have seen empty polling centres across the county. We are facing low turnout as the day progresses,” Hellen Oyaro, a former nominated MCA who cast her vote at St Peters Uriri Primary School, said. Police and officers from the NYS had an easy time as they were seen relaxing at the centres. “I’m in Migori town to pick stock for my business. I plan to go to Sori town and vote,” trader Agnes Nyanamba said. Read: Voting closes in Migori Senate by-election, counting underway On Sunday, IEBC commissioner Abdi Guliye and Nyanza regional police commander Leonard Katana held a security meeting and ensured materials reach all polling centres. There are 826 polling centres. The county tallying centre is at Migori TTC. Katana said the campaigns have been peaceful with “minimum incidents which were contained”. On Friday, all candidates finalised their campaigns. ODM leader Raila Odinga campaigned for the party candidate Ochillo Ayacko at Migori County Stadium. Federal Party of Kenya candidate Eddy Oketch also held his campaigns at the same venue hours later. Supporters of the two candidates have constantly clashed. ODM leaders have been claiming DP William Ruto was financing Oketch, a claim he denied. Read; Obado, PAs murder cases consolidated, bail hearing on Friday In the final rally, ODM leaders said the outcome of the election will ensure the region sends a message to Ruto ahead of 2022 elections. Other candidates for the seat are Peter Jobando (Green Congress Party), Samuel Otieno (Independent), Solomon Hodo (People Democratic Party) and Ogola Ogola (Independent). Ayacko who is said to be the front runner, served as Rongo MP from 1997 t0 2007. He became Energy minister from 2003-2004, before moving to the Ministry of Gender, Sports and Culture in 2004. In 2007, he lost his Rongo MP seat to Dalmas Otieno. Ayacko, who unsuccessfully tried to dislodge Migori governor Okoth Obado in 2017, is a lawyer. He at one time headed the Kenya Nuclear Electricity Board. Click here for the latest political news