Residents are to benefit from a new system that aims to eliminate fraudulent and inflated water bills. The new software, procured by the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company, will post water readings to the system immediately after billing. It will also eliminate under-billing. The company has been losing more than Sh3.2 billion every year. The loss was captured in the second report tabled by the Nairobi County Assembly Public Investments Committee. The water company admitted it faces problems arising from overpayments, billing errors and meter tampering. This left customers with a credit balance of more than Sh152 million in 2017. In June 2016, the credit balance was Sh88.8 million and the firm was blamed for having accounts that continue to reflect credit balances despite being active. But there are no corresponding billings or claims and there has been no reconciliation for a long time. Managing director Nahashon Muguna said the credit balance arose from several reasons. The management has now set targets for the revenue team to ensure all unjustified credit is reversed. “The intention is to ensure that any incorrect credit is verified and action taken,” Muguna said. The assembly committee led by chairman Stazo Elijah had urged Nairobi to procure the software,which cannot be manipulated and would help in detecting over payments and underpayment immediately the readings are posted. The committee also suggested that the firm audits its billing system to eliminate repeated errors in billing and also find out why many customers have credit balances. The situation must be rectified, it said. The committee said the company was losing Sh1 billion annually in non-revenue water — unaccountedfor water — due to water theft, faulty meters and illegal connections. According to the committee report, the water company billed only 112,787,608 cubic metres of water of the 181,363,932 cubic metres of water the firm produced in 2016-17. Thus, the company only earned Sh5.1 billion from the total water produced. The non-revenue water, which accounted for 38 per cent, was far above the 25 per cent allowed bywater services regulatory board guidelines. “The excess non-revenue water of 13 per cent may result in loss of revenue estimated at Sh1,044,873, 270,” read the report. The PIC committee said the company is losing Sh3.12 billion in sales in the process. Muguna said unaccounted for water was caused by leaking pipes, overflowing at storage facilities and inacurate metering.