Adolf Hitler had a 'homosexual streak' and spent several years living in a gay hostel in Austria, according to a CIA profile on the Nazi leader written during World War II. The 1943 intelligence report was compiled for then-president Franklin D. Roosevelt, and states that Hitler was 'both homosexual and heterosexual'. The 70-page report also claims Adolf Hitler was 'sexually attracted' to his deputy Fuhrer, Rudolf Hess, who - it says - was a known transvestite. The report was collated by anthropologist Henry Field, a hand-picked member of the White House's special intelligence unit tasked with trawling through any information he could find about German top brass, including Hitler himself. The resulting 'biographical sketch' of Hitler, covering everything from his childhood and education to diet, favourite music and 'speech-making technique'. It also includes an analysis of Hitler's sexuality and touches on his time in Austria as a struggling painter in his early 20s. It has long been known that Hitler lived at a men's hostel on Meldemannstrasse in Birgittenau, Vienna from 1910 to 1913. At the time he was unemployed and trying to make it as an artist, and only left the hostel to move to Germany after receiving his father's inheritance. The Office of Strategic Services files, a predecessor of the modern CIA, then claims the hostel had 'the reputation of being a place where elderly men went in search of young men for homosexual pleasures'. The information about Hitler's sexuality was provided by a Ernst Sedgwick Hanfstaengl, a German-American who had been a close friend and confidant of Hitler's during the 1920s and 30s. He eventually fell out of favour with Hitler and the Nazi leadership, and fled to Britain after which he defected to the U.S. and began working for President Roosevelt providing information on hundreds of the Nazi top brass. The report claims that Hitler's 'affinity' for his eventual Deputy Fuhrer Hess had grown stronger and 'might have possibly bordered on the sexual' after they were imprisoned together in the 1920s. According to the report this belief was strengthened upon learning that 'Hess's nickname among homosexual members of the party was "Fraeulein Anna" and that it was notorious that he had attended balls dressed in female attire'. Hitler is then described as a  'sado-masochistic type of man with possibly even a homosexual streak in him.' Concluding the chapter on Hitler's sexuality, Field writes: 'His sex life is dual as is his political outlook. 'He is both'homosexual end hetero-sexual; both Socialist and fervent Nationalist; both man and woman. 'While the true Adolf Hitler is elusive to the diagnostician, there are certain facts which prove that his sexual situation is untenable and even desperate.'