It is up to Parliament and the presidency to decide when to hire new commissioners to take up vacant positions at the IEBC, chairman Wafula Chebukati has said. The positions fell vacant in April, when three commissioners – vice chairperson Connie Maina, Margaret Mwachanya and Paul Kurgat – resigned. They said they had no faith in Chebukati. On August 25, Maina and Mwachanya made an unexpected return to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission offices, prompting a public uproar. IEBC communications director Andrew Limo told reporters the two were at the IEBC Anniversary Towers offices to see the chairman. “I can only report the purpose of their mission after I speak with the chairman,” he said. On Friday, Chebukati said it was in the public domain that the three had resigned. He said he would be happy to have the recruitment of new officeholders completed swiftly. “The issue of the IEBC commissioners who resigned is in the public domain. The work of the commission is ongoing. We are fine, but I would be happy if the new ones come in. We’ve held several elections and will continue to deliver on our mandate as per the Constitution,” Chebukati said. The chairman said they will not delve into an area reserved for other agencies. “The issue of replacement is for the other agencies — Parliament and the Executive. Parliament has to come up with a recruitment panel. The agencies will decide who comes in and when,” he said. Chebukati said the electoral agency is dealing with the case of embattled CEO Ezra Chiloba internally. “We can’t discuss the issue of Chiloba because it is an internal issue, which will be handled by the IEBC. I can’t prosecute an employee in the media. We have structures at the IEBC, which are being followed,” he said. Chebukati spoke on the sidelines of a breakfast meeting for the Forum for Chairpersons of Constitutional Commissions and Independent Offices at a Nairobi hotel. The commissioners met to announce their annual conference. Meru county will host this year’s summit from Wednesday to Friday next week.