Police in Migori are probing two suspected suicide cases in Kehancha on Wednesday. In the first incident at Kehancha Chini estate, Joseph Ghati Keboye, 26, is reported to have set himself ablaze in his house after a quarrel with his wife. Neighbours said the nurse at a local clinic in the town returned home after a night shift, closed the door and set himself on fire. “When he arrived home he sent for the key who from his wife who had left for work. He locked himself up in the house and refused to open the door,” the landlady said. The couple runs a chemist in the town. The deceased's father Anthony Keboye Mwita said his son was having an affair with another woman. The daughter-in-law had reported, he said. “We called him to come and sort out the issue but he refused. We suspect his death could be linked to that,” Mwita said at his home in Kegonga, in Kuria East. In a separate case, the body of Titus Mogohachi, 28, was found dangling from a tree. Area assistant chief Stephen Rioba said Mogohachi had disappeared from his home in Kaguyi village on Tuesday evening. “His family members did not know where he was. They searched for him on Wednesday and were informed the body was hanging from a tree behind Kehancha National Cereals and Produce Board depot,” Rioba said. The two bodies have been taken to Migori County Referal Hospital mortuary. Kuria West police boss Saiya Barasa said the police are investigating the two incidents to establish if there is a connection. He said a number of people have recorded statements. Elsewhere, a man was found dead in a pit latrine at Black Pool Bar in Kehancha town on Monday. Edgar Omahe from Kubinto village had been locked up in the toilet after he failed to settle a bill of Sh450. There are reports that bar attendants flogged him and locked him up in the toilet. He was found dead the following morning. “We were told the man went to the bar on Sunday night and had drinks but did not pay for them. He was found dead in the toilet on Monday,” police boss Barasa, the said. Click here for the latest political news