 Deputy President William Ruto this morning condoled with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his family at his Karen home following the passing on of his father Mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu. Mairu died at 4:30 am on Sunday at the Nairobi Hospital where he was undergoing treatment. "Ruto also hinted that the President will also be visiting the family to deliver his personal message and that of the country," Kalonzo's press secretary Dennis Kavisu said in a statement. Kalonzo expressed his gratitude on Twitter following the DP's visit. "Thank you William Ruto for condoling with us, this is very comforting, political differences should never divide us as a people," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday sent his condolences. "My deepest condolences to you my brother Musyoka on the passing on of your father, Mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu. May God grant you grace for this period. Our prayers are with you, your family and friends," Uhuru tweeted Nasa principals Raila Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetangula (Ford-K) have also sent out their condolence messages. "My thoughts and prayers are with you and your entire family as you walk this difficult path,” Musalia tweeted. Wetang'ula eulogised Mairu for his iconic advise and relentless efforts on his quest to have a just society. "His bravery, steadfastness, and personal sacrifice to see this country attain greater heights will forever be etched onto the minds of Kenyans who cherish democracy and cohesion," Wetang'ula said. Raila said: "Pole sana my brother following the passing on of your father. We share in your grief. May God grant comfort to your family at this trying moment." Baringo Senator Gideon Moi mourned Mzee Mairu saying he was humble and served humanity. The family has appointed Senator Enoch Wambua of Kitui County and Caxton Munywoki to Co-Chair the organizing committee, which will spearhead the preparations of the burial of the late Mzee Mairu. Kalonzo lost his mother in 2014. Mairu was born 1924, 94 years ago in Kathungu village, Ngalange Location in Tseikuru, Mwingi North constituency. Read: Kalonzo's father mzee Peter Musyoka Mairu is dead Click here for the latest political news