Garissa has drafted a law to guide its interaction with non-governmental organisations. Governor Ali Korane created the Department of Partnership and Donor Co-ordination whose key role is to establish the mode of relationships with NGOs, both local and international including UN bodies. County Public Service Board chairperson Ebla Sahal said the regulation is not meant curtail NGO operations but set a legal framework that will enable them partner with the county for effective services. She spoke during a public participation meeting for the validation of Garissa County NGO Coordination Bill 2018 at a Garissa hotel on Friday. “They remain a sure hand that comes to our rescue during times of flood, drought and disease outbreak while others have catapulted our county to greater development in sectors such as water, agriculture and education,’’ the chairperson said. The chief officer for the Department of Partnership and Donor Coordination Sirat Aden told area residents that the bill will safeguard job opportunities, ensure accountability and transparency through compliance of all the NGOs operating within the county. “Am proud to say that we are the first county set to regulate the non- state actors and am sure the outcome out of this mutual partnership will make other counties to follow suit,” Sirat said. He said the Bill will address disparities among NGOs operating in various parts of the county. The Bill is expected to address issues such as overlapping responsibilities and duplication of effort to maximise their impact on the lives of residents. The governor will appoint seven members of the public including NGO representatives to sit in the committee in order to ensure fair representation and avoid disputes between various stakeholders in the county. The event brought together UN bodies, international and national nongovernmental organisations, societies, trust foundations, community based organisations and faith -based organisations. Lack of coordination and proper oversight has resulted in minimal benefits for the country from NGOs and a debate continues to rage on the impact of aid on Africa.