Former Garissa county Finance executive Idriss Mukhtar has been transferred to India for specialised treatment. Mukhtar survived an attempted assassination on August 19. He was shot in the head in a parking lot as he came out from a mosque in Kileleshwa. Since then he has been hospitalised at Nairobi Hospital’s Intensive Care Unit with a bullet lodged in his head. “On Wednesday, he was taken to India for more specialised medical care. So far he is in stable condition. Doctors have been doing scans on him and we expect today or tomorrow to receive full reports on the way forward,” Farah Saleh, a friend and former colleague at Garissa county government, said. Read: Suspect in ex-Garissa CEC shooting died of hanging, postmortem shows This comes as homicide officers from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations continue tying together pieces of evidence to nab suspects and onward prosecution. This week, Garissa governor Ali Korane was still under interrogation among other unidentified persons. Earlier in September, the former executive’s father Aden Mukhtar in a press briefing told reporters his son was shot because he tried to hold to account the county government official. “He questioned the academic qualifications of Governor Ali Korane. That is why some people wanted him dead,” Aden said, adding he had advised his son to report the matter of a threat to his life to police. Read: How I was hired to kill Idriss Mukhtar - David Mwai “My son kept calling, that he was receiving threats. He said the callers told him they had all the details about him and were monitoring his movements. They told him they knew where he spent his time, where he prayed, adding that they had been sent by a ‘big man’ from Garissa to eliminate him.” He further said the callers also wanted money in exchange for the information on the plot to kill him. When he and police set up a trap to nab the callers, they failed to turn up and changed the meeting place. “As a family, we are very hurt and we are praying that justice will be served for our son. We are even receiving threats, but we hope those involved will be charged,” Aden said. The investigations have been slow since one of the main suspects in the shooting, David Mwai, was found dead in his cell in what police said was suicide. Click here for the latest political news 