A former commissioner at the National Police Service Commission is under pressure. After their term as commissioners ended on October 3 he entertained the thought that his word would still curry favour with the commission CEO. He got the shock of his life recently when he tried to impress upon the CEO to draft a letter to a bank signalling that his gratuity was being processed and would be paid to him soon. The suggestion was outrightly rejected. Undeterred, he sought permission to keep the commission’s vehicles. He got another rejection, of course. He is now left wondering where he will next get his succour. ***** A massive graft purge is looming in a multi-billion parastatal. After months of investigations, sources whispered to Corridors that the noose has tightened on the main suspects who are lined up for grilling that would end sometime next week. What makes matters worse is that there is vicious infighting among the top brass. So bad is the relationship that it is believed the bosses are openly fixing each other. One of their biggest nightmare is a project that the institution was doing in Western Kenya. Corridors will tell you more about this troubled agency soon. ***** An acting CEO in the transport sector who has been dishing out parastatal properties to influential people after his new lover demanded prime properties both in and outside the city is under siege. A bird has told Corridors that there is no tendering going on for the properties to be leased out. The man has become an overnight millionaire leading a flashy life within the short period he has been at the helm of the state agency. The MD, who has been assured of confirmation to the job, is said to be under the undue influence of his other mistresses in running the organisation. ***** A son and daughter of a prominent politician are the talk of town. Reason? The two are said to have used their father’s influence to acquire a piece of land in Nanyuki, Laikipia county. The land allegedly belongs to the government and the two middle-aged operatives have sold it to a foreigner and a senator. The son is said to have repatriated his dollars through Rwanda and Mauritius. The deal was sealed in November last year when the country was busy with post-election disputes. The daughter is said to have sold the four plots at an unknown amount to a Rift Valley senator who is not aware that the land is now the subject of investigations by the National Land Commission. Click here for
the latest political news