A Senate session sitting in Eldoret town, Uasin Gishu county, ran into fierce headwinds when it met maize farmers from the North Rift. Indignation, anger, disgust, hopelessness and helplessness were palpable as farmers accused leaders of ignoring their plight. Emotional farmers confronted the senators saying their concerns, including timely payment for grain supplies to the National Cereals and Produce Board (NCPB) and access to subsidies, had not been addressed. Controversy regarding maize marketing is not new. In fact, Kenya’s first major graft scandal at Independence was about maize. Of particular concern to Agriculture ministry officials was a situation that unfolded in 1964-65 occasioned by circumstances that led to the suspension of Paul Ngei as the Minister for Cooperatives and Marketing. Ngei, the Independence hero and one of the famous Kapenguria Six who had been incarcerated together with Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, was accused of meddling with the Maize Marketing Board (the predecessor of NCPB) and smuggling the crop, leading to shortages in 1964-65. A report by a commission appointed to look into the shortages found that Ngei, who chaired the board, oversaw “unfairness, inefficiency, corruption and black marketing” in the distribution and marketing of maize throughout Kenya. He was accused of smuggling maize and overseeing the export of surplus maize that would have safely seen Kenya through the shortages of 1964-65. Another maize scandal would resurface 43 years later in 2009, this time dragging in the name of then Minister for Agriculture William Ruto, now the Deputy President. History appears to be repeating itself as Agriculture PS Richard Lesiyampe, former NCPB managing director Newton Terer and several officials implicated in last year’s multibillion-shilling maize scandal were arrested and arraigned in court. Lesiyampe is in trouble for allegedly authorising the NCPB, the custodian of the country’s strategic grain reserve, to buy maize using an unauthorised budget. Whilst Kenyans commend the swift and decisive action of the DPP, the nation’s farmers remain in a quandary. Cheap maize illegally imported from Uganda and elsewhere has filled all the grain storage space available to the NCPB and has depleted its resources. The NCPB for the last one year has been unable to purchase most of last year’s maize crop. The glut at the NCPB has caused a sudden fall in prices in the local maize market and a 90kg bag currently sells at Sh900m down from Sh3,200 last year. Many farmers are still holding on to last year’s stocks while this year’s crop is due for harvest this month. The farmers are in a terrible situation. Each farmer who was accorded an opportunity to speak at the Senate session hit out at the leaders and government for not doing enough to help them market their produce. Government response more often than not is that Agriculture is a devolved function. If that be so, what is the role of the NCPB? Why were state funds from the NCPB used to pay billions to some individuals for lump-sum maize delivered to the board by non-farmers? The cost of farm inputs from machinery, fuel, seed, fertiliser, herbicides, labour, bagging and transport have gone up exponentially, whilst government is making every effort to keep the prices of maize, wheat and sugar as low as possible. Unless government initiates a farmers’ subsidy scheme, agriculture will be unsustainable in future.