Two young innovators are among the 235 passengers who will fly to New York during the historic Kenya Airways inaugural direct flight to New York on October 28. The passengers will depart from Nairobi’s Jomo Kenyatta International Airport aboard the Kenya Airways Boeing 787 Dreamliner. They will be joined by 233 other passengers for the return flight from JFK International Airport on October 30. Shirlene Nafula and Evans Wadongo, both aged 26, were handed their return tickets at State House, Nairobi, by spokesperson Kanze Dena and Kenya Airways corporate social responsibility boss Jacquie Muhati. The two entrepreneurs were picked on the basis of their creativity and innovativeness in biotechnology and solar energy — areas that fall within the Big 4 agenda. Nafula, a University of Nairobi Bachelor of Science in Microbiology and Biotechnology graduate, is the founder and CEO of Crystal River Products, which manufactures bio-based beauty and hygiene products. Her company seeks to be the leading producer and supplier of the best bio-based beauty and cleaning products in the world. Wadongo is a young engineer who designed a solar-powered LED lantern called Mwanga Bora, an invention that is fast replacing smoky kerosene lamps and firelight in rural Kenya. He has distributed thousands of the lanterns in rural Kenya where there is inadequate electricity supply or no connection at all. Wadongo’s firm, Sustainable Development for All, sponsors an empowerment drive that teaches poor Kenyans how to reproduce the solar lanterns and sell them for profit. Kanze said President Uhuru Kenyatta is keen on uniting and uplifting the youth — the drivers of the economy. “They’ll be expected to report back their experience and how the three-day exposure can benefit the youth,” Dena said. KQ expects the two to travel, learn, meet and network with counterparts and return with new ideas that can inspire more youths. With the commencement of direct flights to New York, Kenya joins a small group of African states, such as South Africa, that operate flights to the US. The Nairobi-to-JFK International Airport long-haul flight will last 15 hours, representing more than seven-hour reduction from the current travel time between the two cities.