During the African Green Revolution Forum 2018 in Kigali, Rwanda, I of three women — Charity, Loise and Jane. In 2012, they founded Exotic EPZ Limited, processing macadamia nuts for export. At first, nobody took them seriously. Banks said that as women without property or land for collateral, they were too big a risk for a loan. The farmers they contacted were sceptical about women surviving in international trade, where “even men had failed”. But they pooled their savings, and borrowed from friends and family. They started with 7.5 tonnes of shelled nuts per month. They have now doubled that and currently employ more than 100 people, mostly women, and created a market for thousands of smallholder macadamia farmers. Their story demonstrates huge opportunity in women’s agribusiness, but also challenges and gender barriers. Africa-wide, 68 per cent of economically active women are in agriculture. The continent has the largest proportion of women entrepreneurs. Women face challenges in growing their agribusiness. Despite expansion of microfinance organisations reaching millions of women, research shows the financing gap for women-owned small and medium enterprises is about $20 billion (Sh2 trillion). Women are still less likely to have bank accounts. Even when women apply for loans, they are less likely to be successful than men. SCORE, a nonprofit association helping small businesses get off the ground, grow and achieve their goals through education and mentorship, released a study on women-owned businesses. It showed that while 59 per cent of businesses would like financing, only 25 per cent sought it. And of them, only 31 per cent were successful. What should we do to grow women’s businesses? First, recognise that financial inclusion interventions are not gender-neutral and uptake and usage gaps would be reduced if products and services suited women’s needs and priorities. A lot of effort has been put into trying to make women bankable, training and organising them into groups, among other interventions. We need a paradigm shift to make financial institutions women-able. Second, recognise many needs of women-owned businesses beyond financial inclusion and bundling services. Combining financial services and skills such as financial literacy, linking to business support services and mentoring can help businesses thrive and grow. Research we funded at USIU-Kenya has shown that when you only offer skills training to business owners, the likelihood their businesses will be successful is 57 per cent. This becomes 93 per cent when you combine training, mentoring and business support. Third, integrating women in national and global supply chains, as suppliers of raw materials, aggregators and processors is key to enabling women to thrive. And finally, recognising women are not homogenous; there are entrepreneurship barriers for different types of women and we need to find what works for them. Addressing the child-care needs of young women, for example, can increase their participation in employment and agribusiness. In Kenya’s informal sector, providing child-care to has increased employment. In Kenya and Uganda, for example, over 20,000 women smallholder farmers supply beans to a company doing industrial precooking. The factory supplies to supermarkets and institutions. Senior programme specialist, Canada’s International Development Research    