Growing up, I remember driving across Kiambu with my father, Kenny Rogers playing on the radio, and admiring the beautiful scenery, hills and valleys filled with tea and coffee bushes. My father grew tea at our home in Gatundu after he was taught by his father, and would pass on the knowledge to me every chance he got. Other family members grew coffee and back then, it was their source of livelihood and they were able to earn a decent and comfortable living from the cash crop. As a nation, we are a far cry away from the vibrancy and profitability that was witnessed in the past in the coffee industry. If you drive across Kiambu now, most of the landscape is filled with apartments and housing projects, with some farmers opting to uproot coffee and venture into real estate. Other farmers are opting to switch to other crops such as macadamia. This shows a sickness, which if not cured soon, will deprive the nation of a cash crop that was once a major foreign exchange earner. So when did the rain start beating us? Kenya has the potential to produce more than 300,000 tonnes, but the highest it has ever achieved is 130,000 in the 1987-88 coffee year. The annual production has been fluctuating between 40,000 and 50,000 tonnes since the mid-1980s. According to the Coffee Directorate, the country is currently producing 45,000 tonnes a year, but the government plans to revive the sector and increase production to 100,000 tonnes by 2022. In 1987-88 the production area under coffee was around 170,000 hectares ( 420,079 acres) but it declined to 114,000 hectares ( 281,700 acres) in 2015-16 crop year. Farmers are fed up with taking care of their coffee trees and earning too little from them. According to the World Agroforestry Centre, coffee was Kenya’s main foreign exchange earner until 1989, when it was overtaken by tourism. Earnings have since taken a downward trend and coffee now ranks fourth after tourism, tea and horticulture. This could be the reason why President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed the 19-member National Task Force on Coffee Sub-Sector Reforms in 2015. It may also be the reason why there has been vibrant debate over Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s proposed Coffee Bill, 2018. As a result of the low earnings, farmers are abandoning the crop and there has been limited expansion and replacement in the traditional coffee-growing regions of Eastern and Central Kenya. This means less production as years go by and thus less money in the farmers’ pocket. These meager earnings are depressing, as Kenya’s coffee is still the most preferred across the world. So good is Kenya’s coffee that in the US, a kilo of it repackaged by other international traders retails at about Sh9,000. What if we had laws in place that ensured that our farmers get at least 10 per cent of this retail price? It would mean that they would get at least Sh900 per kilo instead of less than Sh100. We need to diversify the market, allow investors to set up processing firms, rebuild collapsed factories, and create laws prohibiting raw coffee from being exported. Coffee must be value added, packaged, processed, and exported while branded as made from Kenya. Another issue that has been cited as a catalyst in the death of the coffee sector is cartels that steal from farmers. Moving forward, we must think of how to wipe out the cartels that have dominated the industry and oppressed coffee farmers for years. These cartels, working with multinationals, have been fleecing farmers directly and indirectly for years. Some even organise theft of coffee beans from factory stores and sell them at the weekly auction. The government must come out and protect farmers and put in place policies that will ensure we revive the coffee sector.  Political and communications consultant @MachelWaikenda 