Three Murang’a residents have filed a petition seeking to have Governor Mwangi wa Iria stopped from replacing the water firm chairman. They have asked the court to nullify a gazette notice published on August 15 in which the governor announced Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) chairman Peter Munga’s replacement with Joseph Kimura. The petitioners are former Murang’a mayor Mercy Wanjiku, Antony Mutiria and Jane Wanyoike. They filed the petition weeks after the Employment and Labour Relations court in Nyeri dismissed a similar petition by Munga. He wanted his replacement nullified and Wa Iria stopped from interfering with the water firm. The petitioners told Murang’a High Court judge Kanyi Kimondo that the governor did not follow the right procedure while appointing Kimura as the interim chairperson. Through lawyers Theophilus Kamwaro and Antony Kabathi, the petitioners asked the court on Friday to declare Kimura’s appointment null and void since it was unprocedural. They want the court to bar the governor from taking over the company’s assets. They said he is planning to transfer ownership of the assets to the county government. Such a move, they said, would cause suffering to residents as it would disrupt water services and residents would be forced to fetch water from rivers. But Wa Iria opposed the petition through lawyer Ng’ang’a Mbugua. He accused the petitioners of acting as proxies of Munga and the water company. Mbugua said the gazette notice published by the governor was valid as the water function is devolved. He said Muwasco has been opposing the move by the county government to take its full mandate in the water sector as stipulated in the Constitution. The petitioners, Mbugua said, should have pushed for the reconnection of their water supply instead of seeking to stop the replacement of the water firm’s chairman. Justice Kanyi said he would rule on the petition on November 1. Last week, the county government took over the ownership of Murang’a South Water and Sanitation Company (Muswaco) after the company management changed its memorandum of understanding and started the process of transferring its assets. The company transferred 4,997 shares to the county government, while the three remaining shares were issued to the offices of Finance and Water executives, and the county secretary. Wa Iria had said he would go round the five companies initiating the transfer process and he expected full co-operation from their management. He threatened to fire anyone who resists.