Senators from Nyanza have told MCAs to end constant wranglesand focus on development. Senators James Orengo (Siaya), Fred Outa (Kisumu), Moses Kajwang’ (Homa Bay), Ochilo Ayacko (Migori), Agnes Zani (nominated) and Rose Nyamunga (nominated), said fights among ward reps and their speakers must stop as it hurts development. Orengo reminded the MCAs that their positions in the society are important, hence they must conduct themselves with decorum. He told them to be guided by Chapter Six of the Constitution which spells out leadership and integrity issues in managing their affairs. The Senate Minority leader urged the MCAs and their speakers to pursue dialogue in addressing differences. “We must begin to see our MCAs and county assembly speakers working together because the success of devolution is anchored on them,” said Orengo. “If you are at war between yourselves, then you are going to fail, and I am pleading with the county assemblies to find ways of solving their differences and problems,” he said, adding Kisumu as a regional capital should be a place of peace to set example to other assemblies. Kajwang’s urged the ward reps to shun power wrangles and focus on their oversight and legislative roles. He said the region cannot witness meaningful development if the county assembly wars persist “Development fears noise and if we want the region to prosper then we must strive to minimize unnecessary fights,” he said. Zani asked the MCAs to begin to exploit untapped potential within the region in their legislative work. She told them that they too have a key role to play in ensuring that devolution works. The senators spoke during Kisumu senator Fred Outa’s annual address to the county assembly on Thursday. Outa said the wrangles and in-fighting must be minimized, if not eliminated because they take up a lot of resources and portray the county negatively. He said there is a chance for the leaders to dialogue and iron out issues to make the county great. This comes barely a week after ODM leader Raila Odinga lashed out at MCAs for engaging in endless wrangles instead of working for the electorate. Odinga stated that the MCAs across the county had turned their assemblies into battlegrounds, thus defeating their purpose instead of debating on viable development. projects that can benefit the people.