The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission cannot ascertain whether former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero owns Sh9 billion property. On October 5, the commission filed an affidavit in court listing 75 assets owned by Kidero. But yesterday, it said it could not verify if all of them are his as investigations were still underway. Lawyer David Ruto told Anti-Corruption Court judge Hedwig Ong’undi that some have been verified to be Kidero’s. “We did not say Kidero owns all the properties. We said allegedly. We are currently treating it as an allegation. It doesn’t categorically mean he owns them, but all the issues are under investigation. It’s after verification that petitioners will be issued with a notice,” he said. Ruto urged the court not to suspend execution of the search warrants against Kidero’s assets, cautioning that it would defeat investigations into well-founded allegations of corruption and economic crimes. Read: Kidero wants EACC detective punished for lying under oath The lawyer was responding to an application filed by Kidero three weeks ago challenging search warrants issued to the commission to seize his properties and documents. Kidero argued that the terms of the search warrant were vague, open-ended and had been abused by the EACC, which had gone on a fishing expedition “in a desperate bid to look for incriminating evidence” against him, his family and employees. But the commission maintained that the warrants were lawfully issued and the application by Kidero was an attempt to derail its investigations. Yesterday, Kidero through lawyer Tom Ojienda, said he only has Sh645 million property, not Sh9 billion as claimed by the EACC. He said one Mulki Umar from the EACC had maliciously assigned exaggerated desktop values to his assets without professional valuation. “Nothing could be more negligent, malicious and utter show of bad faith,” Ojienda said, adding that the commission had failed to consider the actual purchase prices and the duration within which he acquired the assets. If the commission had followed the law and requested him, he would have readily and willingly provided all information it sought on ownership, years of acquisition and purchase prices of all the listed properties, he said. The Office of the Director of Prosecutions told the court that Kidero’s application was premature as the EACC had yet to forward the file to it for consideration and directions. “In the event the commission forwards the file to us, we shall, in exercise of our constitutional duty, be guided by the evidential weight and public threshold before rendering our directive on the matter,” The ruling on Kidero’s application will be delivered on November 1. More: Searches at Kidero’s premises are legal, graft body tells court Click here for
the latest political news