Traders who conduct their businesses within Nyamira town
have protested the recent notice that requires all temporary kiosks in town to
be demolished. The county department of trade on Friday gave a notice to
all the traders who are conducting business in temporary kiosks to look for
alternative places to conduct their business starting Monday. According to the acting chief officer Trade and Cooperatives
in Nyamira county Charles Kerongo most of the temporary Kiosks in the town are
a security threat to other traders as they are used in organizing criminal
activities and also used as drug peddling hubs. “We are giving this notice to the people who are having
businesses in town to go for alternative joints where they can conduct their
businesses from. We just discovered that a number of these temporary business
joints in town are not safe for our people as some of them are conducting
illegal businesses without the knowledge of the county government,” said
Kerongo. The places that will be affected are the Nyamira county bus
park where small joint business holders such as M-pesa operators, second hand
clothes sellers and those who own shops that rest in temporary structures in
town, whereby a number of those who are also having these structures along the
road reserves will be affected. Most of the traders protested the move and said they have no
other place to go and accused the county government department of trade for the
move saying they need to be given alternative joints to move to before they can
be moved away from their current joints. “The county government is being unfair to us, how can
someone tell us to move from the temporary Kiosks in two days without giving us
the alternative place to go. We are not moving unless the county government
gives us alternative shops to move into,” said Damaris Mokeira who owns a shop
at the Nyamira county bus park. However the department through the CEM Omwanza Muga
maintained that all the traders who are in temporary shops should move for
sanity to prevail in the small town of Nyamira. “We will work on the directive given by the department which
requires all those in temporary structures to move to permanent joints and
other places. This is for the safety of all of them. These temporary joints are
a security threat as they are criminal hubs that should be done away with,”
said Muga.