President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked leaders to stop politicking and instead deliver on the promises they made to Kenyans through their manifestos during the 2017 election. The President observed that ordinary Kenyans are not interested in 2022 politics, instead they are more concerned about the steps the leaders are taking to improve their well-being. "This is not the time to be talking about the 2022 general election. Ordinary Kenyans don’t care about that," Uhuru said on Friday. He made the remarks at the 7th Annual Conference of Constitutional Commissions and Independent Offices at the Meru National Polytechnic. "Kenyans want to know what we are doing for them today, tomorrow, next week and next month to ensure they can put a plate of food on the table," he said. Uhuru added that leaders must seize of the fact that wananchi are concerned about affordable healthcare, housing, but not politics. Also read: Referendum push pure idle talk, says DP Ruto He said the programmes being implemented by his administration are the product of extensive public participation, forums he said Kenyans have made clear what they want from the government. "Last year, I was fortunate to directly engage with ordinary men and women, youth, persons living with disabilities and members of minority groups, right across the country. I heard their concerns, their expectations, and their praise and criticism of my first term." The President said it was through the humbling and informative experiences that he came up with the vision of the Big 4 development agenda. The blueprint covers affordable and decent housing, affordable healthcare for all, food security, and employment creation through manufacturing. "My vision for Kenya is the product of this extensive process of public participation. Indeed, properly speaking, it is not mine but rather the vision of millions of Kenyans," he said. "Public participation – I have commended it to you more than once – really does work." The Head of State called on constitutional commissions to deliver on their mandate, adding that there have been cases where some have slackened in the execution of their responsibilities by claiming independence as a defence against scrutiny. "Security of tenure has sometimes been used as a shield against accountability and the uniform application of the law; and autonomy and independence have occasionally been mistaken for detachment from the rest of the government," Uhuru observed. The President called on constitutional commissions to be open to scrutiny and to fully embrace public participation. "Consulting Kenyans is not a favour or an act of grace; it is as much a basic constitutional requirement as it is a necessity for effective governance," he said. While calling on Kenyans to engage more with government agencies in demand of better services, Uhuru called on the commissions, all anchored in Chapter 15 of the Constitution, to maintain the highest standards of professionalism and meritocracy when serving the public. "I wish to encourage all Kenyans to take advantage of the public participation avenues that are available, engage with your Government; and in a civilized manner, demand for better service delivery by all arms of Government and institutions. It is your right." In his speech, Meru Governor Kiraitu Mirungi said he was opposed to the current call for a constitutional referendum by a section of the political class adding that the timing is not right. Kiraitu cautioned that if the current push for plebiscite is not halted, then politicians risk derailing the realisation of the country's development agenda. "I have been instrumental and at the centre of two referendums. I can assure you Mr President unless referendum is crafted and managed well, it will bring chaos and bloodshed as witnessed in the 2007/2008 post election violence," the governor said. Attorney General Justice Paul Kihara Kariuki said his department is committed to helping the President achieve his dream of a corrupt free government. "We must help the President in fighting and uprooting corruption. Under my watch, nobody is above the law," Justice Kihara said. On her part,  Lydiah Nzomo - the chairperson of the constitutional commissions and independent offices, thanked President Kenyatta for his continued support to the agencies. Click here for the latest political news