President Uhuru Kenyatta’s niece Kavi Pratt is set to release her song with the late Kikuyu Benga musician Joseph Kamaru titled Hakuhi Nawe. “Kamaru will be greatly missed because he was a great friend of mine and a mentor who used to give me great advice as well as how to stay,” she told Word Is The singer, who has fans all over the world and has been in the industry for a while, says she is blessed to have interacted with Kamaru, who was a her mentor. “He was a great person that I am really blessed to have met. I have a song that I am about to release titled Hakuhi Nawe which has Kikuyu, Swahili and English in it. Kamaru has done a verse in the song, which I wrote and asked him to come vibe along. “Previously, I have been doing backups for him and so we did an exchange in this song. He was amazing, so professional and good time manager. I can speak so much about him because he was very patient and humble and I learnt a lot from him.” She started singing at a young age. “My journey started when I was three years. My mum used to tell me that I used to sing and I loved singing but I was so shy. I also did music as a career. “Music has been my calling but I am aspiring to have a fashion line because I have been designing some of my clothes and people have been congratulating me and so I think I will make something by the end of the year and explore.” Early this year, Kavi released a song, Rolling with the punches, inspired by life’s difficulties. “Music is a rocky path because as an artiste you have to be very sensitive and put all your feelings and emotions in the songs you are doing,” she said. “Trying to get yourself on the doors of the music industry is also a main challenge because they (fans) want who they want and sometimes they want who they know. You have to be confident and focused.” She recently launched her new single and video on Kiss TV (Belong to you) produced by King David alias Blackman. “All my songs are inspired by personal experiences...if people want to know more about me listen to my music that is where I express myself.”