Mandera school children will take madrassa classes in formal schools to save them time if a bill to integrate religious and securlar education is passed. The National Nomadic Education in Kenya (Naconek) organisation is in consultations with education stakeholders working to include duksi and madrasa in formal school curriculum. National nomadic education chief executive officer Harun Mohamed regretted that area children spend too much time in informal religious education at the expense of the formal education. “Our children spend up to 12 years in madrasa before embarking on the formal primary school education, when they start learning, they are over age. They hence exhibit low concenration which impedes performance in the national exams,” Harun said. In duksi, memorisation, a child may take as long as five years. While presiding over the forum in Mandera town on Tuesday, Mohammed saidthat literacy level in the region is below the national average. Mohammed said the move to combine both the informal and formal education will reduce time wasted while in the former sector, and urged MCAs to pass the bill that he said will put children at par with others in the rest of the country. Deputy Governor Mohamed Arai said it is high time that duksi and madrasa are in-cooperated into area school curriculum. The workshop of religious leaders, MCAs, communal and education leaders said the nomadic and religious lifestyle called for an education system that will blend the education curriculum with the informal sector. The nomadic council will provide linkages between the county government and the national level education officials. It is targeting children from Lamu, Tana river, Garissa, Wajir, Mandera and other Northern Kenya counties that embraces nomadic pastoral lifestyle. The National Council for Nomadic Education is working on a Sh50 million project to improve access to education for children from nomadic pastoralist communities, fishing nomadic areas and urban informal settlements. The children spend most of the time looking for pastures. The project received funds from the national government, Unicef, the World Bank and several NGOs.