Joint winner of the Nobel Peace Prize Congolese Denis Mukwege is the 11th African to have won the Nobel Peace Prize. Previous African winners  were: In 2015, four Tunisian organisations known as the National Dialogue Quartet won the prize. Mukwege on Friday dedicated his award to all women affected by rape and sexual violence. The doctor, who treats war rape victims in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Nadia Murad - a Yazidi rights activist and survivor of sexual slavery by Islamic State, were earlier announced as joint winners of the prestigious award. Speaking at a news conference at his Panzi hospital in the eastern Congolese city of Bukavu, Mukwege said the prize was an important recognition of many women's trauma. "This violence committed on their bodies happens not only in our country, the Democratic Republic of Congo, but also in many other countries," he said. "Dear survivors all over the world, I would like to tell you that through this prize, the world is listening to you and rejects indifference, the world refuses to stand idly by in the face of your suffering." Opened in 1999, the Panzi clinic receives thousands of women each year, many of them requiring surgery from sexual violence. It also provides HIV/AIDS treatment as well as free maternal care. Yazidi campaigners said on Friday the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to activist Nadia Murad was the "ultimate recognition" of the religious minority's suffering at the hands of Islamic State and would reinvigorate their quest for justice. Murad became an advocate for the Yazidi minority and for refugee and women's rights in general after surviving enslavement and rape by Islamic State fighters in Iraq in 2014. "As a survivor, I am grateful for this opportunity to draw international attention to the plight of the Yazidi people who have suffered unimaginable crimes," she said in a statement. "Many Yazidis will look upon this prize and think of family members who have been lost, are still unaccounted for, or remain in captivity." Murad Ismael, the head of Yazda, a Yazidi-led charity that supports survivors and is documenting evidence of mass killings committed by Islamic State militants, said it was an important day for all Yazidis. "We've suffered so much over the past four years and this has been a moment of recognition, the ultimate moment of recognition of our genocide, of our suffering," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone. Read: Congolese gynecologist Denis Mukwege wins 2018 Nobel Peace Prize Click here for the latest political news  