World Teachers’ Day is being celebrated in a special way: with its own unique Google Doodle. The event is held annually to honor teachers throughout the world and is always held a specific day to mark the anniversary of the adoption of an important document in the history of education. Here’s all you need to know about what World Teachers’ Day us, when it is, some gift and activity ideas and also what a Google Doodle is. What is World Teachers' Day? World Teachers’ Day is an annual event that aims to promote ‘appreciating, assessing and improving the educators of the world’, honor educators worldwide and to bring attention to issues impacting teachers and other educational professionals throughout the world. The event was established in 1994 and commemorates the 1966 signing of the UNESCO/ILO Recommendation Concerning the Status of Teachers, the document that helped to address the status of teachers worldwide. It outlines standards pertaining to the recruitment, training and retention of teachers throughout the world and advocates for their employment and working conditions. To mark the event, UNESCO and Education International undertake a campaign annually to help people understand the critical role that teachers play in both the classroom and society as a whole, partnering with private sector organizations to achieve this and focusing on a singular theme every year. The theme for 2018 is, ‘The right to education means the right to a qualified teacher’ and also marks the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948 by the United Nations. Today, World Teachers’ Day is celebrated in more than 100 countries throughout the world. When is World Teachers' Day 2018? World Teachers’ Day 2018 will be held on Friday, October 5. It’s held on October 5 on an annual basis. World Teachers' Day gift ideas For students and parents looking to give gifts to teachers for World Teachers’ Day, a wide array of options are available. Just a few ideas include traditional gifts like apples as well as tote bags, doormats, candy, mugs, books and more. World Teachers' Day activities In addition to giving gifts, World Teachers’ Day can be celebrated with many fun events and activities. Some ideas for this include holding stage performances at school, playing games, having picnics and by simply thanking teachers for what they do. Other ideas for how to mark World Teachers’ Day in a memorable way also include hosting a party for local school teachers and educators, offering teacher discounts at local businesses and giving out candy, coffee, cookies and other treats for teachers. What is a Google Doodle? Google Doodles are changes to Google’s homepage on a temporary basis that reflect a key anniversary, event, individual, accomplishment and the like. First created back in 1998 by Google cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin to commemorate the Burning Man festival, they were later produced by an in-house team called Doodlers established to create them on a more regular basis. Nowadays, Google Doodles are generally used to celebrate holidays such as Halloween and St. Patrick’s Day as well as to commemorate important people like Fred Rogers and to mark events such as German Reunification Day, U.S. National Voter Registration Day and even Google’s own 20th birthday. Click here for the latest political news