The burial committee for the slain Rongo University student Sharon Otieno has prepared a budget of Sh1.1 million. Committee chairman Elijah Opiyo said their budget estimates comprise a mortuary bill of Sh50,000, coffin for Sh50,000, catering personnel Sh360,000 and meals for Sh150,000. Organising secretary Oracha Ochuodho denied social media reports that the budget amounted to Sh2.5 million. The social media tally included Sh100,000 to hire professional mourners and Sh750,000 to feed the mourners. Oracha and Opiyo condemned those behind the malicious budget. “They are malicious and do not mean well for the family and relatives of the deceased. Let people treat such messages with contempt they deserve,” Opiyo said. Read: Sharon died from excessive bleeding, may have been raped – autopsy On the social media, there was a photograph of an incomplete permanent house for Sharon’s parents (Melida Auma and Douglas Otieno) under construction and was expected to be completed using money collected through the funeral budget. Opiyo said the organising committee has been accused of using Sharon’s death to extort money from people. “People call and ask why we’re making the burial an expensive and luxurious exercise. But I tell them that our estimates have not changed,” Opiyo said. Ochuodho said they are not likely to get enough funds for the exercise because they are accused of pushing for their personal interest. Ochuodho said he fears the main fund-drive on October 14 may be poorly attended due to the rumours. “The mini-harambees we’ve done have been poorly attended due to such propaganda spread on social media,” Ochuodho said. Sharon’s body is kept at MED 25 International –Kenya (Kirindo) hospital mortuary in Mbita. Before her death, Sharon was abducted together with Nation journalist Barack Oduor on September 3 this year. Read: Detectives consider DNA test in probe into Sharon’s murder Her body was found in a thicket at Owade area near Wire forest in Oyugis, Kasipul constituency, a day after the abduction. Postmortem of the body was done at Rachuonyo Level 4 Hospital morgue in Oyugis town. The foetus’ burial took place on September 14. The foetus was buried in the home of Samuel Odege, Sharon’s paternal grandfather. Villagers mourned silently to conform with the local culture. Sharon will be buried on October 19 in Magare village in Homa Bay, at at her grandfathers homestead. Click here for the latest political news 