A mother of two accused of eloping with veteran Eldoret politician Jackson Kibor has denied having any love relationship with him. “I know him very well because he comes to the place where I work but I have no other business with him,” said 30-year-old Mercy Sultan. She instead blames her husband, Isaac Kosgey, for not paying dowry and failing to take care of their family, causing her to leave her home. “He should not blame Kibor over his own failures. “All the 17 years we have been together, he has not paid dowry and I am the bread winner of the family,” said Mercy who denied eloping with Kibor to live in Elgon View area in Eldoret town. Kosgei has recorded a statement with the police in Eldoret alleging Kibor has eloped with his wife. The woman, along with her two children, went missing two weeks ago, according to Kosgey. But speaking on phone, Kibor denied the allegation but admitted he knows the woman. Kosgey, who works at Equator flower farm, says he has always suspected Kibor was moving with his wife and that he often gave her lifts in his car. “Kibor’s relationship with my wife started two months ago and I suspect they met at her at her work place,” said Kosgey. The woman works at a shop dealing with herbal medicine, where Kibor has been frequenting. Kibor said his age could not allow him to elope with someone’s wife and that he did not know the whereabouts of the woman. “Yes I know her and I once gave a lift just like any other friends whom I know,” he said. Kibor, who has four wives and is aged 86, said he was a family man who could not move with someone’s wife. Kibor asked Kosgey to stop tarnishing his name. “I even don’t know him in the first place. He should stop making such claims. Let him search for his wife ans children,” said Kibor. He said on the day he Kosgei’s wife a lift along with other people in the evening, it was raining heavily and he had no other motive. “I carried her in my car once alongside other people because we were heading the same direction and it was also raining,” said Kibor. He said they were heading to Kuinet area, near his home. Kosgey says his wife had lately refused to be dropped at her workplace using their motorcycle as usual. “I have been routinely dropping my wife to her work place every morning and picking her in the evening with my motorbike before she told me my services were no longer needed,” said Kosgey. He wants Kibor to keep the woman but return to him his 12 and 6 year old girls. Mercy said she took the children to her parents until her husband pays dowry and commits to take care of the family. “Let him do what he is supposed to do as a man instead of blaming Kibor over nothing,” she said.