A Fox was boasting to a Cat of its clever devices for escaping its enemies. “I have a whole bag of tricks to escape my enemies,” he said. “I have only one,” the Cat said; “… but I can generally manage with that.” Just at that moment they heard the cry of a pack of hounds coming towards them, and the Cat immediately scampered up a tree and hid herself. “This is my plan,” said the Cat. “What are you going to do?” The Fox thought first of one way, then of another, and while he was debating, the hounds came nearer and nearer, and at last the Fox in his confusion was caught up by the hounds and soon killed by the huntsmen. Miss Puss, who had been looking on, said, “Better one safe way than a hundred on which you cannot reckon.” There is growing heated debate in Kenya as people take different positions over the possible change to the Constitution. Such debates are always healthy for a country that seeks to grow its democratic institutions. But like the Fox, we must be careful not to be looking at too many directions yet we have a common goal of making the Constitution better for the future of this country. Politicians and wananchi agree on the need to reduce the wage bill, restructure the size of government, make it more efficient and reduce duplication. Kenyans need to step forward and direct what they want amended. We all agree that the Constitution must be changed but there is no consensus on the new structure. This process, if left to politicians, is prone to abuse Therefore, a time must come when these debates are properly structured in a manner that does not divide the nation. The last constitution review process got structured in 2008, when we formed the Committee of Experts and it took two years for us to finally agree on a proper document. In other words, constitutional change is not a walk in the park especially in a country that is easily divided by politics. Right now, what we have are just suggestions that have no form but which are threatening to divide the country just after it regained its footing from the divisive 2017 twin elections. Already, there appear to be camps, which are each pulling in a different direction, creating a cloud of uncertainty. This is a dangerous road for the country to take when we should be focusing on enhancing economic development. We must therefore not forget the Big Four Agenda, even as we focus our energy on Constitutional changes that may lead to a referendum. We have priorities that are not limited to good roads, access to water, improved healthcare, education and industrialisation. But if we must focus on the Constitutional changes, there are some things that we must agree on going forward. This will actually help us understand and agree if we really need to spend more than Sh10 billion on a referendum. To start with, we must clearly identify a mechanism that will help us audit our eight-year-old Constitution, with an aim of identifying the areas that need to be reviewed. It is not enough to just make suggestions on what we think is working or not without a proper audit. The Constitution also gives the processes that must be followed to amend the supreme law. We must then look at how best to fit our audit into these processes in a manner that does not polarise the country. Once we get this structural engagement in place, it will be impossible for a few individuals to use the referendum push as a platform to attack other leaders, or to politicise this noble initiative Lastly, the 2010 Constitution was heralded as the world’s most modern, and people-centered. Therefore, we must be vigilant and participate aggressively in deciding what will be amended. Political and communications
consultant @MachelWaikenda