The County Assemblies Forum has formed a special committee to look into wrangles among MCAs in various counties. Ugly scenes of fistfights and shootings have been witnessed in Homa Bay and Kisumu. The forum’s secretary general Eric Mwangi yesterday told the Star the committee is already looking into cases of eight county assemblies. They include Homa Bay, Kisumu, Nairobi, Nyamira, Migori and Nyandarua. The Members Service Committee is tasked with fostering peace and harmony among MCAs. “For the last one month or more, we have seen fighting in several county assemblies. We have initiated talks between speakers and MCAs to resolve differences through dialogue,” Mwangi said. The talks involves establishing and agreeing on how to resolve differences between MCAs and county assemblies top leadership. Other assemblies that have been involved in chaos emanating from leadership wrangles between MCAs and the executives include Bungoma, Taita Taveta, Busia, Kakamega and Murang’a. Read:Drama as two Nakuru MCAs engage in fist fight over boyfriend In Nyandarua and Murang’a, the wrangles involved fights over house leadership roles. For instance, chaos erupted in the Nyandarua county assembly when Majority leader Kamau Gathungu attempted to hold on the position against the will of agitated members who had removed him. The MCAs have accused speaker Wahome Ndegwa of bias for failing to recognise the new house leadership. Ndegwa said Gathungu’s removal was illegal. MCAs want Gathungu replaced by Wambugu King’ori. Ndegwa was forced to adjourn sittings after chaos erupted. “We have to sit them down and know their problems. Some of these fights are emanating from the executive. We’ll also engage the Council of Governors to ensure the executives and the assemblies work harmoniously,” Mwangi said. He said the committee was given two months to complete its work. There have been two chaotic incidences in Kisumu this year. First, MCAs clashed over an attempt to impeach Governor Anyang Nyong’o in June. Last week, there were shootings in the assembly premises over a chaotic attempt to impeach speaker Onyango Oloo. MCAs have accused Oloo of mismanaging the assembly. See: [VIDEO] Kisumu MCAs in fist fight after rumours of plot to impeach Nyong'o Sergent-at-arms shot in the air to calm the situation after rowdy members charged at temporary speaker Eric Agola for adjourning sittings without notice through a motion. MCAs in Kakamega and Homa Bay have tried to impeach their speakers resulting in chaotic scenes. In Nairobi, speaker Beatrice Elachi was removed. She went to court and got orders that extended her stay in office. But MCAs stormed the office and tried to eject her. There were chaos in that attempt. Chaos in Bungoma and Busia assemblies were prompted by bids to impeach the governors over various claims including rolling out of projects and management of funds. “We are building capacity among MCAs. Capacity building and restoring public image among members cannot happen in one day but it’s a continuous process,” Mwangi said. The forum expects to receive Sh108 million contribution in this financial year from the 47 county assemblies to fund its operations and activities including training MCAs on ethics law-making. “We have also signed an MoU with Kenya School of Government to train members on how to behave and articulate issues,” he said. Also read: Wajir MCAs in fist fight record statements with investigators Click here for the latest political news        