Thousands of residents and visitors were unable to relieve themselves in public toilets at the weekend after youths invaded and closed at least 10 facilities in the CBD. Those closed were in Uhuru Park, Aga Khan Walk, Jevanjee Gardens, Railways Bus Station and Latema Road. Efforts to get comments from county government leaders were unsuccessful. Environment executive Larry Wambua and director Lawrence Mwangi did not return calls or respond to text messages. Central police boss Robinson Thuku said the youths invaded the toilets and chased away their operators. “These were goons. They didn’t have any letter to show they were given permission by the county or the courts to close or run the toilets,” he said. Thuku said the county had not communicated to him about any plans to hand over the management of the toilets to the youths. “I’m talking to the OCS so we can send our officers to open those toilets. What these youths did is illegal,” he said. By midday yesterday, a toilet at Jevanjee Gardens was still locked. Residents complained bitterly. “We don’t know what is happening. I’ve walked all the way from Uhuru Highway relieve myself here, only to find this toilet closed,” Mary Okwamo said. Public Toilets Operators’ Association of Kenya chairman Tom Makale said the youths took over the five toilets he ran in Uhuru Park and Railways Bus Station. He accused the county government of being behind the takeover. Makale said the city administration “had all along planned to take charge of the facilities through illegal means”. “What’s happening is unfair. The county has refused to listen to us and is now sending goons to frustrate us and take over our investments,” he said. Governor Mike Sonko’s administration has been at odds with the operators since July when the city boss ordered that all public toilets be free. Sonko announced plans to have the county manage the toilets. Infighting among the operators and dishonest dealings were hurting residents, he said. Sonko accused the operators of mismanagement. “Those running the toilets have initiated a culture of corruption which has led to fights. They should surrender the toilets to the county because we’ll not allow our residents to suffer at their hands,” he said in July. The city has 63 public toilets 17 in the CBD and 46 in estates and markets. The operators charge Sh10 per visit. It also has about 517 private toilets.