Deputy president William Ruto is causing tension and confusion with his 'premature' nationwide campaigns, Likoni MP Mishi Mboko has said. This was in reaction to Ruto's claim that Opposition leader Raila Odinga was planning to kick him out of the Jubilee Party. Ruto left ODM to form United Republican Party that teamed with The National Alliance in 2013. URP was merged with TNA and other parties to form the Jubilee Party. On Sunday, Ruto while in Mombasa called Raila a "conman". The DP is also on record claiming his wealth was genuinely amassed, shrugging off the corruption tag. Related: [VIDEO] Raila wants me out of Jubilee, says Ruto The latest outburst by Kenya's second in command that Raila was scheming against him has attracted fury from the former Prime Minister's backers, including Mboko. "Raila is a respected global leader and that is why he is making all those tours... everyone knows who the conman and the corrupt is," she said. "Leaders like President Uhuru Kenyatta are not politicking but giving back to their electorates through Big Four. Their focus is to unite this country." Mboko said the March 9 handshake, which she accuses Ruto of being cagey about, has brought calmness in the country and must not be fought. Also read: Tell Kenyans deeper meaning of handshake, Kalonzo asks Uhuru and Raila She spoke on Wednesday at the Likoni School for Blind during the unveiling of a Sh7 million bus. Mboko dismissed Ruto's forays at the Coast saying the deputy president was "racing against himself and cannot claim an early win." She warned ODM rebels trooping to the DP's rallies that they will "lose big time" in 2022. "We saw what happened to Zainab Chidzuga - former Kwale woman representative, and ex-Kilifi South MP Mustapha Iddi," she said. The former ODM members lost their respective seats after supporting Jubilee in the 2017 general election. This time, Mohamed Ali (Nyali, Independent), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni, Wiper) and Badi Twalib (Jomvu, ODM) are Mombasa politicians supporting the DP. In Kilifi, Aisha Jumwa (Malindi, ODM), Owen Baya (Kilifi North, ODM) and Paul Katana (Kaloleni, ODM) have announced their support for Ruto. In Kwale, Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga, JP), Suleiman Dori (Msambweni, ODM), Kassim Tandaza (Matuga, ANC) and Benjamin Tayari (Kinango, ODM) back Ruto's bid. Voi MP Jons Mlolwa (ODM) remains the only lawmaker in Taita Taveta county to announce his intention to support the DP. Lamu East MP Athman Sharif (JP) has also said Ruto is his choice in 2022 polls. Click here for the latest political news 