Culture is the major reasons few people buy funeral insurance in Kenya. A survey commissioned by the Association of Kenya Insurance and conducted by Ipsos Kenya Research indicates most Kenyans still rely on fundraising for burials. The study showed that contributions from family and friends as well as from welfare associations are the main ways of funding funeral expenses. Other ways involve borrowing from banks, saccos, informal lenders and other financiers. “Death has become the second main household risk factor after drought and as a result funeral preparations are becoming increasingly important,” AKI executive director, Tom Gichuhi said. The survey reported that only three per cent of Kenyans have taken out funeral covers. In Nyanza and Western regions for instance, the research found that both regions have high costs of transport and food over and above other funeral expenses. They also believe in cementing graves to prevent bad spirits or anyone from stealing the body, and keeping the body for some days in order for the family to come to terms with the loss. Speaking on phone to the Star, Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya chairman Nelson Omolo said the practices mainly revolve around the ‘harambee spirit’. “The spirit has worked well for a time, but due to evolving economic times one is unlikely to raise enough money unless you are a known figure, hence, the surest way is to go for a funeral plan,” he said. The funeral policy was also found not to suit Muslims, who mostly live at the Coast. This is because the funeral plan payment is meant to be paid within 24 hours hence if the body will be buried earlier than this period then it would be illogical to buy insurance. In addition, the study found that communities which bury their dead within 24 hours, are estimated to spend about Sh10,000, a small amount that can be raised among members of the community. On average, funeral expenses cost families and friends between Sh50,000 to Sh300,000 while in cases where the deceased was hospitalised, the funeral expenses averaged Sh400,000 to Sh2.5 million setting back families. The Maasai community was also found to bury the dead very fast, while communities from Central region are believed to have, for a long time shied away from providing refreshments to mourners. According to the study, they come together to mourn, pray, dig the grave, and fundraise through families and social groups as opposed to taking up a funeral plan. In an interview with Ann Nzisa, her Kamba communityfrom Eastern region has funeral committees that collect at least Sh100 monthly contributions from members of a clan for funeral expenses. “Members of the clan who do not contribute are likely to be sidelined in terms of financial support when they are bereaved. Unfortunately they struggle a lot to meet the expenses on their own.” Even so, different communities say there is over-commercialisation of funerals. They survey said suppliers in the funeral industry continued to introduce more sophisticated coffins and funerals, exerting unnecessary pressure. BIMA Intermediaries Association of Kenya chairman Washington Ndegea told the Star that most cultures don’t like to speak of deathand they consider it a taboo. “It becomes an issue when you take funeral cover for your parents, it raises a lot of suspicion among family members about motive,” he said. Ndegea said the only way to increase sale of insurance among the communities is to educate them on the importance of the funeral payment plan.