Many men are physically abused and injured by their wives and intimate partners, but they suffer in silence because they are ashamed. Dr Joan Mwende, the Embu county Gender executive, and nominated MCA Elizabeth Kivai, said an increasing number of women are being reported for beating their husbands. The problem pales in comparison to the epidemic of violence against girls and women. Dr Mwende said only few men report gender violence to police or gender department for help. “This is a matter of concern in our county and it’s a big problem because violence against any spouse is illegal should be dealt with accordingly,” said Dr Mwende. They spoke at Riakanau market in Mbeere South subcounty on Sunday during a public meeting in which residents aired their views on gender, children’s social services and development issues. The two said male victims of gender violence are often beaten and denied conjugal rights for shirking their responsibilities. Mwende said beating men is not a solution. Mwende said that a man in Mavuria ward of Mbeere South subcounty is an regular victim of gender violence. He recently had his teeth knocked out by his abusive wife. She said an officer from the department tried to persuade him to report the attack to the police. However, he declined, saying it was a domestic issue. women possessed by demons The two women said violence against men can be limited if men report to the police or the gender department. They said abusive wives can be jailed and men must not suffer silently. Dr Mwende said some husbands who are denied conjugal right have been defiling under-aged children. She condemned rape of children. MCA Kivai said violence against husbands was the “work of demons” and said Christians should pray and live according to the Bible. Kivai, who is also an ordained church leader, said she recently prayed for a man who complained of being mistreated and denied food by his wife. Only after prayers did she realise he was being denied hisrights. The MCA said it was ungodly for a woman to mistreat her husband, as the Bible teaches wives to be submissive to their husbands and the men to love their wives. The last Kenya Demographic and Health Survey in 2014 showed that 48 per cent and 43 per cent of men in Eastern and Central regions, respectively, report spousal violence. Abuse ranges from being pushed or shaken to being seriously injured. At the national level, 24 per cent of ever-married men have experienced spousal violence, the report said. The survey further noted that sexual violence committed by a partner was not as prevalent as physical violence. Among women, those aged between 30 and 49 years had experienced the highest number of cases either in their lifetime or in the last 12 months before the survey.