I have decided that my body is an automobile and Rob will be my mechanic. Whenever I go for trips out of town, I’ll simply take him along. He has no money, so I guess he’ll appreciate me picking up the tab. He doesn’t need to know they are perks of my job. If he’s very thankful for my generosity, I suppose that will translate to him continuing to be the best darn mechanic ever. I text him: Me: Fancy a weekend away? It’s on me! Consider it an early birthday treat. Him: That sounds great! I have a busy Saturday morning, but I’m free in the afternoon. Me: So, shall we say around 2pm? Him: That’s fine. Where are we going? I mention a five-star hotel. I tell him he can have a spa treat — whichever massage takes his fancy — he can swim, etc. Thereafter, we’ll spend the night and check out the next day. He agrees, sounding excited. Good. I’m going to get my pipes cleaned out this weekend! We don’t speak for most of the week and on Thursday morning, I text him. Me: Hey, any progress on the exercise bike? The backstory on this is that Rob had borrowed an exercise bike from me. The day we met, we were doing a shoot for my magazine, and this was one of the props. He mentioned it later after we started shagging, saying he could really use one of those because he doesn’t have a gym membership at the moment and wanted to stay in shape. He didn’t ask me to give it to him (maybe he wanted to know where he could purchase one or was thinking out loud), but I offered to let him borrow it until he could sort out his membership. Best girlfriend ever, that’s me! “Great! Yes, you can have it back in a couple of months,” he said. “60 days?” I asked for clarity, not wanting him to think he can keep it for longer. “Yup! No problem,” he responded. Well, the 60 days were now up. It was now more like 70 days in, hence my text message. Rob didn’t respond. In the evening, I sent him another text with just a question mark. He responded six hours later. He said something about having a really busy day and dining at some big shot’s house. He ended the text saying he’ll call me the following morning. By Friday evening, he still hadn’t called. I sent him another text. “You may think that all this ‘I’m so busy’ crap is attractive, but it’s really a turn-off. You can’t take five seconds to respond to a message?” He didn’t respond to that, either, so I’m really seething. The next day I still haven’t heard from him. We were supposed to be meeting at 2pm for our getaway. Ok, two can play this game. I went to meet some friends of mine and carried on with my day, waiting to see if he’d call. He did not. In the evening, I drove to the hotel and checked in. Still no call from the man. I waited until it was late — around 11pm — and sent a video of the room. “You make me pay for all this and you don’t show up? You’re special. Well done.” He responds immediately. Him: You should know what role you play in my silence. I don’t respond because I don’t want to fight. Me: So you ignore me and it’s my fault? You don’t show up today and that’s also my fault? When will you ever take responsibility for your own shortcomings?