Kenya Ports Authority wants a suit challenging its decision to transfer some of its operations to Nairobi to be dismissed. KPA said that is an abuse of the court and it should not waste its time in hearing the matter. Three Mombasa residents moved to court challenging the transfer of some port operations to Embakasi Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. Petitioners William Rapogi, Asha Omar and Gerald Kithi are also challenging an agreement between KPA and Kenya Railways, allowing transportation of containers to the ICD through the SGR. But KPA, through its lawyer Githu Muigai, said the bone of contention was policing of the port operations. He said the issue was an inter-gorvenmental controversy which should be left to be handled by the Mombasa and national governments. Githu said the dispute resolution mechanism gives an opportunity for the two levels of governments to mediate on the issues surrounding the operations. He said the law does not allow private citizens such as the petitioners to negotiate on the port’s operations.Githu said the petitioners need to forward their grievances to the county government, which will then negotiate on their behalf. “The matter can be determined, but it will open up controversy between the inter-governments,”he said. Nani Mungai, who also represents KPA, told the five-judge bench the court should stay the matter as a similar matter had been filed in a different court. He said a matter was filed by the Container Freight Station questioning the validity of a contract between KPA and Kenya Railways which allowed transfer of containers through the SGR. He added that if the court proceeds and determines the matter, there was risk of having different directions which will cause confusion to all parties. He said the matter should be stayed or dismissed pending the determination of the other issue. “The petitioner can seek to be enjoined in the other matter which seeks similar prayers,” he said. Mungai also noted the matter had been tackled when the court directed that operations of Kenya ferry services be handled by the national government. The petitioners and interested parties objected the dismissal of the petition. Petitioners’ lawyer Caroline Oduor said the suit was a matter of life and death which affects thousands of Mombasa residents. Oduor said the matter was about violation of human rights which has left many who depended on the port “destitute”. She said the court needs to give an interpretation of which government should handle which functions. “Dismissing the petition at this juncture will be premature because we need interpretation of the law,” she said. His sentiments were echoed by Mombasa county government senior counsel Ferouz Norjein and Muhuri’s counsel Willis Otieno who joined the matter as interested parties.      