The National Treasury has finally released Sh1.4 billion to pay maize farmers from today, Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich has said. The more than 500 farmers have desperately waited to be paid for the last nine months. Rotich says should the money be inadequate, additional funding would be availed to the National Cereals and Produce Board. He said after vetting, it was confirmed that 95 per cent of those who supplied maize to the board were genuine farmers and deserve to be paid. “I can assure you that the farmers will be paid and if the money won’t be enough, I will work to ensure NCPB gets extra funding,” said Rotich on Saturday. On Friday, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said 514 small-scale farmers, out of the 900 who have been vetted will be given priority during payment. He said the small-scale farmers are owed less than Sh2 million. Wamalwa said 1,154 farmers collected claim forms and 1,140 returned them for verification. The CS said 226 farmers will be investigated further. The farmers held two stormy meetings with senators in Eldoret last week, prompting the government to intervene in the pay row. Rotich made the assurance about the payments at Kaptagat in Uasin Gishu on Saturday during the burial of Lt Gen (Rtd) Major John Sawe. Present were Senator Margaret Kamar, Governor Jackson Mandago, Moiben MP Sila Tiren and Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry chairman Kiprono Kittony. Rotich said he is aware that senators and MPs are pushing for reforms in the agriculture sector but  all stakeholders must be involved. He said while agriculture was devolved, the government still plays a role in formulating policies for the sector. On taxation, Rotich said although the cost of living has gone up, the government is working to ensure it is controlled. He said traders should not take advantage of the eight per cent tax on petroleum products to unnecessarily hike prices. The CS said inflating prices is unpatriotic. Kittony asked the CS to ensure suppliers and contractors are also paid for services or work done at all levels in the country.