Seamers Lucas Oluoch and Elijah Otieno have been recalled to the national cricket squad for the forthcoming ICC World Cricket League (WCL) tournament in Oman. The two were drafted into the team at the expense of rookies Jasraj Kundi and Gerald Mwendwa after a section of senior players threatened to walk out of the team if there were no changes in the final setup. Over six players, who had been named for the crucial fixture last week, felt the selectors were unfair in their picks especially after giving Kundi and Mwendwa the nod at the expense of senior players. The move to overlook top players prompted boycott threat ahead of the tour. Oluoch and Otieno were recalled to the squad after a lengthy closed door between a section of the interim committee and the players at Cricket Kenya offices in Ruaraka to end the stalemate. The meeting also questioned the criteria used to name Collins Obuya as the new captain, replacing Shem Obado. The committee defended Obuya’s appointment, saying the 37-year-old all-rounder was the best person to lead the team into the future. But the players and a section of the committee members in the meeting were not satisfied with the answers given on his selection. Hours later, Obuya’s elder brother David Obuya who is the committee secretary and was part of the Ruaraka meeting, sent out a mail to the committee indicating that his brother has withdrawn from the Oman tour. In the mail, the older Obuya confirmed that there had been a problem with the team to Oman and was positive that they are getting closer to a solution. “I guess we are getting closer to a solution on the team to Oman. Collins Obuya has withdrawn from the tour,” the letter said. He added that they will also be talking to Mwendwa to also pull out of the tour. Mwendwa, David and Collins play for Obuya Academy, which was founded by Obuya brothers Kennedy, David and Collins. However, even before the dust could settle on his withdrawal, David sent another mail addressed to the committee asking them to ignore the previous one, insisting that he drafted it to ‘confuse social media’. “Collins and Gerald are available for Oman. The earlier mail was to cause confusion on social media. I hope you are not making any changes to the team,” David said in a letter addressed to Tariq Iqbal, the acting chairman of the panel of selectors.