The developer of Seefar Apartments, which have been earmarked for demolition, twice ignored notices by relevant authorities to stop the construction, Water Resource Authority has said. WRA said the building sits on the riparian land of both Nairobi Dam and Ngong River. WRA regional manager John Kinyanjui said they issued Edermann Property with stop orders in 2011 when the construction of the apartments started and again in 2012, but both orders were ignored. “The first order was issued in the initial stage of construction in an attempt to stop them from excavation until the riparian area was marked. But they ignored,” Kinyanjui said. He and WRA divisional manager Naftali Mutuma appeared before Planning Committee of the county assembly on Wednesday. The committee chaired by Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu is seeking to establish if the building stands on riparian land or if it was approved by WRA and National Environmental Management Authority. Nema and WRA issued a 14-day demolition notice to Edermann, home owners and tenants, saying the apartment stands on th embankment of Nairobi Dam. The notice was extended to 30 days following a meeting of the developers and home buyers. Seefar Apartments is a 12-storey building with 288 units. It houses more than 1,000 people. WRA admitted that Edermann had consulted them before they built the apartment and but said they clearly marked for them the location where the riparian land was. The demarcations, he said, were not observed. Kinyanjui said they issued the second notice in 2012, after they realised that Edermann was excavating soil and filling it in the dam’s reservoir. But the committee questioned why the authority allowed construction of the building to go ahead instead of enforcing the order at the initial stage. Kinyanjui did not explain why the authority failed to enforce the order for six years. LOOMING DISASTER He said they only realised this year that the dam was leaking - a sign that the dam might collapse -thus forcing it and Nema to notify Edermann of the looming disaster early this month. This led to the issuance of the demolition notice. “It doesn’t matter on the silence but the fact is we had given them two stop orders and no building is worth the lives of people,” Kinyanjui told the committee. He said that lives of people residing at Seefar could be jeopardised if the apartment is not demolished because the dam is at risk of collapsing as its wall was interfered with during construction of the building. “As per the engineers, the slope of earth dams should be between one and three meters, but in this case, it was reduced to between one to 1.5 meters. So, literally, Seefar apartments went into the Nairobi’s Dam embankment,” Kinyajui said. Yesterday, a land surveyor from Kolmana Geomatic Consultant Kenya claimed the building was 42 metres from the highest point from the embankment.