Who is this giving ODM party leader Raila Odinga sleepless nights in Migori? Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen tweeted on Saturday. "Who is this 27-year-old Eddy who is giving Baba sleepless nights? This young man is bold and courageous," Murkomen said. He was referring to Migori Senate candidate Eddy Muok Oketch of Federal Party of Kenya, who is perceived to be backed by Deputy President William Ruto. Raila has been campaigning for ODM candidate Ochillo Ayacko. But Kenyans on Twitter went wild with others accusing Jubilee in having a hand in Oketch's campaigns. "Your boss' candidate," ODM director of communications Philip Etale said. @Jackie93092223 sad "He works for your master." "The most unfortunate news for this boy is that he has perceived links to ' the enemy of the Luo and therefore unelectable," @JamesOAdhanja said. He added, "If he was old enough he would know what politicians like Okiki Amayo, Odongo Omamo, Ndolo Ayah and Mathews Ogutu went through." @beans_fresh said "Baba is already Giving You and your team sleepless night." The Migori by-election will be held on Monday where the rivalry between Raila and Ruto is expected to play out. On Friday, Raila ended a two-day campaign for Ayacko at Migori County Stadium, where most speakers criticised Ruto. Raila did not directly refer to Ruto in his address, but his lieutenants took a swipe at the DP and accused him of bankrolling the Federal Party of Kenya candidate. Details: Raila allies accuse Ruto of funding Migori opponent Others were confused whether to support Eddy or Ayacko for the race. "I really salute him: I will always support the youth. Kesi baadaye," @jeremy_magu said. @KuisanMacharia said "Oketch is a portrait of the leadership we need in Kenya. He is Young, smart and  has the ability to transform Migori." "The "youth" is not a qualification," @the_nilote said. @ArigiB said "Is this the way we are going to shun leaders who are after bringing development in the name of being sponsored by Rutto? #backward thinking onego wawe jo Nyanza bwana." @Paul_Koskei said "I hope Eddy wins.... To break this political godfathers myth who are turning to be dictators." "Ayacko is old but he will carry the day because he enjoys the support of Heavyweights like Raila though the young guy is seriously encroaching," @RonoFestus5 said. @nyakwara_albert said "I have nothing against this young man but on 8th October I'll vote for Ayacko because he has demonstrated that he can fight the corrupt government." He added "Eddy Muok just want to be our senator because he's a youth. Say no to sponsorship." Click here for the latest political news