The government plans to revive the Kinangop wind power project, Central regional coordinator Wilson Njega has said. The Sh13.4 billion project stalled three years ago after residents raised concerns about the manner in which it was being implemented. It was mired in claims of bribery, half-truths, deceit, bureaucracy and incompetence. Questions were also raised about landownership and contractual terms and community awareness. On Tuesday, Njenga said public views will be considered before the relaunch to avert problems that led to the collapse. He spoke as he toured Wanjohi in Kipipiri and Githabai in Kinangop during a crackdown on illicit brews, bhang and gaming machines. “It was unfortunate that after failing to take off, directors of the wind power project withdrew from the location and moved to the International Court of Arbitration to compel the government to compensate them,” Njenga said. state wins Sh31bn After a two-week hearing last year. the London-based court dismissed the claims by Kinangop Wind Park Limited against the government The court ordered the firm to pay more than Sh31 billion ($311,649,022 ). The firm had sought compensation and damages. It cited political interference as its reason for leaving. The arbitration court found that the company failed to engage with residents and educate them on the project before it acquired licences. The plant was to produce 60.8 MW. It stalled because of “bad politics and false information fed to the residents”, Njenga said. He said the investors were not sincere and quit after creating a mess, running out of resources and using politicians to cause hostility among residents. levy on water Coordinator Njenga said the government has acquired a new investor to take charge of the revival. Once public participation is completed, the government and the investor will sign an MoU to ensure no one uses the project as a cash cow. Njega said some politicians use public forums to fight some institutions to gain political mileage, but the government will not tolerate that. The administrator was reacting to calls by some Kinangop leaders to have the county impose a levy on water supplied to Nairobi. Gitahbai MCA Samuel Rimui and his nominated counterpart Margaret Wanjiru sought to have Nyandarua benefit from water drawn from the county. He wanted the water metered so the county administration can charge some rates. But the regional boss urged politicians to respect the Constitution when making demands over natural resources meant for the national good. He said leaders must follow the laid-down structures of engagement to avert inciting residents or damaging public property.