National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) President, Paul Tergat, has called upon sports stakeholders to hasten the validation of the Kenya Academy of Sports (KAS) standards and regulations which will ensure improved sports management in the country. The validation process, which was deliberated upon by stakeholders for the second time on Wednesday at the Kasarani Indoor Arena, seeks to formulate policies and guidelines to govern different sports at an academy level. Tergat, who serves as KAS chairman, said the regulations will help govern sports in a better way besides tapping and nurturing idle talents through their coaching programmes. “I urge stakeholders to hasten the process of validation to improve sports governance at academy level. It will help raise performance in different disciplines and as KAS, we are on course of achieving this. Once the regulations are passed, they will boost in tapping and nurturing of idle talents. KAS is seeking to make sure that there proper and well structured coaching and training that will culminate in the tapping and nurturing of the abundant sports talent in the country,” said Tergat. Tergat said KAS will work with sports federations, universities and other stakeholders to complete the curriculum for the first set of six disciplines include football, athletics, volleyball, basketball, rugby and golf. The Chief Administration Secretary of Sports (CAS) Hassan Noor Hassan, who presided over the workshop on behalf of Sports CS, Rashid Echesa, said the implementation of the KAS regulations and guidelines will impact positively on the youth and give them adequate knowledge and skills on sports. He further lauded KAS for laying good structures that have set the standard for Kenyan teams to excel in their respective disciplines. “If these standards and regulations are passed, they will impact positively on our youth in a good way, equipping them with technical knowledge,” said Noor. He also urged KAS to come up with a mode of design to be implemented in all constituencies with minimal space. Other speakers in the workshop included secretary of Sports Farah Kassim, KAS Chief Executive officer Gordon Oluoch, Kenya National Sports Council (KNSC) treasurer Charles Nyaberi, Football Kenya Federation CEO Robert Muthomi, Douglas Ratemo, Professor Monny Wekesa, Humphrey Khayange, Shedrack Maluki, Elyna Shiveka and Kenya Netball Federation (KNF) chairlady Emmaculate Kabutha among others.