A woman has been abandoned by her husband and family at AVI Matercare Hospital in Isiolo after giving birth to triplets. Elizabeth Kadogo, 38, who hails from Kakili in Burat ward, delivered the bundles of joy on October 8. However, this did not go down well with family members. She has been left helpless and depended on the hospital's management for clothes and milk. Kadogo does not have enough breast milk to feed her babies. Matron Emily Jebiwott said this is the first case of triplets delivered at the hospital. She said Kadogo complained of lower abdominal pains when she reported for a check-up. Upon examination, medics noticed she was carrying three babies. She was operated on to ensure safe delivery. Nurse in charge Luke Mutugi said two girls are identical and they shared a placenta. The third child, a boy, had his own. One of the babies developed jaundice and was treated while in the nursery. On Kadogo's delivery date, her husband, 40, went to the hospital but was shocked to learn that his wife had given birth to triplets. He went away and never returned. Her other relatives also grew cold feet after seeing the babies. However, Kadogo has not lost hope. She believes her husband may have gone to take care of their other three children and will return. They are aged 6, 16 and 18. In her first delivery,  Kadogo gave birth to twins, but one of the babies died. Kadogo said her husband is jobless and burns charcoal for a living. She named her kids Emily, Jacinta and Simon. The girls were named after two sisters who helped her, while the hospital's donor is known as Simon. Sister Emily said Kadogo does not owe any medical fees because she had enrolled in the "Linda Mama Programme". She is, however, concerned about her well-being and the babies when they leave the hospital. She has appealed for help. In the Turkana culture, to which Kadogo and her husband belong, giving birth to more than one child is considered abnormal. Residents associate the parents with evil deeds. Click here for the latest political news 