Kenya plans to set up a gold refinery to help small scale miners in the west of the country, the Petroleum and Mining Ministry said on Friday. The government is seeking consultants to advise on construction of the refinery In the Western region, gold mining is a major community activity within Kakamega, Migori, Trans Mara and Narok counties. With most of Kenya’s small-scale gold deposits largely transacted on black market an approximate Sh16 billion of the commodity is smuggled out of the country annually. Kenya has proven deposits of titanium, gold and coal but its mining sector is a relatively small contributor to national output. However, revenues are expected to grow as new mines start production. While revenues from mining grew 2.1 per cent to Sh23.8 billion last year, according to the 2018 economic survey, the government is seeking to meet its Sh700 billion revenue target under the Vision 2030. activities of the mining
and quarrying and construction recorded the most notable deceleration in growths
during the review period The new refiner will provide services to help vulnerable, artisanal and small scale miners and other local producers meet international standards, the ministry said in a statement. “The aim of the project is to improve the livelihoods of the beneficiary community, regional economy and that of Kenya as a whole,” the ministry said. It added that the refinery will also create new jobs. While Kenya is a small gold producer, it has attracted investors like London-listed Goldplat Plc, which operates a mine in south western Kenya. In 2016, a local firm Avalite Mining Company also announced the start refining gold and other precious metals for domestic and export markets. Following completion of the first phase of the project by the Kenyan-owned mineral-dealing and processing company, there have been no further progress reports on the same. Establishment of the refinery was estimated to cost $50 million (Sh5.1 billion) upon completion with operations expected to begin in April 2017 last year. Kenya’s most successful mining operation has been Base Resources’ subsidiary, Base Titanium, whose $305 million project in Kwale County in the south coast region, shipped its first mineral consignment in 2014. Titanium accounted for over half of revenues Kenya got from mining last year.