A new international funding mechanism called
Education Outcome Fund (EOF) as currently instituted is likely to favour
private schools over public ones in the developing countries where it is being piloted. The programme has been initiated by The Education
Commission and the Global Steering Group for Impact Investment. The initiative is modelled around a financial instrument called
an ‘impact bond’ which is a results-based contract where funders,
service providers, and investors are bound by a common goal—the achievement of
outcomes. If the goal of the EOF is to reward service providers in the
education system who post the best outcomes and results, then top performing
private schools in Kenya are likely to benefit more than their public
counterparts. It is common knowledge that private schools perform
better than public schools, thereby positioning the former to get the lion's share
from the fund. Kenya has been identified for piloting of the project in Africa. The project seeks to raise $1 billion from philanthropists, donors,
banks, foundations and governments to invest in what delivers the best results.
Other countries include
Burkina Faso, Ghana, Jordan, Morocco, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa and
Zambia. Private schools will receive financing
from donors through national aid budgets if they meet the outcomes
targets. This is likely to elicit hot debate on choosing to directly fund private education providers rather than strengthening public systems. Already, Knut has urged the Education ministry not to take part in the pilot
phase, saying it will contribute to commercialisation and
commodification of education, and weaken efforts to strengthen and expand the provision of
inclusive and equitable quality free education for all. Kenya is testing a new
curriculum that aims to develop a holistic approach to teaching. The EOF is likely to compromise the quality of
teaching and learning by choosing to narrowly focus on outcomes
rather than the development of the whole child. The previous 8-4-4 system, which is set to be replaced with the
2-6-3-3 competence-based curriculum, focused on students’ test scores while ignoring other key aspects such as developing skills and talents. Schools focused too much on teaching to pass exams. Those that did not measure up were labelled ‘failures’. To tap
into this new financing, schools are likely to revert to this old model, hindering implementation f the new curriculum. In addition, the fund is likely to hamper the achievement of Sustainable Development Goal 4 of ensuring inclusive
and quality education and promoting lifelong learning for all. According to Unesco, enrolment in primary education in
developing countries has reached 91 per cent but 57 million children remain out
of school. More than half of these are in sub-Saharan Africa. To get all children into school, global leaders and
decision-makers will need to address the root causes of today’s learning crisis
that sees so many students still out school and consider how education will be transformed. This should also be aligned with governments’
priorities areas in education to demonstrate the value for money on investment. PR and communications specialist