Langata police have recommended the prosecution of Citizen TV anchor Jaque Maribe’s fiancé Joseph Irungu, alias Jowie, with the offence of attempted suicide. He is the prime suspect in the murder of Monica Kimani in Kilimani. The murder case against Irungu is still pending under investigations by DCI officers from the homicide unit on Kiambu Road. Investigators said yesterday they had sufficient evidence to prove that Irungu attempted to take his life on the night of September 21 at the home of Maribe at Royal Park Estate in Langata. DCI officers from Lang’ata police have been probing how Irungu was shot on his left side of his chest. Irungu and Maribe had reported to Langata police that the man was shot by criminals on a motorbike who trailed them to their residence. According to the initial police report, Irungu claimed to have dropped his fiancé home after which he went outside and confronted the men who shot him and fled. Investigations have, however, revealed Irungu was not shot by criminals as he alleged and that he attempted to commit suicide. At least six people, among them Brian Kassaine - a close associate and neighbour - have recorded statements with the investigators. Kassaine and his wife Catherine have recorded almost similar statements on the events of the night when Irungu is said to have shot himself with a gun he had borrowed from the businessman. Catherine was the last witness to record her statement with the police on Tuesday. Maribe’s househelp and two security guards at the home have also recorded their statements with the police. Read: Maribe and fiance’s accounts at odds with friend’s version Also See: How police are linking Jacque Maribe to Monica Kimani's murder They will be testifying in the case in which Irungu will face the charge of attempted suicide. If found guilty, Irungu could be jailed for a maximum of two years. Catherine in her statements told the investigators how she and her husband were woken up by a bang on their door on the night when Irungu shot himself. Catherine said she and her husband took Irungu to Langata Hospital after he shot himself. Fresh details of the statements recorded by the husband also emerged yesterday. The 35-year-old Kassaine, who has since been arrested and detained for 10 days at the Langata police station, revealed how Irungu went to his house and asked if he had kerosene. Kassainee told investigators he told Irungu he did not have the paraffin, after which he left. He later learnt Irungu needed paraffin to light a fire to burn some clothes. At the Muthaiga police station where Irungu is remanded, investigators said he declined to record further statements. “We are holding onto his initial statement,” an investigator said. Click here for the latest political news          