Coast MPs have defended themselves against accusations they are doing little to address persistent land disputes in the region. Land clashes dog the region despite legislators from the Coast forming a third of the parliamentary land committee. Out of 19 members of the committee, six are from the Coast. They are Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), who is the committee vice chair, Ali Mbogo (Kisauni), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Mishi Mboko (Likoni) and Owen Baya (Kilifi North). On Friday, Mboko said implementing bodies including the Lands ministry and the National Land Commission are to blame for the unending problems. “We have done a lot but the implementation part is the responsibility of the Lands ministry and the NLC. There is weakness on their part,” said Mboko on the phone. Last week, there were four demonstrations over land issues. Residents of Jumba Ruins in Mtwapa, those of Kijipwa settlement scheme and Chembe Kibabamuche settlement scheme in Watamu, all in Kilifi county, pointing fingers at the ‘toothless’ NLC. In Kisauni constituency, Nguu Tatu residents are tussling with Bandari Sacco for the ownership of a 60-acre piece. The residents say they have lost faith in their legislators and the land commission. The 600 families in the Kijipwa settlement scheme have asked the NLC to ignore sideshows during hearing of cases of disputed land in the area. They held demonstrations last Monday to protest attempts by tycoons to force them to surrender the scheme.Their spokesman Luck Mbaga they have documents to support ownership of the scheme. “Let the commission expedite the regularization process of the 350- acre plot to ensure we are issued with title deeds,” he said. At Nguu Tatu, Bandari Sacco CEO Joseph Bee said they bought the land from Hussein Dairy Farm in 2011 for about Sh300 million. “There was no one on it. Those who claim ownership are not squatters but invaders sponsored by known politicians and businessmen,” Bee said. On Friday, Coast MPs said they have done enough to address the land problems. Mwinyi said the biggest challenge with the land disputes in the region is the proliferation of fake ownership documents.