I attended the much anticipated full year earnings release at InterContinental Hotel on Friday. This was the second set of results delivered by CEO Rebecca Miano and against a backdrop of what has been an ''annus horribilis'' for the energy sector. Rebecca's and KenGen's power of pull was evidenced by the full house and the fact that practically every energy stakeholder was in attendance. Water CS Simon Chelogoi said, ''I felt it is important to celebrate a Kenya In success story." "If there are any organisations we are very proud of without any controversy, it is Kengen,'' said CAS Dhadho. ''We remained resilient in turbulent waters,'' said Rebecca in her opening remarks. "Our Message today is, KenGen has produced good results and a dividend and the best is yet to come'' Let me lay out the earnings. FY revenue clocked a +4.27 per cent gain to register 45.29b, [steam revenue was the outlier at 6.22b +19.9%]. Electricity revenue from geothermal power plants increased by six per cent from Sh16.1b in the previous year to Sh17.1bn. KenGen's expansion has been predominantly geothermal and there is plenty more of this resource to tap. You might not have noticed that notwithstanding one of the worst droughts in recent memory, KenGen's supply to the grid was hardly interrupted last FY largely because of the geothermal strategy. Full year profit before tax firmed +2.48% to register 11.74b, FY profit after tax was -12.38% [because of a +57.026% pop higher in income tax due to the fact the prior year’s tax expense was lower largely due to effect of the tax incentive (investment deduction) granted on commissioning of new geothermal wellhead plants] and FY earnings per share was 1.20. KenGen snapped a dividend drought and are paying 40 cents a share which is a 33 per cent payout ratio which represents a 5.36 per cent yield versus the closing price on Friday [the share price closed at 7.45 +1.36 per cent]. The dividend payment of Sh2.8b was important and a muscular signal and will underpin the share price. Other noteworthy points are a +150.63 per cent surge in FY finance income which clocked 3.34b which informs me that KenGen's treasury operations are now much more effective and that they are able to leverage what is a seriously low average cost of Funds [3.1%]. 89 per cent of KenGen's output is renewable which is truly remarkable. The ''Green'' economy has a champion in Kenya and it is KenGen. Now we are all aware of the travails at Kenya Power and it behoves KPLC to carpe the diem and find their Lee Iacocca figure who can turn it around. This parastatal ''termite economy'' is on its last legs. It is a material issue for KenGen. What interested me was the growth outlook that Rebecca spoke to. Obviously the electrification of the SGR [Why it was diesel at the get-go remains a mystery to me and a question that I cannot answer] would be a big boost to demand. Furthermore, there is also a big regional expansion opportunity on the horizon as well. "We're looking into regional expansion, with the power transmission lines including 1,100km (Kenya-Ethiopia) 127km (Kenya-Uganda) 94km (Kenya-Tanzania) and 400kv planned transmission." The demand curve which has been running at an average five per cent CAGR since 2011 could steepen dramatically. KenGen has a big role to play in industrialising the Kenyan economy. Our per capita electricity consumption is 200 kWh just 1/10th of what it could be. Energy is a very important component of the leapfrog into an industrialised future. What is clear is that KenGen is playing its role, is ahead of the curve and its Peers and its execution is also noteworthy. The PE ratio has a six handle. Ending the dividend drought and these results leave plenty of scope to the upside.  