Shujaa coach Paul Murunga is facing players’ crisis with the opening leg of the World Sevens Series in Dubai a month away. Murunga will be without stalwarts Collins Injera, former skipper Andrew Amonde, Willy Ambaka, Nelson Oyoo and Sammy Oliech, who are with the Kenya Simbas and leave the country tonight for the repechage in Marseille, France next week. Murunga will be also without playmaker Brian Tanga of Kabras for three months due to exam commitments. Tanga is expected back in March 2019 . Tanga’s team-mate at Kabras Dan Sikuta is also yet to be released by the club. Also missing from the squad for the two opening tournaments is Billy Odhiambo who has a broken jaw sustained at the Dala Sevens two month ago. Homeboyz’ Jeff Oluoch who played all the 10 tournaments of the series last season and was standout performer is doubt for the opener, having suffered a hairline fracture on his wrist. Murunga expects the player to recover before their departure to Dubai. Eric Ombasa, who debuted last season, has an ankle injury while Arthur Owira who broke his leg during the Commonwealth Games in April is still unavailable. Nakuru’s Gramwell Bunyasi has a knee injury which is expected to clear up by mid this month. Murunga said he has no choice but to rely on a youthful squad for the season openers next month. “The squad that did duty in the Africa Cup is most likely the one that will fly the country’s flag in Dubai and Cape Town. They are young and energetic group and keen on proving a point and making a mark,” added Murunga He added: “Over the years, we have mostly relied on senior players in the squad for depth and good results. But this time, expect to see the reverse—more new players and a few senior players to guide them.” “I am out to build a new squad this season, then refine the results in the next season with view of qualifying for the Olympics. Seasons later, we will have a fully-fledged squad to gun for a place in the 2022 World Cup,” he noted. The team started training a fortnight ago and train Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.