Opposition chief Raila Odinga's lieutenants came out guns blazing yesterday claiming that DP William Ruto is laying the ground to ditch Jubilee. ODM deputy leader Hassan Joho and Suna East MP Junet Mohamed, a key Raila ally, claimed Ruto has an elaborate plan to decamp from the ruling coalition and use Raila as a scapegoat. According to Junet, Ruto's vicious attack on Raila over the weekend was part of the DP's strategy to bolt ahead of the 2022 polls. “We are not chasing him from anywhere. He is running away from his shadow,” Junet, joined by Joho, said at Wilson Airport yesterday. “Let him not start blame games when he has decided it’s time for him to leave because it is normal for him to leave parties. So for him to leave Jubilee is not a big deal for us.” Ruto, a former Kanu, ODM, UDM and URP member has, according to people close to him, identified a party that he will use, in case Jubilee denies him a presidential ticket. "We have a plan and we may resign from government close to election and join our party," a senior official in his office told the Star yesterday. Lifting the lid on the simmering row in Jubilee, Ruto alleged on Sunday that Raila was planning to kick him out of Jubilee. “I was in ODM before and they kicked me out...I want to tell you here today that you cannot kick me out of ODM and then follow me to Jubilee to do the same, it is impossible,” Ruto said. (Ruto, however, voluntarily quit ODM in the run-up to the 2013 General Election and formed his United Republican Party. It later formed a coalition with Uhuru Kenyatta's TNA n early 2013.) Read: Handshake won't help you shake Jubilee, Ruto tells Raila The statement has raised fears of deepening tension in Jubilee, with some party leaders claiming that the President was not happy with the Deputy President. Raila is the ODM party leader and has no powers within the ruling Jubilee Coalition. Yesterday, Raila and his allies claimed Ruto was running scared because of Uhuru's ruthless war against graft. "If you are innocent, why should you panic? We have said the war on graft is not targeting anyone and what is amazing is how others are barking like dogs as if they already know they are guilty," Raila said while opening a hospital in Katani. The former Prime Minister added that he is not interested in 2022 politics or anything personal, only what will benefit all Kenyans. He maintained that his handshake with President Kenyatta is aimed at ending tribal, economic and educational divisions that have crippled the economy for too long. He said is not interested in taking anyone's position through the handshake. "If you are running alone, you cannot claim to have won because you cannot compete against yourself. We are not interested in the Big Four but what is crippling the Kenyan people and that is corruption and mass theft, insecurity and poverty," the ODM boss said. Read: Corruption fight sending tremors in Jubilee, no one's after Ruto seat - Raila But in a swift rejoinder, Ruto hit out at Raila and his brigade for claiming the handshake with President Kenyatta will help tackle corruption. Speaking during a fundraiser at Mwambeta Pefa Church in Voi Constituency, Taita Taveta, yesterday, Ruto said his opponents should leave the fight to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Judiciary and other independent institutions. “The independent institutions are mandated to deal with corrupt government officials — those who are wasting government resources — and take action,” he said. He said the opposition goes into a panic whenever he visits the Coast. The DP said it was ironic that the opposition was talking of uniting the country but at the same time was in the process of disciplining some Coast MPs for working with him. He asked why the opposition was claiming to be building bridges of unity while at the same time isolating and discriminating against others. “Importantly, leaders should focus on discussing issues that would transform Kenya, rather than wasting time talking about others,” he said. Raila's lieutenants also called a press conference to launch a blistering attack on the country's second in command. “The crackdown on corruption also means that the taps are drying up and and the DP and his associates in strategic parastatals will be finding it hard to finance his numerous harambees and numerous goat and chicken auctions in which he contributes millions at ago,” nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi said. The four legislators — Sama Atandi (Alego Usonga), Anthony Oluoch (Mathare), Zuleka Hassan (Kwale woman representative) also claimed the war on graft makes it a crime to flaunt big money in public. Last month, Ruto contributed Sh10 million in cash at a goat auction in Kajiado. “The deputy president's sole strength as a politician is to distribute money whose sources are not clear,” Osotsi said. Joho, speaking at ODM headquarters in Nairobi, said Ruto’s fresh attacks on Raila were intended to destroy the peace the country is enjoying after the handshake by using divisive politics. “He thinks that will not happen. Do we need permission from anyone to address issues that affect our people?” Joho asked. “We are well organised and the machinery that will be unleashed against him will surprise him,” he said. Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen and nominated MP David Sankok claimed Raila's troops do not want Ruto's involvement in the handshake “All the time, we are being reminded we don't want the DP to be involved. ODM politicians who work with Ruto are being told they will be disciplined. Raila himself has been quoted saying he is on a mission to break Jubilee,” Murkomen claimed. But Murkomen said Joho and Junet yesterday eventually confirmed what Raila has been hiding — that the ODM boss will be on the ballot in 2022. “We do not fear Raila. There is no political contest Raila Odinga has ever won against William Ruto,” Murkomen said. Read: EXPERT COMMENT: Ruto jittery of handshake because of succession Click here for the latest political news 