MPs have been asked to draft a law to give local firms priority while implementing multi-billion-shilling projects. Recent mega projects running into billions of shillings have gone to foreign firms as the local ones lack capacity. Chinese companies have undertaken major infrastructure projects including building of roads, schools and bridges. Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo said foreigners have taken most jobs in various projects, rendering local youths unemployed. Njomo was speaking during the 4th Speakers Roundtable of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance and National Assembly at the weekend. He argued that failure to engage local firms in the mega projects has resulted in poor circulation of money in the country. The MP said Parliament should enact a law to ensure Kenyans participate in developing the country. “As lawmakers, we should ensure that Kenyans are not just spectators when a myriad of foreigners come to build our own country. There is no circulation of money because payment to these foreign firms is channeled to foreign bank accounts,” Njomo said. Finance and National Planning committee chairman Joseph Limo called on MPs to keenly oversight expenditure on various projects by the government. Read:Kepsa pushes for peaceful polls in a meet with MPs Limo said proper policies should be put in place to enhance accountability while developing the country. “This nation needs stable and predictable policies to attract more investors. It is our role as legislators to oversight government expenditure on these projects to ensure that whatever is appropriated is well utilised,” the Kipkelion East MP said. M-kopa Solar Kenya board chairman Mugo Kibati called on Parliament to ensure the billions of shillings borrowed by the government are well utilised. “We are borrowing a lot of money as a country and Parliament has the role of questioning whether the national executive is able to steward those resources,” Kibati said. During the two-day meeting, MPs resolved to consider developing a law to ensure prompt payment of suppliers and contractors by the government. They also resolved to consider expanding the tax base and reducing burden on tax payers. Click here for the latest political news  