Muslims for Human Rights chairman Khelef Khalifa has said his life and those of the NGO’s staff are in danger from police. Khalifa yesterday said he has been informed by “a friendly police officer” that he is being targeted for his stand on the death of Caleb Espino. Espino, 40, died after he was arrested during a swoop on drinking dens in Changamwe on September 18. On Tuesday, four pathologists including chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor, said Espino died of multiple injuries. This was said to be a possible indication of torture. There are claims he was beaten, kicked, punched and hit his head on a metal bar. Police have dismissed the claims. Khalifa said he was being targeted for pushing for Espino’s post-mortem. “Please note that you and several others including the pathologists are under surveillance, hence the need to avoid telephone discussions on this [Espino’s death] and to take extra security measures,” Khalifa quoted a text message as saying. He said it was sent on Wednesday. Khalifa said he could not reveal the identity of the police officer. He said he was yet to report the matter to police. “I have reported similar incidents in the past but police never acted,” Khalifa said. Mombasa police commander Johnston Ipara said neither Khalifa nor any Muhuri staff was being targeted. Ipara said the post-mortem was initiated by police for transparency. “The postmortem had nothing to do with Muhuri nor any person working for the organisation,” Ipara told the Star on the phone yesterday. He said the claims were meant to taint the police’s reputation. He asked Khalifa to report the threats to his life. “If he wants police to help him ,then he should report the matter,” Ipara said. The Independent Policing Oversight Authority has interrogated prisoners and officers who were present at the Changamwe police station at the time of the death. The agency was also involved in the postmortem. Independent Medico-Legal Unit pathologist Emily Adhiambo said Espino’s injuries were mainly on the skin, head and upper spinal cord.Adhiambo said there was bleeding within the brain and outside and on his buttocks. “There was also a fractured left rib, with bleeding in the lungs and a tear within one of the lungs,” Adhiambo said after the six-hour procedure at Coast Provincial General Hospital. Oduor said more samples will be subjected to further testing at the government labs in Nairobi before a conclusive result is given in three months’ time.