Police in Thika have arrested two suspected fake vets and are trying to establish if they are involved in the rampant cattle theft in the area. The two, Esther Wambui alias Esther Nzioka Syekoyo and Joel Mwangi alias Naftali Murage Wahome, were caught vaccinating cows and goats with an unknown concotion. They claimed to have been sent by the government following an alleged outbreak of animal disease. Police also recovered fake identification cards, an old thermometer, injectable animal drugs, several needles, syringes and saltlick from the suspects. They were caught in Gatuanyaga Village after they entered resident Kamau Kuru’s home to vaccinate his cattle and goats. His daughter, a qualified veterinary officer, raised suspicion over the manner the two were dressed and the equipment they had. She notified her father, who immediately called police with fears that they were spying for cattle thieves, who have terrorised area residents for months now. The officers, led by Thika East administration police boss Muumina Yusuf and police boss Julius Kyumbule, arrested the two before taking them to Ngoliba police station. Resident Salome Wanjira, also a victim of the two, said they vaccinated her three goats and were paid Sh1,000. They also vaccinated her neighbour’s goat, and it died.  treated countless animals Wanjira said residents fell into the suspects’ trap following an earlier announcement in local churches that veterinary officers would come last Tuesday at Gatuanyaga cattle dip to treat their animals after an outbreak. But the quacks took advantage of the announcement and came a day earlier, claiming to have been sent from Kabete to help the locals. Suspect Wambui said that she has practised for three years and has treated countless animals in the region. “I’ve actually built confidence with my clients. At times I treat their animals and allow them to pay at a later date,” she said. “I’m not a bad person.” Kyumbule cautioned residents to demand proper identification from such people and inform the authorities if the characters are suspicious. He said police are working round the clock to tame cattle theft as the cases continue to escalate. “We will catch up with the thieves because their 40th day is nearing,” the police boss said. Villagers had complained that cattle thieves had wrecked havoc in the area and suspected that their livestock were sold to butchers in neighbouring Murang’a and Machakos counties. The cattle theft ring spreads over the entire central Kenya. In nyeri, residents claim more than 100 cattle have been stolen since January. In Muriru village alone, at least 11 cows were stolen in one week. “These thieves are a nuisance. In just one week, 11 cows have been stolen from my village. I even had to sell mine to avoid such a loss,” said resident Baragu Gitonga. Police believe many of cows are transported to Murang’a, suspected to be the home of a black market for stolen animals. Not only are the cows being sold for meat, it is suspected that some are sold to unsuspecting dairy farmers. Kieni East police boss Job Lesikinwa recently said that detectives are probing cases of livestock theft in the area as they pursue masterminds of the incidents. “The suspects are not locals, they are from Meru. We are investigating further because we believe there is a local informer,” he said.