Interior CS Fred Matiang’i yesterday defended the visibly tight security for the national exams. This year’s KCPE and KCSE examinations are being guarded more than ever, with KDF officers on standby for emergencies. More Cabinet secretaries have been deployed to monitor exams around the country. And President Uhuru Kenyatta has not been left behind. Yesterday, he made a surprise visit to Uhuru Gardens Primary School on the second day of the KCPE exam. All this security has led to a debate over possible intimidation of candidates. Matiang’i yesterday dismissed claims the exams have been militarised. He said those initiating the debate have nothing to talk about because they have been waiting for flaws and cheating, only to be disappointed. Read: Form one student caught sitting KCPE in Kisii The CS spoke at the office of the Kilifi South deputy county commissioner where he supervised the opening of the container that had the Day Two examination papers. “These are the same people who will be first to shout when something happens and they start asking where the police were,” he said. He said he has a duty to ensure the exams and candidates are secured and that no cheating takes place. “I don’t understand what that [complaint about heavy security]means. Did you want us to provide an opportunity for you to occasionally lie?” Matiang’i asked. “It sounds nonsensical.” He denied claims of al Shabaab terrorist threats in Wajir and the northern parts of the country. “There is nothing like that. We have sufficient air transport resources. We are getting backup from KDF. The police aircraft are available,” he said. He visited three schools — Mtwapa, Mtwapa Elite Academy and a Mikiriani primary schools — in Kilifi county. Kilifi is one of the counties performing dismally in the national exams. Meanwhile, two KCPE exam candidates from Virizirini Primary School in Kinango, Kwale, have not showed up for the test. Sports CAS Hassan Noor yesterday visited the school to monitor the ongoing test and demanded to know why the pupils were missing. Related: Nonsense! Matiang'i tells critics of 'militarised' exams “I’m really saddened by this disappearance. The teachers are finding out exactly what happened,” he said. The boys were no-shows on Tuesday. Teachers said they never showed any sign they would not take the exam. Their attendance had been good,they said. “They were present throughout the three terms up until the last minute,” one teacher said. County education director Bridgit Wambua could not be reached for comment. He did not return calls. Noor said one girl from Chirimani Primary School in Matuga fell ill. He emphasised the need for fair competition and said there were no hitches in the other schools he had visited. On Tuesday, he was at Waa, Voroni, St Thomas, Kilimo, and Kibaoni primary schools in Kwale and Kilifi counties. Yesterday, Noor camped in Mombasa. He said there has been “tremendous progress” in girls education. “At Waa, the girls registered major progress. Out of 116 candidates, 90 are girls,” he said. Click here for the latest political news 