Mombasa speaker Aharub Khatri wants better pay for MCAs, saying it is key for their service delivery and oversight duties. Each of the 2,526 MCAs in the country earns a basic salary of Sh144,000 per month plus a Sh3,900 sitting allowance for every plenary session. The Salaries and Remuneration Commission put a ceiling to what the MCAs earn in sitting allowances per month at Sh124,800 each. But on Monday, speaker Khatri said this ceiling should be scrapped. “Let us change that law so that this ceiling is removed. An MCA should get an adequate salary. In fact, an MCA should earn more pay than the speaker because they have more responsibilities,” Khatri said in an interview with NTV on Monday. The county assembly speaker earns a basic salary of Sh259,875, has a Sh20 million mortgage a Sh4 million car loan paid at three per cent interest. The SRC had proposed a slash to the MCAs’ salaries to contain the ballooning wage bill, which stands at Sh627 billion per year, accounting for almost 50 per cent of the national revenue. The MCAs wage bill alone is Sh416 million a year. Khatri, however, has said the MCAs should first be able to live comfortably before helping their constituents. “How can an MCA think of solving his people’s problems when he has his own problems to solve? It is difficult,” the speaker said. Assembly chief whip and Frere Town MCA Charles Kitula said the Ward Development Fund will come in handy in ensuring their constituents get the services they need adequately. “It is tricky for an MCA who takes home Sh60,000 in salary and allowances to oversight someone who earns Sh2 million. They might be tempted to accept whatever they are given to look the other way,” Kitula said on the phone yesterday. He urged the Senate to pass the Ward Development Fund Bill, which he said will help MCAs do more for the people. Nominated MCA Milka Moraa said MCAs have many responsibilities and are put under a lot of pressure by their constituents. “MCAs are the closest to the people at the grassroots. They look up to them to solve almost all their problems,” Moraa said. He said MCAs do not have a kitty to solve people’s problems.