President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday said the recent integration of the regular and administration police is aimed at improving efficiency in service delivery and ending impunity. The President told the new joint police force to work with dignity and redeem its image from the tags of being the “most corrupt” to being the “most respected” institution in the land. “This is a new service that should have no place for impunity. It serves Kenyans equally and ensures those that need punishment are punished with respect to the law,” Uhuru said. He spoke at State House, Nairobi, where he received both outgoing and new commissioners of the National Police Service Commission and the Independent Policing Oversight Authority. The President said the first mandate of the police is to serve Kenyans and make the country secure, to safeguard and attract investments. “The most desirable attitude in policing is that the public comes first. This attribute, coupled with integrity, is, indeed, key to maintaining, on a lasting basis, security and safety in society,” Uhuru said. The President also received exit reports from the two commissions and four policy documents from the NPSC on housing, training and development, welfare and psychological counselling of officers. Read: Matiang'i's Interior ministry, Police top EACC's graft survey Uhuru said the new housing arrangement for police officers will restore pride and dignity in the force. When the new National Police Service Housing Policy is implemented, officers will enjoy accommodation under various categories including houses owned by the NPS, in estates and apartments, houses in police institutions and police lines and shift quarters. Others will be accommodated in gated residential areas and in stand-alone apartment blocks. Uhuru said the establishment of both NPSC and IPOA six years ago ushered in a new policing era in Kenya characterised by modern equipment, new training curriculum and highly motivated, transparent and accountable service men and women. The President congratulated IPOA for an excellent job in executing its wide-ranging mandate that positively contributed to a significant improvement in policing despite having no previous institution to compare with. The President acknowledged during its first six-year tenure, IPOA put in place structures, policies regulations and established its headquarters and opened regional offices across the country. “IPOA exists as a safeguard against police misconduct. To that extent I need to re-emphasize my administration’s support in this endeavor, and we applaud your work,” the President told the commissioners. He added, “You have kept to your mandate of conducting impartial and independent investigations, inspections, audits and monitoring of the National Police Service to prevent impunity and enhance professionalism in the interest of the public.” Read: Police, Lands ministry and Judiciary most corrupt in Kenya - bribery index Click here for the latest political news   