I was not a little surprised when the Capital Markets Authority pronounced that they were freezing shares bought in the Run Up to the Announcement by RUBIS ÉNERGIE SAS that RUBIS had proposed an offer price of Sh23 per share for KenolKobil. It was well known that KenolKobil had been in ''GO SHOP'' mode [for a Buyer] for eternity. I, myself, publicly interviewed the CEO David Ohana more than a year ago and when he said to me that ''Buyers were knocking on his door every week.'' So it was perfectly obvious to anyone who follows the market closely that at some point a buyer was going to knock on their door and they were going to be sold. This general expectation was further bolstered by the attempted but failed sale of Kenolkobil to Puma Energy in 2012. The announcement was never in doubt [unless you lived in a cave and had shut yourself off from the C21st] but its timing was. KenolKobil was a ''must-Have'' stock and let me explain why. KenolKobil at a price of 15.00 shillings a share was essentially trading at a forward PE multiple of less than 4. KenolKobil reported a First Half Earnings per Share of 2.13 [which is +27.544% more than the previous Full Year Earnings]. They earned more in the first half of 2018 than the entire FY 2017. Now you don't have be to be a rocket scientist to calculate that if they repeated heir H1 performance in the second half they were going to serve up a FY EPS of 4.26. David Ohana is running a tight ship, he has pared costs and this business is serious well managed with a premier East African franchise. It has been my conviction stock since the FY 2017 results were released along with Safaricom [which is once again supremely attractive after the sell-off and KenGen as well which broke a dividend drought today.] Conviction was further bolstered by the announced results August this year which clearly showed that the broken balance sheet from 2012 was finally and fully cleaned up. At a price of 15.00 that produced a forward PE multiple of 3.52. The average PE multiple at the Nairobi Securities Exchange is 11.9. Safaricom trades on a PE Multiple of is 17.029 as a point of reference. At an implied PE Multiple of 3.52, Kenolkobil is at a discount of 70.42% to the market. If Kenolkobil were trading at the market PE multiple it would be trading at 50.694. KenolKobil was essentially a ''no-brainer'' at a price of 18.00, at a price of 15.00, if you were not a buyer, I would posit You had no right to call yourself an Investor. The Nairobi Securities Exchange hit a ten year low in September and was in fact the worse performing stock market in the world [Bloomberg] three months through September. Bloomberg reported that ''The country’s main equity index has fallen 14 per cent this quarter, the most among 95 global indexes tracked by Bloomberg. Stocks in East Africa’s biggest economy are in a bear market after sinking 24 percent from a record high in April'' I therefore would posit in such a situation a bear market and an egregious valuation is exactly when any intelligent Investor would step up. Kenolkobil on its fundamentals was about as attractive as it could get and therefore most Investors the world over [Buffett is a classic example amongst many others ] would look to step in. Investors tend to make money when they keep their heads when everyone is losing theirs. Foreigners have been fleeing and this is exactly the moment when supply becomes available. Stop Losses were essentially being triggered everywhere you cared to look. Getting a sizeable block of Kenolkobil, a not very liquid share on the NSE at such low prices is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Why foreigners were selling so much stock, so aggressively is another story that I cannot answer. In fact, I would argue it was exactly the same line of thinking which encouraged RUBIS to step in with their Take-over Offer, exactly because a more than 50 per cent premium would look attractive. Given my analysis, it is predicted and predictable that we are in a Rea Vipingo scenario and it is quite possible another buyer will surface because even at 23, this company is undervalued. If everyone who does a bad trade can go cry wolf to the CMA then we should all go to the CMA because as far as I can see we are all underwater.   