But what is Raila
up to this time round? This is the question on the lips of almost every
politician across the board. And Raila seems to enjoy every bid of the unfolding
drama that he has singularly staged on both his political friends and foes. In the
opposition, Raila has left his so-called co-principals who form the apex of the
National Super Alliance  devouring themselves. Already, the
impact of Raila’s meeting with President Kenyatta on March 9 that
resulted in the now famous handshake, has brutally demolished the political marriage
that propelled UhuRuto to power and the camaraderie that characterised their
relationship. Since the Uhuru
Raila handshake, the relationship between the president and his deputy has
evidently grown from cordial to frosty and the two, who had kept tight personal
ties, have significantly drifted apart on many fronts to the point of expressing
openly divergent views, a situation that had not happened before. Ever the shrewd,
some say enigmatic politician that he has been, Raila seems to dexterously walk
the tightrope, balancing his role as opposition chief and at the same time
navigating around the new found truce with the President, the man who was
his bitter political nemesis only months ago. Comfortably
walking side by side with the President, to the utter chagrin of the Deputy
president, Raila remains unapologetic on the new political path that he charted
only a month after he defied government, diplomatic and religious
counsel and went ahead to swear himself in as "the Peoples’ President", an
event that not only split his opposition down the middle but one that saw the
government take the hardest stance against its opponents and critics, both real
and imagined, including the media. For the first
time in the history of Kenya’s acknowledged free press, the government shut
down and switched off three main and popular private television stations for
more than a week in the wake of their collective defiance of the government
order to give the Raila swearing-in event live television coverage blackout. Within
opposition ranks, Raila appears least disturbed by the disintegrating NASA, which fronted him in the stormy race for President.  Instead, he has thrown them into
total confusion, with his renewed crusade for a referendum. While his colleagues
in NASA have been clutching at straws as the NASA ship drowns, Raila has shown
no concern or sympathy for them. The most dramatic testimony of this was the  removal of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula as Senate Minority leader,
and his replacement with Raila’s closest ally and Siaya Senator James Orengo. Switching
political alliances has been the hallmark of Raila’s political style over the
years. Since Kenya’s return to multiparty politics over two decades ago, there
is no major political event and alignment that has not featured Raila.
But nothing seemed to have prepared the country for the events that have already
tore NASA apart and driven a deep wedge within the top Jubilee echelons. With the NASA
alliance in limbo, Raila appears set to stage a new political coup of sorts, as
his supporters continue to exert pressure on him to bring the home the fruits
of his new deal with President Kenyatta and the push for a referendum seem to
define his new strategy in that respect. Regardless of which political side
one stands, the handshake has already reshaped the 2022
presidential race and heightened the stakes for the Uhuru succession this
early. Suddenly, it is
no longer apparent that Ruto will have an easy ride to the presidency, as
it was presumed.
Following Raila’s subsequent separate meetings with former presidents, Daniel Moi and Mwai Kibaki, a new dimension was instantly introduced to the plot with
those opposed to the handshake reading a more elaborate political plot to block
Ruto,  who is viewed as a rank outsider among
families that have dominated Kenya’s politics since independence. Proponents of
this thinking are advancing the view that Raila’s ultimate intention is to derail
and eventually jettisoned Ruto from the frontline of the Kenyatta succession
race, a prognosis that Ruto has publicly admitted with his recent declaration
that he will not allow Raila to rock the Jubilee boat or throw him off balance.
 Whether Raila will succeed in his
current political scheming, only time will tell. …………………………. Vitalis Musebe
is a veteran journalist and political commentator vitalis.musebe@gmail.com  