The Nairobi County Inspectorate department has accused cartels of bringing back street children in the city centre. Nairobi county chief security officer Tito Kilonzi said cartels are using children to beg for money in the streets. He spoke before a joint sitting of the assembly's Justice and Legal Affairs and Children, Early Childhood Education committees on Thursday at City Hall. "They use children to lure people because they target the emotions aspect and people react by giving them money," Kilonzi said. Nominated MCA Anne Thumbi had earlier sought a statement from the chairperson of Justice and Legal Affairs and on Children, Early Childhood Education and Vocational Training committee regarding the street urchins. She argued the number of children begging and selling items, especially sweets at night, is becoming an epidemic that must be addressed before it spirals out of control. "The children peddling sweets in the streets are young and vulnerable to pedophiles and have been denied their fundamental rights to education," Thumbi said. Security and Compliance chief officer Eva Wairiuko said the first step towards helping the children is to rescue them children from the streets. "The aim of the rescue operation is to seek and understand why these children are in the streets and pursue ways of addressing the issue," she said. Since January 1 until October 2, the county has rescued 457 children from the city centre and taken them to the four main children's institutions in the county. At least 29 were taken to Kayole, 48 to Shauri Moyo, 28 to Joseph Kang'ethe and 352 to Makadara. The rescued children are counselled and later taken to educational institutions. In Joseph Kang'the, 78 have access to education, in Shauri Moyo 43, Kayole 56 and Makadara 129 children. "As a county we believe that when children are in school it will be difficult for them to get exploited," Wairiuko said. Kilimani MCA Moses Ogeto said some of the children rescued end up back into the streets. "These children are everywhere from the roads, around Globe roundabout, Jamia Mosque and even close to Hilton Hotel and yet the county says they have rescued them from the streets," he said. Kilonzi acknowledged that indeed the children are back into the streets and said they will be rescued. "Not all children are Kenyans and there is no law stating that foreign beggars should be jailed. Even If we rescue them and take them to the police station, they will not be charged," he said. However , the introduction of the free ECDEs and free milk programme have motivated some street children to join schools.     