DPP Noordin Haji has ordered a probe into the mysterious disappearance of a report on Sh4.5 billion defective KPLC transformers. Haji yesterday directed DCI George Kinoti to investigate the circumstances under which the report by the Energy Regulatorty Commission disappeared. The report is the main evidence against former Kenya Power MDs Ben Chumo and Stephen Tarus who have been charged with abuse of office in relation to the purchase of the transformers. Chumo and Tarus were charged alongside 11 other KPLC managers with committing economic crimes and wilful failure to comply to procurement laws. They were also charged with fraudulent acquisition of public property and aiding commission of a felony. Assistant DPP Alexander Muteti yesterday told chief magistrate Felix Kombo that Haji ordered the investigations to establish how the original documents disappeared from the police file. The case was investigated by the Serious Crimes Unit of the DCI. The substandard transformers were discovered by the DCI hidden at KPLC’s Nairobi South depot in Industrial Area near Donholm. The detectives delivered copies of the ERC report to the DPP after the suspects were charged. The copies were also shared with the defence lawyers before they disappeared. Read: Haji orders probe on missing documents in Sh4.5bn KPLC graft case KPLC told the DPP that the report can’t be found or it might have been misplaced. Muteti said an inquiry file has already been opened to probe circumstances under which the documents were lost. He sought an adjournment of the case until Friday to allow the DCI complete the investigations. Kombo granted the request. Defence lawyers Kirathe Wandugi, Katwa Kigen and Guantaru Thuita opposed the application, saying it amounted to violation of the rights of the accused persons. Those charged alongside Chumo and Tarus are company secretary Beatrice Meso, human resources manager Abubakar Swaleh, general managers Peter Mungai, Joshua Mutua, Samuel Ndirangu, Stanley Mutwiri and John Ombui. Others are Benson Murithi, Peter Mwicigi and James Mungai - the director of Muwa Trading Company, which allegedly supplied the transformers. They are accused of committing the offences on diverse dates between August 3, 2012, and June 12, 2018. They denied the charges and were released on bond. Defence lawyers said postponing trial showed DPP’s unpreparedness. Read: False documents, improper procurement rock Sh4.5bn Kenya Power case Also See: Top KPLC managers released on Sh1 million bail Click here for the latest political news