The current debate on whether to amend the Constitution, either through the referendum or through Parliament, is simply political. A lot of things have been said; a lot of blatant lies have been paraded; and, a lot of half-truths have been told. All in all, it is said that the “donkey is tired” and that we must “reduce the load”. In many cases, it has been touted that that load is being carried by Kenyans. Nothing could be further from the truth. Let us take a short journey of Kenya’s history, where this commentary will prove that there is nothing to benefit majority of the people of Kenya; only the power wielders, power brokers and the power puppets. Wisdom tells us that history is the best teacher, and those who do not learn from it are bound to repeat the same mistakes. Let us take a trip down memory lane. Down Memory Lane Before Kenya’s Independence, in the three Lancaster House Conferences ending in 1963, there were negotiations in the United Kingdom. Three groups representing Kenyans were ignored by the political elite when discussing the Independence Constitution, also referred to as the Lancaster Constitution. These were: first, the Maa community delegation on the matter of land ownership and access, which had been appropriated through conning the Maa community off their land. The two Lenana Agreements of the early 1900s were ignored, and the Maa-speaking community was told to wait until the lapse of the 99-year leasehold of the land to terminate, which even after expiry, they are still suffering from those colonial injustices. Second, the Somali delegation was largely ignored on the matter of their own Independence, and in their suffering under the colonial administration. The colonialists barely invested anything pertaining infrastructure in their territory, including the larger Northern Frontier District, which comprised the coastal areas beginning from Lamu to the former North Eastern province and some larger parts of the north of former Eastern province, and also the north of former Rift Valley. The third group was the African traditional systems and structures, which wanted some level of autonomy, similar to the Buganda in Uganda. Traditional structures, including African religiosity and cultural practices, were until then untouched by the colonialists’ modern lifetsyles or modernity, but they were also simply ignored. All these three groups walked out of the Lancaster House Conference, leaving the elite to negotiate an Independence Constitution, which they saw as a way and means to acquiring power, nothing about the context or content of the Constitution. Independence, to replace white skins with black skins, as Franz Fanon would put it, was the driving agenda. Indeed, as Kenya prepared for the June 1963 Constitution, Jomo Kenyatta had already hinted that the so-called Majimbo Constitution was unworkable, and his government would amend it immediately after Independence to pave way for a Republic Constitution. Whatever that meant is anybody’s conjecture. Essentially, even if he swore to protect the Constitution on June 1, 1963, after the Kenya African National Union (Kanu) won the May 1963 General Election, the first President did not have faith in the Constitution. The Kenya African Democratic Union (Kadu) believed in the Majimbo Constitution, but they lost the election. Thereafter, a series of amendments, just like the ones being proposed now, ensued, destroying the very fabric of the Constitution. Are you drawing parallels to today’s debates? Constitutional Amendments A series of 10 constitutional amendments, beginning in 1964 up to 1969, destroyed the tenets and foundation of the Independence Constitution. While the Constitution was not perfect, indeed no Constitution is, including that of the United States in 1787, or even the 2010 Kenyan Constitution, but two types of amendments were done to the Independence Constitution. The first types of amendments were to destroy the edifice of the parliamentary system of government, the separation of powers, bill of rights, citizenship, structure of the devolved system termed Majimbo through the regional governments, independence of the institutions of government, such as the police, Parliament and Judiciary, and also destroy the Senate, which was the bulwark for securing devolution. Whatever is being proposed today is nothing new, and hopefully readers, we are still together and you are comparing parallels with current proposed amendments. Briefly, the 1st amendment of 1964 made Jomo the President from Prime Minister without seeking votes from Kenyans, by usurping powers of the Head of State and Head of Government. Jomo became Jamba (cockerel) and nobody would challenge that. The 2nd amendment of the same year ratified that by removing the title of “regional presidents” to be referred to as “chairmen”, so that no one doubts who the Jamba of the country is. The 3rd amendment, made it so simple to amend the Independence Constitution by reducing the threshold of amendment process from 90 per cent in the Senate and 75 per cent in House of Representatives (today’s National Assembly) to 65 per cent in both Houses. By amending the percentage rule, entrenched provisions, such as the bill of rights, structure of regions, the Senate, Judiciary and the amendment process itself, were tampered with, and they could be amended by a simple 65 per cent majority. Freedoms Tampered After the 3rd amendment, the other most important amendment was the 6th of 1966 and the 7th amendments of 1967. The latter amendment abolished the Senate, and the members were asked to choose constituencies that were curved out on a map, and they went to the Lower House without an election. Devolution was literally killed, and also it became far much easier for the National Assembly to do whatever it wanted with the regional governments, which eventually were literally wiped off the map, two years later, with the 9th amendment of 1969. The 6th amendment in 1966, which pertained to human rights, meant those who opposed the Jomo regime were incarcerated for long periods through detention without trial. All Jomo Kenyatta’s enemies, perceived or real, went to the gallows for either raising accountability issues or through asking pertinent questions about their constituents. Before this 6th amendment, there were the 4th and 5th amendments, which were the preparatory grounds for this amendment. In the 4th amendment, those MPs who missed eight sittings, or those who were sent to jail either for political or criminal reasons, were also to lose their seats. The 8th amendment ensured that the 5th amendment was clearly understood, as it made it clear that the amendment read backwards. MPs and the legislature became an arm of the executive government, and those who are seeing what is happening in the National Assembly today should be very wary if the amendments through a referendum are something to support. Hopefully, we are still together in this historical journey. Lessons from History By the time Jomo Kenyatta died, the Lancaster Constitution had been amended a record 16 times in only 15 years of his rule! Thus, it can be argued that Jomo, with other Kanu stalwarts such as Tom Mboya, Mbiyu Koinange, James Gichuru and Njoroge Mungai among others, in their wisdom or lack of it, were ill-prepared to handle the provisions that the Independence Constitution had provided. Indeed, there were also amendments that were to deal with political foes or friends. The 15th amendment gave powers to Jomo to pardon electoral offences, and in doing so, he ‘forgave’ Paul Ngei, who had earlier in the 1974 General Election been found by the High Court to have violated the electoral process and been banned from vying in any elections for five years. This amendment was hurriedly passed in a record three days — from 9th, 10th to 11th December 1975 — and on Jamhuri Day, Ngei sat near Kenyatta as ‘forgiven’. Enemies were not spared. The 10th amendment of 1968 was to deal with Tom Mboya, who was seen as an outright successor to Jomo, and some people planned to block him from succeeding Kenyatta, by drafting an amendment to ensure that they increase the age of those running for presidency from 35 years to 40, since in the ensuing election of 1969, Mboya would have been 38 years. Anyway the amendment did not sail through, but on 5th July 1969, those who failed to block him through a constitutional amendment gunned him down on Government Road. Another enemy was called Daniel Moi, the former President before Kibaki. Through the lobby group Change the Constitution, a group of Gikuyu, Embu and Meru Association (Gema) loyalists tried to block him from succeeding Jomo, but they failed. Referendum Debate Evidently, as demonstrated above, we have been here before. It is unconvincing that today’s debate on the Constitution is influenced by public interest. The politicians and other henchmen are just clothing something, and behind that façade are elite interests. First, they may say we are over-represented. It is not true; we are overpaying those representatives, whose job should be part-time. Second, they may say our economy is suffering. It is not true; we are stealing too much public revenues and taxes at the rate of about 30 per cent of the annual national budget. Third, they may say we are having too many wage bills. It is not true, we are paying devolved government officers existing alongside national bureaucrats who run a parallel system alongside devolved government, making it cumbersome and expensive. Fourth, they may say we have to pay our huge debts. It is not true, since those debts have either been inflated or negotiated badly and further, most of it is stolen by those asking us to go to a referendum. It’s about them, not majority of Kenyans. It is about measuring political weight and supremacy ahead of the 2022 General Election, to test popularity. Kenyans are being asked to spend Sh10 billion through an electoral body so corrupted to the extent that they wasted about Sh9 billion in the last year’s two elections, without doing their work professionally and with integrity. Tom Kagwe, JP DISCLAIMER: The views contained in this commentary are solely those of the author, who is a political scientist and a human rights defender, who has devoted over 20 years in Kenya’s search for the Constitution. For further reading, check: Tom Kagwe, End of an Error… Beginning of an Era: Memoirs on Kenya’s Search for a New Constitution, which is available at https://www.pdffiller.com, written in August 2010.