The National Land Commission has directed the family of the late politician John Keen to stop any transaction on the 264.5 acres formerly owned by the tycoon in Kilifi until investigations over the current status are complete. This after it emerged that the government took over all the land located between Pwani University and YMCA areas from the tycoon who was among those who owned prime land in Kilifi county. The NLC also told the more than 6,000 squatters to stop making payments to the Coast Development Company associated with Keen until a ruling is made in five months. Keen was among the beneficiaries allocated thousands of acres of prime land by colonialists, which include land currently owned by Pwani University, Sea Horse and Kenya Power. The pieces were taken over by the government. Squatters who reside on the 264.5 acres had before Keen’s death initiated plans to acquire the land through Ziwani Estates Residents’ Association, which has a membership of 6,000 people. However, they recently came to learn after a search that a caveat had been placed on the land in 1982  and it was now government property. On Thursday, the squatters, led by Kibarani MCA John Mwamutsi together with a daughter of the late billionaire — Pamela Soila —  appeared before the NLC which is investigating land issues in Kilifi at Watamu CDF Hall to get a solution to the problem. Amicable NLC acting chairperson Abigael Mbagaya asked Soila to bring documents as early as possible to prove how the land was acquired. “If the land has a caveat, why are officers processing titles? Government officers need to analyse the caveat,” she said. Mbagaya said the NLC will give recommendations in five months, but asked the Keen family not to do anything on the ground. Soila told the commission she is not aware whether her father had reached an agreement to sell the land to the squatters or whether he received money in his accounts regarding the land acquisition. However, she said the family is willing to resolve the matter amicably with the squatters. Patrick Kambi, the secretary of Ziwani Estates Residents’ Association, said it has receipts to prove it bought the land from Keen and paid to Kenya Commercial Bank, adding it also has beacon certificates. “In 2016 when John Keen  died, we knew him as the  sole director of Coast Development  Company Limited, however, after searching, we found that even though the land belonged to Keen, there was a caveat showing it was taken by the government,” he said. Kambi wondered why the title is still under Keen.