Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe wants devolution strengthened and Kenyans’ economic burden reduced through a constitutional amendment. He made the remarks as it became apparent that many leaders back the referendum calls but are split on when to have the vote and the areas to be changed. DP William Ruto and his allies are, however, against the emerging referendum crusade. It could expand the executive and reduce the power of the presidency, which he seeks. It might also reduce the number of legislators. On Sunday at Lusumu Catholic Church, Wangwe said a vote on the supreme law should not be about creating positions for individuals. “We all agree the current Constitution is a burden, but it is not about the presidential system. We’ll not agree to any amendments meant to benefit individuals instead of the suffering Kenyans,” Wangwe said. He wants all wananchi involved in deciding the system of government that would best promote shared prosperity before any vote. He said politicians would push their personal agenda if let to champion the changes. NASA leader Raila Odinga and his ODM brigade have called for constitutional amendments to restructure the executive by switching to a parliamentary system rather than a pure presidential system. Last week, National Assembly Majority chief whip Ben Washiali backed the calls and said a referendum will enable Kenyans to do away with the winner-takes-all system of government. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has also supported the calls to change the Constitution, but warned that the timing is questionable. “Going for a referendum when Kenyans are hit hard by heavy taxation amounts to manipulating their decision at the poll,” Mudavadi said in Nairobi on Sunday. Wangwe wants the Senate reduced to 20 members from the current 67. This will reduce the cost of running the House by more than half, he said. He said the number of elected senators should be reduced to eight from the current 47 to represent the former provinces and 12 others nominated to represent special interest groups. He described senators as “super MCAs who only duplicate what the county assemblies do”. The number of members of the National Assembly should be reduced to the initial 222, comprising 210 elected and 12 nominated, the lawmaker proposed. He also wants Cabinet secretaries to be elected MPs. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said the only changes needed are those that will reduce the number of positions created by the Constitution. Any other call is insincere and does not consider the plight of Kenyans, he said. “Kenyans are facing hard economic times and it would be unfair to subject them to a plebiscite at a time they can’t make an informed decision,” Panyako said.