Maize prices have dropped to as low as Sh800 a bag as the government faces yet another crisis with farmers because money has not been set aside for NCPB to buy maize from next month. Farmers owed more than Sh2.1 billion by the National Cereals and Produce Board are demanding that the government should buy their maize at the Sh3,200 per bag paid this year. The NCPB is currently paying out Sh1.4 billion released last week by the state for the maize farmers, but additional money will have to be released to complete the payments to more than 1,000 farmers. “We are giving priority to genuine farmers, especially the small-scale ones owed about Sh2 million and below,” Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said. He said the payments are going on well and the government will ensure those who delivered their maize are paid. Yesterday, majority of the farmers said they had received their money. “We are happy that the payments have been done but we need clear planning in the sector or there would be an even bigger crisis in the near future,” said Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo. He said the state is using Sh1.4 billion allocated in the budget to pay maize farmers for last year's produce, but so far there is no word on how this year’s maize will be handled by the board. A spot check in parts of Eldoret, KItale and Bungoma indicated that some farmers are harvesting their produce for this year, pushing the prices of the commodity to as low as Sh20 per 2kg tin, which translates to Sh800 for the 90kg bag. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday asked traders not to hike maize flour price but farmers in the bread basket counties fear that they will make massive losses if the government does not intervene. “That is is why we have asked that the NCPB sets the price at either Sh3,200 as it is now or even more so that as farmers we do not end up losing everything because of low prices and lack of market for our produce,” farmer David Amdany said. There are fears that maize imports from Uganda will flood market, further complicating the situation. The NCPB stores are still fully packed with maize purchased this year.