 Around the world, mothers and children continue to die needlessly of preventable causes. With this in mind, the global community, and specifically the African Union, has prioritied maternal, adolescent and child health as an urgent area of focus. Kenya is not left behind, and we stand proud that we will be hosting the second African Union International Conference on Maternal Newborn and Child Health from October 28 -31 in Nairobi. We will be joined by policymakers and global experts in maternal, adolescent and child health in taking stock of the achievements made so far, and declare actions the continent must take to address the gaps. Much as there is a lot to celebrate, as I will indicate later, the journey ahead is still fraught with challenges. We need to do more. First, the funding landscape must change dramatically. We need to move from donor-dependent initiatives to local and sustainable solutions. This will become a reality, thanks to the Big Four agenda, as we seek to expand the fiscal space to enable more investments in maternal and child health. Through universal health coverage, our goal is to ensure every mother and child has access to free quality health services, and that mothers continue to have access to skilled delivery. We have eliminated financial barriers to skilled delivery through the Linda Mama programme (formerly the free maternal healthcare programme), but we need to improve on geographical accessibility. I urge the county governments and the private sector to invest towards primary healthcare in line with our reaffirmation in Astana, in the just-concluded Global Primary Health Care Conference. Secondly, we need to ensure healthcare services are available in communities through recruitment and training of community health workers, who would ensure every child is immunised, every mother receives antenatal and post-natal care and that every family has access to information on how they can live healthier lives. Thirdly, let us continue to invest in education, particularly of young girls. We know that keeping girls in school longer not only protects them from unplanned pregnancies and HIV infections but also has long-term benefits. We know that women with a higher level of education are more likely to maintain hygiene, breastfeed their children and use family planning methods hence improve their personal health and that of their children. Lastly, we have to intensify interventions against diseases that kill children and women. Kenya was certified free of maternal and neonatal tetanus early this year and we look forward to being a polio-free country in the next few years. On a more positive note, Africa, and Kenya in particular, has invested a lot to improve the health of women, girls and children. Since 2013, Kenya has been consistently investing in the improvement of the health of mothers and their children through innovative programmes such as free delivery services. As a result, skilled hospital-based deliveries have increased by over 20 per cent and more than two thirds of all deliveries are conducted by skilled healthcare workers in the country. Our family planning services uptake among married women has increased to 58 per cent and we are on track to achieve the FP 2020 goal. Kenya has expanded the immunisation programme by introducing two new vaccines — Rotavirus vaccine against diarrhoea, and Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV) to accelerate efforts towards polio eradication. Next year, Kenya will introduce the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) vaccine that is expected to reduce cervical cancer cases. Development partners continue to partnrer with us to increase immunization coverage. In line with this, the Ministry of Health recently equipped 1,750 health facilities across the country with specialised vaccine storage equipment to improve access to vaccines. We are also on the grand march of eliminating mother to child transmission of HIV with the number of children infected with the virus during pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding at a record low. Our children are breastfeeding more and eating healthier leading to reduction in stunting from 32 per cent to 26 per cent. All the aforementioned interventions have led to the reduction in maternal deaths, and under five and infant deaths drastically. These achievements show us that being persistent and innovative can save the lives of mothers and their children, and ensure our girls stay in school. We can do it!  Kariuki is Health Cabinet Secretary