Turkana governor Josephat Nanok has opposed the amendment of the Constitution to create new posts in the executive Nanok, who is also the Council of Governors chairman, said he will only support the referendum if it will increase money allocated to the counties from 15 to 45 per cent. "I have heard some leaders saying they want the position of Prime Minister created. They also suggest the reduction of the number of parastatals and removal of the position of county commissioner." "I will only support the referendum if it is about more resources to counties," Nanok said during Mashujaa Day celebrations in Lodwar. The governor said it is too early to change the Constitution after six years of devolution. "We cannot tell whether devolution has worked or not. Let's stop this habit of rushing to change the Constitution. Let us not change what is already working," he said. Nanok said together leaders in Turkana, they will stand for what is right for the people. He said during the course of the week, the CoG will give a stand on the debate. Nanok said he will oppose any proposals aimed at killing devolution. More on this: I didn't say referendum a must, let Kenyans decide - Raila Related: Referendum push pure idle talk, says DP Ruto Also read: Raila, Atwoli drum up support for constitutional changes The debate of whether or not to change the Constitution has been raging on since President Uhuru Kenya and Opposition leader Raila Odinga buried the hatchet with their March 9 handshake. Opposition supporters back the proposal for inclusivity in representation. But in other quarters, the idea is loathed. On Friday last week, Raila and Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said constitutional changes are unstoppable. The leaders said a review of the Constitution promulgated in 2010 will ensure good governance. But opponents of the plan say it is a plot by some politicians to get positions through the back door. On October 12, Deputy President William Ruto termed the ongoing debate about the proposed referendum as pure idle talk. Ruto said it is unfortunate that many leaders are focused on the referendum issue and have forgotten about services to wananchi. The DP spoke during the commissioning of the Terem-Chwele-Nalondo water project in Terem, Mount Elgon. Supporters of the DP are unhappy about the clamour for constitutional changes. They see it as a scheme to stop Ruto from ascending to power after President Uhuru's term ends in 2022. There is a growing national conversation on the referendum with suggestions for a change in government structure to cut the burgeoning wage bill. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and political analyst Mutahi Ngunyi are among the voices that have backed the call. The lawmaker said he will only support efforts to change the Constitution if the idea is to ease the burden on Kenyans. Kuria said he agrees with Raila's calls but "these changes are about reducing the burden for Wanjiku." "It's about reducing elective and nominated positions not adding positions," he said. Click here the latest political news