The king of beats has joined forces with the biggest and most popular music streaming app in Kenya, Songa By Safaricom. King Kaka will be working closely with Songa by Safaricom to unleash his album, called 'Estlando Royalty', on November 30. The rapper has been on a campus tour, with activations concluding today at CUEA. He will also give 15 fans selected from various major towns an exclusive listening session with him of his yet-to-be-released album. Songa Music general manager Chinasa Udeala told Word Is, "King Kaka is that artiste whom every other artiste, both established and upcoming, looks up to, based on his body of work and other achievements outside of music. "Most notable is his campaign to make sure girls in rural areas stay in school by providing them with much-needed sanitary products — that says it all about him. We are definitely very proud to be supporting an act like King Kaka." Adding, "Songa is a music-driven product,so it's not so much about the style or genre but the music itself. Kaka, I would say, has galvanised a lot of youths through his music to take charge of their lives and do better. His positive thought process and the image of perseverance and hard work he has built for himself absolutely gels with the Songa brand." For the hip hop heads and rap enthusiasts, Chinasa recommended the album, saying: "I am a fan of hip hop, and what I can say is that this album is rich in content, with a couple of surprise international collaborations. I have already said too much; I won't want to give it all away. You will need to subscribe to Songa and stream the album when it drops to get what I mean." In addition to the campus tour, King Kaka will host a very exclusive VIP event, where he will unveil the cover art of his album as well as auction it off as an art piece. This is the first time ever an artiste has married the love for music and art. "Music is an art form and so is fine art — painting. It's all about expressionism," Chinasa explained. "Merging the two art forms (music and fine art), King Kaka not only conveys the dream of making it and becoming a success through his music, but with the cover art he also conveys this visually. I love it."