A middle aged Lamu man who escaped death in Saudi Arabia appealed to the Kenyan government to help him recover his benefits from the company he used to work for in Arabic nation. The 28 year old Ahmad Mohamed Adnan narrated the harrowing experience he went through at the hands of his former employer when he went to Saudi Arabia in pursuit of greener pastures in 2014. Adnan who used to work as a salesman for Saudi based company which cannot be named due to legal reasons. He says the company’s managers mistreated him for the four year period he worked for them. Speaking in Lamu on Wednesday,Adnan explained how his employers locked him up in a lonely room and tortured him for weeks after he decided from his job owing to the immense mistreatment. “They didn’t like the fact that I decided to quit my job yet they were treating me like an animal.When I presented my resignation letter to my manager and demanded by benefits,he ordered guards at the company to lock me up in a small room in the company compound and torture me for about two weeks.I don’t understand why someone would do that to another human being,”said Adnan. While locked up,the guards were also instructed to ensure he doesn’t eat,relieve himself or escape. He says all the time he was locked up,all his identification documents including his passport, Identity card and his mobile phone were confiscated by his employers. Adnan also says he fell sick while in ‘detention’ but was denied medical care and food by the employers whom he feels wanted him dead owing to the manner in which they treated him. He says he was eventually released but not before being forced to sign papers stating that he shall not demand a penny from the company in the name of benefits. “They released me but under one condition,that I didn’t demand anything from them and they made me sign papers to that effect.After that they gave me back my documents and phone and sent me packing without anything,”said Adnan. He came back into the country in September this year. “My fare back home was contributed by my mom and other relatives otherwise I don’t know how I would have managed to travel back,”he adds. Adnan however says he isn’t ready to let go of his hard earned fortune which amounts to close to Sh.300,000. He is now calling on the Kenya Embassy in Saudi Arabia to help him get justice which includes his benefits. “I tried reaching out to the Kenyan Embassy in Saudi Arabia so they could help me travel back but they didn’t help.My biggest plea however to the Kenyan government and the company management is to help me get my money,I worked for it.I have a family that depends entirely on me,I have a wife and a child.That money would change my life if I got it,”said Adnan. He says his experience has taught him a lesson and he has a message to desperate job seekers who wish to go to Saudi Arabia “I wish I would tell people not to go to that country but they have to decide what to do themselves.But one thing is for sure,there is need for caution and extreme care so that you don’t fall in the hands of killers,not every job opportunity is a job indeed,many are just traps for slavery and eventually death if you aren’t as lucky as me.