Maize farmers have asked the National Cerials and Produce Board to hasten payments of the balance owed to them after they received Sh900 million last week. The farmers’ spokesman, Christopher Kolum, said on Monday that the government should release all the Sh1.4 billion it promised last week and the Sh2.4 billion that the NCPB still owes farmers. “We don’t want to get into the next harvest season with debts,” Kolum said at a farmers’ meeting in Eldoret. Six hundred farmers were paid last week. The farmers have also asked the government to set aside Sh5 billion for NCPB to start buying maize, as the new harvesting season begins in a few weeks.  Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago  said the Treasury should release an additional Sh2.4 billion to pay farmers still owed by the NCPB.  The county boss said farmers are about to start harvesting, yet they have not been paid for maize delivered since last year. “We need the government to prepare early so we do not fall into the problems we experienced this year,” Mandago said. Speaking in Uasin Gishu last Sunday Deputy President William Ruto said there should be strategies to cushion farmers against perennial problems. The DP and Mandago said farmers should consider value addition to help solve marketing problems.The two spoke at an event hosted by the African Inland Church in Kamagut, Turbo subcounty,  Mandago asked small cooperatives to consider merging and forming trade outfits that can invest in milling plants.“The problem that we faced as government in buying maize is that we got more maize than what had been budgeted for,” the DP said. He said value addition  through processing was part of the Big Four agenda. “When cooperatives establish their own milling plants, they can compete with other producers and realise big returns,” Ruto said. Mandago said his county had already set aside money to finance cooperative societies. “Farmers in Soy and Moiben are in the process of establishing their milling plant and others should follow,” he said. The farmers in Rift Valley have also backed calls for a referendum to amend the constitution if it will help deal with issues affecting the agriculture sector.