After flying in a new head coach, AFC Leopards are set to complete the signing of five new players by November 5 as they embark on their preparations for the new Kenya Premier League season set to begin on December 8. Leopards, who parted ways with Argentine coach Rodolfo Zapata last season, replaced him with Serbian nation Nikola Kavazovic last week and they are hoping to bring in five new players in a week’s time. Leopards, who are gunning to endtheir 20-year Kenya Premier League drought, have revealed that negotiations between them and the five players are at an advanced stage and their identities will be reveled once they sign their contracts. Leopards, who have recently extended the contracts of the duo of Whyvonne Isuza and Robinson Kamuara, were forced to deep into the transfer market in search of replacements for departed skipper Duncan Otieno, who left for Zambia-based Nkana Red Devils and Nigerian striker Alex Orotomal, who joined St George’s of Ethiopia. According to the Leopards’ secretary general, Oscar Igaidah the five were arrived at after consultations between the new coach and the members of the technical bench who served under Zapata last season. “We want to sign five players before the November 5 and I can confirm that negotiations are at advanced stage. We are acting on recommendations from the new coach and the other members of the technical bench who identified them. Two or three are foreign based players and we will unveil them once we complete the negotiations. We want to begin our preseason next week and we will only begin once we are done with bolstering the playing unit.” Meanwhile, the 2018 SportPesa Premier League 2018 Midfielder of the Year, Cliff Nyakeya is keen on winning titles with his Mathare United club. The former Gor Mahia Youth starlet scored 14 goals and ten assists in 34 matches in this year’s campaign en-route to clinching the Midfielder of the Year accolade. "I am very happy. It’s so fulfilling to have something to show for the hard work you have put in all season. This award is for the team, the coach and the playing unit. They have been very supportive and I couldn’t achieve this without them,” said Nyakeya on the club’s official portal