In the past, the elites — politicians and business people — jointly endorsed one their own to take power. But today in Central Kenya counties, many other people — the middle class, entrepreneurs and the grassroots — say the status quo has not benefitted them. They want to take up the leadership mantle, including that of kingpin of the Kikuyu, now President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kiambu has produced two presidents, Jomo Kenyatta and his son Uhuru. Nyeri has produced Mwai Kibaki. The other regions — Meru, Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Laikipia and Nyandarua — feel isolated from accessing government resources, plum jobs, development projects and tenders. “There are many platforms provided by law that include petitions to relevant offices, amendments, direct registration by citizens because leaders are not doing anything,” convener of the Mt Kenya Resources Forum James Mwangi said in a phone interview. Mwangi is among those who lead Kenyatta’s campaigns in 2013. The team included entrepreneurs and artists, who later formed the Movement of Hustlers and Artists (Mohas). The group was later disbanded by the state. The groups today are resisting the establishment and those who have been in power since Independence. Those
in power have used the churches, chama (women groups), music and social
media platforms to push their political agenda. But these platforms are
slowly being taken over by people who boldly criticise the status
quo and raise uncomfortable questions. Previously, no one would stand up
against the status quo for fear of intimidation. “The
curse of Mau Mau still lives and the children of Mau Mau
continue suffering. Oppressors must pay attention to what I am saying,” Muigai Wa Njoroge says in his song titled  Mbari ya Kimendero. The
song claims that one family and their close allies have benefitted from
the Mau Mau sweat. Wa Njoroge says that those in power have failed to
push for the interests of the majority and deliver. “It is all about issues and having a person in government to secure their business interests,” International Center for Policy and Conflict executive director Ndung’u Wainaina said in a phone interview on Friday. Wainaina said the establishment would prefer to groom one of their own to lead the country. Most of those who have switched allegiance were in Uhuru’s campaign team. “The handshake task force is all about succession politics and those in power are ready to amend the Constitution to protect their interests. They prefer a person who will take care of the historical pedigree and the Kenyatta and Moi interests,”  Wainaina said. In July, Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe said party MPs, especially from Mt Kenya, had been asked to push for the government agenda and avoid 2022 politics. They also have been gagged, ordered not to appear in the media to speak for Jubilee. Those behind night meetings of disgruntled Jubilee members say the party's gag order after the March 9 handshake was meant to silence dissidents and those involved in succession intrigues. The directive is seen as part of a wider scheme to pull the carpet from under Deputy President William Ruto who appears to be actively campaigning for president. “There are many things going on and you can see both the DP and PNU want to start nationwide activities as well as start new warfare. A number of former politicians want to create a strong force within the parties,” a Jubilee insider allied to Ruto told the Star. However, the dissidents are now using the clergy, politicians, professionals, and entrepreneurs to speak to power and set their agenda. “People are waking up and resisting discrimination in resource allocation. Article 7 of the Constitution makes clear that it's illegal to discriminate against a people and or a region," Mwangi said. Many residents say only a few have benefited from the Uhuru’s presidency. “Our commodities, including tea and coffee, are auctioned in Mombasa like wastage, while we have maize with fixed prices. People are taking charge of their welfare,” Mwangi said. In July, traders in Nairobi — River Road and Nyamakima — staged protests against what they called harassment by government agencies and destruction of their goods. There has been harassment by government agencies going into shops, warehouses and even homes where they purport to inspect goods belonging to traders," Nairobi Importers and Traders Association chairman Ben Mutahi said. Dissidents argue that the status quo has not improved their lives, despite the region producing three presidents. “Empowerment should not be imagined. It should be tabulated and calculated,” Mwangi said Those who spoke to the Star said the emerging contentious issues, such as the battle to control Murang’a water, succession politics and the push to register new parties are the tip of the iceberg in an expected battle ahead of 2022 polls. DP Ruto has camped in the region, ostensibly to launch projects and take part in harambees — which build his support base. “The protests over Murang’a water are about the economy and politics. First, the people must be heard, Second, that water might be going into private investments, whereas the Murang'a people are suffering,” Ndungu said. Many of those opposed to the current leadership are worried about details of a possible referendum. They say it could be linked to calls to give President Kenyatta something to do after his second, five-year term ends in 2022. He will be only 61. They also argue that those close to power access plum jobs and multi-billion shilling tenders, whereas no one can point a viable project successfully executed by the current administration in Mt Kenya. They say contracts already awarded have been used to steal public funds. The 'masses' are protesting against poor services in public facilities. They include sharing of beds in hospitals, poor infrastructure, lack of medicine and stalling of projects, such as the Karatina Open Air Market in Nyeri. They also feel the pain of rising taxes and rising cost of living — without getting value for their money. On Thursday Nairobi MCAs were drawn into Mt Kenya politics to condemn Murang’a county's proposal to impose a 25 per cent tax on Ndakaini Dam water, calling it economic sabotage and incitement. “This is pure incitement and we know the politics going on. Murang'a senator Irungu Kang’ata wants to succeed [Governor Mwangi] wa Iria, while the governor wants to become Deputy President in 2022,” Nairobi water committee chairman Paul Kados said. In his column on August 29 titled 'Uhuru has time for meetings on development,' Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu appeared to defend Uhuru over the backlash on development. He said the meeting between the President and county leaders dispelled the myth that the president does not have time to meet elected leaders or listen to them. 