The Public Relations Society of Kenya (PRSK) has made two significant steps that would define the communication management landscape. First, was the launch of a strategic plan. Second, was the appointment and commissioning of a task force to explore ways of professionalising the practice in this fluid, misunderstood and often underrated industry. Good first steps, but execution and gaining momentum matter more. Documents such as strategic plans and reports from task forces are not achievements on their own. They should not be treated as mere items in a checklist to be ticked off as accomplished tasks. On the contrary, these are commitments that should be used to transform the industry and practice. Recent crises have exposed the industry's underbelly. Management reactions to crises have turned out to be bigger calamities than the actual crises. Whether that is a result of ignoring expert advice, or following “expert” advice will make for an interesting discussion. The other challenge is the power of social media, influencers, and citizen activism over the reputation of brands. These experiences demonstrate the unpreparedness of the industry to deal with contemporary challenges facing organisations. The work of PRSK is clearly cut out. Inclusion of practitioners into this fragmented profession is crucial. The society should be evaluated on its success in serving members and enhancing their professional development. There should be efforts towards inclusion through a credible certification and accreditation system with clear progression from entry, through technician to expert level. This process ought to take care of those who have gained practical experience over time, without the requisite academic qualifications; while safeguarding the professional standards. There is need to improve the knowledge of the market about the discipline and practice of PR. Most important is to change how key players conceive and perceive PR and communication management. Professionals must and should define the profession at all times. The society should not let others, often ignorant ones, define what the profession is and what it stands for. Stakeholders such as employers, clients and students should appreciate the value of strategic communication. Placement of the function as a top management role within the organisation, with the attendant budgetary support and access to top leadership is important. The recent Gaborone statement by APRA (Africa Public Relations Association, of which PRSK is a member) defined PR as, “The strategic management function that fosters understanding, builds strong reputation, promotes good governance, ethical behaviour and optimises diversity with all stakeholders using all forms of communication and research.” The practice needs to debunk the misconception that PR is limited to media relations and publicity. PR is grounded on problem-solving and opportunity-seeking strategies for building relationships and advancing organisations' reputations through ethical means. In this regard, the contribution of PR to communication management, social change and the development agenda such as the Big Four need not be overemphasised. The society has shown a clear intent to professionalise the industry. But, what does professionalisation entail? Must it only be anchored in law or are there some professional codes of conduct and standards that would guide PR as a profession? What sanctions will exist to deal with violations of these professional codes? Will all practitioners be brought on board voluntarily or through compulsion? I believe the task force will have answers to these questions. For a long time PRSK has punched below its weight. But the sleeping giant is steadily regaining consciousness and reclaiming its dignity back. The strategic approach by PRSK, if well executed, lays a firm foundation that will steer the profession to the league of established professional bodies in the region. The industry seems to be growing going by the number of institutions offering the course and students studying this discipline. But has this translated into growth of the industry? The answer is yes and no. Yes, organisations are increasingly recognising the role of PR and communication management. And no, in the sense that the quality of professional standards are diminishing. This writing may sound as a wish-list for the industry for the next few years, but all indications point to the fact that the waiting won’t be long. Communications practitioner and vice president and council member of the Public Relations Society of Kenya. The views expressed are his own and not those of the council    