Jubilee politician Francis Mwangi has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to constitute a special committee to look into demolition of buildings in the city. Speaking to the Star on the phone yesterday, he said the current wave of demolitions has left genuine businesspeople and investors suffering, many being reduced to paupers. The demolitions steered by the Nairobi Regeneration team started in August with around 4,000 buildings earmarked for demolition to remove illegal structures from river banks in Nairobi. The demolition squad now targets Seefar apartment, which the team says encroaches on riparian land. The building was constructed between 2011 and 2014 after it was commisisoned by then Housing minister Soita Shitanda. "Some owners have taken loans and are still servicing them. Since approvals were done by government bodies, the state should compensate the victims," Mwangi said. He said ordinary investors are not document examiners and rely on approvals by government officials. Mwangi said the committee should comprise Governor Mike Sonko, other city leaders, the religious leaders and other stakeholders. He said demolition of buildings and homes goes against the spirit of providing housing for all as captured under President Uhuru's Big Four Agenda. "In unavoidable scenarios, property owners should be given two years to demolish their structures in an orderly manner and salvage what is possible systematically," Mwangi said. He said government officials who gave the approvals should be punished. Mwangi added that intended demolitions of residential units have even affected children, some sitting for their national examinations in the next few days. This comes days after Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja termed the ongoing demolitions unfair. He spoke when the National Assembly Environment committee made a fact finding tour to Seefar apartment.The property owner has been served with a 30-days demolition notice by Nema and Warma. "It is very hypocritical to push for affordable housing yet the same government is leading a demolition of more than 4,000 units. The interests of the people should not be overlooked in the name of saving the environment," Sakaja said. The Senator said inasmuch as the government wants to conserve the environment, the team should come up with better ways that will not hurt property owners. In June, the committee identified Limuru Road, Lang’ata Road, Arboretum, Spring Valley, Globe Cinema Round-About and Riverside Drive as some of the areas with developments sitting on river banks. Others include Westlands, Parklands, Fuata Nyayo estate in South B, Village market, Gem Suites in Riverside and Alina Villas in Spring Valley. Some of the buildings flattened so far include Airgate Mall, Shell Petrol Station in Kileleshwa, Nakumatt Ukay Mall in Westlands and Southend Mall on Lang'ata Road. The regeneration exercise received Sh800 million for the 2018/19 financial year.