A visit by Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi to launch development projects in Ngare Mara has triggered a boundary dispute with Isiolo, with angry county leaders claiming ownership of the ward. Kiraitu toured the area on Tuesday last week and launched the first borehole project. He said he did not campaign in the area as he thought it is in Isiolo. “It’s only recently that I learnt it is in Meru county and decided to launch the sinking of boreholes,” Kiraitu said. The county boss said the area is in Muthara ward. Isiolo North MP Hassan Oda, however, said Kiraitu should have launched water projects in Meru county rather than bringing them to Ngare Mara, which he said is in Isiolo. “We do not want funds from Meru. It is illegal to spend even a coin in Isiolo county. Kiwanja, Kisima and Gambela primary schools are registered in Isiolo and supervised by director from the county,” Oda said. The MP added that there is no law that allows anyone to adjudicate community land. “The moment you leave Isiolo town heading to Garba Tula, the left side of the highway is part and parcel of Isiolo county,” Oda said. He said illegal collection of tax and resources will not be allowed, and that they will resist any attempt to annex any part of Isiolo. The High Court ruled the boundary between the two counties should be resolved by an independent commission set up by Parliament. In a judgement delivered by Justice John Mativo on behalf of Justice Isaac Lenaola, the court ruled that no activity should be carried on disputed land with intention of demarcating it. Chairman of Turkana Council of Elders Libuni Ekitera said the community should be in Isiolo. “There is no day I have heard Governor [Mohamed] Kuti taking development projects to Meru. So, we are telling Governor Kiraitu to respect Isiolo county and its leaders,” Ekitera said. County secretary Ahmed Galgalo said Ngare Mara is politically and administratively in Isiolo. “We may have a boundary dispute, which was pursued by previous regime and a judgement was made,” Galgalo said. He said they will meet to make sure Isiolo county is not encroached. “We urge residents to be restrained as we solve this issue. I also want to tell the neighbouring counties that we should form an inter-counties relations committee that will handle any emerging conflict without provoking each other,” Galgalo said. During his visit Kiraitu said he has good working relationship with Governor Kuti. “We have good working relationship with Governor Kuti. We worked for many years in government. We even launched the Isiolo Airport together. Small petty issues that were there are over as we are now friends,” Kiraitu said.