Liverpool Vs Cardiff City, Today 5pm, My Prediction: Reds.... 3 Cardiff....1 Liverpool are still unbeaten in the Premier league this season and even though they looked extremely shaky in their last outing, they achieved what champion sides achieve— a win on a bad day. Jurgen Klopp has created a side with such valuable mental strength that even when they have key injuries or are fatigued, they still deliver. Midweek, they were convincing in the Champions League with a 4-0 victory over Crvena Zvezda though I would like to see that result against a big European side. Cardiff are struggling. They have just one win since the season started and it was a 4-2 victory over newly promoted side Fulham, who are in the relegation zone. Manager Neil Warnock said after the Fulham win that their season had just started and if they were facing a mid level team, I would bet on their confidence to spur them to a result today but they are facing Mo Salah, Firmino, Mane, Sturidge, Sorry Neil. Burnley Vs Chelsea, Tomorrow 3:30pm, My Prediction: Burnley....0 Blues....2 Burnley have two wins, two losses and a draw in their last five matches. Last weekend, they travelled to Manchester to face City and left with egg on their faces following a 5-0 drubbing. That wasn’t fair of City’s ex-keeper Joe Hart but it was the reality. Burnley are 13th in the league but just three points above the relegation zone and they have won just one home game this season—a 4-0 drubbing of Bournemouth. Today, they welcome the inform Blues and I pity them. Chelsea, like Liverpool and Man City, are unbeaten this season and looking good. Maurizio Sarri has tamed his team to the point, where everyone is focused on their game. Even Eden Hazard, who is having a dream season, has put talk of a transfer to Spain on hold and wants to do well. Many critics say he is carrying the team, and while he is so key to their great results this term, the credit needs to be shared. Burnley will be no competition for them though as Chelsea are favoured to extend their run this weekend. Crystal Palace Vs Arsenal, Tomorrow 3:30pm, My Prediction: Palace...0 Gunners...2 Oh Arsenal… 11 wins on the trot and looking good. Sporting Lisbon may have given us a hard time in Portugal on Thursday but as I keep saying; “a champion side is one who gets results even on a difficult day.” And the Gunners got an all important win in the Europa League. In the league, you have to go way way back to a time I cannot remember to record the Gunners last loss or even draw. Unai Emery has done something so magical with the team that they are such a joy to watch. Monday’s game against Leicester was like watching art at work. The players are so insync that I could praise them for days but my editor needs this column in the next few minutes. Petr Cech is back from injury but Emery spared him on Thursday because frankly, he didn’t need him. Infact while it would be nice to have him back between the sticks, he doesn’t need to be rushed as Bernd Leno is doing just fine and growing in the league. Crystal Palace have lost six matches since the league started and that includes their last three games against Everton, Wolves and Bournemouth. So, really their season isn’t doing well. With the Gunners at full strength and Emery spoilt for choice in so many areas, Palace stand no chance against us here. Man United Vs Everton, Tomorrow 6pm, My Prediction: Red Devils ...1 Toffees...1 Manchester United is a team I’m enjoying watching this season because their performance is like a comedy of errors. Actually in all truth, It’s more fun watching their fans than the team itself. Seeing them makes one understand how Arsenal fans were suffering during Arsene Wenger’s last years. But apart from some areas of defence, Jose Mourinho has a good team. But we are seeing experienced players like Ashley Young making child-like errors and it is all down to their current mental strength. This United side can beat any team in Europe right now but not if they are not mentally present and truth be told they aren’t. During their Tuesday game against Juventus, there were episodes where they looked like champions of the world but then quickly degenerated as if on cue, allowing the Italian club to walk away with their slim but very important win. How United lost their edge in the last minute of last weekend’s league match against Chelsea cannot go unmentioned. Again, it was a lack of mental strength. Manchester United are 10th in the league; 9 games in. Unbelievable! And yet everyone at the club is still insisting that Mourinho’s job is safe. The likes of Wolves and Bournemouth are ahead of them. Wuh! In their least five league games, they have two wins two draws and a loss. Everton have a good chance of getting points at Old Trafford today. They have three wins on the trot coming into this game and Marco Silva will be confident going into this. And confidence it seems is enough to beat the Red Devils these days.