There is a notion being pushed vociferously that a good film is one that teaches values and morals to adults. This standard of what makes a good film, a standard that sadly extends to plays and even stories, is largely propagated by the Kenya Film Classification Board, its CEO Dr Ezekiel Mutua, and the good doctor’s adherents. I don’t agree with this notion. You see, there are three kinds of fiction films: good films, bad films, and films that teach values and morals. This last kind, however, the teach-and-preach films Dr Mutua and his cohorts consider good, aren’t quite films, exactly. In my view, they’re dramatised educational features, and calling them films, and good films at that, is a bit of stretch. I do understand, though, where this misguided notion of what a good film story is comes from. It’s two places actually. The first is our oral traditions. Before the advent of the Bible, the white man and writing, storytelling is how elders passed down knowledge, ethics, values and morals from one generation to the next. That said, it wasn’t the case that an adult sat down his age mates to tell them what’s what by way of yarn-spinning. Teaching values and morals through story was something done to the younger generation, or, if you like, children. The main point to take from this, though, is this was way back when, in other words, it’s history. The second place where this idea that storytelling should teach and preach comes from is our education system. Think back to your school days, how our young, malleable minds were taught to look at stories in all those literature lessons. In my day, for instance, we covered, The River Between, The Concubine, Things Fall Apart and Romeo and Juliet. All good stories, and I even fell in love with Ihuoma from The Concubine, but whether a story was entertaining or utter nonsense is not something we covered in the lessons. Instead, we were taught to analyse. What is the theme? What is the motive of this character and that character? What is the moral of the story? What values, cultural, social or otherwise, are in the story? And so now we end up with this problem, of people who don’t know what to look out for when judging film cannot tell apart a film from a dramatised educational feature, and people who are unaware that film adult audiences are not on quest for themes and morals when they sit down with a bucket of popcorn to watch a movie. It’s simple, really. You watch film like you eat cake. You take a cake fork. You cut a small piece of cake with it. You pick up the cake (using the fork). You then put the cake in your mouth, to savour and enjoy if it tastes good, or spit out if it’s vile. Nobody analyses cake. There’s nothing in cake; not lessons, morals, or values to look out for. Just like film, you consume cake and enjoy it, or not, depending on the quality, and that’s it. You only look for morals and values in cake if you don’t know what a cake is. The same applies to film. And just so we’re clear, it is not a film if it does not lift you from the muck of the everyday, to transport you far from the monotony that is reality.