The national government has finally disbursed Sh649 million to rehabilitate and reconstruct four key Lamu jetties, which have been dilapidated for many years. Transport and Infrastructure PS Paul Maringa yesterday said the break down for the amount has been done. Mokowe Customs Jetty will get Sh520 million, the Mtangawanda jetty has been allocated Sh62 million, the Manda airport Sh35 million, while Sh32 million will go to the renovation of the Lamu Mangrove Customs Jetty. Maringa spoke when he toured Lamu to inspect the jetties. He said construction work on all the affected jetties will start next month.  He said the three smaller jetties — the Mtangawanda, Manda airport and Lamu — will be ready by May next year. The Mokowe Customs Jetty, which is the largest in Lamu, will be ready in two years. “We have received Sh649 million from the Treasury. We will be done with the three smaller jetties by the end of May 2019, while the Mokowe Customs Jetty will be done by 2021.We are trying to speed up the work because these are avenues used on a daily basis, and unlike roads, you cant create a diversion,” Maringa said. The PS said advertisement and tendering processes are underway. He expressed confidence that with a more defined and reliable transport system, Lamu will be open to more investment, trade opportunities and boost tourism. “All this will not just improve movement and transport for the people of Lamu, but will also change the appeal of Lamu,” he  said. Jetties are a crucial element of Lamu’s transport system as they are the main entry and exit points to the town and adjacent islands. However, all the major jetties are currently structurally unsound due to poor maintenance. Last month, a pontoon detached from its piles at the dilapidated Mtangawanda Jetty in Lamu East and disappeared into the Indian Ocean. It has never been recovered and the Kenya Maritime Authority office has warned that it’s a danger to navigation in the region. There had been questions and annoyance over the delay by the Treasury to release the funds for the rehabilitation of the jetties, which had been allocated back in 2016.