Enterpreneurs interested in investing in the hospitality industry should work with the requisite tourism institutions to construct structures that give value to the business. Architects, interior designers and hospitality industry players agreed it is important to work together from design to construction and finish of hospitality facilities so as to present impressive buildings that are sustainable. They also entered a partnership, with Tourism Finance Corporation, Tourism Regulatory Authority and UN-Habitat in a partnership with Architectural Association of Kenya to sensitize architects and interior designers on the best hospitality architecture practices. TFC said it can finance interested investors to the tune to Sh100 million to build hotel facilities, and encouraged those targeting the counties to dialogue with a view of conforming to sustainable standards, hospitality project planning principles and financing. TFC is a specialised Development Financial Institution (DFI) tasked with facilitating and providing affordable development funding for long-term investment in the tourism industry and has continued to provide project and loan funding to prospective investors It was tasked by Vision 2030 to develop a capacity of 65,000 beds by 2030, expected to be achieved through credit funding to potential investors, rehabilitation and upgrading of existing lodging facilities and investing in new star rated hotels. “Architects need to be assertive in promoting design values, intelligent in understanding and interpreting brand values, and maintaining design standards as outlined in the tourism regulatory authority regulations,” TFC MD Jonah Orumoi said. Modern hotel designs are bolder, more colourful and imaginative. Innovative hotels have added full creations as well as glamour into them, giving travellers new choices. Architects should pay more attention to design of interior spaces. Architecture stands out since it not only facilitates investments, synthesizes the requirements of comfort and entertainment or organizes activities, technologies and spaces, but also creates identities and produces the imagery and iconography associated with branding of the tourism investors,” he said.