Nasa MCAs want their assembly leaders replaced, accusing them of high-handedness and intimidation. The move follows the warning by minority leader Elias Otieno and chief whip Peter Imwatok against going to bed with Governor Sonko’s administration. The two have dismissed the claims as wild and blamed a few disgruntled MCAs who were removed ‘for incitement’ from the speaker’s panel and House committees. The feuding has been going on for a month, drawing the attention of ODM’s national leadership. It now wants to end the impasse. “After consultation with a section of ODM MCAs and the party leader, you are advised to put on hold any changes to committee representation as we explore ways of reconciling our members,” party chairman John Mbadi told Otieno in a letter dated October 17. It was copied to Imwatok, party leader Raila Odinga and the executive director. Grievances Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya, who last week was removed from the speaker’s panel, said his troubles started last month when he opposed leaders’ decision to purge speaker Beatrice Elachi During committee reshuffles on Tuesday, Obuya was removed from the Business and the Powers and Privileges committees. He said he was punished and intimidated for telling off leaders against removing Elachi from her position. “Removing members without reason is impunity. It means the member has been denied a chance to represent the people,” Obuya said. He said they have presented a petition to Opposition leader Raila to have the two dismissed from their posts. Some 33 of 58 Nasa members signed it, he said. “Otieno and his team must go. We want a leadership that is tolerant and can accommodate people who have different opinions,” Obuya said. Otieno’s future sealed Five ODM legislators, who spoke off the record, said they are only waiting for Raila’s response before they show Otieno the door. “He is incompetent. He cannot argue a case. He never protects his members as his Majority counterpart does. He is arrogant and has to go,” a ward rep said. But Otieno said the “few renegades” will not stop him. “I take my time to act but when I do, that’s the way it is. Whether you got a letter or not, once the whip ousts a member of a committee, you’re automatically discharged,” Otieno said. Imwatok said they reshuffled the panel and committees to revamp them after they realised most Nasa MCAs had become ineffective and were submitting to their Jubilee counterparts and the executive. “The members making noise have joined the governor in all his church services, convoys and meetings. Were our members fighting before the governor? I see the others as part of the executive,” he said. Imwatok dismissed claims the committee changes targeted those who supported Elachi. He said he and Otieno are appointees of the party and cannot be removed through collection of signatures. Imatok said they are discharging their duties to ensure the Minority members perform their oversight role. He said residents suffer from poor services because members do not hold the executive to account. “The other day, Murang’a brought up this issue of water. None of our members has told me what he or she has done. Same for roads — most projects are in Jubilee wards yet we have members in these committees. I think we have only done 20 to 30 per cent of what we are supposed to do,” he said. Nominated MCA Mary Arivitsa, who on September 25 stormed the chamber shouting after her name was proposed for acting speaker, called Otieno and Imwatok “dictators who make unilateral decisions without consulting the members”. Arivitsa, a staunch Elachi supporter, was removed from the powerful Transport and Public Works committee.