Tharaka Nithi senator Kithure Kindiki's chances of becoming the Deputy President in 2022 seem to have nosedived. Kindiki, the Majority leader in the 11th Parliament, was a key player in President Uhuru Kenyatta's first term. Sources say he was consulted on numerous occasions and became Jubilee's 'Mr Fix It', and playing an important role in stopping the looming referendum urged by the opposition. This placed Kindiki at the centre of power and he was among the highly placed politicians in the Mt Kenya region of Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Meru. It was this elevation that made the senator, who was then considered a political novice, aim higher and perhaps bite off more than he could chew.  TOO QUICK TO REVEAL HIS CARDS?  They say politics is like poker. Don't be too quick to show your cards. But Kindiki might have revealed his hand too soon. Early in 2015 Kindiki was installed a Njuri Ncheke elder in a ceremony at Chiakariga shrine, Tharaka. He thus became the Meru spokesman and the leader of the community in government. His coronation resulted in a split within the Njuri Ncheke council. The then Meru governor Peter Munya marshalled a splinter group and denounced Kindiki's endorsement. He declared officials who endorsed Kindiki to be outcasts. There were new elections, in which secretary general Phares Rutere and chairman Paul M'ithinkia were removed and replaced by Joshat Murangiri and Linus Kathera, respectively. "Meru can speak for itself. We have elected leaders and we, therefore, do not need other people to speak on our behalf," Munya said. Kindiki had used the ceremony to announce his ambitions to run for president in 2022 or be a candidate for deputy president. Playing this card has not worked out well to date. Njuri Ncheke elders are still bickering over the legitimate faction and have gone to court. The issues are yet to be resolved.  LACK OF CONSOLIDATED SUPPORT What are you bringing to the table? This is a common question asked of someone seeking positions or stakes in coalitions. Therefore, a person seeking to be a running mate in 2022 would be expected to have support in their backyard — and this could be the biggest cause of Kindiki's undoing. The senator had a strained relationship with former Tharaka Nithi governor Samuel Ragwa, and he ended up supporting Chuka Igambang'ombe MP Muthomi Njuki for governor. Kindiki and Njuki campaigned together and were both victorious. However their friendship did not last for even a year. Now Kindiki and Njuki do not see eye to eye and during the Tharaka Cultural Festival, Njuki left in a huff soon after Kindiki arrived. Further, Kindiki does not have very good relationship with MPs Patrick Munene (Chuka Igambang'ombe), Beatrice Nkatha (Tharaka Nithi Woman Representative) and Kareke Mbiuki (Maara). Although Nkatha and Kareke have been somewhat vocal in proposing Kindiki for deputy president, they have not done the same in neighbouring counties. Kindiki, however, has the backing of MP George Murugara (Tharaka). Being a first-time legislator, Murugara is not aggressive outside Tharaka Nithi. Kindiki has also been out of touch with many residents. This was the case when he sought reelection last year, as he spent too much on Jubilee politics in Nairobi, only to return too close to the polls and not in time to to salvage his second term from businessman Francis Kiambi, who had gathered a lot of support. Despite Kindiki seeking to be Ruto's running mate, he has missed several of the DP's functions in Tharaka Nithi. In August, Kindiki was not present when Ruto opened the Tharaka Cultural Festival. On October 6, Kindiki was also missing in action at a harambee to raise funds to buy a Knut bus at Kibugua, Chuka Igambang'ombe. Last Friday, 12 MCAs visited Baringo senator Gideon Moi and held a closed-door meeting. They were led by Majority leader Murithi Gaturo of Karingani ward. The reps said they would support Gideon, if he runs for president because "residents have a special connection to former President Daniel Moi." Muthambi MCA Wilson Nyaga said Tharaka Nithi has been sidelined, despite supporting previous regimes. "We always follow people and vote for them but we get almost nothing for our support. That must change. We want to know what is in it for us if we support someone," Nyaga said. The MCAs said Kindiki failed to help them a secure a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta to discuss county development. "We engaged him to secure a meeting with President Kenyatta five months ago and he has not responded. That is why we opted to go to Gideon if he can help us," Murithi Gaturo said. They said that despite numerous visits by the deputy president, there are no tangible development projects, compared to other counties, "a clear indication that Tharaka Nithi has been left out n the cold". Already seven MCA allied to Jubilee have been summoned by the party disciplinary committee.  THE HANDSHAKE Immediately after the March 9 handshake, Kindiki cautioned that Nasa leader Raila Odinga's engagement with President Kenyatta could scuttle Jubilee's succession plans. He welcomed the two leaders' unity bid but warned the ruling coalition's members that Raila's entry might scuttle the 2022 General Election scheme. "Jubilee should be cautious so that Raila does not mess it up ahead of 2022,"  he said at a Sunday service at Word of Faith Church in Mukothima, Tharaka. Following the September 2016 merger — in which Uhuru's TNA and Ruto's URP merged long with smaller parties to endorse the president's second term — the understanding and expectations were that the DP is the heir apparent. It is feared, however, that Raila's entry into Uhuru's inner circle could alter the equation. Kindiki said, "Raila has a history of breaking parties whenever he joins coalitions...He formed a coalition with Kanu in 1997with LDP only to implode it from within." "Raila is like a camel that told a house owner to only allow it's head into the shelter, only to ask for his hump to be allowed in too." "After it was finally allowed, the entire camel came inside and the house crumbled....We do not want that to happen to Jubilee," Kindiki told the congregation. He said Jubilee already has agreed to front Ruto for president in 2022. Kindiki, a two-time senator since devolution, is a staunch supporter of DP Ruto and had been tipped as a likely running mate. But what can he bring to the table? Other politicians Ruto might pick as his deputy include Munya, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi.       