President Uhuru Kenyatta has reinstated the license of the Presbyterian University of East Africa. The Head of the state on Sunday handed back the letter of interim authority to the university on grounds that the government is satisfied with the progress made by the university to meet the required standards. He spoke at St Andrews PCEA on Sunday. Uhuru told the leadership of the institution to continue implementing all the recommendations made by the government. Presbyterian University was shut down in January this year after Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i, who was then Education CS, revoked its licence. The university, which started operations in 2007, was found to be in a financial crisis. Read: Presbyterian University’s licence is revoked, students to be transferred But Uhuru said PCEA Church has been instrumental in the growth of the education and health sectors in the country besides spreading the gospel. “Your commitment to establish the Presbyterian University of East Africa as a top-notch institution of higher learning is reflective of your enduring spirit and your effort to progress the training of our people. The government is cognisant of these efforts and commends you,” said the President. Uhuru challenged religious leaders to be in the forefront in championing true values. He told parents to impart the right values to children, saying that is the only sure way of building a strong moral society. The Head of State said cases of exam leakage are as a result of parents wanting their children to achieve higher grades, which in the end do not benefit them “Where does a child get Sh100,000 to pay for a stolen exam? Isn’t it you who give them?” the President asked. He said parents should stop the culture of pressurising their children to achieve particular grades in school knowing well God has given each individual their gifts and talents. Read: Presbyterian university battles suspension, tells students to stay “Let us allow our children to develop, let us not encourage them to take shortcuts to get degrees that end up being meaningless because the child was not properly prepared and all that you have done is to buy exams,” Uhuru said. The President said children who may not be able to make it to universities can be absorbed into technical colleges. Rt Rev Julius Guantai Mwambai, the Moderator of the Presbyterian Church of East Africa, delivered the sermon in which he challenged Kenyans to work hard to build a strong and stable nation. Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja and his nominated colleague Beth Mugo were among other leaders who spoke during the church service. Sakaja commended the President for his steadfastness in steering the country on the path of national unity and economic prosperity. “It is said leaders think of the next generation and politicians think of the next election, you have demonstrated that you are a true leader,” Sakaja said. Also Read: Students blame management over directive to shut PUEA varsity