I am still reeling from the cruel hand of fate that has robbed Kenya of one of the most amazing families of five of its members in road accidents this year. Another Vohra, Sandy, died in a road crash in Ethiopia a decade ago. Every Vohra I knew carried the gospel of service close to their hearts. It was that commitment to philanthropy and service that took Mohinder and Swarna Kaur Vohra, both 82, and their three children to Makueni’s Makindu Hope Academy last weekend. I know no family anywhere where virtually every member acted to ease the deprivations that afflict the less fortunate. I knew Sandy’s father Chani the best, and there are not many better people in the corporate world anywhere. He was utterly idealistic, constantly trying to figure out the complexities of the Kenya reality in order to seek ways for our people to do better, apart from giving generously and innovatively to the needy. He was also deeply spiritual, and always thoughtful, including about the central role of the media, and trying to push it to be more progressive. In 2004, soon after I returned home after my retirement from the UN, he asked me to offer some thoughts over lunch to a group of our young, promising journalists. But to ensure the journalist’s attendance, he had also invited Mr Charles Njonjo – Chani was clever! Later, my wife Pat and I invited a few thoughtful Kenyans from the civil society and academic worlds to discuss ways Kenya could fulfil its already struggling democratic promise. Chani was the only businessman among them, because I thought of him primarily as a thinker, although of course he relied on his superb business acumen to explore philanthropy. The audience for our discussion at that tea was British High Commissioner Sir Edward Clay. My heart goes out to the surviving Vohras. I cannot imagine any nightmare worse than losing four family members at one time. May God give them strength to cope with this, but they should also draw strength from the amazing family history – and continue that tradition of service. Someone in the Kenyan hierarchy of influence should try to get formal recognition for the family’s history of good deeds.