Note holders of the Britam Holdings’ Sh6 billion bond will receive payment in November, the firm has announced. The early redemption follows a green light by the holders to Britam six months before its maturity scheduled for July 15, 2019 after a meeting held with the Britam board yesterday at Britam Towers. According to Britam boss Benson Wairegi, the decision to make early redemption of the bond is pegged on sufficient returns generated using the bond funds. The five-year 13 per cent mid-term note was issued in July 2014 through the Nairobi Securities Exchange to fund local and regional expansion, property development and IT enabled business transformation. The bond attracted 796 applications, raising Sh7.4 billion, and 147 per cent over subscribed. It attracted an annual Sh780 million interest. Part of the raised funds were used in increasing their investment in Housing Finance Group where they own 48.4 per cent shares. The firm also owns shares in Equity Bank. A portion of it was also used in expanding to seven counties and growing its asset and property business management in Tanzania, Malawi, Mozambique, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan. The firm is banking on completion of Kilimani serviced apartments, and its portfolio of land bank for future developments. Wairegi said they will not shy away from going to the market with another bond if need arose. “Cash flow right now is very good, but we also have a number of projects lined up. We will consider going back to the market for more funds in future in case there is need,” he said. He urged the note holders to invest the returned funds into Britam’s investment products or utilise them in purchasing Britam shares at the NSE for future dividends and capital gains. The firm’s shareholder funds rose 27 per cent to Sh28.6 billion in the six months to June 2018 amounting to an extra Sh9.6 billion during the period In the half year ending June 2018, the group reported a 1.4 per cent drop in net profit to Sh981.02 million from Sh995.08 million.