For Nakumatt to ply their trade in next season’s SportPesa Premier League, they will have to undergo a tense two-legged play-off most probably against Nairobi Stima, who are currently third on the National Super League standings. Nakumatt, despite a late rally in the second half of the season, finished third from bottom on the log, with Wazito and Thika United already releagted heading into the last day of the league. Melis Medo’s side lost 2-0 to Vihiga United at Ruaraka Stadium to finish 16th on the log with 37 points. Vihiga were also staring at the playoff but will have Amos Kigadi and Isabwa Mike to thank as their first half goals bailed them and hence finished 12th with 41 points. Nzoia Sugar confirmed their place in next season’s top flight football with a comfortable 2-0 over AFC Leopards at Kenyatta Stadium Machakos. First half goals from Kevin Juma and Hansel Ochieng catapulted Nicholas Muyoti’s charges to 13th with 41 points. Posta Rangers survived the playoff after playing Kakamega Homeboyz to a barren draw at Mumias Sports Complex. The one point saw them leapfrog Nakumatt to 15th. Similarly, Chemelil Sugar can afford a sigh of relief after coming from a goal down to hold Kariobangi Sharks to a one-all draw at Camp Toyoyo. The point steered the millers to 14th with 39 points. The match saw Erick Kapaito seal the season’s golden boot as his opener moved his tally to 16, one ahead of Jacques Tuyisenge and Elvis Rupia. The match was marred by controversy as fans clashed inside the stadium before Police fired in the air to disperse them. Champions Gor Mahia finished on a losing note as they succumbed 1-0 to Tusker at Thika Stadium. The brewers got their goal in the 10th minute through John Kamau’s freekick. At the Green Stadium in Kericho, Zoo FC and Sofapaka played to a barren draw while Sony produced a convincing 3-0 win over relegated Wazito at Awendo. Tanzanian international Castoro Mutambara headed in the millers opener a minute to the break. Derrick Otanga got the second for the hosts minutes into the second half while Enoch Agwanda sealed the rout. Mathare United played Ulinzi Stars to a one-all draw at Kasarani while Bandari handed Thika United a rude farewell with a 5-1 beating at Mbaraki Stadium.