ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has warned politicians against using the proposed referendum to push for individual interests. He urged the proponents of the referendum —­ President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga — to be sensible and allow Kenyans to own the reform process. “We must avoid restricting ownership of debate to a small segment of the political elite who want to placate us with amendments of the kind Kenya experienced in 1965, 1966 and 1982 ....[These included] abolishing devolved government and the Senate, or expanding an already bloated Executive,” Mudavadi said in an advert published in the Star on Monday. He said the law should be amended to protect the interests of the current and future generations. “The moment and the process cannot be fenced in by a small elite cabal that is engaged in a divisive jungle-style political popularity contest,” Mudavadi said. The ANC leader said a part of “this domineering self-styled and self-focused elitist class” is saying there will be a referendum, whether people like it or not. He said the elite and the political establishments have compromised the implementation of the Constitution to favour their interests. Mudavadi said electoral injustice, corruption, tribalism and incompetence can be addressed if those in power implement Chapter Six of the Constitution on integrity. “Over the past eight years, those charged with implementing the Constitution have done so only hesitantly. Sometimes they have been outright unwilling to implement it — and at other times gone flat out to frustrate it,” he said. The ANC leader wants more resources channeled to devolution. He said the Constitution holds the promise of a better life for everyone, entrenched in the essential values of human rights, equality, freedom, democracy, social justice and the rule of law. Mudavadi wants the electoral process respected by the IEBC and those in power. “What do we do about the IEBC? here is the perfect case of the referee also being a player,” he said. Mudavadi said Kenyans have the final say to choose if they want a presidential or a parliamentary system of government. He wants the budget expenditure of the Executive, Parliament and county assembly looked into. Mudavadi also wants the law strengthened to empower Kenyans to recall elected leaders who fail to perform. He wants the marginalised populations be brought on board, beyond tokenism.