Tears flowed freely as football players, coaches and stakeholders gathered at Tsagwa in Kaloleni constituency to send off former Kenya Premier League side Thika United FC captain Dennis "Yori" Lewa. Lewa died on October 10, in the grisly bus crash that killed 56 people at Fort Tenan in Kericho county. Current and former Thika United, Bandari FC, AFC Leopards, Mathare United, Coast Stima, Modern Coast Rangers players and coaches attended the burial of the multi-talented Lewa. Thika United coach Gabriel Njoroge Kingi described Lewa as humble and a role model. "Players used to look up to him for advice and inspiration especially during the hard times," Njoroge said. Bandari FC team manager Wilson Obungu said teams and football administrators need to value players more. "In other countries, players are given air tickets to travel. We need to do the same. It was not right for Yori to use such means of transport," said Obungu. Ironically, Lewa died on his 28th birthday. More on this: Ex-Thika United captain Dennis Lewa among 56 killed in Fort Ternan crash AFC Leopards Coast branch chair Gilbert Andugu said all Kenyan professional players must be treated with the respect they deserve. "Let us not take players for granted. Let us value them. This should be a lesson," said Andugu. Yori died on his way to Kakamega to start training after putting pen to paper with Kakamega-based Kenya Premier League side Kakamega Homeboys. "Our Shujaa is Dennis," said Andugu as York's body was laid to rest on Mashujaa Day. National Super League side Coast Stima captain Benedict Meso said Yori's versatility made him a favourite of many coaches. "It is painful to lose such a player," said Meso. National Super League side Modern Coast Rangers coach Abdulnassir Kassim said Yori had the quality of a leader. "That is why he was easily made captain wherever he went," said Kassim,who represented Kakamega Homeboys team manager Bonny Imbuza and other KPL coaches. Kaloleni MP Paul Katana who was in attendance said football administrators in the country need to rethink how they handle players. "Football is a multi-billion dollar industry. Players are core cogs in the industry and they should be valued more than they are here in Kenya," said Katana. Yori has left behind a wife Magdalene Mutua and son Patrick Lewa. Click here for the latest political news