Five years in a row, Diani Beach in the Kenya’s South Coast has been named Africa’s Leading Beach Destination at the World Travel Awards. The Kenyan South Coast is steadily becoming tourists’ destination of choice, beating Cape Town of South Africa, Sharm El Sheikh of Egypt and Zanzibar of Tanzania. On October 7, during the World Travel Awards Gala at Durban International Convention Centre (Durban ICC) in South Africa, Kenya as a country won in 14 out of the 66 categories in Africa’s Leading Brands. World Travel Awards was established in 1993 to acknowledge, reward and celebrate excellence across all sectors of the tourism industry, and today the WTA brand is recognised globally as the ultimate hallmark of quality, with winners setting the benchmark to which all others aspire. Diani Beach, which is about 17km long from the Kongo River to the north and Galu Beach to the south, was named Africa’s Leading Beach Destination in this year’s WTA Gala in South Africa. The destination has been the defending champion five times in a row, since 2014 to date. Before then, Sharm El Sheikh in Egypt won the award in 2010 and 2011, Cape Town South Africa won in 2012 and Zanzibar in Tanzania in 2013. Two hotels located along the shores of Diani Beach — Leopard Beach Hotel and Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa — were awarded Africa’s Leading Family Resort and Africa’s Leading Beach Resort respectively. Far North, in Lamu county, Manda Bay was named Africa’s Leading Private Island Resort. However, what is coming out clearly is the competition at the Kenyan South Coast, which is now leading as the region with the most five-star and four-star rated hotels at the Coast. Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa has been awarded three times in the World Travel Awards. It first bagged the award in 2010, then in 2015 and now in 2018. In an interview with Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa managing director Bobby Kamani, he narrates to the Star what has been the secret behind the exemplary performance of the hotel in the international spheres. At first, Kamani said as the Diani Reef family, they are ecstatic to have been chosen as the winners of Africa’s Leading Beach Resort 2018. “We are grateful that our efforts in upgrading our product as well as enhancing our service levels have been recognised by clients who have voted for us. Our sincere thanks to our voters for believing in us. We look forward to welcoming you back to your home in Diani,” Kamani says. According to him, Diani Reef, a heritage hotel, has made significant improvement in the product, and invested considerable time, effort and resources into training its incredible team members. “In addition, a state-of-the-art conference facility, which is the largest in the entire Coast, has also been an added benefit to conference delegates visiting the region,” he says. The magnificent 143-room hotel facility, which sits on a 40-acre property, is the only facility with two Presidential Suites, two Penthouse Suites and 20 Junior Suites, explains Kamani. “We have another wing where we shall be adding 100 more suites in the next year,” he says. The hotel is a heritage property that was taken over by the existing ownership and management in 2001. They have since spent considerable time, effort and resources in improving the product quality. “We focus on experiential travel memories for our guests, as opposed to run-of-the-mill offerings that other hoteliers may provide. We have an increased focus on sustainable and responsible tourism,” he continues narrating to the Star. For the past one year, the facility has experienced between 80-85 bed occupancy, even during the low season, Kamani says, adding that conferenced tourism and domestic tourists have played a significant role in ensuring the numbers are good all year round. “We have positioned ourselves as affordable luxury. We have introduced very attractive packages for our clientele for the festive period and have a very busy Christmas and New Year period ahead,” he says. The facility has one of the largest and modern state-of-the-art conference facilities in the Coast region, with a capacity of up to 1,000 delegates. The conference facility is a popular choice for government and parastatal institutions. After from winning the Africa’s Leading Beach Resort award, Diani Reef Beach Resort and Spa is now focusing to be awarded the Africa’s Leading Responsible Hotel / Eco Hotel in the future, because it has been supporting the Colobus Conservation Trust, the Diani Turtle Watch and the Diani Children’s Village. “We shall be happy when we win this award because we will be recognised as a hotel that is making a difference in conserving wildlife, the environment and empowering the local community,” he says. Apart from the hotels in the region, the government infrastructural projects that are coming up will definitely open up the entire Kwale county region, becoming a World Tourist Destination of Choice. Mega projects that are in pipeline include Phase II of the Dongo Kundu by-pass, the Likoni Bridge and Cable Car Project and lastly the Expansion of the Ukunda Airstrip. Three weeks ago, Deputy President William Ruto was at the South Coast to open a new school, which was built by the Kenya Airports Authority to replace a school sitting on the Ukunda Airstrip land, hampering its expansion. KAA, in its expansion plan of the Ukunda Airstrip, was forced to relocate the Mkwakwani Primary School to another area. The authority on its website says the intention to extend Ukunda Airstrip runway will allow access to larger aircraft, and it is therefore expected that it can then offer services to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi, as well as international flights to Zanzibar, Arusha and Dar es Salaam. At the Coast, tourism stakeholders immediately welcomed the government decision to expand Ukunda Airstrip to allow landing of bigger air planes. Kenya Tourists’ Federation chair Mohamed Hersi says in the past two years, Ukunda Airstrip has been busier than Malindi Airport. “We are delighted that Kenya Airports Authority and the government of Kenya heard our pleas, and officially the school that was sitting on airport land has been moved. A new ultra-modern school has been set up, paving the way to turn Ukunda and now Diani Airport into a modern airport with a radar and night landing,” Hersi says. He says Jambo Jet and Fly 540 started flights to Diani two years ago, and Silverstone then followed suit. Others that fly to Ukunda from Wilson are: SafariLink, AirKenya Express and Fly-Sax Airlines. “Jambojet in 2017 transported close to 125,000 passengers to Diani, and with Silverstone coming in strong, we believe we should hit the 200,000-plus passengers,” Hersi says. Kamani says as hoteliers with facilities in the region, they have collectively been lobbying for expansion of Ukunda Airstrip and they are confident the region will now fully explore its investment potential. “We hope to see international flights and larger domestic carriers coming into Diani in the very near future once the expansion of the Ukunda Airstrip is complete,” says Kamani. On the completion of the second phase of the Dongo Kundu by-pass, which will be connecting west of Mombasa to the South Coast, hoteliers in the region say this will reduce the time spent to cross the Likoni Ferry Crossing channel. Also, the much-awaited bridge across the Likoni crossing channel will help ease the traffic congestion that is mainly experienced at the Likoni ferry. Tourists from South Coast going to catch a plane at Moi International Airport in Mombasa are sometimes forced to miss their flights because of the heavy traffic snarl-ups at the crossing channel. Once the connecting bridge is built, it will be game-changer, connecting Mombasa to South Coast and Tanzania, according to the hoteliers in the region.