Narok Senator Ledama ole Kina on Monday appeared before the county security committee over claims of inciting tribal clashes in Mau forest. He was summoned to record statements by the team led by Narok county commissioner George Natembeya and intelligence officers. This followed allegations he caused inter-ethnic clashes in Olposimoru and Nkoben areas. Related: Nine arrested as Narok clashes probe narrowed to financiers Ledama refuted claims that he fueled the recent clashes by inciting the Maasai community against the Kipsigis tribe. He instead blamed a section of Rift Valley leaders who frequently visit the area for causing the violence witnessed in the said areas. The legislator also dismissed a widely circulated video clip on the incitement claims saying it was malicious and meant to benefit certain individual's interests. The senator reiterated that he would not be silenced in fighting for the rights of the Maasai community. He also maintained that those who have encroached Mau forest should be removed because the water catchment benefits millions of people. On his part, Natembeya said the Senator was summoned because of the video but added that most of the issues had been clarified. "Ledama clarified most of the issues and we have agreed on the way forward. We urge residents to promote peace," Natembeya said. He was accompanied by Narok police commandant Thomas Ngeiwa, Narok DCI boss Zachary Kariuki, and Narok ecosystem conservator Mwai Murungaru. Ledama has been under fire from six Rift Valley MPs, among them Joshua Kutuny (Cherengany), Hilary Kosgei (Kipkelion West), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Dominic Koskei (Sotik), Brighton Yegon (Konoin), and Sammy Serona (Nominated), who accused him of inciting the Maasai against the Kipsigis. The MPs claimed the senator at a rally in Nkareta threatened to take unspecified action if non-indigenous people do not leave Mau. Read: Narok clashes: Six Rift Valley MPs want Senator Ledama, MP Kenta arrested Also read: Narok politicians under probe as cops contain ethnic clashes Click here for the latest political news