Fish catch in Lake Naivasha has dropped by over 40 percent with the use of the banned filament nets been blamed for the crisis. It has emerged that licensed and illegal fishermen are using the net which is similar to mosquito nets to fish a move that spells doom for the lake according to the fisheries department. The drop has also been attributed to the rise in water levels, cold weather pattern and over fishing mainly from illegal fishermen whose numbers are on the rise. According to Naivasha sub-county fisheries officer Raymond Mwangata, production of the popular Tilapia species had dropped drastically while that of Common Carp had risen sharply. He said that as of January, fishermen managed to capture a total of 155,618Kg of fish valued at Sh36.5m but in September fish catch stood at 171,136kg worth Sh13.3m. Mwangata noted that Tilapia catch which is more expensive that Common carp dropped and hence the increase in production but a decrease in the earnings. “Tilapia production dropped from 82,377kgs in January to 57,614kgs in September and this was due to overfishing, rise in water levels and the cold weather,” he said. Speaking in his office, the senior officer expressed his concern over the use of the filament nets in the lake noting that this spelt doom for the lake. “We have managed to recover over 3,700 illegal nets from January to date and we are working closely with KWS officers in addressing the issue of illegal fishing,” he said. Mwangata attributed the current crisis in the lake to high unemployment rates around various settlements in Naivasha with fishing been the easiest source of food for many families. “Tens of flower farm workers who have lost their jobs are turning into the lake, demand for fish is also high and currently there is too much pressure on this water body,” he said. On his part, the chairman Lake Naivasha Boat Owners association David Kilo noted that illegal fishermen were harvesting more and bigger fish that the licensed fishermen. Kilo noted that the only solution in addressing the current crisis in the lake lay in re-introducing the annual three month fish ban. “Illegal fishermen are openly harvesting fish in breeding zones and that is why the production of the popular tilapia species has gone down in the last one year,” he said.  