A 33-year-old mother of six is nursing serious injuries on her legs and right hand following an alleged brutal panga attack by her husband. Sarah Wangari from Mung’etho village in Ndaragwa on Thursday said her husband, Josphat Kiongo, attacked her on October 4. She was at a home where she is employed to take care of livestock and two children aged four and 14. Wangari said since she married Kiongo more 14 years ago, she has never known peace. Hardly a day passes without Kiongo battering her. “Sometimes he plucks my hair or he burns all my clothes and threatens to kill me. When I flee with the children, he follows us and causes trouble wherever we go," she said Wangari accused her husband of infidelity. If she complains, she is beaten and thrown out in the cold. Wangari said she has never ended the marriage because of the children. She said at one time he threw a panga at her and injured her left shoulder. In the latest attack, Wangari said Kiongo rode his motorbike to her place of work and sent one of their children to call her. When she got outside the gate, she saw her husband with a panga. “I turned back, but it was too late. He cut me on the leg, then pushed me to the ground. He aimed my neck, but I blocked the panga with my right hand," she said Residents came to Wangari's rescue. They took her to Mairo Inya police station and called her younger sister, Rahab Wambui, who took her to Nyahururu Referral Hospital. Kiongo followed them to the hospital, which is a few metres from Nyahururu police station. Police were notified and he was arrested. Wambui said her sister recorded a statement at Mairo Inya police post. On Friday, they were told the suspect will be taken to court on Monday, but they later learnt he had been released under unclear circumstances. Wambui is now hosting her sister and her six children in her single room in Mairo Inya town. She has one child of her own. Wangari is totally depended on her sister and well-wishers who are assisting them. “My greatest fear is the suspect is still threatening us. If something is not done, he might come and kill us," she said She said the suspect burnt the children's clothes. ”The children stay naked when I wash their clothes. They all crowd on the floor when it is time to sleep”, Wambui said The county assembly women MCAs' caucus chairperson, Milka Wanjiru, visited Wangari on Thursday. She said it is unfortunate that Kiongo continues to do business at Mairo Inya market as if nothing has happened. She said it is even more troubling that he threatens his wife and the people assisting her. “My prayer is that the relevant authorities take action before it is too late," she said Wanjiru said cases of domestic violence are on the rise in Nyandarua, but most victims keep silent. Nyandarua North police boss Timon Odingo told the Star on the phone yesterday Kiongo in not off the hook. Odingo said the suspect will be arrested and taken to court after a P3 Form is filled once Wangari is healed. The police boss said Kiongo was released on cash bail as investigations continue. “The problem with Kenyans is they want instant justice," he said. Click here for the latest political news  