The family of former Garissa Finance CEC Idriss Mukhtar on Wednesday rejected a probation report on two suspects charged with his attempted murder. Lawyer Charles Kanjama said key material that should guide the court in determining Mohamud Aden and Juliet Njoki's application to be released on bail was left out. Aden and Njoki are charged with attempting to kill Mukhtar on August 19 on Kandara Road in Kileleshwa, Nairobi. They are also accused of conspiring to kill Kanjama between July 1 and September 27. They have denied the charges. The two had been granted bail and bond by chief magistrate Francis Andayi on September 21. However, Mukhtar's lawyer Lynn Owano successfully petitioned the High Court to set the bail terms aside until a supplementary pre-bail report is tabled in court. Justice Grace Ngenye directed the comprehensive probation report be tabled in two weeks. But Kanjama said the report left out "serious material" that is critical for the court to consider in deciding the matter afresh. More on this read: How I was hired to kill Idriss Mukhtar - David Mwai Also read: Garissa governor Ali Korane arrested over finance executive's shooting He said the suspects should remain in custody until key witnesses testify. But the suspects' lawyer Githinji Mwangi said there are no compelling reasons to deny them bond. Mwangi said Aden has been doing business in Machakos for the last 13 years where he has lived with his wife. He also said that Aden was properly discharged from the Kenya Defence Forces. The report indicated that the suspects are alleged to be in an intimate relationship, but there is no supportive evidence. State counsel Catherine Mwaniki said further investigations are needed. The pre-bail report states that the caregiver of Njoki's children is her mother, however, area assistant chief could not vouch for Njoki, although he is conversant with her family. The report also indicated that there is no inter-clan tension in Garissa as earlier indicated, but that the probation officers only visited Aden's ancestral home and did not visit Mukhtar's. Kanjama said the probation officers failed to get an assessment of the suspects' security from police considering that their accomplice [David Mwai] died mysteriously while in police custody. Kanjama s opposed the suspects' release on bond. The magistrate will rule on the application on Friday. Mukthtar was taken to India for specialised treatment. Click here for the latest political news.