The Law Society of Kenya says the Judiciary Registry, clerks and some law firms are behind the embezzlement of funds at the Milimani law courts. It wants the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the Director of Public Prosecutions and other state agencies to speed up investigations and ensure those involved are punished. In a statement, LSK president Allen Gichuhi said well-organised plan led to looting of funds from the court. “The LSK is alarmed by these corruption allegations and we call upon our members and the public to remain calm as we wait for the DPP to probe the allegations. Our investigations clearly point to some law firms working in collusion with the Judiciary clerks among other individuals who are behind this,” he said. Gichuhi said, however, those investigating should not victimise the LSK members. He urged DPP Noordin Haji to take the matter as urgent as it is the only way of assisting Kenyans. Read: LSK seeks DCI probe into fraud claims against lawyers, court registry staff A few months ago, Haji instructed the EACC and the DCI to begin investigations into the suspected fraud of Sh500 million at the Milimani law courts. The investigations was to target misappropriation of revenue and tax collected at the courts, additional costs used to refurbish the courtrooms, unlawful extension of medical insurance cover for judicial officers and an unapproved contract for providing security guards. In August, the DCI was probing the possible loss of more than Sh36 million at the Milimani law courts.An internal audit covering January 2016 and December 2017 exposed suspected misuse of funds. A report by the Judiciary Directorate of Audit and Risk Management flagged multiple questionable transactions. Chief Registrar Ann Amadi had written to the DCI to investigate the matter. “The report reveals a substantial amount of revenue was lost through fraudulent schemes. We are requesting your office to commence investigations and take action on those found culpable,” reads the letter. The Registrar stated that her office was ready to support investigators to ensure the culprits are brought to book. In response, the DCI asked for an appointment with the Registrar’s office to get documents related to the probe. Click here for the latest political news