Tax payers are incurring a Sh9 billion payment annually for non-functional medical equipment in county hospitals, Parliamentary Budget and Appropriations Committee was told yesterday. Commission on Revenue Allocation (CRA) chairperson Jane Kiringai revealed this when she appeared before the Kimani Ichung’wa led committee to defend the slashing of county budgets by Sh9.04 billion from initial Sh314 billion. In September, Treasury slashed Sh55.1 billion in both national and county government expenditure for the current financial year, in a bold move to reduce expenditure in the face of dwindling revenue. The supplementary budget saw the national government budget slashed from Sh3.026 trillion to Sh2.97 trillion while that of counties was chopped fromSh314 billion to Sh304.9 billion. CRA attributed the cut on fluctuations in revenue collection projection by National Treasury which was initially set at Sh1.7 trillion in June before being cut to Sh1.6 trillion in supplementary budget. The constitution provides a 15 per cent minimum equitable share of revenue for counties from the national government. On October 5, 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta signed the Division of Revenue Amendment Act to increase conditional allocations to the County Governments for the 2018/19 financial year to Sh376.481 billion The parliamentary budget committee also sought to know why the national government had increased  budget for  leased medical equipment to counties from Sh4.5 billion to Sh9 billion. Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto asked if Treasury consulted CRA before raising the budget to Sh200 million per county every year from initial Sh97.7 million. ‘’We acknowledge that this is an additional burden to counties. To make matters worse, some of the leased medical equipment is lying idle in some counties. We witnessed this in Isiolo, Siaya and Migori,’’ CRA chairperson Jane Kiringai said. She added that most counties lack specialists to operate machines leased yet they have to be paid for until end of lease period in 2022. The Sh38 billion medical equipment leasing plan launched in February 2015 was to meet the country’s need for accessible and affordable specialised healthcare. It came with the promise of bringing specialised healthcare services closer to the people. The equipment sent to up to 98 hospitals in the country includes; kidney dialysis machines, ultrasounds, facilities, intensive care units (ICU), incinerators, sterilising units and an assorted cancer treatment machines. The committee also picked issues with CRA for the government’s decision to slash equalisation fund to counties from Sg8.6 billion to Sh4.7 billion. Click here for the latest political news 