The government is planning to have top officials of the teachers union removed during the December delegates conference, secretary general Wilson Sossion claims. Sossion said the government wants to sponsor candidates to battle for top Kenya National Union of Teachers positions so that current officials are removed. “The plan is to destabilise the union because of the firm and unwavering stand we have taken to fight for the rights of teachers,” Sossion said on Saturday. He was speaking during the annual general meeting for Nandi North branch at Kabiyet Boys High School in Mosop. “We have lately been firm on the issue of promotions, delocalisation and performance appraisals and the government is definitely not happy with that. That is why they want us out so that they plant their own stooges to be in charge," he said. While Sossion's position is not among those to be filled during the Nairobi meeting, that of first and second vice chairman and deputy secretary general are vacant. Sossion told teachers that there will be no discrimination as all the regions will be taken care of in the sharing of top positions. Knut officials said they will not allow meddling in the polls. Read: Sossion furious over TSC move on degrees “All our 1,887 delegates should be wary of state sponsored candidates,” Sossion said. Sossion who is a nominated MP was with Mosop lawmaker Vincent Tuwei and acting first vice chairman Collin Oyuu and Knut branch officials from Rift Valley and Nyanza regions. Sossion asked the Teachers Service Commission to handle affairs of tutors with caution to avoid chaos in the education sector. “We have given the TSC our demands to address before we go for another round of talks to avert disruption during the national exams," he said. The union has threatened to call a strike if its grievances are not addressed. They want TSC to promote teachers and revoke the transfers of 85 head teachers holding union positions. See: Equip teachers first, Sossion tells government Click here for the latest political news