The proposed amendment of the 2010 Constitution has triggered mixed reactions in Kisii county with opinion divided along party lines. Deputy governor Joash Maangi opposed the call for a referendum saying it is ill-timed as the Constitution has only lasted seven years. “If there must be amendments in the Constitution, then those pushing for the same should point out specific areas and not a total overhaul,” Maangi told the Star in his office. He said the need for amendment of the Constitution should be driven by the people of Kenya as opposed to political leaders seeking to serve their own interest. “A lot is happening in the country under the leadership of President Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto. Devolution is working because the president supports it. We need to support his leadership,” Maangi said. However, Kisii woman representative Janet Ong’era backed calls for a referendum saying it is long overdue. “The supreme law must be changed to promote electoral fairness and transparency,” Ong’era said. “I fully support Raila Odinga’s call for a referendum because the changes will create a fair playing field for all in the electoral process,” she added. Ong’era said Kenyans will also be able to fix some longstanding ills that hurt development. Raila has indicated that the referendum would be held on the Constitution if the Building Bridges Initiative team recommends it. Bomachoge Chache MP Alfah Miruka supported calls for amendments but said it is too early to do so. Miruka said there should be amendments to have ministers appointed from parliament and not outsiders. “I support the amendments but not this time. Kenyans cannot afford to spend billions of shillings and yet they are repaying trillions of shillings borrowed from foreign countries like China,” Miruka said. “If there is need for the amendments then the changes should indicate that ministers be appointed from MPs and not outsiders as it is currently,” he added. Raila had cited the need to have a parliamentary system that was in the Bomas draft among other issues.  