Corporate firms should factor in new financial reporting standards from January in line with the implementation of IRFS 16. Stephen Obock, associate director audit, learning and development at KPMG Kenya said banks have started complying with the new standards, but other corporate organisations are yet to catch up. The IFRS 9 standard will provide for bad debts before loss is incurred, with estimates of losses expected to bring losses in future. “The institutions need to come up with models to cater for such situations before they occur. Companies have two months to prepare before end of year,” Obock said. Local financial institutions, mainly the banking sector, have already developed models that give provision for impairment losses. This could inform the reason banks have not reported high profits in the three quarterly reports this year, unlike in the past. Companies have not been making provisions for items such as government loans, which can take much longer to pay, an aspect that should be captured as an impairment when reporting. Companies also did not report inter-company loans because in the past, they waited for the loss to happen before factoring it in their books. Going forward, their credit policies must be aligned to the standards to account for the losses. Sales teams must, therefore, work with finance teams to factor in issues such as credit sales, to reach the target customers, and to make provisions of possible loss. A number of local companies with linkages to multinationals are so far applying the new reporting standards. The second, IFRS 16 reporting standards for leased items, including building structures and other business assets will going forward be booked in the company balance sheet, unlike in the past. An asset such as a rented building will need to reflect in the balance sheet, due to the right to use. The value of this right is expected to be factored in the books. “We expect more openness in the balance sheet, like when reporting assets such as building rents,” he said during training for accountants on the new reporting standard. The standard will ensure better leasing contracts, with lawyers expected to work with accountants to develop proper terminology, for meaningful lease contracts.