Athletics Kenya (AK) is set to deploy more than 130 technical officials to oversee this year’s Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon this Sunday. The federation’s Nairobi branch chairman, Barnabas Korir, said the event organisers are paying extra attention to the technical aspects of the city road race as they bid to have it promoted to the league of the world’s elite marathons. The marathon will start at the Railway Club with more than 20,000 elite and fun runners expected to take part. Korir said: “We will deploy more than 130 officials to man this year’s race as we work to see it match the standards of major world’s elite marathons. Our officials who are highly trained and will ensure that the results are well captured and will provide technical assistance to the race organisers for a smooth flow of the races.” While adhering to the international safety provisions, Nairobi Traffic department released an elaborate road closure diversions schedule that will see traffic to and out of the city diverted to alternative roads between 4am and 2pm to pave way for the races. The affected roads include sections of Mombasa road, Uhuru Highway, Upper Hill and Forest Road while within the CBD, Kenyatta Avenue, Muindi Mbingu and sections of Haile Selasie and University Way will also be closed. “We do not expect a major disruption in the flow of traffic. We have carefully organised traffic diversions to ensure that Nairobi county residents have alternative routes to critical locations in the city including hospitals, churches and airports. We plead with motorists and pedestrians to cooperate to avoid hitches. ”said Geoffrey Njogu who serves as the deputy Traffic Commandant, Nairobi County. The event organisers announced a few changes to the route for the six-race categories largely due to relocation of the start and finish points which have been moved to Uhuru Park. According to the Local Organizing Committee chairman, Peter Gitau, this year’s edition seeks to raise at least Sh60 million in support of the ‘Seeing is Believing’ initiative. Gitau disclosed that 18 000 athletes had registered for different races and remained confident of receiving more entrants before Sunday. “This year, we have noticed heightened interest from the elite and fun runners. So far, we have registered close to 18,000 participants and we are optimistic of reaching our target. We have a good mix of elite and budding athletes plus an unprecedented entry of past winners all eyeing the ksh 8million prize purse.”