I’m sitting alone in a hotel room minus Rob, and I text
him. I’ve left it as late as possible so the guilt can sink in. Me: You make me
pay for all this and you don’t show up? You’re special. Well done. He responds immediately: You should know what role you
play in my silence. I don’t respond because I don’t want to fight. Me: So you ignore me and it’s my fault? You don’t show up
today and that’s also my fault? When will you ever take responsibility for your
own shortcomings? He doesn’t respond. After a couple hours, I weigh my
options. This is a test of wills. It’s about which of us will say to the other,
let’s talk this over in person. He’ll join me; we’ll have it out and have mind-blowing
makeup sex. But I can’t do it. I open the balcony door and take in
the view. Then I make a decision. I’ve understood something about myself today.
I have self-love. Buckets and buckets of it. This is not about pride. It’s
about this man. Is he really worth it? How much shit do I have to put up with
for good sex? I pick up my phone and text someone else and ask him if
he’s free to come over. I’ve known him for years. He’s one of those guys that I
could have shagged over the years but the stars were never aligned. Either he
was in a relationship, or I was. We would flirt but nothing serious. Now, I
wanted him. But it was really late and a long shot but who knows, he might be
out and about. He responds: “Sounds like a plan but I’m in bed with my kids and I
can’t get out of the house. But remain sweet.” Crap. There’s no one else I want to sleep with. I run a
bath and soak for hours and then I get out and pick up my phone for the last
time that night. I text Rob. “This is over. I know when a guy is into me and you’re
not. Find someone who makes you happy and that you make time for. Peace. Please
send back the bike as soon as you can.” I hit the send button. The soundtrack and beats of a
Queen song come to mind … Another one
bites the dust. Bye bye to the good wood. I crawl into bed, half hoping
that Rob comes over, wakes me up, apologises and says he can’t let me go. I can hope but I know deep down he’ll never come. Not
necessarily because he doesn’t care but because he would never risk rejection.
I sleep very well and the next morning, I have a sumptuous breakfast. I’m glad
I ended it. This is an awesome place to be and I was gifting it to someone who
could not be bothered to respond to a text message. Screw him and his
mutha-freaking mama. You raised a punk for a son, madam. I head home after a late check-out. The next week is good
for me, drowning myself in work. I actually don’t even have time to think about
Rob. He didn’t respond to my dumping text message, and more importantly, on how
and when I’m getting the exercise bike back. He’s crazy as hell if he thinks
I’m going to let him keep it. This guy is an odd one. He displays pride when it comes
to some things — like not apologising when he’s clearly in the wrong — and on
other stuff, he doesn’t. Why keep the bike? Should he not have sent it back
immediately I dumped his ass?