There was a standoff in Machakos town after MCAs clashed with Governor Alfred Mutua’s supporters during demonstrations on Wednesday. The over 30 MCAs opposed to the county’s executive were attacked by  Mutua’s supporters outside the governor’s  offices entrance. The two groups clashed as Mutua accused a section of the Wiper MCAs of trying to undermine and distabalise his government. The MCAs were demonstrating over what what they described as skewed development. But Mutua, in a statement released by director of communication Mutinda Mwanzia, said the MCAs were “working for their personal known internal and external masters to undermine the democratically elected government”. The governor called on the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission to investigate the MCAs. Outside the governor’s office, the two groups clashed in a confrontation that prematurely ended the MCAs procession to the governor’s office. Led by county assembly deputy speaker Paul Museku and Majority leader Mark Muendo, the MCAs and some residents staged demonstrations starting at Mulu Mutisya Gardens in Machakos town. They wore branded T-shirts and carried placards with several messages indicating their dissatisfaction with the county leadership. Their attempts to gain entry into the governor’s office compound were fruitless due to the confrontation. A contingent of armed police officers dispersed the two groups. The MCAs said the demonstrations were against the governor’s bad leadership. Supplementary Budget They threatened to take undisclosed action against the governor within 14 days. “In 2017-18 budget, Sh2.7 billion was allocated. We want Mutua to explain development projects he implemented with the money,” Museku said. He said the governor should account for money set aside for bursaries, health, water and roads. Museku and Mwendo were denied access into the offices as they attempted to present their written petition to Mutua. The document was grabbed from Museku’s hand by one of Mutua’s supporters. The MCAs retreated to the county assembly after the confrontation while Mutua’s supporters remained at the governor’s office entrance chanting pro-Mutua songs. Mutua, through his director of communication, said the MCAs were not doing their duties. He alleged the allocation in the supplementary budget of close to Sh1.4 billion was not spent during the last financial year, denying students money for bursaries. He said the MCAs have been sitting on the budget for two months. The governor further complained that the MCAs deliberately refuse to attend meetings convened by his office to discuss development and other county matters. “They refused to attend recent meetings convened to discuss universal health care as well as the country roads programme. It is not too difficult to see through their evil scheme,” Mutua said. Machakos residents have raised concern over the protracted war between the governor and MCAs that is affecting service delivery. The residents spoke during Mutua’s meet the people tour early this month.