Our passion for food —
beyond the need of it for our very survival — is engrained deeply in cultural practices and national identities around the world. The Americans are perhaps
stereotypically renowned for wanting their food fast and lots of it, the
Italians for pizza and pasta, the Chinese for rice and noodles, while the
French are famous for their à la carte cuisine. To quench our thirst one could
also add coffee from Ethiopia. Think also of the classic
candle-lit dinner for two, the business lunch or, as my Kenyan colleagues might
say, a plate full of ugali and nyama choma to enjoy with friends and family. Or what about our desire for
fast food which is also driven by our hectic lifestyles and demand for instant
gratification? In the US alone in 2016 there were more than 186,000 quick service restaurants
and the revenue of McDonald’s worldwide is more than 24.6 billion US dollars. But a recently-published
report from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ‘2018: The state
of food security and nutrition in the world’ paints a worrying picture with hunger rising to
nearly 821 million people in 2017 – up 17 million from the previous year. Not only that there are
contrasting statistics which are deeply concerning. On one hand a staggering 45 percent of infant deaths are related to
undernutrition (mostly in the
developing world) while on the other hand 1.9 billion people are overweight and adult obesity is
rising at a quickening pace (mainly
in the developed world). By all accounts, the hunger situation
is worsening in South America and most regions of Africa. We all should be
worried that the issue is not diminishing. However, I am confident that
in partnership we can achieve zero hunger by 2030. I believe it is possible. We
can help farmers produce more with less, reduce food waste and adopt more
healthy and sustainable diets. I’ll be representing CABI’s
interests in Beijing, China, as part of our regional consultation with member
countries in the Asia-Pacific region – of which China is one. As part of this
event we’ll update countries on CABI’s contribution towards the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – particularly SDG 2: ‘Zero Hunger’ – through our understanding and application in partnership of
agricultural science. I’ll be highlighting our
work around the world to combat invasive pests and weeds – such as the fall
armyworm which is already threatening
food security efforts in Africa and Asia. This includes the use of
innovative tools and projects that are literally ‘eyes in the sky’ to track the
pests and diseases which threaten global food security. I’m talking here of the
recently launched Pest Risk Information Service (PRISE) which, in partnership with the UK Space
Agency, uses satellite data to help farmers track and predict the spread of
pests in Zambia, Ghana and Kenya. Quite simply, with a growing
population expected to reach nine billion in 2050, farmers need to find new,
more productive ways, to farm food and diversify their crops. In a nutshell,
they need to produce more with less. The Global Action
Plan for Agricultural Diversification
exemplifies the need to not put ‘all our eggs in one basket’ when it comes to
the over reliance on four major crops (wheat, rice, maize and soybean) to feed
the world. We need to think ‘outside the box’ and cultivate a wider range of
crop species and agricultural systems that can link producers, consumers and
markets and that are resilient to the challenges of climate change. How about we also ‘turn the
tables’ a little on insects? Now, I’m not saying we should be eating invasive
pests but how about crickets, locusts, bees, ants and wasps?  Yes, bees, ants and wasps. We’re already using insects
for feed for animals, as demonstrated in CABI’s recent PROTEINSECT
project that explored the use of
nutritious fly larvae for animal feed, 
and in some cultures around the world humans eating insects is the norm
– think of the mupane worm in Zimbabwe or silk worms in Thailand. Okay you might not have an
appetite for insects in their purest form but there are companies starting to
integrate them, crickets for example, into more ‘presentable’ food stuffs
packed with protein. Have you tried cricket
pasta? I’m also thinking of that
great African proverb; ‘The forest not only hides man’s enemies but it’s full of
man’s medicine, healing power and food.’ The ‘fruits of the forest’ are
plentiful and include foods such as the cashew nut and mango. Maybe we need to utilise
the resources of forests a little more while, of course, protecting these
extremely important ecosystems. In addition, we need to
think about protecting all aspects of the food chain from field to the table
and that includes improving phytosanitary systems in countries. For example, CABI’s work in partnership to improve Ghana’s
phytosanitary systems means vegetable
exports worth $15 million a year are continuing once again after the lifting of
a Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety of the European Commission ban
imposed in 2015. But there are even bigger
issues than that if we’re to make the actual process of food production more
profitable for the millions of small-scale farmers and for economies at the
countries of origin where the fruit and vegetable crops are grown. Many African countries have
historically exported raw materials (and therefore jobs) to be processed
elsewhere – where in fact we need to see a shift whereby we add value to the
product at the point of origin. We need to create jobs
locally in the places where the food is produced, to process and pack and
distribute, to gain maximum profitability from the whole food chain rather than
segment it elsewhere for the benefit of others. Food security is a global
issue – that’s for sure. But for developing countries it’s a matter of life and
death. However, come 2030, I’m confident that we’ll have agricultural systems
that can feed the world despite the threats of pests and diseases not to
mention the challenges posed by conflict and climate change. Dr Rangi is the Director
General - Development at CABI.