Four frontier county assemblies could not account for more than Sh1 billion in the last financial year, an Auditor General’s report shows. Isiolo county assembly could not account for over Sh570 million, while Garissa could not explain expenditures totalling Sh215 million. At the same time Marsabit had unexplained expenditures of Sh166 million ands Sh61 million in expenses by Mandera assembly couldn’t be traced at the time of audit for the year ending June 30, 2017. Auditor General Edward Ouko in his July 16, 2018, report to the Senate said the county assemblies’ financial statements do not represent the accurate financial position of their performance and cash flows. The report noted that the counties’ spending violated the International Public Sector Accounting Standards, the County Government Act and the Public Finance Management Act. Garissa County Assembly could not give accurate and complete pending bills accounts. “The financial statements reflect pending bills payables of Sh21.5 million consisting of creditors and staff payables of Sh17.2 million and Sh3.7 million respectively. However no supporting documents such as contracts, local purchase/service orders, work completion certificates, invoices, delivery notes were provided for audit review,” Ouko said. The assembly has Sh14 million unsupported expenditure on hospitality, supplies and services, irregular and unaccounted office furniture and general equipment to a tune of Sh 9.4 million. Doubtful subsistence allowances close to Sh10 million. “Based on the audit procedures performed, I confirm that public money has not been applied lawfully and in an effective way,” Ouko said in his adverse opinion in relation to Isiolo county assembly. Though the assembly’s statements of receipts and payments show that the Isiolo assembly had acquired Sh224 million fixed assets. During the audit the fixed assets register showed only twenty-six laptops valued at Sh3.1 million which were issued to staff but of those 22 were unavailable during physical verification. Ownership documents of two vehicles were not provided for audit as well purchase of office equipment of Sh7 million were not reflected in budget, statements and receipt nor actual amounts. The audits also reveal that the Isiolo assembly paid Sh11.6 million on what it termed as wages to temporary staff however there are no documents on the identity of the casual workers, payment plans nor justification on why they were ‘hired’. Other Sh22.6 million compensation to employees could not be explained as there was no Integrated Payroll and Personnel database raising concern over possibility of double and ghost payments. The assembly is also indicted for unaccounted foreign travels and subsistence, irregular procurements among others. Marsabit assembly, on the other hand, is fingered for unexplained travel and subsistence expenditure valued at Sh90.9 million. The audit shows that Members of the County Assembly got irregular allowances for trips they were not invited or had no value. The assembly is faced with Sh10.9 million unsupported medical insurance cover spending, Sh20 million of questionable vouchers, local purchase orders and invoices of pending bills. “Comparison of budget and actual amounts reflected receipts totalling Sh506.7 million differs from the Sh506.9 reflected in the statement and receipts and payments by an unexplained and unreconciled Sh200. Further, the Assembly had spent Ksh 456.2 million out of Sh500 million of the recurrent budget. Sh 43.5 million revenue shortfall and Sh43.7 million under expenditure may have resulted in a denial of equivalent services to the county residents,” Ouko said. Mandera had Sh20 million of unaccounted ward fund expenses, Sh6 million unsupported training expenses, Sh23 million MCAs mileage claims that couldn’t be accounted Sh9 million for unaccounted travel and subsistence allowances. 