The fight against corruption should not be politicised, Deputy President William Ruto said yesterday. He said there are independent institutions that have been empowered financially and staff-wise to contain graft. He said some politicians are trying to hijack the successes on the graft war. “We have invested time, people and resources to enhance the capacities and capabilities of our independent constitutional institutions that combat wastage, mismanagement and theft in public institutions,” the Deputy President said. Ruto spoke during the opening of the Global Leadership Summit at the Christ Is The Answer Ministries, Valley Road, Nairobi. He spoke to more than 4,000 leaders who attended the summit. “The politicisation of investigations and prosecution by individuals who are neither witnesses, investigators, prosecutors nor judges, undermines the noble effort on the war on graft,” the DP said. He said despite criticism from some quarters, the government had made great strides in the war on corruption. Ruto said increased openness and transparency in government operations to combat wastage, mismanagement and theft in public institutions are some of the successes. “I believe that governments whose operations are open and transparent suffer less from corruption,” he said. Ruto said a steering committee had developed the second national action plan on ‘open government’ as a key mechanism in the anti-corruption toolbox. The plan led to the amendment to the companies’ laws that ushered in the publication of the beneficial ownership information on each company. Through this, he said, it is impossible to hide behind the corporate veil and execute corrupt practices. See: Keep politics out of war on corruption, Ruto tells leaders He urged leaders not to abuse powers bestowed upon them by engaging in activities that add no value to the people they serve. “Leadership comes with immense authority and power that can change families, communities and nations. But power and authority carries with it immense responsibility, without which, power is perverted, meaningless and dangerous,” Ruto said. He urged religious organisations to be on the frontline in not only preaching good stewardship but also stepping up, rolling their sleeves and joining in the task of developing excellent stewards wherever they are needed. Ruto said cases of failed societies, institutions and organisations were symptomatic of absent or failed stewardship. “The well-being of individuals, communities, families and the nation rises or falls on its leadership.It is leadership that creates ideas that are formulated into a manifes so that it is then translated into policies which, when implemented, transform a nation,” he told the Summit. Click here for the latest political news