The Fairmont Norfolk Hotel is a place to indulge with your family for a Sunday brunch. The glass walls and grill fence around the Lord Delamere Terrace have blocked off the street views. But the marble floors, round columns and white ceiling beams create a stylish look in a semi-outdoor setting. Music from a live band enlivens mood. The first thing you see when you walk in is the vitality bar of freshly squeezed juices. I chose a pineapple mint juice. You can also have a Bloody Mary, the quintessential brunch cocktail. With the main courses I switched to Sangria, a refreshing Spanish beverage made from white wine and fruit pieces. I started off with appetizers at the charcuterie station, which included a selection of ham, cold sausages, salami and polony accompanied by pickles and preserves. The cold station was impressive, with prawn cocktail, slipper lobster, clams, mussels and sliced salmon. The soup of the day was a creamy mushroom soup with your choice of home-baked breads and baguettes. The extensive brunch features cuisines from different countries. From the Mediterranean was Greek chicken gyro roasting on a rotating vertical spit, lemon pilaf rice, Greek salad and cheese pie in filo pastry. From Indian cuisine there was egg curry, minced meat stew, biriyani rice, naan bread and masala potatoes. At the pizza station you can choose your toppings and sauces. For meat lovers, the live cooking station had grilled chicken, leg of lamb with gravy and beef medallions. Vegetarians have good choices from the salad bar and various hot vegetable dishes at each station. If you want a breakfast item, you can ask for eggs cooked to order. The yoghurts, smoothies and fresh fruit provide healthy options. The dessert table was spread with different cakes, puddings and pastries. I chose to have freshly made crepes filled with raisins and white chocolate, and a side of vanilla ice cream. At the cheese board, I was particularly interested in the black Maasai cheese inspired by traditional fermented sheep’s milk preserved with charcoal. I wound up my meal with an espresso coffee.  LOCATION: Harry Thuku Road, Nairobi CONTACTS: 020 2265000  Star Rating: 4/5