Gilgil residents are living in fear after lions invaded their farms, killing two dairy cattle and injuring many others. After the latest attack on Monday night  in Nagum and Eburru villagers, residents are terrified. The region has been a hotspot for human-wildlife conflicts. Residents have warned Kenya Wildlife Service officers against getting complacent about controlling wildlife movement. Yesterday, they said the lions strayed from Lake Nakuru National Park. They expressed outrage at the losses caused over the years. In the past three years, the animals have killed more than 600 cattle and goats, a resident said. Over the same period, Delamere Farm in Soysambu has also borne the brunt of the lions. It has lost more than 450 head of cattle. Security manager Jeff Mito said they have lost 90 cattle to the lions this year. Farmer Simon Kareu appealed to  the KWS to act swiftly before the lions cause more trouble. The situation could get out of hand and human lives might be lost, he said. On Monday night, the animals overran their farms and roared as they killed the cattle. Kareu said they could not leave their homes for fear of being attacked. “The lions are straying from the national park and neighbouring game ranches. We hope KWS will act before they attack a human being,” Kareu said. Delamere security manager Mito said some lions had moved from the national park to the Soysambu Conservancy where they “turned our livestock into their evening meal”. He said there were  15 to 20 lions. But a junior KWS officer who sought anonymity said two or three lions were behind the Monday attack. Mito said they were concerned about the rising number of livestock killed. On several occasions, they had informed KWS officers but the animals kept coming back to their farm and neighbouring villages to wreak havoc, he said. Gilgil subcounty commissioner Ndambuki Mutheki said the animals had in the past killed livestock in Marula Farm and Kikopey Centre before moving to Eburru area. He told residents that the authorities would respond to protect their them and their livestock. “We’ve already engaged KWS to move in and trap these marauding lions. There’s every possibility that they could even go for schoolchildren,” he said. The KWS officer who spoke in confidence said they had identified the wild animals and were making plans to trap and return them to the national park. “We’ve received several complaints of wild animals, mainly lions, killing cattle. We’ve put measures in place to deal with them,” he said.