In 2015, world leaders agreed to 17 Global Goals for Sustainable Development to achieve a better world by 2030. Started by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Goalkeepers is a catalyst for action toward these goals — bringing together leaders from around the world to accelerate progress toward ending poverty and fighting inequality. In a teleconference, Star journalist John Muchangi recently joined Bill Gates for a conversation on health, when the Bill and Melinda Gates released its second annual Goalkeepers report. The Star: In last year's Goalkeepers report, you cautioned governments against reducing aid to the developing world. Has that changed? Also, can visits by officials and US First Lady Melania Trump help build awareness among elected officials? BILL GATES: Yeah, in terms of trips, absolutely. It’s fantastic when we can get as many people who are thinking about these issues or who can bring visibility to these issues to visit Africa. Recently, [German Chancellor] Angela Merkel, [UK PM] Theresa May, [French] President [Emmanuel] Macron have all been down in Africa. Whenever those trips are taking place, we do our best to make sure that some of the challenges and the progress get highlighted. Also, a lot of summers, Melinda or I go over to Africa and time it so we’re there when some US politicians, congressmen or senators are there. [South Carolina] Senator [Lindsey] Graham has led a lot of those trips, which have been really eye-opening for the people who get involved in that. It’s very important to go see these things. We wish even more people could do that. In terms of the overall funding level for foreign aid that you said was a theme in last year’s report, we still have a lot of concerns about that. In the United States, we are very thankful that the Congress has maintained these things are priorities, despite the executive branch recommending very substantial cuts. On quite a bipartisan basis, the US foreign aid giving was maintained. It’s also been maintained in the UK. It's gone up in Germany, so we're hoping to keep it at that level. France has made a commitment to keep going up. So overall, there isn't a big aggregate increase, but GAVI, Global Fund, a lot of the agricultural things and key agencies are getting about the same level of funding. And so, events like this are when we talk about how to spend that in such a way to have even more impact. What is the foundation doing to fill gaps left by the gag rule*, in terms of reproductive health services? And why hasn’t it considered funding abortion directly? [*A US government policy that blocks federal funding for NGOs that provide abortion counselling or referrals, advocate to decriminalise abortion or expand abortion services.] We’ve chosen to be super active in reproductive health, tools of contraception, but not to be involved in abortion. Some of the people we work with do that differently, but that's the position we’ve chosen to be in. The gag rule, which is also called the “Mexico City Rule”, is complicated, because this is the first time that any organisation that gets US money has to commit to that. They’re not involved in discussing or providing abortion. It was applied far more broadly this time than ever before, so it applied to people getting US money for HIV and malaria. You know, it’s actually not all that visible how much more difficult or what sort of impact that's had. You know, we certainly have said that we think the rule doesn't make sense, but it's very much in place, and people have adjusted to try to minimise the negative impact of that. So, our funding for innovation is new tools of contraception and getting the message out, and that includes both women who want to face their births and women who decide they don't want to have any more children, but all on a completely voluntary basis. You’re currently investing in health and education. What more will you be doing, and will there be a shift in strategy? Our primary focus will continue to be health, where we’ve built up a depth of expertise and partnerships around the big health challenges, including malaria, childhood death, delivery and nutrition. That’s where we have put our focus. We do have efforts, fairly small in comparison, in looking at some of the good work going on in education. Our main education work has been here in the US. We’ve developed some understanding of where technology like cell phones can come in and help out. So, you'll see us with a little bit more presence there, but nothing like what we do in health and agriculture and sanitation. There are other entities that are very focused in that area, including a lot of non-profits, even some for-profit people like Bridge, who have come in and tried to get there to be acceptance of the higher quality work that they do. In the report, you suggest shifting towards wanted births or fewer early births as a means to reduce population growth in Africa. Between increasing women’s economic benefits and increasing their access to contraception, which better helps them choose how many children to have? The biggest thing is the modern tools of contraception. There are implants, injections, IUD. And, obviously, if you have those things available, then people are more in control of being able to space their children. Also, although it's not a direct goal in our case, it also does reduce the amount of abortion if you have great access to these family planning tools. The US is the only country where the contraception issues become such that sometimes, the funding is more generous, and sometimes there are restrictions that are put on it. Likewise, there are some religious groups, including the Catholic Church, that take issue with contraception. So those things are somewhat of a headwind, as we're going out and saying, "Hey, every woman who wants to have access should have access, and let's improve these tools. Let's make them cheaper," which we've made a lot of progress on that. Let's make them easier to administer. [Like] the injection called Syana Press, which a woman can provide to herself. The US’s overall funding on reproductive health has stayed high. It actually is the biggest funder, even though the programmes have had controversy and a lot of discussion. So, you look at how are these contraceptive supplies getting out in Africa? The US, along with the European donors, are where most of those resources have come from. Whenever there’s an issue about money might getting cut off, where there's no clear way something would come in and substitute for that, then all you're doing is making it less. A woman less able to have her desired family size, which both at the local and broad level, we think is very, very unfortunate. Recent data about HIV drug dolutegravir shows it could be associated with serious birth defects. Could that lead the Gates Foundation to reassess its abortion stance? No. I wouldn't connect — there was a statistically interesting association with dolutegravir in the very early data, and as more data has been collected, that association has gone down pretty dramatically. So we'll have to look. The expert panels who look at these things are looking at it to determine: Should this particular HIV drug that has some huge benefits be applied when it's a woman taking it who might be pregnant? So, all the medical review stuff is going on with that. It was a small percentage, but enough that it looked like it was elevated. And then as the data has come in, it looks less elevated. But over the next year, all that will get evaluated and people will decide: Is this first-line therapy, just for people who aren't potentially pregnant to shift to this better drug, or does it make sense to shift everybody? But this is not connected. You would never choose a drug that was increasing the need for abortion. In Kenya, half of new HIV infections affect young people. What has the foundation seen that works in other countries that Kenya can emulate to avoid rolling back its gains against HIV? Yeah, the age profile of HIV infection, except at the very early stage of the epidemic, unfortunately, it really always has been hitting mostly youth. You know, what you see is the pattern that you have some older males that are sexually associating with younger females, and then it starts to spread in those age groups. So, already, by age 15, we see a significant number in girls. And then with the boys, it's like a three-year lag. But it's most intense in that 15- to 24-year-old period in terms of when the disease is acquired. And so, the key is to message to those kids what does safe practice look like? For some of the males, if they're not circumcised, which I think the Luo in Kenya is one area where this male circumcision effort has been going on to convince men to have that done, because it does reduce the amount of transmission quite substantially. It cuts it in more than half. So, there's a variety of programmes. And, you know, in parts of Kenya, there's been good progress. In other parts of Kenya, there has not been as good progress. So, the formula of getting — engaging in safe practice, getting yourself tested, if you're positive, getting on the drugs so you're not spreading it to other people. We do have cases, and in our report, we talk specifically about Zimbabwe as a place where these programmes have worked, where the message has gotten out and the numbers are coming down. And then we look at if we did the best job, how much further could they be driven down? But you know, it's all about behaviour and compliance, and how do you get those messages out to that generation?