Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has directed the County Public Service Board to confirm and promote all workers who have had temporary contracts for more than five years. In a statement, Director of Communications Elkana Jacob said the governor discovered that workers in various departments are yet to get permanent jobs. “During impromptu visits, H.E the Governor was shocked to learn that most of the staff hold positions in an acting capacity,” Elkana said. “Nevertheless, the governor has issued an executive order for them to be confirmed forthwith,” he added. In the Sonko administration, some slots, including the Deputy Governor’s post, have been vacant since the surprise resignation of Polycarp Igathe on January 12. The governor has since proposed some possible replacements but has never anyone to fill the position. Sonko's nomination of controversial lawyer Miguna Miguna was flatly rejected by the county assembly. The governor also took his sweet time before appointing chief officers in May, days after their approval by the county assembly. Read: Sonko finally appoints chief officers after outcry over crippled services More: City Hall services crippled after Sonko fails to appoint chief officers The appointments followed a public outcry after critical services at City Hall were grounded. It was also only until recently that Sonko appointed Leboo Moritant as the Deputy County Secretary. The September 28 appointment followed the suspension of Peter Kariuki on September 18. Kariuki was suspended alongside three other county officials over what Sonko termed as insubordination over the Pumwani Maternity Hospital infant deaths' saga. They are Health executive Vesca Kangogo, Health chief officer Mahat Jimale and County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka. The officers contradicted the governor over his decision to suspend top managers at the facility over alleged negligence after the bodies of 12 infants were found in polythene bags at the facility. Their positions are currently being held by executives from other dockets in acting capacities. Read: Pumwani saga: Sonko suspends Health executive, three officers for insubordination Click here for the latest political news