The increased ivory in China from Myanmar could soon deal African elephants a major blow, a report has shown. “Myanmar’s Growing Illegal Ivory Trade with China” report compiled by Save the Elephants and released yesterday at Nairobi’s Sarova Panafric Hotel showed the number of new ivory items for sale had grown exponentially. “The number of new ivory items for sale in towns grew by 63 per cent in three years, and now accounts for over a third of the ivory seen in the country,” Ivory trade specialist Lucy Vigne said. She compiled the report with Esmond Martin late last year. Martin, who had authored several investigative reports on rhino and ivory smuggling in Kenya and the trade in China, Vietnam, and Laos, was found murdered in his Karen home in Nairobi February 4. Vigne said Chinese visitors smuggled worked ivory from Mong La back home with little concern about getting caught. “This ivory has often come up the Mekong River into the lawless eastern periphery of Myanmar, where it is sold in retail and in bulk. The wholesale price for African raw ivory in late 2017 in the Golden Triangle region has remained stable at about $770 to $800 per kg since late 2015,”Vigne said. Kenya is major transit for illegal ivory. In 2015, three tonnes of Kenyan ivory worth Sh500 million were seized in Thailand. In what was an indication that poaching still goes on in Kenya unabated, reports indicated the 511 elephant tusks were shipped out of Kenya on March 24. They had been hidden in tea leaves. Read: China starts shutdown of ivory, rhino horn market In August this year, Ivory kingpin Feisal Mohammed was set free by a Mombasa court. He had been sentenced in 2016 after being found guilty of possessing Sh44 million ivory. However, Judge Dora Chepkwony quashed Feisal’s 20-year jail sentence, terming it unconstitutional.He had also been fined Sh20 million. Vigne said Myanmar has the largest captive, or ‘domestic’, elephant population in the world with over 5,000 individuals.Traders, according to the report, said internal ivory trade was legal for trimmed domestic elephants tusk tips and licensed animals that have died. Vigne said in their survey, they found ivory items on display in five towns and cities out of the eight visited, with 51 shops openly displaying 14,846 ivory items for sale. “The majority of items on display were recently made jewelry, with much smaller number of older larger items,” she said. Also Read: Kenya to pile pressure on nations opposed to the ban on ivory trade Click here for the latest political news