Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has said he will only support efforts to change the constitution if the idea is to ease the burden on Kenyans. In a Facebook post directed at Raila Odinga, the Kuria said he agrees with the Opposition leader's calls to repeal the supreme law but "these changes are about reducing the burden for Wanjiku." "It's about reducing elective and nominated positions not adding positions. It's not about adding the position of a Prime Minister or creating a parliamentary system. I hope you get this clearly," Kuria said. Raila has been gunning for a constitutional amendment since the 2017 August polls saying there are very fundamental issues that need to be addressed for the country to rid itself of perennial problems. Key among the issues the ODM leader has identified is the need to create an all-inclusive government. His argument is that Kenya is always divided every election year as poll losers are left with nothing by a 'winner-takes-it-all' system of governance. This he says, leaves the country divided as those not represented in government feel alienated. But opponents of the "change the Constitution" campaign have expressed fears that the creation of an all-inclusive government will lead to a bloated government and a huge wage bill. They claim that Raila is looking for re-introduction of a Prime Minister's post which he wants reserved for him courtesy of the March 9 handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Read: Oparanya backs Raila’s call for referendum, tells off local MPs Also read: Mutahi Ngunyi stirs KOT reaction after backing Raila's referendum calls But Kuria expressed reservations on the idea of holding the referendum before the forthcoming general election in 2022. His reasoning is that this will be coming too soon after a long electioneering period in 2017. "We lost the entire 2017 to political campaigns. We can not waste more time doing the same. We can't spend another Sh45 billion in a midterm referendum," Kuria said. "We will, therefore, conduct the Punguza Mzigo Referendum alongside the 2022 General Elections as the 7th ballot. Let us do this in a non-contentious way," he added. Kuria said he is willing to meet Third Way Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot and other pro-reform forces to lay a strategy for the 2022 "seventh ballot referendum". Aukot, like Kuria, is in support of constitutional repeal but only for purposes of reducing elective positions. Read: Ruto ally wants Senate, women reps, nominated MCAs scrapped Click here for the latest political news