President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday led Kenyans in mourning 50 people who lost their lives following a road accident at the Fort Ternan Tunnel in Kericho. Uhuru said on Twitter it is unfortunate that the country had lost its citizens in such an accident. "My heartfelt condolences to the families of fellow Kenyans who lost their lives in a tragic road accident at Fort Ternan in Kericho county this morning and wish those in hospital quick recovery," Uhuru said. "As authorities investigate the cause of the accident with a view of taking action, I would like to remind drivers to always exercise caution to avoid such catastrophic incident". Deputy President William Ruto said though the country is united in grief following the accident, it is high time for all the relevant authorities to ensure that safety on the roads is prioritised. Read: At least 42 dead in Fort Ternan bus crash "The nation is united in grief following the tragic road crash involving a bus at Fort Ternan, Kericho county. We condole with the affected families and wish a quick recovery to the injured. PSV companies must adhere to road safety rules; ensure their drivers are not fatigued and administer refresher driving courses to staff," Ruto said. Opposition leader Raila Odinga said it was unfortunate that such recklessness still exists on the roads. He said police should move swiftly and clamp down on saccos and drivers that have no regard for human life. "I send my deepest condolences to the friends and families who have lost their loved ones in the horrific accident that occurred at Fort Ternan. May the souls of all the departed rest in eternal peace. I appeal to police officers to arrest the return of madness on our roads," he said. Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa said, "It's a sad morning being awoken by disturbing news of the Western bound bus that has killed passengers at Fort Ternan". Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett has said police are looking for the owner of the bus. He said the ill-fated bus lacked a licence to operate at night and the owner and sacco officials will be charged for violating rules. Read: Death toll in Fort Ternan crash in Kericho climbs to 50 Click here for the latest political news