Kenyan architects have raised concerns that Tanzania has not liberalised the profession in the country, limiting Kenyan professionals from working in the market. The professional body of architects, Board of Registration of Architects and Quantity Surveyors of Kenya (BORAQS), said Tanzania’s failure to liberalise the services means that no Kenyan architect can offer professional services in the neighbouring country. Architects from Tanzania however freely operate in Kenya or in any other country within EAC under the Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA) signed in 2011. The agreement was signed between EAC member states under the Common Market Protocol that allowed accountants, engineers, architects and veterinarians to freely practice their profession in any of the member states. BORAQS on Thursday said Tanzania’s failure to liberalise the profession despite the country having signed the MRA is against the spirit of the agreement and the Common Market Agreement which guarantees free movement of goods, services and labour. Though Burundi and South Sudan have since joined Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda and Rwanda in the EAC, they are still lagging behind in terms of regulatory bodies in order to fully benefit from the MRA. Uganda and Rwanda have however fully liberalised the architectural services, meaning Kenyan architects can freely operate there under MRA. Presently, there are five Ugandan architects working in Kenya and four from Rwanda, while 10 Kenyan architects are working in Uganda and seven in Rwanda. “There must be mutual trust, mutual respect and the correct spirit,” said Waweru Gatheca, Boraqs board member. He was speaking on Thursday at Boraqs headquarters in Nairobi during a meeting with journalists from the six EAC member states. Tanzania has however liberalised engineering and accountancy services meaning Kenyan professionals can work there. Boraqs chairman Nathan Kureba said liberalisation of services by the other EAC member states has eased movement of the professionals and improved skills and quality of work being undertaken in host countries. He said the MRA needs to also recognise technicians who work hand in hand with the architects. In this category are diploma holders in architecture. “Technicians are among us, we can’t do without them,” he said. According to Engineering Board of Kenya CEO Nicholas Musuni, statistics released in June 2017 indicated that there were 12 engineers from EAC member states working in TZ under the MRA. Kenya had four engineers from the other EAC partners, same as Uganda while Rwanda had eight. He said the numbers have since gone up. Updated statistics will be released next month. He added that many local firms are not realising full benefits of the agreement as they are not well enlightened on it. East African Business Council chairman Nicholas Nesbitt during an interview in his his Nairobi office on Saturday said failure by some member states to liberalise some services sectors was hampering smooth implementation of the of the MRAs. He singled out Tanzania for not liberalising the architectural services.