Top national cricket team players are threatening to pull out of next month’s ICC World Cricket League Division Three tournament in Oman unless certain changes are made in the squad selected last week. Sources within the team said a number of senior players named in the squad have refused to hand over their passports for visa processing until the Interim Committee makes certain changes in the team. The committee had included three uncapped players and dropped Lucas Oluoch, Elijah Otieno and Eugene Maneno—a move that didn’t go down well with a number of players. According to sources, senior players feel that the Interim Committee is not giving the tournament the seriousness it requires. The players, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of being victimised, felt the squad was named based on malice and they are not ready to be part of that. “This team was not named on merit and we don’t understand why certain key players were dropped. We are not against any players being selected but the process must be free and fair,” claimed players. The Obuya siblings—David Obuya and Obuya—have been named to lead the squad to Oman as head coach and captain respectively. David, who is the CK Interim Committee’s secretary replaced Maurice Odumbe who was once again relieved off his duties ahead of the international fixture. His younger brother, Collins was elevated to the captain’s position, replacing Shem Obado, who was dropped after failing to play against England’s side MCC two weeks ago. However, the committee named Kanbis’ batsman Dhiren Gondaria who didn’t also play against MCC as the vice captain. The players have vowed not to give out their passports to facilitate their travel until the committee comes out clear on their selection. “If playing against MCC or the players’ current form is the mode of selection, let it be known. If it’s about MCC, then around six players selected including the new vice captain should not be in the team. If it’s about players’ form, then three to four players in that team should be out,” the players added. The uncapped players in the current squad are— Sachin Bhudia, Jasraj Kundi and Gerald Mwendwa. Mwendwa, who is expected to partner Emmanuel Bundi and Nehemiah Odhiambo as a seamer has a knee injury. The players also blamed the Interim Committee of trying hard to get into the squad as officials at the expense of the players. Cricket Kenya staff and players have gone for two months without pay. “This committee is putting a lot of effort in how they will get into the team as officials and are not bothered with the welfare of the players and the staff. They just want to travel with the team,” the players claimed. Last month, acting CK chairman Palli Sehmi traveled with the team to South Africa and now the secretary David Obuya is set to travel as coach.