Nairobi MCAs
yesterday expressed outrage at the plans by the Nema and Warma to
demolish Seefar apartments in Nyayo Highrise ward for allegedly
standing on a riparian reserve. The ward
representatives said the planned demolitions should be stopped or the
tenants and landlords be compensated before the buildings are brought
down. Highrise MCA Kennedy
Oyugi, in whose ward the building is located, demanded an
explanations from the county government on whether the building
stands on riparian land. “The management of
this apartment has provided all approval documents by the county,
Nema, warma and national construction authority. The county should
tell if they approved a building on a dam reserve,” Oyugi said. Oyugi said than more
than 250 home owners risk losing their entire lives's savings if the
authorities demolish the structures without compensation. “It is alleged
that city planner approved the construction of Seefar apartments,”
Oyugi said. He demanded to know
from the planning department if the buildings stand on riparian as
claimed by Nema and Warma. “The innocent
buyers of the houses should not be facing threats if the building was
approved by city planners,” he said. He will get a response in 10
days through planning committee. Last Friday, Nema
and Warma issued a 14-day notice to the occupiers of the 12-storey
apartment to vacate. The authorities said the buildings stand on the bank of Nairobi Dam. The notice was extended to 30 days after a
meeting with the directors of Edermann Property, the developer, and
tenants. Majority leader Abdi
Guyo and his Minority counterpart said the on going demolitions in
the city are scaring away investors and called on the county
government and authorities to stop the exercise. “There is an
amorphous body called Nairobi regenerations that is demolishing
buildings in Nairobi. We don't know under which law this body is
operating,” Guyo said. Minority Chief Whip
Peter Imwatok said that Nema should stop harassing innocent Nairobians and
investors and should instead take the responsibility for approving
the construction of buildings on river banks. “We cannot sit
back and let Nema continue demolishing buildings and running lives of
our people. If they had approved the building, why then should they
wait until residents have occupied them then later give a notice of
demolition?” he posed.