The Kakamega health sector received a boost from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s visit to the county on Saturday. The President launched a CT scan centre at the Kakamega County Referral Hospital. The facility will treat patients suffering from noncommunicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes and heart ailments. Uhuru said he is committed to achieve the Universal Health Coverage. He said since health is devolved, county governments should partner and work closely with the national government to make affordable healthcare a reality. “The two levels of government can work together on staffing, equipment and structural development,” Uhuru said. Deputy President William Ruto said the national government has supplied an addition CT scanner to the hospital. “When we were here earlier, we promised an additional CT scanner and I want to confirm that it is already here,” he said. Scans and X-rays will be relayed in real time to a command centre staffed by specialists at the Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi. Doctors in Kakamega are supposed to get feedback within minutes. If a patient has cancer, heart disease, or liver masses, CT scans can spot them early and help doctors see changes. Kakamega joins four other hospitals fitted with the modern equipment. They are Iten Referral Hospital, Voi Level 5 Hospital, Thika Level 5 Hospital and Narok County Referral Hospital. Uhuru also toured the Sh6.3 billion, 750-bed capacity Kakamega County Teaching and Referral Hospital, which is under construction. The facility, which is being built on 10 acres, will be integrated with the Kakamega County Referral Hospital. It will employ more than 5,000 health professionals. Uhuru praised Governor Wycliffe Oparanya for establishing the facility and urged other governors to follow suit. Yesterday, Oparanya said, “I thought that it was important to involve the national government in this project, because it is going to become a research centre.” The first phase of the referral hospital is expected to become operational in July next year. Oparanya said healthcare services will expand after completion of the level four hospitals in Shibwe, Mumias town and Shinyalu. The national government, under its Universal Health Coverage programme, aims to take specialised medical services to the grassroots. They will save residents the hassle of travelling to Nairobi or flying out of the country for treatment. The plan is mainly to revolutionise diagnosis of ailments, especially non-communicable diseases, such as cancer, at the earliest stage possible. It also calls for a modern system to save patients’ data for easier follow-up and medication Currently, in most hospitals across the country, patients are referred to radiologists with images for interpretation and reporting. Patients then go back to the hospital with results for treatment.