The Standard Chartered Nairobi Marathon set for Sunday is still 7,000 athletes short of their target this year. According to Local Organising Committee (LOC) chairman, Peter Gitau, 18,000 runners had confirmed participation as of yesterday. Gitau, however, exuded confidence that they still hope to reach their target of over 25,000 in the next three days. The event will now start along Processional Way at Uhuru Park and not along Haile Selassie Avenue opposite Railway Club as earlier announced. Full marathon (42km), half marathon (21km) and wheelchair (21km) races will start Uhuru Park’s Processional Way before athletes head to Haile Selassie Avenue towards Uhuru Highway round-about. Gitau explained that the 10km races and Family Run will start along Uhuru Highway, but all the races will end at Uhuru Park’s processional. Organisers have made the change based on logistical reasons. At the same time, organisers of the race also said the registration fee remains at Sh2,000 even after the deadline elapsed and not Sh2,500 as earlier announced. Meanwhile, several city roads will be closed on Sunday to pave way for the marathon. Officer in charge of traffic, Nairobi County, Geoffrey Njogu said preparations for the event were almost complete and asked for cooperation form Nairobi residents on Sunday. The affected roads include Aerodrome Road, Uhuru Highway, Lusaka Road, Langata, Mombasa Road and Enterprise. “The stretch between Chiromo interchange up to Pangani interchange will be one way only. University Way from Uhuru Highway and University roundabout up to Harry Thuku road will also be one way,” he said. Parliament Road, Muindi Mbingu street and Kenyatta Avenue, Upperhill, Lower Hill road and Processional way will also be closed on the day. Njogu, however, announced that there will be diversions to keep business moving. “Motorists coming from Mombasa will be diverted at the junction of Mombasa Road and Enterprise Road to use North Airport road. Others will be into Eastern bypass from City Cabanas and Outering Road respectively. Those coming from Nakuru should use Kipande Road and Globe Cinema interchange through Ojijo underpass,” he noted. Njogu added that motorists heading to the city centre will access Westlands and Kileleshwa using Globe Cinema and Kipande road while those heading to the to Jomo Kenya International Airport, Machakos and Mombasa should use Ngara, Landhies, Jogoo Road and Outering. Bunyala roundabout up to Kenyatta Avenue will be closed at midnight on Saturday with other roads being closed on Saturday at 10pm.