Deputy President William Ruto has promised Harambee Stars Sh50 million should they beat Ethiopia in their return leg Africa Cup of Nations qualifying match in Nairobi on Sunday. He said the government disbursed Sh25 million on Thursday to cater for the national team's allowances. The DP made the announcement on Friday when he visited the team in camp at Safaricom Stadium Kasarani, where the match will be played. "I visited Harambee Stars' training camp at Kasarani Stadium to show solidarity. I delivered a goodwill message from government and Kenyans ahead of the crunch Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Ethiopia. The boys are in high spirits and raring to go," the DP said on Twitter. At the same time, Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has also pledged Sh3 million to the team if it wins the clash. DP Ruto said plans are underway to buy a bus for the national team. Stars are top of Group F with four points, same as second-placed Ethiopia on goal difference. Kenya dislodged Ghana from the top spot following their barren draw with Ethiopia on Wednesday in Addis Ababa. The national team beat Ghana 1-0 in their first encounter in Nairobi on September 8, breaking a 15-year jinx against the Black Stars. Ghana is third with three points, same as Sierra Leone who trail the group with an inferior goal difference. A win for Kenya means Ghana must pick a point against Ethiopia in Addis Ababa to stand a chance at qualifying Should Kenya beat Ethiopia, the win will revive Kenya's hopes of qualifying for the continental tournament for the first time in 14 years. Kenya last participated in AFCON in 2004 in Tunisia but went out at the group stages in the hands of Mali. Cameroon are the hosts of this year's championship. The government has granted free access to Kasarani for football fans on Sunday, forfeiting the possibility of raising Sh4 million in gate collections as was the case during the Ghana game. Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has also said he will provide 150 buses to transport fans who wish to watch the game at the 60,000 capacity stadium. Read: Government grants free entry for Kenya, Ethiopia Sunday match at Kasarani See also: Sonko offers 150 buses for fans to watch Harambee Stars vs Ethiopia match Click here for the latest political news