FBI agents used DNA and a fingerprint to identify the Florida man suspected of sending at least 14 parcel bombs to critics of US President Donald Trump days ahead of congressional elections. Cesar Sayoc has been charged with five federal crimes including threats against former presidents and faces up to 58 years in prison if found guilty, US Attorney General Jeff Sessions said at a news conference. "We will not tolerate such lawlessness, especially political violence," he said. FBI agents arrested Sayoc, 56, in Plantation, Florida and also hauled away a white van plastered with pro-Trump stickers, the slogan "CNN SUCKS" and images of Democratic figures with red crosshairs over their faces. FBI Director Christopher Wray told the news conference that fingerprints on a package sent to Representative Maxine Waters belonged to Sayoc. He also said there could be other packages. Announcing the arrest by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to a cheering audience at the White House, Trump said such "terrorizing acts" were despicable and had no place in the United States. "We must never allow political violence to take root in America - cannot let it happen," Trump said. "And I'm committed to doing everything in my power as president to stop it and to stop it now." Sayoc's home address was listed in public records as an upscale gated apartment complex in the seaside town of Aventura, Florida. According to the records, he is a registered Republican with a lengthy criminal past - including once making a bomb threat - and a history of posting inflammatory broadsides on social media against Trump's political foes. Sayoc was being held at an FBI processing center in Miramar, Florida, CNN said. He was expected to be taken to the Federal Detention Center in downtown Miami and will likely make his first appearance before a judge on Monday, according to former Assistant US Attorney David Weinstein. A federal law enforcement source said charges would likely be brought by federal prosecutors in Manhattan and Sayoc transferred to New York City. Click here for the latest political news