The government has allocated Sh10 billion to connect subcounties with the National Optic Fiber Backbone Infrastructure. ICT Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng said the Nofbi connectivity will be an extension from the counties to the subcounties. The programme will be complete in three to five years, he said. Ochieng, who launched the connectivity in Kisumu on Saturday, said the targetted areas include government institutions, hospitals, schools and police stations. He said connectivity in hospitals will ensure proper healthcare and improve telemedicine. The PS said security will be enhanced as police stations will have the technology to monitor traffic and criminal activities on roads. Ochieng said the government will leverage on ICT to enable the government deliver the Big Four agenda. “ICT is as an enabler of the Big Four as it plays a critical role in Kenya’s socio-economic development,” he said. The PS said the government will partner with ICT players in the private sector to implement the Big Four and develop policies and laws for an enabling environment. He called for public-private partnership for effective implementation. Ochieng said ICT will enable Kenyans to realise a 24-hour economy as part of Vision 2030. “ICT will enable the government provide Kenyans seamless services in addition to giving them an opportunity to access services anytime at their convenience,” Ochieng said. Read: Sh10 billion allocated for optic fibre connection This, he said, is happening on the e-citizen platform that Kenyans are using to pay land rates, renew driving licences among others. Ochieng cited the Presidential Digital Talent Programme (PDTP) as one of the most transformative ICT platform ever conceived in Kenya. Through the programme, the youths are able to sharpen their ICT skills beyond what they learnt at the university, he said. Ochieng praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for being named UN Young People’s Agenda global champion. “Clearly, that is an indication the world has seen what the President has done for the youth. From us, you are all aware of the Presidential Digital Talent Programme, which focuses on the youth,” he said. The PS said by investing in technology, the government is keen on the sustainability of implementing its digital strategy to facilitate online application and payments of key services, which has kicked off. Ochieng said through e-government efforts, the country is moving towards being a smart government, where all payments will be cashless. “This digital transformation is aimed at reducing costs, eliminating corruption and increasing both efficiency and effectiveness,” he said. Click here for the latest political news