This was a question
posed to the Seattle Times daily newspaper by a State of Washington resident.
She was upset that she could never find any real good looking and good tasting
apples in her state, yet it is the largest producer of apples in America. You might be wondering
what apples have to do with legalizing marijuana. But I beg your indulgence. We
shall revisit the apples story shortly. Uruguay was the first
country to fully legalize marijuana for health and recreational use in 2013.
And since then, several countries, including Lesotho, Zimbabwe and South Africa,
have followed suit. Will Kenya be the fourth African state? Kibra MP Kenneth Okoth
hopes to put Kenya on this map. He has asked Parliament to legalize the safe
growing and use of marijuana, fund research and policy development on its
medicinal and industrial value, and consider the expunction of all marijuana-related
criminal records. And public reactions have been as disparate, as chalk and
cheese. Proponents of marijuana
criminalisation proselytise social problems such as addiction, health, violence
and crime as defensible reasons not to legalize it. They rationalise that when
you prohibit a product, it restricts supply, which in turn reduces the
quantities available, thus making it more expensive. And at face value, this is
sound economics. Their logical conclusion is thus, prohibition reduces the
social problems. Hence, the question many Kenyans are asking: Why should we
legalize something that is so evidently harmful? I submit that we are
asking the wrong question. The right question should be: Why not?  To answer this question, let us apply the
economic lens of the iron law of prohibition, as follows: One, higher potency.
History is a good teacher. In 1920, alcohol was made illegal in America but its
consumption continued.  What changed was
the type of alcohol consumed. Lighter drinks such as beer became rare, while
highly potent liquors such as the White Lightning Moonshine, which was known to
cause blindness, became common. However after alcohol was legalized in 1933,
the Moonshine was once again replaced by safer and less potent drinks. Let us now go back to
our apples story to elucidate this potency phenomenon; assuming that one good
apple costs $1, and one bad apple costs $0.5 in Washington. This means one good
apple is the economic equivalent of two bad apples. Now let us add the
transportation cost of $1 per apple, good or bad. Factoring the transportation
cost, the good apple will now cost $2 and the bad one $1.5. Resultantly, the
relative cost of transporting good apples to other states, reduces from the
economic equivalent of two to 1.33 bad apples. When we apply this principle
to marijuana, we get the same effects. For instance, if high potency marijuana
in Uganda is Sh10 per kilo and the low potency variety is Sh5 per kilo, it
means one kilo of high potency marijuana is economically equivalent to two
kilos of the low potency variety. If we add transportation costs to Nairobi of
Sh1,000 per kilo, the high potency will now cost Sh1,010 and the low potency
variety will cost Sh1,005. Given the final minimal price difference, the
criminal risks involved, and the marijuana bulkiness, the drug cartels will be
more incentivised to smuggle in the highest potency variety from the market of
origination, thus causing more harm to its end users in Nairobi. This is called the
Alchian-Allen effect. It states that when the prices of two substitute goods, such
as high and low grades of the same product, are both increased by a fixed
per-unit cost such as transportation or tax, their consumption will always
shift towards the higher grade product. Two, absence of the rule
of law. The social problems cited by the proponents are not directly
attributable to consuming the drug itself. They are bred by the economic and
legal environment in which the marijuana is produced, sold and consumed. For
instance, if someone steals a drug dealer’s supply, the latter cannot report
this to the police. So their only recourse is street violence and revenge,
which only escalates its ferocity. Additionally, since
scarcity in supply causes prices to rise, marijuana consumers resort to petty
or aggressive crimes to fund their habits. Ultimately, this stymies economic
development in these areas, leaving them impoverished. Three, addiction. It is
an indisputable fact that a high drug potency has a more powerful effect on how
addictive a substance is. A study by Andy LaFrate, the President of Charas
Scientific, showed the potency values in marijuana have increased by 30 per
cent, up from 10 per cent three decades ago. This is because producers cross-breed
the drug to increase its potency to fetch higher revenues. And this is what has
increased addiction to marijuana in many places, where it is prohibited. Other reasons why we
should consider legalizing marijuana are as follows: Four, marijuana is less
injurious. It is ironical that we have legalized the production, sale and
consumption of alcohol, which is more harmful than marijuana. A large review
published in The Lancet medical journal in August 2018 by the Global Burden of
Disease Collaborators, found that alcohol use among people aged 15-49 was the
leading health risk factor across the globe, causing 3.8 per cent of all female
deaths and 12.2 per cent of all male deaths, while there were zero documented
deaths from marijuana use alone. Another research
published in 2015 by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the US
found that when adjusting for other factors, having a detectable amount of THC,
which is the main psychoactive ingredient in marijuana, in the blood, did not
increase the risk of causing car accidents. However, having a blood-alcohol
level of at least 0.05 per cent increased that risk by 575 per cent Five, contribution to
GDP. Last year, North America grossed $6.7 billion from the sale of legalized
marijuana, and this is projected to top $24.5 billion by 2021 based on studies
conducted by ArcView Market Research. Another firm, the New Frontier Data,
estimates that the legalization of marijuana could raise roughly $132 billion
in federal tax revenue, and immediately inject around 780,000 jobs in the US
market. This would increase to over 1.1 million jobs into the North America
labour market by 2025. So would it be too far-fetched for us to consider it as
a high value export crop and potential job creator? Six, safer products.
Over the years, many people have sued companies such as tobacco manufacturers
for deaths, injuries or medical expenses related to cigarette smoking. This
causes these manufacturers to be more socially responsible by informing
consumers of the health risks associated with smoking. With legalization,
marijuana traders would be held accountable for informing consumers of the
dangers of using marijuana, and liable for any health hazards attributable to
their product. Seven, medical benefits.
These cannot be gain said. The United States Food and Drug Administration
approved three drugs product that contains the purified substance of
cannabidiol, which is one of the active chemicals in marijuana. This can be
used for the treatment of seizures in Dravet syndrome patients two-year or
older. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine al so
assessed more than 10,000 scientific studies and found that marijuana is
effective in relieving chronic pain. Eight, gateway to
increase number of users. Despite smoking being legal, 95.6 per cent of Kenyans
choose not to smoke. It could, therefore, be extrapolated that legalizing
marijuana will not automatically increase the number of users. Lastly, we do not put on
the light to look at it. We put it on to see what we are unable to see without
it. Would it, therefore, harm to shine a light on this discourse of legalizing
marijuana?  Prohibition
didn’t work in the Garden of Eden. Adam ate the apple – Vicente Fox  Mugwe is a political economist and her views are not the position of any organisation she is affiliated or associated with    