An expert has identified existing gaps that may put Kenyans' data at risk in the two proposed data protection bills still hanging in parliament. The bills are sponsored by Baringo senator Gideon Moi and the Ministry of ICT. Speaking to the Star on phone, Human rights lawyer Mugambi Laibuta said the bills do not cater for individuals right to privacy, the public need for data and commercial use of data. “The ICT Ministry draft falls short in these aspects,” argues Mugambi, “ It is most worrying in terms of form and content, glaring loopholes and clauses that can hardly be operationalized”. He specifically pointed out clause 4 of the Data Bill 2018 which allows any established or ordinarily resident in Kenya to Process data while in Kenya. “The above clause is problematic since the act will only apply to data processors or data controllers while they are in Kenya. These entities should be subject to the law even while outside Kenya in relation to data collected in or from Kenya.” He said the bills are not clear about data processors and data controllers and their operations noting that this will easily make way for foreign firms to collect local data for their own commercial use. Ironically, the same bill seeks to give life to Article 31 of the Constitution 2010 which promotes rights to privacy to all Citizens. Also flouted in the bill is the creation of the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner with powers to investigate, regulate and undertake some judicial functions. Instead, Mugambi proposes that the office should have at least three commissioners, that is, a chairperson and two commissioners or be run by a board with wide representation from diverse stakeholders including security, ICT and legal affairs. Other identified parts of the bills incidence clause 7, that proposes promotion of self-regulation among data controllers and processors, and clauses 15 to 20, which propose registration of all data controllers and processors. The lawyers says that clause seven is null and avoid as the main purposes for the introduction of the law is because Self regulation has failed. On registration of date controllers, he noted that it will stifle protection and enjoyment of other rights including freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the right to information.